
    Donald J. Trump for President, Inc. hosted 'Women for Trump: Empower Hour' featuring Trump 2020 Senior Advisor Katrina Pierson, Behavioral Health, Psychiatry, and Psychology Specialist Dr. Scott Schmidt, and Founder of Cynthia Garrett Ministries, Author, and Host of THE SESSIONS TV series Cynthia Garrett.
Earlier today, President Trump requested billions in aid for schools as a part of a coronavirus relief package to facilitate the return of students to the classroom. The 'Women for Trump' panel voiced the importance of reopening schools to ensure children are receiving quality education and allow hardworking parents, especially single mothers, to provide for their families. While President Trump is prioritizing the well-being of students and parents across the nation, Joe Biden is willing to sacrifice children's education and women's professional success to appease his socialist base.

CLICK HERE TO WATCH
"Joe Biden and the left are playing political games with America's youth forcing them to fall behind in their educational and social development," said Katrina Pierson, Trump 2020 Senior Advisor. "While Biden and the Democrats continue to push for unequal education access for low-income students, President Trump is out front leading the fight for children's educational success and allowing their parents to get back to work."
"Joe Biden and the Democrat party's political game to keep schools closed is outright disturbing," said Dr. Scott Schmidt, Behavioral Health, Psychiatry, and Psychology Specialist. "President Trump understands it is vital for a child's development to attend school, and it is critical we re-elect him this November for the sake of our future generations."
"This is all about power. The far left will do just about anything to push their evil agenda," said Cynthia Garrett, Founder of Cynthia Garrett Ministries, Author, and Host of THE SESSIONS TV series. "As a former single mother, I know firsthand the hardships and struggles women are going through as they attempt to both provide for their family and home-school their children. President Trump is trying to fight for these families when he says we have to listen to parents about opening schools and being involved in choice."
  