
    Yesterday, NARAL Pro-Choice America endorsed Joe Biden for President of the United States. NARAL, along with its 2.5 million fierce women's rights advocates, is committed to mobilizing to protect reproductive and abortion freedoms while fighting against pregnancy discrimination among other inequities. Joe Biden's commitment to protecting and expanding reproductive freedoms and belief in women's rights has earned NARAL's endorsement as they believe he will lead with dignity and vision.
NARAL issued the following press release:
NARAL Pro-Choice America Endorses Vice President Joe Biden for President
Washington, DC — NARAL Pro-Choice America today announced its endorsement of Vice President Joe Biden in his campaign for president of the United States.
"The choice is clear: In his four years in the White House, Donald Trump has exhibited unprecedented cruelty and put lives and freedom on the line time and time again—and this November, we have the opportunity to elect Vice President Joe Biden, a deeply compassionate and thoughtful leader who knows that fighting for reproductive freedom for every body is part and parcel of a just society," said Ilyse Hogue, president of NARAL Pro-Choice America. "NARAL Pro-Choice America and our 2.5 million members are committed to powering Vice President Biden to victory this November and working with his administration to protect and expand access to abortion care and birth control. Joe Biden will stand for freedom over Donald Trump's desire to control women. He will put a stop to Trump's dangerous anti-choice political agenda when so much hangs in the balance. As we continue to face a public health crisis, a national reckoning with entrenched white supremacy, and attacks on reproductive freedom, another four years under Trump would be devastating—to our rights, our families, and our democracy. Vice President Biden will lead our nation forward with dignity and vision at a time when our freedoms are under unprecedented assault."
Joe Biden has outlined his commitment to protecting and expanding reproductive freedom by vowing to work to safeguard Roe v. Wade, only appoint judges who will respect Roe, support the repeal of the racist and discriminatory Hyde Amendment, and use executive action to protect and expand access to abortion and contraception, including reversing Trump's rules gutting reproductive freedom, like the global and domestic gag rules. These commitments are critical given the threat Donald Trump poses to our fundamental rights and everything our nation holds dear.
Over the last four years, Trump and his enablers have worked tirelessly to attack reproductive freedom and deploy disinformation, advancing their radical ideological agenda and undermining our democracy at every turn. Trump was elected thanks in part to a boost from the Radical Right and he has steadfastly worked to pay back his debts by pushing policies to roll back abortion access and stacking the federal judiciary with judges who will carry out their political agenda for years to come—including Justices Brett Kavanaugh and Neil Gorsuch.
With an eye to anti-choice, anti-freedom extremists' rampant use of disinformation about abortion to mislead and rile up voters, NARAL has done groundbreaking work to inoculate against and counter these attacks on reproductive freedom. And with our fundamental rights on the line, NARAL has embarked on its multi-faceted, largest-ever electoral program for the 2020 election to reach 3.6 million voters in key states. NARAL plans to invest $34.7 million toward an integrated organizing, communications, digital, and political program designed to win races up and down the ballot, from statehouses to the White House. Key to NARAL's strategy is reaching, persuading, and mobilizing key voter segments including soft-partisan persuadable women voters, and low-propensity, reproductive freedom voters who are motivated by Trump and Republicans' commitment to ending Roe v. Wade, criminalizing abortion, and punishing women. These critical voting blocs value reproductive freedom and align with the 77% of Americans who support the legal right to abortion.
NARAL Freedom Fund launched an ad campaign in April in the key states of Arizona and Michigan targeting Donald Trump and Mike Pence for their relentless efforts to restrict abortion access, even as we grapple with the COVID-19 pandemic. These ads were tested and shown to be very effective at moving key voting blocs in both states, and are illustrative of how Trump and the Republican Party's extreme overreach on abortion makes them even more vulnerable as these key voting constituencies have been steadily defecting from the Republican Party.
The stakes are high—but NARAL Pro-Choice America was made for this moment. We know that abortion is front and center in 2020: Support for abortion rights is at an all-time high and polling confirms reproductive freedom is a major issue for Democratic and Independent voters.
Standing side-by-side with our 2.5 million members across every state and every congressional district in the country, we are mobilizing to combat the anti-choice disinformation pushed by extremists like Donald Trump and to elect Vice President Joe Biden and more champions for reproductive freedom who will fight to ensure that every body can make their own decisions about their lives and their futures, free from political interference.
  