
    STATEMENT OF ADMINISTRATION POLICY
(House Rules)
(Reps. Young (R) Florida; Kolbe (R) Arizona)
This Statement of Administration Policy provides the Administration's views on the Foreign Operations, Export Financing and Related Programs Appropriations Bill, FY 2002, as approved by the House Committee.
The Administration applauds the Committee's efforts to fund the agencies and programs contained in this bill at the President's request and within the levels agreed to under the budget resolution. The vast majority of the funding in the bill reflects the President's request and his priorities. The Administration is particularly pleased that the Committee provided $100 million for the multilateral Global Fund to Fight HIV/AIDS, Malaria, and Tuberculosis, which is the centerpiece of the President's commitment to the global battle against infectious diseases. The Administration also commends the Committee for its continuing effort to limit earmarks and directives, and to provide the Administration with the flexibility it needs to pursue the President's foreign policy agenda.
While the Administration appreciates the Committee's considerable efforts to fund the President's priorities, the bill provides less than the full funding request in a number of areas. The Administration would appreciate the opportunity to discuss the ramifications of these reductions with the Congress. The Administration supports the Committee's action to provide relief and reconstruction assistance to El Salvador.
With respect to the Andean Regional Initiative, any reductions below the President's request would undermine the effort to develop healthy, licit economies and strong, democratic governments in the Andes. The Andes are the hemisphere's source zone for illegal drug production and the region of the most intensive terrorist activity. The requested levels of support reflect a necessary 50/50 balance between "carrots" of social and economic development and "sticks" of eradication, interdiction, and law enforcement programs. The Administration believes the continued aerial eradication of coca in Columbia is critical, combined with activities in support of alternative development, judicial reform, and promotion of human rights. The Administration would oppose any restrictions on this approach.
The Administration also supports the current version of this bill as it affects family planning. However, the President would veto any legislation that would infringe upon his ability to enforce current Administration policy regarding international family planning assistance.
  