
    President Biden's vision, leadership and the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law have made America the leader in creating an all-electric future, helping lower costs for drivers and creating good-paying, union jobs here at home. Building on last month's proposed standards for a national electric vehicle (EV) charging network, and spurred by the President's Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, the Administration recently highlighted how the President's actions have catalyzed over $700 million in private investments to manufacture chargers in the United States.
To pave the way for a convenient, reliable, and affordable national charging network, the Department of Transportation (DOT) announced this week new expanded availability of EV charging stations near highways. In addition, advanced by the President's Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, DOT announced a proposal for states to set tailpipe emissions reduction targets and unveiled historic funding to electrify ferry service across the country.
President Biden's latest actions received widespread press coverage and praise from Members of Congress, climate and environmental organizations, and more:

Catalyzing Private Investments in EV Charging: Last week, the Biden-Harris Administration highlighted how President Biden's leadership on electric vehicles spurred more than $700 million in private sector investments that will increase our domestic manufacturing capacity to more than 250,000 EV chargers per year, create at least 2,000 good-paying jobs, and make charging more affordable, accessible, and equitable.


Expanding Alternative Fuel Corridors: This week, the Department of Transportation announced 249 new Alternative Fuel Corridors covering all 50 States, DC, and Puerto Rico and 85% of the National Highway System – paving the way to a national EV charging network. These corridors serve as the foundation of the $5 billion National Electric Vehicle Infrastructure (NEVI) program created through the President's Bipartisan Infrastructure Law.


Setting Tailpipe Emissions Reduction Targets: This week, the Department of Transportation proposed a framework for states and municipalities to track and reduce their on-road transportation greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. The proposed rule would establish a national framework for tracking state-by-state progress towards reducing GHG emissions, while also creating a flexible system for states and municipalities to set their own declining GHG targets.


Electrifying Ferries: Today, the Department of Transportation announced historic levels of funding to improve and expand rural and urban ferry service across the country and to speed the adoption of zero emission ferry technologies. Through President Biden's Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, DOT is making available nearly $300 million through three competitive ferry grant programs – including a new Electric or Low-Emitting Pilot program.

Catalyzing Private Investment in EV Charging and Creating Jobs
Reuters: White House says companies investing $700 million to boost EV charger production[Timothy Gardner, 6/28/22]
The White House said on Tuesday that companies are planning to invest more than $700 million to boost U.S. manufacturing capacity for electric vehicle (EV) chargers - actions set to add at least 2,000 jobs and make charging more accessible and affordable. The investments include $450 million earmarked by Volkswagen (VOWG_p.DE) unit Electrify America and more than $250 million by Siemens (SIEGn.DE) to expand its Grand Prairie, Texas and Ponoma, California EV charger plants. FLO, an EV charging network operator, is also investing $3 million in its first U.S. assembly plant in Auburn Hills, Michigan.
Axios: White House announces $700M in private investments for EV charging[Erin Doherty, 6/28/22]
The Biden administration announced Tuesday that a number of companies are planning to invest more than $700 million to boost U.S. manufacturing capacity for electric vehicle charging … The investments are set to create more than 2,000 new jobs and increase domestic capacity to manufacture more than 250,000 new EV chargers each year, the White House said. The big picture: President Biden has set a goal of creating a national network of 500,000 public charging stations, to be in place by 2030.
Zero Emission Transportation Association: "EV charging is integral to transportation electrification, and ZETA's members are at the forefront. We're so proud that @WhiteHouse highlighted the efforts of @SiemensUSA, @ChargePointnet, @FLOevchargingCA, @Tesla, @ABBNorthAmerica, and @VoltaCharging." [Tweet, 7/7/22]
Siemens USA: "Great to be featured by the @WhiteHouse as we support the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law's goal of building a nationwide #EV network in America. @USDOT, @ENERGY, @ginamccarthy46, @MitchLandrieu, @BrianDeeseNEC." [Tweet, 7/7/22]
FLO EV Charging: "The EV charging industry is booming in the US, and we're excited to be a part of it! Learn more about the $700 million in total private investment under the Biden administration, which includes our Michigan facility. https://bit.ly/3QSs4UE #EVchargingDoneRight @GovWhitmer." [Tweet, 6/28/22]
ChargePoint: "ChargePoint and SMTC seek to expand DCFC production and establish a manufacturing line for Level 2 chargers at their Milpitas, CA, facility and create approximately 250 new manufacturing jobs. The expanded facility will be able to produce 10,000 DCFC dispensers and 10,000 Level 2 chargers by 2026." [Tweet, 6/28/22]
Volta Charging: ".@WhiteHouse released its fact sheet today. We're honored to be featured and look forward to expanding the benefits of our Charging For All initiative and serving state DOTs as they finalize equitable #IIJA plans. Check out our commitment." [Tweet, 6/28/22]
Gary Shapiro, CEO, Consumer Technology Association: "This week, American companies announced $700 million in investments to improve EV charger manufacturing and access. Fantastic news for all of us rooting for broader EV adoption!" [Tweet, 7/2/22]
Alex Gruzen, CEO, WiTricity: "Excited to see @WhiteHouse acknowledge @Siemens investment in @ElectrifyAm to accelerate deployment of EV charging infrastructure in the US, even mentioning Siemens recent $25m strategic investment in @WiTricity. We're building the future for EV charging." [Twitter, 6/28/22]
Setting Tailpipe Emissions Reduction Targets in States and Municipalities
Reuters: Biden administration proposes requiring states to set tailpipe emissions targets[David Shepardson, 7/7/22]
The U.S. Transportation Department on Thursday announced it is proposing to require that state transportation agencies set new targets for reducing tailpipe emissions on the national highway system. The department's Federal Highway Administration told Reuters states will have flexibility "to set targets that work for their respective climate change policies and other policy priorities, so long as they are in line with the net-zero goals by 2050 set forth in this rule." Transportation Secretary Pete Buttigieg said the "approach gives states the flexibility they need to set their own emission reduction targets."
Washington Post: DOT proposal would require states to track carbon emissions from driving[Michael Laris, 7/7/22]
The proposed rule would obligate state and local officials to set targets to reduce emissions in the coming years, using 2021 as the baseline. It would add emissions to an existing list of performance measures — originating from transportation bills in 2012 and 2015 — that includes data on safety, congestion, pavement and other items. Transportation is the top U.S. source of greenhouse gas emissions, and federal highway officials under President Biden say the proposed regulation is meant to bring clearer data, increased transparency and better decisions at all levels of government and among the driving public. The rule is intended to track and reduce tailpipe emissions that spur climate change.
The Hill: Biden administration proposes rule requiring states, cities to set transportation climate targets[Zack Budryk, 7/7/22]
A proposed rule released by the Biden administration Thursday would require states and cities to set carbon emission reduction targets for transportation. The draft rule would require state transportation departments and metropolitan planning organizations (MPOs) with National Highway System mileage within their boundaries to both measure their transportation-related emissions and develop reduction targets. This would build on existing regulations that require those institutions to track other forms of air pollutants. Transportation is the single largest source of carbon emissions.
Chair of the Senate Committee on Environment and Public Works, Delaware Senator Tom Carper: "Meeting our climate obligations requires focusing on the greatest source of greenhouse gas emissions in the U.S. economy — the transportation sector. Congress created a national goal of making our roads, highways, and bridges environmentally sustainable a decade ago. At that time, we directed the U.S. Department of Transportation to establish a system for states to measure their performance towards that goal — an authority the department has rightly used to propose the establishment of greenhouse gas performance measures. This proposal will fulfill the original congressional intent of performance management and improve the functioning of our highway programs. Importantly, it will help protect Americans from deadly extreme weather events such as heatwaves, storms, floods, wildfires, and other natural disasters." [Statement, 4/7/22]
Lisa Frank, Executive Director, Environment America's Washington Legislative Office: "As Americans brace ourselves for another hotter-than-usual summer, it's encouraging that the Biden administration is taking aim at our largest source of global warming pollution: transportation. We know what's needed to reduce these emissions. States and municipalities can expand transit and make our streets safe for walking and biking. They can install electric vehicle charging and create incentives for consumers to buy electric vehicles, so that when we do need to drive, we aren't driving climate change. And what's more, states have unprecedented funding from the bipartisan Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act to make these changes to our transportation system." [Statement, 7/7/22]
Lena Moffitt, Chief of Staff, Evergreen Action: "The proposed Greenhouse Gas Performance Management Rule is a strong step to ensure states drive down greenhouse gas pollution from the most climate polluting sector of our economy. We are encouraged to see the Department of Transportation (DOT) taking necessary action in line with Evergreen's recommendations to ensure investments in America's 21st century transportation infrastructure can be deployed in a way that will help deliver on President Biden's climate commitments. Over the next few years, states will have access to over $27 billion in highly flexible IIJA funding that can and must be allocated to support ambitious emission reduction strategies. Governors and state transportation officials have an unprecedented opportunity to set ambitious targets and make climate-smart investments in their transportation future." [Statement, 7/7/22]
Deron Lovaas, Senior Advocate, National Resources Defense Council: "This commonsense proposal would help states and localities move toward a transportation system that's equitable and clean. By measuring emissions and developing plans to cut them, states and localities can determine how to build a resilient and efficient transportation system that will serve us all for decades to come. With the passage of President Biden's bipartisan infrastructure law, Congress gave us a historic opportunity to rebuild and reimagine our transportation system for the future. Implementing this proposed rule would help federal, state, and local agencies' deliver on that promise." [Statement, 7/7/22]
Katherine García, Director of Clean Transportation for All Campaign, Sierra Club: "The Biden administration's greenhouse gas (GHG) performance measure is essential for reducing transportation emissions. We are on the brink of a climate catastrophe. At this pivotal moment every decision states make must ensure that our communities thrive and help us reach our climate goals. States must be held accountable for their transportation plans and effectively leverage existing funding, including from the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act, for sustainable projects." [Statement, 7/7/22]
Expanding Alternative Fuel Corridors to pave way for National EV Charging
Department of Transportation: USDOT Announces All 50 States, DC and Puerto Rico Now Have Alternative Fuel Corridor Designations, Which Will Help Build Out National Electric Vehicle Charging Network[FHWA, 7/6/22]
To support President Biden's commitment to building out a national electric vehicle charging network and making electric vehicles accessible and affordable to more Americans, the U.S. Department of Transportation's Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) today announced the latest round of Alternative Fuel Corridor designations. Under the new National Electric Vehicle Infrastructure (NEVI) Formula Program established by President Biden's Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, funding is directed to designated EV Alternative Fuel Corridors to serve as the backbone for the national electric vehicle charging network.
Daily Energy Insider: Nationwide EV charging network gains new alternative fuel corridors[Kim Riley, 7/7/22]
With the FHWA announcement, Alternative Fuel Corridor designations are now found in all 50 states, as well as Washington, D.C., and Puerto Rico. The designations now cover 190,000 of the 222,000 miles of the National Highway System, according to FHWA. And coupled with funding from President Joe Biden's Infrastructure Law and the private-sector investment spurred by the law, the corridors will hasten the availability of EV charging stations near national highways across the country, the U.S. Department of Transportation agency said.
Electrifying Ferry Service and Connecting Rural Communities
Department of Transportation: Biden Administration Announces Historic Funding to Modernize Ferry Service and Connect Rural Communities[FTA, 7/8/22]
Today, the Biden Administration is announcing historic levels of funding to improve and expand ferry service in communities across the country, as well as accelerate the transition to zero emission transportation. Ferries help people get to work, see friends and family, and explore in communities across the United States. Thanks to President Biden's Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, the Federal Transit Administration is making available nearly $300 million through three competitive grant programs that boost access to rural ferry service, bolster existing and new urban service, and lower emissions across all services by speeding adoption of zero emission ferry technologies.
Alaska Senator Lisa Murkowski: "I grew up in coastal communities that rely on the Alaska Marine Highway System so I've always recognized how critical Alaska's ferry system is to our state. As we wrote this new law to prioritize infrastructure improvements, I put our ferry system right at the top of the list for needs that had to be addressed in Alaska. And then I worked diligently to ensure my colleagues understood the Alaska Marine Highway System is just that – a highway – and not just a mode of transportation, but a lifeline for coastal communities. Thanks to our bipartisan infrastructure law, $300 million is now available to support rural ferry systems and build out electric ferries. It's hard to overstate how important this is for Alaska. This provides a crucial window for the state to modernize our ferry system, and it is a sea change for future generations of cleaner, lower-emission ferries. [Statement, 7/8/22]
  