
    Roland Arnall, of California, to be Ambassador Extraordinary And Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Kingdom of the Netherlands.
Joseph Frank Bianco, of New York, to be United States District Judge for the Eastern District of New York, vice Denis R. Hurley, retired.
Timothy Mark Burgess, of Alaska, to be United States District Judge for the District of Alaska, vice James K. Singleton, Jr., retired.
George M. Gray, of Massachusetts, to be an Assistant Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, vice J. Paul Gilman, resigned.
Christine M. Griffin, of Massachusetts, to be a Member of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission for a term expiring July 1, 2009, vice Paul Steven Miller, term expired.
Emil W. Henry, Jr., of New York, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Treasury, vice Wayne Abernathy.
Kathryn Higgins, of South Dakota, to be a Member of the National Transportation Safety Board for a term expiring December 31, 2009, vice Carol Jones Carmody, resigned.
William E. Kovacic, of Virginia, to be a Federal Trade Commissioner for a term of seven years from September 26, 2004, vice Orson Swindle, resigned.
Barry F. Lowenkron, of Virginia, to be Assistant Secretary of State for Democracy, Human Rights, and Labor, vice Lorne W. Craner, resigned.
Harry Sandlin Mattice, Jr., of Tennessee, to be United States District Judge for the Eastern District of Tennessee, vice R. Allan Edgar, retiring.
William Paul McCormick, of Oregon, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to New Zealand, and to serve concurrently and without additional compensation as Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Samoa.
Edward McGaffigan, Jr., of Virginia, to be a Member of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission for the term of five years expiring June 30, 2010. (Reappointment)
James F. X. O'Gara, of Pennsylvania, to be Deputy Director for Supply Reduction, Office of National Drug Control Policy, vice Barry D. Crane.
John J. Young, Jr., of Virginia, to be Director of Defense Research and Engineering, vice Ronald M. Sega.
  