
    NOMINATIONS SENT TO THE SENATE:
John R. Bass, of New York, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan.
Samuel Dale Brownback, of the District of Columbia, to be Ambassador at Large for International Religious Freedom, vice David Nathan Saperstein.
Ann Marie Buerkle, of New York, to be Chairman of the Consumer Product Safety Commission, vice Elliot F. Kaye.
Ann Marie Buerkle, of New York, to be a Commissioner of the Consumer Product Safety Commission for a term a of seven years from October 27, 2018. (Reappointment)
Michael James Dodman, of New York, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Islamic Republic of Mauritania.
J. Steven Dowd, of Florida, to be United States Director of the African Development Bank for a term of five years, vice Walter Crawford Jones, resigned.
Halsey B. Frank, of Maine, to be United States Attorney for the District of Maine for the term of four years, vice Thomas Edward Delahanty II, resigned.
Peter Hoekstra, of Michigan, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Kingdom of the Netherlands.
Jeffrey B. Jensen, of Missouri, to be United States Attorney for the Eastern District of Missouri for the term of four years, vice Richard G. Callahan, resigned.
Mark A. Klaassen, of Wyoming, to be United States Attorney for the District of Wyoming for the term of four years, vice Christopher A. Crofts, resigned.
Daniel J. Kritenbrink, of Virginia, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Socialist Republic of Vietnam.
C. J. Mahoney, of Kansas, to be a Deputy United States Trade Representative (Investment, Services, Labor, Environment, Africa, China, and the Western Hemisphere), with the rank of Ambassador, vice Miriam E. Sapiro, resigned.
Byung J. Pak, of Georgia, to be United States Attorney for the Northern District of Georgia for the term of four years, vice Sally Quillian Yates, resigned.
Brian D. Schroder, of Alaska, to be United States Attorney for the District of Alaska for the term of four years, vice Karen Louise Loeffler, resigned.
Justin Hicks Siberell, of Maryland, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Kingdom of Bahrain.
Michele Jeanne Sison, of Maryland, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Career Minister, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Haiti.
  