
    Memorandum for the Heads of Executive Departments and Agencies
Subject: Expanding Family-Friendly Work Arrangements in the Executive Branch
In order to recruit and retain a Federal work force that will provide the highest quality of service to the American people, the executive branch must implement flexible work arrangements to create a "family-friendly" workplace. Broad use of flexible work arrangements to enable Federal employees to better balance their work and family responsibilities can increase employee effectiveness and job satisfaction, while decreasing turnover rates and absenteeism. I therefore adopt the National Performance Review's recommendation that a more family-friendly workplace be created by expanding opportunities for Federal workers to participate in flexible work arrangements, consistent with the mission of the executive branch to serve the public.
The head of each executive department or agency (hereafter collectively "agency" or "agencies") is hereby directed to establish a program to encourage and support the expansion of flexible family-friendly work arrangements, including: job sharing; career part-time employment; alternative work schedules; telecommuting and satellite work locations. Such a program shall include:
(1) identifying agency positions that are suitable for flexible work arrangements;
(2) adopting appropriate policies to increase the opportunities for employees in suitable positions to participate in such flexible work arrangements;
(3) providing appropriate training and support necessary to implement flexible work arrangements; and
(4) identifying barriers to implementing this directive and providing recommendations for addressing such barriers to the President's Management Council.
I direct the Director of the Office of Personnel Management ("OPM") and the Administrator of General Services ("GSA") to take all necessary steps to support and encourage the expanded implementation of flexible work arrangements. The OPM and GSA shall work in concert to promptly review and revise regulations that are barriers to such work arrangements and develop legislative proposals, as needed, to achieve the goals of this directive. The OPM and GSA also shall assist agencies, as requested, to implement this directive.
The President's Management Council, in conjunction with the Office of Management and Budget, shall ensure that any guidance necessary to implement the actions set forth in this directive is provided.
Independent agencies are requested to adhere to this directive to the extent permitted by law.
This directive is for the internal management of the executive branch and is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable by a party against the United States, its agencies or instrumentalities, its officers or employees, or any other person.
The Director of the Office of Management and Budget is authorized and directed to publish this directive in theFederal Register.
William J. Clinton
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 3:34 p.m., July 13, 1994]
  