
    Aboard Air Force One
En Route Detroit, Michigan
9:15 A.M. EDT
MS. BUCHAN: Let me tell you a little bit about the President's day . I have some week ahead information at the end for you. The President taped his radio address before he departed this morning. It will be on homeland security. He'll talk about the work of the 9/11 Commission. He received his briefings, intelligence and FBI briefings, before he left.
When he arrives in Detroit , the Freedom Corps greeter will be Eric Rasmussen, who is the 300th Freedom Corps greeter that the President has met since he began meeting volunteers across the country. And Eric is a volunteer who provides tax assistance to people in low-income communities. The President will then go to the National Urban League conference, where he will first meet with the Board of Trustees briefly, make remarks to them.
Then he'll go to his ranch in Texas , where he will then participate in a Victory event at a neighboring ranch. He'll remain, as you know, at his ranch for several days.
Q: The Board of Trustees -- is that open or closed, or just a few minutes?
MS. BUCHAN: Yes, it will be just for -- you know, briefly meeting with them prior to his remarks. And in his remarks, just to give you a heads up, the remarks are actually -- technically it's a political speech, just so that you're aware of that, in terms -- he'll talk about a number of policy issues, of course. The President will talk about his message of hope, opportunity and prosperity for people of all walks of life. He'll talk about his policies to advance those, including his policies that are pro-entrepreneur, pro-growth policies. He'll talk about his education policies and his commitment to ensure that every child can learn. He'll also talk about policies that help people in urban areas around the country, that are helping to decrease the use of drugs and to reduce crime in cities.
Q: Faith-based stuff?
MS. BUCHAN: He'll also talk about his faith-based and compassion agenda, including programs, for example, that help children of prisoners. So he'll talk about those. And then he'll also spend a portion of the speech talking to them about how he believes that his agenda is worthy of their consideration.
Questions? No questions?
Q: A couple of days ago Scott said that -- in regard to the Sandy Berger matter, the White House Counsel's Office had been contacted about it months ago. When was the President told about this investigation?
MS. BUCHAN: Well, I think what Scott has said, and what I'll say again, is that as a part of the investigation, members of our Counsel's Office were contacted. It is an ongoing investigation, and we're just going to refer calls to that to the people who are conducting the investigation.
Q: Does that mean that nobody outside the few people inside the Counsel's Office were told about this?
MS. BUCHAN: Well, Pete, I'm aware that there were people in the Counsel's Office that were contacted, again, as I said, as a part of the investigation. And I'll leave it at that. I don't have information beyond that, and it is an ongoing investigation, so I think you need to talk to the people who are conducting the investigation.
Q: We're not trying to be argumentative, but are you saying the President was not told?
MS. BUCHAN: I'm saying I'm aware that there were people in the Counsel's Office who were contacted as a part of the investigation.
Q: When were they contacted, Claire?
MS. BUCHAN: As Scott has said, they were contacted a while ago, quite a while ago. I don't have a specific date for you.
Q: Was it this year or last year?
MS. BUCHAN: I don't have a specific date, but it was a while ago.
Okay, let me just give you, briefly then, the week ahead . As you know, the President will be at his ranch until Thursday. He'll return to the White House on Thursday. On Friday, he will go to Missouri , Michigan and Ohio .
Q: What was the second one?
MS. BUCHAN: Michigan and Ohio . He'll give remarks in Springfield , Missouri , remarks in Grand Rapids , Michigan . He will give remarks at something called the Athletes of the International Children's Games and Cultural Festival in Cleveland . If you'd like a little information, I can tell you that that -- that Cleveland is the first city to host the International Children's Games, and there will be 3,000 athletes, ages 12 to 15, from 150 cities in 50 countries who will be participating in the games.
He will then attend a Victory event in Kirtland Hills , Ohio . He'll, on Saturday, participate in a bus tour, where he will give remarks in Canton , Ohio , at a rally; he will participate in a Steubenville , Ohio rally, and a Pittsburgh , Pennsylvania , rally, and then he will return to the White House.
Q: And where does he overnight?
MS. BUCHAN: In Ohio .
Q: In what city?
MS. BUCHAN: Cleveland .
Q: Does he return to the White House from Crawford and then go on this --
MS. BUCHAN: Yes.
Q: He does.
MS. BUCHAN: He comes back to the White House on Thursday and then heads out Friday morning.
Q: Do you know when on Thursday?
MS. BUCHAN: I'm sorry?
Q: Do you know when on Thursday, or no?
MS. BUCHAN: We'll get the specific times for you. I would imagine it would be in the afternoon.
MR. DECKARD: Late afternoon, actually.
Q: When time does the press leave from Crawford on Thursday? What time is Bush going back?
MS. BUCHAN: Probably early afternoon, if he leaves mid-afternoon. But we'll get the specific times for you.
Q: Thank you.
END 9:21 A.M. EDT
  