
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate four individuals to serve in his administration.
The President intends to nominate Gaddi H. Vasquez to be Director of the Peace Corps. He is currently Division Vice President of Public Affairs of the Southern California Edison Company. From 1987 to 1995, he was County Supervisor of Orange County, California, and from 1985 to 1987, he served in the California Governors Office, first as the Hispanic Liaison and then as Chief Deputy Appointments Secretary. Vasquez was appointed to the Commission on White House Fellowships and the United States Quincentennary Commission by former President Bush, and he has received multiple appointments in the State of California by Governors Davis, Wilson and Deukmejian. A former police officer in Riverside, California, he continues to serve as a City of Orange Reserve Police Officer and serves on numerous community boards including the Latino Childrens Fund, the St. Joseph Hospital Foundation and the National Association of Latino Elected and Appointed Officials. He has been named one of the 100 Most Influential Hispanics in the United States six times by Hispanic Business Magazine and was given the Award for Outstanding Leadership from the California State Assembly. He is a graduate of the University of Redlands and has completed Executive Studies programs at both Stanford University and Harvard University.
The President intends to nominate Randall S. Kroszner to be a member of the Council of Economic Advisors. He is presently a Professor of Economics at the University of Chicago Graduate School of Business where he has taught since 1990. From 1987 to 1989 he served as a Junior Staff Economist on the Council of Economic Advisors. He served as a visiting scholar in the research department of the International Monetary Fund in 1993, 1994, 1995 and 2000, and he has served as a visiting scholar at Federal Reserve Banks in Chicago, New York, Minneapolis, Kansas City and St. Louis. Kroszner is a graduate of Brown University and received a Masters degree and Ph.D. from Harvard University.
The President intends to nominate Kimberly Terese Nelson to be Assistant Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency for Environmental Information. She has served at the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection since 1999, first as the Director of Program Integration and Effectiveness and then as Chief Information Officer. From 1987 to 1995, she was at the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Resources as Special Assistant to the Secretary, Special Assistant to the Deputy Secretary for Administration and Special Assistant to the Deputy Secretary for Field Operations. She is a graduate of Shippensburg University of Pennsylvania and received a Masters degree from the University of Pennsylvania.
The President intends to nominate Harold Daub to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Social Security Advisory Board and upon confirmation will be designated Chairman. Daub served as Mayor of Omaha, Nebraska, from 1995 to 2000 and was elected to the United States Congress in 1980, and then reelected in 1982, 1984 and 1986. In 1990 he was appointed to the National Advisory Commission on Public Service. He was elected to the Board of Directors of the National League of Cities and continues to serve on the Advisory Committee, and he was elected to serve on the Advisory Board of the U.S. Conference of Mayors. A former member of the U.S. Army, he is a graduate of Washington University in St. Louis, Missouri, and received his law degree from the University of Nebraska.
  