
    Bloomberg: "Hundreds Of Cheering Poles Greeted Romney When He Arrived At The Old Town Hall In Gdansk..." "Hundreds of cheering Poles greeted Romney when he arrived at the old town hall in Gdansk, a port town that was the birthplace of the Polish Solidarity movement. 'This is like a rally in the U.S.,' said Romney's wife, Ann, as she waved to the crowd." (Lisa Lerer and Jonathan Ferzige, "Palestinian Outcry Overshadows Polish Praise On Romney Trip," Bloomberg, 7/30/12)
CBS News: "Mitt Romney Got A Warm Reception In The Polish City Of Gdansk." "Mitt Romney got a warm reception in the Polish city of Gdansk. This is the final leg of his three-country overseas tour." (Lindsey Tugman, "Romney Stops In Poland On Last Leg Of Foreign Tour," CBS News, 7/30/12)
ABC News: "Greeted Upon Arriving For A Meeting With Polish Prime Minister Donald Tusk By Hundreds Of People Lining The Narrow Streets Here." "Mitt and Ann Romney were greeted upon arriving for a meeting with Polish Prime Minister Donald Tusk by hundreds of people lining the narrow streets here. ...  As Romney and his wife Ann arrived at Gdansk's Old Town Hall, the candidate shoot hands with well-wishers, one of whom told him, 'I want you to be president of the United States.'" ("Former Polish President Lech Walesa Endorses Mitt Romney," ABC News, 7/30/12)
Politico: "A Crowd Of Hundreds, Cheering, Waving And Holding Up Cameras To Snap His Photograph." "[Romney] arrived in the center of Gdansk to find a crowd of hundreds, cheering, waving and holding up cameras to snap his photograph." (Jonathan Martin, "Walesa Proclaims Solidarity With Mitt," Politico, 7/30/12)
McClatchy Headline: "Mitt Romney Cheered In Poland, Endorsed By Walesa" (McClatchy News Service, 7/30/12)
AFP: "White House Hopeful Mitt Romney Received A Warm Welcome From Poland's Anti-Communist Freedom Icon Lech Walesa..." "White House hopeful Mitt Romney received a warm welcome from Poland's anti-communist freedom icon Lech Walesa on Monday as he made his first venture beyond the old Iron Curtain. On the final leg of a three-stop tour designed to burnish his foreign policy credentials, the Republican contender chose to visit a country which has notably testy relations with Russia and is now a pillar of NATO and the EU." (Bernard Osser and Mary Sibierski, "Romney In Poland For Trip Down Cold War Memory Lane," AFP, 7/30/12)
National Journal: "[Walesa] Expressed Hopes That Mitt Romney Would Win The Presidential Contest..." "Lech Walesa, the Nobel Prize winner and former Polish president, on Monday expressed hopes that Mitt Romney would win the presidential contest during a meeting between the two men on Romney's first overseas trip as the likely Republican nominee." (Sarah Huisenga, "Lech Walesa Wishes Romney 'Success'," National Journal, 7/30/12)
CNN Headline: "In Poland, Romney Gains Support Of Iconic Solidarity Leader" (Kevin Liptak, "In Poland, Romney Gains Support Of Iconic Solidarity Leader," CNN, 7/30/12)
NBC News: "Mitt Romney Received A Warm Welcome ... Winning Strong Praise From One Of Poland's Most Influential Political Figures." "Mitt Romney received a warm welcome here on Monday during the final stop of his foreign tour, winning strong praise from one of Poland's most influential political figures that seemed to border on an endorsement." (Garrett Haake, "Polish Icon Walesa Wishes Romney 'Success' During Visit," NBC News, 7/30/12)
  