
    WASHINGTON, DC – President Obama today nominated the following individuals as United States Attorneys:
•      Daniel G. Bogden, District of Nevada
•      Deborah K. Gilg, District of Nebraska
•      Timothy J. Heaphy, Western District of Virginia
•      Peter F. Neronha, District of Rhode Island
"These fine men and women have demonstrated the extensive knowledge of the law and deep commitment to public service Americans deserve from their United States Attorneys," President Obama said. "It is with the utmost confidence in their ability and integrity that I nominate them for the weighty task of pursuing justice on behalf of the American people."
Daniel G. Bogden, Nominee for U.S. Attorney for the District of Nevada
Daniel Bogden is currently a partner in the Nevada law firm of McDonald Carano Wilson. Bogden previously served as United States Attorney for the District of Nevada from 2001 to 2007. From 1998 to 2001, Bogden served as the Reno Division Chief in the United States Attorney's Office. From 1990 to 1998, he was an Assistant United States Attorney and member of the Organized Crime Drug Enforcement Task Force. From 1987 to 1990, Bogden was a Deputy District Attorney with the Washoe County District Attorney's Office. Bogden graduated from Ashland University and the University of Toledo's College of Law. He served in the United States Air Force on active duty from 1982 to 1987 and remained on inactive reserve until his honorable discharge in March 1995.
Deborah K. Gilg, Nominee for U.S. Attorney for the District of Nebraska
Deborah Gilg is the President of Gilg, Kruger & Troia P.C. L.L.O. in Omaha, Nebraska, where she has worked since 2005. Gilg has also been the Saunders County, Nebraska Attorney since 2003 and previously served as the County Attorney for both Arthur and Keith County. She began her legal career as a partner in the Beal, Jensen, Cecava and Gilg Law Firm. Gilg graduated from the University of Nebraska-Lincoln and the University of Nebraska College of Law.
Timothy J. Heaphy, Nominee for U.S. Attorney for the Western District of Virginia
Timothy Heaphy is a partner at McGuire Woods, LLP, where he has worked since 2006. From 1994 to 2003, Heaphy was an Assistant United States Attorney for the District of Columbia. He then served as Deputy Managing Assistant United States Attorney for the Western District of Virginia until 2005. Prior to that, Heaphy worked as a litigation associate for Morrison & Foerster in San Francisco, California and a law clerk for Justice John A. Terry of the District of Columbia Court of Appeals. He graduated from the University of Virginia and the University of Virginia Law School.
Peter F. Neronha, Nominee for U.S. Attorney for the District of Rhode Island
Peter Neronha has been an Assistant United States Attorney in the District of Rhode Island for the past seven years. Prior to that, Neronha served in the Rhode Island Department of the Attorney General as Special Assistant Attorney General from 1996 to 2001 and Assistant Attorney General from 2001 to 2002. Following graduation from law school, he worked as an associate at Goodwin Proctor, LLP in Boston, Massachusetts. Neronha graduated from Boston College and Boston College Law School.
  