
    
"I Think This Is One Of The Biggest Things That's Happened So Far In This General Election." -- Mark Halperin (CNN's "Anderson Cooper 360 Degrees," 7/3/08) 
Barack Obama "Struggled" To Explain His Iraq Position, Called Do-Over Press Conference:
ABC News: "Barack Obama Struggled Thursday In Two Separate News Conferences To Explain His Plan To Withdraw U.S. Troops From Iraq." "Whatever happened to 'absolute clarity'? Barack Obama struggled Thursday in two separate news conferences to explain his plan to withdraw U.S. troops from Iraq." (Teddy Davis, Sunlen Miller, and Gregory Wallace, "'We're Gonna Try This Again,'" ABC News' "The Notes Sneak Peek," 7/3/08) 


    ABC News: "There's Been Lots Of Speculation This Week About Whether Sen. Barack Obama Has An Iraq Problem. He Does Now." (Rick Klein, "Obama's Iraq Quagmire," ABC News' "Political Punch" Blog, http://blogs.abcnews.com , Posted 7/3/08)
  
ABC's John Berman: "He Felt The Need To Hold Two News Conferences To Clarify His Position." (ABC's "Good Morning America," 7/4/08)


The Associated Press: Barack Obama "Struggled Thursday" To Explain His Iraq Position. "Democrat Barack Obama struggled Thursday to explain how his upcoming trip to Iraq might refine, but not basically alter, his promise to quickly remove U.S. combat troops from the war." (Jennifer Loven, "Obama Says Iraq Trip Could Refine His Policy," The Associated Press, 7/4/08)

The Associated Press: Barack Obama Offered A "Messy Series Of Comments" On Iraq. "It was Obama's messy series of comments Thursday, coming after weeks in which Republicans had been goading him to change his withdrawal policy in light of reduced violence, that put an unfortunate spotlight on his quandary." (Jennifer Loven, "Obama's Centrist Emphasis Gives GOP Ammo," The Associated Press, 7/5/08)


CBS: Barack Obama Forced To Call "A Hastily Organized Press Conference." "Barack Obama called a hastily organized press conference to clarify an earlier statement where he suggested he'd 'refine' his Iraq policy after he visits Iraq later this summer." (Maria Gavrilovic, "Obama Clarifies Iraq Remarks," CBS News, 7/3/08) 
CNN's Anderson Cooper: Obama "Scrambling To Explain His Position On Iraq." CNN'S ANDERSON COOPER: "We begin though with Barack Obama scrambling to explain his position on Iraq. This morning, he seemed to open the door to changing his mind on a 16-month timetable for pulling troops out of Iraq." (CNN's "Anderson Cooper 360 Degrees," 7/3/08) 
CNN's Jessica Yellin: Barack Obama "Found Himself In An Odd Spot Holding A Do-Over Press Conference." CNN'S JESSICA YELLIN: "Barack Obama faced a firestorm about whether he's backing off the central pledge of his campaign, to withdraw combat troops from Iraq within 16 months of taking office. The concern became so intense, he found himself in an odd spot holding a do-over press conference." (CNN's "Newsroom," 7/4/08) 
Fox News: Barack Obama Was "Obviously Annoyed With Reporters." "Obviously annoyed with reports that he'd hedged his position on troop withdrawals from Iraq after he told reporters that he would 'continue to refine' his policies after his upcoming visit to Iraq, the campaign held a second avail to attempt to clarify his views on the matter." (Bonney Kapp, "Obama On Iraq Take Two," Fox News, 7/3/08) 
Los Angeles Times: BarackObama "Struggled" To Explain His Position On Iraq In A Press Conference. "Barack Obama struggled Thursday to explain his plan to end the war in Iraq, calling a rare do-over news conference to insist that he was not softening his campaign pledge to withdraw all combat troops within 16 months of becoming president." (Peter Nicholas, "Republicans Seize On Obama's Comments On Iraq," Los Angeles Times, 7/4/08) 
NBC's Lester Holt: "Obama Suddenly Founding Himself Working Hard To Explain" His Iraq Position. NBC'S LESTER HOLT: "It is the eve of the Independence Day holiday, and while most Americans were settling in for a leisurely long weekend, late this afternoon Barack Obama suddenly found himself working hard to explain something he said earlier today about ending the war in Iraq." (NBC's "Nightly News," 7/3/08) 
New York Daily News: Barack Obama "Struggled To Explain" His Iraq Position. "Barack Obama said Thursday he may 'refine' his 16-month timetable for getting out of Iraq -- and then struggled to explain what he meant after Republicans branded him a flip-flopper." (Michael McAuliff, "GOP Pounces As Barack Obama Says Iraq Exit Plan Could Be 'Refined,'" New York Daily News, 7/3/08) 
Reuters: Barack Obama "Forced To call Reporters Back For A Second News Conference." "Obama was forced to call reporters back for a second news conference in Fargo, North Dakota, after he initially left open the possibility of revising his 16-month timetable for pulling U.S. combat forces from Iraq." (John Whitesides, "Obama Wades Into Controversy With Iraq Comments," Reuters, 7/3/08 ) 
Barack Obama "Opening The Door To Altering His Iraq Policy": 
The Associated Press: "Democrat Barack Obama Is Opening The Door To Altering His Iraq Policy." (Jennifer Loven, "Obama Opens Door To Altering Iraq Policy," The Associated Press, 7/3/08) 
The Associated Press: Barack Obama "Acknowledged That The 16-Month Timeline Could Indeed Slip If Removing Troops Risked Their Safety Or Iraqi Stability." "After his remark at a news conference about refining policy exploded onto the political scene, he called a do-over four hours later to 'try this again.' He said the refining wouldn't be related to his promise to remove combat forces within 16 months of taking office, but to the number of troops needed to train Iraqis and fight al-Qaida. But then he acknowledged that the 16-month timeline could indeed slip if removing troops risked their safety or Iraqi stability." (Jennifer Loven, "Obama's Centrist Emphasis Gives GOP Ammo," The Associated Press, 7/5/08) 
CBS' Dean Reynolds: "Obama Sounded Surprisingly Willing To Change His Position On Iraq." CBS' DEAN REYNOLDS: "In North Dakota today, Barack Obama sounded surprisingly willing to change his position on Iraq. ... But the statement about refining his position paled next to the applause-winning declarations that carried him through the primaries." (CBS' "Evening News," 7/3/08) 
CNN's Jessica Yellin: "When Pressed, He Refused To Commit To That 16-Month Time Frame, Insisting Any Good Commander-In-Chief Adjusts." (CNN's "Newsroom," 7/4/08) 
Fox News' Major Garrett: "Speaking Of The Battlefield, Obama Is Creating New Room To Maneuver On The Question Of Withdrawing U.S. Combat Forces From Iraq." (Fox News' "Special Report With Brit Hume," 7/4/08) 
Los Angeles Times: Barack Obama "Has Carefully Hedged" On Iraq. "In the past, Obama has stressed his plan to begin a withdrawal immediately and complete it within 16 months. But he has carefully hedged, leaving the option of taking more time if needed." (Peter Nicholas, "Republicans Seize On Obama's Comments On Iraq," Los Angeles Times, 7/4/08)

Los Angeles Times: BarackObama "Seemed Just Now To Signal A Softened Position On His Time Line For Withdrawing Troops From Iraq." "Our colleague Peter Nicholas, trailing along after Barack Obama in Fargo, North Dakota, reports that Obama seemed just now to signal a softened position on his time line for withdrawing troops from Iraq." (Scott Martelle, "Is Barack Obama Softening His Iraq Withdrawal Timeline?" Los Angeles Times' "Top Of The Ticket" Blog, http://latimesblogs.latimes.com , Posted 7/3/08)



NBC's Lee Cowan: "The Campaign Is Quick To Point Out That It Would Be Irresponsible For The Senator Not To At Least Leave Open The Possibility Of Learning Something On His Trip To Iraq That Might Change His Positions. Otherwise, As One Adviser Put It, 'What's The Point Of Making That Trip In The First Place?'" ( NBC's "Nightly News," 7/3/08) 
The New York Post: Barack Obama "Left The Door Open" To Changing His Iraq Policies. "Barack Obama, who ran hard during the Democratic primaries on an anti-Iraq-war message, yesterday left the door open to 'refining' his 16-month troop-withdrawal plan as he prepares for a Mideast trip." (Maggie Haberman, "Obama Pulls About-Face," The New York Post, 7/4/08) 
The New York Times: "There Have Been Increasing Signs Of Debate Among Democrats -- And Seemingly Among Some Obama Advisers -- About What To Do In Iraq." (Michael Cooper and Jeff Zeleny, "Obama Fuels Pullout Debate With Remarks," The New York Times, 7/4/08) 
The Washington Post: Barack Obama "Left Open The Possibility" That He Would Slow His 16-Month Withdrawal Plan. "Sen. Barack Obama left open the possibility of slowing his promised, 16-month withdrawal of combat forces from Iraq, saying he would consult with military commanders on an upcoming trip to the region to ensure a withdrawal would keep troops safe and Iraq stable." (Jonathan Weisman, "Obama Softens On Iraq Withdrawal Timeline," The Washington Post's "The Trail" Blog, http://blog.washingtonpost.com , Posted 7/3/08)


    The Washington Post: "Today's Comments From Obama Were The Most Extended On The Issue, And They Leaned Hard Toward Flexibility, Even As He Said His Position Has Not Shifted." (Jonathan Weisman, "Obama Softens On Iraq Withdrawal Timeline," The Washington Post's "The Trail" Blog, http://blog.washingtonpost.com , Posted 7/3/08)
  


The Washington Post's CharlesKrauthammer: Barack Obama Will Change His Iraq Position Very Soon. "Two weeks ago, I predicted that by Election Day Obama will have erased all meaningful differences with McCain on withdrawal from Iraq. I underestimated Obama's cynicism. He will make the move much sooner. He will use his upcoming Iraq trip to finally acknowledge the remarkable improvements on the ground and to formally abandon his primary season commitment to a fixed 16-month timetable for removal of all combat troops." (Charles Krauthammer, Op-Ed, "A Man of Seasonal Principles," The Washington Post, 7/4/08)

Krauthammer: Barack Obama's "Shift Has Already Begun." "The shift has already begun. Yesterday, he said that his 'original position' on withdrawal has always been that 'we've got to make sure that our troops are safe and that Iraq is stable.' And that 'when I go to Iraq ... I'll have more information and will continue to refine my policies.'" (Charles Krauthammer, Op-Ed, "A Man of Seasonal Principles," The Washington Post, 7/4/08)
Krauthammer: Even Though Obama Has Yet To Go Back To Iraq, "The Flip Is Almost Complete." "He hasn't even gone to Iraq and the flip is almost complete. All that's left to say is that the 16-month time frame remains his goal but that he will, of course, take into account the situation on the ground and the recommendation of his generals in deciding whether the withdrawal is to occur later or even sooner." (Charles Krauthammer, Op-Ed, "A Man of Seasonal Principles," The Washington Post, 7/4/08)


Barack Obama's Openness To Refining His Position At Odds With Previous Commitments:
ABC News: Barack Obama's "Openness To Adjust His 16-Month Withdrawal Plan Was Somewhat At Odds" With Previous Comments. "Obama's openness to adjust his 16-month withdrawal plan was somewhat at odds with the stance he took during a recent ABC News debate. At the time, Obama seemed to stand by his campaign manager's unambiguous pledge to have troops out of Iraq in 16 months 'at the most.'" (Teddy Davis, Sunlen Miller, and Gregory Wallace, "'We're Gonna Try This Again,'" ABC News' "The Notes Sneak Peek," 7/3/08) 
The Politico: Barack Obama "Backed Off His Firm Promise To Withdraw Combat Forces From Iraq Immediately." "Sen. Barack Obama (D-Ill.) on Thursday backed off his firm promise to withdraw combat forces from Iraq immediately and instead said he could 'refine' his plan after his trip to Baghdad later this month." (Mike Allen, "Obama To 'Refine' Iraq Plan," The Politico, 7/3/08) 
Barack Obama Playing Politics With Iraq Position:
ABC News: Barack Obama Will Be "Unlikely To Give A Direct, Yes-Or-No Answer" When Asked Where He Stands On His Iraq Plan. "There will be only one relevant question now out of Obama's trip now: Do you stand by your plan? Obama is unlikely to give a direct, yes-or-no answer -- and that's where Sen. John McCain and his allies can and will pounce." (Rick Klein, "Obama's Iraq Quagmire," ABC News' "Political Punch" Blog, http://blogs.abcnews.com , Posted 7/3/08) 
Fox News: Barack Obama In The General Election "Has Been Talking Less About Troop Withdrawal." "But now as Obama enters the general election and hopes to compete for a wider range of voters, he has been talking less about troop withdrawal - something he explained was because he'd been spending a lot of time talking about the economy." (Bonney Kapp, "Obama Keeps Iraq Options Open," Fox News, 7/3/08) 
The New York Times: Barack Obama "Recently Spoken Less About Withdrawal." "With violence ebbing in Iraq, however, he has recently spoken less about withdrawal and has increasingly emphasized the failure to achieve political reconciliation in that country." (Michael Cooper and Jeff Zeleny, "Obama Fuels Pullout Debate With Remarks," The New York Times, 7/4/08) 
The Wall Street Journal: Lately, Barack Obama Has Left Out His Pledge To Withdraw Troops Within 16 Months From His Public Speeches. "According to the Obama campaign Website Sen. Obama would move one to two combat brigades a month home from Iraq and have "all [U.S.] combat brigades out of Iraq within 16 months." But lately he has left out the phrase '16 months' entirely." (Amy Chozick, "Obama Defines His Position On Iraq War," The Wall Street Journal, 7/4/08) 
In The Headlines:
ABC News: "Obama's Iraq Quagmire" (Rick Klein, "Obama's Iraq Quagmire," ABC News "Political Punch" Blog, 7/3/08) 
The Associated Press: "Obama Opens Door To Altering Iraq Policy" (Jennifer Loven, "Obama Opens Door To Altering Iraq Policy," The Associated Press, 7/3/08) 
Chicago Tribune: "Obama May 'Refine' Iraq Policy" (Katie Fretland, "Obama May 'Refine' Iraq Policy," Chicago Tribune's "The Swamp" Blog, 7/3/08) 
Fox News: "Obama Keeps Iraq Options Open" (Bonney Kapp, "Obama Keeps Iraq Options Open," Fox News' "Fox Embedded" Blog, 7/3/08) 
The Hill: "Obama Says Slower Iraq Withdrawal Possible" (Ian Swanson, "Obama Says Slower Iraq Withdrawal Possible," The Hill, 7/3/08) 
Los Angeles Times: "Is Barack Obama Softening His Iraq Withdrawal Timeline?" (Scott Martelle, "Is Barack Obama Softening His Iraq Withdrawal Timeline?" Los Angeles Times' "Top Of The Ticket" Blog, 7/3/08) 
The Politico: "Obama Rewrites Iraq Plan"
(Mike Allen, "Obama Rewrites Iraq Plan," The Politico, 7/3/08) 
New York Post: "Obama Pulls About-Face" (Maggie Haberman, "Obama Pulls About-Face," New York Post, 7/4/08) 
The New York Times: "Obama Fuels Pullout Debate With Remarks"
(Michael Cooper and Jeff Zeleny, "Obama Fuels Pullout Debate With Remarks," The New York Times, 7/4/08) 
The New York Times: "Obama: Open To 'Refine' Iraq Withdrawal Timeline"
(Jeff Zeleny, "Obama: Open to 'Refine' Iraq Withdrawal Timeline," The New York Times' "The Caucus" Blog, 7/3/08) 
Reuters: "Obama Says He Might 'Refine' His Iraq Position"(John Whitesides, "Obama Says He Might 'Refine' His Iraq Position," Reuters, 7/3/08) 
Time: "Obama Plans To 'Refine' Iraq Plan" (Mark Halperin, "Obama Plans to 'Refine' Iraq Plan," Time's "The Page" Blog, 7/3/08) 
The Wall Street Journal: "Obama's Iraq Plan May Be Refined" (Amy Chozick, "Obama's Iraq Plan May Be Refined," The Wall Street Journal's "Washington Wire" Blog, 7/3/08) 
The Washington Post: "Obama May Consider Slowing Iraq Withdrawal" (Jonathan Weisman, "Obama May Consider Slowing Iraq Withdrawal," The Washington Post, 7/4/08) 
The Washington Post: "Obama Softens On Iraq Withdrawal Timeline" (Jonathan Weisman, "Obama Softens on Iraq Withdrawal Timeline," The Washington Post's "The Trail" Blog, 7/3/08) 
The Weekly Standard: "The Mother Of All Flip-Flops" (John McCormack, "The Mother of All Flip-Flops," The Weekly Standard's "The Blog," 7/3/08)
  