
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

Whereas by an act of Congress entitled "An act to admit the States of North Carolina, South Carolina, Louisiana, Georgia, Alabama, and Florida to representation in Congress," passed the 25th day of June, 1868, it is declared that it is made the duty of the President, within ten days after receiving official information of the ratification by the legislature of either of said States of a proposed amendment to the Constitution known as article fourteen, to issue a proclamation announcing that fact; and
Whereas on the 18th day of July, 1868, a letter was received by the President, which letter, being addressed to the President, bears date of July 15, 1868, and was transmitted by and under the name of R. K. Scott, who therein writes himself governor of South Carolina, in which letter was inclosed and received at the same time by the President a paper purporting to be a resolution of the senate and house of representatives of the general assembly of the State of South Carolina ratifying the said proposed amendment, and also purporting to have passed the two said houses. respectively, on the 7th and 9th of July, 1868, and to have been approved by the said R. K. Scott, as governor of said State, on the 15th of July, 1868, which circumstances are attested by the signatures of D. T. Corbin, as president pro tempore of the senate, and of F. J. Moses, jr., as speaker of the house of representatives of said State, and of the said R. K. Scott, as governor:
Now, therefore, be it known that I, Andrew Johnson, President of the United States of America, in compliance with and execution of the act of Congress aforesaid, do issue this my proclamation, announcing the fact of the ratification of the said amendment by the legislature of the State of South Carolina in the manner hereinbefore set forth.
In testimony whereof I have signed these presents with my hand and have caused the seal of the United States to be hereto affixed.
Done at the city of Washington, this 18th day of July, A. D. 1868, and of the Independence of the United States of America the ninety-third.
ANDREW JOHNSON.
By the President:
WILLIAM H. SEWARD,
Secretary of State.
  