
    Pool Reports by Gerren Keith Gaynor, theGrio 



Sent:
Reports:




July 13, 202210:53

VP Supplemental Pool #1
Good morning!
I am your pooler for Vice President Harris' remarks for the American Rescue Plan Workforce Summit. It's a sunny and humid day in the nation's capital after a pretty nasty storm yesterday evening.
Pool is tested and gathered inside the South Court Auditorium, where there are a number of reserved seats for invited guests, so not the greatest view for your pooler.
The event is scheduled to kick off at 11 AM ET. It will be live-streamed at: www.whitehouse.gov/live.
On background from a White House Official:
On Wednesday, the White House will announce that over $40Billion in American Rescue Plan funds have been committed to strengthening and expanding our workforce.
White House officials will highlight top American Rescue Plan workforce best practices from Governors, Mayors, and County Leaders across the country, and call on more government officials and private sector leaders to expand investments in our workforce.Vice President Kamala Harris will deliver remarks kicking off a half-day White House Summit. Since passage of the law, states, localities, community colleges, and local organizations have leveraged American Rescue Plan resources to deliver training, expand career paths, encourage more Registered Apprenticeships, provide retention and hiring bonuses in critical industries, and power efforts to help underserved Americans and those who face barriers to employment secure good jobs.
These investments in the workforce – along with the American Rescue Plan's direct payroll support that has saved or restored jobs across a broad set of industries – have contributed to a record 9 Million jobs added since President Biden took office in the fastest and strongest jobs recovery in American history.
Speakers and speaking orderGene Sperling, Senior Advisor to the PresidentSecretary Martin Walsh, U.S. Department of LaborVice President Kamala Harris
Notable participants include Pennsylvania Governor Tom Wolf, North Carolina Governor Roy Cooper, Louisville, KY Mayor Greg Fischer, DC Mayor Muriel Bowser, and several county-level officials, including LA County Supervisor Holly Mitchell.
FULL FACTSHEET: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/07/12/fact-sheet-white-house-announces-over-40-billion-in-american-rescue-plan-investments-in-our-workforce-with-more-coming/



July 13, 202211:15

VP Supplemental Pool #2
We just got a 2-minute warning.



July 13, 202211:23

VP Supplemental Pool #3
ARP Coordinator and senior advisor Gene Sperling came to the podium at 11:15 AM. He ended his remarks at 11:22 AM. He praised VP Harris for hosting the summit and her leadership, including chairing White House Labor Task Force.
He then introduced Labor Secretary Marty Walsh. After his remarks, he will welcome the VP.



July 13, 202211:28

VP Supplemental Pool #4
VP Harris walked up to the podium at 11:27 AM. She is wearing a rich blue pant suit.
Again, this is being live streamed so feel free to see full remarks there.



July 13, 202211:30

VP Supplemental Pool #5
VP Harris addressed the CPI report:
"It is important to note that these numbers do not fully reflect the recent drop in gas prices. average natural gas prices have fallen every day for nearly 30 days. since mid June, prices are down 40 cents a gallon. fighting inflation is one of our administration's top economic priorities, which is why we have taken action to lower the cost of living for Americans, millions of Americans."
"President Joe Biden and I are always fighting to make sure that working families can get ahead and stay ahead. And that is why we continue to call on Congress to pass legislation to lower the price of prescription drugs of healthcare And the other every day essentials that will meet the needs of American families."



July 13, 202211:37

VP Supplemental Pool #6
More on VP's remarks:
"Today it is an honor to gather with a group of leaders for putting AARP dollars to work in communities across our nation.
"We must continue our work together to build a nation where every worker is treated with dignity, where every community is safe and healthy, and where every child can reach their God given potential. because every person in our nation no matter where they start, deserves the opportunity to succeed and to thrive. That is the future, we are all fighting for. And that is the future. Our administration is fighting for a future that we will all build together. God bless you and God bless the United States of America."
Remarks concluded at 11:35 AM.



July 13, 202211:42

VP Supplemental Pool #7
Pool exited South Auditorium at 11:39 AM. Lid called at 11:41 AM.
Take care!




  