
    Dear Mr. Speaker: (Dear Mr. President:)
Consistent with subsection 204(b) of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act, 50 U.S.C. 1703(b) (IEEPA), I hereby report that I have issued an Executive Order (the "order") in which, in view of United Nations Security Council Resolutions 1521 of December 22, 2003, and 1532 of March 12, 2004, I declared a national emergency with respect to the threat to the foreign policy of the United States constituted by certain actions, policies, and circumstances with respect to Liberia. These actions, policies, and circumstances include the undermining of Liberia's transition to democracy and the orderly development of its political, administrative, and economic institutions and resources by former Liberian President Charles Taylor and other persons, in particular their unlawful depletion of Liberian resources and their removal from Liberia and secreting of Liberian funds and property. These actions, policies, and circumstances also include the lack of universal implementation throughout Liberia of the Comprehensive Peace Agreement signed on August 18, 2003, and the related ceasefire. Finally, these actions, policies, and circumstances include the link between the illicit trade in round logs and timber products and the proliferation of and trafficking in illegal arms, which perpetuate the Liberian conflict and fuel and exacerbate other conflicts throughout West Africa.
To address this threat, I ordered that, except to the extent provided in section 203(b)(1), (3), and (4) of IEEPA (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)(1), (3), and (4)), or regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to the order, all property and interests in property of the persons listed in the annex to the order or any person determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, to meet the criteria set forth in section 1(a)(ii) of the order, are blocked.
I further ordered that, except to the extent provided in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to the order, the direct or indirect importation into the United States of any round log or timber product originating in Liberia is prohibited.
I have enclosed a copy of the order, which became effective at 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on July 23, 2004.
Sincerely,
GEORGE W. BUSH
  