
    Pool Reports by Francesca Chambers, USA Today 



Sent:
Reports:




July 10, 2023 09:44 BST

Travel Pool Report #1: Winfield House
Good morning from London!
The pool has been swept and is awaiting President Biden at Winfield House, the residence of the U.S. ambassador to the U.K.
President Biden's first meeting today is a bilateral with the UK prime minister at 10:45 am local time at No. 10. Later, he will meet King Charles III at Windsor Castle.
10:45 AM THE PRESIDENT meets with Prime Minister Rishi Sunak of the United Kingdom 10 Downing Street, London, United Kingdom Out-of-Town Pool Spray
I'll be sharing photos from the president's visit here: https://www.dropbox.com/sh/3f45fewzm9poxnn/AACGzHDGMjsTXSgh05H7Lc8ha?dl=0
Please reach out with any questions, and I will do my best to answer them. 


July 10, 2023 10:26 BST

Travel Pool Report #2: Headed to Number 10
President Biden departed Winfield House at 10:18 am local time for his meeting with PM Sunak at 10 Downing Street.
Traffic was ground to a halt during the movement. Some onlookers stood on the sidewalks and snapped photos.
It is Biden's first visit to No. 10 as president, White House National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan said yesterday during the AF1 gaggle. It is the president's sixth visit with PM Sunak since the latter became prime minister.
Per the White House, traveling with the President via motorcade en route to 10 Downing Street, London, United Kingdom:
Jane Hartley, Ambassador of the United States to the United Kingdom Secretary Antony Blinken, Department of State Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs Jen O'Malley Dillon, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations Karine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press Secretary Ben LaBolt, Assistant to the President & Director of Communications Stefanie Feldman, Assistant to the President & Staff Secretary Ryan Montoya, Assistant to the President & Director of Scheduling & Advance Ambassador Rufus Gifford, Chief of Protocol of the United States Ashley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office Operations Amanda Sloat, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for Europe Carlyn Reichel, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director or Speechwriting & Strategic Initiatives Emilie Simons, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Press Secretary Ariana Berengaut, Senior Advisor to the National Security Advisor 


July 10, 2023 10:45 BST

Travel Pool Report #3: No. 10
At 10:38 am President Biden arrived at 10 Downing Street. He exited the beast l, which was parked right in front, an PM Sunak walked out and shook hands and greeted him. They were too far away for pool to hear their conversation. The president did not respond to shouted questions about Ukraine. Pool is holding in a courtyard while it awaits the next spray.
Per the WH: Greeting the President upon arrival at 10 Downing Street, London, United Kingdom:
Prime Minister Rishi Sunak of the United Kingdom 


July 10, 2023 11:03 BST

Travel Pool Report #4: garden spray
President Biden and Prime Minister Sunak met in a courtyard outside No. 10 after their initial greeting. Pool saw them speak for about 2 minutes.
Sunak noted that it was Biden's first visit as president and told him, "We're very privileged and fortunate to have you here."
POTUS said "it's good to be back" and joked "we've only been meeting once a month" since Sunak had been PM.
They didn't respond to shouted questions.
At the top of the spray, there was an issue with credentials, with only some of the U.S. pool being given the required pass by the British government on their way in. Several members of the U.S. pool and U.S. government were not admitted to the garden ahead of the spray, despite being with the U.S. delegation on the grounds.
Pool spotted Secretary Blinken on a balcony during spray.
More TK 


July 10, 2023 11:04 BST

Travel Pool Report #5: Meeting background from the White House
The President is meeting with Prime Minister Rishi Sunak of the United Kingdom.
U.S. Manifest  The President T.H. Antony Blinken, Secretary of State  T.H. Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs T.H. Jane Hartley, Ambassador of the United States to the United Kingdom T.H. Amanda Sloat, Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for Europe, National Security Council
U.K. Manifest T.H. Rishi Sunak, Prime Minister of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland T.R.H. James Cleverly, Secretary of State for Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Affairs Sir Tim Barrow GCMG LVO MBE, National Security Advisor Mr. John Bew, Foreign Affairs Advisor to the Prime Minister Ms. Fiona McIlwham, Private Secretary to the Prime Minister 


July 10, 2023 11:30 BST

Travel Pool Report #6: more from the spray -- update on spray/POTUS on the move
At roughly 11:25 am local time, POTUS' motorcade left No. 10. Pool did not see the president enter the Beast. Many onlookers this time along his motorcade route and pool spotted one, large Trump sign early in to the journey.
Quick and important update following the spray: Just one member of the U.S. pool was kept out of the courtyard. The rest of the individuals who were not admitted were White House staffers.
As for the remarks, Sunak and Biden were seated across from one another in wicker chairs, looking very relaxed. Both men wore dark blue suits, paired with white shirts and medium blue ties, and black shoes with black socks.
Sunak, as previously mentioned, noted that Biden had been there before, although not as president until today.
"Great for us to carry on our conversations, which we were having just a month or so ago, it feels like, in the White House, where we signed the Atlantic Declaration."
Sunak said they would continue discussing the economic partnership and noted they head to Vilnius for the NATO Summit next.
Biden recalled all the times they had met previously. A loud bell interrupted his remarks and made the rest of them, beyond the top, very, very hard to hear.
The president did not answer questions at the end of the short spray, including whether he will come back for the AI summit.
As pool was lead out of the spray, President Biden and Prime Minister Sunak picked up and began drinking from mugs that contained a dark liquid, presumably tea. Pooler is endeavoring to confirm. 


July 10, 2023 11:35 BST

Travel Pool Report #7: additional POTUS quote
Thank you to TV pooler Justin Gomez for the following additional POTUS quote from the garden spray at No. 10 with the untimely bell:
"We've got a lot to talk about. I think we're doing well. We're moving along in a way that's positive. But our relationship is rock solid," POTUS said. 


July 10, 2023 11:48 BST

Travel Pool Report #8: back at Winfield House
The president's motorcade arrived back at Winfield House at 11:38 am local time.
Pool will not see POTUS lift in M1 to Windsor; we have already boarded a tan Osprey ahead of his departure.
Per the White House, traveling with the President aboard Marine One en route to Windsor Castle Landing Zone, Windsor, United Kingdom:
Secretary Antony Blinken, Department of State Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs Jen O'Malley Dillon, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations 


July 10, 2023 12:19 BST

Travel Pool Report #9: M1 lift to Windsor
The president lifted in M1 at 12:17 pm local time en route to Windsor Castle, where he will meet King Charles III.
Out the window of the pool Osprey, we could see members of the president's staff and POTUS board the helicopter before the lift.
Next, according to WH trip guidance:
The President will participate in a Ceremonial Arrival and Inspection of the Honor Guard with His Majesty King Charles III at Windsor Castle.
The President will meet with His Majesty King Charles III.
The President will participate in a climate engagement with His Majesty King Charles III and philanthropists and investors.
The President will travel to Vilnius, Lithuania. 


July 10, 2023 12:36 BST

Travel Pool Report #10: Windsor Castle
Ospreys landed at 12:30 pm near Windsor. Pool rushed into vans and was driven up to the castle.
More TK 


July 10, 2023 12:58 BST

Travel Pool Report #11: Honor Guard
King Charles walked out of Windsor to a white tent with red carpeting and gold trim at 12:38 pm. (Two tall plants are inside the tent, as well as two bushes with purple flowers on the outside of the tent.)
President Biden arrived in a black SUV sporting American and Union Jack flags at 12:45 pm after members of the royal band had already played several songs. He waved at the pool as he pulled in.
President Biden appeared to tap and shake the king's elbow, in addition to a traditional hand shake, as they greeted one another.
The band played the Star Spangled Banner after POTUS arrived. He put his hand on his heart. (Earlier it played God Save the Queen.)
Charles and Biden then did a lap, inspecting the Honor Guard, before returning to the tent. As they went back into the tent, Biden put his hand on Charles' back.
Four sets of honor guard members were stationed in front if the tent. Each of the sets appeared to have 24 or so honor guard members in it. Each guard member is wearing a black hat with red jackets and black slack with red stripes.
The Honor Guard and the band departed at 11:54 pm, and the president and Charles remained in the tent for a minute or so. They entered Windsor together immediately after.
Correction: Pool traveled in Chinooks not Ospreys to Windsor. (Which are much louder, pooler notes.) 


July 10, 2023 13:01 BST

Travel Report #12: WH background on Windsor
From the WH:
Greeting the President upon arrival at Windsor Castle Landing Zone, Windsor, United Kingdom:
Lord-Lieutenant James Puxley, The Lord-Lieutenant of the Royal County of Berkshire Lieutenant General Philip Jones, Constable and Governor of Windsor Castle Vice Admiral Sir Tony Johnstone-Burt, Master of the Household
The President is participating in a Ceremonial Arrival and Inspection of the Guard of Honor with His Majesty King Charles III at Windsor Castle. 


July 10, 2023 13:14 BST

Travel Pool Report #13: Inside Windsor
A restricted (smaller) pool was brought into Windsor immediately after the Honor Guard inspection event. It is waiting for President Biden and King Charles in the Green Drawing Room of the castle.
Outside, earlier, pool spotted John Kerry, the US climate envoy.
Pool passed through a reception on the way in to Windsor, but no one was immediately recognizable.
Also: God Save the King played earlier -- the national anthem of the UK -- thanks for the note and apologies. 


July 10, 2023 13:34 BST

Travel Pool Report #14: more WH background -- and tea
Ahead of the president's arrival, Kerry and others entered the Green Drawing Room for the climate engagement. They are drinking English Breakfast Tea while they await the president.
Per the White House:
The President is meeting with His Majesty King Charles III.
U.S. Manifest
The President T.H. Antony Blinken, Secretary of State T.H. Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs T.H. Jane Hartley, Ambassador of the United States to the United Kingdom
U.K. Manifest
His Majesty King Charles III T.R.H. Sir Clive Alderton, Principal Private Secretary to The King and Queen H.E. Karen Pierce DCMG, Ambassador of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland to the United States Mr. Chris Fitzgerald, Deputy Private Secretary to The King 


July 10, 2023 13:39 BST

Travel Pool Report #15: business leaders participating
Per the WH: The President is participating in a climate engagement with His Majesty King Charles III and philanthropists and investors.
Attendees
John Kerry, Special Presidential Envoy for Climate Grant Shapps MP, Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero Brian Moynihan, Chair of Board and CEO, Bank of America Shriti Vadera, Chair, Prudential Plc Mark Carney, Chair, Brookfield Asset Management and Co- Chair, Glasglow Finance Alliance for Net Zero (GFANZ) Mary Shapiro, Glasglow Financial Network for Net-Zero Noel Quinn, Group Chief Executive, Hongkong and Shanghai Corporation Limited (HSBC) Jennifer Jordan Saifi, CEO, Sustainable Markets Initiative Dr. Andy Kuper, Founder and CEO, Leapfrog Investments Larry Fink, Chairman and CEO, BlackRock Alison Rose, CEO, NatWest Group Isabella da Costa Mendes, Co-CEO, ImpactA Victoria Miles, Co-CEO, ImpactA Jordan Neal, CEO, Lloyd's of London Nat Simons, Co-Founder and Co-Director, Sea Change Foundation Mark Gallogly, Co-Founder, Three Cairns Group Tony Elumelu, Chairman, United Bank of Africa Fady Jameel, Vice Chairman, Community Jameel Lukas Walton, Builders Vision Dr. Sultan Al Jaber, COP28 United Arab Emirates (UAE) President Designate Andrew Forrest, Chairman, Fortescue Metals Group Henrik du Toit, CEO, Ninety One Rich Lesser, Global Chair, Boston Consulting Group Colm Holmes, CEO, Allianz Holdings Bill Winters, CEO, Standard Chartered
Speaking Program
Grant Shapps MP, Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero John Kerry, Special Presidential Envoy for Climate The President His Majesty King Charles III 


July 10, 2023 13:49 BST

Travel Report #16: King Charles and POTUS
King Charles and President Biden entered the Green Drawing Room at 1:40pm.
Grant Shapps MP, Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero, began the speaking program.
He said that they are "enormously pleased" in the UK that the Inflation Reduction Act advanced clean energy goals.
Kerry followed, saying that scientists say they are "terrified" and the world is "uncharted territory."
He thanked Charles for holding the event and for his leadership on the issue.
Biden and the king were greeting individual business leaders and shaking their hands when pool was led out of the room at 1:47 pm.
Will send more from the remarks soon, but neither the president nor the king spoke while press was in the room. 


July 10, 2023 14:26 BST

Travel Pool Report #17: Windsor lift
After the pool left the drawing room it went back to the vans and then to the Chinooks.
President Biden arrived at 2:15 pm for departure in M1. He waved and entered the helo. It took off a few minutes later at 2:24 pm.
Per the White House, traveling with the President aboard Marine One en route to London Stansted Airport, Stansted, United Kingdom:
Secretary Antony Blinken, Department of State Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs Jen O'Malley Dillon, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations 


July 10, 2023 14:59 BST

Travel Pool Report #18: Stansted
Chinooks touched down at 2:50 pm at Stansted. From here, POTUS will take AF1 to Vilnius for the NATO Summit.
Pool is currently awaiting POTUS' arrival in M1 on the tarmac.
Per the WH:
Greeting the President upon arrival at London Stansted Airport, London, United Kingdom:
Jane Hartley, Ambassador of the United States to the United Kingdom 


July 10, 2023 15:10 BST

Travel Pool #19: POTUS arrival/takeoff at Stansted
President Biden landed and stepped out of M1 at 3:04 pm.
He walked straight to US Amb. Hartley, far out of earshot of the press, and boarded AF1 a minute later. He waved at the top of the short staircase.
Hartley stood on the tarmac and waved at press.
Wheels up soon for Vilnius. 


July 10, 2023 15:18 BST

Travel Pool Report #20: travelers
At 3:16 PM, AF1 was rolling down the tarmac for Vilnius.
Per the WH:
Traveling with the President aboard Air Force One en route to Vilnius International Airport, Vilnius, Lithuania:
Secretary Antony Blinken, Department of State Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs Jen O'Malley Dillon, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations Karine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press Secretary Ben LaBolt, Assistant to the President & Director of Communications Stefanie Feldman, Assistant to the President & Staff Secretary Ryan Montoya, Assistant to the President & Director of Scheduling & Advance Ambassador Rufus Gifford, Chief of Protocol of the United States Colin Kahl, Under Secretary of Defense for Policy Curtis Ried, Deputy Assistant to the President & NSC Chief of Staff & Executive Secretary Ashley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office Operations Amanda Sloat, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for Europe Carlyn Reichel, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for Speechwriting & Strategic Initiatives Travis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director Ariana Berengaut, Senior Advisor to the National Security Advisor Adam Hodge, NSC Acting Senior Director for Press 


July 10, 2023 19:21 EEST

Travel Pool Report #21: wheels down
AF1 was wheels down at about 7:14 pm local time in Lithuania.
Per the WH:
Greeting the President upon arrival at Vilnius International Airport, Vilnius, Lithuania:
President Gitanas Naus?da of the Republic of Lithuania Audra Plepyt?, Ambassador of the Republic of Lithuania to the United States Asta Skaisgiryte, Chief Foreign Policy Advisor Ambassador Robert Gilchrist, Ambassador of the United States to the Republic of Lithuania Petras Zapolskas, Lithuanian Chief of Protocol 


July 10, 2023 19:43 EEST

Travel Pool Report #22: POTUS greeting embassy staff
Welcome to the NATO Summit.
President Biden deplaned AF1 at 7:25 pm local time in Vilnius. Lithuanian President Gitanas Naus?da and a military guard in olive green uniforms carrying guns greeted him. The guard lined a red carpet as POTUS walked off the plane.
After Biden deplaned he walked over to a metal barricade and began greeting embassy staff.
Editorial pool was still near AF1 when Biden told TV that "it went well."
Speaking briefly with reporters on the tarmac while POTUS was still aboard the plane, Jake Sullivan said Biden and King Charles talked climate, China and shared stories from the past at Windsor Castle.
Blinken followed Biden off the plane at a distance and the joined him at the meet and greet. Blinken picked up and held a baby as he worked his way down the barricade.
Per the WH:
The President is participating in a greet with embassy personnel and their family.
Greeting the President upon arrival at Vilnius International Airport, Vilnius, Lithuania:
President Gitanas Naus?da of the Republic of Lithuania Audra Plepyt?, Ambassador of the Republic of Lithuania to the United States Asta Skaisgiryte, Chief Foreign Policy Advisor Ambassador Robert Gilchrist, Ambassador of the United States to the Republic of Lithuania Petras Zapolskas, Lithuanian Chief of Protocol 


July 10, 2023 20:02 EEST

Travel Pool Report #23: airport departure
President Biden was still greeting embassy staff when pool loaded into vans.
At 7:56 pm the motorcade departed the Vilnius airport.
South Korean, Turkish and Canadian planes were spotted on the tarmac, as well as a smaller baby blue U.S. plane resembling Air Force One.
Images of the president's arrival showed him walking arm and arm and looking very chummy with Lithuania's president as they made their way down the red carpet. H/T to Doug Mills and a huge thanks to Geoff Earle and the entire White House pool for their help today. 


July 10, 2023 20:20 EEST

Travel Pool Report #24: POTUS drop off
Motorcade arrived at POTUS RON at 8:09 PM near the Lithuanian presidential place.
Large crowds of onlookers standing behind barricades as the motorcade drew close to its destination.
The motorcade passed a billboard en route that said: "Ukraine deserves NATO membership now."
POTUS is expected to remain at the RON for the evening so that's a wrap for us.
Cheers! 


July 10, 2023 20:31 EEST

Travel Pool Report #25: Lid
The White House has officially called a lid. Enjoy your evening or day, depending on where you are! 



  