
    ARLINGTON, VA -- U.S. Senator John McCain's presidential campaign today issued the following statement from McCain Campaign Manager Rick Davis in response to Barack Obama's comments in Springfield, Rolla and Union, Missouri, yesterday:
"Barack Obama has played the race card, and he played it from the bottom of the deck. It's divisive, negative, shameful and wrong."
Barack Obama's Comments Yesterday In Springfield, Rolla And Union, Missouri:
Barack Obama In Springfield, Missouri: "So nobody really thinks that Bush or McCain have a real answer for the challenges we face, so what they're going to try to do is make you scared of me. You know, he's not patriotic enough. He's got a funny name. You know, he doesn't look like all those other Presidents on those dollar bills, you know. He's risky. That's essentially the argument they're making." (Barack Obama, Remarks, Springfield, MO, 7/30/08)
Watch: http://blip.tv/file/1132434
Barack Obama In Rolla, Missouri: "That's not the debate we're getting out of John McCain right now. He's spending an awful lot of time talking about me. You notice that? I haven't seen an ad yet where he talks about what he's gonna do. And the reason is because those folks know they don't have any good answers, they know they've had their turn over the last eight years and made a mess of things. They know that you're not real happy with them. And so the only way they figure they're going to win this election is if they make you scared of me. So what they're saying is, 'Well, we know we're not very good but you can't risk electing Obama. You know, he's new, he doesn't look like the other presidents on the currency. He's got a funny name.' I mean, that's basically the argument -- he's too risky." (Barack Obama, Remarks, Rolla, MO, 7/30/08)
Watch: http://blip.tv/file/1132429
Barack Obama In Union, Missouri: "John McCain and the Republicans, they don't have any new ideas, that's why they're spending all their time talking about me. I mean, you haven't heard a positive thing out of that campaign in a month. All they do is try to run me down, and you know, you know this in your own life, right? If somebody doesn't have anything nice to say about anybody, that means they've got some problems of their own. So they know they've got no new ideas, they know they're dredging up all the stale, old stuff they've been peddling for the last eight, ten years. But since they don't have any new ideas the only strategy they've got in this election is to try to scare you about me. They're going to try to say that I'm a risky guy, they're going to try to say, 'Well, you know, he's got a funny name, and he doesn't look like all the presidents on the dollar bills and the five dollar bills,' and they're going to send out nasty e -mails. And the latest one they got me in an ad with Paris Hilton. You know, never met the woman. But, you know, what they're going to try to argue is that somehow I'm too risky. You know, basically what they're saying to you is we know we didn't do a real good job, but he's too risky." (Barack Obama, Remarks, Union, MO, 7/30/08)
Watch: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qBonEy32nV4
  