
    Pool Reports by Linda Feldmann, The Christian Science Monitor 



Sent:
Reports:




July 19, 202110:53

In-town pool report 1 - good morning 
Happy Monday from the White House, nice summer day, 81 degrees. I'm print pooler today, looking ahead to POTUS remarks on the economy (11:30 on the sked) followed by Oval Office pool spray with King Abdullah and Queen Rania of Jordan (2:15).
Economic remarks will be streamed on whitehouse.gov/live. I will report color from the room - the State Dining Room.



July 19, 202111:40

In-town pool report 2 - 2-minute warning 
For Potus remarks on economy.



July 19, 202111:44

in-town pool report 3 - econ remarks start 
Expanded Pool - about 20 reporters, not including cameras and still photogs- was escorted into State Dining Room at 11:28am. Reporters seated to POTUS's left in three rows of seats. Cameras/stills facing POTUS.
POTUS entered the room at 11:43 began speaking a few seconds later. Abe Lincoln portrait behind him.
See remarks live at WhiteHouse.gov/live



July 19, 202112:05

In-town pool report 4 - Remarks conclude, took q's 
Potus finished remarks, read from a TelePrompTer, at 11:58. He spoke of record growth, record job creation.
Took Questions from press until 12:01, when he walked out
Q's re Facebook misinformation, inflation, budget bill and pathway to citizenship.
"There's nobody expecting unchecked inflation on the way"
Re China and cyber hacking- why no sanctions:
"Investigation is not finished"
Q as he walked out: should olympics go forward.
"They are"
From prepared remarks:
"We've brought this economy back from the brink," President Biden said.
Talked up expanded child tax credit, encouraged vaccination, talked up the Build Back Better plan.
Re inflation: price increases were expected and are expected to be temporary, he said.
Refereed to today's economy as a "boom"
Potus wearing dark suit, white shirt, blue striped tie.



July 19, 202112:12

In-town pool report 5 - WH briefing will now be at 1 pm 
Briefing now at 1 pm, per press office.



July 19, 202113:03

In-town pool report 6 - 2 minute warning on briefing
[APP Note: No additional text was included in this report.]



July 19, 202113:07

In-town pool report 7- briefing begins 
At 1:06 pm



July 19, 202114:00

In town pool report 8 - briefing ends 
At 1:50 pm
Pool gathering soon for spray with POTUS and the King and Queen of Jordan.



July 19, 202114:44

In town pool report 9- POTUS pool spray/King of Jordan 
Pool entered the Oval Office at 2:33 pm for a spray ahead of the bilat between Potus and King Abdullah.
The two leaders sat in yellow wingback chairs, side by side. Potus was holding white note cards.
Potus welcomed the king. "We've been hanging out together for a long time"
King thanked potus. "I had the privilege of knowing you with my father decades ago"
Queen Rania was not present at the spray (apologies for earlier misleading pool report), and will not be present at the bilat.
Flotus's office advised yesterday that FLOTUS will have tea with Queen Rania today, but did not indicate a time.
The King's elder son, Crown Prince Hussein bin Abdullah II, was present at the Oval spray, seated on the couch near his father. Thank you to Nadia Bilbassy of Al Arabiya TV for identifying the crown prince.
Cacophony of shouted questions were ignored by both leaders. The three men - the King, POTUS, and the crown prince (a 2016 graduate of Georgetown U - all smiled at the pool as we were escorted out of the room by wranglers at 2:37.



July 19, 202114:54

In town pool report 9a - pix of Crown Prince, King, POTUS via twitter 
Here are some pix I grabbed of the Crown Prince (age 27), King Abdullah, and POTUS as we were being escorted out of the Oval, via Twitter:
https://mobile.twitter.com/linda_feldmann/status/1417194989801586690



July 19, 202115:02

In town pool report 10 - travel/photo lid 
A travel/photo lid was announced at 3:00 pm.
Enjoy the rest of your day.



July 19, 202115:18

In town pool report 11 - expanded bilat participant lists 
Press office reports that the expanded bilat between King Abdullah of Jordan and President Biden began at 3:01 pm.
More info from White House:
Attending the President's expanded bilateral meeting with His Majesty King Abdullah II ibn Al Hussein, King of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan:
U.S. Manifest The PresidentT.H. Antony Blinken, Secretary of StateT.H. Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security AffairsT.H. Henry Wooster, Ambassador of the United States to JordanT. H. Brett McGurk, Deputy Assistant to the President and Coordinator for the Middle East and North Africa, National Security CouncilT. H. Barbara Leaf, Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for the Middle East and North Africa, National Security CouncilMs. Alice Tobin, Director for Jordan and Lebanon, National Security Council
Jordan Manifest His Majesty King Abdullah II of the Hashemite Kingdom of JordanHis Royal Highness Al Hussein Bin Abdullah II, Crown Prince of the Hashemite Kingdom of JordanHis Excellency Ayman Safadi, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs and ExpatriatesHis Excellency Jafar Hassan, Director of His Majesty's OfficeHer Excellency Dina Kawar, Ambassador of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan to the United StatesMr. Fahad Alkhitan, Director of Media and CommunicationsMr. Mustafa Khalifeh, Director of His Royal Highness the Crown Prince's Office



July 19, 202115:45

In town pool report 12 - expanded bilat ends 3:28 
The expanded bilat between POTUS and Jordan's King Abdullah ended at 3:28 pm, per press office.




 
Pool Report below by Nadia Bilbassy-Charters, Al-Arabiya 



Sent:
Reports:




July 19, 202114:59

Foreign pool report #1 King Abdullah II meeting with POTUS -Oval office spry 
Pool was ushered to the oval office at 2:33 pm. Both the King and POTUS were seated next to each other. Crown Prince Hussein Bin Abdullah II was also at the Oval office, sitting alone on the sofa next to the two leaders.
The king spoke in fluent English, the Crown Prince didn't speak, both leaders didn't take any questions despite journalists shouting few.
Here is the Kings's remarks.
"Mr. President, thank you as always for the kindness. You showed me and as alluded to, I had the honor and the privilege of knowing you with my father, decades ago. So this is a very rewarding for me to be able to see you in this position and and to thank you for the generosity you've always have shown me and my country, you alluded to supporting us with vaccines on behalf of the people of Jordan thank you so much for the leadership so not only is supporting our country but fighting COVID internationally to set the standard for the rest of this all, we come together as always strong partners. We have, as you said many challenges in our part of the world. Many of us leaders from around the world do the heavy lifting, which is what we need to do with the United States, but you can always count on me. My country, and many of our colleagues in the region. A lot to ... " Please check against the official transcript.
An expanded meeting with the delegation is to follow, its closed press event.
The King is here on a long trip which started in California, after his meeting with POTUS, he is expected to meet tomorrow with Secretary of State, Antony Blinken at the State Dept. He is also scheduled to meet with congressional leaders in both chambers and from both parties.
Jordanian delegation attending the expanded meeting are:
Foreign Minister and Deputy PM, Ayman Al Safadi.
Director of his King's office Jafar Hassan.
Jordan Ambassador to the United States Dina Kawar.
The White House issued this statement on July 7:
The President and the First Lady look forward to welcoming His Majesty King Abdullah II of Jordan, Her Majesty Queen Rania, and His Royal Highness Crown Prince Hussein to the White House on July 19, 2021. His Majesty's visit will highlight the enduring and strategic partnership between the United States and Jordan, a key security partner and ally of the United States. It will be an opportunity to discuss the many challenges facing the Middle East and showcase Jordan's leadership role in promoting peace and stability in the region. President Biden looks forward to working with His Majesty to strengthen bilateral cooperation on multiple political, security, and economic issues, including the promotion of economic opportunities that will be vital for a bright future in Jordan.
Earlier POTUS tweeted:
I look forward to welcoming
@KingAbdullahII ibn Al Hussein & Queen Rania Al Abdullah of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan & His Royal Highness Crown Prince Al Hussein Bin Abdullah II, to the White House. We're committed to the enduring and strategic partnership between our nations.




  