
    "Romney: At This Historic Crossroads, The Right Choice Is Crucial"
By Governor Mitt Romney
New Hampshire Union Leader
July 12, 2007
"It is no secret that an overwhelming majority of Americans believe that it is time for our country to change our current direction and set a new course to meet a new generation of challenges that affect the future of American families, businesses, military and security. To meet these challenges, there needs to be a change in Washington.
"Both political parties claim to represent change, but there are major differences. When Republicans talk of change, we talk about opportunity, freedom and the people who can make these changes. When Democrats talk of change they advocate big government, big welfare, big taxes and big brother."
...
"Democrats talk about raising taxes on people. We talk about cutting spending by government. For Democrats, it is always government first, people last. In 2011, they plan a record-breaking income tax hike."
...
"I propose a different path, one that will grow the economy and address the fiscal problem in Washington. We need to make the Bush tax cuts permanent, kill the death tax once and for all, and make interest on savings, dividends and capital gains tax-free for middle-income Americans. It's the right thing to do for our economy and it is past time to do it.
"Conservatives rightly recognize that our fiscal problem is not that Washington is taxing too little, but that bureaucrats there are spending too much."
...
"Today's new generation of challenges includes threats to our national security. Violent jihadists are determined to replace moderate Muslim governments with a caliphate or imam."
...
"All this talk of jihadists, Salafi Muslims, and the War on Terror makes Democrats like former Sen. John Edwards uncomfortable. He says the War on Terror is only a slogan. Tell that to the people in London, Glasgow, Bali, Malaysia, Pakistan, Lebanon, Tanzania, Kenya, Saudi Arabia, Israel, New York, Boston and Washington, D.C. If there is a war being waged by the terrorists, there will be war waged on the terrorists and we will win."
...
"Conservatism, Republicanism, is a philosophy of strength. We believe in a strong military, a strong economy and strong families and values. The way forward is not to look left, but to look ahead. There is too much at stake to do otherwise."...
To read the full op-ed, please see: www.unionleader.com
To read more about the Romney Vision, please see:
http://www.mittromney.com/News/Press-Releases/Romney_Vision_Stronger_America
  