
    The Rudy Giuliani Presidential Committee today announced Hialeah, FL Mayor Julio Robaina has endorsed Mayor Giuliani for President of the United States. In addition to serving as Co-Chair of Rudy's Florida Campaign, Mayor Robaina will be a National Co-Chair of Mayors for Rudy.
"As a Mayor, I know what it takes to be both an effective executive and an advocate for your city. I'm honored to join Rudy's campaign because I know the difficulty of what he accomplished as Mayor of New York City, and I know he'll bring the same effectiveness and strong leadership to the Presidency," said Robaina.
"Mayor Robaina has proven to be a tremendous leader for the city of Hialeah, and I'm honored to have him as a co-chair of our Florida campaign," Giuliani said. "He understands the challenges our cities face and will be an asset as we spread our message of controlling government growth and spending, lowering taxes, and keeping Americans safe."
About Mayor Julio Robaina:
A thirty year resident of the city of Hialeah, Robaina was elected Mayor of Hialeah in 2005. Prior to his service as Mayor, he served on the city council, including as President of the Council from 2000 to 2005. During his term as Councilman, he was named Chairman of the City of Hialeah Charter Review Board and served as the council's representative on the City of Hialeah's Elected Officials Retirement Board.
As both Council President and Mayor, Robaina has been an active leader for his city at the local, state, and federal levels. He was appointed to the State of Florida Century Commission and to the Board of Directors for the Florida League of Cities. Robaina was elected president of the Florida League of Cities and served from 2005 to 2006. He is also a graduate of the prestigious Leadership Florida.
Robaina has championed education causes in his first term as Mayor, creating the Mayor's Education Advisory Board, the Partnership to Advance School Success Program, and the After School Tutoring Program and Reading Corners.
  