
    Members of Congress
House Agriculture Committee Chairman Mike Conaway (R-TX): "For years, our committee has highlighted that the U.S. is living up to its trade commitments even as foreign countries double-down on predatory trade practices that hurt America's farmers, ranchers, businesses and workers ... I thank the president and Sec. Perdue for having our farmers' and ranchers' backs, including today's announcement on expanded market access in Europe. This follows on yesterday's commitment to provide short-term assistance to our farmers and ranchers as they weather unjustified retaliatory tariffs."
Sen. John Boozman (R-AK): "I congratulate President Trump and EU Commission President Juncker in taking a very promising step forward for American manufacturers, innovators and agricultural producers. The US and EU can build off this positive momentum to make our robust economic relationship even stronger."
Sen. David Perdue (R-GA): "The EU has opened the door to transition from a tariff discussion to substantive item-by-item negotiations. Our trading partners are looking at imbalances in a different light under @POTUS."
Sen. Chuck Grassley (R-IA): "Very good news that Pres Trump & EU Pres are reaching [agreement] on trade ... [It's] good news for soybean farmers"
Sen. Joni Ernst (R-IA): "Soybeans are a big deal in #Iowa. Thank you @realDonaldTrump for engaging the European Union and working toward a win for U.S."
Sen. John Hoeven (R-ND): "@POTUS announced that the EU will buy more soybeans, LNG & other U.S. products & work toward zero tariffs & non-tariff barriers - a big step in getting better, more fair trade deals."
Sen. Pat Toomey (R-PA): "Eliminating tariffs and breaking down trade barriers between the US and the EU would enhance our bilateral trading relationship and make both our peoples more prosperous. I support @POTUS and President Juncker's efforts to make this a reality."
Sen. Lindsey Graham (R-SC): "Great joint press conference between President @realDonaldTrump and @JunckerEU. Good news for American consumers and businesses. Opening EU markets to American farm goods and reducing tariffs on industrial goods would be a major step forward. ... Well done, Mr. President."
Sen. Mike Rounds (R-SD): "The White House announcement yesterday that the EU will buy more soybeans from the U.S. is good news for South Dakota's producers."
Rep. Jim Banks (R-IN): "Good move by @POTUS. 'Zero tariffs, zero non-tariff barriers and zero subsidies on non-auto industrial goods' is the right goal."
Rep. Ralph Abraham (R-LA): "The European Union has committed to import more soybeans and more LNG from the United States. This is outstanding news that can directly benefit Louisiana."
Rep. Kevin Cramer (R-ND): "Today's announcement is progress, demonstrating this President knows how to get our trading partners' attention."
Rep. Kristi Noem (R-SD): "Farmers and ranchers want open markets. We want to grow and sell the world's best food. Yesterday's announcement about new soybean exports to Europe shows @realDonaldTrump understands that and shares our goal."
Rep. Chuck Fleischmann (R-TN): "I am pleased with President Trump's announcement that today ushers in a new phase of international relations grounded in the conservative principle of free trade, and I look forward to further announcements as negotiations progress and trade barriers are reduced."
Rep. Kevin Brady (R-TX): "I congratulate the President for reaching a vitally important and timely agreement with EU Commission President Juncker to negotiate zero tariffs, zero subsidies, and zero barriers with the EU, as well as to strengthen and reform the WTO to address the distortions created by China's unfair and dishonest trade practices ... By moving the EU to work with us to address China's unfair trade and to reform the WTO, the President and his team have fundamentally changed the trading environment in a way that will benefit all Americans."
Cabinet Members & Administration Officials
Secretary of the Treasury Steven Mnuchin: "We had a long negotiating session yesterday. We concluded an outline of an agreement, and now we'll turn this into a real agreement. But this really started with President Trump and his discussions at the G-7. Making it clear that he wanted with the G-7 in Europe free trade, which was no tariffs, no tariff barriers, no subsidies."
Secretary of Commerce Wilbur Ross: "This is a real vindication of the President's trade policy."
European Union Officials
European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker: "I came for a deal, we made a deal."
European Commission Vice President For Jobs, Growth, Investment, & Competitiveness Jyrki Katainen: "I'm delighted that Presidents Juncker & Trump agreed that that the EU & US will work together: 1) towards a trade agreement with zero #tariffs, zero non tariff barriers, & zero subsidies in non auto industrial goods, 2) to reform the #WTO to address unfair trade practices, 2/2: and 3) to refrain from new #tariffs & resolve #steel and #aluminium tariffs and rebalancing measures."
  