
    "This election is a clear choice between doubling down on the failed policies of the last four years. President Obama has nothing new to offer—simply wants to try to tax, spend, borrow away into prosperity. Governor Romney instead is offering a different path to restore the American dream, to grow the private sector economy so our kids will have even more opportunities than those we inherited from our parents. I think the contrast is clear." — Gov. Bobby Jindal
Gov. Bobby Jindal and Gov. Bob McDonnell
Press Conference Call
July 26, 2012
Click Here To Listen To The Entire Call
Highlights From The "Misplaced Priorities" Press Conference Call:
GOV. BOB MCDONNELL: "So it's not just the rhetoric, it's not just these words, but it's actually the policies, and I think those together show this President is out of touch, and he's out of ideas, and frankly he's just out of time, and we need a new leader in Mitt Romney.  You know an interesting statistic we've seen recently is the President hasn't met with his own Jobs Council—the people that he's appointed to be able to advise him on how to turn this economy turn around and get 23 million people back to work and fully employed.  He hadn't met with them in 191 days and yet, during that time, he's played golf ten times, he's filmed a campaign commercial in the West Wing, and he's had 110 fundraisers.  So there's a clear lack of focus on what we need to get the United States of America back to work." 
GOV. BOBBY JINDAL: "Now the President got in trouble, several days ago. He said, 'If you've got a business you didn't build that.' His aides said, well no, that's not what he really meant. A few weeks ago, he said the private sector was doing fine, it was the public sector that needed help, then his aides had to come out and say, no he didn't really mean that.  It's not just these phrases, these speeches.  The reality is, I think they reveal a lot about this President's thinking and his policies. The reality is he has grown government spending to 24 to 25 percent of GDP.  That's simply not sustainable.  This election is a clear choice between doubling down on the failed policies of the last four years. President Obama has nothing new to offer—simply wants to try to tax, spend, borrow away into prosperity. Governor Romney instead is offering a different path to restore the American dream, to grow the private sector economy so our kids will have even more opportunities than those we inherited from our parents. I think the contrast is clear.  The response here in Iowa on the ground has been enthusiastic and strong. People in Iowa are ready to make history again. Four years ago they gave President Obama a chance, he's not lived up to his promises."
  