
    Chicago, IL - The Obama campaign launched a new video on barackobama.com today that features Senator Obama talking about the Live Earth concert coming up this weekend.
The video can be viewed at http://my.barackobama.com/page/content/liveearth.
Live Earth is a 24-hour, 7-continent concert series taking place this Saturday that will bring together more than 100 music artists and 2 billion people to trigger a global movement to solve the climate crisis.
Below is a script of Barack Obama's video:
Let me begin by congratulating the organizers of Live Earth, and in particular, former Vice President Al Gore. Al has been a bold, prescient leader on climate change, and we all owe him a debt of gratitude.
What Al and so many of you recognized long ago was that climate change is not some distant problem we can deal with later or wait for someone else to solve. From the record drought, famine, and forest fires that plague our planet to the rising sea levels that could one day submerge cities around the world, we know this is a global crisis that affects us all - and so we must all be united in solving it.
And no nation is better prepared than we are to lead this global effort. We've got the resources and the ingenuity - the plans and the policies. What we're lacking is the courage and the leadership. For too long, we've had politicians who are afraid to ask the oil and auto industries to do their part, while those industries hire armies of lobbyists to make sure things stay the way they are.
So let's put an end to the failed politics of yesterday's energy debate. Let's solve this crisis once and for all. I've proposed some steps we can take - from raising our fuel efficiency standards to putting a cap on carbon emissions - but real change in this country has always come not from the top-down, but from the bottom-up. It's always started with people like you. One thing you can do is to join our movement by signing up online. Together, we can send a message to Washington that this is an issue that matters - this is an issue we can't wait any longer to solve.
So I know you'll have fun at the Live Earth concert. But I also know you feel as I do - that when the music ends, our work begins.
  