
    
  Oklahoma Conservative Says Cruz is a "Winner" and "Proven Fundraiser"

HOUSTON, Texas – Oklahoma Representative Jim Bridenstine, one of the most principled conservatives in the House of Representatives, has endorsed U.S. Ted Cruz, R-Texas, for President. Bridenstine is a vocal leader among a growing group of young conservatives in the House that have pushed for smaller, more accountable government, full repeal of Obamacare, and protections for religious liberty. The Oklahoma Republican becomes the sixth Member of Congress to endorse Cruz following announcements from Texas Representatives Louie Gohmert, Michael Burgess, John Culberson, John Ratcliffe, and Brian Babin.
In a recent Breitbart.com op-ed Bridenstine wrote:
At a time when judicial activism and DC's perverse incentives are concentrating power in Washington, we need a tested candidate who has confronted the giants from the inside, rejected them, and defeated them. Selecting such a nominee is critical, because nobody comes to Washington and becomes more principled.
I have seen Sen. Ted Cruz meet the test by standing up to the Washington Cartel. In 2013, when both political parties suggested we needed to change our approach to the Second Amendment, Sen. Ted Cruz fought back and came out the winner. In the same year, when both political parties were moving at breakneck speed to pass a comprehensive immigration bill that included amnesty, Sen. Ted Cruz once again fought back, stood against the Washington Cartel, and came out the winner.
Some say he stands alone, but I say he stands with the American people. I saw that most clearly when he fought with everything he had to defund Obamacare. He told Republicans that funding Obamacare subsidies would create a dependency that Congress would never repeal and the Supreme Court would never overturn. He quoted Ronald Reagan: "A government bureau is the nearest thing to eternal life we'll ever see on this earth." After June's Supreme Court ruling, we now know that Ted Cruz was correct.
...
Ted Cruz is a proven fundraiser, and that will be necessary to defeat the Clinton machine. True grassroots candidates, like Ted Cruz, generally struggle after the first few primary states due to funding. Ted is different. He will go the distance. This alone should excite and motivate all of us who have been waiting for a full spectrum, grass-roots candidate to vie for the Republican nomination.
I am proud to be the sixth Member of Congress to endorse Ted Cruz for President. I believe he is the strongest candidate and that he will beat Hillary Clinton for the Presidency in 2016.

Read the full endorsement here.
  