
    Artists Richie McDonald, Tim Rushlow and Charles Billingsley to Perform
Urbandale, Iowa — Republican presidential candidate Michele Bachmann announced today a list of inspiring and accomplished artists who will perform on the Team Bachmann stage at the 2011 Iowa GOP Straw Poll. Team Bachmann's entertainment program, and related activities, are being developed to ensure that the day's events are enjoyable and meaningful for her supporters and their families who make the trip to Ames on August 13. Renowned country music singers Richie McDonald and Tim Rushlow along with Christian artist Charles Billingsley will perform as part of the exciting Team Bachmann straw poll entertainment program.
Richie, Tim, and Charles are all extremely accomplished and inspiring artists and I'm excited to have them perform for our supporters at the straw poll," Bachmann said. "While Iowa Republicans take great pride in participating in the straw poll, I also recognize the time commitment involved so I want to do all I can to make it a fun and comfortable day for my supporters and their families."
Richie McDonald has long been one of music's most accomplished and wide-ranging talents. Recognized as one of country's best singers, he was the face and voice of Lonestar, ranked among the genre's preeminent groups. A polished and engaging entertainer, he was the focal point of the group's storied touring career. As one of the industry's most successful songwriters, he has penned some of the era's most memorable songs and earned a mantle full of awards and nominations. Now, with the upcoming release of "Slowdown," he launches his much-anticipated solo career and demonstrates that he is just now hitting his stride. His was the voice behind songs like "Amazed," "Smile" and "No News" and the pen behind the song "My Front Porch Looking In" and "Let Them be Little." He has earned six gold and platinum albums, several CMA and ACM awards as well as BMI awards for songwriting. In writing and singing "I'm Already There," he was responsible for a song embraced so warmly by the military and their families, it has become an unofficial anthem for US troops serving in the Middle East. (www.RichieMcDonald.com)
Tim Rushlow is an award-winning American country music artist. Between 1991-1997 — Rushlow was co-lead vocalist of the country music band Little Texas, which recorded four albums and a greatest hits package, in addition to charting fifteen singles on the Billboard country singles charts. After Little Texas disbanded in 1997, Rushlow began a solo career. His first recording was the musical track "Totally Committed" with comedian Jeff Foxworthy. Two years later, Rushlow signed to Atlantic Records, recording one album and charting a Top Ten single on the country charts titled "She Misses Him." When Atlantic closed its country division in 2001, Rushlow formed a six-piece band called Rushlow, which charted two singles and recorded one album for Lyric Street Records in 2003. Tim has also won several ACM and CMA awards and is a three time Grammy nominee." Tim has just released his first pop single to Christian radio with the full record being released in the fall of 2011. Tim has also done four world tours for the troops and will do another this October with Richie McDonald. Tim will also be hosting a musical reality show on network television in 2012. (www.TimRushlow.com)
Charles Billingsley is an accomplished Christian artist, song writer and worship leader. He spent two years with the award-winning group NewSong, where the album People Get Readyhad four #1 hits including the song "Arise, My Love." Following his time with NewSong, Charles pursued a solo career. In 2002, he became the worship pastor at Thomas Road Baptist Church, as well as the artist-in-residence at Liberty University. In 2005, Charles moved to San Diego, CA to work with Dr. David Jeremiah at Shadow Mountain Community Church, home of Turning Point Ministries. Charles returned to Thomas Road in 2007 and resumed his position of worship leader. He continues to serve on the advisory council of the Center for Worship at Liberty University. He is also the President of Red Tie Music, a new Christian music publishing company. In his career of almost 20 years, Charles has performed 2,800 concerts in more than 2,000 churches all over the world. His newest solo project will release this fall.(www.CharlesBillingsley.com)
For more information on the Team Bachmann straw poll events, please go to Ames.MicheleBachmann.com.
  