
    Mitt Romney today announced the support of former veterans service organization leaders.
"I'm extraordinarily honored to have the support of such a large group of leaders from our nation's veterans service organization," said Mitt Romney. "These organizations provide a crucial service to our heroes and their families after they've returned home. We owe our veterans a tremendous debt of gratitude and, as president, I will never forget their sacrifices."
"For decades, veterans have come home and built their lives in the country they have helped to defend," said Paul Spera, former National Commander-In-Chief of the Veterans of Foreign Wars. "Today however, our brave men and women have found it harder and harder to find a job and maintain economic security. Mitt Romney has been a tireless advocate for our nation's veterans and he will continue to be as president. I am proud to stand with him because I know he stands with us."
"Having spent 18 years as Executive Director of the American Legion, I've come to know what leadership looks like," said John Sommer, former Executive Director of the American Legion. "Mitt Romney is committed to our soldiers and our veterans. He understands that we owe a debt of gratitude to them that can never be repaid. Under his leadership, our soldiers and sailors can come home from war confident that the nation they fought for will fight for them."
As the former National Commander of the Disabled Veterans of America, I have seen too many of our military personnel come back from war only to find a new battle at home, one where there are no jobs available and no way for them to provide for their families," said Chad Colley, former National Commander of the Disabled Veterans of America. "That's shameful, and it has to change. Mitt Romney has a plan to get our economy moving again, one that will reignite the engines of job growth for our veterans and all Americans. Mitt Romney will be a leader our veterans can count on, and he has my support."
Leaders of Veterans Service Organizations That Have Endorsed Mitt Romney:
Edward Banas, Sr., former National Commander-in-Chief of the Veterans of Foreign Wars
Chad Colley, former National Commander of the Disabled Veterans of America
John Comer, former National Commander of the American Legion.
George Cramer, Jr., former National Commander-in-Chief of the Veterans of Foreign Wars
James Currieo, former National Commander-in-Chief of the Veterans of Foreign Wars from
John Gwizdak, former National Commander-in-Chief of the Veterans of Foreign Wars
Walter Hogan, former National Commander-in-Chief of the Veterans of Foreign Wars
Gary Kurpius, former National Commander-in-Chief of the Veterans of Foreign Wars
George Lisicki, former National Commander-in-Chief of the Veterans of Foreign Wars
Gordon Mansfield, former Executive Director of Paralyzed Veterans of America.
James Muller, former National Commander-in-Chief of the Veterans of Foreign Wars
Clifford Olson, Jr., former National Commander-in-Chief of the Veterans of Foreign Wars
John Smart, former National Commander-in-Chief of the Veterans of Foreign WarsJohn Sommer, former
Executive Director of the American Legion
Robert Spanogle, former National Commander of the American Legion
Paul Spera, former National Commander-in-Chief of the Veterans of Foreign Wars
Norman Staab, former National Commander-in-Chief of the Veterans of Foreign Wars
John Stang, former National Commander-in-Chief of the Veterans of Foreign Wars
John Staum, former National Commander-in-Chief of the Veterans of Foreign Wars
Thomas Tradewell, former National Commander-in-Chief of the Veterans of Foreign Wars
John Wasylik, former National Commander-in-Chief of the Veterans of Foreign Wars
  