
    The President today announced the designation of Lloyd N. Cutler, of Chevy Chase, Md., as his special representative for maritime boundary and resource negotiations with Canada, with the personal rank of Ambassador. Ambassador Cutler, who is a Washington attorney, will conduct negotiations with Canada over the coming months in an effort to reach a comprehensive settlement of U.S.-Canadian maritime boundaries and related fishery and hydrocarbon issues.
The Government of Canada has named Ambassador Marcel Cadieux to conduct its negotiations. Ambassador Cadieux formerly served as Under-Secretary of the Department of External Affairs in Ottawa and as Ambassador of Canada to the United States. He is on temporary assignment from his position as Canadian Ambassador to the European Communities.
The two countries attempted to resolve their maritime boundary and fisheries issues in talks from late 1975 to early 1977. Failing agreement, earlier this year they entered into an interim Reciprocal Fisheries Agreement for 1977, to enable each country to continue fishing in the 200-mile zone of the other while negotiations for more permanent arrangements proceed. The new negotiations will resume under the direction of Ambassador Cutler and Ambassador Cadieux around August 1.
The two Governments have agreed that, with a view toward reaching a negotiated settlement between them, the special negotiators will be guided by the following terms of reference. The negotiators will report to Governments by October 15, 1977, on the principles of a comprehensive settlement encompassing:
--maritime boundaries delimitation;
--complementary fishery and hydrocarbon resource arrangements, as appropriate;
--such other related matters as the two Governments may decide.
The negotiators will develop the substance of an ad referendum comprehensive settlement for submission to Governments by December 1, 1977.
The negotiators will organize and conduct the negotiations in the manner and in the places which they judge will best facilitate a settlement.
Negotiations concerning West Coast salmon will be resumed separately on a priority basis. The special negotiators will determine the relationship, if any, between the courses and outcomes of the two sets of negotiations.
Cutler was born November 10, 1917, in New York City. He received an A.B. (1936) and an LL.B. (1939) from Yale University. He served in the U.S. Army from 1942 to 1945.
From 1946 to 1962, Cutler was a partner in the law firm of Cox, Langford, Stoddard & Cutler. He has been a partner with Wilmer, Cutler & Pickering since 1962.
Cutler was secretary of the Lawyers Committee on Civil Rights Under Law from 1963 to 1965, and cochairman from 1971 to 1973. He was vice chairman of the Business Leadership Advisory Council, Office of Economic Opportunity, in 1963. In 1968 and 1969, he was Executive Director of the National Commission on the Causes and Prevention of Violence.
  