
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate three individuals, appoint one individual, and designate two individuals to serve in his Administration. He has also designated one individual to serve in his Administration.
The President intends to nominate Margrethe Lundsager, of Virginia, to be United States Executive Director of the International Monetary Fund for a two year term. Ms. Lundsager currently serves as Alternate United States Executive Director. Prior to this, she served as Deputy Assistant Secretary for International Trade and Investment Policy at the Department of the Treasury. Earlier in her career, she served as Director of the Office of Asian and Near East Nations. Ms. Lundsager received her bachelor's degree from American University and her master's degree from the University of Maryland.
The President intends to nominate Ronald A. Tschetter, of Minnesota, to be Director of the Peace Corps. Mr. Tschetter currently serves as President of D.A. Davidson & Company. Prior to this, he served as President of Dain Rauscher, Incorporated. Earlier in his career, he served as a volunteer with the United States Peace Corps in India. Mr. Tschetter received his bachelor's degree from Bethel College.
The President intends to nominate Dianne I. Moss, of Colorado, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation for the remainder of a three year term expiring December 17, 2007.
The President intends to appoint W. Craig Vanderwagen, of Maryland, to be Assistant Secretary for Public Health Emergency Preparedness at the Department of Health and Human Services. Dr. Vanderwagen currently serves as Special Assistant to the Deputy Secretary for Preparedness at the Department of Health and Human Services. Prior to this, he served as Director of the Office of Clinical and Preventative Services and Acting Chief Medical Officer at Indian Health Service. Earlier in his career, he served as Chief of Public Health of the Coalition Provisional Authority for the Iraq Ministry of Health. Dr. Vanderwagen received his bachelor's degree from Calvin College and Seminary. He later received his MD from Michigan State University.
The President intends to designate Stephen R. Larson, of Virginia, to be Acting General Counsel for the Department of Treasury.
The President intends to designate Arthur T. Hopkins, of Maine, to be Acting Assistant to the Secretary of Defense for Nuclear and Chemical and Biological Defense Programs.
The President has designated Ronald J. James, of Ohio, to be Acting Chief Human Capital Officer at the Department of Homeland Security.
  