
    Iowans Weigh In: Kamala Harris Successfully Prosecutes the Case Against Trump in Debate
Tonight, Iowans across the state applauded Senator Kamala Harris' performance in the second Democratic debate, where she laid out her plans to deliver real, bold solutions for the challenges American families face and showed why she is the best candidate to prosecute the case against four more years of Donald Trump.
She discussed her "3AM Agenda" to find solutions for the issues that wake people up at night and take actions to make their lives better, including her Medicare for All plan that ensures health care is a right, not a privilege. She brought critical issues to the forefront of the conversation, discussing reproductive justice and her plans to hold corporations responsible for ensuring equal pay for women.
Harris will return to Iowa on August 8 for her 5-day bus tour from Sioux City in Northwest Iowa to Davenport in Southeast Iowa, from the Missouri River to the Mississippi. She will make stops across three of Iowa's congressional districts throughout Northwestern, Northeastern, Central, and Southeastern Iowa.
Here are some early reviews from caucusgoers across Iowa:
Alexandra Rucinski, Women's Health Activist -"Kamala Harris' Medicare for All plan is the health care plan that Iowans want and she showed she can defend it from attacks on both sides."
Kelli Emerson, Bettendorf, IA -"I think her closing statement said it all. She is the one who can prosecute the case against Donald Trump and begin to repair the damage he has done. That's why I'm all in."
Rep. Phyllis Thede, Davenport, IA -"Kamala is a fighter she will prevail no matter how tough it gets. She exhibited strength and tenacity. Her fierce fight and stage presence gives the American people a real sense of how President Harris will help all of us succeed."
Vanessa Phelan, Northwest Des Moines Democrats Chair -"Thank you for talking about the pay gap in the #DemDebate, @KamalaHarris! It's a big issue for so many families. She brought women into the conversation#ForThePeople. Go get more info: kamalaharris.org/equalpay/"
Amber Gustufson, Small Business Owner and Gun Sense Advocate, Ankeny, IA -"SO grateful that Kamala Harris brought choice and reproductive rights to the debate stage tonight! Without her, this issue that is so important to women and families would have been ignored for two full nights."
Randa Wall, Middle School Teacher, Panora, IA -"I support Kamala Harris because she's going to support and fight for teachers!"
Vernon Fitzpatrick, Cedar Falls -"She really showed that she can hold her own up there."
Jean Hessberg, Iowa Democratic Party Women's Caucus Chair -"@KamalaHarris yes! Pay Equity plan is spot on in our year of the Lord #DemDebate #ForThePeople #IACaucus"
Rebecca Taylor, West Des Moines, IA -"Loving Kamala and all her fierceness and her vision #ForThePeople"
Prakash Kopparapu, Chair of the Iowa Asian and Latino Coalition -"Sen. Harris made the best case so far."
Ron Parker, Des Moines, IA -"#KamalaHarris is solid. Onward! Upward! #WatchParty"
  