
    SAN JUAN, Puerto Rico — Tulsi Gabbard, Hawaii Congresswoman and presidential candidate, arrived in Puerto Rico today in an act of solidarity with the citizens of Puerto Rico who are exercising their first amendment rights to protest government corruption. 
"I'm here today to stand with and show support for my fellow Americans in Puerto Rico in their stand against corruption, and against a government that has proven it is of, by and for the rich and powerful, leaving the people behind. 
These protests are about more than offensive language in leaked chats. They're about more than Governor Ricardo Rosselló and his associates' elitist attitudes. They're about rampant corruption within Puerto Rico's government that pretends to serve the interests of its people but instead exploits them, over and over again for profits and power. It is this blatant corruption that undermines people's faith in our democracy, our country and our values." 
Congresswoman Gabbard is calling on the Democratic Party and her fellow presidential candidates to join her in standing with the people of Puerto Rico to demand that this corrupt administration headed by Governor Rossello step down.
"Puerto Rico is an example of how decades of neglect by those in power, who put their own selfish interests ahead of the well-being of the people, and who put profits and politics ahead of the needs of its citizens, erodes faith in our democracy and causes widespread suffering. 
Our country is at a crossroads and we all need to stand with the people of Puerto Rico, instead of the corrupt Democratic leadership that is currently in power. The Democratic Party needs to be the party that is of, by and for the people, not the elite, powerful, self-serving politicians."  
With love for my country I stand with fellow Americans in Puerto Rico here on American soil, with those who demand change. I stand with the people of Puerto Rico who love our country, who have sacrificed for our country and our people. Who have fought for our civil rights, and who I served alongside in Iraq. Who have put their lives on the line to serve our country. I stand with these great patriots and the people of Puerto Rico who deserve a government of the people, by the people, and for the people. 
  