
    THE VICE PRESIDENT: Well, thank you, Dr. Price. And good afternoon to all. To the families who are gathered here from all across America, on behalf of the First Family, welcome to the White House.
Since the first day of this administration, President Donald Trump has been working to keep the promises that he made to the American people to rebuild our military, revive our economy. And this President has worked tirelessly to repeal and replace Obamacare.
President Trump knows that every day Obamacare survives is another day that American families and American businesses struggle.
As we've traveled across the country, we've heard firsthand from Americans just like those who stand behind me today, from families who are bearing the cost of skyrocketing premiums and plummeting choices, from families who've lost their doctors, lost their insurance, and from families who are starting to lose hope that Congress will ever respond.
But as I've told every one of them and people all across this country, thanks to the leadership of President Trump, help is on the way. President Trump hears you. He is fighting for you, and he will keep fighting every day until we give the American people access to the world-class health care they deserve.
Tomorrow, the United States Senate will have the opportunity to begin the debate on a bill to repeal and replace Obamacare. And as the President said this morning, after years of talking and campaigning on it, now is the time for Republicans in the Senate to act. Republicans in the Senate will have in his words a "chance to do the right thing" to keep their promise to the American people and these families and families all across this country. And this President and the American people are counting on the Senate to act.
So with gratitude for his leadership and his persistence and determination to make American health care great again, it is my high honor and distinct privilege to introduce to these families and to all of you the 45th President of the United States of America -- President Donald Trump. (Applause.)
  