
    President Bush. Mr. President, thank you very much for your time. We—you and I have had a lot of meetings together, and I always appreciate the candid discussions on a variety of issues.
The President and I discussed Taiwan; we discussed Sudan; we discussed trade. We discussed a variety of issues. I told the President I was looking forward to coming to the Olympics. I reminded him that not only am I coming, but my wife, my mother, and dad will be there, and we're looking forward to your hospitality.
And of course, in this context, I—the President and I have constantly had discussions about human rights and political freedom. He knows my position. And as I told our people, Mr. President, I don't need the Olympics to talk candidly with somebody who I've got good relations with.
So I'm looking forward to your hospitality, and I'm really looking forward to watching the American Olympic team compete, particularly with the mighty Chinese team. And I'm hoping to get tickets for the U.S.-Chinese basketball game. If you could help me get a ticket, I'd appreciate it. [Laughter]
But thank you very much.
President Hu. Just now, President Bush and I had a sincere and friendly meeting, and we had an in-depth exchange of views on China-U.S. relations and issues of mutual interest. We both believe that a new progress has been made in China-U.S. relationship in recent years. Our two countries not only have close interactions between high-level leaders, but also between people at various other levels. Not long ago, China and United States successfully held the fourth Strategic Economic Dialogue, which produced positive results.
In addition, our two countries have also had fruitful cooperation in economic, trade, counterterrorism, energy, environmental protection, and other areas. We also have had close communication and coordination on such major regional and international issues as the Korean nuclear issue and Iranian nuclear issue.
To further consolidate and grow, China-U.S. relationship not only serves the fundamental interests of our two countries and our two peoples, but also will have a major impact on peace, stability, and prosperity in the Asia-Pacific region and in the world at large. Both President Bush and I said that we will continue to keep the larger direction of growing this constructive and cooperative relationship between us, and we will try to make efforts to ensure that this relationship will continue to grow on a sound and steady course.
I also briefed President Bush about the Chinese position on the Taiwan issue and informed President Bush about the current situation in the Taiwan Strait. We hope that the U.S. side will continue to follow the "one China" policy.
I welcome President Bush to Beijing to attend the opening ceremony of the Olympic Games. And I highly appreciated that President Bush has on various occasions expressed his opposition to politicizing the Olympic Games.
Thank you, Mr. President.
President Bush. Thank you, sir.
  