
    The President today announced his intention to appoint the following individuals to be members of the Board for International Food and Agricultural Development for terms of 3 years. The President also intends to designate E. T. York as Chairman.
Duane Acker will succeed Daryl Arnold. Dr. Acker is president of Kansas State University in Manhattan, Kans. He has served as a director of the U.S. Council on Agricultural Science and Technology and as chairman of U.S. Deans of Agriculture. He is married, has two children, and resides in Manhattan, Kans. He was born March 13, 1931, in Atlantic, Iowa.
Warren J. Baker will succeed C. Peter McGrath. He is president of California Polytechnic State University in San Luis Obispo, Calif. He is also a registered civil engineer and has practiced in the field of geotechnical engineering. He is married, has four children, and resides in San Luis Obispo, Calif. He was born September 5, 1938, in Fitchburg, Miss.
Paul Findley will succeed Harold Frank Robinson. He is a former U.S. Representative from Illinois. He is adjunct professor at Western Illinois University. While serving as a Member of Congress, he was a member of the Foreign Affairs and Agriculture Committees. He is married, has two children, and resides in Falls Church, Va. He was born June 23, 1921, in Jacksonville, Ill.
Benjamin F. Payton will succeed Clifton R. Wharton, Jr. He is president of the Kresge Center at the Tuskegee Institute in Alabama. He is married, has two children, and resides in Tuskegee Institute, Ala. He was born December 27, 1932, in Orangeburg, S.C.
E. T. York is a reappointment. He is chancellor emeritus of the State University System of Florida. He was provost for agriculture at the University of Florida in 1963-1973. Dr. York is a charter member and on the board of directors of Action for World Development and is a member of the technical advisory committee of the Consultative Group for International Research. He is married, has two children, and resides in Gainesville, Fla. He was born July 4, 1922, in Mentone, Ala.
  