
    SANTA FE, NM -- Today, Democratic Presidential candidate Bill Richardson announced the formation of his South Carolina steering committee. The committee includes elected officials, Democratic activists, members of the business and professional community, and community leaders from around the state. The committee will act as a base of support for Richardson's campaign throughout the state of South Carolina.
"I am honored to have the support of so many esteemed members of the South Carolina community," said Governor Richardson. "They have been leaders in this state, and I know that with their support, we can achieve real change."
Governor Richardson's South Carolina campaign will be co-chaired by State Representative Fletcher Smith and Former South Carolina Comptroller General Jim Lander.
"I am honored to be a Co-Chair for Governor Richardson," said Representative Fletcher Smith. "With his unparalleled record of achievement both in New Mexico, creating jobs, expanding the economy and cutting taxes; and on the national and international levels, reopening negotiations in North Korea, rescuing American hostages and receiving four Nobel Peace Prize nominations, I know he will make a great president. Governor Richardson is a true leader who works hard for Americans and represents South Carolina values and will continue to do that as President."
"Governor Richardson has spent the last several decades honing his skills as a leader. I support Governor Richardson because I know that his vast experience far outshines other candidates and that he will use it effectively for the good of the United States and the world," said Former Comptroller General Jim Lander.
Richardson for President South Carolina Steering Committee:

Fletcher Smith, State Representative, Greenville, Co-Chair
Jim Lander, Former SC Comptroller General, Newberry, Co-Chair
Ken Holland, Former US Congressman, Gaffney
Diane Aghapour, Former Charleston County Democratic Party Chair, Charleston
David Adams, Richland County Treasurer, Columbia
A.J. Glover, Dorchester County Democratic Party Chair, Summerville
Dell Isham, Former Director of the SC Sierra Club, Columbia
Dr. Hunter Stokes, Florence
Robert Burton, Former nominee for SC Adjutant General, Mt. Pleasant
Diana Salazar, Community Leader, North Charleston

  