
    ALBUQUERQUE, NM -- U.S. Senator John McCain's presidential campaign today announced the leadership of New Mexico Veterans for John McCain, a statewide grassroots organization that will work to bolster John McCain's support within New Mexico's veterans' community. With members representing all 33 Land of Enchantment counties, the group's membership spans generations, including veterans from World War II to the combat operations in Iraq and Afghanistan, as well as National Guardsmen.
"Veterans back John McCain because he always backs us. Whether it's working to improve veterans' health care or supporting the families who support them, Senator McCain clearly understands that this country is forever indebted to those who served, and who still serve today, in our nation's armed forces," said Co-Chair Col. Penny Bailey, USAF (Ret.), of New Mexico Veterans for John McCain. "While Barack Obama has played politics with troop funding, John McCain continues to fight for our men and women in uniform. I am proud to be supporting John McCain."
McCain's campaign announced the leadership of New Mexico Veterans for John McCain today at a luncheon rally in Las Cruces. Congresswoman Heather Wilson (R-NM) and Congressman Steve Pearce (R-NM), both Air Force veterans, will serve as Honorary Members. Coalition leaders said they plan on announcing County Chairmen for all of New Mexico's 33 counties in the coming weeks.
"Freedom1", the red, white and blue, full-sized recreational vehicle that was built specifically to lead the "Ride to Remember 2002", also took part in today's event. Freedom1 is known for driving across the country with 450 firefighters on Harley-Davidsons to visit Ground Zero, the Pentagon, and the 9/11 crash site in Pennsylvania. During the "Ride to Remember" enormous press coverage and state by state police escorts across the country drew big crowds that made Freedom1 a symbol of American patriotism.
NEW MEXICO VETERANS FOR JOHN MCCAIN LEADERSHIP TEAM
Co-Chairman Col. Barry J. Howard, USAF (Ret.), of Bernalillo County
Co-Chairwoman Col. Penny Bailey, USAF (Ret.), of Curry County
Regional Chairmen
Gunnery Sergeant Rube Render, USMC (Ret.), Curry County
Master Sergeant Tyrone "Terry" Benson, USAF (Ret.), Otero County
Former Army Specialist Dennis Clarke, Sandoval County
  