
    Las Vegas, NV - The Obama campaign announced today that Senator Steven Horsford, Assemblywoman Sheila Leslie, Rose McKinney-James, Billy Vassiliadis, and Elaine Wynn as members of the Nevada steering committee leadership team with key advisory roles on the state caucus team. The steering committee members will focus on building the grassroots network in the state, offering strategic advice leading up to the Nevada caucuses and serving as representatives for Senator Obama when he is not in the state.
"I am proud to have the support of this group of respected leaders and looking forward to working with them as we build a strong team of Nevadans committed to changing our politics so that we can meet the challenges facing our country like ending the Iraq War and providing universal health care," said Senator Barack Obama.
Senator Steven Horsford
Senator Horsford brings a tremendous amount of experience to the leadership team. Not only is Senator Horsford the youngest member in the Nevada State Senate, he is also a member of the Democratic National Committee and was instrumental in helping to secure the Presidential Caucus in Nevada.
Like Obama, Senator Horsford is an active community and grassroots organizer and will work to ensure a strong and diverse turnout for the upcoming Presidential Caucus in Nevada next January. As a policymaker and father of three, Senator Horsford will be involved in promoting Obama's youth and family agenda focused on finding real solutions to the challenges facing Americans.
Assemblywoman Sheila Leslie
As a five-term Assemblywoman from Reno, Sheila Leslie knows that real change comes from the bottom up and she will play an integral role in building a strong organization. Leslie serves many organizations including the Advisory Board of the Community Foundation of Western Nevada, the Nevada Kids Count Advisory Council, the Racial Justice Institute Advisory Board and she is a founding member of Join Together Northern Nevada.
Rose McKinney-James
Rose McKinney-James is a former Utility Commissioner, Chief of Staff for the City of Las Vegas and Director of the Nevada Department of Business and Industry and she was the first African American to win a statewide primary in Nevada. She currently serves as a board member of MGM Mirage, Employers Insurance Group and Toyota Financial Savings Bank. She is a successful small business owner with a consulting practice focusing on advocacy related to renewable energy, education and environmental policy.
Billy Vassiliadis
Billy Vassiliadis has served as a close advisor to former Governor Bob Miller, U.S. Senator Harry Reid, former Speaker of the Assembly Richard Perkins, Attorney General Catherine Cortez Masto, and Secretary of State Ross Miller. Vassiliadis is CEO and Principal of R&R Partners, the firm responsible for managing the second most recognizable brand in the world, Las Vegas, creating the famous "What Happens Here, Stays Here" slogan.
Elaine Wynn
Elaine Wynn currently serves as a Director of the Wynn Hotel in Las Vegas. As a long time community activist and advocate for children, Wynn has served as Co-Chairperson of the Greater Las Vegas After-School All-Stars since 1996 and is the Founding Chairperson of Communities-in-Schools. She is currently on the State Council to Establish Academic Standards in Nevada.
  