
    Pool Reports by Linda Feldmann, The Christian Science Monitor 



Sent:
Reports:




July 4, 202211:54

In-town pool report 1 - good morning
Good morning from the White House on this glorious (sunny, 83) Fourth. Pool will muster soon for a ride to Ft McNair to meet POTUS and FLOTUS, due to land from Camp David at 1:30 pm, then motorcade back to WH.
Here's the full sked:
EDT
11:50 AM In-Town Pool Call Time
1:30 PM THE PRESIDENT and THE FIRST LADY arrive in Washington, DCFort Lesley J. McNairIn-Town Travel Pool
1:50 PM THE PRESIDENT and THE FIRST LADY arrive at the White HouseNorth PorticoIn-Town Travel Pool
5:00 PM THE PRESIDENT and THE FIRST LADY host a Fourth of July BBQ with military families and deliver remarks to celebrate Independence DaySouth LawnOpen Press (Gather 4:45 PM – Palm Room Doors) [RSVP here by 9:00 AM]
9:09 PM THE PRESIDENT and THE FIRST LADY view the Independence Day fireworks display over the National MallThe White House



July 4, 202213:41

In-town pool 2 - Potus lands Ft McNair
Marine One landed at Fort McNair at 1:30 pm. Potus and FLOTUS stepped out at 134 pm went straight to the Beast. Potus took no questions from pool. Son Hunter, baby Beau, and wife Melissa accompanied, and walked right past the pool toward their vehicle.
Potus in navy blazer, black pants; FLOTUS in blue blazer, white pants.
Motorcade rolling for WH at 1:38 pm.
Per WH, Traveling with the President aboard Marine One en route Fort McNair:

Hunter Biden
Melissa Cohen Biden
Beau Biden
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations
Stephen Goepfert, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the President

Traveling with the President via motorcade en route White House

Hunter Biden
Melissa Cohen Biden
Beau Biden
Jon Finer, Assistant to the President & Principal Deputy National Security Advisor
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations
Stephen Goepfert, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the President




July 4, 202213:56

In-town pool 3 - WH arrival/lunch lid
Motorcade arrived WH at 152 pm after uneventful ride. We stopped on the north side, along circular driveway. Pool could not see first couple entering the WH.
Sign held by bystander near entrance to Ft McNAir: Jews for Abortion Rights
Among bystanders en route were two women, one in Ukrainian dress, holding flags that were half American half Ukrainian.
Lunch lid called at 154 pm until 445 pm, except for those doing preset.



July 4, 202216:56

In-town pool 4 - POTUS remarks delayed
Pool is now gathering at 5:10 pm to go to South Lawn. POTUS remarks will be delayed beyond originally scheduled start time of 5:00 pm. I will provide update on timing when we know.
Remarks, when they happen, will go out live at https://www.whitehouse.gov/live/



July 4, 202217:23

In-town pool 5 - south lawn scene/remarks about to start
Military families are enjoying a bbq picnic at tables across the South Lawn set with blue and red checked tablecloths.
As pool entered, a Military band was performing live rock music on a stage down the east side of the South Lawn.
Some guests are standing/crowding the rope line near the podium where Potus will speak. At 5:20 guests were asked to silence phones.
Soon after, another military band started playing a patriotic march.



July 4, 202217:25

In town pool report 6 - 2 minute warning for remarks
Viewable on livestream --



July 4, 202217:28

In town pool report 7- WH list of attendees/menu
From WH:
In attendance for the President and First Lady's 4th of July BBQ;

Military picnic guests composed of:

Military Families
Joining Forces Partner Organizations
Service members
Veterans
Caregivers
Hidden Helpers, children in military or veteran caregiving families
White House Military Office Staff and family members


Guests of White House Staff and family members

On the menu:

Hamburger/Cheeseburgers
Crispy Battered Fries
Chocolate Chip Cookies


Impossible Burgers
Multigrain Buns
Sweet Potato Fries
Honey Mustard Dipping Sauce
Oatmeal Raisin Cookies


Memphis Style Dry Rubbed Barbeque Chicken
Baked Beans, Corn Bread
Sea Salt Kettle Chips
Lemon Drop Cookies


Baby Back Ribs with Spiced Brown Sugar Glaze
Creamy Slaw
Sweet Potato Chips
Snickerdoodle Cookies

Speaking program:
• Navy Chaplain Lieutenant Chandler Irwin
• The First Lady
• The President
Performing following the President's remarks
• White Ford Bronco, DC-based 90's pop cover band
• Andy Grammer, multi-platinum country-pop song-writer and singer



July 4, 202217:31

In town pool report 8 - remarks begin
First a prayer from military chaplain
Then Dr. Biden spoke, beginning at 529. Potus stood to the left, wearing aviators. She Wished all a happy Fourth of July.
Potus remarks began at 5:31.
Spotted in crowd: Hunter Biden, son Beau, wife Melissa.
National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan



July 4, 202217:43

In town pool report 9- Potus remarks/more color
Check against transcript:
"America is always a work in progress," Potus said.
We've always been tested, but we've never walked away.
America is a project that always says, "we're all in this together."
"Our economy is growing but not without pain…." He describes a nation whose freedoms are "under assault" both here and abroad.
Talk of guns begins at 5:36. "You all heard about what happened today."
"And each day we're reminded, there's nothing guaranteed about our democracy, nothing guaranteed about our way of life and we have to fight for it, defend it"
"I know many Americans look around today and see a divided country and are deeply worried about that fact. I understand. I believe we're more united that we are divided"
Speaks of American optimism.
Remarks end at 5:39. Military band plays God Bless America and other patriotic tunes as Potus works the rope line along edge of driveway, greets attendees, out of earshot of pool.
Potus is wearing blue blazer, white shirt, no tie
FLOTUS is wearing flowery dress, red shoes.



July 4, 202218:14

In town pool report 10 - Potus enters WH
At 6:12 pm, Potus walked back up the driveway, went over to greet the chaplain and family, then went back into White House thru the South Portico door.
Also sighted at picnic: domestic policy adviser Susan Rice



July 4, 202219:28

In-town pool report 11 - Potus back on South Lawn
Pool returned to the South Lawn at 7:15pm to view entertainment. Picnic-goers are seated on blankets in front of the stage (which is on the west side of south lawn, contrary to previous pool report). Andy Grammer, country-pop singer/songwriter, is performing.
At 7:27 pm, POTUS is heading toward the stage.



July 4, 202219:33

In-town pool report 12 - Potus and FLOTUS take the stage
… at 7:30. Potus welcomes everyone to the White House. "Now I'm gonna hand it over to the boss," he says, introducing FLOTUS.
She invites Andy Grammer back to perform one more song. Which he does.
This is going out live at WhiteHouse.gov/live



July 4, 202219:38

In-town pool report 13 - FLOTUS as emcee/POTUS speaks on Highland Park
After Grammer performs, FLOTUS thanks everyone for coming and introduces Potus.
Potus gives update on mass shooting in Illinois. Won't name the suspect.
"We've gotta get this under control"
Moment of silence for the families.
First couple left the stage at 7:37 pm.



July 4, 202220:12

In-town pool report 14 - Potus is still on south lawn
And visiting with folks, out of pool's sight. The latest indication is that Potus will stay out here for the fireworks.
Local cover band White Ford Bronco is now performing.
Another SAO sighting on the lawn: Bruce Reed



July 4, 202220:30

In-town pool report 15- Potus back inside WH
He went back inside about 10 minutes ago, per a WH aide.



July 4, 202221:10

In-town pool report 15 - Potus and FLOTUS on WH balcony
The first couple and family members stepped out onto the lower balcony, overlooking the south lawn, at 9:08 pm.
Fireworks began at 9:09.



July 4, 202221:32

In town pool report 16- fireworks end
Fireworks ended at 9:27 pm
About 30 people viewed fireworks with Potus and FLOTUS on the balcony. Potus walked amongst the guests and chatted during the show.
After fireworks ended, Biden gave a salute to the crowd. And little Beau gave the crowd a wave. Then Potus picked up Beau and swayed to the music. Hunter joined them after a bit, and after a few moments took Beau inside.
Then Dr Biden came back out and gave the crowd a wave.
Potus stepped back into the WH at 9:31.




  