
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate three individuals, announced his intention to appoint fifteen individuals and announced his appointment of one individual. The President intends to nominate Michael P. Socarras to be General Counsel of the Department of the Air Force. He is presently an attorney with Greenberg Traurig, LLP, having previously been a partner with Shook, Hardy and Bacon in Kansas City, Missouri from 1996-2000. Mr. Socarras was an associate with Covington and Burling from 1989-1996. He is a graduate of Brandeis University, and has a J.D. from Yale Law School. The President intends to nominate Eric M. Javits for the rank of Ambassador during his tenure as United States Representative to the Conference on Disarmament. He has been Senior Counsel at Robinson Brog Leinwand Greene Genovese & Gluck, P.C. since 1993. Jarvits was Ambassador designate to Venezuela from May 1989 to Feburary 1990. Previously, he was Senior Partner at Javits, Robinson, Brog, Leinwand & Reich from 1985-1989. He was an attorney with the Firm of Javits & Javits from 1958 to 1963. Originally of New York, Mr. Javits is a graduate of Columbia College and has a J.D. from Columbia Law School.
The President intends to nominate Charles Lester Pritchard for the rank of Ambassador during his tenure as Special Envoy for Four Party Talks. Originally of San Francisco, Mr. Pritchard served the United States Army from 1972-2000, and is a recipient of the Defense Distinguished Service Medal. He was Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for Asian Affairs from October 2000 to February 2001, having previously served as Director for Asian Affairs since June 1996. He was the Deputy Chief Negotiator of the Korean Peace Talks and was a United States Army Attache in Japan from 1995-1996. Mr. Pritchard was the Deputy Chief of Staff for Intelligence from 1993-1995, following his service as Operations Officer for the 500th Military Intelligence Brigade from 1991-1992. He served as Country Director for Japan in the Office of the Secretary of Defense from 1990-1991. He is a graduate of the University of Hawaii, Honolulu, and has a Master's degree from Mercer University.
The President intends to appoint the following four individuals as Member of the Board of Directors of the Federal National Mortgage Association for a term ending on the date of the next annual meeting of the stockholders in 2002: William Robert Harvey of Alabama Molly Hering Bordonaro of Oregon Taylor C. Segue, III of Michigan Victor Henderson Ashe of Tennessee The President intends to appoint the following individuals as Members of the American Battlefield Monuments Commission: Paul X. Kelly of Virginia Frederick M. Franks, Jr. of Pennsylvania Julius E. Becton of Virginia Patrick H. Brady of Washington Antonio Lopez of Tennessee Alan K. Simpson of Wyoming Joseph E. Persico of New York Tom Ridge of Pennsylvania Will H. Tankersley of Alabama Sue E. Turner of Texas Sara A. Sellers of Tennessee The President has appointed Annabelle Thompson Lockhart to be Acting Administrator of the Wage Hour Division.
  