
    1. The President of the United States of America, Gerald R. Ford, and Mrs. Ford made an official visit to Poland July 28-29, 1975, at the invitation of the First Secretary of the Central Committee of the Polish United Workers' Party, Edward Gierek, issued on behalf of the highest authorities of the Polish People's Republic. The President was accompanied by the Secretary of State and Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs, Henry A. Kissinger.
2. During the visit, the President held talks with First Secretary Gierek..
3. Plenary talks were also held with the participation of:
From the American side: The President of the United States of America, Gerald R. Ford; the Secretary of State and Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs, Henry A. Kissinger; Ambassador of the United States of America in Warsaw Richard T. Davies; Deputy Assistant to the President Lt. Gen. Brent Scowcroft; Counselor of the Department of State Helmut Sonnenfeldt; Assistant Secretary of State for European Affairs Arthur A. Hartman; Senior Staff Member of the National Security Council A. Denis Clift, and Director Nicholas G. Andrews of the Office of Eastern European Affairs of the Department of State.
From the Polish side: The First Secretary of the Central Committee of the Polish United Workers' Party, Edward Gierek; the Chairman of the Council of State, Henryk Jablonski; the Chairman of the Council of Ministers, Piotr Jaroszewicz; the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Stefan Olszowski, Member of the Secretariat and Head of the Foreign Department of the Central Committee of the Polish United Workers' Party Ryszard Frelek; Director of the Chancellery of the Secretariat of the Central Committee of the Polish United Workers' Party Jerzy Waszczuk; First Deputy Chairman of the Planning Commission of the Council of Ministers Kazimierz Secomski; Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Romuald Spasowski; Undersecretary of State in the Office of the Council of Ministers and press spokesman of the Government Wlodzimierz Janiurek; Ambassador of the Polish People's Republic in Washington Witold Trampczynski; Director of Department in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Jan Kinast.
4. The Secretary of State and Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs, Henry A. Kissinger, held talks with Minister of Foreign Affairs Stefan Olszowski.
5. President Ford and the persons accompanying him viewed Warsaw and acquainted themselves with its reconstruction and development. The President of the City, Jerzy Majowski, accompanied them.
6. On the second day of the visit the President of the United States of America went to Oswiecim (Auschwitz), where he laid a wreath at the International Monument and signed the Memorial Book.
7. President Ford visited Krakow. He was greeted in the central marketplace by the President of the City of Krakow, Jerzy Pekala. The President of the United States made a short speech to the assembled citizens. The President also visited the American Children's Hospital in Poland, at Prokocim near Krakow, which was built with the support of American funds.
8. The discussions and meetings which were held between the President and the First Secretary and their advisers took place in a friendly and constructive atmosphere and were characterized by mutual striving further to develop and strengthen relations between the United States and Poland. They reviewed U.S.Polish relations and discussed international matters of mutual interest.
9. As a result of their talk's, the President of the United States of America, Gerald R. Ford, and the First Secretary of the Central Committee of the Polish United Workers' Party, Edward Gierek, signed a Joint Statement on July 28.
10. President and Mrs. Ford expressed their gratitude to First Secretary and Mrs. Gierek for the cordial hospitality arranged for them. They were grateful to all the Poles who gave them such a warm reception, traditional in Poland.
11. The President and the First Secretary expressed their conviction and desire for future visits at the highest level between the leaders of the two countries which would strengthen the U.S.-Polish relations still more. It was agreed that specific arrangements would be made through diplomatic channels.
12. Warsaw, July 29, 1975.
GERALD FORD
President of the United States of America
EDWARD GIEREK
First Secretary of the Central Committee of the Polish United Workers' Party
  