
    RESISTING THE AMERICAN PEOPLE: Senate Democrats have decided to obstruct President Donald J. Trump's Administration, and the American people, by refusing to confirm qualified nominations.

Democrats in the Senate have delayed crucial appointments made by President Trump in an attempt to obstruct the will of the American people and the President's agenda.

Of the 197 Presidential nominations to agencies, the Senate has only confirmed 48.
Only 2 of President Trump's 23 judicial nominations have actually been confirmed by the Senate.


Democrats in the Senate have shown they are willing to break irresponsibly with tradition that allows a President to choose his own appointees in a timely fashion.

Less than a month away from the August recess, the Senate has confirmed only 23 percent of President Trump's 216 nominations.
By the first August recess during President Obama's first term, the Senate had confirmed 69 percent of his 454 nominations.



UNPRECEDENTED OBSTRUCTION: In an effort to prevent President Trump from following through on the policies for which the American people voted, Senate Democrats are putting his nominations through time-consuming parliamentary procedures not seen by the previous Administration.

Democrats in the Senate have allowed only 10 percent of President Trump's confirmations to happen by voice vote, while more than 90 percent of Obama's were confirmed by a simple voice vote at this point in 2009.
In just a few months, Democrats have delayed President Trump's nominations by going through the burdensome cloture process 30 times.

By the first August recess of his Administration, President Obama only had 8 cloture votes on his nominations.



DAMAGING THE GOVERNMENT: The blatant obstruction of President Trump's nominations threatens key aspects of the Government, including national security, by leaving positions vacant.

Key positions in the Departments of Defense and Veterans Affairs are vacant because of obstructionism by Senate Democrats, damaging national security.

The Department of Defense has seen only 6 of President Trump's 22 nominations confirmed. Positions waiting confirmation votes include:

Deputy Secretary of Defense
Principal Deputy under the Secretary of Defense
Assistant Secretary of Defense




Senate Democrats are attempting to hamstring President Trump's law-and-order agenda by confirming less than 20 percent of his nominations to the Department of Justice and less than half of his nominations to the Department of Homeland Security.

The Department of Justice has only 3 of President Trump's 19 nominations confirmed. Positions waiting confirmation include:

Solicitor General of the United States
Assistant Attorney General


The Department of Homeland Security has only 3 of President Trump's nominations confirmed. Positions waiting confirmation include:

Director of the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services




Even as the President pushes to reform the healthcare system so it works for the American people, only one third of his nominations to Health and Human Services are confirmed.

The Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) has only 3 of President Trump's 11 nominations confirmed. Positions waiting confirmation include:

Deputy Secretary of HHS





QUALIFIED NOMINATIONS: President Trump has nominated qualified individuals to key positions, but their confirmations have been delayed by obstructionism in the Senate.

Patrick M. Shanahan is nominated to be Deputy Defense Secretary at the Department of Defense.

Dubbed by The New York Times as "Mr. Fix It" who would provide "a good complement to the strategic expertise of Defense Secretary Jim Mattis."
Ran Boeing's missile-defense business.


Noel J. Francisco is nominated to be Solicitor General of the United States at the Department of Justice.

A former clerk to Antonin Scalia who has argued before the Supreme Court.
He served as Associate Counsel to the President from 2001 to 2003, and he was Deputy Assistant Attorney General in the Office of Legal Counsel from 2003 to 2005.


Lee Francis Cissna is nominated to be Director of the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) at the Department of Homeland Security.

Served as an attorney at USCIS and as an immigration policy director at the Department of Homeland Security.
Graduated from Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Georgetown Law School.


Kevin Hassett is nominated to be Chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers (CEA).

Forty-four economists from across the political spectrum sent a letter to the Senate supporting Hassett's nomination.
Even economists serving in the Obama administration agreed that "the Nation would be well served if Kevin Hassett is confirmed."
For the past ten CEA chair nominations, the time waiting for confirmation averaged 8 days. Hassett has already waited twenty-seven days.


  