
    Tribal Leaders Group to Serve as Advisory Body
Nevada -- Hillary Clinton's Nevada Chair Rory Reid today announced the formation of the campaign's Nevada Native American Leadership Council, a group of Nevada tribal leaders united in support of Senator Clinton's bid for the presidency. The Council will serve as an advisory body for the campaign in Nevada regarding Indian Country, and play an active role in reaching out and organizing Native American communities for the January 19th Democratic caucus.
The group of founding council members introduced today includes tribal leaders, administrators and activists who are leaders in Indian Country throughout Nevada.
"I am honored to be a part of this Leadership Council and to support Senator Clinton," said Genia Williams, Chairperson of the Walker River Paiute Tribe. "She clearly understands that each tribe is different and a sovereign entity, and recognizes the importance of the government-to-government relationship with the tribes. Senator Clinton has reached out personally to Nevada's tribes to discuss issues of concern to each sovereign nation. She is the most experienced and prepared candidate in the race, and understands the unique challenges facing Indian Country. This is evidenced by her co-sponsorship of the American Indian Health Improvement Act and many other actions. I am excited to support Hillary Clinton and am confident she will be an outstanding president."
"We are thrilled to have the support of this outstanding group of tribal leaders," said Reid. "These individuals bring to the campaign a wealth of knowledge not only of the issues facing Indian Country, which is essential to the Nevada landscape, but also deep roots in the state to help connect Native Americans with the caucus process. These individuals will be invaluable counselors and supporters for Senator Clinton's efforts in the state."
The founding members of Hillary Clinton's Nevada Native American Leadership Council, announced today, are:

Arlan Melendez, Chairman, Reno-Sparks Indian Colony; member, U.S. Civil Rights Commission
Davis Gonzales, Chairman, Te-Moak Tribe of Western Shoshone Indians of Nevada
Genia Williams, Chairperson, Walker River Paiute Tribe
Karen Crutcher, Chairperson, Ft. McDermitt Paiute-Shoshone Tribes
Steve Frank, Chairman, Summit Lake Paiute Tribe
Kyle Prior, Chairman, Duck Valley Shoshone Paiute Tribes
Wanda Batchelor, Chairperson, Stewart Community Council of the Washoe Tribe
Rochanne Downs, Vice Chair, Fallon Paiute Shoshone Tribes
Ed Naranjo, Vice Chair, Federated Tribes of the Goshute Reservation
Norm Harry, Former (three-term) Tribal Chairman, Pyramid Lake Paiute Tribe
Kenneth Richardson, Health Director, Walker River Paiute Tribe
Janice Brown, Democratic Activist and Native American Advocate
Miranda Quintero, Vice Chair, Walker River Paiute Tribe

  