
    NOMINATIONS SENT TO THE SENATE:
Kurt G. Alme, of Montana, to be United States Attorney for the District of Montana for the term of four years, vice Michael W. Cotter, resigned.
Annemarie Carney Axon, of Alabama, to be United States District Judge for the Northern District of Alabama, vice Sharon Lovelace Blackburn, retired.
Peter Henry Barlerin, of Colorado, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Cameroon.
John J. Bartrum, of Indiana, to be an Assistant Secretary of Health and Human Services, vice Ellen Gloninger Murray.
Liles Clifton Burke, of Alabama, to be United States District Judge for the Northern District of Alabama, vice C. Lynwood Smith, retired.
Stephen Censky, of Missouri, to be Deputy Secretary of Agriculture, vice Krysta L. Harden, resigned.
Donald Q. Cochran, Jr., of Tennessee, to be United States Attorney for the Middle District of Tennessee for the term of four years, vice David Rivera, resigned.
Russell M. Coleman, of Kentucky, to be United States Attorney for the Western District of Kentucky for the term of four years, vice David J. Hale, resigned.
Peter E. Deegan, Jr., of Iowa, to be United States Attorney for the Northern District of Iowa for the term of four years, vice Kevin W. Techau, resigned.
Michael Dourson, of Ohio, to be Assistant Administrator for Toxic Substances of the Environmental Protection Agency, vice James J. Jones.
J. Cody Hiland, of Arkansas, to be United States Attorney for the Eastern District of Arkansas for the term of four years, vice Christopher R. Thyer, resigned.
Daniel J. Kaniewski, of Minnesota, to be Deputy Administrator for National Preparedness, Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security, vice Timothy W. Manning.
Joseph Kernan, of Florida, to be Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence, vice Marcel John Lettre, II.
Marc Krickbaum, of Iowa, to be United States Attorney for the Southern District of Iowa for the term of four years, vice Nicholas A. Klinefeldt, resigned.
Brian J. Kuester, of Oklahoma, to be United States Attorney for the Eastern District of Oklahoma for the term of four years, vice Mark F. Green, resigned.
Hester Maria Peirce, of Ohio, to be a Member of the Securities and Exchange Commission for a term expiring June 5, 2020, vice Luis Aguilar, resigned.
Guy B. Roberts, of Virginia, to be an Assistant Secretary of Defense, vice Andrew Charles Weber.
R. Trent Shores, of Oklahoma, to be United States Attorney for the Northern District of Oklahoma for the term of four years, vice Danny Chappelle Williams, Sr., resigned.
WITHDRAWALS SENT TO THE SENATE:
James Clinger, of Pennsylvania, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation for a term of six years, vice Jeremiah O'Hear Norton, resigned, which was sent to the Senate on June 19, 2017.
James Clinger, of Pennsylvania, to be Chairperson of the Board of Directors of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation for a term of five years, vice Martin J. Gruenberg, term expiring, which was sent to the Senate on June 19, 2017.
  