
    Pool Reports by Nikki Schwab, Daily Mail



Sent:
Reports:




July 7, 202009:44

Pool Report No. 1 - Peter Navarro gaggle 
Good morning from the White House – I'm your print pooler today. I was swabbed for COVID-19 at the 9:30 a.m. call time.
On the president's schedule today, a “National Dialogue on Safely Reopening Schools” at 3 p.m., which will be livestreamed.
Earlier today in the driveway, White House trade adviser Peter Navarro spoke to for just under 15 minutes about hydroxychloroquine.
He talked about the Detroit hospital doctors filing an emergency use authorization for the drug. He said he'd consider taking it if he started developing COVID-19 symptoms. And he continued to refer to coronavirus as the “China virus.” He wouldn't comment on what would be in the E.O. aimed at China.
Here's a transcript:
“Yesterday, the four doctors at the Detroit hospital system, led by William O'Neill, filed a request for an emergency use authorization for the medicine known as hydroxychloroquine. The request to the FDA was for three things - one for early treatment use in a hospital setting. No. 2, treatment, between a doctor and his patient in an outpatient setting and three, not just as a therapeutic, but also as a possible prophylaxis for preventative use.
"This request to the FDA comes on the heels of the publication of their study in the Journal of Infectious Diseases, last week that showed astonishing 50 percent reduction in the in the mortality rate for patients taking hydroxychloroquine.
But importantly, the study was based on what's called early treatment and the science of this is pretty simple. If you, if you look at it, out of a 14 day arc of the virus from the beginning of symptoms to the time you might be in an ICU setting on a ventilator, the first seven days are critical.
They're the days, which may have a fever, a dry cough, possibly a profound sense of fatigue. At that point your lungs are still intact and the virus is not appreciably spread to the rest of your organs Hydroxychloroquine ... works in a therapeutic way by raising the alkalinity of your cells which slows the replication of the virus, and also can kill the virus.
It also has an anti-inflammatory effect, which is why it's used for rheumatoid arthritis and and drug can also therefore help manage what's called a cytokine storm.
So, what what's going to happen now is that the FDA is going to consider this. This comes on the heels of two decisions by the FDA over the last several months to shut down hydroxycholorquine.
The first was what's called a blackbox warning.
The second was a withdrawal of the EUA.
And what I can tell you, as, as someone who, who works with the Health and Human Services Department and FEMA, to manage the stockpiles of hydroxychloroquine.
The FDA decisions that they made, which I think were precipitous, and based on bad science, had a tremendously negative effect on two things - one is the ability for American people to use this medicine to protect themselves and two the ability for hospitals, like the Detroit hospital system, to recruit patients for the kind of randomized blind clinical trials that everybody wants to settle once and for all the questions of efficacy and safety.
If you look carefully at the FDA's letter rejecting emergency use authorization, here's the important point, I dont' want to be critical of the FDA, but I do want to point out that that their decision was based on two types of studies.
One set of studies that are poorly designed and basically doomed to failure.
Another set of studies where, if you look carefully at the data it's very clear that these were late-term studies where the medicine would not work.
The important point here is the Detroit doctors are bringing back to the FDA, a clear case for early treatment. So that's what's on the table right now. So, as the president likes to say, let's see what happens.
But I can tell you this that if the results of the Detroit study are confirmed in later studies, President Trump was absolutely right that hydroxychloroquine save lives.
And if, in fact, early treatment use can lead to a 50% reduction in mortality that's tens of thousands of American lives that are at stake, by a phenomenon which I call the hydroxy hysteria. It's, it's the politicization of this medicine, by mainstream media and portions of the medical community that have somehow made this a battle between President Trump and them and created this undue fear and hysteria over a drug that's been used for over 60 years relatively safety and is regularly prescribed to pregnant women if they go into a Malaria zone. The idea that this is a dangerous drug it's just silly but if you ask the American people based on the media's coverage of it, that's kind of the state of play right.
So let me stop there, happy to answer any questions about hydroxychloroquine, but nothing else.”
Q: In the Henry Ford study coronavirus patients were also taking steroids at twice the rate of non-coronavirus patients ... so why haven't you spent the last three, four five minutes talking about steroids?
“Within the 24 hour period that study was released it was also a study that came out in Mount Sinai that showed a similar reduction in fatality rate. There's over 60 studies that we've looked at on the spreadsheet, 50 of them support the therapeutic prophylactic use hydroxychloroquine, the 11 that don't, a good number of those are discredited studies like the one that was done on veterans, just a horribly designed study. The Brazil study was never really designed to kill. The Lancet study, I don't know if you covered it, but if you did cover it, you got suckered. ... All I'm saying here is give hydroxy a chance. And please don't contribute tohydroxy hysteria because it if's prescribed under the supervision of a doctor, the odds that it can harm you are way, way smaller than the ICU.”
Q: Have you thought about taking it yourself to prevent getting the coronavirus?
“Let me talk about the science of prophylaxis. You might just read the 2005 Journal of Virology article, which is the seed where this all started. They describe two effects, there is the alkalinity effect I described, which is taken within the cell at the cellular level, it raises the pH from mildly acid to mildly alkaline to an environment that kills, but there's also what's called a blocking effect. If you think about the virus itself, the reason it's called coronavirus, although we prefer China virus, is it has these spikes proteins that come out.And so, at the cellular level you have what's called the h2 receptors. And so, what the virus evily does to get into your cells is these spiked proteins essentially lock into the h2 receptors and once that's done the virus is transferred into the cellular level.
Now, what hydroxychloroquine does is it de-sugars the h2 receptors. And once the h2 receptors are de-sugared, it becomes much more difficult for the spiked proteins to essentially lock in, and that's where the prophylaxis comes from.
If you look at, I mean, again, this has become a highly politicized, but India uses this widely prophylaxis. There's, there's a number of studies which point to this actually working.I myself in terms of how I - I don't take any medicines at all. But if I were to show any kind of symptoms.”
Q: That's when you would take it?
“I would first ask my doctor, whether it's appropriate. And then, I wouldn't hesitate to take it. So that's kind of where I'm at.”
Q: The President obviously took it for a couple of weeks, we learned that he was around the governor of South Dakota ... is it something you think the president should take again?
“I think that's what important here is to understand the science. It's clear that the science says that there's a high probability that this has prophylactic benefits so that if you're a health care worker in a hot zone, this is something that you would strongly consider taking. I do social distancing and I don't have contact with a lot of folks. The president, I mean, it's a good decision.So I think my message to you as journalists, this hydroxy hysteria, I think we have to acknowledge the fact that once President Trump said that this was something that could be helpful, it set off this kind of firestorm debate. And as I watched the coverage, this whole debate, as these studies came out, as an econometrician statistician, I was just horrified by the reporting.”
Q: Well wasn't it the president who set off the firestorm by recommending people take a drug that was not proven to work?
“There's so much wrong with that question I don't know where to begin.” Q: Was there proof at the time that it worked?
“But see that's where you're wrong. You got your hands in your pocket, go put your hands on the 50 studies and read them carefully and when you come away from that exercise, you come back and tell me that it definitely [didn't work.] ...
Because we have a war on our hands, I want to avoid this, this politics ... just go and look, just go read the studies, take them with a grain of salt. Look at the facts on this filing with the FDA. And just understand, if you or a loved one your life could be saved if that study was actually right.”
Q: Is the president considering taking it again?
“You'll have to ask the president.”



July 7, 202012:49

Pool Report No. 2 - lunch lid until 1:45 p.m. 
At 12:47 p.m. the White House called a lunch lid until 1:45 p.m.
Surgeon General Jerome Adams was spotted in the White House driveway at 10:10 a.m., but wouldn't stop to answer questions.
The White House has been livestreaming the other panels about school reopening here: https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44f...



July 7, 202013:59

Pool Report No. 3 - Kellyanne Conway gaggle 
Counselor to the President Kellyanne Conway gaggled with reporters for 25 minutes on the White House driveway.
Press Secretary Kayleigh McEnany is out doing TV hits now, so your pooler anticipates another gaggle.
Here's the first Q from the Kellyanne gaggle to get your started:
Response to Mary Trump book:"Well, he's not her patient, he's her uncle. And I know firsthand the way the President feels about his brother Fred Trump Jr. ... and he has been very public about his commitment to ending drug abuse in our nation because of the way he witnesses he struggles with alcoholism.He's always complimentary of his brother privately and publicly in terms of - he was the heir to the family business. He was so handsome, such a force of nature, a great guy, so smart, and that the President has been very clear in private and public settings I've seen him go like this to kids actually in a room. Privately that - you don't touch alcohol, drugs, tobacco, he's never had any of that because he saw what it did to his brother who he loved very much.As for books generally, obviously they're not fact checked, nobody's under oath. I know there's always this rush to slap credibility on whoever's getting the president that day.Your job is to get the story not get the president. So thank you for doing that.And I think family matters are family matters.And just because she's a psychologist - I notice your networks and print outlets like to cover any number of people who aren't medically trained in their medical diagnoses of the president.... As I say I like many of you, I don't like to get involved with people's family business. I certainly wouldn't if I was troubled and living in a glass house as many people these days seem to think things are their business, but we'll settle that some other time.More TK



July 7, 202014:13

Pool Report No. 4 - Kayleigh McEnany gaggle 
White House press secretary Kayleigh McEnany did a lightning round with reporters on the White House driveway. It's now climbed to a piping hot 84 degrees.
Reaction to Mary Trump book:"It's a book of falsehoods and that's about it."
Reaction to Brazilian President Bolsonaro testing positive for COVID-19:"I haven't spoken to the president about that but we wish him well and a speedy recovery."
Q: Do you anticipate they'll talk to each other in the next day or two? "No announcements on their future conversations, but we do wish him well."
Q: Why is it a good idea for the president to go to Miami on Friday since cases are so high and medical resources are already so limited? "The president has an important message to share. We've been traveling all around the country. We'll be in New Hampshire on Saturday. We believe we can do so safely."
Q: But he has a fundraiser on Friday - is that really important?"We've had several fundraisers. We've had important messages to share. We've been all around the country and we've done so safely."
Q: Is the White House worried about more Secret Service agents getting sick if they're traveling?"We've traveled, we've done so safely and we'll continue to do it."
Q: The Mary Trump book just came out (goes through how she calls him a narcissist, etc.)"It's ridiculous, absurd allegations that have absolute no bearing in truth. Have yet to see the book, but it is a book of falsehoods."



July 7, 202014:24

Pool Report No. 5 - gaggle video links 
C-SPAN has now posted videos of both the gaggles.
Here's Kellyanne Conway: https://www.c-span.org/video/?473683-101/kellyanne-conway-speaks-reporters
Here's Kayleigh McEnany: https://www.c-span.org/video/?473683-102/white-house-press-secretary-spe...
And since your pooler didn't fully transcribe the Conway gaggle, just a few more things of note.* She confirmed Friday's trip to Miami (which McEnany also spoke about)* She spent a lot of the gaggle discussing campaign strategy, though dodged when asked about what voting blocs Trump's stances on Bubba Wallace and the Confederate flag attract, saying she was personally concerned about how the American flag is being treated.* When your pooler asked if she would ever move back to the campaign she answered, “So I am where the president would like me to be.”* She suggested other, older Republican lawmakers i.e. Chuck Grassley would likely skip the convention over COVID-19 health concerns.



July 7, 202015:11

Pool Report No. 6 - schools reopening event details 
Pool entered the East Room at 2:54 p.m. The meeting was still getting set up. Dr. Birx and HHS Secretary Azar are both wearing masks. A number of other participants are not. Education Secretary DeVos is among those not wearing a mask. At 3:05 p.m. Vice President Pence and Karen Pence arrived, sans mask. We're awaiting POTUS and FLOTUS.
Participants are seated around a rectangular table, but there's a small audience along one side of the room that includes CDC Director Redfield.
The event is being livestreamed so I'll just be sending color.
Judd Deere passes along these details:
Today, President Donald J. Trump, First Lady Melania Trump, Vice President Mike Pence, and Second Lady Karen Pence, will lead a roundtable discussion on the Safe Reopening of America's Schools. They will be joined by several Administration officials, education professionals, teachers, and students from around the country to discuss best practices to reopen schools safely with respect to the holistic health and continued learning of America's students.
The following individuals are expected to attend: 
The White HousePresident Donald J. TrumpFirst Lady Melania TrumpVice President Mike PenceSecond Lady Karen PenceKellyanne Conway, Assistant to the President & Senior Counselor Brooke Rollins, Assistant to the President & Acting Director of the Domestic Policy CouncilAmbassador Deborah Birx, M.D., White House Coronavirus Task Force CoordinatorKristan Nevins, Assistant to the President & Cabinet SecretaryEmma Doyle, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff for Policy, Office of the First LadyDoug Hoelscher, Deputy Assistant to the President & Director of Intergovernmental AffairsWilliam Crozer, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Intergovernmental AffairsNicholas Pottebaum, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Intergovernmental AffairsJames Redstone, Special Assistant to the President for Domestic PolicyTucker Obenshain, Associate Director of External Affairs, Office of the Vice President
Trump AdministrationSecretary Betsy DeVos, U.S. Department of EducationSecretary Alex Azar, U.S. Department of Health & Human ServicesDr. Robert Redfield, Centers for Disease Control & Prevention, U.S. Department of Health and Human ServicesJohnny C. Taylor, Jr., Chairman, President's Board of Advisors on Historically Black Colleges & UniversitiesEmily Dickens, Chief of Staff, President's Board of Advisors on Historically Black Colleges & UniversitiesFrank Brogan, Assistant Secretary for Elementary & Secondary Education, U.S. Department of EducationDr. Elinore McCance-Katz, Assistant Secretary for Mental Health & Substance Use, U.S. Department of Health and Human Services
External ParticipantsGovernor Mike Parson, MissouriPenny Schwinn, Commissioner, Tennessee Department of Education, TennesseeLisa Piercey, Commissioner, Tennessee Department of Health, TennesseeDr. Sally Goza, President, American Academy of Pediatrics, Washington, D.C.Finis E. St. John IV, Chancellor, University of Alabama System, AlabamaDr. Sidney McPhee, President, Middle Tennessee State University, TennesseeDr. Sue Ellspermann, President, Ivy Tech Community College, IndianaNicole Washington, Trustee, Florida A&M University, FloridaJeff Bearden, Superintendent, Forsyth County School District, GeorgiaSusan Albertson, Teacher, Blessed Sacrament School, Washington, D.C.Delanie McDonald, Student, Middle Tennessee State University, TennesseeNancy Aichholz, School Board President, Indian Hill School District, OhioPatrick Daly, Principal, St. Vincent de Paul High School, California Bradley Weller, Teacher, Shippensburg Area School District, Pennsylvania Cathy Slusher, Parent, Harrisonburg, Virginia Jenny Beth Martin, Parent, Woodstock, Georgia Cameron Vaughn, Student, St. Vincent de Paul High School, California Margie Vandeven, Commissioner, Missouri Department of Education Stephen Smith, Chairman, Middle Tennessee State Board of Trustees, TennesseePhil Kerpen, President, American Commitment, Washington, D.C. Lisa Bricker, Teacher, Poudre School District, Colorado Adriana Rios, Teacher, St. Vincent de Paul High School, California Rafael Velez, Parent Board Chairman, St. Vincent de Paul High School, CaliforniaMacie Clements, Student, Virginia Polytechnic Institute & State University, VirginiaNicole Martin, Student, Etowah High School, Georgia Nicholas Martin, Student, Etowah High School, Georgia



July 7, 202015:49

Pool Report No. 7 - opening details 
The president and FLOTUS entered the East Room at 3:12 p.m. They spoke first, with Melania Trump mentioning her “Be Best” initiative, followed by the Pences.
After Missouri Gov. Mike Parson spoke, President Trump joked, “And you won't be changing the name St. Louis, will you?”
Google tells your pooler that the city is named for Louis IX of France.
Kellyanne Conway said the message today was “all children matter.” She was talking about the digital divide.
More TK



July 7, 202016:38

Pool Report No. 8 - event concludes, no questions 
As the event wrapped, the president knocked Harvard for doing online classes for the year.
“They ought to be ashamed of themselves,” Trump said.
He and the first lady left at 4:35 p.m., ignoring questions about Mary Trump's book, the Brazilian president's COVID-19 diagnosis and whether Barron would be heading back to school.



July 7, 202017:18

Pool Report No. 9 - travel/photo lid 
The White House has called a travel/photo lid at 5:17 p.m.
Have a great night, everyone!




  