
    Pool Reports by Zach Montague, The New York Times 



Sent:
Reports:




July 9, 2023 08:19 EDT

Travel pool report #1 — Gordons Pond departure
Good morning. We've got a good weather call despite some looming showers and gray skies, so the pool is headed to be swept and expecting POTUS to lift from Gordons Pond soon after this morning.


July 9, 2023 09:43 EDT

Travel pool report #2 — wheels up in Rehoboth
POTUS arrived at Gordons Pond at 9:35 am ET in some light rain. Marine One was wheels up and away at 9:40. 


July 9, 2023 10:01 EDT

Travel pool report #2a — additional details
From the White House:
Traveling with the President aboard Marine One en route to Dover Air Force Base:
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations
Handing off to the supplemental pool picking up in Dover. Have a great Sunday. 




Pool Reports below by Jonathan Lemire, Politico 



Sent:
Reports:




July 9, 2023 09:07 EDT

Foreign Travel Pool 1: Checking in from Dover
Greetings from your foreign travel pool, which met at JBA early this morning and took a deadhead flight on AF1 with staff to Dover Air Force Base.
We are now awaiting POTUS' arrival and then we are off to London to begin his trip to Europe. A reminder of today's schedule:
9:30 AM THE PRESIDENT departs Rehoboth Beach, Delaware en route to Dover, Delaware Rehoboth Beach, Delaware Out-of-Town Pool
10:00 AM THE PRESIDENT departs Dover, Delaware en route to London Stansted Airport, Stansted,United Kingdom Dover Air Force Base, Dover, Delaware Supplemental Pool
BST
10:10 PM THE PRESIDENT departs London Stansted Airport, Stansted, United Kingdom en route to Winfield House Landing Zone,London United Kingdom London Stansted Airport, Stansted, United Kingdom Open Press
10:35 PM THE PRESIDENT arrives at Winfield House Landing Zone, London, United Kingdom Winfield House Landing Zone, London, United Kingdom Supplemental Pool 


July 9, 2023 10:07 EDT

Foreign Travel Pool 2: POTUS arrives Dover
M1 was wheels down at 9:57. The president stepped off the helicopter five minutes later and slowly walked to Air Force One. POTUS, who was not wearing a tie and appeared to not be sporting socks with his sneakers, waved to the pool but did not approach or respond to shouted questions
He boarded the plane using the lower staircase at 10:03. 


July 9, 2023 10:15 EDT

Foreign Travel Pool 3: Wheels up to London
AF1 was wheels up at 10:16 en route to London, United Kingdom
National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan and Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre are expected to gaggle during the flight. It will be streamed.
And from the WH:
Greeting the President upon arrival at Dover Air Force Base:
Colonel W. Chris McDonald, Commander, Dover Air Force Base
Traveling with the President aboard Air Force One en route to London Stansted Airport, Stansted, United Kingdom:
Secretary Antony Blinken, Department of State Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs Jen O'Malley Dillon, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations Karine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press Secretary Ben LaBolt, Assistant to the President & Director of Communications Stefanie Feldman, Assistant to the President & Staff Secretary Ambassador Rufus Gifford, Chief of Protocol of the United States Ryan Montoya, Deputy Assistant to the President & Director of Scheduling & Advance Curtis Ried, Deputy Assistant to the President & NSC Chief of Staff & Executive Secretary Ashley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office Operations Amanda Sloat, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for Europe Sarah Ladislaw, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for Climate Carlyn Reichel, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for Speechwriting & Strategic Initiatives Charlie Fromstein, NSC Director for Visits Ariana Berengaut, Senior Advisor to the National Security Advisor 


July 9, 2023 21:46 BST

Foreign Travel Pool 4: Wheels down UK
AF1 was wheels down at London Stansted Airport at 9:44 pm local time (five hours ahead of Washington). It was an uneventful, largely smooth flight.
Jake Sullivan and Karine Jean-Pierre gaggled for 32 minutes on the flight, let me know if there were any issues with the livestream. The highlights: the revelation that POTUS had a call with President Erdogan of Turkey during the flight - the two men will talk further on the sidelines of NATO, per Sullivan - as well as a mid-gaggle birthday cupcake delivery to the legendary Steve Holland of Reuters.
There were no other visitors to the press cabin 


July 9, 2023 21:59 BST

Foreign Travel Pool 5: Lift to Central London
POTUS stepped off AF1 at 9:53 pm into the pleasantly cool British night. He spoke briefly with the greeters (listed below) and then headed toward a waiting M1 without even a look at the pool.
The pool is now boarding our own helicopters and will be lifting shortly. We will not have eyes on M1 taking off. Our destination: the landing zone for the Winfield House, which is the residence of the U.S. Ambassador to the UK and where POTUS will be spending the night.
From the WH:
Greeting the President upon arrival at London Stansted Airport, Stansted, United Kingdom:
Jane Hartley, Ambassador of the United States to the United Kingdom Jennifer Tolhurst, Lord-Lieutenant of Essex Karen Pierce DCMG, Ambassador of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland to the United States 


July 9, 2023 22:46 BST

Foreign Travel Pool 6: Winfield House
M1 touched down on the beautifully manicured lawn of the Winfield House at 10:36, a few minutes after the press Nighthawk helicopter did.
POTUS waved to the pool but did not respond to shouted questions about Sweden's bid for NATO membership or his call with President Erdogan of Turkey. He then strode into the well-appointed ambassador's residence at 10:40. He will spend the night here.
From the WH:
Traveling with the President aboard Marine One en route to Winfield House Landing Zone, London, United Kingdom:
Secretary Antony Blinken, Department of State Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs Jen O'Malley Dillon, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations 


July 9, 2023 22:51 BST

Foreign Travel Pool 7: Lid
The WH called a lid at here in London at 10:51 pm.
My thanks to the rest of the pool. Have a good night, all. 




Pool Reports below by Tyler Pager, The Washington Post 



Sent:
Reports:




July 9, 202316:15 ADT

In-town pool report #1: AF1 gaggle in 5 minutes
Hi all,
Passing this along from the White House:
Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre and National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan will gaggle aboard Air Force One at 3:18 PM EDT. 



  