
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate four individuals and appoint six individuals to serve in his Administration.
The President intends to nominate Ambrose L. Schwallie, of South Carolina, to be a Member of the Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board, for a five-year term expiring 10/18/13. Mr. Schwallie previously served as Chief Executive Officer of Distributed Energy Systems. Prior to this, he served as President of the Defense Business Unit of Washington Group International, Inc. Earlier in his career, he served as President and CEO of Westinghouse Savannah River Company. Mr. Schwallie received his bachelor's degree and master's degree from Ohio State University.
The President intends to nominate Maria Cino, of Virginia, to be a Member of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation (Small Business Representative), for the remainder of a three-year term expiring 12/17/10.
The President intends to nominate the following individuals to be Members of the National Security Education Board, for a term of four years:
Mark J. Gerencser, of New Jersey; David H. McIntyre, of Texas.
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the Arctic Research Commission:
Michele Longo Eder, of Oregon, (Private Industry Representative), for the remainder of a four-year term expiring 02/26/12;
Helvi K. Sandvik, of Alaska, (Private Industry Representative), for the remainder of a four-year term expiring 07/29/11;
Virgil L. Sharpton, of Alaska, (Academic Representative), for the remainder of a four-year term expiring 02/26/11;
Charles J. Vörösmarty, of New Hampshire, (Academic Representative), for the remainder of a four-year term expiring 02/26/12;
Warren M. Zapol, of Massachusetts, (Academic Representative), for the remainder of a four-year term expiring 02/26/12.
The President intends to appoint Mark R. Dybul, of Florida, to be a Member of the Board of Trustees of the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars (Government Representative), for the remainder of a six-year term expiring 10/23/10.
  