
    HARRISBURG, PA -- U.S. Senator John McCain's presidential campaign today announced its Pennsylvania Small Business Leaders for McCain coalition chairs. Several Pennsylvania small business owners endorsed John McCain's economic plan today, joining business leaders across the country who have praised John McCain's jobs-first plan to grow the economy as president.
"John McCain understands that small businesses are the backbone of Pennsylvania's economy, and his agenda is one that will create more jobs and opportunities for our state," said Bruce Hottle, President of Eagle Concrete Products in Somerset, PA. "In order to get this economy back on track, John McCain will keep income and investment tax rates low and pursue tax reform that supports the wage-earners and job creators who make this economy run. Barack Obama's record of supporting tax increases for those earning as little $32,000 proves that he lacks an understanding of the challenges facing families and small business owners in Pennsylvania."
Karen Deklinski, Owner of Perfectly Pennsylvania in Harrisburg, PA, said, "Providing affordable health care is as much a concern for small business owners as it is to our employees. John McCain's plan addresses these concerns by offering every individual and family a large tax credit to buy their health care so their health insurance is theirs to keep, even when they move or change jobs."
Today in Denver, Colorado John McCain announced his Jobs for America economic plan, kicking off five days of economic themed activity in critical battleground states. During his visit to Western Pennsylvania this week, John McCain will continue to discuss his comprehensive blueprint that will create millions of good American jobs, ensure our nation's energy security, get the government's budget and spending practices in order, and bring relief to American consumers.
AMONG THE PENNSYLVANIA SMALL BUSINESS LEADERS FOR MCCAIN:
John Brinson, Lehigh Valley Racquet and Fitness, Allentown
Maria Casey, M.L. Lyon Inc., Schuylkill County
Karen Deklinski, Perfectly Pennsylvania Gift Store, Harrisburg
Theodore DelGaizo, Main Line Engineering Exton
Steven Ettien, Diamondback Technology Solutions, Inc. Johnstown
Richard D. Evans, H.E.S. Inc., York
Robert Gleason, The Gleason Agency, Johnstown
Valerie Graydos, Fifty First Associates, Llc., Sewickly
Greg Gunn, Gunn Mowery, Lemoyne John Hayden, Rivergrove Development Group, LLC., Pittsburgh
Donald Hedges, Rivergrove Development Group, Exton
Bill Hornung, Hornung's Family Home Center, Harrisburg
Bruce Hottle, Eagle Concrete Products, Somerset
Wanda King, Legacy Yarn Company, Pike
Larry Knutson, America's Arts Company, Biglerville
Greg Rothman, RSR Realtors, Mechanicsburg
Tammy Shearer, The Camera Box, Harrisburg
Kurt Twiford, Conexus, Camp Hill
Scott Wagner, Penn Waste, Inc., York
Tim Weinman, Weinman Real Estate, Greensburg
  