
    
  Launches "Courage to Fight for American Values" Tour

Verona, PA - Former Senator Rick Santorum (R-PA) announced today that he and his family will embark on a three week, "Courage to Fight for American Values" tour of Iowa, crisscrossing Iowa to meet with Iowans from all corners of the state as well as take part in many of the summer family traditions Iowa has to offer. The Santorum family will begin their journey on July 26th and will tour Iowa through the August 13th Ames Straw Poll.
"We are excited about the opportunity to spend our summer in Iowa," said Senator Santorum. "The reception I have received from the people of Iowa over the past year has been wonderful, and I cannot wait for my entire family to experience the many sites and sounds our heartland has to offer. This is a crucial time in our nation's history, and the people of Iowa play a key role in helping to put our nation back on track. We need to have the courage to fight for the values that made America the greatest nation in the history of the world and my entire family looks forward to continuing our dialogue about the issues facing our families, our communities, and our country."
The Santorum family will visit over 50 cities across Iowa on the following days:
Tuesday, July 26th
Ankeny, Boone, Ft. Dodge, Storm Lake, Sibley
Wednesday, July 27th
Onawa, Missouri, Council Bluffs, Des Moines

Thursday, July 28th
Ottumwa, Ft. Madison, Burlington, Mt. Pleasant, Pleasantville

Saturday, July 30th
Osceola, Indianola, Winterset, Dexter, Des Moines

Sunday, July 31st
Des Moines, Ankeny, Oskaloosa
Monday, August 1st
Washington, Muscatine, Davenport, Clinton, Tipton
Tuesday, August 2nd
Indianola, Des Moines, Perry, Jefferson, Carroll, Atlantic
Wednesday, August 3rd
Council Bluffs, Harlan, Ida Grove, Cherokee, Sanborn
Thursday, August 4th
Rock Rapids, Orange City, Sioux City, Des Moines
Friday, August 5th
Des Moines, Marshalltown, Newton, Grinnell, Tiffin,
Saturday, August 6th
Eagle Grove, Roland, Hubbard
Sunday, August 7th
Sioux City, Algona
Monday, August 8th
Ames, Webster City, Iowa Falls, Mason City, Charles City, Waverly
Tuesday, August 9th
Waterloo, Independence, Oelwein, Strawberry Point, Manchester, Dubuque
Wednesday, August 10th
Maquoketa, Anamosa, Cedar Rapids, Des Moines
Thursday, August 11th
Ames

Friday, August 12th
Iowa State Fair
Saturday, August 13th
Ames
Specific event locations and times will be announced in the coming days.
  