
    [APP Note:  As with all "Campaign Documents" archived by the APP, the content of this document was prepared by the presidential campaign. This is not the analysis or work product of the American Presidency Project.  We do not vouch for the accuracy of ANY campaign document published by any presidential campaign. They are provided as part of the historical record.]
Toplines

Biden supports cutting police funding

When an activist recently asked him if he supported efforts to "redirect" some police funding, Biden didn't hesitate to say "yes, absolutely"
Make no mistake – "redirecting" means cutting money from police


Biden's "Unity Task Force" with Bernie Sanders says we need to "reimagine policing" – language that defund and abolish the police activists have used
The task force called for polices that would lead to less funding for police, and effectively end policing as we know it; their recommendations call for:

Eliminating qualified immunity, which protects police and law enforcement from frivolous and costly lawsuits

The Supreme Court ruled that qualified immunity protects police departments against the cost of lawsuits and drawing attention away from their actual jobs
Eliminating qualified immunity would effectively cut police funding, leading to new legal costs for police and take away time from actual law enforcement activity


Restricting civil asset forfeiture, where police seize money and property from criminals

The National Association of Police Organizations said an Obama action to restrict this practice threatened "significant funding"
Restricting the practice would effectively cut funding from police


Blocking police from receiving surplus military equipment from the Pentagon

This program provides law enforcement with protective gear, including bulletproof vests and helmets, other safety equipment, and even helicopters
The National Sheriff's Association criticized the Obama Administration for restricting this program – a restriction President Trump later lifted – saying local law enforcement could not afford some of this equipment on their own
Blocking local police from receiving critical equipment is effectively cutting funding, forcing them to find money elsewhere for these supplies and gear




Setting up an "unarmed" "corps" of first responders to deal with situations police currently deal with

This would inevitably divert funding from police


Biden supporters and endorsers are vocal advocates for defunding the police

Last month, Biden held a high-dollar fundraiser with defund the police advocate John Legend
Biden supporter Ilhan Omar has tweeted it is time to "disband" the Minneapolis Police Department
Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez – a co-chair of Biden's climate task force – says police departments need to be "defunded," even claiming a $1.5 billion cut to the NYPD is not enough
Former Democrat Senate Leader and Biden supporter Harry Reid said that money needs to be "reallocate[d]" away from police departments
Biden endorser Rep. Bennie Thompson (D-MS) has said money needs to be pulled back from police and "invest[ed] other things"


Mayors that back Biden are cutting their police budgets

Los Angeles Mayor and Biden-backer Eric Garcetti is pledging to cut $150 million from the LAPD
New York Mayor and Biden supporter Bill DeBlasio cut $1 billion from the NYPD's budget


Biden has even hired anti-police staffers

Biden hired a staffer this month who had previously compared cops to "pigs" on social media and had tweeted support for efforts to defund the police



JOE BIDEN SUPPORTS THE RE-DIRECTING OF FUNDS AWAY FROM POLICE DEPARTMENTS
In July 2020, When Asked If He Supported Efforts To "Redirect" Police Funding, Biden Said "Yes, Absolutely." JOE BIDEN: "Surplus military equipment for law enforcement. They don't need that. The last thing you need is an up-armored Humvee coming into a neighborhood just like the military invading. They don't know anybody. They become the enemy. They're supposed to be protecting people. So my generic point is …" ADY BARKAN: "But do we agree that we can redirect some of the funding?" BIDEN: "Yes. Absolutely." (Joe Biden, "Joe Biden's Emotional Conversation With Activist Ady Barkan," NowThis News, 7/8/20)

Click To Watch
THE BIDEN-SANDERS UNITY TASK FORCE HAS POLICIES THAT WOULD LEAD TO LOWER POLICE FUNDING
The Biden-Sanders Unity Task Force Calls For Reimagining Police
The Biden-Sanders Unity Task Force Says That We Need To "Reimagine Policing." "Democrats believe we must ensure real accountability for individual and systemic misconduct in our police departments, prevent law enforcement from becoming unnecessarily entangled in the everyday lives of Americans, and reimagine policing for the benefit and safety of the American people." ("Biden-Sanders Unity Task Force Recommendations," Biden For President, 7/20)
Defund Police Advocates Have Used The Term "Reimagining" Police To Mean Defunding Or Even Abolishing Police
Black Lives Matter Activist Co-Founder Melina Abdullah: "It's Important That As We Say "Defund The Police," We Understand That It's Coupled With A Reimagining Of Public Safety" "Black Lives Matter L.A. Co-Founder Melina Abdullah spoke with AirTalk's Larry Mantle about the organization's policy goals … Here's what she had to say: So it's important that as we say "defund the police," we understand that it's coupled with a reimagining of public safety. So if listeners are to think about why they or why their neighbors might call the police, we can say that the vast majority of the time, we're not looking for a police response. Most calls -- and the police admit this-- are issues like the neighbors playing the music too loud. Or there's someone who might be having a mental health issue." (Gina Pollack, "BLM Leader: If A Youth Worker Was Called Instead of LAPD, 14-Year-Old Jesse Romero Would Have Made It To High School," LAist, 6/23/20)
The New York Times Headline: "Cities Ask If It's Time To Defund Police And 'Reimagine' Public Safety." ("Cities Ask if It's Time to Defund Police and 'Reimagine' Public Safety," The New York Times, 6/6/20)

The Washington Post Headline: "'Defund The Police' Is As Much About Reimagining Public Safety As It Is About Money." "AFTER WEEKS of sustained anger and activism following the police killings of several black Americans, one of the most contentious demands of the movement — to "defund the police" — is making waves in city councils across the country as advocates and elected officials clash over the most effective immediate responses to address police brutality and structural racism. Underlying these debates remains a higher-order question, one that was never going to be resolved in a single round of budget negotiations: How to reimagine public safety in America?" (Editorial Board, "'Defund The Police' Is As Much About Reimagining Public Safety As It Is About Money," The Washington Post, 7/16/20)

CNN Headline: "Demonstrators Say Public Safety Re-Imagined Is A Future Without Police." (Jasmine Wright, "Demonstrators Say Public Safety Re-Imagined Is A Future Without Police," CNN, 6/21/20)

Washington City Paper: "The Call To Defund" The Washington DC Police Department Is "A Call To Reimagine Public Safety." "The call to defund the Metropolitan Police Department is a call for the urgent transformation of the daily conditions of Black life toward new conditions of safety and liberation. Rather than being a call to redesign law enforcement, it is a call to reimagine public safety." (Amands Michelle Gomez, "Black Activists Reimagine Public Safety in Essays and Poetry," Washington City Paper, 6/18/20)
Hamline University Professor Raie Gessesse: "U.S. Cities Should Not Only Pull Funds From Police Departments, But Abolish Them And Reimagine Public Safety." (Raie Gessesse Letter To The Editor, "Defund the Police," The Wall Street Journal, 6/16/20)
Demonstrators And Activists Have Used "Defund The Police" As A Slogan To Define Re-Imagining Public Safety And Redirect Funding Away From Police Departments And Organizations. "'Defund the police,' if an imprecise slogan, has provided a North Star for a grassroots movement unlike any to convulse the country in almost half a century. The phrase broadly refers to a desire among advocates to reimagine public safety strategies using racial equity as a guiding principle, and seeking to redirect funding from police to crisis responders and social services tailored to community needs." (Martin Kuz, "'It's Way Past Time To Try Something New': The Push To Defund The Police," The Christian Science Monitor, 6/19/20)
Eliminating Qualified Immunity
The Biden-Sanders Unity Task Force Calls For "Reining In The Doctrine Of Qualified Immunity." "Far too often, the law has shielded police officers who stand accused of heinous violations of civil and human rights. Democrats support lowering the intent standard for federally prosecuting law enforcement officials for civil rights violations. We will also act to ensure that victims of federal, state, or local law enforcement abuses of power can seek justice through civil litigation by reining in the doctrine of qualified immunity to increase police accountability." ("Biden-Sanders Unity Task Force Recommendations," Biden For President, Accessed 7/8/20)

The Supreme Court Has Ruled That Qualified Immunity Protects Against Significant Costs To The Government And Society, Including "The Expenses Of Litigation" And Diverting The "Energy" Of Government Officials "From Pressing Public Issues." At the same time, however, it cannot be disputed seriously that claims frequently run against the innocent as well as the guilty—at a cost not only to the defendant officials, but to society as a whole. These social costs include the expenses of litigation, the diversion of official energy from pressing public issues, and the deterrence of able citizens from acceptance of public office. Finally, there is the danger that fear of being sued will 'dampen the ardor of all but the most resolute, or the most irresponsible [public officials], in the unflinching discharge of their duties.'" (Harlow v. Fitzgerald, U.S. Supreme Court, 6/24/82)

Police Advocates Insist Qualified Immunity Is Necessary For Officers To Protect The Public And Allow Officers To Make Life-Or-Death Decisions In A Matter Of Seconds. "Advocates on behalf of the police insisted that qualified immunity was necessary for officers to protect the public. Its protections allow officers to make life-or-death decisions in a matter of seconds, they said, and without it, fewer people might be willing to join police forces." (Hailey Fuchs, "Qualified Immunity Protection For Police Emerges As Flash Point Amid Protests," The New York Times, 6/23/20)
The National Association Of Police Organizations Executive Director Bill Johnson Says Critics Of Qualified Immunity Are Attacking A Doctrine That Had Little To Do With The Deaths Of George Floyd And Rayshard Brooks. "Bill Johnson, the executive director of the National Association of Police Organizations, said critics of qualified immunity were seizing on the moment to attack a doctrine that had little to do with the widely condemned deaths of Mr. Floyd and Rayshard Brooks, who was shot to death this month by the police in a Wendy's parking lot in Atlanta, and unfairly targeting the police." (Hailey Fuchs, "Qualified Immunity Protection For Police Emerges As Flash Point Amid Protests," The New York Times, 6/23/20)

"'The Proponents Looking At Qualified Immunity Are Kind Of Cynically Taking Advantage Of A Horrific Situation To Change The Law In A Different Area That Does Not Apply To That Area At All,' Mr. Johnson Said." (Hailey Fuchs, "Qualified Immunity Protection For Police Emerges As Flash Point Amid Protests," The New York Times, 6/23/20)

Restricting Civil Asset Forfeiture
The Biden-Sanders Unity Task Force Calls For "Restrict[ing] The Conditions" When Civil Asset Forfeiture Can Be Used. "Civil Asset Forfeiture: Reform civil asset forfeiture to restrict the conditions under which property can be lawfully seized by the government." ("Biden-Sanders Unity Task Force Recommendations," Biden For President, Accessed 7/8/20)
Law Enforcement, Including The National Association Of Police Organizations, Criticized Obama Administration Restrictions On Civil Asset Forfeiture, Saying It Would Deprive Police Departments Of "Significant Funding." "Critics of the decision say that depriving departments of the proceeds from civil asset forfeitures will hurt legitimate efforts to fight crime, drug smuggling and terrorism. Bill Johnson, executive director of the National Association of Police Organizations, said, 'There is some grave concern about the possible loss of significant funding while local police and state police are being asked to do more and more each year.'" (Robert O'Harrow Jr., Sari Horwitz, and Steven Rich, "Holder Limits Seized-Asset Sharing Process That Split Billions With Local, State Police," The Washington Post¸1/16/15)
Major Cities Chiefs Association President J. Thomas Manger Say Civil Asset Forfeiture Is "A Critical Tool That We All Need." "Law enforcement groups gathered at the Justice Department with Mr. Sessions for the announcement on Wednesday were enthusiastic about what some saw as a chance to supplement thin budgets. 'D.O.J. all but stopped working with local police in this process, and this is a critical tool that we all need,' J. Thomas Manger, president of the Major Cities Chiefs Association and the chief of police in Montgomery County, Md., told Mr. Sessions. 'I'm really encouraged by the fact that you saw the public's concern with this program and you strengthened the accountability measures for local police.'" (Rebecca R. Ruiz, "Justice Dept. Revives Criticized Policy Allowing Assets To Be Seized," The New York Times, 7/19/17)
Blocking Police From Receiving Surplus Military Equipment
The Biden-Sanders Unity Task Force Calls For Blocking The "Transfer Of Surplus Military" Equipment To Police And Law Enforcement. "Weapons of War: Reinstitute and strengthen the Obama-Biden Administration's Executive Order 13688 to prevent the transfer of surplus military controlled weapons and explosives, nonpassenger vehicles, armored or weaponized drones, and combat aircraft to law enforcement agencies under the Department of Defense's 1033 Program." ("Biden-Sanders Unity Task Force Recommendations," Biden For President, Accessed 7/8/20)

Biden Has Directly Called For Ending The Transfer Of Surplus Military Equipment To Police Departments. "Former Vice President Joe Biden urged Congress on Tuesday morning to pass legislation that would ban chokeholds, halt the transfer of military weapons to police departments, and create a "model" use-of-force standard for police across the country during a speech about racial injustice." (Hanna Trudo, "Biden: Congress Must Ban Police Chokeholds Now," Daily Beast, 6/2/20)

The National Sheriff's Association Has Said The Equipment Provided By This Program, Including "Bullet-Proof Vests And Kevlar Helmets, Upgraded Safety Equipment," And Even "Helicopters And Robotics" Are Ones That Departments "Could Not Otherwise Afford." "Across the country we have seen how valuable this equipment has been to local law enforcement from San Bernardino to Orlando in fighting terrorism but also by saving lives in floods in South Carolina and snow storms in North Dakota, just to name a few. The equipment Sheriffs receive through this program include equipment they could not otherwise afford including additional bullet-proof vests and Kevlar helmets, upgraded safety equipment, as well as larger equipment such as helicopters and robotics." (Press Release, "Sheriffs Applaud Executive Order Restoring 1033 Program," National Sheriff's Association, 8/28/17)

Local Law Enforcement Officials Have Defended The Program, Saying That It Is A Way To Acquire Equipment That Is Useful In Dangerous Situations Without Stretching Tight Budgets. "Local law enforcement officials have defended the program, saying that it is a way to acquire equipment that is useful in dangerous situations without stretching tight budgets. For example, the Harris County Sheriff's Office in Texas, the site of severe flooding in recent days, received two armored vehicles under the program. One was used for high-risk operations and the other for high-water rescues." (Adam Goldman, "Trump Reverses Restrictions On Military Hardware For Police," The New York Times, 8/28/17)
Military Surplus Transfers Provide "Invaluable Tools" To Police Across The Country. "'I support the public's right to peaceful protest. I also support the community's right to be safe from violence.' said Sheriff Ken Stolle, in an email statement. 'Military weapons should not be used against American civilians,' he added. 'However, the more than $1.5 million in equipment we have received through the Department of Defense 1033 Program — at no cost to Virginia Beach taxpayers — provides invaluable tools to ensure the public safety of the community and my deputy sheriffs .... As long as criminals are killing our law enforcement officers, I will continue to seek out the very best equipment to protect them.'" (Dave Ress, "Police Acquisition Of Military Surplus Equipment Soars As Critics Decry Militarization Of Law Enforcement," Daily Press, 7/7/20)

The Columbia, South Carolina Police Department Said A Mine Resistant Vehicle The Department Received From The Military Was "To Protect Citizens And Officers During Hostile Protests" Because Rocks And Bottles Were Being Thrown At Police. "The Columbia police department received the $658,000 vehicle through the program in 2013, and has also been sent dozens of rifles, several trucks an unmanned ground vehicles, and other gear over the years. Jennifer Timmons, a spokesperson for the department, said the MRAP was used 'to protect citizens and officers during hostile protests' because rocks and bottles were being thrown at police, although she said no injuries were reported at the protests. The vehicle is typically used during incidents with armed, barricaded suspects, and other former military vehicles have helped the department save lives during devastating flooding, she said." (Casey Tolan and Sergio Hernandez, "As Demand For Police Reform Grows, Military Equipment Program Faces New Scrutiny," CNN, 6/17/20)

Other Police Departments That Receive The Military Equipment Make Similar Arguments, Calling The Program An Important Resource To Keep Officers Safe. "Other police departments that receive the military equipment make similar arguments, calling the program an important resource to keep officers safe. And they point out that without the program, taxpayer dollars would be going to purchase similar gear." (Casey Tolan and Sergio Hernandez, "As Demand For Police Reform Grows, Military Equipment Program Faces New Scrutiny," CNN, 6/17/20)

Chuck Canterbury, The President Of The Fraternal Order Of Police, Praised President Trump's 2017 Action To Resume The Transfer Of Surplus Military Equipment To Police. "The FOP leadership applauded the rescinding of Obama's restrictions on the program. 'Protective equipment is essential to officer and public safety in a wide variety of life and death situations,' its president, Chuck Canterbury, told The Post. 'This decisive action by President Trump fulfills a promise he made to the FOP during the campaign, and police officers nationwide are grateful to him. … The previous administration was more concerned about the image of law enforcement being too 'militarized' than they were about our safety,' Canterbury said." (Tom Jackman, Trump To Restore Program Sending Surplus Military Equipment To Police," The Washington Post, 8/27/17)

The National Sheriffs' Association Praised The Action For Providing Resources That Law Enforcement Otherwise Would Not Have Been Able To Afford. "The National Sheriffs' Association also declared their support for Trump's action. 'The equipment sheriffs receive through this program,' association president Harold Eavenson said in a statement, 'includes equipment they could not otherwise afford including additional bullet-proof vests and Kevlar helmets, upgraded safety equipment, as well as larger equipment such as helicopters and robotics. By reinstating this program the President will provide more resources to local law enforcement to keep their communities safe without any additional cost to the tax-payer.'" (Tom Jackman, Trump To Restore Program Sending Surplus Military Equipment To Police," The Washington Post, 8/27/17)

Setting Up An "Unarmed" "Corps" Of First Responders
The Biden-Sanders Unity Task Force Calls For Using Federal Funds To "Create A Civilian Corps Of Unarmed First Responders Such As Social Workers, EMTs, And Trained Mental Health Professionals" To Respond To Events That Police Would Currently Respond To. "Federal funding to create a civilian corps of unarmed first responders such as social workers, EMTs, and trained mental health professionals, who can handle nonviolent emergencies including order maintenance violations, mental health emergencies, and low-level conflicts outside the criminal justice system, freeing police officers to concentrate on the most serious crimes. Fund initiatives to partner mental health professionals, substance use disorder experts, social workers, and disability advocates with police departments to respond to calls with police officers to better de-escalate interactions with citizens and when appropriate, to divert individuals to the social services they need." ("Biden-Sanders Unity Task Force Recommendations," Biden For President, Accessed 7/8/20)
BIDEN'S SUPPORTERS ARE FIGHTING TO DEFUND POLICE DEPARTMENTS
In June 2020, Representative Ilhan Omar Tweeted That It Is Time To Disband The Minneapolis Police Department. "The Minneapolis Police Department has proven themselves beyond reform. It's time to disband them and reimagine public safety in Minneapolis. Thank you to @MplsWard3 for your leadership on this!" (Ilhan Omar, Twitter, 6/5/20)

Omar Said She Would Support Biden In His White House Bid. "Rep. Ilhan Omar, D-Minn., said that while she will support 2020 presidential candidate Joe Biden in his White House bid, she also thinks it is important to believe survivors of sexual assault, including a woman who has leveled allegations against the former vice president." (Allison Pecorin, "Rep. Ilhan Omar Will Support Biden, But Said It's Important To 'Believe Survivors,'" ABC News, 5/26/20)

In June 2020, Biden Held A High Dollar Fundraiser With Radical Anti-Police Activist John Legend. "Rolling Stone reported last week that Legend was one of several celebrities to sign an open letter calling for police to be defunded. The letter concludes: 'Vote no on all increases to police budgets. Vote yes to decrease police spending and budgets. Vote yes to increase spending on Health care, Education, and Community programs that keep us safe.' Legend has tweeted that "we spend far too much on policing," and remarked on June 7: 'I'm almost 100% sure Biden won't be tweeting #DefundThePolice. It's the job of activists to push these politicians toward meaningful change.'" (Gregg Re, "Biden Attending High-Roller Fundraiser Headlined By Defund-The-Police Activist John Legend," Fox News, 6/11/20)
In June 2020, Congresswoman Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (D-NY) Said A $1.5 Billion Cut To Defund The New York City Police Department Was Not A Victory Because It Did Not Cut Enough. "Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez said Tuesday the proposed $1.5 billion NYPD budget slash didn't go far enough. 'It does not mean counting cuts in overtime as cuts, even as NYPD ignores every attempt by City Council to curb overtime spending and overspends on overtime anyways. The fight to defund policing continues,' she said. 'If these reports are accurate, then these proposed 'cuts' to the NYPD budget are a disingenuous illusion. This is not a victory. The fight to defund policing continues,' she said." (Bob Fredericks, "$1.5B In NYPD Cuts Not Enough For AOC: 'Defunding Police Means Defunding Police," New York Post, 6/30/20)

Ocasio-Cortez Co-Chairs Vice President Joe Biden's Climate Change Task Force. "Democratic Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez will co-chair a task force for Joe Biden's campaign on climate change, a move that adds progressive credentials to the former vice president's effort to unify the party ahead of the general election. Ocasio-Cortez will work with former Democratic presidential nominee and Secretary of State John Kerry, the panel's other co-chair, in a group that also includes Varshini Prakash, the executive director of the Sunrise Movement, the youth-led champions of the Green New Deal." (Gregory Krieg, Ryan Nobles, And Paul LeBlanc, "Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez To Co-Chair Biden-Sanders Campaign Climate Task Force," CNN, 5/13/20)
On A June 5 Democratic Primary Debate, Ocasio-Cortez Asked Elected Officials What They Were Willing To Sacrifice To Ensure Police Departments "Are Defunded." REPRESENATIVE ALEXANDRIA OCASIO CORTEZ: "Political courage, there are moments in one persons' career that you have to stand up and be willing to say, 'Am I willing to sacrifice everything I have, the privileges that I have so that the right thing can go through?' This is one of those promises. This right now is one of those promises. So, if you're an elected official, and for any reason is on this call, I'm asking you to ask yourself, what are you willing to sacrifice to make sure overfunded police departments are defunded." (NY1's Spectrum News, 6/8/20)


Click To Watch
In June 2020, Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti Pledged To Remove $150 Million From The City Police's Budget In The Coming Year. "Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti has angered an L.A. police union representing nearly 10,000 people after Garcetti referred to police officers as 'killers' while pledging to remove $150 million from the city police's budget in the coming year." (Daniel Villarreal, "LA Mayor Faces Backlash For Defunding Police With $150 Million Budget Cut," Newsweek, 6/5/20)

Garcetti Endorsed Biden For President In January 2020. "Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti, who flirted with the idea of running for president but skipped the 2020 campaign, endorsed former Vice President Joe Biden for the Democratic nomination Thursday." (Michael Finnegan and Seema Mehta, "Eric Garcetti Endorses Joe Biden For President As Candidate Visits Southern California," Los Angeles Times, 1/9/20)

In June 2020, Rep. Bennie Thompson (D-MS) Said Police Departments Are Taking "Sizeable" Funds And Thinks Municipalities Should "Invest" The Funds Into "Other Things." REP. BENNIE THOMPSON (D-MS): "The fact that policed departments are taking a sizeable amount of the budget of a lot of municipalities and other entities. We need to look at those budgets, pull some of the money back and invest it in other things." (MSNBC's "Kasie DC," 6/7/20)

Click To Watch

Thompson Endorsed Biden In March 2020. "Mississippi's only Democratic congressman said Thursday that he's endorsing former Vice President Joe Biden for president, days ahead of the state's presidential primary." (Emily Wagster Pettus, "House Homeland Security Chairman Bennie Thompson Endorses Biden," Clarion Ledger, 3/5/20)

Former Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid Said That "Governments Are Going To Have To Look At How They Can Reallocate Money" Away From Police Departments. "'Governments are going to have to look at how they can reallocate money,' said Harry Reid, the former Senate majority leader. 'Of course it's a good idea if we have more social services rather than police because police are to be our guardians rather than warriors. There are a lot of things we'd rather have a sociologist work through rather than a guy with a gun and a holster.'" (Reid J. Epstein, "These Top Democrats Go Further Than Biden On Diverting Police Funds," The New York Times, 6/26/20)

Harry Reid Endorsed Biden's White House Bid In March 2020. "Former Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid (D-Nev.) on Monday announced he was endorsing former Vice President Joe Biden in his bid for the White House." (Rebecca Klar, "Harry Reid Endorses Biden's White House Bid," The Hill, 3/2/20)

New York City Mayor Bill De Blasio, A Democrat, Cut $1 Billion From The New York City Police Department. "The New York City Council approved an $88.1 billion budget overnight that includes shifting roughly $1 billion away from the New York Police Department. For the past week, the city has seen 'defund NYPD' demonstrations, where crowds have gathered at City Hall and outside of the residences of some members of the city council. On Wednesday morning, Mayor Bill de Blasio defended the budget cuts to the city's police department, saying he's 'very comfortable we struck the right balance.' 'We are reducing the size of our police force by not having the next recruit class. We are reducing our overtime levels. We're shifting functions away from police to civilian agencies,' de Blasio said. 'We think it's the right thing to do. It will take work. It will take effort and we're going to be reforming that work in the meantime,' he added." (Brakkton Booker, "De Blasio On Shifting $1 Billion From NYPD: 'We Think It's The Right Thing To Do'," NPR, 6/1/20)

In April 2020, Bill De Blasio Said Americans Need To Back Joe Biden For President. (Errol Louis, "De Blasio: We All Need to Back Joe Biden for President Now," Spectrum News, 4/13/20)

THE BIDEN CAMPAIGN HIRED A STAFFER AFTER SHE TWEETED THAT POLICE WERE WORSE THAN PIGS
Biden Campaign Supervising Video Producer Sara Pearl Tweeted Support For The Defund The Police Movement In June, Adding That Police Should Not Be Compared To Pigs Since Pigs Were "Highly Intelligent And Empathetic" And "Would Never Racially Profile You." "A supervising video producer for Joe Biden's presidential campaign tweeted a meme in June that urged people to stop calling the police 'pigs' -- but only because unlike the police, pigs are 'highly intelligent and empathetic animals who would never racially profile you.' The videographer, Sara Pearl, also retweeted a user's comment that while 'pigs are sweet, intelligent and compassionate,' police officers are 'monsters' who 'don't deserve to be called pigs.' On June 1, Pearl tweeted simply, '#DefundPolice.' Days later, she said Buffalo's police department should be 'defunded immediately.'" (Gregg Re, "Biden Campaign Staffer Mocked Cops As Worse Than 'Pigs,' Called For Defunding Police," Fox News, 7/17/20)
Statements Of Support
Missouri Governor Mike Parson: "As a former Sheriff, law enforcement officer for over 22 years, and now Governor, when it comes to supporting law enforcement officers and their families who are under attack, I'll always stand with President Trump and have their backs. Republicans and President Trump are working hard to take violent criminals off of our streets and stop these crazy efforts to defund the police. Joe Biden and the Democrats are allowing the radical left to make our communities less safe."
Senator Lindsey Graham (R-SC), Chairman of the Senate Committee on the Judiciary: "Joe Biden won't stand up and stop the 'defund the police' movement being pushed by the most liberal elements in society. As Democrat leadership in cities across the nation allow their communities to burn and violence erupts, President Trump stands at the ready to continue defending our heroes as they preserve and protect our citizens."
Senator Marsha Blackburn (R-TN) Member of the Senate Committee on the Judiciary: "Week after week Joe Biden cowers in his basement lending his silence to the radical left wing mob as they destroy our streets and viciously attack our law enforcement officers. While Biden has opened the doors of his campaign to a disgusting defund the police narrative, President Trump stands shoulder to shoulder with the men and women in blue."
House Republican Whip Congressman Steve Scalise (LA-1): "Joe Biden has caved to left-wing extremists by vocally advocating for 'redirecting' funds away from police officers, which is synonymous with 'defunding' police: in fact, Joe Biden recently said we 'absolutely' need to redirect police funding, and police departments have 'become the enemy' in our communities. Police are not the enemy. Joe Biden has surrounded himself with radical advisors who are committed to defunding the police, using those exact terms like 'redirecting funds,' and no matter what he says, Joe Biden will fall in line with the radical left's defund-police insanity. Police officers saved my life. I've seen the best of what the men and women in uniform have to offer in America. If Joe Biden were president, our police departments simply wouldn't have the tools they need to protect our communities and keep us safe. President Trump supports the police officers who keep us safe, Joe Biden doesn't. It's that simple."
Congressman Jim Jordan (OH-4), Ranking Member of the House Committee on the Judiciary: "The idea that we should 'defund the police' is pure insanity. The vast, vast majority of law enforcement office are responsible, hardworking, and heroic first responders. Joe Biden and his liberal allies, like AOC, will no doubt give into the left-wing mob's demands and turn their backs against our brave police officers."
Congressman Kelly Armstrong (ND-AL), Member of the House Committee on the Judiciary: "Just when we thought a Biden Presidency couldn't be more dangerous, he has appeased the calls from the radical left to defund the police. It is despicable that he has branded the men and women who put their lives on the line to protect our communities as "the enemy". Call it "reimagining", "defunding", or "disbanding" the Democrats will stop at nothing to pit our heroes in law enforcement against the mob. It's terrifying and at any other time in history it would be considered insane. But not in today's Democratic Party."
Congressman Guy Reschenthaler (PA-14), Member of the House Committee on the Judiciary: "The Joe Biden-Bernie Sanders Socialist Unity plan will make our nation's communities dramatically more dangerous. Joe Biden's supporters have radical plans for America including defunding police departments, suing police officers out of existence, and releasing violent offenders back on the street without bail. These dangerous, socialist policies threaten the safety and security of law-abiding citizens and their families. As liberal Democrat cities defund police departments and violent mobs attack law enforcement officers and wreck our communities, Joe Biden's silence speaks volumes about what America should expect if he were elected president."
Congressman Pete Stauber (MN-8): "As a 23-year police officer, I am proud to be championing criminal justice reform that provides our police departments with the resources they need to keep our communities safe. Our country can't afford Joe Biden, who currently stands with Democrats demanding to defund and abolish our police departments and allow anarchy, looting, and rioting to rule our city streets."
Congressman David Kustoff (TN-8): "As the former U.S. Attorney for West Tennessee, I had the privilege of working closely alongside our law enforcement. They risk their lives everyday to keep our communities and families safe. Former Vice President Biden's support of defunding our nation's police is irresponsible and could jeopardize the safety of our loved ones."
Former Florida Attorney General Pam Bondi: "Joe Biden's plan to redirect funds from the police will harm not only all crime victims but also all Americans who rely on law enforcement to keep us safe. Each day our police perform countless acts of protecting and saving our children that we rarely hear about. Yesterday in New Jersey three officers saved an infant who could not breathe. Under the left wing agenda, those officers would not have been employed. President Trump stands with the men and women of law enforcement who protect our communities unlike Joe Biden who has given in to the radical left's demands of the defund the police moment."
Sheriff Bunny Welsh, Former Sheriff of Chester County, Pennsylvania: "Joe Biden and the Democrat Party are on a mission to spread hate and disrespect toward law enforcement officers in an effort to drive their radical agenda of diminishing the police force in our communities. As the Law and Order President, President Trump stands with law enforcement as they risk their lives to protect the American people and strongly supports the prosecution of the violent rioters attacking police officers in the streets."
Joe Berg (Ret.) Cape May County Prosecutor's Office: "For the eight years of the Obama/Biden presidency, I saw a steady decline in the respect for police officers and the job we did. Immediately upon President Trump becoming a candidate, he adamantly supported law enforcement officers and the job we did. Sadly, now, Joe Biden is once again playing to those unhappy with the job being done and even promoting the concept of defunding the police!! What Biden and the liberal Democrat party are doing is playing a game with our public safety!! We cannot allow for our police to be taken off the streets!"
  