
    Boston, MA - On Wednesday, Craig Romney, Governor Mitt Romney's youngest son, visited Miami, Florida, to meet with area voters. Accompanied by Miami-Dade County Commission Chairman Bruno Barreiro and Remedios Diaz-Oliver, Craig interviewed with Radio Mambi, WQBA Radio and La Poderosa Radio. He then visited the Little Havana Activities Center before having lunch at Versailles Restaurant.
Craig Romney Discusses His Family:
Craig Romney: "My brothers and I are supporting our father not only because he's our father, but because we sincerely feel he would be the best president and leader for this country. My brothers and I are doing some interesting things to help. My brother Josh ... is traveling through all of Iowa's counties. ... Today my mother, wife and one-year-old son are traveling on a bus throughout South Carolina. ... My brother Tagg was working for the Los Angeles Dodgers in what he called his dream job, and he left it to come to Boston to work on our father's campaign." (WQBA Radio, 7/18/07)
Raquel Regalado Of La Poderosa: "This is a family-oriented campaign. This is a great contribution. ... Something that our community values, and I think all Americans do, are family values because [the President] is a prominent figure. ... I think it's important at this time when the entire world is focusing on the family. ... This means that at least the government is returning to the principle that everything stems from the family." (La Poderosa Radio, 7/18/07)
Armando Perez-Roura Of Radio Mambi: "We have to talk about the candidates' ethics. It's very important. This country, like the rest of the world, is suffering a deep moral crisis. And because of this, we are in danger of losing our liberty and democracy. I believe this candidate is very qualified in this respect. It's clear in his personal life. It's evident in everything he represents." (Radio Mambi, 7/18/07)
Craig Discusses Governor Romney's Priorities:
Craig Romney: "We are facing a new generation of challenges in this country. ... What my father has is the experience as governor, as a businessman and as the head of the Olympics. He has the experience necessary to bring change to Washington and confront these problems that affect our future. My father always talks about a three-legged stool. ... It's based on three key things that Ronald Reagan also believed in - strengthening the family, the military and the economy. If we strengthen these things, the future of this country will be a bright one. This is what my father can do for this country." (Radio Mambi, 7/18/07)
Craig Discusses Cuba:
Craig Romney: "My father believes that the people of Cuba need a democratic transition, not just a change of power. He is optimistic about Cuba's future because of the exile community's work and the support for the pro-democratic movement in Cuba." (WQBA Radio, 7/18/07)
Craig Discusses The State Of The Campaign And Governor Romney's Record On Health Care:
Bernadette Pardo Of WQBA: "But Republicans are undecided about whom to choose and are not quite satisfied with their current candidates. What does your father, Mitt Romney, have to offer that is different from the others?"
Craig Romney: "I believe candidates like John McCain, Rudy Giuliani and Fred Thompson are all nationally known candidates. ... In states like Iowa and New Hampshire where the people have had the opportunity to meet my father and learn more about his positions and beliefs, he's doing very well and enjoys strong support. I believe the same thing will continue to happen as people get the chance to know him better."
Pardo: "What really caught my attention about the Governor is what he did on the issue of health care. For me, this is a fundamental issue. ... Can you please explain to people what Governor Romney did on the issue of health care?"
Craig Romney: "One of the most important issues in this country is health care. My father found a way to make health insurance more affordable for all. But he didn't want the government to take over, and he didn't want to raise taxes to pay for this plan. What he did was work with businesses and others to implement a plan that would, according to law, require all people to have insurance. It's similar to auto insurance in the sense that everyone must have it. They can choose whichever plan they want and serves them best, but everyone needs to have coverage." (WQBA Radio, 7/18/07)
  