
    Cornell, Vice Chair of the Manchester Democrats, is the Latest in a String of New Hampshire Endorsements for Harris
Following Senator Kamala Harris' swing through the Granite State on Sunday, State Representative and Manchester Democrats Vice Chair Patty Cornell is announcing her endorsement of Harris. Cornell, a 3-term state representative and assistant House majority floor leader, is a former 36-year public school guidance counselor and a "longtime influential party activist," according to WMUR.
"I've met many politicians before, and Kamala Harris is the real deal. She is compassionate, tough, principled, but also a contagious optimist. She has a thoughtful agenda focused on the issues that matter to Granite Staters, including her middle class tax credit and proposal to help families afford their rent. In addition to her strong and impactful proposals on key policies, Kamala has shown time and time again that she will hold the GOP accountable when it matters the most. And I know she has what it takes to beat Trump in the general election," said State Representative Patty Cornell. "While there are many worthy candidates running this cycle, Kamala's intangible qualities -- her warmth, strong sense of right and wrong, and fearlessness -- make my choice for president clear. I am proud to endorse Kamala Harris."
Cornell told WMUR, "we have an abundance of good candidates, and I've met quite a few. I was planning to hold out until the end, but after seeing [Harris] on Sunday, I decided that she is my candidate."
On July 14, Harris held events across New Hampshire, with more than 400 turning out to a house party in Gilford and more than 900 packing the cafeteria and gym at Somersworth High School.
Cornell joins former New Hampshire Democratic Party Chair Joe Keefe, State Representatives Dick Ames, and Linda Tanner, former Dover Mayors Jack Buckley and William Boc, Co-Chair of the NHDP Senior Caucus Pam Jorgensen, and former State Rep. Lisa DiMartino in endorsing Harris since the first Democratic debate.
  