
    Pool Report by Jasper Scherer, Houston Chronicle & San Antonio Express-News 



Sent:
Reports:




July 11, 202214:52 CDT

Pool report - Dr. Biden at DNC fundraiser
Good afternoon from San Antonio, where First Lady Jill Biden recently delivered remarks to a roomful of donors — and some elected officials — at a Democratic National Committee fundraiser, held at the home of former DNC finance chair Henry Muñoz.
Dr. Biden arrived here at 1:37 p.m. CT from the UnidosUS annual conference in downtown San Antonio. She began speaking at 2:10 p.m. and concluded at 2:20 p.m., then took questions from the audience, for which the pool was not present.
During her brief remarks, Dr. Biden praised the bipartisan gun safety law, noting that her husband held a ceremony earlier today on the White House South Lawn to park its passage. She also criticized Republicans for opposing more ambitious gun reform efforts, including bans on assault-style firearms.
"Thank God we are where we are. But it's, like, this much," Dr. Biden said, holding up a hand and pinching her fingers together. "And we've got to go this much," she continued, spreading her arms wide apart.
She also gave Republicans credit for taking a disciplined approach in their opposition to gun restrictions, while urging Democrats to do the same in fighting for their own legislative priorities.
"Republicans, you have to admit, stick together. No matter what it is, even if it's choosing — which I really don't understand — choosing to stick together on a weapon that kills our children," Dr. Biden said. "We've got to be a little bit better as Democrats. And I feel that a lot of times we're fighting one another on degrees of something."
Otherwise, Dr. Biden encouraged the donors and fundraisers at the event to step up their efforts for the 2022 midterms.
"I hope you all have plans in place right now, and that you will take it that step further to do more of what you're going to do," she said.
She then yielded for questions, with a tongue-in-cheek plea.
"I can answer questions, although please, God, don't ask me anything about the economy," Dr. Biden said, drawing laughter from the room.
Elected officials in attendance included San Antonio Mayor Ron Nirenberg, state Sen. José Menéndez, Bexar County Commissioner Rebeca Clay-Flores and Democratic congressional candidate Greg Casar.




  