
    "From balanced budgets to economic growth, President Clinton accomplished goals that President Obama simply hasn't matched. After three and a half years, President Obama has added trillions of dollars in new debt and deficits and has threatened to undo President Clinton's historic welfare reforms. Voters deserve better, and they deserve a president who can run on his own record in office." —Ryan Williams, Romney Campaign Spokesman
President Obama Weakened President Clinton's Historic Welfare Reform Legislation:
The Obama Administration "Is Opening Up Waivers To States From The Work Requirements" That Are A Part Of President Clinton's Historic Welfare Reform Bill. "After the Obama administration announced this week that it is opening up waivers to states from the work requirements contained in welfare reform, Republicans began to speak out against the move, complaining it completely undercuts the law." (John Parkinson, "Upending Welfare Reform?" ABC News, 6/13/12)

The Associated Press: "Obama Administration Opens The Door For States To Seek Major Changes In Welfare-To-Work Law" ("Obama Administration Opens The Door For States To Seek Major Changes In Welfare-To-Work Law," The Associated Press, 7/13/12)

Welfare Reform Was One Of President Clinton's Signature "Bipartisan Achievements." "Friday, Clinton rattled off a litany of his administration's bipartisan achievements, including welfare reform, balancing the budget, telecommunications legislation and an expansion of children's health insurance coverage." (Jonathan Weisman, "Gore Lets Clinton Out Of His Box," The Baltimore Sun, 10/28/00)
President Obama Has Run Up Trillions Of Dollars In New Debt And Deficits, While President Clinton Presided Over Balanced Budgets:
This Year Will Be President Obama's "Fourth Straight Year Of Deficits Over $1 Trillion." "Obama's budget projects that the deficit for the current year will total $1.33 trillion, the fourth straight year of deficits over $1 trillion." ("Highlights Of Obama's $3.8 Trillion Budget," The Associated Press, 2/13/12)


    Since President Obama Took Office, The National Debt Has Surpassed A Record $15.8 Trillion — An Increase Of More Than $5.2 Trillion. (Department Of The Treasury, www.treasurydirect.gov, 7/26/12)
  

Under President Bill Clinton, Federal Budgets Were Balanced. "Democrat Bill Clinton was president the last time the federal budget was balanced, and Republicans controlled Congress." (Jim Dexter, "CNN Fact Check: The Last President To Balance The Budget," CNN, 2/3/10)


    Under President Clinton, The Nation Had Three Years Of Budget Surpluses. (Office Of Management & Budget Website, Accessed 7/26/12)
  

President Obama Has Harshly Criticized The North American Free Trade Agreement — Which President Clinton Signed In His First Term:
Candidate Obama, In 2008: "I Don't Think NAFTA Has Been Good For America — And I Never Have." (David Espo, "Obama Hits Clinton On NAFTA Support," The Associated Press, 2/24/08)
President Clinton, In 1993: "NAFTA Means Jobs. American Jobs, And Good-Paying American Jobs." CLINTON: "First of all, because NAFTA means jobs. American jobs, and good-paying American jobs. If I didn't believe that, I wouldn't support this agreement." (President Bill Clinton, Remarks, Washington, DC, 9/14/93)
President Obama Has Presided Over Record Levels Of Poverty, While Poverty Declined When President Clinton Was In Office:
Under President Obama, The Number Of Americans Living In Poverty "Rose To A Record 46 Million." "The number of Americans living below the poverty line rose to a record 46 million last year, the government said on Tuesday, underscoring the challenges facing President Barack Obama and Congress as they try to tackle high unemployment and a moribund economy." (David Morgan, "Number Of Poor Hit Record 46 Million In 2010," Reuters, 9/13/11)
Under President Clinton, The Number Of Americans In Poverty Declined By Nearly 17 Percent. "During Bill Clinton's two terms as president, the median family income increased by 14 percent, the number of Americans in poverty declined by nearly 17 percent, and the number of children in poverty fell by almost one-fourth." (Ronald Brownstein, "A Lost Decade," National Journal, 7/7/11)
The Unemployment Rate Under President Obama Is Nearly Twice As High As When President Clinton Left Office:
Under President Clinton, The Unemployment Rate Fell From 7.3% To 4.2%. (Bureau Of Labor Statistics, www.bls.gov, 7/26/12)
Under President Obama, The Unemployment Rate Has Increased From 7.8% To 8.2%. (Bureau Of Labor Statistics, www.bls.gov, 7/26/12)
  