
    NOMINATIONS SENT TO THE SENATE:
Edward M. Avalos, of New Mexico, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Commodity Credit Corporation, vice Bruce I. Knight.
Daniel G. Bogden, of Nevada, to be United States Attorney for the District of Nevada for the term of four years, vice Gregory A. Brower.
Kevin W. Concannon, of Maine, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Commodity Credit Corporation, vice Nancy Montanez-Johner.
Deborah K. R. Gilg, of Nebraska, to be United States Attorney for the District of Nebraska for the term of four years, vice Joe W. Stecher.
Susan Tsui Grundmann, of Virginia, to be Chairman of the Merit Systems Protection Board, vice Neil McPhie.
Susan Tsui Grundmann, of Virginia, to be Member of the Merit Systems Protection Board for the term of seven years expiring March 1, 2016, vice Neil McPhie, term expired.
Timothy J. Heaphy, of Virginia, to be United States Attorney for the Western District of Virginia for the term of four years, vice John L. Brownlee.
Abdul K. Kallon, of Alabama, to be United States District Judge for the Northern District of Alabama, vice U. W. Clemon, retired.
Kathleen A. Merrigan, of Massachusetts, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Commodity Credit Corporation, vice Charles F. Conner.
James W. Miller, of Virginia, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Commodity Credit Corporation, vice Mark Everett Keenum.
Peter F. Neronha, of Rhode Island, to be United States Attorney for the District of Rhode Island for the term of four years, vice Robert Clark Corrente.
Jacqueline H. Nguyen, of California, to be United States District Judge for the Central District of California, vice Nora M. Manella, resigned.
Evan J. Segal, of Pennsylvania, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Commodity Credit Corporation, vice Charles R. Christopherson, Jr.
Dallas P. Tonsager, of South Dakota, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Commodity Credit Corporation, vice Thomas C. Dorr.
Anne Marie Wagner, of Virginia, to be a Member of the Merit Systems Protection Board for the term of seven years expiring March 1, 2014, vice Barbara J. Sapin, resigned.
David Lyle Cargill, Jr., of New Hampshire, to be United States Marshal for the District of New Hampshire for the term of four years, vice Stephen Robert Monier.
David Edward Demag, of Vermont, to be United States Marshal for the District of Vermont for the term of four years, vice John R. Edwards.
Genevieve Lynn May, of Louisiana, to be United States Marshal for the Eastern District of Louisiana for the term of four years, vice Michael David Credo.
  