
    The Rudy Giuliani Presidential Committee announced today Kevin Artl will serve as Executive Director of Mayor Giuliani's Illinois campaign. Joining Artl is Jayme Siemer, the campaign's state Political Director. Together, they will run the day-to-day campaign operation statewide by building upon the Mayor's strong fundraising and increasing support at the grassroots level.
The campaign also announced Andrew Proctor and Nick McNeely as field staff in Illinois. They will generate local grassroots support and manage volunteers in the state.
Giuliani's Illinois Campaign Chairman Representative Tom Cross, the Illinois General Assembly's House Republican Leader, said this team will help spread Rudy' optimistic leadership throughout the state. "Mayor Giuliani is the Republican presidential candidate who can win Illinois in the primary and general elections. We fully intend to run a strong campaign in the state," said Cross. "And Rudy's experienced staff, led by Kevin and Jayme, will help solidify the Mayor's support among Republican voters."
In addition to Representative Cross, Ron Gidwitz, a local business leader, is the campaign's statewide Co-Chairman.
About the Illinois Campaign Staff:
Kevin Artl, Executive Director
Artl served as Political Director for the Illinois House Republican Organization since 2003 where he coordinated all political activity for the House Republican caucus, including candidate recruitment, voter contact, organizational building, and paid and earned media programs. During the last two election cycles, he has directed voter contact and media programs for 30 State House races. Artl has also served as the Policy Director for the Republican caucus in the Illinois House of Representatives and has managed municipal and Congressional campaigns in Illinois.
Jayme Siemer, Political Director
Siemer served as the Illinois Republican Party's Director of Field Operations, directing their voter contact programs for the 2006 election cycle. Siemer has worked on campaigns ranging from local to Presidential and successfully implemented voter registration and voter contact programs for the Illinois Republican Party. Most recently, Siemer managed the campaign of Carbondale Mayor Brad Cole. Siemer is a graduate of the University of Illinois-Springfield.
Andrew Proctor, Field Staff
Proctor worked for the Illinois House Republican Organization during the 2004 and 2006 election cycles. Proctor directed election day operations and voter contact programs for State House races. He also served as a Research Analyst for the Republican caucus in the Illinois House of Representatives. Proctor has also worked for Congressman Tim Johnson and is a graduate of the University of Illinois-Urbana Champaign.
Nick McNeely, Field Staff
McNeely, a U.S. Navy veteran, worked on campaigns ranging from municipal to State House races in Illinois since 2002. McNeely worked for the Illinois House Republican organization and the Republican caucus in the Illinois House of Representatives. McNeely directed voter contact and election day programs across Illinois. He is a graduate of the University of Illinois-Urbana Champaign.
  