
    We're deploying every tool, resource, and power at our disposal to protect our seniors and Americans of every age and background. --President Donald J. Trump
PROTECTING THE VULNERABLE: President Donald J. Trump is making it a priority of our COVID-19 response to protect America's most vulnerable citizens.

President Trump and his Administration are following a four-part strategy to provide additional protection to our most vulnerable seniors.
The White House and the Department of Health and Human Services will provide weekly data to States on high-risk nursing homes.
The Administration will distribute $5 billion in funding – in addition to approximately $5 billion already approved for skilled nursing facilities – to all nursing homes who receive funds from Medicare or Medicaid reimbursement.
To enhance testing in nursing homes, Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) is mandating that all nursing homes in states with elevated positivity rates test their entire staff each week.

To help nursing homes comply with this mandate, the Administration will distribute more than 15,000 rapid point-of-care diagnostic devices and associated tests over the next few months, starting with nursing homes located in hotspot areas.


The Administration will continue providing nursing homes and States with substantial technical assistance and training focused on infection control and best practices for nursing homes.

CARING FOR OUR SENIORS: The Trump Administration is focused on slowing the spread of COVID-19 and limiting exposure for America's nursing home residents.

Nursing homes have been severely impacted by COVID-19, with outbreaks occurring in multiple states.
The vulnerable nature of a nursing home residents, combined with the inherent risks of congregate living, requires aggressive efforts to limit the spread of COVID-19.
Older Americans have been shown to be at increased risk of COVID-19 complications and the median age of those who have succumbed to the virus nationwide is 78 years old.
Data suggests that nearly half of all COVID-19 related deaths have occurred among residents of nursing homes and long-term facilities.
By providing additional support to nursing homes, the Administration is ensuring that our vulnerable seniors and support staff are protected.

SUPPORTING NURSING HOMES: Throughout the COVID-19 pandemic, President Trump has taken strong action to support nursing home residents and staff.

The Administration has provided technical assistance and support to nursing homes and States throughout the pandemic, including onsite visits to higher-risk nursing homes.
On April 30, the President announced an initiative to deliver personal protective equipment to more than 15,000 nursing homes across the Nation.
CMS has issued comprehensive guidance to support nursing homes in their response to COVID-19, expanding access to free testing and telehealth for Medicare beneficiaries.
The Administration has distributed more than 66 million gloves, 14 million masks, and 13 million gowns to nursing homes.

  