
    THE PRESIDENT. National Adviser Byron Rawls and National President Doug Rinker, distinguished fellow members of the Future Farmers of America:
As a lifetime member myself, I vividly recall that the first organization I ever joined was the Baptist Church, and the second organization I joined was the Future Farmers of America. I never made president of the Plains chapter; I was secretary. But I know how to give the reports. And it's a very vivid part of my own background and my own pleasant memory.
I've also had a chance to come to you at your national convention on several occasions, to speak not only as one of the former leaders and interested Governors involved in the Future Farmers of America movement but also as a President, representing our great country. I hope that all of my policies and statements as President have been compatible not only with the principles of the FFA but in the best interest of the American farm and ranch families.
Today is very special to me. At last year's meeting of the State presidents, when I was asked ahead of time, "What is the most important single issue that faces our Nation on which the Future Farmers of America can be helpful?", I told them that it was energy conservation. This is a request that was honored very well. As you know, throughout the Nation more than 2,000 chapters have responded, and although I always expect a lot from the FFA, you have done even more than I expected a year ago.
Energy is a critical factor in every family's life, but it's especially critical in a farm family's life. As you know, oil prices, that are set by exporting nations completely beyond our control and with the minimal influence that we can exert, are the single most important factor in causing inflation and the presently existing recession. For over a 12-month period, during most of 1979, we had a 10-percent increase in the price of oil every month. Oil prices increased more in a 12-month period than had been the case since the first day oil was discovered in the late 1800's. Our economy has had to accommodate that shock, along with the economies of other nations throughout the world who are our trading partners, our allies, and our friends.
The American people have responded well. You may remember a television broadcast that I gave July the 15th last year, when I said that our Nation needed to have its confidence in the future re, stored and the spirit of America held up as a guide for us all, and called upon the American people, as a sacrificial, patriotic gesture, to cut back on oil consumption. The results, again, have been far beyond what I expected. The first 5 months of this year we have had a 15-percent reduction in the amount of oil that we have imported from overseas compared to the first 5 months of 1979.
This is a good indication of what we can have for the future. We don't anticipate the maintenance of that rate of reduction over a long, extended period of time. That would be expecting too much. But Americans have responded, and I'm very grateful, as an FFA member, that you have been in the forefront of that enormous progress. If we continue this progress, then in the long run we can help to ensure the economic security of our Nation.
I'm very grateful this morning to announce that the national winner of the energy challenge is Alamosa, Colorado, chapter. My congratulations go to Kirk Goble, to Shannon Selvidge, to Shawn Woods and all the members. And I would like to read the amazing accomplishments of this chapter.
First of all, you organized numerous workshops and presentations that affected the entire community. You conducted a comprehensive energy audit throughout the community. You built projects that included a solar greenhouse, 10 solar panels, 3 solar food dryers, and a model distillery for alcohol—fuel, I presume. [Laughter] And I might point out that all this took place in just 1 year, and the total membership of this chapter is only 43. That is a notable achievement. It's outstanding.
But there were some close competitors, and 2,000 chapters helped in a similar fashion. I would particularly like to congratulate the regional winners—the Woodland chapter of Woodburn, Indiana, the Richdale chapter of Morrow, Ohio, and the Madison-Gary chapter of Madison, Florida.
These combined projects, not only the winners but all the others, have had a big contribution to the well-being and the security of our Nation that we love so much. I think more importantly, though, you have shown every American family and every American citizen that each person can contribute to improving our Nation's status in the world and the future good life of Americans, not in a depressing, sacrificial way, but in an exciting, dynamic, patriotic, unified way.
I would guess that the people of the communities of those who've won these prizes or awards have not suffered. My guess is that the communities have been brought closer together, that families have a better future, that the quality of their life has been enhanced, that houses are better insulated, heat bills are down, families have been drawn closer together, waste in transportation has been reduced, and the excitement of millions of new jobs in the future, brought about from solar power and other elements that have been explored, give our American people more hope and expectation of an even greater life in the years ahead.
We'll be sending each one of the chapters a commemorative award, a certificate of award, but I want to show my special appreciation, as an effort by the President, in making this next presentation. If Byron Rawls and Doug Rinker will step forward, I want to read the award.
This first award is for all of you and for all FFA members throughout the Nation who couldn't be here this morning. "The President's Award for Energy Efficiency is awarded to the Future Farmers of America in recognition of outstanding contribution to America's economic and national security through exemplary leadership in the national effort to achieve energy efficiency." Signed, Jimmy Carter, the White House, July 31, 1980.
And the representatives of the Alamosa FFA chapter, please. Shannon, congratulations. Shawn, good luck to you. Thank you very much. I'd like to read this award, too.
I might say that these awards are in competition with the major corporations of our Nation, the universities of our Nation, States of our Nation, and other major entities—none any more major or any more important than Future Farmers of America.
I'd like to read: "The President's Award for Energy Efficiency is awarded to the Alamosa FFA chapter, Alamosa, Colorado, in recognition of outstanding contribution to America's economic and national security through exemplary leadership in the national effort to achieve energy efficiency." Signed, Jimmy Carter, the White House, July 31, 1980.
And now in closing, let me say that in addition to the excitement of the awards, on behalf of the people of our country, I want to thank you. A lot of this work that has been done by the award chapters and by all others has been difficult. I know how serious an effort must be expended to marshal 43 or 200 FFA members to work in a consistent policy and then to recruit parents, teachers, leaders of the community, mayors, county officials, and others to join in to make a successful community effort.
This first-year, I hope, will be just a beginning, and I hope that every chapter that has received an award will try to do even better in the second year. And if there are FFA chapters in the Nation who have not yet participated, I hope they'll be recruited. This is one award where the recognition is important, but where every person in our country benefits and where the greatest nation on Earth, as you know, becomes even greater because of your efforts.
God bless you. Thank you again, on behalf of us all.
MR. RINKER. Mr. President, not only do you have a belief in young people but you also have a belief in America's number one industry, agriculture and agribusiness; our sincere appreciation, because of the efforts that you've shown to the Future Farmers of America and almost 500,000 young people in all 50 States, Puerto Rico, and the Virgin Islands, who believe in themselves and believe in a future in agriculture. And it's people like you, Mr. President, who provide for that future.
This plaque reads: "To President Jimmy Carter, in sincere appreciation for meeting with the State presidents of the Future Farmers of America and giving the 500,000 FFA members and advisers the opportunity to participate in your efforts to make our Nation energy secure. Presented July 31, 1980." Mr. President, thank you very much.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you, Doug.
I want to thank Doug and all of you. I think the indication from these mutual awards is that we're all in it together to make our country even greater. And I'm especially grateful for the fact that while I was speaking, you sat down and while your own president spoke, you stood up. [Laughter.] But I feel like Doug is my president, too, as I am his.
God bless you all. Thank you again.
  