
    WASHINGTON, DC – Today, President Barack Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key Administration posts:

 Pete Mahurin – Member, Board of Directors of the Tennessee Valley Authority 
 Michael McWherter – Member, Board of Directors of the Tennessee Valley Authority 
 Joe H. Ritch – Member, Board of Directors of the Tennessee Valley Authority 

President Obama said, "I am proud that such experienced and committed individuals have agreed to serve the American people in these important roles. I look forward to working with them."
President Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key Administration posts:
Pete Mahurin, Nominee for Member, Board of Directors of the Tennessee Valley Authority 
Pete Mahurin is Chairman of Hilliard Lyons Financial Services, a position he has held since 2008. Mr. Mahurin joined Hilliard Lyons in 1968 and is currently Board Chair of the HL Financial Services Holding Company. He has been a member of the Board of Directors of the Tennessee Valley Authority since 2013. Mr. Mahurin serves as a board member for Houchens Industries, Albany Bancorp, First Cecilian Bancorp, Gray Construction, and Jackson Financial. Prior to his time at Hilliard Lyons, Mr. Mahurin was a high school math and science teacher. Mr. Mahurin received a B.A. from Western Kentucky University.
Michael McWherter, Nominee for Member, Board of Directors of the Tennessee Valley Authority 
Michael McWherter is owner and President of Central Distributors, Inc., and Volunteer Distributing Co., Tennessee-based beverage distribution companies, since 1989 and 1987, respectively. He has been a member of the Board of Directors of the Tennessee Valley Authority since 2013. Mr. McWherter worked in private law practice from 1982 to 1985 in Nashville and clerked on the Tennessee Supreme Court from 1981 to 1982. He served as Chairman of the Board of First State Bank of Union City, Tennessee, and on the Board of Directors of the Jackson Energy Authority in Jackson, Tennessee. From 1988 to 1995, he served as a Member of the Board of the Tennessee Performing Arts Center. Mr. McWherter received a B.A. and J.D. from Vanderbilt University.
Joe H. Ritch, Nominee for Member, Board of Directors of the Tennessee Valley Authority 
Joe H. Ritch is an attorney at the Sirote & Permutt law firm in Huntsville, Alabama, where he has worked since 1982. He has been a member of the Board of Directors of the Tennessee Valley Authority since 2013, and has served as its chair since 2014. He has also served as Chairman of the Tennessee Valley Base Realignment and Closures Committee since 1994 and as Co-Chairman of the Tennessee Valley Growth Coordination Group since 2008. From 2005 to 2011, he was a Member of the University of Alabama Board of Trustees. Mr. Ritch serves on the External Advisory Council to The Ohio State University College of Engineering. Mr. Ritch received a B.S. from the University of Alabama in Huntsville, a J.D. from Samford University's Cumberland School of Law, and an L.L.M. from the New York University School of Law.
  