
    Pool Reports by Zolan Kanno-Youngs, The New York Times 



Sent:
Reports:




July 1, 202212:54

In-town pool report #1 — gathering
Happy Friday, everyone.
Zolan Kanno-Youngs reporting for pool duty on this 90 degree day.
Reporters are now gathering at the stakeout for POTUS's virtual meeting with governors to discuss reproductive health care.
Pasting the rest of the schedule below.
1:00 PM THE PRESIDENT convenes a virtual meeting with Governors to discuss efforts to protect access to reproductive health careSouth Court AuditoriumOpen to Pre-Credentialed Media (Gather 12:50 PM – Stake Out Location)[RSVP here by 10:00 AM]
2:30 PM THE PRESIDENT departs the White House en route Camp DavidSouth GroundsOpen Press
2:50 PM THE PRESIDENT departs Washington, D.C. en route Camp DavidFort Lesley J. McNairIn-Town Travel Pool



July 1, 202213:16

In-town pool report #2 — 2 min warning
Pool is positioned in the South Court Auditorium. We have a 2 minute warning at 1:15 PM.
The event will be streamed at
https://www.whitehouse.gov/live/



July 1, 202213:48

In-town pool report #3 governors meeting
The president entered the South Court Auditorium at 1:16 PM and sat at a desk to the left of the stage facing the middle monitor at the back of the auditorium.
Jen Klein, executive director of the White House gender council, sat at a desk on the other side of the stage.
Depicted at the top of the monitor was a label saying, "Protect women's HEALTH, Protect women's RIGHTS, Protect women's PRIVACY."
POTUS gave brief opening remarks at the start of the event. He called the Roe ruling "A terrible, extreme decision in my view upending lives."
"I share the public outrage of this extremist court," Biden said.
He said he has already directed the administration to protect those seeking to travel across state lines to seek an abortion. He also said he will preserve access to FDA-approved medication.
He said Congress will have to codify Roe and "the filibuster should not stand in the way." He acknowledged, however, that he did not have the votes in the senate.
"That means we need two more votes," he said.
Klein then turned to the governors. NY Gov. Hochul spoke first and at one point asked Biden for additional executive action, noting he could open federal, military and veterans hospitals for those in need of reproductive care.
Governor Grisham of New Mexico said POTUS should also utilize the Indian Health Service. She said sovereign nations were ready to help.
Pool was hustled out of the south court at 1:37 PM. More information from the White House below.
Jen Klein, Deputy Assistant to the President & Executive Director of the White House Gender Policy Council
Virtual Participants:Ned Lamont, Governor of ConnecticutKathy Hochul, Governor of New YorkMichelle Lujan Grisham, Governor of New MexicoJ.B. Pritzker, Governor of IllinoisJay Inslee, Governor of WashingtonKate Brown, Governor or OregonRoy Cooper, Governor of North CarolinaJared Polis, Governor of ColoradoDan McKee, Governor of Rhode Island



July 1, 202215:13

In-town pool report #4 rolling to camp David
At 3:09 PM, the president's motorcade is rolling to Camp David (we had a bad weather call earlier so we're taking the vans).
Your pooler could not see POTUS enter the motorcade.
From the White House:
Traveling with the President en route Camp David:
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office OperationsYohannes Abraham, Deputy Assistant to the President & NSC Chief of Staff and Executive SecretaryStephen Goepfert, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the President



July 1, 202216:48

In-town pool report #5 Camp David arrival
After an uneventful ride, we arrived at Camp David at 4:40 PM. (We're being held less than half a mile away from actually entrance). Pooler is not able to spot POTUS exiting his vehicle.



July 1, 202216:59

In-town pool report #6 LID/ rolling back to DC
We have a LID, according to the White House. We're beginning the pleasant drive back to DC.
The White House wishes you a happy July 4th, according to a White House staffer.




  