
    John S. Bresland, of New Jersey, to be a Member of the Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board for a term of five years. (Reappointment)
John S. Bresland, of New Jersey, to be Chairperson of the Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board for a term of five years, vice Carolyn W. Merritt, term expiring.
Gene Allan Cretz, of New York, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Libya.
Thomas C. Gilliland, of Georgia, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Tennessee Valley Authority for the remainder of the term expiring May 18, 2011, vice William Baxter, resigned.
William H. Graves, of Tennessee, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Tennessee Valley Authority for a term expiring May 18, 2012. (Reappointment)
Daniel D. Heath, of New Hampshire, to be United States Alternate Executive Director of the International Monetary Fund for a term of two years, vice Margrethe Lundsager, term expired.
Donald M. Kerr, of Virginia, to be Principal Deputy Director of National Intelligence, vice General Michael V. Hayden, United States Air Force, resigned.
Mark Kimmitt, of Virginia, to be an Assistant Secretary of State (Political-Military Affairs), vice John Hillen, resigned.
Diane D. Rath, of Texas, to be Assistant Secretary for Family Support, Department of Health and Human Services, vice Wade F. Horn, resigned.
Robin Renee Sanders, of New York, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Federal Republic of Nigeria.
Charles Russell Horner Shearer, of Delaware, to be a Member of the Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board for a term of five years, vice Carolyn W. Merritt, term expiring.
Susan Richardson Williams, of Tennessee, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Tennessee Valley Authority for a term expiring May 18, 2012. (Reappointment)
  