
    Native American Leader, Veteran & Civil Rights Commissioner to Serve as National Campaign Co-Chair
The Clinton campaign today announced the endorsement of tribal leader and civil rights advocate Arlan Melendez, Chairman of the Reno-Sparks Indian Colony and Vice President of the Inter-Tribal Council of Nevada. He will serve as national Co-Chair of Hillary's campaign.
"I am proud to endorse Hillary Clinton," said Melendez. "She holds a deep understanding of the unique challenges in Indian Country, and both an appreciation and respect for tribal sovereignty. She has demonstrated her commitment to addressing the types of health care challenges facing our Native American communities. There is no other candidate who is more qualified and ready to promote understanding of our diverse cultures and backgrounds, and bring us together as a united nation. She will be an outstanding president."
Arlan Melendez has a distinguished career as a national leader in tribal government, as well as the economic and social issues facing Indian Country. As Chairman of the Reno-Sparks Indian Colony, he oversees a federally recognized Tribal Government representing Paiute, Washoe and Shoshone tribal members. He is also Vice President of the Inter-Tribal Council of Nevada, representing the twenty seven tribes in the state of Nevada, and is a board member of the National Indian Business Association. Chairman Melendez also served as the Western regional vice president of the National Congress of American Indians.
Melendez was appointed by Senate Minority Leader Harry Reid to the U.S. Commission on Civil Rights in 2005. The Commission investigates charges of civil rights violations and reports to Congress and the White House about the state of civil rights in America.
An armed forces veteran, Melendez served in the U.S. Marine Corps during the Vietnam era and is a Selective Service local board member.
"Chairman Arlan Melendez is an outstanding national leader - a leading voice for Native Americans, and a dedicated advocate for a just and inclusive society at all levels," said Clinton. "I am honored to have his support and endorsement."
  