
    Mike Pence today received additional support from Indiana conservatives in his bid for the Republican presidential nomination. Governor Eric Holcomb, who endorsed Pence last week, will chair the Indiana leadership team, which includes:

Indiana Speaker of the House Todd Huston (Co-Chairman);
Congressman Greg Pence; and
Congressman Larry Bucshon, M.D.

"Karen and I are truly humbled by the home team's belief in our campaign," said Mike Pence. "Together, with these top conservative leaders of the Hoosier State, we have fought to cut taxes, advance for pro-growth policies to enhance employment, expand school choice, and stood for the right to life."
"I've known Mike Pence for decades. Throughout those years, he's remained as honest as the day is long. Never once has he sacrificed an ounce of integrity in service to our state and nation. Mike's long been known to be forthright on the issues of the day, convicted in thought, and a consistent messenger regarding America's role, at home and abroad, as a powerful force for good," said Governor Eric Holcomb.
"I am proud to endorse Mike Pence for President. He is a proven, conservative leader who will utilize his experiences as a Congressman, Governor, and Vice President to rebuild America. He will be ready on the first day in office to solve the problems facing our country with the character and demeanor so desperately needed in today's politics," said Speaker of the House Todd Huston.
"Mike Pence is a man of integrity and courage. This is the man I have known since he was born. Our country needs a man with his character now more than ever. Mike Pence has never abandoned his post, or the Constitution and he never will. He will face every challenge, as he has in the past, with thoughtful and reasoned calm. Our politics have become too divisive, but Mike is an exception to the confused vitriol in today's politics. Mike Pence is the right man to unite our nation," said Congressman Greg Pence.
"Congressman, Governor, and Vice President and citizen: Mike Pence is supremely qualified for the job of President. Husband, father, and a man of deep faith: Mike Pence is prepared to be the moral and spiritual leader of our nation. It is with great honor and without reservation that I endorse Mike Pence to be the next President of the United States," added Congressman Larry Bucshon.
  