
    SAINT LOUIS, MO-- U.S. Senator John McCain's presidential campaign today announced that Colonel Jack Jackson will serve as Missouri co-chair.
"All through his life John McCain has put the interests of our great nation first," said Colonel Jackson. "He showed courage and integrity throughout his distinguished 22-year naval career, particularly as a POW when he refused early release. John McCain has spent his time in Congress standing up for hard working American taxpayers and reaching across the aisle to get things done. I am grateful for his service to our country and proud to work on his behalf in the state of Missouri."
John McCain added, "Jack has served his country well. He has stood up for veterans and represented his community in the Missouri House. I am grateful for his commitment to my campaign and look forward to working with him in the coming months."
Jack Jackson flew over 600 combat missions in Vietnam. A highly decorated veteran, he is the recipient of four Distinguished Flying Crosses, 33 Air Medals, Navy Commendation Medal (with combat V), a host of campaign medals and, most recently, the Legion of Merit for Service to His Country. Jackson left active duty as a Marine Captain in 1977, but remained in the Marine Corps Reserves and achieved the rank of Colonel.
Jackson was elected to the Missouri House of Representatives in 2002. He served as president of the largest freshman class in the history of the state of Missouri; was Chairman of the Veterans Committee, Chairman of the Joint Committee On Terrorism, Bioterrorism, and Homeland Security; and was a member of the Appropriations -- Public Safety and Corrections and Ways and Means Committees. Jackson received the "Legislator of the Year Award" from the Missouri Department of Veterans of Foreign Wars in June 2003, 2005 and 2006, and the "Legislator of the Year Award" from the American Legion in 2004. He received the 2006 Farm Bureau Friend of Agriculture Award. He also received the National Aide-de-Camp award from the National Commander of the National VFW.
Jackson has been married for 41 years to the former Arleen Henderlong. They have three children and eight grandchildren.
  