
    WASHINGTON, DC – President Obama today nominated the following individuals as United States Marshals:
•      David Cargill, District of New Hampshire
•      David Demag, District of Vermont
•      Genevieve May, Eastern District of Louisiana
"These dedicated law enforcement officials have devoted their careers to serving and protecting the American people, distinguishing themselves as the best and brightest at every turn," President Obama said. "I am grateful for their service and honored to nominate them as United States Marshals."
David Cargill, Nominee for U.S. Marshal for the District of New Hampshire
David Cargill is a Lieutenant with the New Hampshire State Police, currently serving as commander of its Terrorism and Intelligence Units. He began his service with the State Police in 1986 as a trooper, rising through the ranks to his current position. From 1984 to 1986, Cargill served as a police officer with the Hampton, New Hampshire Police Department. He is a graduate of Granite State College.
David Demag, Nominee for U.S. Marshal for the District of Vermont
David Demag is the retired Chief of Police for the Essex Police Department, a position he held from 2001 to 2008. From 1996 to 2001, he served as Chief of Police for the St. Albans Police Department, a position from which he also retired. Demag was also a member of the Burlington Police Department from 1971 to 1996, rising through the ranks to the grade of Commander. Demag has a bachelor's degree from Trinity College in Burlington and an associate's degree from Burlington Community College.
Genevieve May, Nominee for U.S. Marshal for the Eastern District of Louisiana
Genevieve May is the Deputy Superintendent with the Bureau of Investigations, Louisiana State Police. She has been with the State Police since 1978, rising through the ranks to her current position. In 2006, May was an Adjunct Professor at Baton Rouge Community College, and from August 2005 to December 2006, she was an instructor at Southern University in Baton Rouge. From 1986 to 2009, May served in the U.S. Navy Reserves, from which she retired with the rank of Master Chief Intelligence Specialist. She has a Master of Science degree in criminal justice from Southern University and another master's degree in public administration from Louisiana State University. In addition, she received a Bachelor of Science degree in zoology from Southeastern Louisiana University.
  