
    President Donald J. Trump today announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key positions in his Administration:
Carol Z. Perez of Virginia, to be Director General of the Foreign Service at the Department of State.
Ambassador Perez, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, has served as the Ambassador to the Republic of Chile since 2016. Previously, she was the Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary in the Bureau of Human Resources and was Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary in the Bureau of International Narcotics and Law Enforcement Affairs, both at the Department of State. Over the course of her three decades of service in the Department of State, Ambassador Perez has also served as Principal Officer and Consul General at U.S. Consulate General Milan, Italy, Executive Director and Deputy Executive Secretary of the Department of State, and Principal Officer and Consul General at U.S. Consulate General Barcelona, Spain. She earned her B.A. from Hiram College and M.A. from George Washington University. Ambassador Perez is the recipient of a Presidential Rank Award and multiple senior State Department Awards, including the Distinguished Service Award and Distinguished Honor Award.
Joel Szabat of Maryland, to be an Assistant Secretary for Aviation and International Affairs at the Department of Transportation.
Mr. Szabat currently serves as the Deputy Assistant Secretary for the Office of Aviation and International Affairs in the Department of Transportation. Previously, he has served as Executive Director of the Maritime Administration and as Chief of Staff for the Small Business Administration He has also previously worked for the Environmental Protection Agency and California State Legislature. During the Cold War, Mr. Szabat commanded tank units along the East-West German border. He earned his B.A. from Georgetown University and M.B.A from Harvard Business School.
Kelvin Droegemeier of Oklahoma, to be Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy.
Dr. Droegemeier currently serves as Vice President for Research and Regents' Professor of Meteorology at the University of Oklahoma and as Oklahoma Cabinet Secretary of Science and Technology. He co-founded and directed the National Science Foundation's Science and Technology Center for Analysis and Prediction of Storms and the NSF Engineering Research Center for Collaborative Adaptive Sensing of the Atmosphere. Dr. Droegemeier served two six-year terms (four years as Vice Chairman) on the National Science Board, under Presidents George W. Bush and Barack Obama. He earned his B.S. in meteorology from the University of Oklahoma and M.S. and Ph.D. in atmospheric science from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. Dr. Droegemeier is a Fellow of the American Meteorological Society and American Association for the Advancement of Science.
---
President Donald J. Trump today announced his intent to appoint the following individual to key positions:
Robert Ord of California, to be a Member of the American Battle Monuments Commission.
  