
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to designate two individuals to serve in his administration:
The President intends to designate Marianne Lamont Horinko of Virginia, to be Acting Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). Ms. Horinko currently serves as Assistant Administrator for Solid Waste & Emergency Response for the EPA. Ms. Horinko is the former President of Clay Associates, Inc., a public policy firm devoted to hazardous waste issues and was Project Director for the National Sediments Dialogue, sponsored by the National Environmental Policy Institute (NEPI), as well as Director of NEPI's "How Clean is Clean?" project. Prior to joining the Bush Administration, Ms. Horinko served as Attorney Advisor to Don Clay, Environmental Protection Agency Assistant Administrator for Solid Waste and Emergency Response, from 1989 until 1993. Earlier in her career, Ms. Horinko worked as an attorney at Morgan, Lewis & Bockius from 1986 until 1990 and as a staff scientist at ENVIRON Corporation from 1983 until 1986. A lifelong environmental professional, Ms. Horinko earned her B.S. at the University of Maryland College Park and her J.D. at Georgetown University Law School.
The President intends to designate Stephen L. Johnson of Maryland, to be Acting Deputy Administrator of EPA. Mr. Johnson currently serves as Assistant Administrator of The EPA's Office of Prevention, Pesticides and Toxic Substances (OPPTS). Mr. Johnson served as the Principal Deputy Assistant Administrator of OPPTS until May 2000. He has held top leadership positions in that office since August 1999, also serving as Acting Deputy Assistant Administrator and Associate Deputy Assistant Administrator. Previously, Mr. Johnson served as Deputy Director of EPA's Office of Pesticide Programs (OPP), where he managed the nation's pesticide programs since May 1997. Mr. Johnson has held numerous senior level positions during his career at EPA including: OPP's Director of the Registration Division, Director of OPP's Field Operations Division, Deputy Director of OPP's Hazard Evaluation Division, and Executive Secretary of the Scientific Advisory Panel for the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act. Mr. Johnson has also held staff and management positions in EPA's Office of Research and Development and Office of Toxic Substances. Prior to joining EPA, Mr. Johnson served as the Director of Operations at Hazelton Laboratories Corporation and Litton Bionetics Inc. Mr. Johnson received his B.A. from Taylor University and his M.S. from George Washington University.
  