
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
July 18
In the afternoon, the President and Hillary Clinton returned to the White House from Camp David, MD.
July 19
In the afternoon, the President had meetings with Prime Minister Ehud Barak of Israel in the Oval Office and in the Cabinet Room.
The President announced his intention to nominate William B. Taylor, Jr., for the rank of Ambassador during his tenure of service as Coordinator for U.S. Assistance to the New Independent States of the former Soviet Union.
The White House announced that the President will travel to Sarajevo, Bosnia-Herzegovina, on July 30 to participate in the Southeast Europe Stability Pact Summit.
July 20
The President announced his intention to nominate Jeffrey A. Bader to be Ambassador to Namibia.
The President announced his intention to appoint Curt Smitch as Commissioner of the Pacific Salmon Commission.
The President announced his intention to appoint Alison R. Bernstein, Lionel Bordeaux, Tom Colonnese, Verna Fowler, Tommy Lewis, Jr., Joe McDonald, Joseph Martin, Gerald (Carty) Monette,Debra Norris, Janine Pease-Pretty on Top, Anne C. Petersen, Faith Ruth Roessel, Karl Stauber, Richard Trudell, and Patrick Williams as members of the Board of Advisors on Tribal Colleges and Universities.
The President declared a major disaster in Nevada and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms and flash flooding on July 8-16.
July 21
The White House announced that the President and First Lady will travel to New York City on July 23, to attend the private memorial service for John F. Kennedy, Jr., and Carolyn Bessette Kennedy.
July 22
In the morning, the President traveled to Lansing, MI, and in the afternoon, he returned to Washington, DC.
The President announced his intention to nominate Norman A. Wulf to be Special Representative for Nuclear Nonproliferation with the rank of Ambassador at the Department of State.
The White House announced that the President declared a major disaster in Iowa and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms and flooding on July 2 and continuing.
July 23
In the morning, the President and Hillary and Chelsea Clinton traveled to New York City to attend the private memorial service for John F. Kennedy, Jr., and Carolyn Bessette Kennedy at the Church of St. Thomas More. In the afternoon, the President and Chelsea Clinton returned to Washington, DC.
In the evening, the President traveled to Cincinnati, OH, where he attended a Democratic National Committee dinner at a private residence. Later, he traveled to Aspen, CO.
  