
    Air Conditioning Contractors of America President and CEO Barton James: "ACCA members across the country have pledged to hire and train 75,000 skilled workers in the next 5 years. ACCA members are building in-house training centers, launching school-to-career co-op programs, and investing in continuing education programs for their employees and students."
Altec Chairman and CEO Lee Styslinger III: "Altec is committed to supporting the administration's workforce development initiatives. The nature of work in the U.S. is changing dramatically and it is critical that the public and private sectors work together to create opportunities for all Americans. It requires an innovative approach that includes the training of new workers, a reskilling of the current workforce and improved access to continuing education opportunities. In addition, apprenticeships, industry partnerships and on-the-job training will help to broaden worker skills. I commend the administration for their foresight in helping to create important initiatives that will generate job growth and help U.S. businesses meet the workforce challenges of the twenty-first century."
Amazon Vice President of Worldwide People Operations Ardine Williams: "Today we are proud to sign the Pledge to America's Workers and announce our plans to upskill 50,000 U.S. employees through our range of innovative training programs. At Amazon, we want to ensure our employees have the opportunity to gain new skills and create more job options for themselves – whether at Amazon or elsewhere."
American Crane & Equipment Corp. Executive Vice President Karen Norheim: "The most important thing at American Crane and Equipment Corp. is our people. We share the White House's commitment to our country's greatest national asset, the American workforce. We are proud to give our pledge to the advancement of our people and America's workers."
Associated Equipment Distributors President and CEO Brian McGuire: "I'm honored to stand with President Trump on behalf of Associated Equipment Distributors and our members across the country to commit to train and educate 10,000 individuals to ensure they have the necessary skills to thrive in today's economy."
Association of Union Constructors CEO Steve Lindauer: "Workforce development and apprenticeship training are the lifeblood of the union construction and maintenance industry. We understand that apprentices represent our collective future. If we don't recruit the best people, we will fail, plain and simple – and failure is not an option. That's why contractors and unions dedicate so much time and effort to our privately funded apprenticeship training programs."
Avangrid CEO Jim Torgerson: "Growth, as a sustainable, customer focused company is fundamentally linked to the investment and development of our people and the sustainability of Avangrid's workforce."
Boeing Vice President for National Strategy & Engagement Jennifer Lowe: "Boeing is proud to support initiatives that provide American workers with the kind of work based learning opportunities (including apprenticeships and internships), continuing education, on-the-job training and re-skilling. We recently committed to providing enhanced career opportunities for more than 100,000 current and future U.S. employees over the next five years. Also, the National Science Foundation and Boeing have a new $21 million public private partnership to accelerate training in critical skill areas and increase diversity in science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) fields."
Casey Jackson Ford President Casey Jackson: "It is an honor to sponsor and promote the 'can do' spirit found in the heart of the American worker. For generations our nation has set the bar for quality and expert craftsmanship. The pride of our nation shines as bright as the northern star each time that proverbial stamp 'MADE IN AMERICA' beacons the global market. We here at Casey Jackson Ford and 413 Cabins, LLC dba Stone Canyon Cabins answer the call and stand proudly hand in hand with our President, Donald J Trump in making this unified pledge a reality. Further, it is the grit of the American worker who we support and promote in attaining the greatness that is lying within. To them we salute, they are the true heartbeat and soul of a proud nation, our beautiful America."
C&C North America Inc. Executive Director Leocadia Barnes Sanchez: "Cosentino North America and its subsidiaries are committed to recruit, engage and develop workers in the USA. We truly foster internal mobility to promote and develop internal talent in an organized and structured manner. We take pride in providing opportunities for our internal employees to grow professionally and/or obtain new experience within the company."
CompuGroup Medical, Inc. CEO Benedikt Brueckle: "We are going to provide our outmost efforts to train workers and students from all segments, to ensure all Americans can benefit from the nation's historic economic boom and record low employment rates."
Concrete Supply Co. CEO Henry Batten: "Creating partnerships between business and State/Federal agencies will be critical for long-term technical capabilities training and skilled-based jobs."
Consumer Technology Association President and CEO Gary Shapiro: "White House leadership has been strategic in recognizing disruptive innovation will transform our economy – and challenge our workforce. The Pledge to America's Workers will help build the 21st century information- and data-driven workforce we need to keep leading the world in innovation. So far, almost 60 of CTA's member companies have pledged over two million training and skilling opportunities to prepare today's workers for the jobs of tomorrow."
EBNER Furnaces, Inc. Managing Director Herbert Gabriel: "EBNER Furnaces, Inc., a subsidiary of EBNER Austria was founded in 1987 and is pleased to continue investing in our workforce in terms of training education and employee engagement to further the goals of the EBNER Group Companies and to provide skilled manufacturing and customer support jobs in Northeast Ohio."
FCA International CEO Anthony Darkangelo: "The FCA International, an international contractor trade association representing more than 7,000 employers engaged in industrial coating, painting & wallcovering, architectural glass & metal, drywall finishing, flooring and sign & display work, is the nationally-recognized voice of the finishing construction industry that employs over 100,000 employees annually impacting buildings and communities across the nation. FCA International and its affiliates are dedicated to enhancing the industry through continuing education, labor relations, safety codes, standards development and government relations; thereby, we strongly support the President's Workforce Pledge."
Fintech President Tad Phelps: "We are proud of the economic growth we have seen over the last three years, and Fintech will pledge to do its part to ensure that we continue to create economic stability through job creation and training investments that support the development of human capital for the long-term."
Fix & Fogg Co-Founder Roman Jewell: "Fix & Fogg recognizes the huge opportunity that the talented workforce of America offers our business. We pledge to invest in, grow and up-skill the American workforce with our US-based venture."
Ford Vice President of Government Relations Curt Magleby: "At Ford, we are proud to invest in new training opportunities for American workers. Our pledge to train 55,000 hourly workers over the next five years will upskill our workforce and ensure we develop the most innovative and high-quality vehicles. Ford is proud to have more U.S. hourly workers and build more vehicles in the U.S. than any other automaker. Our workforce development pledge reinforces our commitment to American manufacturing."
Four Star Freightliner Principal Dealer Jerry Kocan: "We are very excited to continue our commitment of identifying students, veterans and potential employees from other segments with the full intent of training and developing them for our business…We have many great opportunities for people to grow in this industry. Due to a high retention rate at each of our six dealership locations, combined with the investment in each employee, Four Star has experienced a consistent level of knowledge, expertise and support at each location. We feel that our business offers not only an opportunity to make a good living, but the chance to constantly grow and develop skills that lead to a long career."
Gestamp North America CEO Jon Barrenechea: "Gestamp is proud to sign our commitment to further developing our workforce in the U.S. locations and impacting our nearly 4,000 associates in 10 production plants and 1 research and development center, throughout five states."
Global Vision US LLC CEO Sorin Preda: "People in our organization, including myself, had the opportunity to change industries and career paths due to education from US schools and corporations. As a sign of gratitude, we've considered this pledge the proper channel to give back part of the gained benefits."
Hill International Trucks President Mike Barber: "We are committed to attracting and retaining the best talent. In our industry, there is a shortage of skilled labor candidates. Through our personalized training plans, apprenticeship programs and relationships with local high schools and trade schools, we remain committed to enhancing career opportunities for individuals in our communities."
Hunter Truck Executive Vice President Nancy Hunter Mycka: "The need for technical training in the US is escalating to a point of crisis. Many Technical and Vocational positions should to be elevated to a STEAM status in order to fund and promote these jobs to be high-paying and high-respect positions. All students are not meant for a 4 year college/university degree. There are re-skilling opportunities for those in lower income brackets to improve their income. In most cases, a Technically or Vocationally trained American, after four years of 'real-world' experience, far exceeds the income of a college graduate entering the workforce. This needs to be a priority for this Administration and future Administrations."
Hyundai Motor America President and CEO José Muñoz: "Hyundai has been a proud partner in the American dream for more than thirty years, investing in American communities and workers through robust continuing education opportunities, apprenticeships, and learning programs. The partnerships Hyundai has built around the country not only nurture talent in the next generation of American workers but also demonstrate Hyundai's long-term continuing commitment to the prosperity of the American workforce."
InterContinental Hotels Group CEO of Americas Elie Maalouf: "At IHG, the heart of our operations is led by the people who provide an exceptional standard of hospitality for our guests each and every day. We have a long track record of investing in frontline hotel colleagues by providing training, skills and resources, which collectively also help promote upward mobility and opportunity…Building on those efforts, IHG is committed to delivering a major workforce learning initiative that will provide 250,000 enhanced career opportunities to hotel colleagues through access to hospitality and operations training over the next five years."
International Franchise Association President and CEO Robert Cresanti: "This pledge highlights the franchise sector's commitment to hiring, training, and upskilling American workers. America's locally-owned franchise businesses are one of our country's largest job-training programs – millions of Americans learned the foundational skills for successful careers in franchise businesses of all types. Thanks to the Trump administration's commitment to improve the lives of all working Americans by increasing pay and reducing burdensome regulations, with this commitment, IFA through our member companies will work to enhance career opportunities for 250,000 American workers."
IPC President and CEO John Mitchell: "On behalf of IPC, I applaud and thank President Trump for his focus on catalyzing government and business leaders to implement ambitious, new initiatives designed to promote the development of a skilled workforce. To support the workforce needs of the U.S. electronics industry, IPC pledges that it will provide more than one million workforce and training opportunities to the American worker over the next five years."
Isaac Heating and Air Conditioning Vice President & General Manager Eric Knaak: "Workforce development is a priority for Isaac Heating and Air Conditioning and we are proud to work with President Trump to promote careers in the skilled trades. Our industry-leading training center is creating careers for men and women and will train at least 1,500 skilled workers over the next five years. The Trump Administration's focus on the skilled trades is helping our business bring more people into this rewarding industry."
JSW USA Steel CEO John Hritz: "With our Pledge to America's Workers to invest $1 billion and hire 500 newly trained employees, JSW USA is rebuilding the domestic steel industry. Because of the support from our parent company and the President's policies to reinvigorate the US steel industry, we are proud to call ourselves an American melt and manufacture steel company."
Jubilant Pharma Ltd. CEO Pramod Yadav: "Jubilant is committed to delivering high quality pharmaceutical products and services to American consumers and to nurture innovation by continuously investing in its human capital. We are proud to be associated with this initiative of US Government."
Kenworth of Louisiana Vice President Jodie Teuton: "The dealership technician shortage impacts our business directly and we are excited and committed to pledge our support to the President's Workforce Initiative. We hope that our active involvement helps to raise awareness of the need for vocational training opportunities and the skills crisis in our Country."
Kia Motors America President and CEO Seungkyu Yoon: "Building on our commitment to the American workforce since we began manufacturing in the United States ten years ago, Kia is proud to be a partner of the Trump Administration's 'Pledge to America's Workers'. We will continue to explore opportunities to enhance the quality of the U.S. workforce through our various training programs and through continuing education opportunities. We believe that we can only be successful if the American worker is successful."
Kleemann SA CFO Aristeidis Zervas: "Kleemann SA is recognizing the importance of the US Market and therefore we are willing to invest in people and facilities which will enable us to offer our high quality products to the US consumers."
Klickerr CEO Alexander Pressinger: "At Klickerr, we believe that our future is based on positive collaboration, respect and appreciation. That's why Klickerr will continuously invest in the education and training of students and employees in order to enable and open minded but focused attitude to work and creating opportunities."
Leidos Chairman and CEO Roger Krone: "We live in an uncertain and evolving world that is becoming more digital and more connected at ever-increasing speeds, and we need a skilled workforce equipped to tackle the corresponding challenges. A strong national strategy for workforce development gives Leidos, and ultimately our country, the best chance to lead in the global, digital economy."
MMC Materials President Rodney Grogan: "I want to thank the President and this administration for raising awareness of the importance of workforce development, stressing skills based training and apprenticeship programs. The lack of a skilled workforce is a threat to our economy. In our industry alone, 48% of ready mixed concrete companies have had to turn away work because they do not have the drivers to service the jobs. It is critically important to have a well-trained, skilled workforce and we applaud this administration for engaging U.S. companies through the Pledge to America's Workers. The Pledge to America's Workers recognizes that workable solutions will involve meaningful collaboration between government, business, non-profit and educational institutions."
Mahindra Americas President Dilip Sundaram: "The Mahindra Group, a federation of companies, is the first automotive OEM to open a manufacturing operation in Detroit in 25 years and is committed to the advancement of its current and future workforce."
Miba AG Vice President Human Capital Bernhard Reisner: "Miba Group is a proud investor and manufacturer in the United States. With seven Production Facilities, a Sales Office and a Service Center we prepare for further growth to serve our customers in the Americas. Qualification is a major prerequisite for all our operations, universal in covering all qualificaions that are crucial to work every day on our mission: Technologies for a Cleaner Planet."
National Association of Landscape Professionals CEO Sabeena Hickman: "Education and training has always been a core pillar of NALP's mission, but we are now creating even more opportunities for people to pursue careers in the landscape profession through an expanded commitment to on-the-job training, apprenticeship programs, and other educational offerings that will support career advancement. We are honored to be part of the President's workforce initiative and joined by so many other industries in this pledge to grow the American workforce in the 21st century economy."
National Association of Manufacturers President and CEO Jay Timmons: "Manufacturers face a workforce crisis with more than half a million unfilled manufacturing jobs today and 2.4 million jobs that may go unfilled by 2028. But manufacturers are also problem solvers and committed to being part of the solution. So today, manufacturers proudly make this pledge to the American worker: we will continue to invest in our workforce and provide 1,186,000 Americans with the opportunity to receive training and development that will enhance their skills and prepare them for the next step on their career journey. This is manufacturers demonstrating that we are keeping our promise to invest in our people. The men and women who make things in America are the backbone of this economy, and it is our commitment that America's manufacturing workers will have the opportunity to learn, grow and take on new challenges."
National Automobile Dealers Association Chairman Wes Lutz: "President Trump and his team clearly understand how this economy works and what we need to keep it growing. Some of the best-paying and most stable jobs in America don't require four-year college degrees but are instead had by smart, hard-working people who get trained on the job and at technical schools. We need them at my dealership and I applaud President Trump for prioritizing this key issue."
National Automobile Dealers Association Vice Chairman Charlie Gilchrist: "The men and women who do the vital work of keeping our cars and trucks safe on the road are in short supply, believe it or not. Yet dealership service technicians are some of the best paying jobs at my dealerships and thousands of others across the country. These jobs don't necessarily require a four-year college degree, but what they do require is highly specialized technical training. President Trump has shown much-needed leadership in making our skilled workforce a national issue."
National Marine Manufacturers Association Senior Vice President of Government and Legal Affairs Nicole Vasilaros: "On behalf of the recreational boating industry, we are honored to sign President Trump's 'Pledge to America's Workers' and look forward to working his administration on this important initiative. There are more than 30,000 open jobs in the U.S. marine industry alone, and we stand ready to help expand our national workforce by creating stable, good paying jobs."
Nephron Pharmaceuticals President and CEO Lou Kennedy: "The President's commitment to the American worker, including tax reform, has given our company the opportunity to expand, providing bonuses and permanent pay increases to our employees, and to train apprentices, interns and new employees. I was honored to be the first CEO in South Carolina to the President's Pledge to America's Workers, and I couldn't be prouder of the chance to share our story with businesses from across the country during today's White House event."
Nextgen Software Founder Marius Sticlaru: "As experts in data analytics, our mission is to bring all our expertise to markets where we can contribute to lowering the skills gap between data security professionals, no matter the industry or size of the company they work for."
Ohio Electric Cooperatives: "Ohio's Electric Cooperatives is pleased to partner with the Trump Administration to cultivate, enhance, train, and develop our workforce to better enable them to both serve our consumer-members, as well as to prepare our staff for the future of the ever-evolving utility industry and consumer-service arena."
Panorama Holdings President Jane Wu: "The best timing to invest in the U.S. is now. We are very confident about the American economy and business environment. We hope to create a win-win situation with job creation and return on investment."
Quiet Professionals President and CEO Andrew Wilson: "Quiet Professionals is a rapidly growing defense contracting business. Based on our continued success, strong economy and projected growth into the large business space; we plan to add at least 500 new employees over the next 5 years. This includes a minimum of 40 new employees at our Tampa HQ: and 460 new employees at various locations throughout the United States and abroad."
Sheet Metal & Air Conditioning Contractors National Association Vince Sandusky: "Our association pledges to boost our skilled, state-of-the-art apprenticeship programs to provide opportunities for at least 15,000 additional apprentices. For decades thousands of our member corporations have invested hundreds of millions of dollars to train a highly skilled workforce at DoL Certified Joint Apprenticeship Training Centers (JATCS) jointly directed by labor and management trustees. In response to the Workforce Pledge effort led by the White House and Department of Labor that effort will intensify and grow over the coming five years and beyond. We are committed to the ongoing training and safety of our workforce and are proud to serve our communities by providing high paying jobs with a full complement of benefits."
Siemens USA CEO Barbara Humpton: "Hundreds of thousands of people across all 50 states benefit from Siemens' continued investment in its U.S. operations and its commitment to training, retraining and upskilling workers across the country. Having invested more than $40 billion in the U.S. in just the last 15 years, Siemens is committed to strengthening its American operations, home to 50,000 employees and more than 60 manufacturing, digital and R&D sites."
Smith South Plains Ford Lincoln Owner Annette Sykora: "We are committed to training our next generation of automotive technicians and know that having a solid workforce is key to public safety and personal mobility. Together with our local schools, we can ensure a bright future for automotive students and the industry as a whole."
SMG Chairman Vivek Chaand Sehgal: "SMG, India's largest auto parts manufacturer, plans to invest over $500 million in new foreign direct investment to invigorate the U.S. auto parts manufacturing sector. Through this investment, the company will hire an additional 1,000 new jobs over the next ?ve years across six different states, Alabama, Michigan, Illinois, Indiana, Ohio and New York."
Soft Galaxy Inc. Chief Operating Officer Anamaria Popa: "After more than 19 years of excellency in Research and Development, Soft Galaxy aims to launch its innovative and patented technologies as startups on US soil, creating new jobs and offering to the world access to amazing technology breakthroughs."
Tampa Downtown Partnership President and CEO Lynda Remund: "The Downtown Partnership is committed to investing in both students and workers through our programs and initiatives that improve the quality of life for everyone visiting, working, and living in Downtown Tampa."
Textron Executive Director of Government Affairs Mary Claire Murphy: "Textron is pleased to invest in the advancement of our nation's current and future workforce and is proud to have a long history of creating enhanced career opportunities for our 36,000 employees. Our pledge today reaffirms our commitment to ensuring our skilled workforce and business leaders are prepared to build and deliver world-class products like Cessna aircraft and Bell rotorcraft well into the future."
TSMC Technology Inc. Vice President Cliff Hou: "TSMC Technology Inc. will continue to enhance our US workforce, increasing the semiconductor design ecosystem support we provide to US companies to unleash their innovations."
U.S. Concrete Chairman, President and CEO William Sandbrook: "U.S. Concrete, like so many in our industry, are in dire need of skilled workers to reap the full benefits available from continued strong economic growth. The president's workforce initiative and commitment to the education of the American worker is a real solution to our continuing employment challenges. U.S. Concrete whole heartedly supports the Trump administration's commitment to providing trained workers to partake in high-paying jobs available through skilled development. We are proud to endorse, support and participate in President Trump's Executive Order on Workforce Development."
UiPath Learning Senior Vice President Tom Clancy: "UiPath is pleased to be part of 'Our Pledge to America's Workers'. UiPath Academy will help enable a broad range of digital workers in one of the fastest growing software technology markets, Robotic Process Automation. UiPath is committed to helping America's workers be successful in The Future of Work."
Verisafe Limited Director Hannah Milward: "Verisafe has pledged to make an ongoing contribution to the safety, security and wellbeing of American workers. Verisafe is additionally committed to opening opportunities for partnerships and employment for American Citizens."
Visa Senior Vice President Robert Thomson: "Visa has an unwavering commitment to developing the best possible leaders and making sure we're growing the best possible talent we can."
Vistra Communications: "We are committed to increasing job opportunities over the next 5 years. We will continue to enhance our diverse team of seasoned professionals, with college educated entry level positions and internship opportunities as well as best in class experienced professionals."
Wanxiang America Corporation Project Manager Daniel Li: "Education is power, and it is the way to advance American workers into the future. It is critical to have the talented workforce in place as we continuously grow our businesses in United States and move our businesses to the next level."
YCI Methanol One CEO Chaoliang Yao: "The YCI Methanol One, LLC project will hire approximately 125 employees between now and the first quarter of 2020. Our corporate office will employ about 25 individuals while our methanol facility located in St. James, Louisiana will employ about 100. We have 55 full time employees between the two sites at this time. While we are still in the construction phase, plans are already being made to expand our operations. Our people will be the key to our project's success. Hiring and retaining good people is important. A quality training program for our employees is crucial. YCI is committed to providing this quality training. We are committed to our team, our business and our community."
  