
    WASHINGTON – Today, President Barack Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key Administration posts:
•      David A. Montoya, Inspector General, Department of Housing and Urban Development
•      Chester Culver, Member, Board of Directors of the Federal Agricultural Mortgage Corporation
The President also announced his intent to appoint the following individuals to key Administration posts:
•      Roland Garcia, Member, Board of Visitors to the United States Naval Academy
•      Timothy Johns, United States Commissioner, Commission for the Conservation and Management of Highly Migratory Fish Stocks in the Western and Central Pacific Ocean
President Obama said, "I am pleased to announce that these experienced and committed individuals have agreed to join this Administration, and I look forward to working with them in the months and years ahead."
President Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key Administration posts:
David A. Montoya, Nominee for Inspector General, Department of Housing and Urban DevelopmentDavid A. Montoya is currently Special Agent in Charge in the U.S. Postal Service Office of Inspector General, Western Area Field Office in Denver, Colorado. From 2000 to 2005, he served as Assistant Inspector General for Investigations in the Office of Inspector General at the Department of the Interior. From 1998 to 2000, Mr. Montoya was Deputy Director of the Criminal Investigation Division of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), where he helped lead EPA's national environmental criminal enforcement program. He also served EPA's Criminal Investigation Division as Special Agent in Charge of Investigations, as Criminal Investigator/Desk Officer in Washington, DC, and as Criminal Investigator/Special Agent for the Denver Field Office from 1993 to 1998. Prior to joining EPA, Mr. Montoya worked as a Criminal Investigator/Special Agent for the U.S. Department of Justice, Drug Enforcement Administration from 1987 to 1993. He is a member of various professional organizations, including the Federal Law Enforcement Officers' Association, the International Association of Financial Crimes Investigators, the Rocky Mountain Special Agents in Charge Association, and the Inspector General Council for the Rocky Mountain Region. Mr. Montoya has also completed law enforcement and senior executive leadership programs with the Federal Executive Institute, the Center for Creative Leadership, and the International Association of Chiefs of Police. He holds a B.S. in Criminal Justice from the University of Texas at El Paso.
Chester Culver, Nominee for Member, Board of Directors of the Federal Agricultural Mortgage Corporation
Chet Culver served as the 41st Governor of Iowa from 2007-2011. He is currently the Manager and Director of the Chet Culver Group, a renewable energy consulting firm and bi-partisan issue advocacy group. In 1998, he was elected Iowa's 29th Secretary of State, a position to which he was re-elected in 2002. Before entering elective politics, Governor Culver taught government and history at Roosevelt and Hoover High Schools in Des Moines, Iowa, and also coached football and basketball. He began his career as an environmental and consumer advocate in the Iowa Attorney General's Office. Governor Culver earned a B.A. in Political Science from Virginia Polytechnic University and an M.A. in Teaching from Drake University.
President Obama announced his intent to appoint the following individuals to key Administration posts:
Roland Garcia, Appointee for Member, Board of Visitors to the United States Naval Academy
Roland Garcia is a founding Shareholder and Management Group Member of the Houston office of Greenberg Traurig, LLP. He was the first Latino to be elected President of the Houston Bar Association, the fifth largest voluntary bar association in the country. He currently serves on the Texas Supreme Court Rules Advisory Committee, is the Vice President of the Harris County Hospital District Foundation and is a former President of the Association for the Advancement of Mexican Americans, the largest non-profit social service and educational agency in Texas dedicated to assisting low-income Hispanic youth and families. Mr. Garcia was President of the Hispanic Bar Association and President of the Dispute Resolution Center. He was an elected Director of the State Bar of Texas, and was a Trustee of the Texas Bar Foundation. In addition, Mr. Garcia is a member of the Community Commission of the Houston Community College System to help meet the higher educational needs of the community. Mr. Garcia has received numerous honors for his work, including the Hispanic Bar Association's Lifetime Achievement Award. He received his B.B.A. from Baylor University with Honors, his J.D. from South Texas College of Law and is a graduate of the United States Marine Corps OCS/PLC Officer Training Program.
Timothy Johns, Appointee for United States Commissioner, Commission for the Conservation and Management of Highly Migratory Fish Stocks in the Western and Central Pacific Ocean
Timothy Johns currently serves as Senior Vice President for the Hawaii Medical Services Association. Previously, Mr. Johns was the President and Chief Executive Officer of the Bishop Museum in Honolulu, Hawaii, the leading natural and cultural history museum in the Pacific. Mr. Johns previously served as Director and Chair of the Hawaii Department of Land and Natural Resources (DLNR), where he oversaw all programs conducted to protect and manage the natural and cultural resources of the State, including aquatic resources. During his tenure with DLNR, Mr. Johns served on the Western Pacific Regional Fishery Management Council, the U.S. Coral Reef Task Force, and the Kahoolawe Island Reserve Commission. He also currently serves as the Chair of the Northwestern Hawaiian Islands Coral Reef Ecosystem Reserve Advisory Committee and as a member of the Bishop Museum's Board of Directors. Mr. Johns received a J.D. from the University of Southern California Law Center, an M.A. from USC, and a B.A. from University of California, Santa Barbara.
  