
    Pool Reports by Emily Goodin, Daily Mail 



Sent:
Reports:




July 19, 2022 13:03

FLOTUS pool report #1 - gathering for Zelenska arrival
Pool has gathered for the arrival of Ukrainian First Lady Olena Zelenska, who will be greeted by Dr. Jill Biden, at approximately 1:30 pm.
This is now open press but pooler will send color.
Here is background courtesy of the East Wing:
Today, the First Lady will meet with Olena Zelenska, the First Lady of Ukraine, who is visiting Washington, D.C. to highlight the human cost of Russia’s aggression against Ukraine. They will discuss the United States’ continued support for the government of Ukraine and its people as they defend their democracy and cope with the significant human impacts of Russia’s war, which will be felt for years to come.
The First Lady will welcome Mrs. Zelenska upon her arrival to the White House and the two will hold a private meeting. After that, the First Lady will moderate a roundtable/host an expanded bilateral meeting featuring Second Gentleman Douglas Emhoff, U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations Linda Thomas-Greenfield, Deputy Administrator of the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) Isobel Coleman, Under Secretary of State for Political Affairs Toria Nuland, and U.S. Surgeon General Vivek Murthy. They will discuss how the United States can continue to alleviate suffering through support and humanitarian assistance to the Ukrainian people, and the need to hold accountable those responsible for war crimes and other atrocities.
The meeting follows Dr. Biden’s visit to Ukraine on Mother’s Day, where she met with Mrs. Zelenska as well as Ukrainian mothers and children who fled their homes due to Russia’s aggression. Secretary of State Antony Blinken and USAID Administrator Samantha Power both met with Mrs. Zelenska yesterday to emphasize the United States’ continued commitment to support Ukraine and address the long-term psycho-social impacts of Russia’s war.


July 19, 2022 13:42

FLOTUS pool report #2 - POTUS joins arrival
Ukrainian First Lady Olena Zelenska arrived at the White House via the South Lawn at 1:31 pm.
POTUS and FLOTUS greeted her. POTUS carried a bouquet of flowers.
An American flag and Ukrainian flag flanked the doors of the White House.
More tk


July 19, 2022 13:48

FLOTUS pool report #3 - more details on arrival
More details on arrival.
The president and First Lady walked out of the White House diplomatic room as Olena Zelenska’s car pulled up.
President Biden carried a bouquet of yellow, sunflowers, blue hydrangeas, and white orchids, per the East Wing.
He handed the bouquet to Mrs. Zelenska.
Dr. Biden and Mrs. Zelenska hugged. Dr. Biden wore a blue dress with flower pattern. Mrs. Zelenska wore a white dress suit.
The arrival took about a minute. No one spoke and no one answered shouted questions about what they would discuss. They posed for a photo and then walked inside together.
Pool is now going inside for a bilat meeting hosted by Dr. Biden.


July 19, 2022 14:14

FLOTUS pool report #4 - bilat meeting
Pool was brought into the Blue Room for the bilat meeting at 1:49 pm.
Introductions of both delegations was being made. Dr. Biden and the Americans sat on one side of a square table. Mrs. Zelenska and the Ukrainians - including the Ukrainian ambassador to the U.S. - sat on the other side.
Dr. Biden made opening remarks. Please double check against transcript.
"So ever since I saw you Mother's Day. … One of the things that I said when I came back was you cannot go into a war zone come back and feel the sorrow and pain."
"And you introduced me to so many refugees, the mothers and the children, and we spend some time with them. So, I know you're here with us, again, to talk about mental health issues. And so I came back and I talked to my team - I think you received my letter about what we're doing to help with mental health for the mothers and the children who have really suffered such tragedy and atrocities. So I've been working on it. The team has been working on it."
"Every one of our agencies that's been working on telling you specifically what they've done."
Note: Second Gentleman Doug Emhoff came in after introductions were made and stood by FLOTUS.
"There he is," Dr. Biden said.
The table had flower arrangements similar to what POTUS gave Mrs. Zelenska - yellow sunflowers and blue hydrangeas with white orchids mixed in. Name cards were at each person's position as were glasses of water and note pads.
Pool was taken out after FLOTUS opening remarks.
They did not answer shouted questions.
The meeting featured Second Gentleman Douglas Emhoff, U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations Linda Thomas-Greenfield, Deputy Administrator of the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) Isobel Coleman, Under Secretary of State for Political Affairs Toria Nuland, and U.S. Surgeon General Vivek Murthy.
And that's all from your FLOTUS pool.


July 19, 2022 14:24

FLOTUS pool report #5 - quote clarification and arrival video
Here is a cleaner version of one of Dr. Biden's quotes:
"One of the things that I said when I came back was you cannot go into a war zone and come back and not feel the sorrow and pain."
Also here is the video of the arrival, courtesy of our friends at CSPAN: https://www.c-span.org/video/?521821-1/president-lady-olena-zelenska-whi...



  