
    Memorandum for the Chair of the National Capital Planning Commission
Subject: National Children's Island
Today I signed into law H.R. 1508, the National Children's Island Act, which authorizes the development of a family-oriented recreation park and a children's playground on islands in the Anacostia River in the District of Columbia. The creation of this project has had the strong support of the District of Columbia government. In addition, the National Park Service has worked for many years to improve this area. The project will bring much needed development into the area.
While it is my intent that this opportunity be made available to the children of the District of Columbia, I am also strongly committed to making sure that any development of these islands is consistent with the preservation of the natural and cultural resources on the site and in the vicinity. I will be looking to the National Capital Planning Commission (NCPC) as the Federal watchdog to achieve these dual goals.
The Act specifies that any development plan be reviewed and approved by the NCPC. I expect the NCPC to be guided by the following principles:
• The project should fully conform to the design, height, density, and other environmental and developmental safeguards contained in the plat filed in the Office of the Surveyor of the District of Columbia under S.O. 92-252.
• The NCPC should fully comply with the requirements of the National Environmental Policy Act in reviewing the proposed project and associated structures, including transportation components. In doing so, the NCPC should ensure that all members of the affected community and other interested parties have ample opportunity to participate in the development of alternatives and to review and comment on the analysis of impacts. The NCPC should carefully consider all alternatives, including the no action alternative, in its review. Its ultimate goal should be to ensure appropriate development on the site consistent with protection of the historical and natural resources found in the area, protection of the neighborhood, and preservation of the integrity of nearby parkland.
• The NCPC should ensure that the design is consistent with the principles of environmental justice contained in Executive Order No. 12898 of February 11, 1994.
I have also directed the Secretary of the Interior, the Secretary of Defense, and the Administrator of General Services to assure that the NCPC fully complies with the recommendations detailed above. They shall seek to assure that all reviews done emphasize children's recreation and education, the protection and restoration of the Anacostia watershed, and the public interest of the adjacent neighborhoods.
These endeavors should result in a plan that will serve the economic and recreational needs of the District of Columbia in a fashion compatible with the preservation of important natural and cultural resources.
WILLIAM J. CLINTON
  