
    WASHINGTON – Today, President Barack Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key Administration posts:

David Danielson – Assistant Secretary for Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy, Department of Energy
Dot Harris – Director of the Office of Minority Economic Impact, Department of Energy

President Obama said, "I am honored that these talented individuals have decided to join this Administration and serve our country. I look forward to working with them in the months and years to come."
President Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key Administration posts:
David Danielson, Nominee for Assistant Secretary for Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy, Department of Energy 
Dr. David Danielson has been a Program Director at the U.S. Department of Energy's Advanced Research Projects Agency-Energy (ARPA-E) since 2009. Prior to joining ARPA-E, Dr. Danielson was a clean energy venture capitalist at General Catalyst Partners, a Boston-based venture capital fund. He co-founded the firm's clean energy investment practice and helped build and grow startups in various clean energy technology areas including solar power, wind power, advanced biofuels, bio-gas, carbon capture and storage, and advanced lighting. Dr. Danielson is a co-founder of the New England Clean Energy Council. He has authored more than 20 scientific articles in the field of advanced materials. While at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), Dr. Danielson was the founder and President of the MIT Energy Club, and was a founding Director of the MIT Energy Conference. For his work in building a strong multidisciplinary energy community at MIT, he was awarded the Karl Taylor Compton Prize, MIT's highest student award. Dr. Danielson holds a B.S., summa cum laude, in Materials Science and Engineering from the University of California, Berkeley and a Ph.D. in Materials Science and Engineering from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
Dot Harris, Nominee for Director of the Office of Minority Economic Impact, Department of Energy
Dot Harris is currently President and CEO of Jabo Industries, LLC, a minority-woman owned management consulting firm concentrated primarily in the energy, information technology and healthcare industries. Previously, Ms. Harris was an executive at General Electric Company (GE) and held a number of leadership positions in GE's Energy and Industrial Systems businesses, including Global Marketing Leader for GE's Industrial Services business. Before joining GE, Ms. Harris was an officer and Vice President of Operations & Production for ABB Service, Inc. She also spent twelve years as Field Services Engineer and Services Manager with Westinghouse Electric Company. Ms. Harris currently serves as the National Secretary for the American Association of Blacks in Energy. She holds a B.S. in Electrical Engineering from the University of South Carolina in Columbia, SC and a M.S. in Technology Management from Southern Polytechnic State University in Marietta, GA.
  