
    Pool Reports by Austin Landis, Spectrum News 



Sent:
Reports:




July 14, 202207:55

VP pool report #1 - Checking in from JBA
Good morning! I'll be your pooler for the vice president's trip to Florida today, with stops in Orlando and Tampa.
Pool has been tested and cleared through security and is gathered at Joint Base Andrews for the VP's arrival. She is scheduled to take off from here at 8:30 AM.
More from her schedule below. Please reach out with any questions.
At 11:30AM EDT, the Vice President will give remarks at the 70th Boule of Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority, Incorporated. These remarks at the Orange County Convention Center will be pooled press.
At 1:50PM EDT, the Vice President, joined by Secretary Xavier Becerra of the Department of Health and Human Services, will hold a roundtable with Florida legislative leaders to discuss reproductive rights. This meeting at the Orange County Convention Center will have a pool spray for opening remarks.
At 4:00PM EDT, the Vice President will depart Orlando, FL en route Tampa, FL. This departure from Orlando International Airport and arrival at MacDill Air Force Base will be pooled press.
At 5:05PM EDT, the Vice President will engage with servicemembers representing United States Central Command (CENTCOM), United States Special Operations Command (SOCOM) and the 6th Air Refueling Wing to express appreciation and gratitude for their work on behalf of our entire Administration and the American people. This meeting at MacDill Air Force Base will be pooled press.
At 5:55PM EDT, the Vice President will meet and receive a briefing from CENTCOM Commander, General Michael E. Kurilla, SOCOM Commander, General Richard D. Clarke, and other CENTCOM and SOCOM leaders. This briefing at the CENTCOM Headquarters will have a pool spray for opening remarks.
At 6:55PM EDT, the Vice President will tour the CENTCOM Joint Operations Center. This tour will have a pool spray at the top.



July 14, 202208:47

VP pool report #2 - Wheels up at JBA
The VP arrived on M2 at 8:32 AM.
She walked over to greet service members and boarded the plane at 8:35 AM.
She is wearing all white, the ritual colors for her sorority, AKA, as they gather in Orlando today. A handful of her AKA sorority sisters on staff are also wearing white.
Health and Human Services Secretary Becerra arrived earlier at 8:24 AM and boarded the plane before coming back down to wait for the VP.
Greeters:- Lt. Colonel Richard "Rick" Hulun, 89th Maintenance Group Deputy- Secretary Xavier Becerra, U.S. Department of Health & Human Services
The VP came back to speak to press for about 5 minutes OTR before takeoff. Wheels up for Orlando shortly, as of 8:45 AM.



July 14, 202211:07

VP pool report #3 - VP comments in Orlando
AF2 was wheels down in Orlando at 10:38 AM. The VP deplaned at 10:56 and spoke briefly to pool under the wing about why she's in Florida today.
"When I think about the issue of choice, the President and I feel very strongly that we have a duty and obligation to protect the American people, including American women, and that includes women in Florida."
"Here in Florida, just most recently, a law was passed effective, I believe, July 1, that is going to allow the government to impose its decisions on the women of Florida, instead of giving women the right to choose to make decisions about some of the most personal matters a woman could have to deal with."
"I'm here to speak with these leaders to talk about what we can do together to ensure that we use all that is within our capacity to protect the women of America, which includes women in Florida."
Full Otter: https://otter.ai/u/VtSkjRP7fJZ_sY8pnuKqv8cSMdg
Rolling for the Orange County Convention Center as of 11:01.
Background on the first stop below:
On Background From WH Official

Today, Vice President Harris is traveling to Orlando and Tampa, Florida. In Orlando, she will deliver remarks at the 70th Boule of Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority, Incorporated. Afterwards, she will be joined by HHS Secretary Xavier Becerra and they will meet with Florida legislative leaders to discuss reproductive rights. After, Vice President Harris will travel to Tampa, where she will visit MacDill Air Force Base.

Remarks at the 70th Boule of Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority, Incorporated

In her remarks at the 70th Boule of Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority, Incorporated, Vice President Harris will highlight the work of Alpha Kappa Alpha on the frontlines of progress throughout history and in present times. She will also reflect on her many years in the Sorority and how the purpose of Alpha Kappa Alpha has influenced her work today.
Vice President Kamala Harris is a member of Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority and was initiated through the Alpha Chapter at Howard University.




July 14, 202212:31

VP pool #4 - Remarks to AKA's 70th Boule
The program began at 11:44 and the VP was introduced at 11:47 to thousands of cheers and yells from AKA sisters here. Will Tweet video if possible.
The crowd is nearly 12,000 (11,979 is the official count) members from all over the country and the world, per VP staff. Everyone is in white, some with pink and green accessories.
On the dais with the VP are 80 members of AKA — former international presidents, members of sorority leadership and committee chairs. Pink tables and pink and green decorations framed the stage with a VPOTUS lectern in the middle.
"It was certainly nice of God to create Kamala Harris," her introducer, outgoing AKA International President Dr. Glenda Glover, began.
VP highlights:
"It is so good to be here. I can't even explain how this feels."
"The sisterhood remains a key part of who I am today."
She says she has a signed copy of a book from one of AKA's founders in her West Wing office.
Even when the sorority was founded, she said, 89 people were lynched across the country.
"Our advocacy has been the history of moving the highest levels of government into action."
"We will always fight for what our communities need and the best of who we are as a nation."
In 2020, the VP says AKA sorors showed up for her and President Biden and "you showed up for America."
She mentions her work on the Black maternal health crisis and the summit she held at the White House, plus the work to expand postpartum Medicaid coverage to 12 months. She also spoke about the child tax credit, the work to remove lead from pipes, broadband access, police reform and racial bias in home appraisals.
She talked about AKA's work to raise millions of dollars for HBCUs and the Biden administration's investment in HBCUs.
"As the first Vice President to be a graduate of an HBCU, I'm particularly proud of that."
Big applause when the VP mentions the recent confirmation of Justice Ketanji Brown Jackson.
"Thank you sorors, thank you. Because this is the progress that you fought for."
"We must do it again this November," she says to applause.
She called for the removal of the liability shield for gun manufacturers and a renewed assault weapons ban.
"The road to get there, to see it through, is not going to be easy. It's never been easy."
"These so-called leaders in this state and other places across the country making it more difficult for people to vote."
"So-called leaders who are in the process of punishing doctors and criminalizing women who want to make decisions for themselves."
"We need two additional U.S. senators" to protect voting rights, abortion rights, she says, and people up and down the ballot to protect those rights.
She calls on AKA to "continue to activate" and organize coalitions around the country.
Full recording: https://otter.ai/u/vqMhU8jWSwodC_msVhewgD4acbQ
VP ended at 12:23 and the pool is holding until the roundtable on reproductive rights. She shook some hands and left the stage to meet with sorors.



July 14, 202213:56

VP pool report #5 - Roundtable on reproductive rights
Pool entered the small conference room at 1:44 and the VP was already seated at the head of three tables in a rectangle formation, with Sec. Becerra to her left and five other panelists.
"We collectively agree, as do most Americans, there are some things the government should just not interfere with."
"Many of us also agree that this is not an issue that requires any person to change their faith, or their belief system."
Becerra thanked the VP for coming to Florida where there are people fighting for reproductive rights.
"We at HHS hope to put in action the instructions you and the president have given us."
Otter: https://otter.ai/u/_goYzabGvuvdYMG96vrz8yHulCM
Pool was led out at 1:51 as Dr. Schickler began to speak.
Background and participants, from a WH Official:

The convening of Florida state legislators in Orlando follows meetings about reproductive rights that the Vice President held with health care providers, faith leaders, constitutional law and privacy experts, advocates, Attorneys General, and state legislators from across the country.
During the meeting, the Vice President will convey the Administration's commitment to protecting access to reproductive health care, including abortion access, and she will encourage the legislators to continue fighting to protect reproductive rights in Florida.
Florida currently has a 15 week ban on abortion, with no exception for rape, incest, or human trafficking. The law was signed into law by Governor DeSantis in April and went into effect on July 1, 2022. Extremist legislators in Florida are calling for even further restrictions.


Roundtable participants

Secretary Xavier Bacerra, U.S. Department of Health & Human Services
Senator Lauren Book, Florida Senate Minority Leader (D-FL)
Representative Fentrice Driskell, Florida House Minority Leader
Representative Anna Eskamani, Florida State Representative
Senator Victor Torres, Florida Senate
Dr. Robyn Schickler, Planned Parenthood of Southwest and Central Florida






July 14, 202215:38

VP pool #6 - Wheels up for Tampa
The VP's motorcade rolled away from the convention center at 3:08. Pool did not see the VP enter her vehicle.
She took a photo with her local team for this stop at the airport and then boarded AF2 here in Orlando at 3:26.
Wheels up for Tampa shortly as of 3:36.
Background on the next stop from a WH official:

The Vice President will travel to MacDill Air Force Base in Tampa, where she will meet and receive a briefing from United States Central Command (CENTCOM) Commander, General Michael E. Kurilla, United States Special Operations Command (SOCOM) Commander, General Richard D. Clarke, and other CENTCOM and SOCOM leaders. She will also receive a tour of the CENTCOM Joint Operations Center.
The Vice President will also have an opportunity to engage with servicemembers representing CENTCOM, SOCOM, and the 6th Air Refueling Wing at MacDill Air Force Base. The Vice President is looking forward to meeting them and will express appreciation and gratitude for their work on behalf of our entire Administration and the American people.
In her briefings, the Vice President and the CENTCOM and SOCOM leaders will discuss current CENTCOM and SOCOM operations, regional and global dynamics, and how CENTCOM and SOCOM are executing the Administration's priorities through their missions, including in supporting Ukraine against Russia's aggression.
The Vice President's visit also reinforces the President's current travel to the Middle East, which is CENTCOM's area of responsibility They will discuss the strong partnerships we have across the region – including our iron-clad commitment Israel's security – and how the President's trip is advancing the interests of the American people through these partnerships and continued regional integration, which CENTCOM and SOCOM support.




July 14, 202216:44

VP pool report #7 - Wheels down in Tampa
AF2 was wheels down at 4:15 at MacDill Air Force Base here in Tampa.
The VP deplaned at 4:29, having changed clothes into a black pantsuit and black heels.
She walked straight over to a large hangar to greet about 3-4 dozen service members, lined up in front of a U.S. Air Force plane. She spoke to them for about 10 minutes but pool was at a distance and could not hear her remarks. She shook the individual hands of about 5 men and women before pool was ushered away, talking to them one on one. Will Tweet photo.
The VP was greeted here at the base by:

General Michael E. Kurilla, Commander, Central Command (CENTCOM)
General Richard D. Clarke, Commander, Special Operations Command (SOCOM)
Dr. Colin H. Kahl, Under Secretary of Defense for Policy, U.S. Department of Defense

Pool is now holding for short ride to CENTCOM headquarters. The next pool report may be delayed as phones are not allowed inside.



July 14, 202218:39

VP pool report #8 - CENTCOM headquarters and wheels up
The VP entered CENTCOM headquarters at 5:07, led by generals Clarke and Kurilla and saluted by troops from various parts of the military.
She then entered a secure conference room and sat at a large semi circle desk with military leadership to her left and right. She gave remarks but phones were not allowed inside. A screen in front of her showed photos of missions and troops and read: "US Special Operations Command / Command Brief to Vice President of the United States"
Some quotes and notes:
The VP said she was "pleased to be here on the ground with you" and that she was "here to highlight and uplift the work of CENTCOM and SOCOM" which are "critical to our national security."
The US military is the "strongest and best fighting force in the world."
She said she would speak with military leaders about their current missions and other additional resources they might need. She thanked the families of service members.
She said this visit to CENTCOM was especially key as POTUS is in the Middle East and she said the purpose of that trip was to make clear the role that the US plays in that part of the world.
She said it was key because of shipping lanes and energy resources.
She mentioned that it was the 35th anniversary of SOCOM and called them our "quiet professionals."
She also said their work was key in the Russian invasion of Ukraine, especially training Ukrainian soldiers.
"We talk about you guys all the time" she said of the military — in the situation room, in the Oval Office.
"We could not follow through" on US commitments and relationships "without you" and she said their mission remains critical.
After her private briefing with commanders, VP later entered their operations center at 6:04. Computers and desks on multiple levels lined the room.
Screens on the wall showed maps of the Middle East showing shipping routes, with one member of CENTCOM staff pointing out to pool China and Russia's proximity to their operation area. He also pointed out the key energy shipping lanes like Suez Canal and Strait of Hormuz.
A "First Alert" screen showed updates such as violence in the Middle East, road closures in Baghdad, and ISIS news.
A clock on the wall showed the time in Tampa, Zulu, Qatar/Iraq, Iran, Pakistan, Afghanistan.
When VP entered, She shook some service members' hands before heading to the middle of the room to stand between the CENTCOM and SOCOM commanders before pool was ushered out. She was going to get a tour of the operations center.
She exited headquarters about 15 minutes later.
On the tarmac, VP shook hands of the generals and leaders here (same greeters as before) and boarded AF2 at 6:30.
Wheels up for JBA shortly.
Adding details to previous report from a WH official:

During the greet with service members, the Vice President met with 40 base troops; 15 CENTCOM troops, 15 SOCOM troops, 10 MacDill air wing troops.


In her briefings, the Vice President and the CENTCOM and SOCOM leaders will discuss current CENTCOM and SOCOM operations, regional and global dynamics, and how CENTCOM and SOCOM are executing the Administration's priorities through their missions, including in supporting Ukraine against Russia's aggression.




July 14, 202221:05

VP pool report #9 - Wheels down at JBA
AF2 was wheels down at JBA at 8:45 PM, just as the sun was setting here.
The VP deplaned at 8:57 and she waved to press before turning to walk over and board M2, lifting off at 9:05.
Greeter: Lt. Colonel Richard "Rick" Hulun, 89th Maintenance Group Deputy




  