
    "We are only one-half year into Donald Trump's presidency. In that very brief period, we have seen the nation's economy re-energized, illegal migration plummet, the NATO alliance revitalized, and the president order new measures to secure America from terrorists."
America is back with the first 6 months of Trump
By Sebastian Gorka
The Hill
July 20, 2017
Donald Trump won the presidential election against Hillary Clinton with a very simple message: I will fix the economy, build the wall, and destroy ISIS.
In this, he channeled the simplicity of Ronald Reagan's own election platform. Then-Gov. Reagan promised to restore Americans' faith in our nation, to fix the economic "malaise" of the Carter years, and to defeat the Soviet Union once and for all.
For the Trump campaign, and now the Trump administration, our approach is summarized under the "Make America Great Again" motto, or #MAGA.
...
The first principle of our administration is plain for all to see. America is back. And under President Trump, so is American leadership. American influence is a global good and this recognition is a first step toward advancing our leadership, which in turn can help set the conditions for the security and prosperity of the United States and its allies. The era of apologizing for America is over.
We have openly rejected the passive and reactionary ideas central to the Obama years, especially "leading from behind" and "strategic patience." It is our key assumption that a world without American leadership, in which the president does not forcefully stand up for the eternal truths upon which the Republic was founded, is a very dangerous world.
...
We are only one-half year into Donald Trump's presidency. In that very brief period, we have seen the nation's economy re-energized, illegal migration plummet, the NATO alliance revitalized, and the president order new measures to secure America from terrorists.
Most striking of all is what President Trump has managed to achieve in just 25 weeks with regard to the totalitarian menace that is the Islamic State.
Just as America was crucial to the defeat of the totalitarians of the Third Reich, and to the ideological defeat of the communist threat posed by the Soviet Union, we will defeat the newest totalitarian threat to the West, radical Islamic terrorism under the leadership of the current American president. This is but the beginning of translating MAGA onto the global stage.
Read the full op-ed here.
  