
    Pool Reports by Alex Gangitano, The Hill 



Sent:
Reports:




July 26, 202110:32

pool report #1 - gathering for remarks on ADA anniversary 
Good morning! Your pooler has been tested and is gathering for the Rose Garden event for the anniversary of the Americans with Disabilities Act on this very hot Monday.
President Biden and Vice President Harris are delivering remarks commemorating the 31st anniversary of the bill, which Biden co-sponsored as a senator. Second Gentleman Emhoff will also attend.
At 2 p.m. this afternoon, Biden will participate in a bilateral meeting with Iraqi PM Al-Kadhimi in the Oval Office.
Today's briefing is scheduled for 12:30 p.m.
Call and text with any questions!



July 26, 202111:13

pool report #2 - ADA anniversary event 
In attendance at the Rose Garden:Speaker Pelosi, Leader Hoyer (who spoke to the pool before the event), Leader McCarthy, Sen. Pat Leahy, Sen. Bob Casey, Rep. Bobby Scott, HUD Sec. Fudge.
White House staff is handing out water and cold towels to attendees.
Emhoff just arrived and we are waiting on VPOTUS and POTUS.?Call and text with any questions!



July 26, 202111:27

pool report #3 - Harris remarks on ADA anniversary 
The event for the Americans with Disabilities Act anniversary has started and is open press.
?Harris:"The ADA gives all Americans the opportunity to determine their own future. Self determination, which I believe the government must facilitate, that is the impact of the ADA and after all, the promise of America."
Called the ADA a very important beginning but said there is more work to be done.?"We must invest in in home and community based services.""The President and I will continue to fight with you to make America more accessible to all people
VPOTUS introduced a Maryland artist Tyree Brown, who thanked Biden and Harris for being advocates for the disability community.
Background from the WH:
There are approximately 60 attendees, comprised of disability advocates, current and former Members of Congress (including those who originally sponsored the ADA), and other key stakeholders in the disability community, including:Speaker Nancy Pelosi (CA-12)Secretary of Housing and Urban Development Marcia FudgeSecretary of Education Miguel CardonaSenate President Pro Tempore Patrick Leahy (VT)Senator Bob Casey (PA), Chairman, Senate Special Committee on AgingMajority Leader Steny Hoyer (MD-05)Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy (CA-23)Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03), Chairman, House Committee on Education and LaborCongressman Jim Langevin (RI-02), Co-Chair, Bipartisan Disabilities CaucusFormer Congressman Tony CoelhoActing Assistant Secretary Katherine Neas, Office of Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Department of Education
Call and text with any questions!



July 26, 202111:47

pool report #4 - Biden remarks on ADA anniversary 
President Biden, to open his remarks, said he just got off the phone with former Sen. Tom Harkin and days prior spoke with former Sen. Bob Dole.
"31 years ago after its passage, many Americans have never lived in a world without the ADA."
"we passed the ADA and made a commitment to building a nation for all of us, all of us."
"Perhaps most importantly, we did it together. This was a democratic bill signed by a republican president."
He said he won't forget the moment the bill passed on the Senate floor and that the bill was personal to Harkin and Dole.
"For our nation, the ADA is more than a law as well, it's a testament to our character as a people, our character as Americans."
"Today, too many Americans still face barriers"
"My first day in office, I was proud to sign an executive order establishing a government wide commitment to advancing equity, including people with disabilities"
"This last year the entire nation saw just how vital our caregivers are"
Called on Congress to eliminate the "discriminatory" sub minimum wage provision.
Announced a new effort for Americans with long term COVID Impacts, so symptoms of long covid could qualify as a disability under the ADA.
"We made important progress but we will have work to do."
"I want to thank you for your continued efforts to build an America for everyone."
Biden then signed a proclamation recognizing the 31st anniversary of the bill being signed into law.He called those dealing with disabilities an "inspiration".
"Pat, you were there at the time. Get your rear end up here," Biden said to Leahy before the signing. McCarthy took Leahys camera for photos.
"We have to," Biden responded when press asked how the administration will get the unvaccinated vaccinated.
"I'm always optimistic," Biden when asked if the bipartisan infrastructure deal will pass.
Background from the WH:
Prior to his remarks, the President will be introduced by Tyree Brown.
Onstage with the President during the Proclamation signing:The Vice PresidentHouse Speaker Nancy Pelosi (CA-12)Majority Leader Steny Hoyer (MD-5)Former Representative Tony CoelhoTyree Brown, artist



July 26, 202112:03

pool report #5 - briefing moved to 1 & more from ADA event 
The briefing will now begin at 1 p.m.
Some remarks from Hoyer, talking to press before the event:
Do you think they'll be enough bipartisan support to pass the infrastructure bill?
"The infrastructure bill," he said smiling. "I think we need to pass an infrastructure bill. We passed a very good infrastructure bill, which had great attention to both mass transit and to climate. I think that was the preferable bill. The Senate bill is much more limited, has a few more dollars in it, $200 plus million more dollars, that's a lot of dollars. So it's a good bill too but it doesn't deal with the scope, so we'll see. Mr. DeFazio chairs our committee and was very proud of the bill that we passed."
Are you confident you'll get something through both?
"I'm confident we'll get something."
"I think both Republicans and Democrats want to pass an infrastructure bill you say, I'm not going to do this, I'm not going to do that, let's let it play out."
Do you anticipate the schedule for members changing to give more time?
"Anticipate would overstate. I'm aware of the fact that the Senate is the Senate and God knows when they're going to do what they're going to do. We will have to be ready for whatever they do. I do anticipate leaving on Friday but I don't think the Senate will be, have done something that will require us to stay next week."
video here: https://twitter.com/AlexGangitano/status/1419675737582354435
Some remarks from McCarthy, talking to press before the event:
Why do you think they were the best choices? (referring to Banks & Jordan on Jan. 6 committee)
"Now, the question would be, you know you got a Chairman Bennie Thompson. I heard some people raise that people objected to the electorate, right? You know Bennie Thompson objected to the election of Bush?"
"Did you know Raskin objected to the election of Trump?"
"Did yuu know the chairman of the full committee is suing the president? Did you know the chairman of the committee, Bennie Thompson, believes Republican senators are equal to terrorists? And should be on the terrorist watch list? I think people have a right to sit there and ask questions."



July 26, 202113:02

pool report #6 - 2 minute warning for briefing 
2 minute warning issued at 1:02 p.m.



July 26, 202114:07

pool report #7 - pool gathering for meeting with Iraqi PM Al-Kadhimi 
Pool is gathering now for? President Biden's bilateral meeting in the Oval Office with His Excellency Mustafa Al-Kadhimi, Prime Minister of the Republic of Iraq.
Call or text with any questions.



July 26, 202114:39

pool report #8 - meeting with Iraqi PM Al-Kadhimi 
Pool went into the Oval Office at 2:20pm.
Remarks from President Biden:
"I'm honored to welcome the prime minister, we've known each other for some time"
He mentioned his son Beau was in Iraq for a year with the Army national guard.
"My administration is committed to strengthening that partnership."
"They'll be there quickly," Biden said about COVID vaccines sent to Iraq.
"We're anxious to making sure the election goes forward in October."
He handed over the floor to Al-Kadhim.
"I'd like to thank the American people on behalf of all Iraq's people," Al-Kadhim said.
"Today our nation is stronger than ever."
"I'm looking forward to working with you, Mr. President."
Pool yelled questions at the President.
"Whoa, hang on a second, if you want to talk about Iraq, ask me a question," Biden said.
How many troops would you like to see in Iraq by the end of this year and how has the relationship changed?
"We've been talking a lot, our foreign ministers, our cabinet members have been talking, we're looking forward to seeing an election in October. We're working very hard with the Iraqi government to make sure the UN and the DCC, we have oversight, that there's full and fair elections."
"I think things are going well, our role in Iraq will be as a, dealing with not, it's just to be available, to continue to train, to assist, to help and to deal it ISIS as it arises but we're not going to be, by the end of the year, in a combat zone."
He was asked about the VA mandating coronavirus vaccine for health workers.
"You are such a pain in the neck but I'm going to answer your question because we've known each other for so long," Biden said to NBC's Kelly ODonnell.
"Yes Veterans Affairs is going to in fact require, that all doctors working in facilities are going to have to be vaccinated."
Pool left at 2:26pm.
Call or text with any questions.



July 26, 202115:28

pool report #9 - full remarks from POTUS on Iraq 
Full remarks from President Biden:
"I'm honored to welcome the prime minister, we've known each other for some time and welcome to the White House, welcome to the Oval, Mr. Prime Minister. Iraq has been a vital partner for the United States for some time now in the Middle East and I've engaged deeply in Iraq for my entire career back in the Senate, as vice president and as president."
He mentioned his son Beau was in Iraq for a year with the Army national guard.
"The sacrifices that so many have made to build the US Iraq partnership has been real and is consequential. My administration is committed to strengthening that partnership, Mr. Prime Minister. And the US-Iraqi strategic dialogue is about commitments that expand our cooperation on issues like health care, climate, energy. A matter of fact, I want to tell you, the half a million, 500,000 doses of COVID vaccine we're sending, I was told you were told they wouldn't come for a. while. They'll be there in a couple of weeks. They'll be there quickly."
"We support strengthening Iraqi's democracy and we're anxious to make sure the election goes forward in October."
"We're also committed to our security cooperation, our shared fight against ISIS is critical for the stability of the region and our counter terrorism operation will continue, even as we shift to this new phase we're going to be talking about."
During pool questions:
"We've been talking a lot, our foreign ministers, our cabinet members have been talking, we're looking forward to seeing an election in October. We're working very hard with the Iraqi government to make sure the UN and the GCC, we have oversight, that there's full and fair elections."
"I think things are going well, our role in Iraq will be as a, dealing with not, it's just to be available, to continue to train, to assist, to help, and to deal with ISIS as it arises but we're not going to be, by the end of the year, in a combat mission."
Let me know any questions!



July 26, 202115:40

pool report #10 - background on meeting with Iraqi PM Al-Kadhimi 
Here is some background from the White House:
The expanded bilateral meeting began at 3:26 PM. Attending the President's expanded bilateral meeting with His Excellency Mustafa Al-Kadhimi, Prime Minister of the Republic of Iraq:
U.S. ManifestThe PresidentT. H. Antony Blinken, Secretary of StateT. H. Jake Sullivan, National Security AdvisorT.H. Matthew Tueller, U.S. Ambassador to IraqT. H. Brett McGurk, Deputy Assistant to the President and Coordinator for the Middle East and North Africa, National Security CouncilT. H. Barbara Leaf, Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for the Middle East and North Africa, National Security CouncilMs. Zehra Bell, Director for Iraq and Syria, National Security Council
Iraq ManifestH.E. Mustafa Al-Kadhimi, Prime Minister of the Republic of IraqH.E. Fuad Hussein, Deputy Prime Minister for Foreign Affairs and Minister of Foreign AffairsH.E. Jumaah Enad, Minister of DefenseH.E. Raid Juhi, Chief of Staff to the Prime MinisterH.E. Nazar Al-Khirullah, Senior Under Secretary for Bilateral RelationsH.E. Fareed Yasseen, Ambassador of the Republic of Iraq to the United StatesMr. Ahmed Najati Agha, Director of the Private Office of the Prime Minister



July 26, 202116:01

pool report #11 - meeting with Iraqi PM Al-Kadhimi ended 
From the White House: The expanded bilateral ended at 3:50 PM.
The meeting was from 3:26 to 3:50 p.m.



July 26, 202116:08

pool report #12 - lid 
A lid was called at 4:07pm.
Have a good evening!




 
Pool Reports below by Nadia Bilbassy-Charters, Al-Arabiya 



Sent:
Reports:




July 26, 202114:42

Foreign pool #1 POTUS Oval office meeting with Iraq PM Mustafa Al-Kadhimi 
Pool entered the oval office at 2:20 PM . Both men were seated, no other officials were in the room except for a State Department Arabic translator. Prime minister Kadhimi spoke in English.
POTUS took my question on Iraq and on how many troops will be left by year end. He confirmed that no combat US troops will be left in Iraq by the end of the year. Will send the exact quote shortly. He also took Kelly's questions on Veteran affairs.



July 26, 202115:03

Foreign pool #2 POTUS with Iraq Prime Minister 
Prime Minster Kadhimi said that the relationship with the US is stronger than ever, he thanked the American people on behalf of the Iraqi people, and said he is looking forward to working with the President .
He is expected to stay in Washington for three working days . He is also meeting with congressional leaders on the hill.
On answering my question on troops withdrawal and relationship with Iraq he said:
"We've been talking a lot, our foreign ministers, our cabinet members have been talking, we're looking forward to seeing an election in October. We're working very hard with the Iraqi government to make sure the UN and the DCC, we have oversight, that there's full and fair elections."
"I think things are going well, our role in Iraq will be as a, dealing with not, it's just to be available, to continue to train, to assist, to help and to deal it ISIS as it arises but we're not going to be, by the end of the year, in a combat mission*."
[* APP Note: The word "zone" originally appeared in this report and was corrected to read "mission" by the pool reporter.]




  