
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
July 10
In the afternoon, the President traveled from Los Angeles, CA, to Pasadena, CA. Later, he returned to Washington, DC.
July 12
In the morning, the President met with Prime Minister John Howard of Australia in the State Dining Room for a working visit.
The President announced his intention to appoint Jared L. Cohon as Chair and member of the Nuclear Waste Technical Review Board.
July 13
In the morning, the President traveled to Miami Beach, FL. In the evening, he traveled to Coral Gables, FL, and later, he returned to Washington, DC.
The President announced his intention to appoint Lee Haney as Chair of the President's Council on Physical Fitness and Sports.
July 14
In the afternoon, the President traveled to Baltimore, MD, and later, he returned to Washington, DC.
The President announced his intention to nominate David N. Greenlee to be Ambassador to Paraguay.
The President announced his intention to appoint Ronald Morriss as a member of the National Drought Policy Commission.
The President announced his intention to appoint Nancy M. Zirkin as a member of the Board of Trustees of the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars.
The White House announced that the President will travel to Little Rock, AR, on August 6-10 and September 22.
July 15
In the afternoon, the President met with Crown Prince Khalifa bin Zayid of the United Arab Emirates in the Oval Office.
In the evening, the President and Hillary Clinton went to Camp David, MD.
The White House announced that the President will travel to Lansing, MI, on July 22.
The White House announced that the President welcomed the successful outcome of talks between Argentina and the United Kingdom concerning the Falklands/Malvinas and other South Atlantic islands.
July 16
In the morning, the President traveled to Des Moines, IA.
In the afternoon, the President visited the Amos Hiatt Middle School.
In the evening, the President attended a dinner for Senator Tom Harkin at a private residence. Later, the President returned to Camp David, MD.
The President announced his intention to nominate Andrew Fish to be Assistant Secretary for Congressional Relations at the Department of Agriculture.
  