
    President Bush to Nominate Seven Individuals to Serve in His Administration
President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate seven individuals to serve in his administration.
The President intends to nominate Wendy Jean Chamberlin to be Assistant Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development for the Bureau for Asia and the Near East. A career member of the Foreign Service, she most recently served as U.S. Ambassador to the Islamic Republic of Pakistan. Chamberlin's past assignments at the Department of State include service as political/military officer in the Office of Israel and Arab-Israeli Affairs, Director of Press and Public Affairs in the Near Eastern Affairs Bureau and Special Assistant for South Asian Affairs to the Under Secretary for Political Affairs. Her past overseas assignments include tours in Laos, Morocco, Zaire and service as Deputy Chief of Mission in Kuala Lampur. Chamberlin earned a bachelor's degree from Northeastern University and a Master's degree from Boston University.
The President intends to nominate the following five individuals to serve as Members of the Board of Trustees of the Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy:
Malcolm B. Bowekaty of New Mexico for the remainder of a six-year term expiring October 6, 2006Robert Boldrey of Michigan for the remainder of a six-year term expiring May 26, 2007Herbert Guenther of Arizona for a two-year term Richard Narcia of Arizona for the remainder of a six-year term expiring August 25, 2006Bradley Udall of Colorado for the remainder of a six-year term expiring October 6, 2006
The President intends to nominate Richard Healing to be a Member of the National Transportation Safety Board to represent Safety Engineering for the remainder of a five-year term expiring December 31, 2006. Healing is presently Director of Transportation Safety and Security at the Battelle Memorial Institute's Washington Operations. He previously served as Director of Safety and Survivability for the Department of the Navy. Prior to his civilian service to the Department of the Navy, he was Coast Guard Liaison Officer to the Secretary of the Navy.
Healing retired with the rank of Captain after serving in the U.S. Coast Guard Reserve for 29 years and receiving 27medals and awards. He earned a bachelor's degree from Worcester Polytechnic Institute and a M. B. A. from the University of Bridgeport.
  