
    The Vice President announced that more than 1 million new households have signed up for the Affordable Connectivity Program since the GetInternet.gov launch in May
On Thursday, Vice President Kamala Harris traveled to Charlotte, North Carolina and announced that more than 1 million new households have signed up for the Affordable Connectivity Program (ACP), which was put in place through the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law. The program saves working families $30 per month off their internet bill, and provides a one-time $100 discount off a laptop, desktop computer, or tablet.
As part of her announcement, the Vice President sent letters to all 50 Governors encouraging them to spread the word and to accelerate enrollment in the Affordable Connectivity Program in their states.
Read more below:
CNN: Exclusive: White House touts 1 million affordable broadband program sign-ups[Betsy Klein, 7/21/2022]
Vice President Kamala Harris is set to announce Thursday that 1 million American households have signed up for broadband internet credits through the Affordable Connectivity Program -- a provision of the bipartisan infrastructure bill passed last year -- since the introduction of GetInternet.gov in May. […]
Harris on Thursday is sending letters to all 50 governors "encouraging them to spread the word in their states to enroll," Harris' senior adviser for communications Herbie Ziskend said.The letter, obtained by CNN, includes step-by-step guidance on best practices and ways states can help with outreach.
"Our administration is doubling down on our enrollment push and we hope you will continue your work to sign up households in your state," Harris writes.
Los Angeles Times: 1.6 million California households enrolled in affordable internet program[Erin Logan, 7/21/2022]
The White House is set to announce on Thursday that 1.6 million Californian households have enrolled in an affordable internet program that was made possible by the bipartisan infrastructure law President Biden signed in November.
The affordable internet program enables households to cut their monthly internet bill by up to $30 per month.
Households on tribal lands can cut their costs by up to $75 per month. California has the highest number of enrollees of any state, according to the White House.
La Noticia: Vicepresidenta Harris promueve Internet de bajo costo durante visita a Charlotte[Kayla Young, 21 de julio de 2022]
La vicepresidenta Kamala Harris visitó Charlotte hoy por segunda vez en 8 meses con el tema del acceso a Internet de alta velocidad y a bajo costo entre las prioridades de su agenda.
Durante un recorrido al Centro Carole Hoefener en el centro de la ciudad, la vicepresidenta promovió el Programa de Conectividad Asequible (ACP en inglés). Esta iniciativa busca reducir los costos de Internet para los usuarios. La Casa Blanca estima que alrededor de 30 millones de estadounidenses carecen de acceso a banda ancha.
UPI: Kamala Harris: 1 million households signed up for broadband program[Doug Cunningham, 07/21/2022]
Vice President Kamala Harris traveled to North Carolina on Thursday to announce that 1 million new households have signed up to save on home broadband through the Affordable Connectivity Program. […]
Harris called on governors to join the Biden administration's "all of government" enrollment drive to enroll households in the program.
The White House statement said North Carolina committed to emailing 5 million households to make people aware of the program benefits.
Spectrum News: 'It is a necessity': Harris touts broadband expansion in North Carolina[Rachel Tillman, 07/21/2022]
"I will begin with a simple and obvious truth: In the 21st century, high-speed internet is not a luxury, it is a necessity," Harris said from the Carole Hoefener Center. "It's as basic as, what we have come to accept over generations, how electricity is a necessity."
The broadband program makes it easier for Americans to get access to internet services by offering up to a $30 monthly discount – or $75 for those who live on Tribal lands – on internet bills. Those eligible can also receive a $100 discount towards the purchase of a laptop, desktop computer or tablet, so long as the family can contribute between $10 and $50 towards the overall price.
CBS Minnesota: VP Kamala Harris pens letter to Gov. Tim Walz, touting federal high-speed internet service program[WCCO Staff, 7/21/2022]
Vice President Kamala Harris on Thursday sent a letter to Minnesota Gov. Tim Walz in an effort to get out the word that there are hundreds of thousands of Minnesotans who are eligible for a federal high-speed internet program. […]
Harris says that, based on the latest data, there are around 607,000 eligible Minnesotans who have not yet claimed their ACP benefit.
Las Vegas Review-Journal: White House urges low-income Nevadans to tap into affordable internet program[Gary Martin, 7/21/2022]
Harris touted the American Connectivity Program during a tour of a community computer laboratory in Charlotte, North Carolina.
The vice president also sent a letter to Nevada Gov. Steve Sisolak seeking "your help to keep that progress going and to ensure all eligible families in Nevada sign up to save."
Sisolak in May launched "High Speed NV" which uses state and federal funds to close the digital divide in Nevada and provide affordable internet to all state residents by 2029. The federal funds are provided by the bipartisan infrastructure law. […]
CPR News: More Colorado households could be eligible for affordable internet under bipartisan infrastructure law[Caitlyn Kim, 7/21/2022]
According to the Biden Administration, 150,702 households in Colorado have enrolled in the American Connectivity Program, which provides high speed internet for $30 a month for low-income families or $75 a month on Tribal lands. But the White House estimates as many as 607,000 Coloradans could still be eligible.
Democratic Vice President Kamala Harris is writing to Gov. Jared Polis to ask him to help accelerate enrollment for the program in Colorado.
"Our Administration is using every tool in our toolbox to get the word out about the ACP — including launching GetInternet.gov, a one-stop-shop where Americans can check their eligibility, find a plan that meets their needs, and sign up," she wrote.
NBC 5: Thousands of Vermonters could save on Internet bill, thanks to federal program[Liz Strzepa, 7/22/2022]
The White House said there are 100,000 Vermont households that qualify for ACP. […]
"High-speed Internet is not a luxury, it's a necessity," Vice President Kamala Harris said at a news conference on Thursday.
This week, Harris announced the rollout of GetInternet.gov, which allows Americans to see if they qualify for ACP.
"When you log on there you can check to see if you qualify. You can find a plan and you can sign up," Harris said.
The Providence Journal: Some Rhode Islanders can get $30 off their internet bill. Here's how[Patrick Anderson, 07/21/2022]
As of Thursday 37,332, Rhode Islanders have enrolled in the broadband discount program, according to the Biden administration, a fraction of those that are eligible.
Vice President Kamala Harris was in North Carolina promoting the internet discount program Thursday and sent a letter to Rhode Island Gov. Dan McKee asking him to promote the program here.
Des Moines Register: White House: 66,000 Iowa households enrolled in discount program for high-speed Internet, more wanted[Tyler Jett, 07/21/2022]
About 66,000 Iowa households have signed up for discounts on high-speed Internet service since a federal program was launched in May, according to figures a White House spokesperson shared with the Des Moines Register this week.
The release came as Vice President Kamala Harris plans to urge more residents to sign up for the program during a visit to North Carolina on Thursday, the spokesperson said. Harris also sent Gov. Kim Reynolds and leaders in other states a letter urging them to promote the program, which allows some residents to receive a $30-a-month break on high-speed Internet, and in some cases, free service.
South Dakota Public Broadcasting: Vice president urges Noem to help SD residents gain access to affordable internet service[Megan Feighery, 7/21/22]
A federal program to help low-income households afford broadband internet has enrolled 11,069 South Dakota households.
Vice President Kamala Harris is sending a letter to Gov. Kristi Noem urging her to help accelerate enrollment in the state. The administration has launched aGetInternet.gov, a one-stop-shop where Americans can check their eligibility, find a plan that meets their needs, and sign up.
"We need your help to keep that progress going and to ensure all eligible families in South Dakota sign up to save," Harris writes in the letter to Noem. "Please help lower costs for more families by spreading the word in your state and by entering data-matching agreements to drive enrollment in your state."
Montana Public Radio: Biden administration urges Gianforte to push broadband assistance program[Shaylee Ragar, 7/21/22]
More than 25,000 households in Montana are already enrolled in the Affordable Connectivity Program, according to the White House. The program was created by a $14 billion infrastructure package Congress passed last year.
Vice President Kamala Harris wrote a letter to Gov. Greg Gianforte this week saying as many as 151,000 Montana households are still eligible for discounted internet service. […]
Harris asked Gianforte to promote the She also asked the state to use existing programs, like Medicaid or free and reduced lunches at schools, to identify and reach out to eligible residents.
Additional Coverage:
Fortune: Eligible Americans can now get $30 off their monthly internet bill with this federal programFierce Telecom: Affordable Connectivity Program sees 1M signups - White HouseJuneau Empire: 90K Alaska households are eligible for internet assistance —only 10K are taking advantageWNCT: Vice President Kamala Harris talks affordable internet in CharlotteWFAE: Harris promotes lower-cost internet during Charlotte visit102.5 The Block: 'It's Not Real Until It Hits The Streets': VP Harris Touts Benefits Of Affordable Connectivity ProgramNebraska Public Media: White House Pushing Reduced Internet Cost Program for Nebraskans
  