
    Biden Outraises Trump for Second Straight Month as Grassroots Energy Surges
Tonight, Biden for President (BFP), the Democratic National Committee (DNC), and their joint fundraising committees announced that they raised a combined $141 million in June, marking the campaign's best fundraising month ever. In total, the campaign and DNC raised $282.1 million last quarter.
This haul means for the second consecutive month we have outraised Donald Trump's campaign and demonstrates a surge in grassroots energy to elect Joe Biden. In June, 68% of last month's donors were brand new to our campaign and the overall average online donation was $34. More than 2.6 million also signed up to join our campaign.
"It's clear that voters are looking for steady leadership, experience, empathy, compassion, and character — and they'll find all of these qualities in Vice President Joe Biden. This has been our argument since day one of this campaign, and it will be our winning argument in November," Biden for President Campaign Manager Jen O'Malley Dillon wrote to supporters.
Below is the full message sent to supporters:
Hi, it's Jen, Joe Biden's campaign manager. I'm writing to you with an incredibly exciting update.
While we're still counting, it looks like you did it again! I am proud to announce that in June -- with your support -- and the support of so many others -- we raised over $141 million.
Not only is this a jaw-dropping sum of money, but we once again outraised Donald Trump!! And this is before we have our final numbers!
In total, our campaign and the DNC raised $282.1 million for the quarter. It's a true testament that the people are standing behind Joe Biden.
And our most powerful tool in winning this election is you. You may have been with VP Biden since day one, or you may have just joined us, but, either way, we're so glad that you're here. Here's a look at how you and your fellow Team Joe supporters are powering this campaign:
68% of our donors last month were brand-new to our campaign.Educators continue to be the most common occupation among our donors.Over 2.6 million people joined our email list last month alone.The energy for Joe Biden is electric, and I'm so thankful for each of you that chipped in.
And now we are entering our final full quarter of the general election. So if you can, will you chip in so we can ensure we have a strong July?
It's clear that voters are looking for steady leadership, experience, empathy, compassion, and character -- and they'll find all of these qualities in Vice President Joe Biden. This has been our argument since day one of this campaign, and it will be our winning argument in November.
And Elana, we can't lose sight of what is at stake. As the VP likes to say, we are in a battle for the soul of this nation, and the need to elect Joe Biden has never been more apparent. The coronavirus. Our economy. Combating institutional racism. All that and more is on the line. We absolutely cannot afford a president who only cares about himself. We urgently need a leader who will bring us together, overcome this emergency, and build us back stronger than before.
I'm looking forward to the work we're going to accomplish together, and to the day we're going to win this thing.
All my best,
Jen
Jen O'Malley DillonCampaign ManagerBiden for President
  