
    To the Congress of the United States:
1. I hereby report to the Congress on the developments since my last report of January 11, 1991, concerning the national emergency with respect to Libya that was declared in Executive Order No. 12543 of January 7, 1986. This report is submitted pursuant to section 401(c) of the National Emergencies Act, 50 U.S.C. 1641(c); section 204(c) of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act ("IEEPA"), 50 U.S.C. 1703(c); and section 505(c) of the International Security and Development Cooperation Act of 1985, 22 U.S.C. 2349aa - 9(c).
2. Since my last report on January 11, 1991, the Libyan Sanctions Regulations (the "Regulations") 31 C.F.R. Part 550, administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control ("FAC") of the Department of the Treasury, have been amended. This amendment, published on May 6, 1991, 56 FR 20541, adds an appendix to the Regulations containing a list of organizations determined to be within the term "Government of Libya" (Specially Designated Nationals of Libya). A copy of this amendment is attached. Since January 11, 1991, there have been no amendments or changes to orders of the Department of Commerce or the Department of Transportation implementing aspects of Executive Order No. 12543 relating to exports from the United States and air transportation, respectively.
3. During the current 6-month period, FAC made 15 decisions with respect to applications for licenses to engage in transactions under the Regulations, as well as 4 amendments to previously issued licenses. Several of these licenses were issued to former employees of the People's Committee for Students of the Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, also known as the PCLS, to permit them to engage in court actions against the PCLS to recover salary, severance pay, and other unpaid benefits.
4. Various enforcement actions mentioned in previous reports continue to be pursued, and investigations of possible violations of the Libyan sanctions were initiated. The recent amendment to the Regulations listing organizations determined to be Specially Designated Nationals ("SDNs") of Libya publicly identifies organizations located outside Libya that have been determined by FAC to be owned or controlled by, or acting on behalf of, the Government of Libya. For purposes of the Regulations, all dealings with the organizations listed will be considered dealings with the Government of Libya. All unlicensed transactions with these persons, or in property in which they have an interest, are prohibited. The initial listing of 48 Libyan SDNs is not intended as a static list, but will be augmented from time to time as additional organizations or individuals owned or controlled by, or acting on behalf of, the Government of Libya are identified.
5. The expenses incurred by the Federal Government in the 6-month period from December 15, 1990, through June 14, 1991, that are directly attributable to the exercise of powers and authorities conferred by the declaration of the Libyan national emergency are estimated at $254,700. Personnel costs were largely centered in the Department of the Treasury (particularly in the Office of Foreign Assets Control, the Office of the General Counsel, and the U.S. Customs Service), the Department of State, and the Department of Commerce.
6. The policies and actions of the Government of Libya, such as support for terrorism and international destabilization and the pursuit of offensive weapons systems, particularly chemical weapons, continue to pose an unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security and foreign policy of the United States. I shall continue to exercise the powers at my disposal to apply economic sanctions against Libya as long as those measures are appropriate, and will continue to report periodically to the Congress on significant developments as required by law.
George Bush
The White House,
July 9, 1991.
  