
    TALLAHASSEE, Fla. — Governor Ron DeSantis joined Tomi Lahren on Outkick tonight. The highlights are below.
Watch the full interview HERE.
HIGHLIGHTS
On cocaine being found at the White House:
"I have long believed, I think a lot of us have believed, that the Biden administration has been blowing it on a lot of fronts. But I guess it's a little bit more literal than even I had thought. I could tell you in Florida, my wife and I, we have a six, five, and a three-year-old running around the Governor's Mansion. So that's not something that we see. We do have to occasionally get slime out of the carpet and get marker off the wallpaper. But that's the extent of our adventures at the Governor's Mansion."
On the need to reverse Bidenomics:
"Bidenomics means you pay more for everything in life. If you look at the difference between when he took office and now, how much does it cost to get a mortgage? Interest rates are significantly higher. How much is your grocery bill? How much does it cost to buy a new car? So all the staples of life are increasingly becoming unaffordable for average Americans, and it is a direct result of bad federal policy. Borrowing and printing trillions of dollars- the Fed printing trillions of dollars over the last few years sparked significant inflation. Of course, Biden throws gasoline on the fire, not only with his spending policies, but also a how he's using the bureaucracy. He's kneecapping American domestic energy industry, he's trying to do things like DEI and ESG in the economy, which is not good for opportunity or not good for growth. And he's trying to force everybody into an electric vehicle. So all that means is it's going to increasingly be more difficult for the average family to make ends meet. And so as President, we're going to rip up all of Biden's economic policies, and we're going to restore the economy to something where people can actually succeed again."
On protecting parents' rights and the innocence of children:
"Well I'll tell you, I think this is going to be a blockbuster issue. I think it's somewhat of a sleeper issue because the media doesn't really understand the potency. But when you start talking about people like Biden and his ilk, what they're saying is, 'these are all of our kids,' that it is not just your kids, it's quote 'ours.' And I'm just thinking to myself, wait a minute, my wife and I have a six, five, and three-year-old; they are your kids too? No, no, they are our kids. We are the parents, we have the fundamental right to direct their education and upbringing. And here is the thing, that is a view of the primacy of parents, that is not just a Republican view, it is not just an Independent view. There are a lot of Democrat parents who agree with us on this. So I think the Left's playing with fire when they think that they can use schools and other institutions to supersede the rights of parents... So we have to reestablish the rights of parents, not just in Florida, which we've done, but all across the country. And I think you have a Left-wing movement in this country that is fundamentally hostile to the rights of parents. The media will say somehow by us standing up for parents, we're just trying to engage in a 'culture war.' Let me tell you, the Left is the one that's waging the culture war; we are simply standing up and fighting back against that and standing up for the freedom of our families to raise their kids the way they see fit."
  