
    President Donald J. Trump today announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key positions in his Administration:
Richard C. Parker of North Carolina, to be an Associate Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development for Legislative and Public Affairs.
Mr. Parker is currently the vice president of external affairs at Project Concern International. Previously he served as director of communications at the United States Global Leadership Coalition and worked with non-governmental organizations and Fortune 500 companies to educate Americans about global development. Mr. Parker also served as director of communications for the Peace Corps. He has held communications, marketing, and policy positions in other public, private, and non-profit sectors, including the United States Department of Health and Human Services, Levi Strauss & Company, and the American Red Cross. Mr. Parker holds a master's degree in public policy from Regent University and a bachelor's degree in business management from North Carolina State University.
Adrian Zuckerman of New Jersey, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Romania.
Mr. Zuckerman, a New York attorney, was admitted to the New York bar in 1984, and is a partner in the international law firm Seyfarth Shaw LLP. Previously, Mr. Zuckerman was co-head of national real estate and corporate services at Epstein Becker & Green, PC, New York, New York and prior to that the head of real estate, Lowenstein Sandler, LLP, New York, New York. He has also acted as the chair of a civil court judicial screening panel and as an arbitrator for the Real Estate Board of New York. Active in philanthropic and educational initiatives, Mr. Zuckerman is a member of the board of Kids Corp. and serves on the alumni board of New York Law School. Mr. Zuckerman immigrated to the United States from Romania at the age of 10 and is fluent in Romanian. He received his undergraduate degrees from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and his law degree from New York Law School.
---
President Donald J. Trump today announced his intent to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the Public Buildings Reform Board for terms of six years:

Angela B. Styles of Virginia
D. Talmage Hocker of Kentucky
Nick J. Rahall of West Virginia

  