
    "The single best tribute to our workers can be found in the unmatched quality and craftsmanship of the amazing products they bring from the blueprint to the storefront. 'Made in the USA' is a global symbol of unrivaled excellence." – President Donald J. Trump
AMERICA IS OPEN FOR BUSINESS: President Donald J. Trump's economic policies have made it the perfect time for businesses to grow and thrive right here in the United States. 

American business is booming due to President Trump's pro-growth agenda, headlined by historic tax cuts, deregulation, and trade actions defending American workers and businesses. 
Businesses are creating more and more jobs right here in the United States, with more than 3.2 million new jobs created since President Trump took office.  
The number of job openings surpassed the number of job seekers for the first time on record, which is great news for Americans who are unemployed and unable to find good, stable jobs. 

65 percent of Americans say now is a good time to find a quality job, according to Gallup. 


Gross domestic product grew by more than 3 percent in 2 quarters during 2017, and some forecasts expect growth to exceed 4 percent in the second quarter of 2018.  
Businesses are finally bringing money held overseas back to the United States as a result of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act signed into law by President Trump.  
Steel and aluminum producers are pouring in new investment and creating new jobs in the United States following the tariffs placed on those industries to protect our national security.  

AMERICAN MANUFACTURING IS BACK: President Trump's pro-growth agenda has rejuvenated American manufacturing. 

American manufacturers are more optimistic than ever and expect their winning streak to continue, according to a recent survey by the National Association of Manufacturers (NAM). 

Optimism among manufacturers hit an all-time high in NAM's most recent survey.  
Expectations for employment growth and capital investment over the next year also hit all-time highs in NAM's most recent survey.  


Approximately 344,000 manufacturing jobs have been created since the President took office.  
The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act was a win for American workers, cutting the top corporate tax rate and enabling businesses to fully write off capital investments for the next 5 years.  

FREE, FAIR, AND RECIPROCAL TRADE: President Trump has stood up for American workers and businesses that have paid the price for years of bad trade deals and unfair trade practices. 

Since taking office, President Trump has advocated for free, fair, and reciprocal trade that will benefit American workers and businesses and reduce our trade deficit. 
President Trump is taking tough actions to defend American businesses from China's unfair practices such as intellectual property theft and forced technology transfer. 
President Trump is renegotiating past deals to make sure they benefit American workers.

The Trump Administration secured key amendments to the trade agreement with South Korea, including provisions to increase American automobile exports. 


The Trump Administration placed tariffs on foreign steel and aluminum to protect our national security and defend our domestic industries. 
President Trump's Administration imposed tariffs to safeguard American manufacturers of washing machines and solar energy products from a flood of overseas imports. 

  