
    TALLAHASSEE, Fla. — Ron DeSantis joined Maria Bartiromo on Fox News' Sunday Morning Futures. See the highlights below.
Watch the interview HERE.
On reversing Bidenomics:
"I have no interest in managing the decline of this country. I want to reverse the decline. I think Bidenomics really harkens back to the late 1970s. In the malaise of the Jimmy Carter era, people were talking about there was an era of limits, people just needed to be willing to make do with less and Ronald Reagan said, no, that is not acceptable, we can do better. And I think we are in a similar situation here. Bidenomics, at the end of the day, means you pay more for everything, your standard of living declines, you have less freedom, but the government has much more power. They want to wield that power over the economy to advance a very liberal political agenda. You also see how this breeds corruption because you gotta bend the knee to be able to qualify for all these different programs, and it really empowers corporations who want to side with the regime. I think it fundamentally needs to be tossed out and I think we need to put our country on a much different path. For one thing, we need to stop spending so much money. You look at the last three plus years this government has borrowed, printed, and spent trillions and trillions of dollars. You go back to the COVID lockdowns, that really represented the biggest transfer of wealth from middle-class people to big corporations like Amazon and Apple that we have ever seen in American history. That really laid the seeds for the inflation that we are seeing. You have to get spending under control. You have to open up American domestic energy production. We have an abundance of resources. Stop doing the Green New Deal, and let's get serious about producing more oil and gas. You also have to bring this administrative state to heel, the bureaucracy in Washington is totally out of control. It is exerting power that is not therefore under the Constitution, and we need a President to come in and really, really clean house and I will do that on day one. And finally, I think we need to recognize this experiment with the CCP over the last three decades where they were granted "most favored nation" status put in the World Trade Organization, you know that has been a failure. We need independence from China. We cannot subcontract out key aspects of our industrial base to a country that does not have our interests at heart and that is our number one geopolitical threat, and we will get that done as well."
On countering communist China by revoking their most favored nation status:
"I think we are doing that. We probably need Congress, but I would take executive action as appropriate to be able to move us in that direction. Two, I would recognize that China is a threat. This idea of the happy talk that you hear from Yellen, it's a healthy competition. No, they're the number one geopolitical threat this country faces. And what we're going to do is, we are going to have a new commitment to hard power in the Indo-Pacific. The end of the day, what China respects is strength. And if you're showing strength and we have hard power to back it up, they're going to be much less aggressive. And my fear is under Biden is his weakness is really inviting China to do more, not just in their own theater, we see them doing more in our own hemisphere, here in the West. And so there will be a new day on day one. We are going to recognize the threat for what it is and we're going to take appropriate action."
On reviving economic growth:
"All of the Biden bureaucratic regulations will be tossed out. We are going to rip it all out. The Green New Deal, all these things they have done are bad for growth and we are going to curtail that. If you look at the agencies, Maria, the agencies and government have grown 50% since 2019. Is there any American that's somehow better off as a result of that? No, it's causing a negative impact. So, we are going to do that."
On fixing the education system:
"We need to reorient our education system. We need to stop producing degrees and things like zombie studies, where kids are going $100,000 in debt, and focus on more concrete skills that can be used in advanced manufacturing as we work to recapture and build a better industrial base. We have done that in Florida. We have doubled apprenticeships. We have created programs in our state colleges, so people don't have to go into debt; they can actually get concrete skills and be put in. When you increase productivity -- that is one of the best things you can do to drive down inflation, but it really starts with the education system. We need less woke indoctrination, and we need more tangible real-world skills applied."
On Mamas for DeSantis:
"We've had incredible support in the early states, building an organization, signing up the key people that you need to be able to compete in a place like Iowa. We just launched our Mamas movement. My wife was in Iowa with Governor Kim Reynolds launching that. Parents, and particularly moms, I think are going to be the secret weapon both in this primary and in the general election. Nobody has been a better champion for those folks than me."
  