
    Pool Reports by Christopher Megerian, Los Angeles Times 



Sent:
Reports:




July 28, 202110:13

In town pool report 1: White House arrival 
Hey everyone, your pooler is masked, tested and on the White House grounds.
We’ll be gathering shortly for POTUS departure from the South Lawn at 10:55. He’s heading to Pennsylvania.
This is the first full day that the White House has required masks indoors under new CDC guidelines. There are signs outside the press area reminding people to wear masks even if they’re vaccinated.



July 28, 202110:57

In town pool report 2: Waiting for departure
The pool has gathered for South Lawn departure at 10:54.



July 28, 202111:03

In town pool report 3: POTUS departure 
POTUS was not wearing a mask when he stepped out of the Oval Office. He waved to the pool but did not walk over. He stepped onto Marine One at 10:59. The helicopter lifted off at 11:03.
Per White House —
Departing with the President on Marine One:Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of StaffBrett McGurk, Deputy Assistant to the President & Coordinator for Middle East and North AfricaAshley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office OperationsStephen Goepfert, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the PresidentJeff Nussbaum, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Presidential Speechwriter



July 28, 202116:28

In town pool report 4: Gathering for arrival 
We gathered for POTUS return to the White House on the South Lawn at 4:27.



July 28, 202116:43

In town pool report 5: POTUS arrival 
Marine One touched down at 4:39. POTUS walked directly to the Oval Office wearing a mask. He did not stop to answer questions.



July 28, 202116:45

In town pool report 6: Lid
We have a lid at 4:44.




 
Pool Reports below by Seung Min Kim, The Washington Post 



Sent:
Reports:




July 28, 202111:07

Travel pool report #1 — background memo from WH
Greetings from a sunny Joint Base Andrews. Below is a background memo from the White House on POTUS travel to Lower Macungie Township, Pennsylvania, today.
BACKGROUND MEMORANDUM
TO: Out-of-Town Travel PoolFROM: White House Press OfficeDATE: July 28, 2021RE: Background for the President’s Visit to Pennsylvania
Proposed Buy American Rule & Mack Trucks 
· The President believes that when we spend American taxpayers’ dollars, it should support American workers and businesses. Today, the President will talk about the importance of his Buy American policy to support and grow more American companies; put more American workers in good-paying, union jobs; strengthen American manufacturing; and secure critical supply chains while confronting the climate crisis.
· During his trip, the President will visit the Lehigh Valley Operations Manufacturing Facility for Mack Trucks. There are more than 1,500 Mack trucks in the Federal fleets, used by both military and civilian agencies, and the President will receive a briefing on the Mack Trucks electrical dump truck. Every Mack truck built for the North American market gets its start at the company’s cab and vehicle assembly plant in Lower Macungie Township, Pennsylvania. The ability to build and sell these new trucks would be helped by the President’s proposed investments in Buy American production incentives for domestic EV manufacturing.
The Impact of the American Rescue Plan in Pennsylvania 
· More than $7.2 billion in state fiscal relief.
· More than $6.1 billion in local fiscal relief.
· More than $5.1 billion in relief for K-12 schools.
· Economic impact payments of up to$1,400 per person (above the $600 per person provided in December) for more than 8.1 million adults and 2.8 million children. This is 86% of all adults in the Commonwealth and 84% of all children in the Commonwealth.
· Additional relief of up to $1,600 perchild through the Child Tax Credit to the families of 2,368,000 children, lifting 140,000 children out of poverty.
· Additional relief of up to nearly $1,000through the Earned Income Tax Credit to 700,000 childless workers, including many in frontline jobs.
· Marketplace health insurance premiums that are $1,402 lower per month for a 60-year old couple earning $75,000 per year.
· Last week, the Department of Commerce announced $3 billion in American Rescue Plan funds to support transformational regional economic development strategies, strengthen workforce training systems, and help distressed communities recover from the pandemic. The funding will support coalitions of local government, labor and community-based organizations, and industry partners to plan and implement economic growth strategies, including through the creation or expansion of new sectors.
State of the Economy in Pennsylvania 
· Personal income surged 68% at an annual rate during the first quarter of 2021.
· The unemployment rate in Pennsylvania has fallen by almost half since June 2020 (13.3% to 6.9%).
· GDP increased 6% in the first quarter.
State of the Pandemic in Pennsylvania 
· Case rates have dropped by 91% since January 20, 2021.
· Death rates have dropped by 97% since January 20, 2021.
· Hospitalizations have dropped by 90% since January 20, 2021.
The Vaccination Program in Virginia 
· Number of Pennsylvania residents with at least one dose: 8,324,369 people (65% of the total population, 77.8% of the adult population).
· Number of Pennsylvania residents fully vaccinated: 6,645,348 people (51.9% of the total population, 62.5% of the adult population).
The Biden-Harris Administration’s Support for Pennsylvania Vaccinations 
· Pharmacies: As of July 25, there are 1,700 pharmacies in the Commonwealth administering COVID-19 vaccine. The majority of these pharmacies offer no-appointment, walk-in vaccinations. Over 3.6 million doses have been administered in the Commonwealth through pharmacies.
· Community Health Centers (CHCs): The Biden-HarrisAdministration is delivering vaccine doses directly to 22 CHCs in the Commonwealth, spanning over 50. As of July 26, 64,850 doses have been delivered directly to CHCs in the Commonwealth.
· Federal Funding: As of July 7, the Biden-HarrisAdministration has provided over $217 million in FEMA funding to Pennsylvania to support vaccination operations in communities across the Commonwealth. In addition, thanks to the American Rescue Plan, the Administration has provided more than $157 million to 42 community health centers to help expand medical services, including vaccinations, in underserved communities; and an additional $125 million in Rescue Plan funding to the Commonwealth and local public health departments, as well as community-based organizations in Pennsylvania, to support vaccine education and outreach efforts.
· Federal Personnel: To date, the Biden-Harris Administration has deployed 400 Federal personnel to community vaccination centers in the Commonwealth, with 11 currently deployed. The Administration has also provided Federal funding for over 430 National Guard members to support Pennsylvania’s overall COVID-19 response, with 70 currently supporting.
· Community Vaccination Centers: As of July 7, the Biden-HarrisAdministration has provided Federal support for 40 community vaccination centers in the Commonwealth, in the form of Federal funding, personnel, and/or equipment. 12 of these sites are currently operational. There was previously one federally-run community vaccination center, at the Pennsylvania Convention Center in Philadelphia, which administered over 328,500 shots.
The Need for the Bipartisan Infrastructure Framework in Pennsylvania 
Pennsylvania’s infrastructure received a C-grade on its Infrastructure Report Card. The Bipartisan Infrastructure Framework (BIF) would:
· Repair and rebuild our roads and bridges with a focus on climate change mitigation, resilience, equity, and safety for all users, including cyclists and pedestrians. In Pennsylvania there are 3,353 bridges and over 7,540 miles of highway in poor condition. Since 2011, commute times have increased by 7.6% in Pennsylvania and on average, each driver pays $620 per year in costs due to driving on roads in need of repair. The BIF will devote more than $312 billion to transform our nation’s transportation infrastructure and make it more resilient, including $110 billion for roads, bridges, and major projects. The BIF is the single largest dedicated bridge investment since the construction of the interstate highway system.
· Improve healthy, sustainable transportation options for millions of Americans. Pennsylvanians who take public transportation spend an extra 69% of their time commuting and non-white households are five times more likely to commute via public transportation. 22% of trains and other transit vehicles in the Commonwealth are past useful life. The BIF will modernize public transit with a $48.5 billion investment and will invest $66 billion in passenger and freight rail. The BIF is the largest Federal investment in public transit in history and is the largest Federal investment in passenger rail since the creation of Amtrak.
· Prepare more of our infrastructure for the impacts of climate change, cyberattacks, and extreme weather events. From 2010 to 2020, Pennsylvania has experienced 37 extreme weather events, costing the Commonwealth up to $10 billion in damages. BIF includes $47 billion to improve the resiliency of our infrastructure and support communities’ recovery from disaster. The BIF is the largest investment in the resilience of physical and natural systems in American history.
· Deliver clean drinking water to up to ten million American families and more than 400,000 schools and child care facilities that currently don’t have it. Over the next 20 years, Pennsylvania’s drinking water infrastructure will require $16.8 billion in additional funding. The BIF includes a $55 billion investment to ensure clean, safe drinking water is a right in all communities. The BIF would completely eliminate the nation’s lead service lines and pipes and represents the largest investment in clean drinking water and waste water infrastructure in American history.
· Connect every American to reliable high-speed internet. 5% of Pennsylvanians live in areas where, by one definition, there is no broadband infrastructure that provides minimally acceptable speeds. 44% of Pennsylvanians live in areas where there is only one such internet provider. 14% of Pennsylvania households do not have an internet subscription. Just as the Federal Government made a historic effort to provide electricity to every American nearly one hundred years ago, the BIF will make an historic investment to bring universal, reliable, high-speed, and affordable coverage to every family in America.
· Upgrade our power infrastructure.An average low-income family spends 8-10% of their income on home energy costs forcing tough choices between paying energy bills and buying food, medicine or other essentials. The BIF will represent the single largest investment in clean energy transmission in American history, building thousands of miles of new, resilient transmission lines to facilitate the expansion of renewable energy, including through a new Grid Authority.
How the Build Back Better Agenda Will Help Pennsylvanians 
· Higher Education: The average cost of a 2-year degree in Pennsylvania was almost $5,700 a year in 2019-2020. The Build Back Better agenda will provide at least two years of free community college to students across more than 20 colleges, including Dreamers. The Build Back Better agenda will also increase the maximum Pell Grant awards by nearly $1,500 to support the nearly 200,000 students in Pennsylvania who rely on Pell for their education. In addition, the plan will provide support to 24 Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs) and minority-serving institutions (MSIs) in Pennsylvania, including tuition subsidies for low- and middle-income students attending these institutions.
· Universal Pre-School: Today, only 104,000 or 36 percent of the 286,000 3-and 4-year-olds- in Pennsylvania are enrolled in publicly funded pre-school. The Build Back Better agenda will provide access to free, high-quality pre-school for all 3- and 4-year-olds in Pennsylvania, and ensure that all employees in funded pre-school programs are paid a $15 minimum wage and that funded programs provide compensation and benefits comparable to kindergarten educators to those with similar qualifications.
· Investing in Pennsylvania’s Teachers: In Pennsylvania there has been a 49 percent decline in new teacher supply. And while we know that having teachers reflect the communities they serve is critical to student performance, in Pennsylvania just 6 percent of teachers are teachers of color, while students of color make up 35 percent of the student population. The Build Back Better agenda will invest in our teachers so we address teacher shortages, improve teacher preparation, recruit and develop more teachers of color and leverage our veteran teachers to help support and train new teachers.
· Child Care: The average annual cost of child care at a center for a toddler in Pennsylvania is $11,400, meaning that the average two-parent household would have to spend 11 percent of their income on child care for one child every year. The Build Back Better agenda will enable low and middle-income families to pay no more than 7 percent of their income on high-quality child care, generating lifetime benefits for 289,000 children under 5 in Pennsylvania and helping working families make ends meet. And, it will boost compensation of child care workers, improving quality and supply of child care.
· Child Nutrition: Currently 16 percent of children in Pennsylvania live in food insecure households and 28 percent are obese. The Build Back Better agenda will ensure that the nutritional needs of Pennsylvania’s children are met by expanding access to free school meals to an additional 288,000 students and providing 947,000 students with resources to purchase food over the summer.
· Affordable Housing: In part due to a lack of available and affordable housing, nearly 720,000 renters in Pennsylvania are rent burdened, meaning they spend more than 30% of their income on rent. The Build Back Better agenda will make critical investments to increase housing supply and address the affordable housing crisis.
· Tax Cuts for Pennsylvania’s Families and Workers: The Build Back Better agenda will extend the American Rescue Plan’s Child Tax Credit (CTC), Child and Dependent Care Tax Credit, and Earned Income Tax Credit.



July 28, 202111:16

Travel pool report #2 — JBA arrival 
Joint Base Andrews, Md.
M1 arrived at Andrews Air Force Base at 11:12 a.m. POTUS disembarked at 11:14 a.m., not wearing a mask. He boarded AF1 without taking questions and we are wheels up shortly.
Note: we are on the small AF1 today so the usual caveats about cell service apply.
The WH sends the below traveler/greeter info:
Upon arrival at Joint Base Andrews, the President will be greeted by:Col. Matthew E. Jones, Commander, 89th Airlift Wing
Traveling with the President to Lower Macungie Township, Pennsylvania:Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of StaffBrett McGurk, Deputy Assistant to the President & Coordinator for Middle East and North AfricaKarine Jean-Pierre, Deputy Assistant to the President & Principal Deputy Press SecretaryAshley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office OperationsStephen Goepfert, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the PresidentTravis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip DirectorMeghan Hays, Special Assistant to the President & Director of Message PlanningJeff Nussbaum, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Presidential Speechwriter



July 28, 202112:02

Travel pool report #3 — Allentown arrival, gaggle 
Allentown, Pa. —
AF1 was wheels down at 11:53 a.m. at Lehigh Valley International Airport after departing JBA at 11:24 a.m.
Principal deputy press secretary Karine Jean-Pierre gaggled for just over six minutes shortly before landing, and took about three or so questions on COVID and vaccine/mask mandates. Your pool has asked for a gaggle on the return flight, since it was so short. The audio should’ve streamed live; please let me know if there was trouble with audio.



July 28, 202112:11

Travel pool report #4 — POTUS on the move in Allentown 
Allentown, Pa —
POTUS disembarked AF1 shortly after noon. He was wearing a mask, and then took it off as he stepped through the AF1 door.
He did not answer repeated shouted questions from your poolers about the purported infrastructure deal but said in response to a question about vaccine mandates: "I'm talking about made in America today."
It was really hard to hear, so pls check official transcript. Motorcade is rolling as of 12:08 p.m.



July 28, 202112:38

Travel pool report #5 — arrival at Mack Trucks facility 
Lower Macungie Township, Pa. —
The POTUS motorcade arrived at Mack-Lehigh Valley Operations Manufacturing facility at 12:35 p.m. About a block or so from the facility, dozens and dozens of Trump supporters, waving pro-Trump signs and flags, greeted the motorcade, followed immediately by an equally large crowd of Biden supporters, waving their own signs and flags.
The White House passes along a list of greeters at Mack Truck:
Upon arrival at Mack - Lehigh Valley Operations (LVO) Manufacturing Facility, the President will greet with:Walter Smith, President, UAW Local 677Michael Kelly, Financial Secretary-Treasurer, UAW Local 677David Durgin, Chairperson of the Engineering and Office Units, UAW Local 677Gunnar Brunius, Vice President and General Manager, Mack Trucks Lehigh Valley Operations



July 28, 202113:15

Travel pool report #6 — POTUS on infra deal
Lower Macungie Township, Pa—
POTUS was asked by poolers, mid-tour, about the infrastructure deal.
"I feel confident about it," he responded.
More complete pool report of tour TK.



July 28, 202113:44

travel pool report #7a -- photo line participants at Mack Trucks 
Lower Macungie Township, Pa. –
The White House sends along this list of photo line participants:
After arriving at the Mack Trucks facility, the President participated in a photo line with:Attorney General Josh Shapiro, PennsylvaniaMayor Ronald Conrad, Macungie BoroughCounty Executive Phil Armstrong, Lehigh CountyRepresentative Peter Schweyer (Lehigh County)Representative Ryan Mackenzie (Lehigh County/Berks County)



July 28, 202113:43

travel pool report #7 -- POTUS tours Mack Trucks 
Lower Macungie Township, Pa. —
POTUS participated in a roughly 15-minute tour of the Mack Trucks facility -- a giant warehouse-like center filled with truck parts – stopping at three different areas of the facility to speak with employees/local UAW members who spoke with POTUS about how the facility manufactures trucks here, including those of the electric variety.
POTUS, accompanied by two men (all IDs, via the White House, at the bottom of the report), emerged at 1:05 p.m. The first stop, where he viewed two truck cabs (one white and one fire-engine red), was flanked by two blue Made In America signs and a large red Made in America flag. Your pooler could not hear any of the conversation during this first stop.
At 1:10 p.m., POTUS moved to the second stop, where he viewed a cream-colored truck cab that was about to be dropped onto a chassis during that phase of production. Tammy Flower, one of the employees, told POTUS that it was a "great honor" to greet him and noted that "it's been a tough year." The other worker, Eric Meyers, explained to POTUS that he was the third generation in his family working at the plant.
This location is also where POTUS briefly answered a question about the infrastructure deal, telling the pool: "I feel confident about it."
At the last stop, POTUS viewed a blue electric truck, and the tour ended around 1:20 p.m.
Throughout the tour, POTUS did not wear a mask. Note (and a h/t to my WaPo colleague Annie Linskey): Lehigh County, Pa., appears to have a moderate level of community transmission, which means masks are not required indoors.
Here is the list of tour participants, and more background on the facility, via the WH:
Participating in the President's tour of the Mack - Lehigh Valley Operations (LVO) Manufacturing Facility:Martin Weissburg, President, Mack Trucks (Tour Guide – at all stops)Kevin Fronheiser, Shop Chairman, UAW Local 677 (Tour Guide – at all stops)Glenn Gray, Manufacturing Production Supervisor in the Engine Groom GT1 Department (Stop 1)Stephen Villanueva-Medina, Flex Technician, Vehicle 1 & UAW Local 677 Member (Stop 1)Tammy Flower, Team Manager, Supplier Relations (Stop 2)Eric Meyers, Team Leader, Vehicle 1 & UAW Local 677 Member  (Stop 2)Jake Evans, End-to-End Specialist for Conventional Assembly Operations (Stop 3)Heather Bouchar, Flex Technician, Cab 1 Line & UAW Local 677 Member (Stop 3)Shawn Smith, Final/End-of-Line Technician & UAW Local 677 Member (Stop 3)
Stop 1: End of the Cab Assembly Line
Glenn Gray and Stephen Villanueva-Medina will give the President an overview of the finishing assembly line for Mack truck cabs. The President will view a truck cab as it is about to be completed and move to the next phase of the production process.
Stop 2: Cab Drop and Installation
Tammy Flower and Eric Meyers will give the President an overview of how cabs are dropped onto the chassis during the production process. The President will view a cab as it is about to be fastened to a chassis and move to the next phase of the production process.
Stop 3: Mack LR Electric Refuse Truck
Jake Evans, Heather Bouchar, and Shawn Smith will give the President an overview of the electric trucks being manufactured by Mack Trucks. The President will view an electric refuse truck.
Background on Mack Trucks
Founded in 1900, Mack Trucks are sold and serviced in nearly 30 countries worldwide. Mack is one of North America's largest manufacturers of medium-duty trucks, heavy-duty trucks, proprietary engines and transmissions. Every Mack truck built for the North American market gets its start at the company's cab and vehicle assembly plant we are visiting today in Lower Macungie Township, Pennsylvania.
There are over 1,500 Mack Trucks in the federal fleet, including dump trucks. These vehicles are used by both military and civilian agencies. Mack Trucks has been making vehicles for the military since at least World War I.
The President will receive a briefing on the Mack Trucks electric refuse truck. The ability to build and sell these new trucks would be helped by the President's proposed investments in Buy American production incentives for domestic electric vehicle manufacturing.



July 28, 202113:57

travel pool report #8 -- two minute warning 
Lower Macungie Township, Pa. –
Two minute warning to POTUS remarks, which are open press and are being carried live. About 80-100 people in the audience.
Introducing the President, via the WH: Carlo Bet, Final/End-of-Line Technician & UAW Local 677 Member



July 28, 202114:03

Travel pool report #9 -- POTUS begins speaking 
Lower Macungie Township, Pa. –
POTUS came out at 1:59 p.m. as the crowd cheered and "Life Is A Highway" played in the background. He is at a lectern flanked with two red Made In America signs, and he kicked off his remarks with a quip that he was just here to drive a truck.
The speech is being carried live on all the usual channels.



July 28, 202114:07

Travel pool report #10 -- official crowd count 
Lower Macungie Township, Pa. –
Via the White House -- In the audience are approximately 130 attendees, including tour participants, staff from Mack Trucks, community members, elected officials, and labor leaders.



July 28, 202114:35

Travel pool report #11 — POTUS wraps up remarks 
Lower Macungie Township, Pa. —
POTUS wrapped up his remarks at 2:33 p.m. He is now mingling with attendees.



July 28, 202115:11

Travel pool report #12 — POTUS departs Mack Trucks 
Lower Macungie Township, Pa.—
POTUS mingled with the crowd inside Mack Trucks, shoulder to shoulder, for about a half hour after the speech concluded. As of 3:10 p.m., the motorcade is on the move, leaving the facility.



July 28, 2021
[APP Note: Report #13 does not exist or was not received by the APP.]


July 28, 202116:30

Travel pool report #14 — JBA arrival 
Joint Base Andrews, Md.—
AF1 was wheels down at JBA at 4:16 p.m. after an uneventful — although very bumpy — flight. POTUS, wearing aviators, stepped off AF1 at 4:24 p.m., saluted the greeter, Col. Jones, and boarded M1 a minute later. M1 was wheels up at 4:27 p.m.
Handing over to the in-town pool. Your pooler thanks AFP’s Aurelia End for her assistance today.
The list of greeters/travelers here at JBA, via the WH:
Upon arrival at Joint Base Andrews, the President will be greeted by:
Col. Matthew E. Jones, Commander, 89th Airlift Wing
Returning to the White House with the President on Marine One:Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of StaffBrett McGurk, Deputy Assistant to the President & Coordinator for Middle East and North AfricaAshley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office OperationsStephen Goepfert, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the PresidentJeff Nussbaum, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Presidential Speechwriter




  