
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to recess appoint the following individuals:
Albert A. Frink, Jr., of California, to be an Assistant Secretary of Commerce (Manufacturing and Services). The President nominated Mr. Frink on June 18, 2004.
Paul Jones, of Colorado, to be a Member of the Internal Revenue Service Oversight Board. The President nominated Mr. Jones on December 9, 2003.
Jonathan W. Dudas, of Virginia, to be Under Secretary of Commerce for Intellectual Property and Director of the United States Patent and Trademark Office. The President nominated Mr. Dudas on March 22, 2004.
Enrique J. Sosa, of Florida, to be a Member of the Reform Board (Amtrak). The President nominated Mr. Sosa on February 9, 2004.
Richard Kenneth Wagner, of Florida, to be a Member of the National Institute for Literacy Advisory Board. The President nominated Mr. Wagner on February 2, 2004.
Stephen L. Johnson, of Maryland, to be Deputy Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency. The President nominated Mr. Johnson on January 21, 2004.
Carin M. Barth, of Texas, to be the Chief Financial Officer of the Department of Housing and Urban Development. The President nominated Ms. Barth on June 1, 2004.
Gary Lee Visscher, of Maryland, to be a Member of the Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board. The President nominated Mr. Visscher on October 14, 2003.
Ricardo H. Hinojosa, of Texas, to be Chairman of the United States Sentencing Commission. The President nominated Mr. Hinojosa on January 22, 2004.
Susan Johnson Grant, of Virginia, to be Chief Financial Officer, Department of Energy. The President nominated Ms. Grant on October 14, 2003.
James R. Kunder, of Virginia, to be an Assistant Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development (Bureau for Asia and the Near East). The President nominated Mr. Kunder on May 11, 2004.
John D. Rood, of Florida, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Commonwealth of the Bahamas. The President nominated Mr. Rood on May 6, 2004.
Charles Graves Untermeyer, of Texas, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the State of Qatar. The President nominated Mr. Untermeyer on April 13, 2004.
Aldona Wos, of North Carolina, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Estonia. The President nominated Ms. Wos on June 8, 2004.
Scott Kevin Walker, of Wisconsin, to be a Member of the Advisory Board of the Saint Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation. The President nominated Mr. Walker on November 25, 2003.
Roger W. Wallace, of Texas, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Inter-American Foundation (Private Representative), and upon appointment designate as Chairman. The President nominated Mr. Wallace on November 25, 2003.
Jack Vaughn, of Texas, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Inter-American Foundation (Private Representative). The President nominated Mr. Vaughn on May 17, 2004.
Nadine Hogan, of Florida, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Inter-American Foundation (Private Representative), and upon appointment designate as Vice Chairman. The President nominated Mrs. Hogan on May 17, 2004.
Deborah P. Majoras, of Virginia, to be a Commissioner and upon appointment designate as Chairman of the Federal Trade Commission. The President nominated Ms. Majoras on May 11, 2004.
Jon D. Leibowitz, of Maryland, to be a Commissioner of the Federal Trade Commission. The President nominated Mr. Leibowitz on April 8, 2004.
  