
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate two individuals to serve in his administration:
The President intends to nominate Joel David Kaplan of Massachusetts, to be Deputy Director of the Office of Management and Budget. Mr. Kaplan currently serves as Special Assistant to the President in the Office of the Chief of Staff, where he assists in the coordination, development, and implementation of Administration policy. Since joining the White House in January 2001, Mr. Kaplan has focused on a wide range of issues including international economic affairs, homeland security, energy, and transportation. Before joining the White House Staff, Mr. Kaplan worked as a policy advisor on the 2000 presidential campaign in Austin, Texas. Earlier, he served as a law clerk for the Honorable Antonin Scalia, Supreme Court of the United States and for the Honorable J. Michael Luttig, United States Court of Appeals for the 4th Circuit (Alexandria, VA). He also served for four years as an Artillery Officer in the United States Marine Corps. Mr. Kaplan earned his bachelor's degree from Harvard College and his J.D. from Harvard Law School.
The President intends to nominate Donald K. Steinberg of California, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Federal Republic of Nigeria. A career member of the Senior Foreign Service, Ambassador Steinberg currently serves as Deputy Director of Policy Planning at the Department of State. His previous positions at the Department include Special Representative of the President and Secretary of State for Global Humanitarian Demining and Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for Population, Refugees and Migration. He previously served as U.S. Ambassador to Angola and as the Senior Director for African Affairs at the National Security Council. Ambassador Steinberg earned his bachelor's degree from Reed College. He earned his first master's degree from the University of Toronto and a second master's degree from Columbia University.
  