
    "This isn't a partisan issue; it's a national security crisis. And yesterday, Democrat Senator Dianne Feinstein, Chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee, said, quote, 'I think the White House has to understand that some of this is coming from their ranks.' This conduct is contemptible. It betrays our national interest. It compromises our men and women in the field. And it demands a full and prompt investigation, with explanation and consequence. Whoever provided classified information to the media, seeking political advantage for the administration, must be exposed, dismissed, and punished. The time for stonewalling is over." —Mitt Romney
Senator Dianne Feinstein (D) — Chair Of The Senate Intelligence Committee — Said Yesterday That The White House Has Been Leaking Classified Information:
Senator Feinstein: "I Think The White House Has To Understand That Some Of This Is Coming From Their Ranks." "A prominent Democrat is giving the White House heartburn over national security leaks. Sen. Dianne Feinstein, D-Calif., who chairs the Senate Intelligence Committee, told a World Affairs Council forum yesterday, 'I think the White House has to understand that some of this is coming from their ranks.' ... The leaks have included news that the U.S. has launched cyberattacks against Iran's nuclear program and details of an investigation into an al-Qaeda bombing plot." (USA Today, 7/24/12)
But Last Month, President Obama Flatly Denied The White House Was Behind Any Of The Leaks:
President Obama "Forcefully Disputed" Allegations That White House Officials Had Anything To Do With The Leaks Of Classified Information. "At the White House on Friday, Obama forcefully disputed charges from some Republican lawmakers that his administration had been complicit in the sensitive information being made public. 'The notion that my White House would purposely release classified national security information is offensive. It's wrong,' Obama said at a morning news conference." (The Washington Post, 6/8/12)
President Obama: "Since I've Been In Office, My Attitude Has Been Zero Tolerance For These Kinds Of Leaks And Speculation." "The president added that there were 'mechanisms in place' to 'root out folks who have leaked.' 'They will suffer consequences,' he said. 'When this information, or reports, whether true or false, surface on the front page of newspapers, that makes the job of folks on the front lines tougher and it makes my job tougher, which is why since I've been in office, my attitude has been zero tolerance for these kinds of leaks and speculation.'" (The Washington Post, 6/8/12)
And Senior Obama Aides Have Also Stated In Absolute Terms That No Leaks Came From The White House:
Senior Obama Adviser David Axelrod: "I Can't Say That There Weren't Leaks. There Were Obvious Leaks, But They Weren't From The White House." DAVID AXELROD: "George, I think the authors of all of this work have said that the White House was not the source of this information. I can't say that there weren't leaks. There were obvious leaks, but they weren't from the White House. ... The last thing that [President Obama] would countenance or anybody around him would countenance are leaks that would jeopardize the security of Americans on these secret missions, and the success of those missions. So, you know, I think when he said on Friday that he said offended about it, he was speaking from that place." (ABC's "This Week," 6/10/12)


    ABC's GEORGE STEPHANOPOULOS: "So You're Confident That This Investigation Is Not Going To Show White House Involvement?" AXELROD: "Yes." (ABC's "This Week," 6/10/12)
  

White House Press Secretary Jay Carney: "Any Suggestion That The White House Has Leaked Sensitive Information For Political Purposes Has No Basis In Fact..." CARNEY: "This administration takes all appropriate and necessary steps to prevent leaks of classified information or sensitive information that could risk ongoing counterterrorism or intelligence operations. Any suggestion that the White House has leaked sensitive information for political purposes has no basis in fact and has been denied by the authors themselves, as one of the authors of The New York Times story on Obama's counterterrorism record said, 'The notion that the White House prompted the story or controlled our reporting and writing is absurd.'" (White House Press Gaggle, 6/7/12)
One Question For President Obama: Where Does The Buck Stop?
President Obama: "It's Pretty Clear To Me That I'm Responsible For Folks Who Are Working In The Federal Government And You Know, Harry Truman Said The Buck Stops With You." PRESIDENT OBAMA: "Well, here's what I know, we were just talking about responsibility and as president of the United States, it's pretty clear to me that I'm responsible for folks who are working in the federal government and you know, Harry Truman said the buck stops with you." (WJLA-TV, 6/13/12)
  