
    Arizona Democrats Returning Early Primary Ballots at Higher Rate than Previous Two Cycles
With 100 days to go until Election Day, Biden for President and the Biden Victory Arizona Coordinated Campaign are scaling up across the state. Organizers and volunteers have talked to hundreds of thousands of voters, recruited over 1,500 regular volunteers, and built a robust organizing network to elect Joe Biden, Mark Kelly, and Democrats up and down the ballot this November. As Arizona Democrats return early primary ballots at a higher rate than in the past two election cycles, the organizing team is holding a 100 Days Out Weekend of Action on the weekend of July 25th, with more than 1,000 volunteers recruited for over 100 events.
"More than ever, Arizonans need responsible, experienced leadership to unify our country and help us build back our country better than ever before. With 100 days to go until Election Day and Joe Biden leading the ticket, we are in a strong position in Arizona thanks to the countless hours our staff and volunteers have put in," said Biden for President Arizona State Director Jessica Mejía. "Arizonans are returning early primary ballots at a higher rate than the last two election cycles, we've recruited thousands of volunteers and are building on years of organizing work across the state. As thousands of Arizonans continue to get sick from COVID-19 and thousands remain out of work, Donald Trump is proving every single day how unfit he is to be our president, and we're going to do everything we can to defeat him in November."
"Our team all across Arizona is working to elect Joe Biden as our next President, Mark Kelly as our next U.S. Senator, and Democrats up and down the ballot across the Grand Canyon State," said Arizona Democratic Party Chair Felecia Rotellini. "As we enter the home stretch of this election, we are certain that this is the most important election of our lifetimes, and Mission for Arizona is going to do everything it can to win in November and deliver the changes we so deeply need."
  