
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
July 1 *
The President announced his intention to nominate Roger C. Viadero as Inspector General of the Department of Agriculture.
The President announced his intention to nominate Peter J. Osetek as Commissioner of the Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation.
The President announced his intention to appoint Don Christiansen as a member of the Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission.
The President declared a major disaster exists in the State of North Dakota and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in areas struck by severe storms, flooding, and ground saturation due to high water tables beginning March 5.
July 4
In the morning, the President had a telephone conversation with President Václav Havel of the Czech Republic.
In the evening, the President and Hillary and Chelsea Clinton returned to Washington, DC, from a weekend stay at Camp David, MD.
July 5
In the morning, the President had a telephone conversation with President Boris Yeltsin of Russia.
The President also had telephone conversations with President Guillermo Endara of Panama, Prime Minister Eugenia Charles of Dominica, and Prime Minister Lester Bird of Antigua and Barbuda. He also met with Ray Mabus, U.S. Ambassador-designate to Saudi Arabia.
In the evening, the President and Hillary and Chelsea Clinton traveled to Riga, Latvia.
The President announced his intention to appoint John A. Calhoun, Nancy G. Guerra, and Rose W. Washington as members of the Coordinating Council on Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention.
The White House announced the President invited President-elect Ernesto Pérez Balladares of Panama to meet with him on July 20.
July 6
Following a morning arrival ceremony at Riga International Airport, the President went to Riga Castle where he attended a working luncheon with President Guntis Ulmanis of Latvia, President Algirdas Brazauskas of Lithuania, and President Lennart Meri of Estonia in the White Room.
In the afternoon, the President and Hillary Clinton met with Latvian political, cultural, and business leaders at the Stock Market Building. Following the reception, they went to Freedom Square, where the President met with U.S. Embassy staff from Latvia, Estonia, and Lithuania. They then traveled to Warsaw, Poland, arriving in the late afternoon.
In the evening, the President and Hillary Clinton went to the Presidential Palace. Following an arrival ceremony in the courtyard, the President met with President Lech Walesa in the Blue Room.
The President announced his intention to nominate Joel D. Valdez as a member of the National Commission on Libraries and Information Science.
The President announced his intention to nominate Marc Lincoln Marks as Commissioner of the Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission.
The President announced the appointment of Dwight N. Mason as Chair of the Permanent Joint Board of Defense, U.S. and Canada.
July 7
In the morning, the President and Hillary Clinton went to the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier, where the President participated in a wreath-laying ceremony. They then went to the Warsaw Ghetto, where the President participated in a wreath-laying ceremony at the memorial for the Warsaw Ghetto uprising of 1943. Following the ceremony, he met with Prime Minister Waldemar Pawlak at the Polish Parliament.
In the afternoon, the President and Hillary Clinton toured Old Town and then went to the Presidential Palace, where the President attended a reception with President Walesa and foreign ministers of Central and Eastern European nations.
In the evening, following a departure ceremony in the Presidential Palace courtyard, the President and Hillary and Chelsea Clinton greeted members of the U.S. Embassy staff at the U.S. Ambassador's residence. They then traveled to Naples, Italy. While en route aboard Air Force One, the President had telephone conversations with Gov. Roy Romer of Colorado and Gov. Zell Miller of Georgia to express his concern for the loss of life and damage caused by fires and floods.
The President declared a major disaster exists in the State of Georgia following torrential rain, flooding, tornadoes, and high winds and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts.
July 8
In the morning, the President met at the Hotel Vesuvio with Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi of Italy and then with Prime Minister Tomiichi Murayama of Japan.
In the evening, the President met at the Hotel Vesuvio with Prime Minister Jean Chrétien of Canada. He then attended a working dinner with G–7 leaders at the Castel Dell'Ovo restaurant.
The President declared a major disaster exists in the State of Alabama and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts, following severe storms and flooding caused by Tropical Storm Alberto.
  