
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
July 25
In the morning, the President traveled to Norfolk, VA. In the afternoon, he traveled to Aspen, CO.
July 26
In the evening, the President traveled to Albuquerque, NM.
July 27
In the afternoon, the President departed for Washington, DC, arriving in the evening.
The President announced his intention to nominate Norine E. Noonan to serve as Assistant Administrator for Research and Development at the Environmental Protection Agency.
July 29
The President announced his intention to nominate James Bodner to be Principal Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Policy.
The President announced his intention to nominate Gregory H. Friedman to be Inspector General of the Department of Energy.
The White House announced that the President will meet with Minister President Gerhard Schroeder of the German State of Lower Saxony at the White House on August 5.
July 30
In the morning, the President traveled to Ashe County, NC. In the afternoon, he traveled to Raleigh, NC, and in the evening, he returned to Washington, DC.
The President announced his intention to nominate Montie R. Deer to be Chair of the National Indian Gaming Commission.
The President announced his intention to nominate Charles G. Groat to be Director of the Geological Survey.
July 31
In the afternoon, the President and Hillary Clinton traveled to East Hampton, NY.
The President announced the nomination of Harold Lucas to be Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing at the Department of Housing and Urban Development.
The President announced the nomination of Cardell Cooper to be Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development at the Department of Housing and Urban Development.
The President announced his intention to nominate Peter J. Basso, Jr., to be Assistant Secretary for Budget and Programs at the Department of Transportation.
The President announced his intention to appoint Mitchell Berger as Chair of the Board of Directors of the Student Loan Marketing Association (Sallie Mae).
The President announced his intention to nominate Terrence L. Bracy to be a trustee of the Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation.
The President announced the nomination of John U. Sepulveda to be Deputy Director of the Office of Personnel Management.
The President announced the nomination of Stephen W. Preston to be General Counsel of the Department of the Navy.
The President announced the nomination of David C. Williams to be Inspector General at the Department of the Treasury.
The President announced the nomination of Claiborne Pell to be an Alternate Representative of the United States of America to the 53d Session of the General Assembly of the United Nations.
The President announced the nomination of Michael M. Reyna to be a member of the Farm Credit Administration Board.
The President announced the nomination of Joseph E. Stevens, Jr., to the Board of Trustees of the Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation.
  