
    New York Post by Ryan King
Republican presidential contender Nikki Haley blistered Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (D-NY) Thursday after the "Squad" member voted against a House resolution supporting Israel earlier this week.
"Why does Israel get under your skin? Because it's democratic, pro-American, or Jewish? You don't get worked up about massive human rights violations in China, Iran, Cuba, & Venezuela," Haley tweeted.
"You all would fit in great with the anti-Semites at the United Nations."
Haley took an initial shot at the Bronx and Queens lawmaker shortly after she and eight other House Democrats voted against a resolution that stated Congress believes "the State of Israel is not a racist or apartheid state;" "Congress rejects all forms of antisemitism and xenophobia;" and "the United States will always be a staunch partner and supporter of Israel."
The former South Carolina governor and US Ambassador to the UN posted the names of all nine "nay" votes Tuesday and vowed: "We will remember this vote."
"Oooh, a list!" Ocasio-Cortez exclaimed in response on Twitter. "Remember to call it 'People in Congress who think apartheid is wrong' or alternatively, 'People in Congress who don't ignore human rights abuses against Palestinians.'"
Other Democrats who joined AOC in opposing the resolution included Reps. Rashida Tlaib (D-Mich.), Jamaal Bowman (D-NY), Summer Lee (D-Pa.), Ilhan Omar (D-Minn.), Cori Bush (D-Mo.) Andre Carson (D-Ind.), Delia Ramirez (D-Ill.), and Ayanna Pressley (D-Mass.).
Rep. Pramila Jayapal (D-Wash.), who triggered the resolution by declaring Israel to be a "racist state" this past weekend, voted "yea" on the resolution.
Haley has long been a staunch supporter of Israel and ardently defended the Jewish state during her tenure at Turtle Bay.
Ocasio-Cortez, by contrast, has been an outspoken critic of Israel, particularly the government of Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu.
On Monday, Haley called for the censure of Ocasio-Cortez and her progressive peers following Jayapal's comment.
"[Biden] has AOC and the Squad in his party," Haley said during a speech at the Christians United for Israel conference. "And just this week, a leading Democrat called Israel a 'racist state.'"
"The Democratic Party is the definition of extreme," she added. "It's time to censure the Squad and get anti-Semitism out of America – for good!"
  