
    Pool Reports by Alex Gangitano, The Hill 



Sent:
Reports:




July 15, 202108:36

VP pool report #1 - arrival 
Good morning, your pool has been tested and just arrived at the Naval Observatory.
VP Kamala Harris is hosting Chancellor Angela Merkel at the Naval Observatory for a breakfast meeting this morning. This meeting is the first time Harris has hosted a foreign leader at the vice president's residence since taking office.
Call, text, or email with any questions.



July 15, 202109:03

VP pool report #2 
Pool is waiting for the Chancellor's arrival and we haven't seen the Vice President yet. ?We are standing outside the front doors of the residence and hear Merkel is on the way.
Background from the VP's office—
On background, here is some information about today's meeting:

The Vice President will discuss how democracies around the world are in peril.

U.S./Germany are not immune from this reality. We must work every day to live up to our shared values, and the stakes could not be higher.


The Vice President will acknowledge that Chancellor Merkel's remarkable longevity – we're the fourth administration to host her – is part of the Chancellor's lasting legacy and leadership.
The Vice President will recognize the critical role that Germany has played, and will likely continue to play – as well the President and her commitment to a strong, Transatlantic partnership.
That matters: Germany is not only an economic partner and NATO ally—but a close friend to the United States.

Strong alliance grew out of the ashes of World War II.
From tragedy, we came together to forge an international architecture of trade and governance that has left the world more prosperous, more secure, and more free.

Yielded incredible results, including BioNTech / Pfizer vaccine.




The Vice President will emphasize that we must work together to navigate many challenges together, including global health and climate crises, gender inequality, an increasingly uncertain geopolitical environment, and the Russia and China relationships.

Call, text, or email with any questions.



July 15, 202109:32

VP pool report #3 
Merkel arrived and Harris greeted her at the car door. They stood at the driveway and exchanged words but the pool was not able to hear.
They walked towards the front doors and stopped for a couple minutes. Harris welcomed Merkel and called her career "extraordinary."
Merkel said, from the translator, that she is excited to meet the first Madam Vice President of the United States of America"Please, let's have breakfast, please," Harris said. ?
The two are now inside the residence and pool is leaving. Will send full remarks soon.
Call, text, or email with any questions.



July 15, 202109:33

VP pool report #4 
Harris and Merkel spoke for just under 2 minutes outside the front door of the vice president's residence.
Harris: "We are pleased to welcome you Madam Chancellor and I know we are the fourth administration that you have worked with throughout your extraordinary career. I want to thank you for your years of leadership. I'm very proud that I believe that I am the first vice president to host you at the official residence of the vice president."
Merkel responded, inaudible, and Harris laughed and smiled.
Harris: "Well, I'm very honored to see you and I look forward to our conversation and it goes without saying that the relationship between our two countries is one founded on many shared values, including a commitment to democracy around the world. So, welcome, welcome."
Merkel, from the translator: "I can only say that I'm delighted too for this opportunity here to meet the first Madam Vice President of the United States of America and I think that we can indeed cooperate very well in order to boost values and also continue to build on them [inaudible]"
Harris: "Please, let's have breakfast, please."
The two then entered the front door of the residence.
Pool is back at the White House. We've asked what is on the menu for breakfast, but haven't heard yet.
Call, text, or email with any questions.



July 15, 202111:25

VP pool report #5 
Some more background from the VP's office—
Color from a WH official:
The Vice President and Chancellor Merkel had a wide-ranging and very candid discussion. Topics crossed both domestic and international issues including current challenges, history between the two counties and future endeavors.
Attached and below is the menu from today:
An official readout is forthcomingBreakfast menu—
Breakfast in Honor of Her ExcellencyDr. Angela MerkelChancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany
Gruyère SouffléArugula Salad, Residence Garden HerbsFresh Seasonal Fruit
Fresh Baked Sourdough BreadProsciutto . Salami . Cucumber
Coffee, Fresh Squeezed Orange Juice
And, that's a wrap! Stay cool and let me know any questions.




  