
    "The Hispanic community has been hit disproportionately hard in the Obama economy, with an unemployment rate of 11% and millions more Hispanics living in poverty since the Obama Administration took office. Yet Vice President Biden would rather engage in cynical and dishonest character attacks than discuss how to create jobs and promote opportunity for all Americans. Mitt Romney will take America in a new and better direction and repair the damage inflicted on our economy by President Obama's failed policies." —Valentina Weis, Romney Campaign Spokesperson
Four Years Ago, President Obama Promised Hispanics That He Would "Change This Country And Change The World":
Candidate Obama, In 2008: "You And I — Together — Will Change This Country And Change This World." "And I'm proud that my campaign is working hard to register more Latinos, and bring them into the political process. Because I truly believe that if we work together and fight together and stand together this fall, then you and I — together — will change this county and change this world." (President Barack Obama, Remarks, Washington, DC, 6/28/08)
Candidate Obama, To National Council Of La Raza: "The System Isn't Working When Hispanics Are Losing Their Jobs Faster Than Almost Anybody Else." OBAMA: "The system isn't working when Hispanics are losing their jobs faster than almost anybody else, or working jobs that pay less, and come with fewer benefits than almost anybody else." (Senator Barack Obama, Remarks At National Council Of La Raza Annual Meeting, San Diego, CA, 7/13/08)
But President Obama Hasn't Delivered The Type Of Change That The Hispanic Community Was Hoping For:
The Hispanic Unemployment Rate Is Currently 11%—Nearly Three Percentage Points Above The National Average. (Bureau Of Labor Statistics, www.bls.gov, 7/10/12)


    Three Out Of Every Ten Hispanic Teenagers Are Unemployed. (Bureau Of Labor Statistics, www.bls.gov, 7/10/12)
  



    More Than 2.7 Million Hispanic Workers Are Out Of A Job. (Bureau Of Labor Statistics, www.bls.gov, 7/10/12)
  



    More Than Half A Million More Hispanic Workers Are Unemployed Today Than When President Obama Took Office. (Bureau Of Labor Statistics, www.bls.gov, 7/10/12)
  

Since 2008, More Hispanics Have Fallen Into Poverty — With 13.2 Million Hispanics In Poverty In 2010. (People With Income Below Specified Ratios Of Their Poverty Thresholds By Selected Characteristics, 2008, US Census Bureau, 9/10/2009; People And Families In Poverty By Selected Characteristics: 2009 And 2010, US Census Bureau, 9/13/11)


    "More Latino Children Are Living In Poverty—6.1 Million In 2010—Than Children Of Any Other Racial Or Ethnic Group." (Mark Hugo Lopez, et al, "Childhood Poverty Among Hispanics Sets Record, Leads Nation," Pew Research Center, 9/28/11)
  

The Pew Hispanic Center Found That 75% Of Hispanics Surveyed Rated Their Personal Finances As Being In "Only Fair" Or "Poor" Shape. "Large shares report that they or someone in their household has been out of work in the past year (59%); that their personal finances are in 'only fair' or 'poor' shape (75%); that they canceled or delayed a major purchase in the past year (49%); or that they are underwater on their mortgage (28% of Latino homeowners)." (Paul Taylor, et al, "Hispanics Say They Have The Worst Of A Bad Economy," Pew Research Center, 1/26/12) 
59% Of Hispanics "Say Someone In Their Household Had Been Out Of Work And Looking For A Job In The Past Year." "Some 59% of Latinos says someone in their household has been out of work and looking for a job in the past year, compared with 51% of the general public."  (Paul Taylor, et al, "Hispanics Say They Have The Worst Of A Bad Economy," Pew Research Center, 1/26/12) 
"28% Of Latino Homeowners Say They Owe More On Their Home Than What They Could Sell It For—Double The Share (14%) Of Homeowners In The General Population Who Say The Same." "The steep decline in housing prices has many Latino homeowners underwater on their home mortgages. According to Pew Hispanic survey, 28% of Latino homeowners say they owe more on their home than what they could sell it for—double the share (14%) of homeowners in the general population who say the same." (Paul Taylor, et al, "Hispanics Say They Have The Worst Of A Bad Economy," Pew Research Center, 1/26/12)
  