
    President Donald J. Trump today announced his fourth wave of United States Attorney candidates. The United States Attorney serves as the chief Federal law enforcement officer within his or her Federal judicial district. These six candidates share the President's vision for "Making America Safe Again." Accordingly, the President today announced his intent to nominate these individuals to serve as United States Attorney:
If confirmed, Mark A. Klaassen of Wyoming will serve as the United States Attorney for the District of Wyoming. Mr. Klaassen is currently an Assistant United States Attorney in the District of Wyoming, where he has served for more than eight years. From 2007 to 2009, he was Chief of Staff to the General Counsel for the Department of Homeland Security, and he also served as General Counsel for the U.S. House Committee on Homeland Security from 2003 to 2007. Mr. Klaassen began his career as an associate at Latham & Watkins LLP. Mr. Klaassen clerked for the Honorable Wade Brorby of the United States Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit. He received his B.S., summa cum laude, from Oral Roberts University and his J.D., magna cum laude, from Notre Dame Law School.
If confirmed, J. Douglas Overbey of Tennessee will serve as the United States Attorney for the Eastern District of Tennessee. Mr. Overbey is currently a senior partner and cofounder of the law firm Robertson Overbey. During his 38 years of practice, he has handled a diverse array of legal matters, including antitrust and commercial litigation. Mr. Overbey is also a three-term Tennessee state senator and the chair of the state ethics committee. He previously served as an adjunct faculty member at the University of Tennessee College of Law. He received his B.A., magna cum laude, from Carson-Newman College, and his J.D. from the University of Tennessee College of Law, where he was first in his class and Order of the Coif.
If confirmed, Byung Jin ("BJay") Pak of Georgia will serve as the United States Attorney for the Northern District of Georgia. Mr. Pak is currently a member of Chalmers Pak Burch & Adams LLC, where his practice focuses on complex litigation and government investigations. Mr. Pak was a member of the Georgia House of Representatives from 2011 to 2017, during which he served as a Deputy Majority Whip, and as the Vice Chairman of the House Judiciary Non-Civil Committee. From 2002 to 2008, he served as an Assistant United States Attorney in the Northern District of Georgia, where he prosecuted drug trafficking, money laundering, intellectual property, and white-collar crimes. Prior to becoming a Federal prosecutor, he was a litigation associate at Alston & Bird LLP. Mr. Pak clerked for the Honorable Richard Mills of the United States District Court for the Central District of Illinois. He received his B.B.A. from Stetson University in 1995 and his J.D., summa cum laude, from University of Illinois College of Law in 1998.
If confirmed, Ronald A. Parsons, Jr. of South Dakota will serve as the United States Attorney for the District of South Dakota. Mr. Parsons is currently a partner at the law firm of Johnson Janklow Abdallah Reiter & Parsons LLP, where he focuses on complex litigation, appellate law, and constitutional law. He also serves, by appointment, as a Limited Deputy State's Attorney for Minnehaha County and as South Dakota's representative on the Eighth Circuit Federal Advisory Committee. Mr. Parsons clerked for the Honorable Roger L. Wollman of the United States Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit. He received his B.A. from the University of Minnesota, and his J.D. from the University of South Dakota School of Law, where he graduated first in his class.
If confirmed, Charles E. Peeler of Georgia will serve as the United States Attorney for the Middle District of Georgia. Mr. Peeler is currently a partner at Flynn Peeler & Phillips, LLC, a firm he co-founded in 2005. Mr. Peeler maintains a diverse trial practice focusing on complex civil litigation and Federal criminal matters. Previously, he served as an attorney with King & Spalding, LLP in Atlanta, where he focused on intellectual property litigation. Mr. Peeler received his B.S. in biochemistry and molecular biology from the University of Georgia, and his J.D., cum laude, from the University of Georgia School of Law.
If confirmed, Bryan Schroder of Alaska will serve as the United States Attorney for the District of Alaska. Mr. Schroder is currently the Acting United States Attorney for the District of Alaska, and previously served as the First Assistant United States Attorney and Chief of the Criminal Division. Mr. Schroder has served in the U.S. Attorney's Office for more than 11 years, prosecuting a variety of cases including violent crimes, drug distribution, gun crimes, fraud, tax evasion, environmental crimes, and fisheries and wildlife offenses. Mr. Schroder is a retired Captain in the U.S. Coast Guard, having served for 24 years. Mr. Schroder graduated from the U.S. Coast Guard Academy in 1981 and the University of Washington School of Law in 1991.
  