
    Charlestown, MA - Today, the Warren for President campaign announced new endorsements. They include Vice Chair of the House Democratic Caucus, Representative Katherine Clark of Massachusetts; Former chair of the Progressive Caucus, Representative Raúl Grijalva of Arizona; Representative Deb Haaland of New Mexico; Representative Joe Kennedy of Massachusetts; Representative Andy Levin of Michigan; Senator Edward J. Markey of Massachusetts; Representative Jim McGovern of Massachusetts; and Representative Lori Trahan of Massachusetts.
"We are grateful to have the support of incredible leaders who are on the frontlines of the fight to make our country work for every person, not just the wealthy and well-connected," said Warren for President Senior Advisor and Political Director Rebecca Pearcey. "This campaign is about calling out what's broken, laying out serious plans to fix it, and building a grassroots movement to get it done. With these partners, we will win in 2020 and make the big, structural change Americans are counting on."
"I've worked closely with Elizabeth Warren for years and seen her passion, her leadership, and her commitment to make sure our country works for everyone," said Representative Katherine Clark. "She's shaping the Democratic party with her plans to root out corruption, address the student debt crisis and sky high child care costs, and tackle climate change head-on. I'm proud to endorse Elizabeth for president because she will fight harder than anyone else I know to give every American the opportunity to build a future."
"I've worked closely with Elizabeth and have seen up close her passion for working people and those who've been left behind," said Representative Raúl Grijalva. "She is a formidable champion of progressive values, ideas and principles who will lead us towards becoming a country that doesn't kowtow to corporations and special interests, but a nation that will bring real power to workers, women, immigrants and all of those most vulnerable and marginalized. She is a bold, persistent, visionary leader who cares about working families - and because of this, she's won my endorsement."
"I'm very proud to endorse Elizabeth Warren for president because it is time for the American people to have a champion. We've worked together to introduce legislation that demands a solution to unsafe military housing, tackles the opioid crisis, and provides universal child care. Elizabeth has been a great friend to me and a great partner for Indian Country," said Representative Deb Haaland. "She has made it a priority to address some of the most challenging issues facing working families, including an economy that works for everyone, student loan debt, and the crisis of missing and murdered Indigenous women. As a single mom, who is still paying off my student loans, I understand the challenges so many of us face and Elizabeth is the person who will deliver real change for families across the country."
"I am proud to endorse Elizabeth Warren for president because America needs a leader who will restore the solidarity that Donald Trump stole," said Representative Joe Kennedy III. "We need a leader who will bring this country together to take on its greatest common threat: a system that protects the powerful and privileged while the rest struggle to scrape by. Elizabeth has built her entire career on the belief that ours is a nation of second chances, redemption, and of horizons that don't disappear when fate gives you a tough hand. In Elizabeth Warren's America, we pull people up, we fight by their side and we refuse to leave anyone behind. I'm proud to call her my colleague, my mentor, my friend and, soon, the President of the United States."
"I have followed Senator Warren since she was a visiting professor at Harvard Law School during my second year there. She came from modest roots and soared to the highest academic heights. She never forgot where she came from, and never intended to get into politics, but she couldn't stand the way poor and working people were being taken advantage of, so she became an authentic and fierce fighter for working families," said Representative Andy Levin. "She has released remarkably clear, smart and brave policy plans on everything from climate change to trade to taxation to financial markets to education. I believe Elizabeth Warren can resoundingly defeat Donald Trump on November 3, 2020 and that she will lead a transformative government, encourage mass mobilization for change, and stand up to the forces of reaction. I'm throwing in with Liz!"
"Elizabeth Warren is the most passionate, brilliant, and effective legislator that I have ever had the honor to work with. We've been blessed to have her serve the people of Massachusetts these last six and a half years," said Edward J. Markey. "She's worked tirelessly to ensure that Wall Street reforms stay on the books. She's advocated for the rights of our retirees, so they can lead lives of dignity and not despair. And she's been a champion for working people, fighting to make sure that no one who works 40 hours a week still lives in poverty. No one knows how to fight for what is right better than Elizabeth Warren. I'm proud to call her my partner, my friend, and soon - the next President of the United States."
"I'm proud to have worked with Elizbath Warren in Congress, and to endorse her as our party's nominee for President of the United States," said Representative Jim McGovern. "I believe she will restore compassion and decency to our politics. I believe in her agenda to implement big, structural change in this country. I believe she can take on Donald Trump. And I know she will be a great President."
"Elizabeth Warren has dedicated her life to making the system fairer for working Americans. She is in this fight for families like the one I grew up in, and she demonstrates that through her policy proposals and how she's structured her campaign," said Representative Lori Trahan. "She is authentic, running on bold, transformative ideas that put people first. I believe that there is no one in this race for president who gets up every single day with more clarity and vision than my friend and colleague, Elizabeth Warren."
  