
    President Obama's Advisers Continue To Duck Questions About The White House's Involvement In Security Leaks
Given Recent Comments By Senior Obama Advisers, Are The Previous Denials Of White House Involvement In Leaking Classified Information Now Implicitly — Or Explicitly — Proven False?
When Asked Why Information Is "Leaking Out Of The White House," Obama Campaign Adviser David Axelrod Didn't Deny White House Leaks, Saying "There Are Leaks Out Of Every Administration" SCARBOROUGH: "Why is it leaking out of the White House? How do we stop it?" AXELROD: "Joe, there's an investigation going — well, you stop it by sending strong signals. Strong signals have been sent. There are leaks out of every administration." (MSNBC's "Morning Joe," 7/25/12)
When Asked Pointedly If He Could Say "Nobody From The White House Was Involved," White House Spokesman Jay Carney Replied: "In Which Particular Case?" HENRY: "One of your past statements from June 11 when you said it's absurd when Senator McCain suggested people inside the White House leaked this information for political gain. In June, David Axelrod flatly said on ABC that nobody in the White House was involved and David Axelrod was on MSNBC yesterday and said the President did not leak anything and then followed up by saying the President did not authorize any leaks. That's different. That leaves up the door that there were unauthorized leaks by White House people. So, have you moved the goal posts?" CARNEY: "No, Ed, I think you're conflating a lot of things. All of those statements are completely true. I stand by what I've said and Mr. Axelrod and the President has said..." HENRY: "He said no one from the White House was involved. Can you today say that nobody from the White House was involved?" CARNEY: "Involved in which particular case are you talking about? I can tell you that the President takes this very seriously." (White House Press Briefing, 7/26/12)
FLASHBACK — President Obama, In June: "The Notion That My White House Would Purposely Release Classified National Security Information Is Offensive. It's Wrong." OBAMA: "The notion that my White House would purposely release classified national security information is offensive.  It's wrong.  And people I think need to have a better sense of how I approach this office and how the people around me here approach this office." (President Barack Obama, Press Conference, Washington, DC, 6/8/12)
Did Anyone From The White House Or The President's Campaign Contact Senator Dianne Feinstein Following Her Comments That Leaks Originated Within The White House?
Senator Dianne Feinstein (D-CA): "I Think The White House Has To Understand That Some Of This Is Coming From Its Ranks." SENATOR DIANNE FEINSTEIN: "I am aware of that, I think that's a correct analysis. I think the White House has to understand that some of this is coming from its ranks. I don't know specifically where, but I think they have to begin to understand that and do something about it. I mean, there's one book they can read and they'll see it very clearly." (World Affairs Council, Washington, DC, 7/23/12)
The Next Day, Senator Feinstein Issued A Statement "Clarifying" Her Remarks After Controversy Ensued. "Sen. Dianne Feinstein said Tuesday that she shouldn't have speculated about leaks coming from the White House, walking back hear earlier comments that the White House was partly responsible for the leak of national security information. The California Democrat, who chairs of the Senate Intelligence Committee, said she regretted speculating about the White House's role in leaks relating to national security. 'I was asked [at the World Affairs Council on Monday] whether the White House might be responsible for recent national security leaks. I stated that I did not believe the president leaked classified information. I shouldn't have speculated beyond that, because the fact of the matter is I don't know the source of the leaks,' Feinstein said in her statement." (Tim Mak, "Feinstein Walks Back Leaks Accusation," Politico, 7/24/12)
Given Vice President Biden's History Of Calling For Special Counsel Investigations, Isn't The Obama White House's Rejection Of Calls For A Special Counsel Hypocritical?
In June, The Obama White House "Rejected Congressional Calls For A Special Counsel To Investigate" The Security Leaks. "The White House on Thursday rejected congressional calls for a special counsel to investigate a spate of recent national-security leaks described as among the worst lawmakers have ever seen." (Jeremy Herb, "White House Rejects Calls For Special Counsel For National Security Leaks," The Hill, 6/7/12)
But In 2003, Senator Biden Called For A Special Counsel To Investigate White House Leak Allegations. "The vow came as numerous Democratic leaders demanded the administration appoint a special counsel to investigate the charges that a CIA operative's name was divulged in an effort to discredit her husband, a prominent critic of Bush's Iraq policy. ... Some congressional Democrats insisted on the need for a special counsel yesterday. In a letter to Ashcroft, Senate Minority Leader Thomas A. Daschle (S.D.) and Sens. Joseph R. Biden Jr. (Del.), Carl M. Levin (Mich.) and John D. Rockefeller IV (W.Va.) requested a special counsel 'because of the obvious and inherent conflicts of interests involved.'" (Mike Allen and Dana Milbank, "Bush Vows Action If Aides Had Role In Leak," The Washington Post, 9/30/03)


"'The White House Has Now Put The Justice Department In The Position Of Having To Determine Not Only What Happened, But Also Whether To Contradict The Publicly Stated Position Of The White House,' [The Senators] Said." (Eric Litchtblau, "More Agents Are Added To Leak Case," The New York Times, 10/10/03)


And In 2007, Senator Biden Forcefully Called For Another Special Counsel Investigation Of The White House. "Sen. Joe Biden issued the following statement: 'Yesterday's action by the Department of Justice calling on the House Intelligence Committee to delay its investigation highlights the need for a Special Counsel to immediately take over the investigation into the destruction of taped interrogations by the CIA. The American people deserve a thorough, unbiased investigation, free of any political influence. The investigation should be conducted by someone who had no involvement in the conduct under investigation." (Sen. Joe Biden, Press Release, 12/16/07)


Senator Biden: "The Easiest, Straightest Thing To Do, Is Take It Out Of The Political Realm, Appoint A Special Prosecutor And Let Them Decide And Call It Where It Is." BIDEN: "One of the issues here, is did the CIA use the waterboarding technique and apparently did. Why did they destroy the tapes? You know, I just think this is getting very convoluted. And I think the easiest, straightest thing to do, is take it out of the political realm, appoint a special prosecutor and let them decide and call it where it is. Is there a criminal violation? If there is, proceed. If not, don't." (ABC's "This Week," 12/9/07)


  