
    Pool Reports by Nadia Bilbassy, Al Arabiya 



Sent:
Reports:




July 24, 202310:10 CEST

FLOTUS Travel Pool #1 : Paris, France
Bonjour from Paris,
I am your print pooler for this trip. First Lady Jill Biden stepped out of her plane at 9:54 am local time, she landed at Orly airport, a relatively smaller airport than Charles De Gaulle.
A line of greeters waited at the tarmac for her arrival.
She joined the motorcade to the city where she will stay, later today she will meet with the US embassy staff in a closed media event.
Traveling with her is her daughter Ashley Biden who also accompanied her on her last Middle East trip.
The highlight of the trip is her speech Infront of UNESCO marking the rejoining of the US to the international body after the Trump's administration withdrawal in 2017.
Per Katie Rogers, the travel pooler, the flight was uneventful, no visitors came to the back.
Day 2 of 4: MONDAY, JULY 24
In the morning, the First Lady will arrive in Paris, France at Paris-Orly Airport. The arrival will be open press and will be managed by U.S. Embassy Paris.
Upon arrival, the First Lady will be greeted by:

Mr. Jérôme Harnois, Prefect-Delegate for Airline Hub Security (Attached to the Prefect of Police) 
Mr. Bruno Bisson, Deputy Director of State Protocol and Diplomatic Events
The Honorable Denise Campbell Bauer, U.S. Ambassador to the French Republic and the Principality of Monaco
The Honorable Jack Markell, Ambassador and Representative to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
The Honorable Erica Barks-Ruggles, Chargé D'Affaires and Representative to the 2022 Conferences of the International Telecommunication Union (ITU) and Inter-American Telecommunications Commission (CITEL)
Ms. Anne de Bermont, Airport Police Deputy Director
Major Aline Guilmot, Commanding Officer of the Air Transport Gendarmerie (GTA) of Paris-Orly
Mrs. Marie Moura, Head of Official and Protocol at Paris Airports

In the afternoon, the First Lady will greet families and staff of the U.S. Embassy Paris. This greet will be closed press.
Backgrounder on UNECSO:
The United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization was created in 1945 with a mission to celebrate cultural diversity and foster intellectual cooperation and the free flow of ideas among the world's nations. Among its first projects was to rebuild libraries, schools and museums destroyed during World War II.
UNESCO is best known for its World Heritage program, which protects traditions and cultural sites across the globe, including India's Taj Mahal and the United States' Yellowstone National Park. It also works to improve education in poor countries, defend media freedom and promote scientific advances.



  