
    Pool Reports by Kate Bennett, CNN 



Sent:
Reports:




July 8, 202112:44

#1 FLOTUS pool: POTUS appearance, tested and WH departure 
Your pooler is tested and at 12:28 we are rolling to JBA for first lady Jill Biden's trip to Savannah, Georgia, and then on to Orlando, Florida.
*WE had a sighting of President Biden who came over from the Oval Office to say goodbye to the first lady at the departure of her motorcade before she got into her vehicle. We did not see the actual goodbye, but we saw POTUS walk away from the lined-up motorcade and walk back to the Oval via the Rose Garden.*
In Georgia we will be to tour a vaccination facility with Senator Raphael Warnock (D-GA), the latter to visit with the families and contestants in the finals of the annual Scripps Spelling Bee at the ESPN Wide World of Sports Complex. Here's the first stop details on background from a White House official. More tk on the ground.
"The First Lady will tour a pop-up COVID-19 vaccination clinic and deliver remarks with Senator Raphael Warnock (D-GA ) at Alfred Ely Beach High School in Savannah, Georgia, and encourage Georgians to get vaccinated."



July 8, 202113:11

#2 FLOTUS pool: JBA departure 
After an uneventful motorcade, FLOTUS emerged from her vehicle (she is wearing a long navy floral dress and navy pumps) and boarded Executive One Foxtrot.
We will shortly be wheels up for Savannah.



July 8, 202114:57

#3 FLOTUS pool: arrival Savannah, more background 
FLOTUS touched down at 2:32pm after a mildly bumpy flight, considering the surrounding weather.Biden deplaned and was greeted on the tarmac by Savannah mayor Van Johnson and Senator Warnock. We have a 20 minute ride to Alfred E. Beach High School, where the vaccination site is located.
More background from the east wing on this leg of the trip:
The First Lady will tour a pop-up COVID-19 vaccination clinic and deliver remarks with Senator Raphael Warnock (D, Georgia) at Alfred Ely Beach High School in Savannah, Georgia, and encourage Georgians to get vaccinated.
Upon arrival in Savannah, she will be greeted by Colonel Christopher Dunlap and Chief Master Sergeant Francisco "Frankie" Ramirez, Senator Raphael Warnock (D, Georgia) and Mayor Van Johnson (D, Savannah).
FLOTUS, Senator Warnock, Savannah Mayor Van Johnson, and Alfred Ely Beach High School Principal Craig Daughtry will take a tour of the clinic.
FLOTUS and Senator Warnock will participate in a discussion with health care workers and hear about their work to vaccinate their communities. FLOTUS, Senator Warnock, and Mayor Johnson will then give remarks at a mobilization event.
After remarks, FLOTUS will head to Orlando, Florida where she will attend the 2021 Scripps National Spelling Bee Finals and meet the spellers, their families, deliver brief remarks, and participate in a "sideline" interview with ESPN.
FLOTUS Traveling Staff:Anthony Bernal, Senior AdvisorMala Adiga, Director of Policy & ProjectsMichael LaRosa, Press SecretaryJordan Montoya, Trip Director & Director of AdvanceCameron Webb Sr. Policy Advisor for Equity, COVID-19Erin Scott, PhotographerEric Bravo, Videographer



July 8, 202115:53

#4 FLOTUS pool: Savannah, vaccine site flotus interaction 
Jill Biden entered the cafeteria at A. E. Beach high school where a temporary vaccine site was set up. She approached a man who was awaiting his shot — the only person waiting for one that your pooler could see. "Are you scared? Do you want me to hold your hand?" Biden joked, as the middle aged man was rather tall in stature.
(Your pool has asked about the origin of site and how many people it has served, for how long, etc., and was told I would be supplied these answers shortly, so tbd.)
Biden thanked the man for getting his shot and asked if his family was also getting vaccinated. The man said some have, some have not. "Should I call them?" asked FLOTUS. The man said he might need to work on them a little, to which flotus replied she would be "here for a little while" should he change his mind and want her to call.She thanked him again for getting vaccinated. "It means a lot, it really does."
Georgia's currently at about 37% for fully vaccinated citizens, one of the lowest states in the nation.
Biden moved on to a mom and her two daughters - 18 and 15 - both of whom had just gotten their shots. The mom told flotus both girls had been scared to get the shot. Biden thanked them for coming and getting it done. She also told them to read this summer ("I'm an English teacher,"'she added."
She also thanked two nurses at the vaccine site with a round of applause.
Pool is not moved to the gym where there are a couple hundred people seated awaiting her remarks.



July 8, 202115:59

#4.5 FLOTUS pool: background on vaccination site origin 
As promised, a White House official provides information on the impetus of this particular vaccination site. Again, your pooler only saw the one older gentleman and the mom and two teenage daughters today at the site during FLOTUS's visit.
Background:
This event is part of the Savannah-Chatham County Public School System (SCCPSS)'s efforts to vaccinate students in preparation for full in-person instruction starting in the fall. Previously, the school district held six COVID-19 vaccination clinics at different sites in the district. Only SCCPSS educators and staff were eligible to be vaccinated at those clinics. This will be the district's first clinic held at Alfred Ely Beach High School and their first clinic that will be open to the broader Savannah community.
Thursday's clinic is open from 2:00 to 4:30 PM. At this clinic, the Chatham County Health Department will administer three types of vaccines: Pfizer, Moderna, and Johnson & Johnson



July 8, 202117:14

#5 FLOTUS pool: FLOTUS remarks 
FLOTUS took the podium at approximately 4:40pmand spoke for about ten minutes. She emphasized the virus is still out there and that vaccination is essential for preventing the spread.(highlights, not exact transcript, apologies)
"As far as we've come, we're not done yet," she said, adding only 44% of Georgia residents have had one shot of vaccine. "And that's just not enough. And that's why we caxme do Savannah today."
"Everyone who is listening and watching on those cameras at the back of the room," motioning to the four or five local news crews and cameras, "I'm here to ask you, to plead with you, please get vaccinated."
biden also went off script to talk about an encounter she had this morning while at her exercise class (she frequents the barre studio on 14th Street, NW, in DC, but unclear if this was the specific class) with an attendee who approached her and thanked her and said she had lost four family members to covid. And then had personally gone out and gotten "over 140 people vaccinated." "I think that's what each of us has to do," said Biden.
She closed her remarks by saying the shots are free, safe, and that sites can be found all over.
At 5:02 your pool is rolling away from the school – but a birdie tells us we might have an off the record stop ahead, so standby …



July 8, 202117:24

#6 FLOTUS pool: off the record stop at local restaurant 
Jill Biden made an unscheduled stop at the Green Truck Neighborhood Pub on our way back to the airport. The small diner was suggested to her by Senator Warnock, who said they have great pies. Biden picked up a box of what looked to your pooler like pecan pies from the women working behind the counter. Several of the diners (a tiny place with only about ten tables) appeared nonplussed by the first lady's presence and continued to eat and have conversation during her visit, but a handful were excited to see the first lady and took pictures.
Your pooler grabbed a few shots, attached.


At 5:14 we are rolling again, back to the airport.



July 8, 202117:51

#7 FLOTUS pool: departing Savannah, en route to Orlando 
Uneventful motorcade back to the airport where the skies look a little ominous. FLOTUS boarded the plane quickly, this time carrying a large brown tote bag.
Still unclear if your pool (of two) will get some of the aforementioned pie … cliffhanger.
At 5:46 we are shortly wheels up for part two od this trip: Orlando and the spelling bee.



July 8, 202119:16

#8 FLOTUS pool: flotus comments, arrival in Orlando 
FLOTUS's plane touched down at 6:42pm
She deplaned and was greeted on the tarmac by Rep. Val Demings.
We are now rolling to the ESPN Wide World of Sports Complex, about a 20 minute drive, for the scripps Spelling Bee.
Your pooler got a brief on the record comment from flotus about her continued travel to southern states where vaccination numbers are low, and how long she intends to keep up this schedule for vaccine push.
"As long as the Covid team asks me to go," said Biden. "This is a team effort and I'm part of the White House team." Biden added that since it is summer and she is not in the classroom teaching she has more time and flexibility to make these trips. Biden said she is trying to zero in on those who have little interest in being vaccinated. "There are people who think, 'oh I haven't gotten sick so far,' or 'it's not so serious,'" adding those are the Americans who need to keep hearing her message. "We have to do everting we can do."



July 8, 202119:20

#9 FLOTUS pool: Savannah remarks 
Passing along from the East Wing, these are the remarks FLOTUS gave at Alfred E. Beach High School in Savannah.
***It's hard to believe how far we've come since this point last year.
Do you remember how quiet the streets were then?
Remember the empty grocery aisles?
And just how uncertain and lonely so many of us felt?
Today, we're finally getting back those things we lost: hugging the people we love…catching up with friends face to face…smiling at strangers.
But as far as we've come, we're not done yet.
Right now, only 44% of Georgia residents have had at least one shot. And that's just not enough. Which is why we came to Savannah today.
So, to everyone who is listening or watching at home, I'm here to ask you to make the choice to get vaccinated.
Because it's safe.
The vaccines have been rigorously tested and millions of Americans have already received their shots.
Because it's effective.
Studies show that vaccines are the best way to protect against death or hospitalization from COVID-19.
And, because it's free.
I get it—maybe with work and family, you don't think you have time to go to a clinic.
But most places don't require appointments—you can just walk up and get your shot.
And no matter where you live, there is a vaccination site close by. Just go to "Vaccines-dot-gov" to find one.
If you still have questions—that's OK!
Talk to your doctor.
This is your choice—so get the information you need from someone you trust.
And, they don't hurt. I promise, I barely felt mine. And I hate needles!
Maybe you think that whether or not one person gets vaccinated doesn't matter.
It does.
The risk of COVID is still out there.
Even one hospitalization—one life lost—is too many.
Senator Warnock asked me to come here because your health and your life matter to him. And I came here because you matter to the President and to me.
When you choose to get vaccinated, you're protecting yourself and this entire community.
You make it safer for your kids…your family members…your church friends.
Person by person, we can stop this virus together—but only if we all do our part.
That's what we do...as Georgians…as Americans.
It's who we are: people who take care of our neighbors and friends. People who know that, together, there is no challenge we can't face—no obstacle we can't soar above.
So, do your part. Choose to get your shot.
For yourself…for your family…for your city.
And then, we'll all be able to celebrate summer the way it should be: safe and together.
God bless you, Savannah, and go get vaccinated!



July 8, 202119:52

#10 FLOTUS pool: arrival at Spelling Bee, remarks 
FLOTUS arrived at the arena and met separately with the finalists and their families in their private holding rooms – your pool was not present for these meetings, we were taking to a holding press box area in the arena.
Due to Covid precautions, this year's bee does not have the massive audience as years' past. However, there is a good deal of media and there are several contestant family members present.
The first lady came out to the podium to give brief opening remarks. She mentioned that she was the 6thgrade spelling champion at her school, however, on the day of the regional competition, she told her mom she was sick.
"The truth is, I was too nervous to go," said Biden, adding she admires the bravery and confidence of the 11 finalist spellers at tonight's competition.
Your pool has been told that we might be staying for the bulk of the competition, but we also might leave earlier to avoid some weather.
Either way, your pooler, who is a massive Scripps Spelling Bee fan, is in word heaven.
We are awaiting the beginning of the competition, which is scheduled for 8pm.



July 8, 202120:27

#11 FLOTUS pool: more on the record remarks from plane 
Hold time is allowing for your pooler to send a few more last notes from the brief on-the-record questions I was able to ask Dr. Biden on the flight from Savannah to Orlando.
I asked FLOTUS if there is a way to gauge metrics after her trips, to see whether her visit is making or has made an impact on vaccination numbers:
"We do check to see if the numbers go up after I've been."
"We try to get the measurements on the impact. The [White House] Covid team circles back and we do try to see." (She is referring to circling back with regional health department teams on the ground in the places she visits.)
FLOTUS also again referenced the woman who came up to her in exercise class this morning, the story she shared during her remarks in Savannah. The woman told FLOTUS that she had lost four members of her family to Covid, and that as a result she made it her mission to get as many people as she could vaccinated. Biden said the woman told her that number to date was over 140 people.
"It was so sad, how upset she was," said FLOTUS, adding the potential fallout from not getting vaccinated is why she keeps traveling. "I want to make the point that people don't think it will happen. They think it won't happen to them, and then it does, and then it's too late. I don't want them to take their health for granted."
As for her focus on southern states – she's been to Alabama, Florida, Mississippi, Tennessee, Georgia – she said, "Where the [vaccination] numbers are low, that's where I'm going."



July 8, 202121:01

#12 FLOTUS pool: spelling bee 
Flotus sat in the audience with some of the families and watched several of the spellers go through the first round - several were eliminated.
She is now being interviewed for ESPN (we cannot hear from our perch) and your pool is being rounded up to head to vans back to the airport.



July 8, 202121:49

#13 FLOTUS pool: wheels up back to JBA 
At 9:24 FLOTUS boarded the plane after an uneventful motorcade. On board all of the TVs have been turned to ESPN for the final rounds of the spelling bee (volume turned up too!)
There are three spellers left and it is a nail biter.
At 9:31pm we are about to taxi and head back to JBA.



July 9, 202100:45

#14 FLOTUS pool: arrival JBA 
FLOTUS touched down at 11:45pm at JBA. It is misty and windy but it appears we have missed the bulk of the rain.
FLOTUS deplaned wrapped in a white shawl and we are rolling back to the White House.
Oh - as we departed the plane, the flight attendants handed us a paper bag branded with a red fox face (Executive One FOXtrot) and inside is a piece of the pecan pie.



July 9, 202100:53

#15 FLOTUS pool: arrival White House 
At 12:17am FLOTUS arrived back to the White House. Your pooler did not see her exit her vehicle or enter the building.
And with that end to a long day, goodnight!




  