
    Detroit, MI – As the only candidate in the field to have won and governed a state Trump won, Montana Governor Steve Bullock made the case for serious solutions that will make people's lives better, like getting dark money out of our elections, making healthcare more accessible and affordable, and building an economy that works for all Americans.
Here's what they're saying about Governor Bullock:
Chris Cilizza for CNN:
"The Montana governor, to his immense credit, understood that this debate was his one big chance to make an impression with voters -- and move from the third tier upward. I'm not sure if his numbers will move in a major way, but Bullock went for it -- from his opening statement on. He made clear, time and time again, that he did not believe that the liberal views of Warren and Sanders were grounded in reality and did believe that those views would cost Democrats the election. He blasted "wish-list economics" and talked about the need to solve the "here and now" problems rather than offering what he views as unworkable pie-in-the-sky policies. If moderates were looking for someone other than former Vice President Joe Biden to support in this primary, Bullock offered himself as a viable alternative."
Patti Solis Doyle for CNN:
"Most of us have not seen Governor Bullock on a national stage until tonight. But, with a strong performance in the debate and an embrace of more moderate policies, he is providing a viable alternative to the other more moderate candidate who calls himself a progressive and cloaks himself with the Obama administration – former Vice President Joe Biden. For those Democratic voters who viewed Biden's debate performance last month as lackluster, Bullock will be appealing."
Gabriel Debenedetti in NY Magazine:
"[Bullock] demonstrated a potent ability, and willingness, to personalize difficult topics. 'Healthcare is so personal to all of us. Never forget when my 12-year-old son had a heart attack, within 24 hours of his life. Had to be life-flighted to Salt Lake City,' he said, when asked about why he doesn't support Medicare for All. 'But because we had good insurance, he's here with me tonight. At the end of the day, I'm not going to support any plan that rips away quality health care from individuals. This is an example of wish-list economics. It used to be just Republicans who wanted to repeal and replace. Now many Democrats do, as well.' The debate hall then fell silent when, speaking about gun control, he revealed, 'Like 40 percent of American households, I'm a gun-owner, I hunt. Like far too many people in America, I've been personally impacted by gun violence. Had an 11-year-old nephew, Jeremy, shot and killed on a playground.'
In POLITICO:
"Steve Bullock was sharp, came across as relaxed, confident and reasonable, and drew important distinctions with both Warren and Bernie Sanders. He articulated an attractive centrist case, but he made his contrasts without coming across as petty, angry or desperate. The Montana governor was also well-equipped to defend his recently adjusted position on a proposed assault weapons ban—and able to flip the incoming hits into a discussion about some of his in-state successes."
  