
    Memorandum for the Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development 
Subject: Designation of Officers of the United States Agency for International Development to Act as Administrator
By the authority vested in me as President under the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including the Federal Vacancies Reform Act of 1998, 5 U.S.C. 3345 et seq., I hereby order that:
Section 1. Order of Succession. 
Subject to the provisions of section 2 of this memorandum, during any period when both the Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development (Administrator) and the Deputy Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development (Deputy Administrator) have died, resigned, or otherwise become unable to perform the functions and duties of the office of Administrator, the following officers of the United States Agency for International Development, in the order listed, shall perform the functions and duties of the office of Administrator, if they are eligible to act as Administrator under the provisions of the Federal Vacancies Reform Act of 1998, until such time as the Administrator or Deputy Administrator is able to perform the functions and duties of the office of Administrator:
Assistant Administrator for Policy and Program Coordination;
Assistant Administrator for Legislative and Public Affairs;
Assistant Administrator for Management; and
The Assistant Administrators for the following Bureaus in the order in which they shall have taken the oath of office:

Bureau for Africa; Bureau for Asia and the Near East; Bureau for Democracy, Conflict, and Humanitarian Assistance; Bureau for Economic Growth, Agriculture, and Trade; Bureau for Europe and Eurasia; Bureau for Global Health; and Bureau for Latin America and the Caribbean. 
Sec. 2. Exceptions. 
(a) No individual who is serving in an office listed in section 1 in an acting capacity shall, by virtue of so serving, act as Administrator pursuant to this memorandum.
(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of this memorandum, the President retains discretion, to the extent permitted by the Federal Vacancies Reform Act of 1998, 5 U.S.C. 3345-3349d, to depart from this memorandum in designating an acting Administrator.
GEORGE W. BUSH
  