
    Your Imperial Majesty:
This is the third time that we have had the honor of welcoming you in this room since I have been President of the United States, but this time we are especially honored because we welcome not only you but one of the most glamorous and gracious ladies in the world, Her Majesty, the Empress of Iran, and we are so happy that she accompanied you on this trip, and you are both doubly welcome.
As we think of those meetings that we have had previously, and as we look back over the years, we also realize how much has changed in the world since we first met 20 years ago and also how much has changed even in the brief period of time since our meetings here in this house.
This is the first time, for example, that we find that no longer is the United States at war in Vietnam, since your visits to the United States. For that, we are thankful.
We also take note of the fact that as we look back over the span of 20 years, as you were saying earlier in our conversation, that despite all of the problems that exist in the world, there is perhaps now a better chance for building a structure of peace for all people in the world than at any time since the end of World War II. And this is a chance that all of us world leaders must not allow to slip by.
This has been the subject of our talks today. And I can only say, in speaking to this very distinguished group of your friends, friends of Iran--and everyone in this room and those listening to us on this recording are friends of your country--I can say to them that as we think of the peace of the world, that Your Majesty plays a very central role in terms of keeping that peace and of building it.
For example, when we think of where Iran is, its place in history, going back 2,500 years, its place geographically, where it is the bridge between Europe and Asia, where it is the opening to the Indian Ocean and South Asia, and also to the Mideast, when we think also of the very strategic place that Iran occupies in that critical area of the world which many believe is potentially the most explosive part, the whole area of the Mideast and the Indian Ocean, I can only say that those who want peace, as you want it and as I want it and as all of us in this room want it, those of us who believe in peace, we are fortunate that Your Majesty occupies the place of leadership that you occupy today.
For the 20 years that I have known you, Your Majesty, you have worked for the progress of your own people with remarkable results, and you have also worked for peace and stability in not only your part of the world but in all the world. And looking to the future, we know that your leadership will be critical in determining that we can find a way to avoid any kind of eruption which could lead to breaking the peace in that part of the world, which all of us look upon today as potentially dangerous.
Having spoken of these very serious subjects, may I say on a very personal note that Mrs. Nixon and I recall our visit to your country in 1953, to Tehran, and how graciously you received us, and then again in 1967, when I was there alone, and then, of course, again last year, just after our visit to the Soviet Union.
We have a very special place in our hearts for the people of Iran and a very special place for you--a special place for you, first, as a courageous leader of your own people, as one who has worked for progress for the people of Iran, your people, and also as a world statesman who has contributed so much in the past and, we know, will contribute so much in the future to building that structure of peace which is so essential for all of us to enjoy.
For these and many other reasons that people in this room will share, I know that all of you will want to join me in the toast that I will propose to His Imperial Majesty, the Shahanshah, and to Her Majesty, the Empress of Iran..
  