
    As Joe Biden proposes a series of disastrous economic and energy policies authored by his socialist advisors, he is simply underscoring the deep contrast between his decades-long record of failure and President Trump's history of success. President Trump has spent his first term in office undoing the destructive policies of Joe Biden and other Democrats, including high taxes, job-killing regulations, and catastrophic trade deals. Now, Joe Biden is embracing the Green New Deal and other socialist priorities that would devastate American families and businesses. A Joe Biden presidency would be a disaster for American workers, and it is vital that voters re-elect President Trump to continue to renew, restore, and rebuild our economy.
Earlier today, Donald J. Trump for President Inc. hosted a press briefing call with House Republican Whip Steve Scalise (LA-01) and Representative Mike Kelly (PA-16). As the speakers confirmed, only President Trump will stand up for the American people and reject the radical left's job-killing, socialist agenda.
"A little later today, Joe Biden is going to be rolling out his energy plan, but he's already indicated the direction that he plans to go when he embraced the Green New Deal and tapped A.O.C. to be his top advisor on energy issues," said House Republican Whip Steve Scalise (LA-01). "We know what that kind of radical energy policy looks like, and the studies show clearly it would be devastating to jobs in America, but more importantly it would potentially double or triple the household electricity cost for hardworking families in America. That's not the direction we want to go."
"Look at the endorsement that former Vice President Joe Biden is talking about – the National Resources Defense Council. Now, this is a guy who's said that he's not going to eliminate fracking in Pennsylvania, but the rest of the country better watch out. I mean, this guy – as I said – he'll say anything that he needs to say," said Representative Mike Kelly (PA-16). "He's touting the endorsement of the National Resources Defense Council. This is the exact Council that says, 'no, we're going to eliminate fracking, we're going to look at all of these fossil fuels and we're going to do away with them.' You know what, if Joe Biden really cared about Pennsylvania, why would he propose killing over 600,000 jobs that are supported by fracking?"
  