
    "We teach sex education, but there's no portion of sex education which talks about the advantages of waiting... We're saying let's provide an opportunity for parents and school districts to add abstinence to the curriculum." - Gov. Mitt Romney (Andrea Estes And Tracy Jan, "State Widens Teaching Of Abstinence," The Boston Globe, 4/21/06)
THE ROMNEY VISION: PROMOTING ABSTINENCE EDUCATION
Gov. Romney Fought The Battle To Promote Abstinence Education In The Classroom. "Gov. Mitt Romney today announced that Healthy Futures, a health program that promotes the benefits of abstinence, has been awarded the contract to manage the state's abstinence education program for middle school students." (Office Of The Governor, "Romney Announces Award Of Abstinence Education Contract," Press Release, 4/20/06)
- The Boston Globe: "It Will Be The First Time That The State Will Spend Federal Abstinence Education Funds In Massachusetts For Classroom Programs." "It will be the first time that the state will spend federal abstinence education funds in Massachusetts for classroom programs. The state has received $700,000 in abstinence money yearly since 1998, but the money has gone only toward a media campaign urging teens to wait before having sex." (Andrea Estes And Tracy Jan, "State Widens Teaching Of Abstinence," The Boston Globe, 4/21/06)
SEN. BARACK OBAMA: SEX EDUCATION... FOR KINDERGARTENERS?
Sen. Barack Obama Recently Told Planned Parenthood He Supports Sex Education For Kindergarteners. "Sen. Barack Obama, D-Ill., told Planned Parenthood Tuesday that sex education for kindergarteners, as long as it is 'age-appropriate,' is 'the right thing to do.' ... 'But it's the right thing to do,' Obama continued, 'to provide age-appropriate sex education, science-based sex education in schools.'" (Teddy Davis and Lindsey Ellerson, "Sex Ed for Kindergarteners 'Right Thing to Do,' Says Obama," ABC News' Political Radar, http://blogs.abcnews.com/politicalradar/2007/07/sex-ed-for-kind.html, Posted 7/18/07)
Sen. Obama Mocked The Issue, Which Previously Came Up In His 2004 Senate Race. "'I remember Alan Keyes ... I remember him using this in his campaign against me,' Obama said in reference to the conservative firebrand who ran against him for the U.S. Senate in 2004. Sex education for kindergarteners had become an issue in his race against Keyes because of Obama's work on the issue as chairman of the health committee in the Illinois state Senate. '"Barack Obama supports teaching sex education to kindergarteners,"' said Obama mimicking Keyes' distinctive style of speech." (Teddy Davis and Lindsey Ellerson, "Sex Ed for Kindergarteners 'Right Thing to Do,' Says Obama," ABC News' Political Radar, http://blogs.abcnews.com/politicalradar/2007/07/sex-ed-for-kind.html, Posted 7/18/07)
  