
    CENTENNIAL, CO -- U.S. Senator John McCain's presidential campaign today announced its Colorado Small Business Leaders for McCain coalition chairs. Several Colorado small business owners endorsed John McCain's economic plan today, joining business leaders across the country who have praised John McCain's jobs-first plan to grow the economy as president.
"My family has lived and done in business in Colorado for over 100 years. We have grown from a small one man blacksmith shop to a business of over 400 hundred employees," said Mark Johnson, President and CEO of Jonson Storage and Moving Company. "We did not get there alone. As a company we have been able to succeed because we invested in our employees and our business. That is why we support John McCain's pro-growth tax policy of permitting businesses to immediately deduct the cost of equipment and technology so we can continue to grow our business and bring more jobs to Colorado. Today's challenging economic climate is not the time to burden small businesses with more taxes."
Ann Brown, president of News Vista Enterprises in Golden Colorado, added, "John McCain has put forth an economic plan that will help small business create jobs, while Senator Obama is proposing raising taxes on small businesses like ours and voting to increase taxes for Coloradoans making as little as $32,000 a year. As a small business owner, the difference could not be more clear and I am proud to support John McCain for president."
Today in Washington, DC John McCain addressed the 79th Annual LULAC Convention where he is discussing how his jobs first plan will help the Hispanic community. Later this week John McCain will travel to Ohio, to talk with working families about his plan to create more jobs in America.
SMALL BUSINESS LEADERS FOR MCCAIN CHAIRSMichele Austin, President and CEO, Square One Consulting Services, Englewood
Greg Barrow, Founder/Managing Director, General Capital Partners, Denver
Ann Brown, Owner, New Vista Enterprises, Golden
Gordon Brown,Owner, New Vista Enterprises, Golden
George Caulkins, Principal, Greendeck Capital, Denver
Sherry Collins, Owner, S.D. Collins & Associates, Lakewood
Michael Eddy, Founder/Managing Director, General Capital Partners, Denver
Stephen Halliday, President, Ling and Louie's Asian Bar and Grill, Denver
Anne McMahon, President, Friend of the Family LLC, Littleton
Beth Isern, President and CEO, Behany Manufacturing, Nederland
Mark Johnson, CEO, Johnson Storage and Moving Company, Centennial
Harold Smethills, Managing Director, Hill Equities, LLC, Golden
Jerrold Spaeth, President and CEO, Metro Denver Title, Denver
Robert Spicer, Partner, First Financial Equity Corporation, Denver
Tammy Swanson, President, Optimum Operations, LLC, Fort Collins
Frank Tijerina, Jr.,Tijerina & Assoc, Denver
Susan Turner, Owner, Restaurant Management of Georgia, Colorado Springs
Michael Turner, Owner, Restaurant Management of Georgia, Colorado Springs
Scott Wyatt, CEO, Advantage Integrated Solutions, Denver 
  