
    Steyer calls Trump a failed businessman and says he's the Democrat who can take on Trump on the economy and win in TV ad that will debut during the debates
(San Francisco, July 29, 2019) — Today, presidential candidate Tom Steyer launched a new $500,000 ad campaign that will debut during the Democratic debates on July 30 and July 31. In the ad, Steyer asserts that he is the presidential candidate best prepared to go head to head with Trump on the economy, and calls out Donald Trump as a failed businessman. Steyer's 30-second "Trump is a Fraud" ad is his campaign's first TV ad to directly take on Trump. The ad will air nationally on CNN during pre-debate coverage on July 30, locally in Iowa, New Hampshire, South Carolina, and Nevada during both nights of the debates on July 30 and July 31, and nationally on CNN and MSNBC.
"Donald Trump failed as a businessman. He borrowed billions, and left a trail of bankruptcy and broken promises," Steyer said in the ad. "He hasn't changed. I started a tiny investment business and, over 27 years, grew it successfully to 36 billion dollars... I'm running for President because unlike other candidates, I can go head to head with Donald Trump on the economy and expose him for what he is — a fraud and a failure."
Steyer is uniquely suited to expose Trump as a fraud on the economy because of his successful private sector career, and believes that as the Democratic nominee he can turn Trump's perceived strength on the economy into a weakness by exposing Trump's fraudulent business career and his economic policies which have benefited big corporations at the expense of working families. Steyer believes it's important for Democrats to make a strong economic case to the voters, and hopes to hear the other candidates discuss how they would challenge Trump on the economy at the debates this week.
When Steyer announced his candidacy, he stated that he was not going to give Trump a free run during the Primary — and this is just the start. The ad comes as Steyer recently secured two qualifying polls that put him on track to appear on the debate stage in September. Steyer will continue his campaign tour this week with his first trip to New Hampshire.
See below for the full script:
Donald Trump failed as a businessman.
He borrowed billions, and left a trail of bankruptcy and broken promises.
He hasn't changed.
I started a tiny investment business and, over 27 years, grew it successfully to 36 billion dollars.
I'm Tom Steyer and I approve this message.
I'm running for President because unlike other candidates, I can go head to head with Donald Trump on the economy and expose him for what he is: a fraud and a failure.
  