
    
  STATEMENT OF ADMINISTRATION POLICY

(Senate)
(Sen. Mikulski, D-Maryland)
The Administration strongly supports Senate passage of S. 2648, making emergency supplemental appropriations for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2014. The bill provides needed resources for the near term to the Departments of Health and Human Services, Homeland Security, Justice, and State to support the Administration's aggressive, unified, and coordinated Federal response to the urgent humanitarian situation along the Southwest border and makes longer-term progress in stemming the flow of Central American migrants. The Administration encourages the Congress to move forward on long-lasting solutions provided by common-sense immigration reform. Unlike the House Republican approach, this bill responsibly addresses the humanitarian situation without injecting partisan provisions that are unworkable and would increase costs without solving the problem. Rather than holding necessary resources hostage to partisan provisions, the Administration encourages the Congress to move forward on long-lasting solutions provided by common-sense immigration reform.
The bill also provides the necessary resources for the Department of Agriculture to address imminent wildfire suppression and rehabilitation needs without resorting to damaging transfers from other critical forest health and fire preparedness priorities. Further, it includes the bipartisan proposal for a discretionary cap adjustment to provide funding certainty in the future for programs in the Departments of Agriculture and the Interior that often have to transfer funds to wildfire suppression during active fire seasons.
The bill provides funding to the Department of Defense to support the Government of Israel's request for critical missile defense needs. The funding will accelerate production of Iron Dome components in order to maintain adequate stockpiles.
The Administration urges the Congress to act swiftly to pass the bill to allow a timely and effective response to these pressing needs.
  