
    Pool Reports by Eric Kolenich, Richmond-Times Dispatch 



Sent:
Reports:




July 23, 2022 09:29

VP travel pool report #1 - Richmond
AF2 landed at 9:11 a.m. at Richmond International Airport. Motorcade is rolling.


July 23, 2022 11:16

VP travel pool report #2 - Richmond
?VP began a roundtable discussion at 10:21 a.m. with more than 20 Virginia legislators to discuss the protection of abortion rights.
Speakers included:
State Senator Jenn McClellanState Senator Louise LucasState Senator Mamie LockeDelegate Sally HudsonDelegate Candi KingDelegate Michelle MaldonadoCongressman Donald McEachin (D-04)
The press left at 10:45 a.m. and the discussion continued.
The VP also met with state legislators from across the country July 8 at the White House, July 14 in Orlando, Fla., July 16 in Philadelphia, July 18 in Atlantic City, N.J., and July 21 in Charlotte, N.C.


July 23, 2022 12:20

VP travel pool report #3 - Richmond
Quotes from Saturday's roundtable discussion between VP and more than 20 Virginia legislators.
VP: "You don't have to abandon your faith or your beliefs to agree the government should not be making that decision for that woman. It may not be something you choose to do, but let's all agree when it comes to the most intimate decisions that a woman can make, intimate decisions about heart and home, she should be able to do that without the government telling her what to do."
State Sen. L. Louise Lucas, D-Portsmouth, "We are a safe haven here in Virginia and we're going to fight like hell to make sure it stays that way."
VP: Regarding Republican Gov. Glenn Youngkin "I'm aware of the context in which we meet and what this means to the people of Virginia."
State Sen. Mamie Locke, D-Hampton, on the 10-year-old child who was raped and had to go to another state for an abortion. "Can you imagine the trauma that child would go through the rest of her life? I cannot imagine my 10-year-old self in that situation."
VP on filibuster: "Our president, Joe Biden, has been very clear he will not let the filibuster stand in the way on issues of the Women's Health Protection Act, the John Lewis Voting Rights Advancement Act and Freedom to Vote Act. … That's also why in an election that's coming up in 108 days we need two more senators in the United States Senate who will actually see this through."



  