
    The President today announced the appointment of 10 persons as members of the the Advisory Committee on Trade Negotiations. They are:
ROBERT B. DELANO, of Warsaw, Va., president of the American Farm Bureau Federation.
FRANK DROZAK, acting president of the Seafarers International Union and president of the AFL-CIO Madtimes Trades Department.
JACK FELGENHAUER, of Spokane, Wash., president of the National Association of Wheat Growers.
RUSSELL L. HANLIN, of Pasadena, Calif., president and chief executive officer of Sunkist Growers, Inc., an agricultural marketing cooperative representing 6,500 citrus growers.
RICHARD R. RIVERS, of Chevy Chase, Md., a member of the law firm of Akin, Gump, Hauer, and Feld, who served for 2 years as General Counsel of the Office of the Special Representative for Trade Negotiations and headed the U.S. team that negotiated the Agreement on Subsidies and Countervailing Measures in the Tokyo round of multilateral trade negotiations.
EDWARD L. ROMERO, of Albuquerque, N. Mex., president and founder of Solar America, Inc., and ELR Enterprises. Solar America designs, manufactures, and installs alternative energy systems; ELR provides consultant services in the areas of marketing and public relations.
ELSPETH ROSTOW, dean of the Lyndon B. Johnson School of Public Affairs at the University of Texas and professor of government (reappointment).
J. STANFORD SMITH, of Greenwich, Conn., chairman and chief executive officer of the International Paper Co. (reappointment).
GEORGE W. STONE, of Choctaw, Okla., president of the National Farmers Union and chairman of Green Thumb, Inc., which employs elderly rural citizens to carry out beautification and environmental programs.
ALAN WM. WOLFF, of Washington, D.C., a partner in the Washington law firm of Vether, Liipfert, Bernhard and McPherson. He served as deputy special representative for trade negotiations from 1977 to 1979. He was the first chairman of the 20-nation International Steel Committee of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.
  