
    "Americans everywhere — including Senator Bob Casey, a prominent Obama supporter — all agree: government isn't responsible for building our nation's businesses. It's just the latest out-of-touch remark from a president who has consistently made life more difficult for job creators and middle-class workers. Mitt Romney will deliver a new direction by pursuing pro-growth policies that help entrepreneurs create new businesses and hire new workers." —Andrea Saul, Romney Campaign Spokesperson
Senator Bob Casey — An Early Obama Supporter — Has Distanced Himself From President Obama's Claim That Americans Didn't Build Their Own Businesses:
Senator Bob Casey: "Everyone Knows That When Someone Builds A Business And Is Successful, They're Successful For A Variety Of Reasons. One Of The Reasons They're Successful Is They Work Hard." CASEY: "What I would say is—I'll just say it my own way. Everyone knows that when someone builds a business and is successful, they're successful for a variety of reasons. One of the reasons they're successful is they work hard. Usually, sometimes they just get lucky, but a lot of the times-- probably most of the time, at least in terms of people I've talked to over the years, it's hard work. They have to study hard in school, you've got to work hard to develop capital, to get access to capital. You've got to take risks that sometime put you in a jam for a while and you're fortunate enough to overcome that." (Senator Bob Casey, Remarks, Harrisburg, PA, 7/23/12)


Senator Casey's Comments Were A "Subtle Rebuke" Of President Obama's Recent Comments. "Pennsylvania's Democratic U.S. senator Monday issued a subtle rebuke to President Barack Obama's much-publicized comments about what it takes to build a successful business." (Eric Boehm, "Casey Rebukes Obama On 'You Didn't Build That' Comment," Pennsylvania Independent, 7/23/12)
FLASHBACK: Senator Bob Casey Endorsed Barack Obama For President At A Critical Point In The 2008 Democratic Primary. "Pennsylvania Senator Bob Casey endorsed Democratic presidential candidate Barack Obama today, providing the Illinois senator with a boost in a state where rival Hillary Clinton has the lead." (Kim Chipman and Kristin Jensen, "Pennsylvania Senator Bob Casey Endorses Barack Obama," Bloomberg, 3/28/08)
And Senator Casey Isn't The Only Person Criticizing President Obama's Out-Of-Touch Comments:
Steve Webb, Owner Of Snoopy's Hot Dogs: "Mr. Obama, I Did Create This Business." "Snoopy's Hot Dogs, a local hot dog and burger chain, has put up a sign on its location on Wake Forest Road with a message for the President: 'Mr. Obama, I did create this business. — Steve Webb.' Steve Webb started the business and posted the sign to protest the statements, which have been repeated over the world after someone sent  out a photo through Twitter on the Internet." (Lois Alley, "NC Business Owners Upset Over Obama Comment 'You Didn't Build That'," The Raleigh Telegram, 7/20/12)
Harold Hoffmeier, Founder Of All About Garage Doors: "The Obama Administration Has Not Helped Our Business In Any Shape Or Form." 'When we started our business, we did not hang a sign up and wait for the business to come to us,' said Harold Hoffmeier,' founder of All About Garage Doors.  'The Obama administration has not helped our business in any shape or form.'" (Lois Alley, "NC Business Owners Upset Over Obama Comment 'You Didn't Build That'," The Raleigh Telegram, 7/20/12)
Ben Bruno, Founder Of STR Software: "Mr. President: I Did Build My Business." (Ben Bruno, Op-Ed, "Mr. President: I Did Build My Business," Richmond Times-Dispatch, 7/22/12)
Jennifer Vickery Of National Strategies Public Relations: "I'm Appalled To Think Our President Feels Someone Else Did This For Me." "'I completely disagree someone has built my business for me. I've put in the personal sacrifice, hard work, personal risk, the innovative ideas and personally have created jobs for others. I'm appalled to think our President feels someone else did this for me,' said Jennifer Vickery of National Strategies Public Relations. 'I built my business despite the economic decline [and] despite being taxed as a small business owner in a way which is almost unaffordable.'" (Christine Parizo, Op-Ed, "We Built Our Businesses Ourselves: Entrepreneurs React To Obama Speech," Washington Examiner, 7/20/12)
Michael Podlensy, Owner Of Mike The Gardener Enterprises, LLC: "I Didn't See Any Piece Of Government Sitting At My Kitchen Table Helping Me Pack Seeds When I Started My Business In 2009." (Christine Parizo, Op-Ed, "We Built Our Businesses Ourselves: Entrepreneurs React To Obama Speech," Washington Examiner, 7/20/12)
Layton Roberts, President Of Employment Innovations: "It Is Insulting When President Obama Declares That Entrepreneurs And Small Business Owners Didn't Get To Where We Are Without The Help Of Government." "'It is insulting when President Obama declares that entrepreneurs and small business owners didn't get to where we are without the help of government. Already, I am faced with unemployment taxes that have quadrupled over the past several years, coupled now with a mandatory tax if not providing and paying for 1000 health insurance policies for my employees,' said Layton Roberts, President and CEO of Employment Innovations, Inc. 'If anyone should be praised, it is the hard-working women and men who have labored to make our business a success.'" (Christine Parizo, Op-Ed, "We Built Our Businesses Ourselves: Entrepreneurs React To Obama Speech," Washington Examiner, 7/20/12)
Leanne Hoagland-Smith: "No One Helped Me In The Ways The President Suggested. His Statement Revealed To Me His Ongoing Desire To Change The American Narrative." "Perhaps Leanne Hoagland-Smith sums it up best: 'I built my business through 60-100 hour work weeks, paying for my own ongoing professional development in excess of $50,000, calling on potential customers, etc. No one helped me in the ways the President suggested. His statement revealed to me his ongoing desire to change the American Narrative as Condoleezza Rice spoke of recently.'" (Christine Parizo, Op-Ed, "We Built Our Businesses Ourselves: Entrepreneurs React To Obama Speech," Washington Examiner, 7/20/12)
  