
    (COLUMBIA) – Florence Mayor Frank Willis today was named a national co-chair of Hillary Clinton's Mayors Council, made up of more than 100 current and former mayors from across the country who will advise the campaign on policy and outreach.
"Hillary Clinton is the right choice to be our next President. She's the right choice for Florence, for the Pee Dee, for South Carolina and for the country. I'm excited to take on this role advising the campaign," Mayor Willis said. "Hillary Clinton understands what our cities and communities are facing, and she'll be a great partner as our next President."
The council represents a broad cross-section of America, including urban, rural and suburban cities and towns that reflect the nation's diversity.
"I am honored that Mayor Willis will play an important role in our South Carolina and national campaigns," Clinton said. "With his help, we can bring our message of change across the Palmetto State and the nation.".
First elected mayor of Florence in 1995, Willis has helped spur economic development in the Pee Dee region, leading efforts to expand the presence of major companies such as Honda and Roche in the area. Prior to his election, Willis chaired the Florence County Economic Development Authority and founded the South Carolina Transportation Policy and Research Council in 1980.
Willis said his support of Clinton is largely based on her platform for local communities and his belief that she is the best candidate to begin working on those issues as the next President.
"She's a big supporter of the COPS program that put more police on our streets. She's a proponent of the CHIPS program to help cover uninsured children, and she's committed to making sure every South Carolina child and every American child has the opportunity for a world-class education. She's ready to work on these things from her first day in office and that's why we need her as President," Willis said.
More information about Hillary Clinton's Mayors Council, including its full membership, can be seen online at www.hillaryclinton.com.
  