
    Receives Powerful Endorsements from Attorney Willie Gary and Entertainer Quincy Jones
Senator Hillary Clinton held an important meeting with African American men last week, as the presidential candidate hosted a very special policy discussion around issues of concern to the African American community. At the luncheon event on July 26, 2007, Senator Clinton also received endorsements from some the nation's most successful Black businessmen, public officials and entertainers.
In a rousing introduction, Florida attorney Willie Gary announced his support for Senator Clinton, telling the audience of more than 200 Black men "I have much admiration and respect for her not only as a senator, but also as a personal friend. Hillary is a champion of civil rights and she cares about the future of America's youth. I believe her steadfast values, forward thinking and outstanding leadership is what our country needs in a President."
Robert "Bob" Johnson, the founder of BET and current owner of the NBA Charlotte Bobcats, explained why he is supporting Senator Clinton. "Electing someone we know who has stood with us many times on issues that we care about is important," he said. "I deeply respect Hillary Clinton and know that she is ready to lead our country as president."
Clearly moved by the showing of support for her candidacy, Senator Clinton noted that she has worked with many of the people in the room on a variety of issues over the years. She discussed the need to create better opportunities for young men of color in American, saying, "I am committed to continuing to be a good partner to ensure that our youth, in particular our at-risk youth, have the opportunity to succeed."
In response to a question, Senator Clinton indicated that she would push for diversity on the Supreme Court and criticized the Court for turning back the clock and dismantling measures that were designed to give minorities and women equal opportunities in schools and the workplace.
Alvin Brown, Senior Advisor and Director of Urban Policy for the campaign said the purpose of the African American Men for Hillary lunch was to bring together a prominent group of black men from a wide variety of businesses and backgrounds to showcase the diversity of supporters within the community for Senator Clinton. "Across the country, there are African American men who support Senator Clinton and this event was a snapshot of her supporters," he said.
The lunch meeting brought together a diverse group of men from the business, entertainment, faith, government, political, and non-profit sectors. There was also a moving video tribute from musical genius Quincy Jones, who announced his support for Senator Clinton.
Also speaking at the event was longtime supporter, Rep. Charles B. Rangel (D-NY), Chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee. "We have a phenomenon in this race, Hillary Clinton has provided an opportunity of hope for the next generation," he said.
The Rev. William H. Gray III, the former Majority Whip and House Budget Committee Chairman, said, "There is no other candidate with the experience of Senator Clinton. I believe she has the strength, wisdom, and compassion to be our nation's President."
Among those who attended the lunch included Mayors Doug Palmer (Trenton, NJ) and John Street (Philadelphia, PA); Bishop Tavis L. Grant II of the Greater First Church International (East Chicago, IN): Washington attorney Weldon Latham, Clinton Campaign National Co-Chair; and several members of the Congressional Black Caucus.
  