
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate two individuals to serve in his administration and announced his intention to nominate eight United States Attorneys.
The President intends to nominate Emil H. Frankel to be an Assistant Secretary of Transportation for Transportation Policy. He served as Commissioner of the Connecticut Department of Transportation from 1991 to 1995 during which time he was the Chairman of the Standing Committee on the Environment of the American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials and Vice Chairman of the I-95 Corridor Coalition. After leaving public service in 1995, he became Of Counsel to Day, Berry and Howard LLP, where he has consulted primarily on transportation and public policy issues. Frankel is presently a member of the Connecticut Governors Council on Economic Competitiveness and Technology and is an Advisor to the National Trust for Historic Preservation. He is a graduate of Wesleyan University, was a Fulbright Scholar at Manchester University in the United Kingdom and is a graduate of Harvard University Law School.
The President intends to nominate Read Van de Water to be Assistant Secretary of Transportation for Aviation and International Affairs. She is the founder of Carson King Consulting, an employment consulting and placement service which she has managed since 2000. From 1997 to 1999, she was Legislative Counsel for International Trade and Investment with the Business Roundtable, and from 1991 to 1997, she served as Legislative Counsel and Director of Government Affairs for Northwest Airlines. She served as Appropriations Associate and Legislative Assistant to Congressman Tom DeLay from 1987 to 1991. Van de Water graduated from the University of the South, received a Masters degree from George Washington University and her J.D. from Georgetown University Law Center.
The President intends to nominate John L. Brownlee to be United States Attorney for the Western District of Virginia. He is presently an Associate with Woods, Rogers and Hazelgrove in Richmond, Virginia, and also serves as a Captain in the U.S. Army Reserve JAG Corps. Earlier this year he left his position as Assistant U.S. Attorney in the District of Columbias U.S. Attorneys Office where he had served since 1997. Brownlee was a Law Clerk at the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Virginia from 1994 to 1996 and was a member of the U.S. Army from 1987 to 1991. He received his undergraduate from Washington and Lee University, received his M. B. A. from Golden Gate University and his J.D. from the College of William and Mary School of Law.
The President intends to nominate Paul K. Charlton to be United States Attorney from the District of Arizona. Charlton is presently serving as Interim U.S. Attorney for the District of Arizona and served as Assistant U.S. Attorney in that office since 1991. Before joining the U.S. Attorneys Office, he was an Assistant Attorney General in the Arizona Attorney Generals Office. He is a graduate of the University of Arizona and the University of Arizona Law School. The President intends to nominate Todd P. Graves to be United States Attorney for the Western District of Missouri. He has served since 1994 as the Prosecuting Attorney for the Platte County Court. From 1992 to 1994, he was an Associate with the Bryan Cave Law Firm of Missouri, and in 1991 Graves served as an Assistant Attorney General in the Missouri Attorney Generals Office. He is graduate of the University of Missouri and the University of Virginia Law School.
The President intends to nominate Michael G. Heavican to be United States Attorney for the District of Nebraska. He is currently the Interim U.S. Attorney and was the Chief of the Criminal Division of the U.S. Attorneys Office in Nebraska where he has served since 1991. From 1981 to 1991, he was the County Attorney for Lancaster County, Nebraska and from 1975 to 1981, he was Deputy County Attorney and then Chief Deputy County Attorney. He is a graduate of the University of Nebraska and the University of Nebraska Law School.
The President intends to nominate William W. Mercer to be United States Attorney for the District of Montana. He is currently the Interim U.S. Attorney and has been an Assistant U.S. Attorney for the District of Montana since 1994. From 1989 to 1994, he was in the Office of Policy Development at the Department of Justice as Counselor to the Assistant Attorney General and Senior Policy Analyst. Mercer received his undergraduate degree from the University of Montana received a M. P. A. from Harvard University and a J.D. from George Mason University School of Law.
The President intends to nominate Thomas E. Moss to be United States Attorney for the District of Idaho. He was elected in 2000 to the Idaho House of Representatives and is also a Partner with the law firm of Moss, Cannon and Romrell in Blackfoot, Idaho. From 1979 to 1999, Moss was the Bingham County District Court Prosecuting Attorney and held the same position from 1967 to 1971. He is a graduate of the University of Idaho and the University of Idaho College of Law.
The President intends to nominate John W. Suthers to be United States Attorney for the District of Colorado. He is presently the Executive Director of the Colorado Department of Corrections and was Senior Counsel with Sparks, Dix, P.C. from 1997 to 1999. From 1989 to 1997 he served as the District Attorney for the Fourth Judicial District of Colorado. From 1981 to 1989, he was an Associate and then Partner with Sparks, Dix, and Enoch P.C. Suthers served as Deputy District Attorney and Chief Deputy District Attorney for Colorados Fourth Judicial District from 1977 to 1981. He is a graduate of the University of Notre Dame and the University of Colorado Law School.
The President intends to nominate Anna Mills S. Waggoner to be United States Attorney for the Middle District of North Carolina. She has served since 1990 as a Judge on the Rowan County District Court and is presently the Chief Judge. From 1987 to 1990, she was a Partner with Woddson, Linn, Sayers, Lawther, Short and Wagoner and was an Associate from 1985 to 1987. She is a graduate of Agnes Scott College and Wake Forest University School of Law.
  