
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
July 9
In the morning, the President attended the opening session of the economic summit at Palazzo Reale in Naples, Italy.
The President attended a working luncheon in the afternoon with the G–7 leaders at the Hotel Vesuvio. Following the luncheon, he returned to the Palazzo Reale to attend afternoon sessions of the economic summit.
In the evening, the President and Hillary Clinton attended a dinner hosted by President Oscar Scalfaro of Italy at the Palazzo Caserta.
July 10
In the morning, the President attended sessions of the economic summit at Palazzo Reale.
In the afternoon, the President and Hillary and Chelsea Clinton toured the ruins of Pompeii.
Following an evening reception with U.S. Embassy staff at the Capodichino Airport, the President and Hillary and Chelsea Clinton traveled to Bonn, Germany.
The President declared a major disaster exists in the State of Florida following flooding caused by tropical storm Alberto and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts there.
July 11
In the morning, the President attended an arrival ceremony at the Villa Hammerschmidt. Following the ceremony, he met with President Chaim Herzog of Germany.
The President held afternoon meetings with Rudolf Scharping, chairman of the Social Democratic Party, and Klaus Kinkel, federal vice-chancellor at the Petersburg Guest House. Later that afternoon, the President and Hillary and Chelsea Clinton traveled to Worms, Germany. The President then went by bus to Oggersheim, Germany.
In the evening, the President and Hillary Clinton attended a dinner hosted by Chancellor Helmut Kohl at his home. They then traveled to Berlin, Germany.
The President announced his intention to nominate Curtis Warren Kamman to be Ambassador to Bolivia.
The President announced his intention to nominate Gabriel Guerra-Mondragon to be Ambassador to Chile.
July 12
In the morning, the President met with Chancellor Helmut Kohl and Jacques Delors, president of the European Community at the Reichstag.
In the afternoon, the President and Hillary Clinton visited the Oranienburger Strasse Neue Synagogue. Later that afternoon, the President and Hillary Clinton returned to Washington, DC.
The President announced his intention to nominate Eileen A. Malloy to be Ambassador to the Kyrgyz Republic.
The President announced his intention to nominate the following individuals to be trustees on the Board of Trustees of the Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation:
—Bill Anoatubby;
—Terrence L. Bracy;
—Matt James;
—D. Michael Rappoport;
—Anne Udall;
—Norma Udall.
July 13
In the morning, the President traveled to Albany, GA, where he took a helicopter tour of the damage caused by severe flooding in that State. Following the tour, he went to the Ayers Corporation Building at Southwest Georgia Regional Airport where he discussed Federal flood recovery assistance for Florida, Georgia, and Alabama with FEMA officials, Governors, and Members of Congress. He then went to a disaster assistance center, located at Highland Middle School, where he discussed flood assistance with members of the community.
In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC.
The President announced his intention to nominate Walter Slocombe to be Under Secretary of Defense for Policy.
The President announced his intention to nominate Jan Lodal to be Principal Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Policy.
The President announced his intention to nominate Ralph Earle II as Deputy Director for the U.S. Arms Control and Disarmament Agency.
The President announced his intention to nominate Joseph Nye, Jr., to be Assistant Secretary of Defense for International Security Affairs.
July 15
In the morning, the President traveled to Greensburg, PA, and then to Philadelphia, PA.
In the evening, the President attended the Pennsylvania Presidential Dinner at the Public Ledger Building. Following the dinner, he returned to Washington, DC.
  