
    THE PRESIDENT. Good morning, everybody. It's good to have you here. I know it's a relief to you to have your presidential election over. And you made a very wise choice. I'm just glad that none of you are 35 years old.
One of the most intense personal feelings that I have, as we're assembled here on the White House grounds in the Rose Garden, is gratitude to the American Legion for the wonderful work that has been done over the last number of decades, even generations, in helping to promote the interest of young men, at the present time in their lives, in the future of our Nation. I'm very grateful that Bob Spanogle is here and Bob Kruse, both representing that distinguished organization.
As you know, the Boys State effort was begun, I think, in 1934 and the Boys Nation in 1946, and literally hundreds of thousands of young Americans have been acquainted with the role of government, the problems, the challenges, the difficulties, the complexities of government during that long interval of time.
Our Nation has changed a lot since then. We've been through a major world war, through a very severe depression of the thirties and early forties, the Korean war, the Vietnam war, the intense, shocking social changes as we struggle to eliminate racial discrimination from the legal aspects of our country. Americans have always been strong enough and courageous enough to face those difficult challenges and to face changing times without fear and without trepidation and without timidity. My belief is that an integral part of that ability of Americans to meet changing times as a cutting edge of world society has been the intense interest of young people like yourselves in government and in the future of the Nation which you yourselves will lead in the years ahead.
There is no easy answer to the complex question that faces our Nation in any of the areas that you've discussed in the last few days, even here in Washington. Energy, national security, the role of government-how to do it efficiently and at the same time humanely—in meeting the needs of our people are very difficult questions. Those that I receive on my desk in the Oval Office are issues and questions that cannot be resolved, even with the best intention and the most careful focusing of attention, at the country courthouse or the city hall or the State capitol or the State legislatures of our country.
Those issues that I and the Congress share, in trying to deal with them on an enlightened basis for the best interest of our country, are indeed complex. But that doesn't meant that we need to despair, because in every test of our Nation, in every crisis which our Nation has ever faced, in every time of uncertainty that's come about historically—much more difficult, much more challenging, much more disconcerting in the past than at the present time—our Nation has never failed. When we could understand a question, when we could see clearly a problem or discern an obstacle, when our Nation united, we have never failed to answer the question, to resolve the problem, or to overcome the obstacle. That's the case now.
We've made remarkable progress in energy, which you've discussed recently. In the last 3 1/2 years, the Congress has forged, along with me, a policy that will guide our Nation to the future very well. We've already slashed our dependence on foreign oil, which is vital to our Nation's own military security as well as economic security. We've had remarkable success among the American citizens, who've rallied to this cause in a very sacrificial and patriotic way.
I won't go into detail on the other elements of government, because you know them quite well. One of the most controversial which you've had to face and will face shortly is registration.
Our country is challenged in its commitment to freedom and peace by the unwarranted Soviet invasion of Afghanistan. A small nation, no threat to anyone, deeply religious, fiercely committed to freedom for themselves, has been invaded in an unwarranted fashion by the Soviet Union with powerful, overwhelming military forces. The Soviets have not been successful in subjugating these courageous freedom-fighters, who are struggling for their own nation's liberation.
And the need for our young people to be registered—not to be drafted, we don't anticipate any need for a draft; but to be registered, to expedite the process if and when it is needed—is something that I have proposed and which I support and which I will carry out regardless of any obstacle that might arise in this country. And I need your help and your support in that respect.
Our people in this country, generation after generation after generation, have been willing to lay down their very lives, if necessary, to defend this country and the principles on which our Nation was based. We are asking a very minor demonstration of commitment and patriotism from Americans to strengthen our own country and its role in international affairs and the preservation of peace and for the enhancement of freedom. And I would like to have you leaders help me with this particular issue.
So far this week, we've had remarkable success in the post offices in the communities of our Nation, in young men coming forward and saying, "I am perfectly willing to register," and if necessary in the future—and God knows I pray as deeply and frequently as anyone on Earth that we will have continued peace—if it should become necessary, to offer your services. In my judgment it will not become necessary. And one of the best ways to prevent a mandatory draft, one of the best ways to prevent any military action in which our Nation must be involved, is a demonstration of unity and commitment to our country. So, I call on you to help me in that respect.
In closing, let me say that I want to congratulate Jonathan Shapiro, your new president, and also Kiernan Conway for their election. If I had the time, Id like to consult with them privately on the secret of their success.
I think this election year will give our Nation a chance to pursue an open, helpful debate on the controversial issues that afflict our country, which we can handle very well, and to carve out for you and for others a remarkable good life in the rest of this century and in the century ahead.
Thank you very much. Congratulations, Mr. President.
MR. SHAPIRO. Mr. President, we are so appreciative of you taking time out from your schedule to meet with the leaders of today and the young leaders of tomorrow. We'd like to also wish you the best in leading our country, in the great responsibility that it is. We'd like to present you with this pin of Boys Nation, a pin that we all wear proudly and we hope will let you remember us and what we stand for.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much.
MR. CONWAY. Mr. President, I am honored on behalf of the Boys Nation to present you today this honorary pen and pencil set on behalf of the entire Boys Nation and the American Legion program.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much.
MR. SHAPIRO. And finally, Mr. President, we understand that you are a rather avid runner. And we'd like to present you with this duffel bag with the Boys Nation insignia for your Presidential runs, sir.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you. Good luck. And I'll use it. Thank you.
Before I leave I'd like to come around, if you don't mind, and shake hands with everybody and thank you and congratulate you on your own choice as leaders of our country.
  