
    The President today announced his intention to appoint the following individuals to be members of the Advisory Committee on the Arts (John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts). The purpose of the Committee is to advise and consult the Board of Trustees at the National Cultural Center on existing and prospective cultural activities to be carried at the Center. The President also announced his intention to designate Herb Hutner as Chairman.
Herb Hutner, of Los Angeles, Calif., is a private investment banker. He is a founder of the Los Angeles Music Center; composer member of the ASCAP and director of the United Artists Communications, Inc.
Margaret Archambault, of Chicago, Ill., is active in the United Service Organization. She is a trustee for the Kemper Educational and Charitable Fund, a member of the President's Council of the Museum of Science and Industry, and a member of the Northwestern University Women's Board.
Robert D. Bain, of Bismarck, N. Dak., is president of Bain Insurance, Inc.
Charles Camalier, Jr., of Potomac Falls, Md., is a real estate developer and investor.
Clara Chambers, of Bloomfield Hills, Mich., is finance chairman of kidney research at the University of Miami. She is also a member of the Society of the University Founders of the University of Miami.
Margo Denny, of Anchorage, Alaska, is involved in cultural and civic activities in the community.
William M. Fine, of New York, N.Y., is president of the W.M.F. Fund, Inc. He is also past president of Bonwit Teller and Wamsutta Mills.
Beverly J. Goshell, of Charleston, S.C., is vice president of Charleston Marine Coal Terminal.
Cynthia Grassey, of Denver, Colo., is finance director of the Colorado State Republican Party.
Karl Halvorson, of Lake Oswego, Oreg., is president of Karl M. Halvorson, Inc.
Martin B. Hoffman, of Needham, Mass., is president of Hoffman Apparel International Corp.
Stephen Jernigan, of Oklahoma City, Okla., is president of Steve Jernigan, Inc.
Gary Kirke, of Des Moines, Iowa, is chairman of the board and chief executive officer of Kirke-Van Orsdel, Inc.
Gary Levine, of Bellevue, Wash., is president and chief executive officer of K and L Distributors, Inc.
John Marsh, of Gainsville, Va., is an owner and breeder of thoroughbred horses.
Alyne Massey, of Nashville, Tenn., is a member of the board of trustees for Vanderbilt University.
Julia M. McCabe, of Wilmington, Del., is a member of the board of trustees of the Delaware Art Museum.
Virginia McCann, of Short Hills, N.J., is involved in civic, cultural, and political activities in the community.
Jim Nelson, of Rapid City, Iowa, is an attorney at law. He is also a former State legislator.
Jeanette Nichols, of Shawnee Mission, Kans., is a leader in civic, cultural, and political activities in the community.
H. Davison Osgood, Jr., of Scarborough, Maine, is an attorney at law.
Voith Penberthy, of Scottsdale, Ariz., is owner of Mountain States Enterprises, Ltd. He is also the former owner of Scottsdale Restaurants, Inc. John Piercey, of Salt Lake City, Utah, is a lawyer. Millie Pogna, of Albuquerque, N. Mex., is an educational, cultural, and political leader in the community. She is also a member of the State Board of Education.
Gladys Prescott, of West Palm Beach, Fla., is with David H. Bloodworth, State Attorney. She is a founder and member of the Patrons Guild of the Palm Beach Opera.
Chesley Pruet, of El Dorado, Ark., is president of Pruet Oil. Ann Rydalch, of Idaho Falls, Idaho, is a procurement analyst for Catalytic, Inc. She is also second vice chairman of the State Republican Party.
Hugh K. Schilling, of St. Paul, Minn., is president of Horton Manufacturing.
William Siems, of Billings, Mont., is a self-employed CPA.
Harriet Slaybaugh, of Montpelier, Vt., is a member of the City Council and the Vermont Republican State Committee. She is also the president of the Vermont Federation of Republican Women.
Mrs. John Slocum, of Newport, R.I., is a Republican leader in the community. She is State cochairman of the Republican Party, as well as cochairman of the Newport City Committee.
Charles C. Spalding, of Honolulu, Hawaii, is a self-employed investor.
Richard Taylor, of Potomac, Md., is a senior member of Steptoe and Johnson.
Dr. Paul Tessier, of New Castle, N.H., is a urologist in Portsmouth, N.H.
James Thompson, of Harrodse Creek, Ky., is chairman and chief executive officer of Glenmore Distillers Co.
Judith Thompson, of Shoal Creek, Ala., is vice president and general counsel of Thompson Tractor, Inc.
Diane Ushinski, of Shaverton, Pa., is a civic and cultural contributor in the community. Dorothy Vannerson, of Sugarland, Tex., is co-owner of Vannerson Insurance.
Joseph Vetrano, of Bristol, Conn., is an international entrepreneur and developer.
Judith Woods, of St. Louis, Mo., is involved in various civic and political activities in the community.
  