
    Steyer's million-dollar ad campaign will air on national cable and local markets
(San Francisco, July 10, 2019) — Today, one day after announcing his bid for the 2020 Democratic nomination, presidential candidate Tom Steyer launched $1.4 million worth of broadcast ads highlighting his activist background and his vision for ending the corporate corruption of our democracy. The two new ads — "Money Where His Mouth Is" and "Keeping the Promise" — will run for two weeks from July 10 to July 23. The ads will air on CNN and MSNBC nationally, and locally in Iowa, New Hampshire, South Carolina, and Nevada — the first four primary and caucus states.
"I started a tiny investment firm in 1986 and grew it to 36 billion dollars," Steyer stated in one of the ads. "In 2010, I signed the Giving Pledge to fund good causes. Then I left my business to combat climate change, fix our democracy, and hold President Trump accountable. Last year, we ran the largest youth voter registration in history, helping double turnout and win back the house."
"Government by and for all the people, not just the powerful and well connected. That's the American promise," Steyer said in another ad. "But corporations and special interests are in control. Nothing's happening for real people. Our democracy has been purchased. The candidates running for President have great ideas, but we can't get anything done unless we make our democracy serve the people again. I'm running for President because it's time our democracy works for people."
The new ads largely focus on Steyer's platform to break the corporate stranglehold on the political process, push power back to the American people, and finally start passing policies that would be beneficial for all Americans.
"Tom is running for President because he sees how the broken political system in Washington has failed the American people and has a plan to change it," said Campaign Manager Heather Hargreaves. "He has a long history of taking on corporate power and winning major victories on health care, education, and the environment for millions of Americans. Our campaign is focused on exactly that — creating a United States that puts its people before corporations."
  