
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
July 19
In the afternoon, the President traveled to New Orleans, LA.
July 20
In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC.
The President announced the appointment of Richard Davies, Susan Savage, and Thomas L. Strickland as members of the National Recreation Lakes Study Commission.
July 21
In the late afternoon, the President signed the National Underground Railroad Network to Freedom Act of 1998 in an Oval Office ceremony.
The President announced his intention to nominate Ritajean H.
Butterworth to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for Public Broadcasting.
The President announced his intention to nominate Leigh A. Bradley to be General Counsel at the Department of Veterans Affairs.
The President announced his intention to nominate Bernard Rostker to be Under Secretary of the Army.
The President announced his intention to nominate John Melvin Yates to be Ambassador to Equatorial Guinea.
July 22
The President announced his intention to nominate James E. Newsome to be a Commissioner on the Commodity Futures Trading Commission.
The President announced his intention to nominate Harry J. Bowie to be a member of the Board of Directors of the National Consumer Cooperative Bank.
The President declared a major disaster in Indiana and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms, tornadoes, and flooding on June 11-July 7.
July 23
In the afternoon, the President met with President Julio Maria Sanguinetti of Uruguay in the Oval Office.
The President declared a major disaster in Tennessee and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by flooding and severe storms on July 13 and continuing.
The President announced the release to 11 States of $100 million in emergency Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program funds.
July 24
In the morning, the President met with University of Georgia gymnasts in the Oval Office.
The President announced his intention to appoint Robert L. Mallett as a member of the Board of Directors of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation.
The President announced his intention to appoint Robert Elliot Kahn as a member of the President's Information Technology Advisory Committee.
The President named Ambassador Richard L. Morningstar to be Special Adviser to the President and the Secretary of State for Caspian Basin Energy Diplomacy.
The President declared a major disaster in Wisconsin and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms, straightline winds, tornadoes, heavy rain, and flooding on June 18-30.
  