
    National Security Memorandum/NSM-12
Memorandum for the Vice President, the Secretary of State, the Secretary of the Treasury, the Secretary of Defense, the Attorney General, the Secretary of Commerce, the Secretary of Energy, the Secretary of Homeland Security, the Director of the office of Management and Budget, the United States Permanent Representative to the United Nations, the Director of National Intelligence, the Director of the Central Intelligence Agency, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and the Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation 
Subject: The President's Intelligence Priorities
The collection and analysis of timely and accurate intelligence is essential to our national security, foreign policy, law enforcement, and defense, and is critical to protecting and advancing the United States' vital interests. Global challenges posed by nation states and transnational threats alike demand the Intelligence Community (IC) use its resources in a coordinated manner that aligns with and is responsive to the President's overall priorities and direction.
Section 1. President's Intelligence Priorities. The President's Intelligence Priorities (PIP) will continue to serve as the President's primary mechanism for identifying and providing guidance to the IC on the intelligence topics and issues of highest importance. The PIP should inform the IC's budgetary, personnel, and other resource allocations to ensure collection and analysis of intelligence that provides insights, warning, or other illuminating information on the priorities contained therein.
Sec. 2. Process. Due to the evolving nature of the challenges we face as a Nation, I direct the following process to govern the development and execution of the PIP and ensure that it remains current and instructive:
a. The National Security Council (NSC) Deputies Committee, as described in NSM-2 or a successor directive, shall convene not less than every 2 years to update the PIP and recommend its approval by the President. Should there be a lack of consensus among the Deputies, the NSC Principals Committee shall review the PIP and recommend its approval by the President. Any lack of consensus among the NSC Principals Committee shall be presented to the President for decision.
b. The NSC staff will facilitate this review through a Restricted Interagency Policy Committee process, as necessary.
c. The Office of the Director of National Intelligence (ODNI), in close consultation with NSC staff, shall further establish and manage a robust National Intelligence Priorities Framework (NIPF) process which responds to the PIP and ensures that both the IC and additional departments and agencies that require intelligence are represented in the process of developing priorities. The ODNI shall also evaluate, on an ongoing basis, the IC's responsiveness to the designated priorities within the PIP.
d. The Director of National Intelligence (DNI) shall work with IC department and agency heads to ensure proper implementation of the PIP so that the President, through the Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs (APNSA), is adequately informed of any challenges related to implementation. In response to emerging threats or crisis events, the DNI, in consultation with the APNSA, may increase the priority of any item within the NIPF to a Priority 1 for period(s) not to exceed 180 days each.
Sec. 3. Definition. As used in this memorandum, the term "Intelligence Community" has the meaning specified in the National Security Act of 1947, as amended, and Executive Order 12333, as amended.
Sec. 4. Revocation. This memorandum supersedes National Security Presidential Directive/NSPD-26, which is hereby revoked.
JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
  