
    Pool Reports by Shira Stein, The San Francisco Chronicle 



Sent:
Reports:




July 24, 2023 11:55 CDT

VP Travel pool #1: Landed in Chicago
Hi all, I'll be subbing in as pooler on this trip to Chicago. AF2 landed at 11:43am CT and the press plane landed at 11:31am at Chicago Midway. Local press were present on the ground when we landed. We're loaded and on route to the Unidos US 2023 annual conference at McCormick Place Lakeside Centeras of 11:53am.


July 24, 2023 12:27 CDT

VP travel pool #2: Arrived at convention center and holding.
The motorcade arrived at the convention center (and apologies, the last report should have read center, not centeras) at 12:16pm CT. Pooler did not see VP exit her car.
Pool is holding in a room at the convention center.
The VP is scheduled to speak at 1:20pm CT.


July 24, 2023 13:17 CDT

VP travel pool #3: VP speaking at Unidos US
The VP is speaking right now, she started ahead of scheduler and there was a mixup with pool access. Livestream info is below.
On background from a White House Official
Today, as part of her blitz of summer travel in which she continues to engage with key constituencies across the nation, Vice President Harris will deliver the keynote address on the final day of the UnidosUS 2023 Annual Conference. The Vice President's remarks will be livestreamed at 2:20PM ET at www.whitehouse.gov/live.
In her remarks, Vice President Harris will praise UnidosUS for their work and leadership and highlight how the Biden-Harris Administration has advanced the quality of life for hardworking Hispanic families, including by creating jobs, investing in small businesses, and lowering health care costs. The Vice President will also speak to the theme of the conference, "Power of Us," and the necessity of broad coalitions to advance progress. The Vice President will address the continued attacks on fundamental freedoms we see across the nations including the freedom to learn America's full and true history, reproductive freedom, and the right to vote. Prior to remarks, the Vice President will meet a group of young leaders from across the nation who are apart of UnidosUS' "Lideres Avanzando" program.
The Vice President has worked with UnidosUS on variety of issues throughout her career. As California Attorney General, Vice President Harris worked with UnidosUS to pass the California Homeowners Bill of Rights, and then, as U.S. Senator, Vice President stood side by side with UnidosUS to call out the previous Administration's extremist policies on immigration. As recently as this month, UnidosUS President CEO and President Janet Murguia joined the Vice President for a convening of civil rights leaders to discuss the harms of artificial intelligence. In 2021, Vice President delivered pre-recorded remarks at UnidosUS' Capital Awards.
Today's remarks are a continuation of the Vice President engagement with the Hispanic community. In recent months, she lifted up the contributions of Latinos while hosting a reception for Dia De las Madres, spoke with Hispanic Executive for a profile, held a discussion with Rosario Dawson at the University of Nevada in Reno, and joined Telemundo in Miami for an interview about a number of issues facing Hispanic communities.


July 24, 2023 13:37 CDT

VP travel pool #4: remarks ended
The pooler missed the first half of the VP's speech due to problems with advance staff and convention staff. Your pooler apologies that she cannot provide any color from the VP's entrance to the ballroom or the first part of the speech.
The ballroom was full, to the extent that members of the audience were standing on the sides of the room and in the back half of the aisles.
The biggest applause line your pooler heard was for immigration reform for dreamers, farmworkers and other immigrants.
Pooler observed entire tables that did not applause or show any visual support for the VP saying that the government should not be telling a woman what to do with her body.
VP mentioned Unidos US' work overturning "the most discriminatory aspects" of Arizona's 2010 SB 1070, the "show me your papers law." She said the organization's work there "helped shine a light on our path."
Pooler heard at least one cheer for affordable childcare and immigration reform got whistles and extensive applause from the audience
VP exited the stage at 1:27pm CT.


July 24, 2023 
[APP Note: Report #5 does not exist or was not received by the APP.]


July 24, 2023 14:44 CDT

VP travel pool #6: fundraiser arrival
VP arrived at the Chicago home of Desiree and John Rogers at 2:36pm CT. Pooler will send notes from VP's remarks.
Background from the Biden-Harris campaign:
The Vice President's fundraiser in Chicago, IL is at the Residence of Desiree and John Rogers and is in support of the Biden Victory Fund.


July 24, 2023 15:46 CDT

VP travel pool #7: fundraiser remarks
VP began speaking at 3:10pm CT. Pooler spotted DNC Chair Jaime Harrison, Chicago Mayor Brandon Johnson, Rep, Raja Krishnamoorthi, Illinois Lt. Gov. Juliana Stratton, Chicago treasurer Melissa Conyears-Ervin and Illinois Supreme Court Justice Joy Cunningham. The room was extremely packed and warm, which the VP commented on, saying, "It's always warm because Desiree (Rogers) always packs the apartment."
VP thanked the attendees for their work electing them in 2020 during the height of the pandemic. She talked about how she has been talking to college students and they are "scared to death about the climate crisis" and worry about having children or buying a home because of it.
"Many people here were the reason there was a Barack Obama," to which Rep. Krishnamoorthi said, "I remember him."
"We are back at it again because our job is not done, and we have work to do."
VP brought up her trip to Jacksonville Friday, saying that the Florida education law was "the kind of thing I had to travel to Florida to deal with on Friday."
VP finished speaking at 3:29pm. Motorcade is headed to Chicago Midway as of 3:44pm CT


July 24, 2023 19:00 EDT

VP travel pool #8: wheels up
VP is wheels up at 4:26pm CT. Pooler out!


July 24, 2023 19:37 EDT

VP travel pool #9: correction
Your pooler was given incorrect information. The fundraiser was held at the resident of Desiree Rogers. John Rogers was present.
Background from the Biden-Harris campaign:
The Vice President's fundraiser in Chicago, IL is at the Residence of Desiree Rogers and is in support of the Biden Victory Fund.



  