
    President Donald J. Trump today announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key positions in his Administration:
Ronald L. Batory of New Jersey to be the Administrator of the Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation. Mr. Batory has more than 45 years of diverse leadership in the railroad industry. In his last capacity with Consolidated Rail Corporation, he served as President and Chief Operating Officer. Prior to that affiliation, he was President of the Belt Railway Company of Chicago. Mr. Batory earned his B.A. from Adrian College and his M.A. from Eastern Michigan University. Mr. Batory and his wife, Barbara, reside in Mount Laurel, New Jersey.
Susan Combs of Texas to be an Assistant Secretary of the Interior for Policy, Management and Budget. Ms. Combs has an extensive career in elected public office and in the private sector as a small business owner running a ranch in the Big Bend area of Texas. She served in the Texas Legislature, writing and passing the State's private property legislation, and working to ensure greater transparency in government spending. She was also elected to two Texas statewide offices: as the State's first woman Agriculture Commissioner; and then as the Texas Comptroller of Public Accounts, Treasurer, and Chief Financial Officer. Ms. Combs spent 16 years in statewide elected leadership.
Lewis M. Eisenberg of Florida to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Italian Republic, and to serve concurrently and without additional compensation as Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of San Marino. Mr. Eisenberg is a prominent American financier, investor, and philanthropist. Co-founder and managing partner of Ironhill Investments in New York, he has a record of engaging with State and local governments on complex issues. Mr. Eisenberg was the Chairman of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey for six years and was named a Founding Board Member of the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation, where he chaired its 9/11 Victims' Families and Transportation Advisory Councils. He is an Emeritus Member of Cornell University's Johnson Graduate School of Management Advisory Council and Life Member of the Cornell University Council. He earned a B.A. at Dartmouth College and a M.B.A. at Cornell Johnson School of Business.
Robert P. Kadlec of New York to be Assistant Secretary of Health and Human Services for Preparedness and Response. Currently, Dr. Kadlec is the Deputy Staff Director for the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence. Previously, he served as a Special Assistant to the President for Biodefense Policy for President George W. Bush. Dr. Kadlec holds a B.S. from the U.S. Air Force Academy; a M.D. from the Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences, and a M.A. in National Security Studies, Georgetown University.
Stephen B. King of Wisconsin to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Czech Republic. Mr. King is a prominent public servant and businessman who successfully acquired, built, and sold a specialty chemical manufacturing business and founded a family investment business. Earlier in his career, Mr. King investigated civil rights violations for the Federal Bureau Investigation, served as an investigator for the U.S. Senate's Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations, and was named Special Assistant to the U.S. Secretary of Agriculture for liaison between USDA and the Agriculture Committees of the House and Senate. Mr. King earned a M.A. and a B.S. at Western Illinois University.
Randal Quarles of Colorado to be a Member of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System for the remainder of a 14-year term expiring January 31, 2018, and for an additional 14-year term expiring January 31, 2032, and to be Vice Chairman for Supervision of the Federal Reserve System for a term of 4 years. Mr. Quarles has had an extensive career in government and international finance. He served as Under Secretary for Domestic Finance in the George W. Bush Administration, and before that as Assistant Secretary of the Treasury for International Affairs and U.S. Executive Director of the IMF. He had earlier served in the George H.W. Bush Administration as Deputy Assistant Secretary for Financial Institutions Policy. He is a founder and managing director of The Cynosure Group, a private investment firm in Salt Lake City. Before founding Cynosure, Mr. Quarles was a partner of The Carlyle Group and, earlier, of the law firm of Davis Polk & Wardwell. He graduated summa cum laude in philosophy and economics from Columbia University and earned a J.D. from the Yale Law School.
Mary Kirtley Waters of Virginia to be an Assistant Secretary of State, Legislative Affairs. Since early 2017, Ms. Waters has served as Deputy Assistant Secretary in the Bureau of Legislative Affairs at the State Department. Ms. Waters was a cabinet confirmation team leader for the Presidential Transition Team. Previously, she served as President of the North American Millers' Association, Vice President for Corporate Relations with the Federal Agricultural Mortgage Corporation, and Assistant Secretary for Congressional Relations at the Department of Agriculture. She spent 15 years as Senior Director and Legislative Counsel in the Washington office of ConAgra Foods. Ms. Waters earned a B.A. from the University of Illinois and a J.D. from George Mason University's Antonin Scalia Law School.
------
President Donald J. Trump Announces Intended Appointments to the Presidential Advisory Commission on Election Integrity
President Donald J. Trump today announced his intent to appoint the following individuals as members of the Presidential Advisory Commission on Election Integrity:

J. Christian Adams of Virginia
Alan Lamar King of Alabama

  