
    Last February it was announced that withdrawals of U.S. ground combat forces from Korea would be held in abeyance pending the completion of a reassessment of North Korea's military strength and the implications of recent political developments in the region. That reassessment has been completed, and these policy issues have been discussed with our key allies in Asia, with principal defense and foreign policy advisers, and leaders of the Congress. Circumstances require these further adjustments in the troop withdrawal plan:
—Withdrawals of combat elements of the 2d Division will remain in abeyance. The structure and function of the Combined Forces Command will continue as established last year.
—Between now and the end of 1980 some reductions of personnel in U.S. support units will continue. This will include one I-Hawk air defense battalion whose transfer to the ROK had been planned since 1976.
—The timing and pace of withdrawals beyond these will be reexamined in 1981. In that review the United States will pay special attention to the restoration of a satisfactory North-South military balance, and evidence of tangible progress toward a reduction of tensions on the peninsula.
These decisions have been shaped by the following considerations:
—First, recent studies by the intelligence community have confirmed that the size of North Korea's ground forces, armor, firepower, and mobility are larger than previously estimated. Given the inherent economic strength of the Republic of Korea and with U.S. support, the existing imbalance in North-South military strength can be remedied. Holding further withdrawals of U.S. ground combat units in abeyance will help reinforce deterrence, avoid conveying misleading signals to the North, and provide additional time for the ROK to put its ground defenses in order. For its part the Republic of Korea recognizes the need to augment its self-defense efforts, and President Park has stated that his government would expand defense spending significantly beyond previously planned levels and accord special urgency to improving its ground defenses.
—Second, during the recent visit to Seoul, President Park and President Carter jointly announced their desire to explore possibilities for reducing tensions in Korea with representatives of North Korea. Only through authoritative discussions between representatives of the North and South Korean Governments can a framework for peaceful coexistence between the North and South be established and progress toward eventual reunification of Korea be achieved. The United States is prepared to assist in that diplomatic effort. It is the judgment of the United States that further reductions of our combat elements in Korea should await credible indications that a satisfactory military balance has been restored and a reduction in tension is underway.
—Third, in recent months we have normalized relations with China and deepened defense cooperation with Japan. Concurrently we have witnessed the steady growth of Soviet military power in East Asia and the eruption of renewed conflict and new uncertainties in Southeast Asia. Under these circumstances, it is believed that these adjustments in our Korean withdrawal plan—together with the recent stabilization of our base agreement with the Philippines, initiation of defense planning discussions with Japan, and increased support for the security of ASEAN countries—will serve wider U.S. strategic security interests by reassuring our principal allies of our steadiness and our resolve.
Over time we will continue to adjust the detailed features of our contribution to the security of the Republic of Korea to reflect growing ROK economic and military strength and changes in the international situation. At present, however, these modifications in our withdrawal plans will best assure the maintenance of our security commitment, preserve an adequate deterrent, nurture the resumption of a serious North-South dialog, and stabilize a favorable U.S. strategic position in East Asia.
  