
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate eight individuals to serve in his administration.
The President intends to nominate Cynthia Shepard Perry to be United States Director of the African Development Bank for a term of five years. She has served since 1996 as the Director of International Investment Advisory Services for FCA Corp, in Houston, Texas and also serves as Honorary Consul General of Senegal. A former member of the Foreign Service, Perry served as the Ambassador to Burundi from 1990 to 1993, Ambassador to Sierra Leone from 1986 to 1989 and was the Chief of Education and Human Resources in the Africa Bureau of U.S. A. I. D. from 1982 to 1986. She is a graduate of Indiana State University and received an Ed.D. from the University of Massachusetts.
The President intends to nominate Steven A. Williams to be Director of the United States Fish and Wildlife Service. He is presently the Secretary of the Kansas Department of Wildlife and Parks after being appointed by Governor Bill Graves in 1995. From 1992 to 1995, he served as Deputy Executive Director of the Pennsylvania Game Commission. Williams served with the Massachusetts Division of Fisheries and Wildlife from 1985 to 1992, first as a Wildlife Biologist and then as Assistant Director for Wildlife. He is a graduate of Pennsylvania State University, received a Masters degree from the University of North Dakota and a Ph.D. from Pennsylvania State University in Forest Resources.
The President intends to nominate James B. Lockhart III to be Deputy Commissioner of Social Security. He is the Co-Founder and Managing Director of NetRisk, which provides risk management software and advice to major financial institutions worldwide. In 1996 he served as Senior Vice President of National Re, a reinsurance company and from 1993 to 1995, he served as Managing Director of Smith Barney where he was the head of the Private Finance Group and a Partner in the Insurance Banking Group. Lockhart was Executive Director of the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation from 1989 to 1993 and was the Director of the Association of Private Pensions and Welfare Plans from 1993 to 1995. A resident of Connecticut, he is a graduate of Yale University and received and M. B. A. from Harvard University.
The President intends to nominate Harold Craig Manson to be Assistant Secretary of the Interior for Fish and Wildlife. He has served as a Judge on the Superior Court of California for the County of Sacramento since being appointed by Governor Pete Wilson in 1998. From 1993 to 1998, he was General Counsel in the California Department of Fish and Game, and he was an Attorney with Downey, Brand, Seymour and Rohwer from 1989 to 1993. Manson was a member of the U.S. Air Force from 1976 to 1989 and is a graduate of the U.S. Air Force Academy and the University of the Pacific Law School.
The President intends to nominate Jeffrey D. Jarrett to be Director of the Office of Surface Mining, Reclamation and Enforcement at the Department of Interior. He is presently the Deputy Secretary for Mineral Resource Management in the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection and was previously the Director of the Bureau of District Mining Operations. From 1987 to 1994 Jarrett was the Deputy Assistant Director of the Office of Surface Mining at the Department of the Interior. He served with Cravat Coal Company and Affiliates from 1975 to 1987 excluding one year with the Drummond Company. From 1985 to 1987 he was Director of Planning and Evaluation for Cravat Coal Company; from 1979 to 1985 he was General Manager of the Companys Bluegrass Mining Division, and from 1975 to 1978 he was the Director of Reclamation. He received an Associate Degree in Land Stabilization and Reclamation from Belmont Technical College and received a B.S. from Geneva College.
The President intends to nominate Joseph M. Clapp to be Administrator of the Federal Motor Safety Administration at the Department of Transportation. Most recently he served as the Chairman of Roadway Services, Inc. Mr. Clapp joined Roadway Express in 1967 and became district sales manager in the Carolinas and was then named Vice President of Roadway Express. In 1985 he became Senior Vice President of the parent company, Roadway Services, then became Vice Chairman of Corporate Services in 1985. He was named Vice Chairman and President in 1986 and in 1987 he became Chief Executive Officer and Chairman. Clapp served as chairman of the Transportation Research Board of the National Academy of Sciences, was a member of the Federal Highway Research Coordinating Committee, and was chairman of the regular Common Carrier Conference of the American Trucking Association Foundation. He is a tree time recipient of the Wall Street Transcript CEO Gold Award for the trucking industry. A North Carolina native, he is a graduate of the University of North Carolina.
The President intends to nominate Mark W. Everson to be Controller of the Office of Federal Financial Management in the Office of Management and Budget. He is presently the Vice President for Finance and Controller for LSG Sky Chefs in Arlington, Texas. From 1988 to 1998, he held several positions with the Pechiney Group including Senior Vice President and Controller in Paris, France. From 1982 to 1988, Everson served as Executive Commissioner and then Deputy Commissioner of the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service and previously served at the Department of Justice and the U.S. Information Agency. He is a graduate of Yale University and received a Masters degree in accounting from New York University.
The President intends to nominate John F. Wolf to be Assistant Secretary of State for Non-Proliferation. A member of the Senior Foreign Service, he is an Examiner on the Board of Examiners at the Department of State and was a Special Advisor to the President and Secretary of State for Caspian Basin Energy Diplomacy. From 1996 to 1999, he was the Ambassador for Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation and in 1995 he was Coordinator for the Strategic Management Initiative. He served as Ambassador to Malaysia from 1992 to 1995 and as Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for International Organization Affairs from 1989 to 1992. He has held a variety of other positions both in Washington and overseas and has earned several awards for his service. Wolf is a graduate of Dartmouth College.
  