
    President Yeltsin. Of course, this is a short meeting. I met President Bush and his party. The main issues that we have covered and discussed were questions of the situation in the Russian Federation and in the country -- the matters of the union compact, and why there has been a delay in the signing of the union compact. I spoke about the decision, which subject was only yesterday agreed upon. And then we continued our dialog, which we launched in Washington, on the implementation of a number of programs in the Russian Federation. The four principal: storage and processing of agricultural produce, conversion of military industries, training and education of our management personnel, and the setting up of joint transportation ventures.
We have already made some movement while only 28 days have elapsed since our meeting in Washington. In some fields we have already prepared a draft agreement. And I am grateful too, Mr. President, for giving such an impulse, in such a speedy way, to promote our understanding. Besides, we agreed that after the signing of the union treaty, of the union compact, we shall maintain our links and contacts with the Department of Commerce and Department of the Treasury and Agriculture so that after the union compact is signed we would start formalizing our relations either through a memorandum or an understanding between Russia and the United States of America.
I am satisfied.
President Bush. So am I. [Laughter]
The President has given you a very good and thorough description of the agenda. The only point I would add is, one, it was a good meeting from the U.S. standpoint; and, two, President Yeltsin's visit to the United States was a big hit and furthered not only relations and understanding between the Russian Republic and the States, but also the Soviet Union and the States. So, we view this visit as a very positive step in the overall relationship between the United States and Russia and the United States and the Soviet Union.
I want to congratulate him on a job well done in the States.
Q. President Yeltsin, why didn't you attend the meeting with President Gorbachev?
President Bush. We've got to go. I'm late.
  