
    Washington Examiner by Brady Knox and Conrad Hoyt
Republican presidential candidate Nikki Haley called for the censure of the "Squad" following a series of "anti-Israel" comments.
In a speech at the Christians United for Israel conference on Monday, Haley lambasted the Biden administration's alleged abandonment and mistreatment of Israel but took particular aim at the group of progressive congresswomen who have made several comments directly critical of Israel.
"Biden has AOC and the Squad in his party," Haley said. "And just this week, a leading Democrat called Israel a 'racist state.'"
"The Democratic Party is the definition of extreme," she continued. "It's time to censure the Squad and get antisemitism out of America — for good!"
The former United Nations ambassador contrasted the Squad's treatment of Israel with her own during her tenure, pledging to continue that support if she is elected president next year.
House Democrats have come under fire recently for comments viewed as being against Israel. This past Saturday, Rep. Ilhan Omar (D-MN), a member of the Squad, compared Israel to Russia, likening the "occupation and displacement" Ukrainians face due to Russia's invasion to that of those in Palestine.
Around the same time, comments from Rep. Pramila Jayapal (D-WA) perhaps caused an even bigger stir. Jayapal told protesters at a conference in Chicago that she wanted to let them know, "We have been fighting to make it clear that Israel is a racist state."
While not a member of the Squad, Jayapal is the chairwoman of the House Progressive Caucus and thus often aligned with Omar and other members of the group, such as Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (D-NY). Jayapal later apologized for her comments, saying, "Words do matter and so it is important that I clarify my statement. I do not believe the idea of Israel as a nation is racist."
The Democrats' comments came just days before Israeli President Isaac Herzog is set to address Congress in a joint session on Wednesday. At least four House Democrats have said they'll skip the event, including Omar, Ocasio-Cortez, Cori Bush (D-MO), and Jamaal Bowman (D-NY).
In advance of Herzog's address, House Republicans are set to force a vote on a resolution affirming congressional support for Israel, wanting Democrats to go on the record as the party remains split on the issue of support for the country.
Haley's speech thus came at a most opportune time, and she made sure to target President Joe Biden as well for his treatment of the Middle Eastern country.
The presidential hopeful said Biden's policy regarding Israel was a continuation of that of the Obama administration and has weakened the United States on the world stage.
"For the sake of America and for Israel, we need to make Joe Biden a one-term president," Haley said. "We need a leader who advances peace in the Middle East."
She gave high praise to Israel throughout her speech, portraying the country as the sole beacon of freedom and democracy in a volatile region.
"Like you, for me, supporting Israel is a matter of faith," Haley told the crowd. "But supporting Israel is also a basic test of American leadership. It's not just the right thing. It's the smart thing. Standing with Israel has always been in America's interest."
"Think about it. Israel shares our values and our vision for peace," she added. "She's a nation of faith and a beacon of freedom — a democratic island in a sea of tyranny."
  