
    Pool Reports by Rozina Sabur, The Telegraph 



Sent:
Reports:




July 13, 2023 13:05

VP travel pool #1
Good afternoon, I'll be your print pooler for the vice president's appearance at a campaign reception in NYC this afternoon.
VP arrived at JBA, under a clear blue sky at 12.55 pm.
The temperature is currently 91 degrees.
VP boarded AF2 minutes after arriving. We are expected to be wheels up shortly.
On background from a White House Official  The Vice President was greeted by Major Nicholas Konishi, Director of Flight Line Protocol before departing for New York City, NY.
A reminder of the schedule sent out by the WH for timings:
DAILY GUIDANCE FOR THE VICE PRESIDENT FOR THURSDAY, JULY 13, 2023
At 1:20 pm ET, the Vice President will depart Washington, DC en route to New York, NY. This departure from Joint Base Andrews will be pooled press.
At 2:15 pm ET, the Vice President will arrive at LaGuardia International Airport. This arrival in New York, NY will be pooled press.
At 5:30 pm ET, the Vice President will deliver remarks at a campaign reception. This reception in New York City, New York will be covered by an editorial pool.
At 7:05 pm ET, the Vice President will depart New York, NY en route to Washington, DC. This departure from LaGuardia International Airport will be pooled press.
At 8:05 pm ET, the Vice President will arrive at Joint Base Andrews. This arrival in Washington, DC will be pooled press.


July 13, 2023 14:15

VP travel pool #2: wheels down
We were wheels down at LaGuardia at 2.03 pm.
VP descended at 2.09 pm in a windy New York. She waved and smiled before entering a waiting vehicle.
Pool is following the motorcade heading to a closed press event the VP is having before the campaign reception later.


July 13, 2023 14:24

VP travel pool #2a
Clarification from the White House - the VP is en route to a closed press meeting, not event.


July 13, 2023 16:08

VP travel pool #3: Closed press event
Pool travelled from LaGuardia to Manhattan and arrived at One World Trade Center at 2.45pm.
VP attended a closed press meeting on a floor in the building. Pool did not see the VP entering or exiting the building and does not have any precise timings on how long the meeting lasted.
Your pooler has pushed hard for more reportable information on the meeting but nothing forthcoming from the White House.
Pool left the building at 3.57 pm and rejoined the motorcade which departed One World Trade Center at 4.05 pm.
We are en route to a residence on the Upper East Side for the fundraiser reception.


July 13, 2023 16:59

VP travel pool #4: DNC event background
Pool arrived at the Upper East Side for the campaign reception around 4.30pm.
Once again, pool did not see the VP enter the building.
Your pooler is told the VP is meeting with the hosts of the private residence ahead of her remarks here later this evening.
I will send along the number of attendees and any other information about the reception as soon as I am able to get it from the DNC.
Some background from the Biden-Harris campaign:
The Vice President's fundraiser in New York City, NY is at the Residence of Charles Myers and is in support of the Biden Victory Fund. 


July 13, 2023 18:20

VP travel pool #5: VP remarks
Pool was escorted up to the private residence shortly after 5pm where the host Charles Myers delivered introductory remarks.
He said it was a "sold out" event, which he said confirmed "what an asset the Vice President really is".
He also gave a shout out to Drew Barrymore, the actor and TV host, who is "probably my only neighbor that will be speaking to me after this" given the intense security arrangements required to hold the event. [Your pooler has confirmed that Barrymore was not in attendance at the event.]
Mr Myers went on to reference his 13-year friendship with the VP and said he was proud to have supported her political career. He added: "I also will say I will be very proud to be the first one to sign up for Harris for President 2028". There were whoops and loud applause from the audience in response.
The VP was introduced at 5.11 pm and emerged from behind a screen which closed off a section of the room.
She joked that the crowd should "fan yourselves, whatever it takes" on what is a very hot and humid day in the city.
There were several rows of people seated and standing in front of the podium from which the VP spoke. Two US flags stood behind her.
There were 43 people in attendance at the event in total, so the room was a little stuffy.
The VP was wearing a light grey suit and dark grey heels with what appeared to be a double pearl necklace.
A full transcript of her remarks will be sent out so I'm just sharing a few observations and highlights. As always, please check quotes against the official transcript.
She appeared to be speaking without reference to her notes for the majority of her remarks.
She opened by thanking those present for their efforts during the 2020 election.
She went on to reflect on the Biden-Harris administration's achievements, and said she had been thinking about the last two and a half years "in the context of before and after".
She began to elaborate, and the audience laughed as she joked that she was testing out her campaign material, saying: "Okay, so I'm starting to work with this, tell me how it sounds".
She rattled off accomplishments including creating manufacturing jobs in the US, lowering unemployment, addressing the climate crisis and capping the cost of insulin, which prompted applause.
But she told the crowd they must be "clear eyed" about the "many, many challenges we must address", referencing the Dobbs decision.
Later, she said: "We rise to these moments of challenge and that's what we will continue to do. So that is why at this, I would say, early stage, we are gearing up. Because we know what we have to do. We know we have to start early... and we know what is at stake."
Pool was ushered out after the conclusion of the VP's remarks at 5.25 pm and the motorcade departed at 5.38 pm. Once again, pool did not see the VP exit the building.
We arrived at LaGuardia around 6pm and boarded AF2. We did not see the VP board. We are wheels up at 6.18 pm.


July 13, 2023 19:18

VP travel pool #6: wheels down
We were wheels down at JBA at 7.04 pm.
The VP disembarked at 7.10 pm.
Your pooler has asked for, but has not been given, the name of the official who was there to greet the VP.
The VP smiled and waved in the direction of the pool as she walked towards Marine Two to return to her residence.



  