
    The President today announced that he will nominate six public members and five Government members of the Board of Directors of the National Consumer Cooperative Bank. They are:
Public members
RONALD GRZYWINSKI, of Chicago, president of the Illinois Neighborhood Development Corp., the bank holding company that owns the South Shore Bank, which operates a strong neighborhood reinvestment program that has been responsible for lending over $17 million to minority-owned businesses, voluntary community organizations, social service agencies, and single and multifamily residences;
JOSEPH L. HANSKNECHT, JR., of Detroit, Mich., director of public affairs of the League Insurance Companies and of the Michigan Credit Union League, active in community development organizations;
FRANCES LEVENSON, of New York City, director of urban housing and vice president of the New York Bank for Savings; for the past 7 years, in charge of the bank's program of sponsoring, financing, and promoting low and moderate-income housing;
REV. ALBERT JOSEPH McKNIGHT, of Lafayette, La., president of the Southern Cooperative Development Fund, a developmental financial institution with assets over $11 million, making loans to emerging cooperatives and community-controlled organizations in the South;
JUAN J. PATLAN, of San Antonio, Tex., executive director of the Mexican American Unity Council, active in civic groups concerned with housing, downtown redevelopment, and immigration and naturalization;
DEREK N. SHEARER, of Santa Monica, Calif., a lecturer at the UCLA Graduate School of Arcbitecture and Urban Planning, an economist and consultant, and an expert in cooperative and community economic development.
Government members
ROGER C. ALTMAN, Assistant Secretary of the Treasury for Domestic Finance;
GENO C. BARONI, Assistant Secretary of Housing and Urban Development for Neighborhoods, Voluntary Associations, and Consumer Protection;
SAM W. BROWN, JR., Director of ACTION; LAWRENCE CONNELL, JR., Administrator of the National Credit Union Administration;
CAROL TUCKER FOREMAN, Assistant Secretary of Agriculture for Food and Consumer Services.
The President will announce nominations for the two remaining Government members of the Board of Directors in the future.
  