
    Federal and State Officials
House Agriculture Committee Chairman Mike Conaway (R-TX): "Our president stood up to a bully and now he's standing up for rural America. This is the right fight to have, but in the meantime, our producers have got to live, while this fight's going on."
Rep. Robert Aderholt (R-AL): "The actions and funding announced demonstrate that the President has not forgotten the American farmer and that agricultural producers will not bear the brunt of unjustified retaliation by foreign governments ... I applaud President Trump for standing-up to China and other foreign government's unfair trade practices. If our markets here are open to their goods then their markets should be open for American agriculture and manufacturing."
Rep. Kevin Cramer (R-ND): "I am thankful our farmers and ranchers are now getting some specifics at my suggestion, but sad China continues to act in bad faith and thereby necessitates these extraordinary measures. At the end of the day we want trade not aid. I hope free fair and reciprocal trade is in our near future and look forward to more details as they roll out."
Rep. Chris Collins (R-NY): "By imposing tariffs on nations like China, President Trump is working to level the playing field between the United States and other countries that have taken advantage of us for far too long. From the start, we were assured that the administration would take appropriate action to protect industries, like our nation's agriculture industry, that may be impacted by the tariffs. Today's announcement is a win for the dairy industry as President Trump continues to put American interests first and fight for fair trade deals."
Secretary of Agriculture Sonny Perdue: "This is a short-term solution to allow President Trump time to work on long-term trade deals to benefit agriculture and the entire U.S. economy. The President promised to have the back of every American farmer and rancher, and he knows the importance of keeping our rural economy strong. Unfortunately, America's hard-working agricultural producers have been treated unfairly by China's illegal trading practices and have taken a disproportionate hit when it comes illegal retaliatory tariffs. USDA will not stand by while our hard-working agricultural producers bear the brunt of unfriendly tariffs enacted by foreign nations. The programs we are announcing today help ensure our nation's agriculture continues to feed the world and innovate to meet the demand."
United States Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer: "President Trump is taking strong action, as he promised, to make sure America's farmers and ranchers are not left to bear the brunt of illegal retaliation by China and other countries. The Trump Administration will continue to defend our economy from unfair trading practices and work to advance free, fair and reciprocal trade relationships."
Alabama Commissioner of Agriculture and Industries John McMillan: "These three programs will allow the administration to continue to work on long-term trade deals. The end goal is to have an even playing field for our country's producers."
Agriculture Associations
American Farm Bureau Federation President Zippy Duvall: "The $12 billion package of agricultural assistance announced today by the administration will provide a welcome measure of temporary relief to our farmers and ranchers who are experiencing the financial effects of the trade war ... We are grateful for the administration's recognition that farmers and ranchers needed positive news now and this will buy us some time."
Alabama Farmers Federation Director of National Legislative Programs and Catfish Division Mitt Walker: "We appreciate President Trump's administration recognizing the impact intense trade negotiations are having on U.S. farmers and providing assistance to weather tough economic times."
American Soybean Association President John Heisdorffer: "U.S. soybean producers want to see President Trump succeed in meeting his trade campaign goals of achieving better trade deals and greater market access. And, we appreciate that he has recognized our loss in exports and lower prices and provided some immediate relief."
National Cotton Council Chairman Ron Craft: "We support the Administration for taking this interim action to help at least partially offset impacts until better trade relationships can be restored and improved ... Our industry thanks Agriculture Secretary Perdue for exercising his authority to provide this much needed relief."
National Milk Producers Federation President and CEO Jim Mulhern: "We appreciate the president following through on his pledge that America's farmers won't bear the brunt of the economic losses generated by the current trade conflicts. Today's announcement reflects requests that our organization has made of USDA to relieve some of the financial pain dairy farmers are feeling due to lost export opportunities. We thank the administration for incorporating our recommendations."
National Pork Producers Council President Jim Heimerl: "President Trump has said he has the back of U.S. farmers and today demonstrated this commitment with an aid package to sustain American agriculture cutoff from critical export markets as his administration works to realign U.S. global trade policy."
National Sorghum Producers Legislative Committee Chairman and Board Director Dan Atkisson: "National Sorghum Producers appreciates the hard work USDA Secretary Sonny Perdue and U.S. officials have done to advocate on behalf of farmers through ongoing trade disputes. We respect the Administration for following through with their promise to stand by U.S. farmers, and we look forward to working with Secretary Perdue in providing much needed funds to sorghum farmers and other producers impacted by tariffs. NSP fully supports fairer and open trade and will continue to work with officials to achieve long-term trade solutions."
Renewable Fuels Association President and CEO Bob Dinneen: "We appreciate the administration's actions to help farmers who are indeed suffering as a result of recent trade disputes. Farmers are the backbone of this country who provide feed, food and fuel to consumers across our nation."
Southwest Council of Agribusiness President Matt Huie: "We commend President Trump and Secretary Perdue for their strong leadership and real demonstration that our nation will stand by her farm and ranch families through hard times as we seek a free, fair, transparent, and rules-based trade environment."
  