
    
  Vice President Biden Has Forcefully Advocated For Special Counsel Investigations In Years Past

Two Days Ago, Senator Dianne Feinstein (D-CA) Claimed Security Leaks Originated From Within The White House's Ranks:
Senator Feinstein: "I Think The White House Has To Understand That Some Of This Is Coming From Their Ranks." "A prominent Democrat is giving the White House heartburn over national security leaks. Sen. Dianne Feinstein, D-Calif., who chairs the Senate Intelligence Committee, told a World Affairs Council forum yesterday, 'I think the White House has to understand that some of this is coming from their ranks.' ... The leaks have included news that the U.S. has launched cyberattacks against Iran's nuclear program and details of an investigation into an al-Qaeda bombing plot." (USA Today, 7/24/12)
Last Month, President Obama And His Senior Aides Flatly Denied The White House Was Behind Any Of The Leaks And Rejected Calls For A Special Counsel:
President Obama "Forcefully Disputed" Allegations That White House Officials Had Anything To Do With The Leaks Of Classified Information. "At the White House on Friday, Obama forcefully disputed charges from some Republican lawmakers that his administration had been complicit in the sensitive information being made public. 'The notion that my White House would purposely release classified national security information is offensive. It's wrong,' Obama said at a morning news conference." (The Washington Post, 6/8/12)
President Obama: "Since I've Been In Office, My Attitude Has Been Zero Tolerance For These Kinds Of Leaks And Speculation." "The president added that there were 'mechanisms in place' to 'root out folks who have leaked.' 'They will suffer consequences,' he said. 'When this information, or reports, whether true or false, surface on the front page of newspapers, that makes the job of folks on the front lines tougher and it makes my job tougher, which is why since I've been in office, my attitude has been zero tolerance for these kinds of leaks and speculation.'" (The Washington Post, 6/8/12)
In June, The Obama White House "Rejected Congressional Calls For A Special Counsel To Investigate" The Security Leaks. "The White House on Thursday rejected congressional calls for a special counsel to investigate a spate of recent national-security leaks described as among the worst lawmakers have ever seen." (Jeremy Herb, "White House Rejects Calls For Special Counsel For National Security Leaks," The Hill, 6/7/12)
Senior Obama Adviser David Axelrod: "I Can't Say That There Weren't Leaks. There Were Obvious Leaks, But They Weren't From The White House." DAVID AXELROD: "George, I think the authors of all of this work have said that the White House was not the source of this information. I can't say that there weren't leaks. There were obvious leaks, but they weren't from the White House. ... The last thing that [President Obama] would countenance or anybody around him would countenance are leaks that would jeopardize the security of Americans on these secret missions, and the success of those missions. So, you know, I think when he said on Friday that he said offended about it, he was speaking from that place." (ABC's "This Week," 6/10/12)
But Vice President Biden Has Previously Been A Forceful Advocate For Appointing Special Counsels — Including In Leak Cases:
In 2003, Senator Biden Called For A Special Counsel To Investigate White House Leak Allegations. "The vow came as numerous Democratic leaders demanded the administration appoint a special counsel to investigate the charges that a CIA operative's name was divulged in an effort to discredit her husband, a prominent critic of Bush's Iraq policy. ... Some congressional Democrats insisted on the need for a special counsel yesterday. In a letter to Ashcroft, Senate Minority Leader Thomas A. Daschle (S.D.) and Sens. Joseph R. Biden Jr. (Del.), Carl M. Levin (Mich.) and John D. Rockefeller IV (W.Va.) requested a special counsel 'because of the obvious and inherent conflicts of interests involved.'" (Mike Allen and Dana Milbank, "Bush Vows Action If Aides Had Role In Leak," The Washington Post, 9/30/03)

"'The White House Has Now Put The Justice Department In The Position Of Having To Determine Not Only What Happened, But Also Whether To Contradict The Publicly Stated Position Of The White House,' [The Senators] Said." (Eric Litchtblau, "More Agents Are Added To Leak Case," The New York Times, 10/10/03)

In 2007, Senator Biden Forcefully Called For Another Special Counsel Investigation. "Sen. Joe Biden issued the following statement: 'Yesterday's action by the Department of Justice calling on the House Intelligence Committee to delay its investigation highlights the need for a Special Counsel to immediately take over the investigation into the destruction of taped interrogations by the CIA. The American people deserve a thorough, unbiased investigation, free of any political influence. The investigation should be conducted by someone who had no involvement in the conduct under investigation." (Sen. Joe Biden, Press Release, 12/16/07)

Biden: "The Easiest, Straightest Thing To Do, Is Take It Out Of The Political Realm, Appoint A Special Prosecutor And Let Them Decide And Call It Where It Is." BIDEN: "One of the issues here, is did the CIA use the waterboarding technique and apparently did. Why did they destroy the tapes? You know, I just think this is getting very convoluted. And I think the easiest, straightest thing to do, is take it out of the political realm, appoint a special prosecutor and let them decide and call it where it is. Is there a criminal violation? If there is, proceed. If not, don't." (ABC News' "This Week," 12/9/07)

  