
    STATEMENT OF ADMINISTRATION POLICY
SENT 7/11/95(Senate)(Dole (R) KS and 29 cosponsors)
The Administration strongly supports the enactment of cost- benefit analysis and risk assessment legislation that would improve the regulatory system. S. 343, however, is not such a bill. Because the cumulative effect of its provisions would burden the regulatory system with additional paperwork, unnecessary costs, significant delay, and excessive litigation, the Secretaries of Labor, Agriculture, Health and Human Services, Housing and Urban Development, Transportation, the Treasury, and the Interior, the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, and the Director of the Office of Management and Budget would recommend that the President veto S. 343 in its present form.
The Administration is particularly concerned that S. 343 could lead to:

Unsound Regulatory Decisions. A regulatory reform bill should promote the development of more sensible regulations. S. 343, however, could require agencies to issue unsound regulations. It would force agencies to choose the least costly regulatory alternative available to them, even if spending a few more dollars would yield substantially greater benefits. It would also prevent agencies responsible for protecting public health, safety, or the environment from issuing regulations unless they can demonstrate a "significant" reduction in risk — even if the benefits from a small reduction in risk exceed the costs. Both of these features would hinder, rather than promote, the development of cost-beneficial, cost-effective regulations. In addition, S. 343 could be construed to constitute a supermandate that would override existing statutory requirements indiscriminately.  
Excessive Litigation. While it is appropriate for courts to review final agency action to determine whether, taken as a whole, the action meets the requisite standards, S. 343 would increase opportunities for lawsuits and allow challenges to agency action that is not yet final. Further, by needlessly altering numerous features of the Administrative Procedure Act, S. 343 could engender a substantial number of lawsuits concerning the meaning of changes to well-established law.   
A Backdoor Regulatory Moratorium. S. 343 would take effect immediately upon enactment, consequently leading to an unnecessary and time-consuming disruption of the rulemaking process. It would require proposed regulations that have already been through notice and comment, and are based on cost-benefit analysis, to begin the process all over again because of an agency's unknowing failure to follow one of the many new procedures in the bill.   
The Unproductive Use of Analytic Resources in Issuing New Rules. Since the mid-1970s, Presidents of both parties have selected $100 million as the line of demarcation between that which warrants full-blown regulatory analysis and that which does not. Because cost-benefit and risk analyses can be costly and time- consuming, the Administration believes that $100 million continues to be the appropriate threshold. S. 343, however, has as its threshold $50 million —a decision that would require agencies to use their resources unproductively and that therefore cannot itself withstand cost-benefit scrutiny.   
Agencies Overwhelmed with Petitions and the Lapsing of Effective Regulations. S. 343 creates numerous, often highly-convoluted petition processes that, taken together, could create opportunities for special interests to tie up an agency in additional paperwork and, in the process, waste valuable resources. Several of these processes allow agencies inadequate time to conduct the required analyses and prepare the required responses to petitions; contain inadequate standards against which the adequacy of petitions can be judged; contain inadequate limitations on who may properly file petitions; and contain inadequate safeguards against an agency becoming overwhelmed by large numbers of petitions. These problems are exacerbated by provisions providing for the sunsetting of regulations according to arbitrary deadlines, which could cause effective regulations to lapse without going through the notice and comment process.   
Inappropriate Use of Risk Assessment and Peer Review, S. 343's risk assessment and peer review provisions are overly broad in scope and would introduce unnecessary delays into the regulatory process. They would inappropriately subject all health, safety, and environmental regulations to risk assessment and peer review, regardless of Whether such regulations are designed to reduce risk or whether a risk assessment and a peer review would, from a scientific perspective, be useful or appropriate.   
Slowed Environmental Cleanups. S. 343 could needlessly slow ongoing and planned environmental cleanup activities, including those at military installations necessary to make the installations being made available for productive non-military use. It would also invite attempts to renegotiate cleanup agreements, thereby hampering enforcement efforts and increasing public and private transaction costs.   
A Less Accountable and Less Transparent Regulatory Process. Any regulatory reform bill should bring "sunshine" to the regulatory review process. Executive Order No. 12866, "Regulatory Planning and Review," provides both for centralized Executive branch review of proposed regulations and for the disclosure of communications concerning pending rulemakings between persons outside the Executive branch and centralized reviewers. S. 343, however, contains no such sunshine provision and could consequently remove accountability and transparency from the regulatory process.   
An Unduly Lengthy Congressional Layover. S. 343 includes a provision for a congressional layover of 60 days that goes beyond the provisions of S. 219, which provided for a 45-day layover. S. 219 passed the Senate by a vote of 100-0, with Administration support.   
Unrealistic. Unmanageable Studies. S. 343 would require a comprehensive study of and report on all risks to health, safety, and the environment addressed by all federal agencies. It would also require the President to produce annually a highly detailed estimate of and report on the costs, benefits, and effects of virtually all existing regulatory programs. Such studies would not only be unmanageable to conduct and costly to produce, but would require scientific and economic analytical techniques that go beyond the state of the art.   
Unnecessarily Hindered Enforcement of Regulations and Out of Court Settlements. S. 343 could create disincentives for regulated entities to bring potentially conflicting regulations to the appropriate agencies' attention. It could also make it unnecessarily difficult for agencies to settle litigation out of court.   
Significant Changes in Substantive Law Without Proper Consideration. S. 343 goes beyond attempting to reform the regulatory process by making changes in substantive law — altering, for example, the Delaney Clause and the Community Right-to-Know Act. Whether such changes are appropriate should be decided only after full hearings in the committees of jurisdiction and full debate on the merits. 

The Administration is as concerned with the cumulative effect of s. 343 as with its particular features. The Administration remains committed, however, to improving the regulatory process, both administratively and through legislation.
  