
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate nine individuals and designate two individuals to serve in his administration:
The President intends to nominate Karen Alderman Harbert, of the District of Columbia, to be an Assistant Secretary of Energy (International Affairs and Domestic Policy). Ms. Harbert currently serves as Deputy Assistant Administrator for Latin America and the Caribbean at the United States Agency for International Development. She previously served as Manager of Marketing and Communications for K&M Group of Companies, a developer and manager of international infrastructure projects. Prior to this position, Ms. Harbert served as Director of Latin America and Caribbean Programs at the International Republican Institute. She earned her bachelor's degree from Rice University.
The President intends to nominate Gregory Franklin Jenner, of Oregon, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Treasury (Tax Policy). Mr. Jenner currently serves as Deputy Assistant Secretary (Tax Policy) at the Department of the Treasury. He previously was a partner in the Washington, D.C. law office of Venable, Baetjer, Howard and Civiletti, LLP. Earlier in his career, Mr. Jenner served as Tax Counsel for the U.S. Senate Committee on Finance. He received his bachelor's degree from Portland State University and his J.D. from New York University School of Law.
The President intends to designate Sharon Brown-Hruska of Virginia, to be Acting Chairman of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission.
The President intends to nominate Sharon Brown-Hruska, of Virginia, to be a Commissioner of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission for a five-year term expiring April 13, 2009. Dr. Brown-Hruska currently serves as a Commissioner of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission. She previously served as an Assistant Professor at George Mason University. She also taught at Tulane University and Virginia Tech University. Earlier in her career, Dr. Brown-Hruska served in the Commodity Futures Trading Commission's Division of Economic Analysis. She earned her bachelor's degree, her master's degree, and her Ph.D. from Virginia Tech University.
The President intends to nominate Hector E. Morales, of Texas, to be United States Executive Director of the Inter-American Development Bank for a three-year term. Mr. Morales currently serves as Alternate Executive Director of the Inter-American Development Bank. He previously served as Founder and Principal of Dreadnought Ventures in Washington, D.C. In addition, Mr. Morales served as Senior Vice President of Marketing and Development for the Viamericas Corporation. Earlier in his career, he was President and General Manager of Reliant Energy Argentina S.A. Mr. Morales earned his bachelor's degree from Columbia College and his law degree from the University of Texas.
The President intends to nominate Anna Escobedo Cabral, of Virginia, to be Treasurer of the United States. Ms. Cabral currently serves as Director of the Smithsonian Center for Latino Initiatives. She previously served as President and CEO of the Hispanic Association on Corporate Responsibility. Earlier in her career, she worked on the U.S. Senate Committee on the Judiciary as Deputy Staff Director. Ms. Cabral earned her bachelor's degree from University of California, Davis and her master's degree from Harvard University.
The President intends to designate John S. Shaw, of the District of Columbia, to be Acting Assistant Secretary of Energy (Environment, Safety and Health).
The President intends to nominate John S. Shaw, of the District of Columbia, to be an Assistant Secretary of Energy (Environment, Safety and Health). Mr. Shaw currently serves as Deputy Chief of Staff at the Department of Energy. He previously worked as an attorney for Patton Boggs, LLP in Washington, D.C. Earlier in his career, Mr. Shaw served as a Majority Counsel for the U.S. Senate Committee on Governmental Affairs. He earned his bachelor's degree from Syracuse University and his J.D. from Catholic University of America Law School.
The President intends to nominate James S. Simpson, of New York, to be a Member of the Advisory Board of the Saint Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation.
The President intends to nominate Jane Dee Hull, of Arizona, to be a United States Representative to the Fifty-ninth Session of the General Assembly of the United Nations.
The President intends to nominate Yousif B. Ghafari, of Michigan, to be a United States Alternate Representative to the Fifty-ninth Session of the General Assembly of the United Nations.
  