
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate five individuals to serve in his Administration:
The President intends to nominate Jennifer L. Dorn, of Nebraska, to be United States Alternate Executive Director of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, for a two-year term. Ms. Dorn currently serves as Administrator of the Federal Transit Administration. She previously served as Senior Vice President of the American National Red Cross. Prior to that, Ms. Dorn was Assistant Secretary for Policy at the Department of Labor. Earlier in her career, she was Associate Deputy Secretary of Transportation at the Department of Transportation. Ms. Dorn received her bachelor's degree from Oregon State University and her master's degree from the University of Connecticut.
The President intends to nominate C. Boyden Gray, of the District of Columbia, to be the Representative of the United States of America to the European Union, with the Rank and Status of Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary. Mr. Gray is currently a Partner with Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale and Dorr LLP in Washington, D.C. He previously served as White House Counsel. Prior to that, Mr. Gray served as Legal Counsel to the Vice President. Earlier in his career, he clerked for the Honorable Earl Warren, Chief Justice, United States Supreme Court. Mr. Gray received his bachelor's degree from Harvard University and his J.D. from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill.
The President intends to nominate Richard H. Jones, of Nebraska, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the State of Israel. A career member of the Senior Foreign Service, Ambassador Jones currently serves as Senior Advisor and Policy Coordinator on Iraq to the Secretary of State. He previously served as Deputy Administrator for the Coalition Provisional Authority in Baghdad, Iraq. Prior to these assignments, he served as U.S. Ambassador to the State of Kuwait, the Republic of Kazakhstan, and the Republic of Lebanon. Ambassador Jones received his bachelor's degree from Harvey Mudd College. He later received his master's degree and PhD from the University of Wisconsin at Madison.
The President intends to nominate Francis J. Ricciardone, Jr., of New Hampshire, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Arab Republic of Egypt. A career member of the Senior Foreign Service, he has recently concluded his service as Chief of Mission in the Philippines and the Republic of Palau. From January until June 2004, Ambassador Ricciardone served as Special Coordinator for the Transition of Iraq, where he helped establish the U.S. Embassy in Baghdad, Iraq. He previously served as Director of the Task Force on the Global War on Terrorism at the Department of State. Ambassador Ricciardone received his bachelor's degree from Dartmouth College.
The President intends to nominate Darlene F. Williams, of Texas, to be an Assistant Secretary of Housing and Urban Development (Policy Development and Research). Ms. Williams currently serves as General Deputy Assistant Secretary at the Department of Housing and Urban Development. She previously served as Corporate Policy Manager of TXU, an energy company based in Dallas, Texas. Earlier in her career, Ms. Williams served as Manager of Marketing, Planning and Research for Ryder Systems, Inc. in Miami, Florida. She received her bachelor's degree from Howard University. Ms. Williams also received her master's degree and PhD from Stanford University. She went on to earn a second master's degree from the University of Chicago.
  