
    WASHINGTON, DC – Today, President Obama nominated Danya Ariel Dayson, Peter Arno Krauthamer, and John Francis McCabe, Jr. to serve as Associate Justices of the Superior Court of the District of Columbia.
"Throughout their careers these individuals have shown a commitment to justice and public service," said President Obama. "I am proud to nominate them to the Superior Court of the District of Columbia."
Danya Ariel Dayson: Nominee for the Superior Court of the District of Columbia 
Danya Ariel Dayson is an attorney with the firm of O'Toole, Rothwell, Nassau & Steinbach where her practice includes litigation in both state and federal courts. She has represented criminal defendants in a wide range of cases ranging from drug offenses to capital cases. Ms. Dayson serves on the Domestic Relations and Paternity and Support Subcommittee of the Family Court Implementation Committee and volunteers as a trainer and worker at the Family Court Self Help Center at the Superior Court of the District of Columbia. She is a member of the Steering Committee for the Family Court Section of the District of Columbia Bar Association. Ms. Dayson serves as an Adjunct Professor at George Washington University School of Law. She received two Bachelor of Arts degrees in Political Science and Russian and Eastern European Studies from Appalachian State University, and earned her law degree from Georgetown University Law Center. Following law school, Ms. Dayson served as a law clerk for the Honorable Robert E. Morin of the Superior Court of the District of Columbia.
Peter Arno Krauthamer: Nominee for the Superior Court of the District of Columbia
Peter Arno Krauthamer is the Deputy Director for the Public Defender Service for the District of Columbia where he manages a staff of approximately 220, including 110 attorneys. He is also responsible for establishing and implementing policies, participating in the formulation and execution of the budget, and providing advice to the Director on various legislative initiatives. Mr. Krauthamer began his career as a staff attorney at the Public Defender Service in 1983. He was promoted to Chief of the Trial Division in 1990 and Training Director in 1992. From 1994 to 1995, Mr. Krauthamer was a staff attorney with the Federal Public Defender for the District of Columbia. In 1995, he joined the faculty of the Howard University School of Law as an Assistant Professor and Clinical Supervising Attorney and remained in those positions until 2000. From 2000 to 2004, he served as the Deputy Director for the District of Columbia Pretrial Services Agency. Mr. Krauthamer received a Bachelor of Arts degree from Brandeis University and earned his law degree from Boston University School of Law.
John Francis McCabe, Jr.: Nominee for the Superior Court of the District of Columbia
John Francis McCabe, Jr., is a Magistrate Judge on the Superior Court of the District of Columbia. Since his appointment in 2002, he has served in the Family Court and has presided in the Criminal Division in misdemeanor trials, arraignments, and preliminary hearings. Since 2010, he has been the Deputy Presiding Magistrate Judge and the Alternative Chairperson of the District of Columbia Commission on Mental Health. He has also served as co?chair of the Family Court Training Committee. From 1998 to 2002, Judge McCabe worked as an Assistant United States Attorney in the District of Columbia, and from 1990 to 1998, he was Assistant Corporation Counsel with the Office of the Corporation Counsel (now the Office of Attorney General for the District of Columbia). From 1989 to 1990, Judge McCabe was a staff attorney with the Legal Aid Society of the District of Columbia and from 1986 to 1989, he was an associate at Peterson Young Self & Asselin, in Atlanta, Georgia. Judge McCabe has a Bachelor of Arts degree in Economics from Duke University and earned his law degree from Tulane University Law School.
  