
    [APP Note:  As with all "Campaign Documents" archived by the APP, the content of this document was prepared by the presidential campaign. This is not the analysis or work product of the American Presidency Project.  We do not vouch for the accuracy of ANY campaign document published by any presidential campaign. They are provided as part of the historical record.]
Donald J. Trump for President hosted 'Faith in America' featuring Trump 2020 Senior Advisor for Strategic Communications Mercedes Schlapp, Co-Chair of Catholics for Trump Matt Schlapp, Representative Gus Bilirakis (FL-12), Chairman of Greek Voices for Trump Christos Marafatsos, National Director of Priests for Life Father Frank Pavone, and Catholics for Trump Advisory Board Member and President of Phyllis Schlafly Eagles Ed Martin.
The participants discussed Joe Biden and the radical left's assault on people of faith in the United States and around the world. They condemned candidate Biden for turning his back on the values of the Catholic Church by endorsing abortion up until birth, refusing to condemn nationwide attacks on Catholic monuments, and abandoning persecuted Christians in the Middle East. Only President Trump has consistently defended religious freedom and Christian values while in office, and the participants encouraged all viewers to work to re-elect the President in November.

CLICK HERE TO WATCH
"The radical left is no longer hiding their absolute contempt for Americans of faith, and if Joe Biden wins in November he will guarantee the nationwide expansion of anti-Christian bigotry," said Mercedes Schlapp, Trump 2020 Senior Advisor for Strategic Communications. "It is vital that we re-elect President Trump to protect our religious freedoms and stand up to the left's assault on the Christian faith."
"The radical left is vandalizing, tearing down statues, and destroying our churches as they push for their Marxist revolution, and Joe Biden refuses to stand up to them," said Matt Schlapp, Co-Chair of Catholics for Trump. " Only President Trump is a staunch supporter of our nation and its history of fostering religious faith, and we must re-elect him this November to defend the American way of life."
"Joe Biden and the far-left have taken a firm stand against the Judeo-Christian values upon which our country was founded, and Americans of faith will not stand for it," said Representative Gus Bilirakis, (FL-12). "This election is the choice of our lifetime, because if the radical left takes over, Christians will no longer be protected from the socialist mob."
"From day one, President Trump has led the way in protecting religious freedom here in America and abroad, standing up to the radical left as they attack our beliefs." said Christos Marafatsos, Co-Chair of Greek Voices for Trump. "President Trump was first to defend Hagia Sophia, and the persecuted Christians in the Middle East, while Joe Biden and his advisors stood silently on the sidelines until it was too late - Biden's refusal to stand up to his party's socialist base will result in an unrecognizable America."
"Joe Biden acknowledges the fact that children in the womb are living, breathing humans and still supports killing them. He tramples on the Church's teachings and aims to undermine our beliefs. Americans of the Christian faith cannot afford to have Joe Biden hold the highest office in the land," said Father Frank Pavone, National Director of Priests for Life. "Catholics need four more years of President Trump's commitment to defend the lives of the unborn and call out the left's bigotry towards Christians."
"Joe Biden claims to be of Catholic faith yet undermines the beliefs of Christians at every turn. He aggressively supports abortion rights but remains silent as rioters maliciously burn our places of worship," said Ed Martin, Catholics for Trump Advisory Board Member and President of Phyllis Schlafly Eagles. "President Trump is a strong defender of Catholicism and will always stand up to the radical left as they attack our faith and fundamental rights."
  