
    Mitt Romney today announced his Polish Americans for Romney coalition.
"I am honored to have such strong support from the Polish-American community," said Mitt Romney.
"On my recent trip abroad, I visited the cities of Gdansk and Warsaw, where I got the chance to see the legacy of the country's long and sometimes lonely struggle against totalitarianism. Polish Americans share the love of individual liberty that makes our country exceptional, prosperous, and free. This community has made tremendous contributions to America spanning business, science, and more. I'm proud to have a strong showing from their ranks standing with my campaign to turn around our economy and strengthen our nation as the land of opportunity. This election is about nothing less than reinvigorating the qualities that have attracted so many Polish Americans and people of all backgrounds to come to America."
"For Poland and Polish-Americans, Mitt Romney is the man of the hour," said former Minnesota Governor Tim Pawlenty. "Polish Americans and all Americans want to live in a country that is free and prosperous. Barack Obama has taken America in the wrong direction at high speed. Mitt Romney will get us back on track.  He knows America cannot remain strong without a strong and growing economy. Governor Romney has also taken a keen interest in Poland. He just visited there, making stops in Warsaw and Gdansk after being in Jerusalem and London. He understands Poland is a key ally and, like America, cherishes freedom.  Governor Romney understands to his core the importance of preserving and protecting freedom.  Polish Americans have every reason to get behind Mitt Romney."
"As a Polish American, I am proud to support Mitt Romney's campaign for the presidency," said Congressman Dan Benishek. "Like many from my community, my family came to America in search of a better life and the freedom to pursue their dreams. Unfortunately, under President Obama, this country is headed down the wrong course, one that is less free and less prosperous. I'm confident that this is a course that Mitt Romney can reverse. His recent trip to Poland is a testament to his appreciation for a quest for individual liberty that may have a storied history in Poland, but is universal amongst mankind. I encourage all Polish-Americans to join me in helping his campaign to ensure that America's future remains bright."
Honorary Chairmen
Tim Pawlenty, Former Governor Of Minnesota
Senator Lisa Murkowski
Congressman Dan Benishek
National Advisory Board
Former Majority Leader Rocky Raczkowski, Michigan State House
Stanley Grot
Ambassador Aldona Wos
Ian Brzezinski
Lt. General Ed Rowny, Retired
State Senator George Maziarz, New York
Steve Biegun
Blaise Misztal
  