
    
  Cruz Pulls No Punches in Memoir Highlighting Truth-Tellers, His Time in Congress, and Behind the Scenes in the Supreme Court

HOUSTON, Texas — The new book by U.S. Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas, "A Time for Truth,' is making headlines across the country with a dramatic and candid look at Cruz's life, those he holds up as truth-tellers, and some behind-the-scenes stories that are sure to upset the Establishment in Washington:
Texas Tribune: 7 Things We Learned From Ted Cruz's New Book
U.S. Sen. Ted Cruz promises to take readers behind the scenes in Washington with his new memoir, A Time for Truth. And what he writes is not always flattering – even about himself....In an interview with The Texas Tribune, Cruz said he wrote the book during "lot of late nights, a lot of weekends, a lot of hours on the road. ... A significant chunk of the last Christmas vacation, while my girls were opening presents under the tree, I was back in the home office pounding away at the keyboard." Here are seven new insights Cruz offers in the book.
Roll Call: 'A Time For Truth' Pulls No Punches
As to be expected from a senator who has openly sought to undermine GOP leadership, "A Time for Truth" does not pull punches, leading off with anecdotes about one of the more bizarre sequences of events in recent Senate history: the day the clerk's microphone was turned off for a crucial vote on raising the debt limit...
"When I made my case to my colleagues, they looked at me like I was a fool. I heard more than one variation of, 'That's what you say to folks back home. You don't actually do it.' They were convinced they had a brilliant maneuver to raise the debt ceiling without any fingerprints," Cruz writes. "And here was a freshman senator with the temerity to screw it all up."
Daily Caller: Ted Cruz: 'Voters Would Be Astonished' To Know What GOP Senators Say And Do In Private
"During my time in the Senate, I've been amazed how many senators pose one way in public—as fiscal conservatives or staunch Tea Party supporters, for example—and then in private do little or nothing to advance those principles," Cruz writes in his new book, "A Time For Truth." "Indeed, if transcripts of our Senate lunches were released to the public, I think many voters would be astonished," the Republican presidential candidate writes.
Texas Tribune: Cruz: Far More Important to Stick to our Principles
In adolescence, young adulthood, and now as a junior senator running for the presidency, he has rubbed people the wrong way – and he is self-aware about it. "When I was in junior high and a geek, I thought that popularity was the Holy Grail," Cruz said in a New York City interview with The Texas Tribune about his new memoir, A Time for Truth. "And in high school, where I achieved some modicum of popularity, I discovered it wasn't all that," he added. "That it was far more important to stick to your principles and maintain your integrity."
Dallas Morning News: Cruz Touts Aspirations in New Book
"I've endeavored to be candid and straightforward about personal victories and personal failures," Cruz said Monday from New York at the outset of a two-week book tour....Long passages defending his role in the 2013 government shutdown or expressing his antipathy toward President Barack Obama, Obamacare, Iran, Russia and squishy moderates, among others, will sound familiar to anyone who has heard him speak. But there are also surprises. As a clerk to Chief Justice William Rehnquist, Cruz once watched online pornography with his boss and Justice Sandra Day O'Connor. As a policy adviser to George W. Bush's 2000 presidential campaign, he spent the afternoon of Election Day bowling with actress Bo Derek.
MSNBC: In Book, Cruz Battles Senate Colleagues
"Sometimes, people ask me, 'When you have a room full of Republican senators yelling at you to back down and compromise your principles, why don't you just give in? The answer is simple. I just remember all those men and women who pleaded with me, 'Don't become one of them,'" he says.
  