
    CHICAGO, IL -- Democratic Presidential candidate Governor Bill Richardson's campaign continued to pick up steam yesterday as he announced the endorsement of several Illinois Latino community leaders.
"I want to be President for every person in this country, but I am an American who is proud of my Hispanic heritage," said Governor Richardson. "I am honored to have the support of these Illinois Latino leaders."
Yesterday's endorsers have formed a group, Illinois Latinos for Richardson, and they will aggressively reach out to Latinos across the state to join Governor Richardson's campaign for a stronger America.
"Governor Richardson has the right ideas and the right experience to make this country better for Latinos and all Americans," said Omar Lopez, the chair of the group. "I am proud to be a part of his team and I promise that we will work day and night to get him elected."
Yesterday's endorsement is just another sign that Governor Richardson's positive campaign is catching on across the country.
"We will not cede any state or region to any other candidate. Our campaign is going to be competitive everywhere," said campaign manager Dave Contarino.
Below is a partial list of the Illinois Latino community leaders who endorsed Governor Richardson yesterday:
Mike Fourcher, Chair, Illinois for Richardson
Omar N. Lopez, Chair, Illinois Latinos for Richardson, Director - CALOR, Community Organization
Carlos Arango, ED Casa Aztlán Organization
Roberto Armendariz, Soccer Promoter
Roberto Garza, Businessman
Guillermo Gomez, Mexica Political Organization
José Gutiérrrez, Owner Paleterias Poncho
Deborah Lopez, Political Consultant -Strategic Alliance International
Efraim López-Zacarías, Owner - DeportivoUSA/Voces Migrantes
Obed López-Zacarías, Citizens Health Organization
Juan A. Mora, Opinion leader/Columnist
Cuahutemoc Morfín, Community leader and former candidate for alderman
Jorge Mújica, Syndicated Columnist
Frank Navarro, United Soccer Association
Pedro Ochoa, President - Liga Mexicana de Futbol
Art Perez, Community activist
Carlos Pérez, Editor - Mayan Calendar News
Roberto Ramirez, CEO Universal Purpose Group
Angel S. del Rivero, Business Agent - Operating Engineers - Local 150
Raul Sandoval, World Youth Soccer League
  