
    The Hill Headline: "Romney Says Israel, US 'Bound Together,' In Jerusalem Speech" (The Hill, 7/29/12)


"Mitt Romney, During A Speech In Jerusalem, Pledged Unflinching U.S. Support For Israel As President, Saying The Two Allied Nations Are 'Bound Together' And Determined To Prevent A Nuclear-Armed Iran." (Russell Berman, "Romney Says Israel, US 'Bound Together,' In Jerusalem Speech," The Hill, 7/29/12)


Reuters Headline: "Romney Talks Tough On Iran During Visit To Israel" (Reuters, 7/29/12)


"In A Foreign Policy Speech In Jerusalem, Romney Voiced Strong Support For The Alliance Between The United States And Israel And Seemed To Suggest That President Barack Obama Had Let The Relationship Flounder." (Steve Holland, "Romney Talks Tough On Iran During Visit To Israel,  Reuters, 7/29/12)


The Washington Post Headline: "Romney In Israel: 'Any And All Measures' Should Be Used To Dissuade Iran" (The Washington Post, 7/29/12)


"Mitt Romney Stepped Forcefully Into A Diplomatic Stalemate Here Sunday By Calling On The United States And Israel To Use "Any And All Measures" To Lead The Effort To Prevent Iran From Developing Nuclear Weapons." (Phillip Rucker and Joel Greenberg, "Romney In Israel: 'Any And All Measures' Should Be Used To Dissuade Iran," The Washington Post, 7/29/12)


Politico Headline: "Mitt Romney: No More 'Diplomatic Distance' From Israel" (Politico, 7/29/12)


Mitt Romney Promised He Would "Be A More Steadfast Ally To Israel Than President Barack Obama." "Taking his campaign to the Holy Land, Mitt Romney Sunday made the case to Israelis and Jewish voters in America that he would take a harder line with Iran and be a more steadfast ally to Israel than President Barack Obama." (Jonathan Martin, "Mitt Romney: No More 'Diplomatic Distance' From Israel," Politico, 7/29/12)


The Wall Street Journal Headline: "Romney Talks Tough" (The Wall Street Journal, 7/29/12)


Mitt Romney Pledged "A Tougher Approach To Iran's Nuclear Ambition" And Promised To Stand Behind Israel's Right To Defend Itself. "Presidential hopeful Mitt Romney signaled a tougher approach to Iran's nuclear ambitions, telling Israelis on Sunday that 'no option should be excluded,' including the use of military force. Keeping Iran from obtaining nuclear weapons should be America's 'highest national security priority,' Mr. Romney said in a speech set against the backdrop of Jerusalem's Old City. 'We recognize Israel's right to defend itself, and that it is right for America to stand with you.'" (Sara Murray, "Romney Talks Tough," The Wall Street Journal, 7/29/12)


Mitt Romney "Drew A Standing Ovation" As He "Referred Pointedly To Jerusalem As 'The Capital Of Israel.'" "He also referred pointedly to Jerusalem as 'the capital of Israel,' something Obama administration officials are loath to do, because Palestinians also imagine the city as the future capital of their hoped-for state. The line drew a standing ovation from some in the crowd and, later, an echo from Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, who underscored, 'Jerusalem will always be the capital of Israel.'" (Jodi Rudoren and Ashley Parker, "Romney Backs Israeli Stance On Threat Of Nuclear Iran," The New York Times, 7/29/12)
"Mr. Netanyahu, Whose Relationship With Mr. Obama Has Been Rocky, Was Generous In His Praise Of Mr. Romney."  "Mr. Netanyahu, whose relationship with Mr. Obama has been rocky, was generous in his praise of Mr. Romney. 'Mitt, I couldn't agree with you more, and I think it's important to do everything in our power to prevent the ayatollahs from possessing the capability' to develop a nuclear weapon, the prime minister said earlier in the day. 'We have to be honest and say that all the sanctions and diplomacy so far have not set back the Iranian program by one iota.'" (Jodi Rudoren and Ashley Parker, "Romney Backs Israeli Stance On Threat Of Nuclear Iran," The New York Times, 7/29/12)
  