
    The following list does not include promotions of members of the Uniformed Services, nominations to the Service Academies, or nominations of Foreign Service officers.
Submitted July 7
Carolyn H. Becraft, of Virginia, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Navy, vice Bernard Daniel Rostker.
Ruby Butler DeMesme, of Virginia, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Air Force, vice Rodney A. Coleman, resigned.
Bert T. Edwards, of Maryland, to be Chief Financial Officer, Department of State, vice Richard L. Greene, resigned.
Patrick T. Henry, of Virginia, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Army, vice Sara E. Lister, resigned.
Joseph H. Melrose, Jr., of Pennsylvania, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Sierra Leone.
John Shattuck, of Massachusetts, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Czech Republic.
David G. Carpenter, of Virginia, to be an Assistant Secretary of State, vice Eric James Boswell, resigned.
David G. Carpenter, of Virginia, to be Director of the Office of Foreign Missions, and to have the rank of Ambassador during his tenure of service, vice Eric James Boswell.
Robert Patrick Finn, of New York, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Tajikistan.
Richard Henry Jones, of Nebraska, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Charles F. Kartman, of Virginia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, for the rank of Ambassador during his tenure of service as Special Envoy for the Korean Peace Talks.
Kathryn Dee Robinson, of Tennessee, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Ghana.
Submitted July 9
Simon Ferro, of Florida, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Panama.
D. Bambi Kraus, of the District of Columbia, to be a member of the board of Trustees of the Institute of American Indian and Alaska Native Culture and Arts Development for a term expiring May 19, 2004, vice Marion G. Chambers.
William B. Milam, of California, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Islamic Republic of Pakistan.
Withdrawn July 9
Carlos Pascual, of the District of Columbia, to be an Assistant Administrator of the Agency for International Development, vice Thomas A. Dine, resigned, which was sent to the Senate on June 11, 1998.
Submitted July 10
William B. Traxler, Jr., of South Carolina, to be United States Circuit Judge for the Fourth Circuit, vice Donald Stuart Russell, deceased.
Mary Beth West, of the District of Columbia, a career member of the Senior Executive Service, for the rank of Ambassador during her tenure of service as Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for Oceans, Fisheries, and Space.
Withdrawn July 10
Mary Beth West, of the District of Columbia, a career member of the Senior Executive Service, for the rank of Ambassador during her tenure of service as Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for Oceans and Space, which was sent to the Senate on February 24, 1998.
  