
    WASHINGTON, DC – Today, President Barack Obama announced his intent to nominate Dr. Kathryn M. Dominguez to serve on the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System:
•      Kathryn M. Dominguez – Governor, Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
President Obama said, "Dr. Dominguez has the proven experience, judgment, and deep knowledge of the financial system, monetary policy, and international capital markets to serve at the Federal Reserve during this important time for our economy. She brings decades of leadership and expertise from various roles, particularly from her years as a leading economist and academic. I am grateful she has chosen to take on this important role, and I look forward to working with her."
President Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individual today:
Dr. Kathryn M. Dominguez, Nominee for Governor, Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
Dr. Kathryn M. Dominguez is a Professor of Public Policy and Economics in the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy and the Department of Economics at the University of Michigan, positions she has held since 2006. Dr. Dominguez has held various academic positions at the University of Michigan since 1997. Since 2000, she has also served as a Research Associate of the National Bureau of Economic Research. During this time, Dr. Dominguez also served as a Visiting Professor of Public Policy at the Goldman School of Public Policy at the University of California, Berkeley from 2008 to 2009 and as an Academic Visitor at The London School of Economics and Political Science from 2003 to 2004. From 1987 to 1997, Dr. Dominguez was on the faculty of the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University, and she served as a Visiting Assistant Professor in the Department of Economics at Princeton University from 1990 to 1991. Dr. Dominguez was a Dissertation Scholar in the International Finance Division for the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System from 1985 to 1986. In 1984, she was a member of the research staff of the Congressional Budget Office's Fiscal Analysis Division. Dr. Dominguez served on the Academic Advisory Panels for the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago in 2013 and the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland in 2007, and was a Visiting Scholar at the Federal Reserve Board of Governors in December 2002. She was a research consultant for the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund, and the Bank for International Settlements. Dr. Dominguez received an A.B. from Vassar College and a Ph.D. in Economics from Yale University.
  