
    Mr. Trump spoke today on the need to serve and protect those who have served and protected us - our police, law enforcement and militarypersonnel.
Excerpts from the speech:
"We are going to reform our visa programs to ensure American Veterans are in the front, not back, of the line."
"Veterans should come first in the county they fought to protect, and under a Trump Administration they will."
"Hillary Clinton is the Secretary of the Status Quo"
"Hillary Clinton's America is a country where the elite get one standard of treatment and everybody else gets second-class treatment."
"The decades of decay, division and decline will come to an end. The years of American Greatness will return."
"We are going to fight for our military and our law enforcement personnel the same way they have fought for us. We will be a safe, strong, and proud country once again."

In addition, he laid out a bold ten point plan for Veterans Reform:
Mr. Trump's Ten Point Plan To Reform The Department Of Veterans Affairs
1. Mr. Trump will appoint a VA Secretary whose sole purpose will be to serve veterans. The Obama Administration has continually placed D.C. bureaucrats' needsabove those of veterans, this will not happen under a Trump Administration.
2. Mr. Trump will use the powers of the presidency to remove and discipline the federal employees and managers who have violated the public's trust and failedto carry out the duties on behalf of our veterans.
3. Mr. Trump will ask that Congress pass legislation that empowers the Secretary of the VA to discipline or terminate any employee who has jeopardized thehealth, safety or well-being of a veteran.
4. Mr. Trump will create a commission to investigate all the fraud, cover-ups, and wrong-doing that has taken place in the VA, and present these findings toCongress for to spur legislative reform.
5. Mr. Trump will protect and promote honest employees at the VA who highlight wrongdoing, and he will guarantee their jobs will be protected.
6. Mr. Trump will create a private White House hotline, which will be active 24 hours a day answered by a real person. It will be devoted to answeringveteran's complaints of wrongdoing at the VA and ensure no complaints fall through the cracks. 
7. Mr. Trump will stop giving bonuses to any VA employees who are wasting money, and start rewarding employees who seek to improve the VA's service, cutwaste, and save lives.
8. Mr. Trump will reform the visa system to ensure veterans are at the front of the line for health services, not the back.
9. Mr. Trump will increase the number of mental health care professionals, and allow veteran's to be able to seek mental health care outside of the VA.
10.Mr. Trump will ensure every veteran has the choice to seek care at the VA or at a private service provider of their own choice. Under a TrumpAdministration, no veteran will die waiting for service. These days are over starting January 2017.
  