
    The Clinton Campaign announced today the endorsement of California senior Senator Dianne Feinstein, demonstrating Hillary's growing support in the Golden State.
"This is a very special moment for me because I have the opportunity to endorse the campaign of a U.S. Senator who I believe will be the first female President of the United States," Senator Feinstein said. "Hillary Clinton, I believe, has the experience, the heart, and the strength to be a great American President. There has been no election for President where change is as defined and necessary as this one. The question is who is best equipped to lead that change. I believe it is Hillary."
As California's senior Senator, Dianne Feinstein has built a reputation as an independent voice, working with both Democrats and Republicans to find common-sense solutions to the problems facing California and the nation.
Since her election to the Senate in 1992, Senator Feinstein has worked in a bipartisan way to build a significant record of legislative accomplishments helping strengthen the nation's security both here and abroad, combat crime and violence, battle cancer, and protect natural resources in California and across the country.
In the 110th Congress, Senator Feinstein assumed the Chairmanship of the Rules and Administration Committee, where she oversees ethics, campaign and election reform. Senator Feinstein also serves on the Senate Judiciary Committee, where she is the Chairman of the Terrorism, Technology and Homeland Security Subcommittee. And she is a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee and Select Committee on Intelligence.
"Dianne and I have fought side by side in the Senate to expand stem cell research, to take care of our veterans when they return home and to stop the privatization of Social Security," Clinton said. "Dianne is such a respected voice in the Senate, I'm honored to have her support as we work together to bring the war in Iraq to an end and deliver the change this country wants."
  