
    WASHINGTON – Saying he looks forward to an issue-oriented campaign for the Democratic Party presidential nomination, U.S. Sen. Bernie Sanders on Tuesday welcomed former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton to a meeting of the Senate Democratic Caucus.
"I have known Secretary Clinton for 25 years, since she was first lady. I served with her in the Senate. I like and respect Hillary Clinton," Sanders said. "But there are differences of opinion that we have which should be the basis for a serious discussion."
"The American middle class continues to disappear while almost all of the new wealth and income is going to the top 1 percent. I look forward to an issues-oriented debate with Secretary Clinton as to the best way forward to help working families in America."
Sanders highlighted several issues on which he and the former U.S. senator from New York have different views.
"I have strongly opposed disastrous trade agreements which have led to the loss of millions of decent-paying jobs and I oppose the proposed Trans-Pacific Partnership. Secretary Clinton has a different view," Sanders said.
"I strongly opposed the war in Iraq. Secretary Clinton, as a senator, voted for it.
"I voted against the so-called Patriot Act which authorized the National Security Agency to collect the telephone and e-mail records of millions of Americans. Secretary Clinton voted for it.
"Because of concerns about climate change, I strongly opposed the proposed Keystone XL pipeline. Secretary Clinton has not voiced an opinion.
"I helped lead the effort to stop the deregulation of Wall Street. I believe the biggest banks should be broken up and that Glass-Steagall financial regulations should be reinstated. To the best of my knowledge, she isn't for either one.
"I believe we should raise the minimum wage to $15 an hour and have introduced legislation to create 13 million jobs by a $1 trillion investment in our crumbling infrastructure. Secretary Clinton has been unclear.
"I have offered legislation to make public colleges and universities tuition-free and would pay for it by a transaction fee on Wall Street speculators. Her position is unclear."
  