
    To the Congress of the United States:
I have reviewed the report entitled "The Fourth Analysis and Evaluation of Federal Juvenile Delinquency Programs" submitted to me and the Congress by the Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention, the Law Enforcement Assistance Administration, Department of Justice.
I concur with the recommendations in the report that I: (1) assure that the statutory members of the Coordinating Council on Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention designate individuals to attend Council meetings who have significant decision-making authority; (2) encourage each Federal agency which administers a Federal Juvenile Delinquency program to cooperate with the Coordinating Council and the Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention in the Development of the Annual Analysis and Evaluation of Federal juvenile delinquency programs; (3) encourage statutory members of the Coordinating Council to provide adequate staff support for the Council; and (4) reaffirm the importance of a concentration of Federal effort for all Federal juvenile delinquency programs and activities.
I am deeply committed to the goals and objectives of the Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention Act and strongly support its reauthorization. To fully realize their potential, it is crucial that there be a maximum coordination between all Federal programs directed at troubled youth. In this time of budget austerity, it becomes even more critical that the Federal government maximize the potential of its scarce resources.
The Coordinating Council on Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention has made much progress in having agencies work together. Joint programs are underway with the Office of Juvenile Justice, Department of Labor, Department of Housing and Urban Development, Department of Education, Department of Health and Human Services and the Department of Agriculture. I applaud this kind of cooperation and strongly urge that it be continued and broadened.
I have asked the Director of the Office of Management and Budget, acting on my behalf, to take all necessary steps to implement fully the first three recommendations.
This report is submitted pursuant to Section 204(c) of the Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention Act of 1974, as amended (42 U.S.C. 5614(c) ).
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
July 1, 1980.
  