
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
July 24
In the evening, the President returned from Aspen, CO, to Washington, DC. Later, the President and Hillary and Chelsea Clinton traveled to Rabat, Morocco, arriving the following day.
July 25
The President met briefly with Prime Minister Ehud Barak of Israel and Chairman Yasser Arafat of the Palestinian Authority at the Royal Palace in Rabat.
The President and Hillary Clinton then met briefly with King Mohammed IV of Morocco, successor to King Hassan II, before attending the funeral of King Hassan.
In the evening, the President and Hillary and Chelsea Clinton returned to Washington, DC.
July 26
The White House announced that the President announced the release of Treasury Department regulations implementing the administration's new humanitarian-based food and medicine sanctions policy.
July 27
The President announced his intention to nominate Anne H. Chasser to be Assistant Commissioner for Patents and Trademarks at the Department of Commerce.
The President announced his intention to appoint Paige E. Reffe as a member of the Board of Visitors of the U.S. Air Force Academy.
The President announced his intention to appoint J. Shelby Bryan as a member of the President's Foreign Intelligence Advisory Board.
July 28
The President announced his intention to nominate Martin N. Baily to be Chair and member of the Council of Economic Advisers.
The President announced his intention to nominate Dorian Vanessa Weaver to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Export-Import Bank of the United States.
The President announced his intention to nominate James G. Huse, Jr., to be Inspector General at the Social Security Administration.
The President announced the nomination of Thomas B. Leary to be a member of the Federal Trade Commission.
The President declared a major disaster in Minnesota and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms, winds, and flooding beginning on July 4 and continuing.
July 29
In the morning, the President traveled to Aviano Air Base in Italy.
The President announced his intention to nominate Susan M. Wachter to be Assistant Secretary for Policy Development and Research at the Department of Housing and Urban Development.
The President announced his intention to nominate Zell Miller to be a member of the Board of Directors for the Overseas Private Investment Corporation.
July 30
In the morning, the President traveled to Sarajevo, Bosnia-Herzegovina, where he met with Prime Minister Milorad Dodik of Republika Srpska and Prime Minister Edhem Bicakcic and Deputy Prime Minister Dragan Covic of the Federation Government (Muslim and Croat) at Zetra Stadium. In the afternoon, he attended the Stability Pact Summit meeting at the stadium.
In the evening, the President participated in a roundtable discussion with regional media from Bosnia and Serbia. He then returned to Washington, DC, arriving the following morning.
The President announced his intention to nominate Edward W. Stimpson to be the U.S. Representative on the Council of the International Civil Aviation Organization, with the rank of Ambassador.
The President announced his intention to nominate Robert H. Griffin and Sam Angel to be members of the Mississippi River Commission.
  