
    "When the President and I invest in climate, we intend to invest in jobs, invest in families, and invest in America," said the Vice President as she announced new funding opportunities that are part of a first-of-its-kind Greenhouse Gas Reduction Fund – created through the Inflation Reduction Act – that will support projects to slash pollution while lowering energy costs for families, creating good-paying jobs, and strengthening climate resilience. 
BALTIMORE, MD –Vice President Kamala Harris just announced a historic 20 billion dollars in funding opportunities that will help combat the climate crisis, invest in transformative environmental justice efforts, and advance clean technology projects in communities throughout America. Joined by EPA Administrator Michael Regan at Coppin State University in Baltimore, the Vice President unveiled two new investments that are part of a first-of-its-kind Greenhouse Gas Reduction Fund, which was created through the Biden-Harris Inflation Reduction Act. This innovative clean energy financing network will greatly support projects to slash harmful climate pollution across the country – with a focus on underserved communities – while lowering energy costs for families, creating more good-paying jobs, and strengthening climate resilience.
"The President and I set ambitious goals to cut our greenhouse gas emissions by half by 2030 and reach net-zero emissions by 2050. The investments announced today move our nation towards achieving these goals and a cleaner, healthier future for generations to come," said Vice President Kamala Harris. "Students, small business owners and community leaders with innovative ideas to reduce our emissions and accelerate our clean energy transition will now see their projects become reality, all while creating good-paying jobs and a clean energy economy that works for all."
The Vice President's event wrapped up the Biden-Harris Administration's second Investing in America tour. Read more about today's historic announcement:
Baltimore Sun: Vice President Kamala Harris, EPA administrator to announce green tech grants Friday at Coppin State in Baltimore [Dan Belson, 7/14/23]
Vice President Kamala Harris and Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Michael Regan are set to appear Friday at Coppin State University to announce two grant competitions totaling $20 billion that aim to advance the Biden administration's environmental justice goals. [...]
The stop comes before Harris embarks on a summer blitz of speaking engagements. She is scheduled to deliver remarks at the Rainbow PUSH Coalition's annual convention Sunday in Chicago before making stops at conferences in Indianapolis, Boston and Orlando, Florida.
NBC News: Biden administration announces $20B in clean energy investments [Megan Lebowitz, 7/14/23]
Vice President Kamala Harris touted the investment Friday afternoon in remarks at Coppin State University in Baltimore, a historically Black university, alongside Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Michael Regan and members of Congress.
She said that the climate crisis is one of the most urgent matters, touching on how communities in the U.S. are facing droughts, flooding and wildfire smoke.
"The climate crisis impacts everybody, but it does not impact all communities equally," Harris said. "Poor communities, rural communities, native communities and communities of color are often the hardest hit and the least able to recover." […]
Harris said the investments will also help families' budgets by improving energy efficient systems and benefit public health by promoting clean air and water. […]
Harris's remarks cap off the Biden administration's Investing in America tour, a weeks-long blitz by senior administration officials who traveled across the country to tout the president's economic agenda.
Reuters: US launches $20 bln in 'green bank' programs to curb climate change  [Timothy Gardner, 7/14/23]
The programs, part of the $27 billion Greenhouse Gas Reduction Fund established by President Joe Biden's Inflation Reduction Act (IRA) last year, are the latest move by his administration to support projects that reduce planet warming emissions.
The $14 billion National Clean Investment Fund will provide grants to two or three national clean financial institutions, enabling them to partner with the private sector to provide financing to tens of thousands of clean technology projects nationwide, the White House said. […]
U.S. Vice President Kamala Harris said at an event in Baltimore that the investments would lower power bills for working families by making heating and cooling systems efficient. "We lower the cost of electricity, which means lower energy bills for working parents, so they have more money for groceries, and home repairs, and school supplies," Harris said.
AP: Biden Administration making $20 billion available from 'green bank' for clean energy projects  [Matthew Daly, 7/14/23]
Vice President Kamala Harris, Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Michael Regan and other officials will announce the grant competitions Friday at a historically black university in Baltimore.
Congress created the green bank, formally known as the Greenhouse Gas Reduction Fund, in last year's climate law. The grant competitions follow a $7 billion Solar for All program launched last month for residential and community solar projects in low-income communities. All three programs will be overseen by the green bank, with grant awards expected next year.
WaPo: EPA unveils $20 billion to finance the fight against climate change [Maxine Joselow and Vanessa Montalbano, 7/14/23]
The grant competitions will dole out $20 billion under the Greenhouse Gas Reduction Fund, commonly known as a "green bank," established by the Inflation Reduction Act. […]
Regan will formally announce the funding during an event in Baltimore today with Vice President Harris and Sens. Chris Van Hollen (D-Md.), Edward J. Markey (D-Mass.) and Thomas R. Carper (D-Del.). The senators helped draft and secure the green bank provisions in the climate law along with Rep. Debbie Dingell (D-Mich.).
The Hill: Biden administration to split green bank funds between national and 'hub' organizations  [Rachel Frazin, 7/14/23]
The Biden administration is expected to announce on Friday how it will dole out funds for climate-friendly projects from the Democrats' Inflation Reduction Act (IRA) — splitting it up between national financing institutions and "hub" nonprofits.
The announcement — which will come during an event in Baltimore with Vice President Kamala Harris — is the latest window into how climate funding from the IRA will be spent.
  