
    STATEMENT OF ADMINISTRATION POLICY
(Senate)(Kennedy (D) Massachusetts and four others)
The Administration supports the overall purpose of S. 358, which represents significant advances in legal immigration reform. However, several Administration concerns remain. The Administration would support S. 358 if it:

Retains its overall cap of 600,000 and continues to provide that the level of the cap be reviewed on a periodic basis. (Every effort should be made to first take advantage of the skills and potential of U.S. workers, before authorizing the admission of immigrants beyond this level.);  
Is amended to further increase somewhat the numbers for the Second independent (formerly Third) and Third independent (formerly Sixth) preference categories, thereby increasing the emphasis towards skill-based immigration;  
Is amended to narrow the Fourth family (formerly Fifth) Preference to "never-married brothers and sisters," but extend visa eligibility for those persons already registered;  
Is amended to provide a greater balance between family and skill-based admission levels by shifting 20,000 visa numbers from the Fourth (formerly Fifth) Preference category to the Selected Immigrant Category, with a 3-year deferral of the shift for purposes of reducing the family preference backlog; and  
Is amended in Section 106 to clarify the authority of the Secretary of State and the Attorney General to set and collect fees for applications, petitions, and visa issuance.

The Administration continues to have questions about the point system for independent immigration contained in S. 358. The Administration intends to work with Congress to revise or find alternatives to the proposed point system. In addition, the Administration will work with Congress to address other issues and technical financing concerns.
The Administration would oppose any amendment to S. 358 which would permit certain non-immigrant aliens from the People's Republic of China to apply for permanent resident status. At this time, such an amendment would be premature. The Administration's Deferral of Enforced Departure Program provides sufficient protection to any Chinese who fear return to China over the next year. No Chinese will be forced to return to China against their will under that program.
  