
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate nine individuals to serve in his Administration:
The President intends to nominate Sharon Lynn Hays, of Virginia, to be Associate Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy. Dr. Hays currently serves as Chief of Staff at the Office of Science and Technology Policy. Earlier in her career, she served as Staff Director of the Subcommittee on Research of the United States House of Representatives Committee on Science. Dr. Hays received her bachelor's degree from the University of California and her PhD in biochemistry from Stanford University. The President intends to nominate Ronald J. James, of Ohio, to be Assistant Secretary of the Army for Manpower and Reserve Affairs. Mr. James currently serves as Senior Policy Advisor to the Under Secretary for Management at the Department of Homeland Security. Earlier in his career, he served as Chief Human Capital Officer. Mr. James received his bachelor's degree from the University of Missouri, his JD from American University, and his master's degree from Southern Illinois University.
The President intends to nominate Robert W. Johnson, of Nevada, to be Commissioner of Reclamation at the Department of the Interior. Mr. Johnson currently serves as Regional Director of the Lower Colorado Region of the Bureau of Reclamation. Prior to this, he served as Deputy Regional Director. Earlier in his career, he was awarded the President's Meritorious Executive Award for superior accomplishment and management of Federal programs. Mr. Johnson received his bachelor's degree and master's degrees from the University of Nevada.
The President intends to nominate James R. Kunder, of Virginia, to be Deputy Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development. Mr. Kunder, currently serves as Assistant Administrator for Asia and the Near East. Earlier in his career, he served as the Director for Relief and Reconstruction in Afghanistan. Mr. Kunder received his bachelor's degree from Harvard University and his master's degree from Georgetown University.
The President intends to nominate Mary Martin Ourisman, of Florida, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Barbados and to serve concurrently as Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to St. Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Antigua and Barbuda, the Commonwealth of Dominica, Grenada, and Saint Vincent and the Grenadines. She currently serves on the Board of Directors of the Blair House and on the Board of Trustees of the Washington National Opera. Previously, Ms. Ourisman served on the National Board of Directors of the Smithsonian Institution. Ms. Ourisman received her bachelor's degree from the University of Texas.
The President intends to nominate Bijan Rafiekian, of California, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Export-Import Bank of the United States. Mr. Rafiekian currently serves as Principal of Global Capital Markets, Incorporated. Earlier in his career, he served as President of the GLOBTEL Group of Companies. Mr. Rafiekian received his bachelor's degree from Tehran Industrial College and his master's degree from Brighton University.
The President intends to nominate Karen B. Stewart, of Florida, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Belarus. Ms. Stewart, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, currently serves as Director of the Office of Ukraine, Moldova, and Belarus Affairs at the Department of State. Earlier in her career she served as Deputy Chief of Mission in Minsk and Deputy Chief of Mission in Laos. Ms. Stewart received her bachelor's degree from Wellesley College and her master's from the National Defense University.
The President intends to nominate Major General Todd I. Stewart, U.S.A.F (Ret.), of Ohio, to be a Member of the National Security Education Board for a four year term.
The President intends to nominate Jane Marie Doggett, of Montana, to be a Member of the National Council on the Humanities for the remainder of a six year term expiring January 26, 2012.
  