
    WASHINGTON – Today, President Barack Obama announced his intent to nominate Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) Commissioner Jill E. Sommers to serve another term as a Commissioner of the CFTC.
President Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individual today:
Jill E. Sommers, Nominee for Commissioner, Commodity Futures Trading Commission 
Jill E. Sommers was sworn in as a Commissioner of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission on August 8, 2007 to a term that expires April 13, 2009. On February 4, 2008 the Commission appointed Commissioner Sommers to serve as Chairman and Designated Federal Official of the Global Markets Advisory Committee, which meets periodically to discuss issues of concern to exchanges, firms, market users and the Commission regarding the regulatory challenges of a global marketplace. She also serves as the Commission designee to the Financial Literacy and Education Commission, which is chaired by the Secretary of Treasury and was established to improve the financial literacy and education of U.S. citizens. Commissioner Sommers has worked in the commodity futures and options industry in a variety of capacities throughout her career. In 2005 she was the Policy Director and Head of Government Affairs for the International Swaps and Derivatives Association, where she worked on a number of over-the-counter derivatives issues. Prior to that, Commissioner Sommers worked in the Government Affairs Office of the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, where she was instrumental in overseeing regulatory and legislative affairs for the exchange. During her tenure with the exchange, she had the opportunity to work closely with congressional staff drafting the Commodity Futures Modernization Act of 2000. Commissioner Sommers started her career in Washington in 1991 as an intern for Senator Robert J. Dole (R-KS), working in various capacities until 1995. She later worked as a legislative aide for two consulting firms specializing in agricultural issues, Clark & Muldoon, P.C. and Taggart and Associates. A native of Fort Scott, Kansas, Commissioner Sommers holds a Bachelor of Arts degree from the University of Kansas.
  