
    WASHINGTON – Today, President Barack Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key administration posts:
•      Kristie A. Kenney, Ambassador to the Kingdom of Thailand, Department of State
•      Jo Ellen Powell, Ambassador to the Islamic Republic of Mauritania, Department of State
President Obama said, "I am proud to nominate these accomplished individuals to represent our nation abroad. I am grateful they have agreed to serve in these important roles, and I look forward to working with them to strengthen our global partnerships."
President Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key administration posts:
Kristie A. Kenney, Nominee for Ambassador to the Kingdom of Thailand, Department of State
Kristie A. Kenney is a career member of the Senior Foreign Service. She most recently served as the U.S. Ambassador to the Republic of the Philippines. Prior to that, she served as the U.S. Ambassador to the Republic of Ecuador. Her Washington, D.C assignments have included serving as the Executive Secretary of the Department of State, Director of the State Department Operations Center, and as a member of the National Security Council staff under President Clinton. She also served in Argentina, Switzerland and Jamaica. She received a Master's Degree from Tulane University and a B.A. from Clemson University.
Jo Ellen Powell, Nominee for Ambassador to the Islamic Republic of Mauritania, Department of State
Jo Ellen Powell is a career member of the Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor. She most recently served as Consul General in Frankfurt, Germany. Prior to that Ms. Powell was the Executive Director of the Bureau of Western Hemisphere Affairs, Director of the Office of Employee Relations, and Management Counselor at the U.S. Embassy in Canberra, Australia. Other overseas assignments include France, Italy, Lebanon, and Jordan. In Washington, Ms. Powell served in the Executive Secretariat and the European Bureau Executive Office. She received her B.A. from Centre College in Kentucky.
  