
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate eight individuals, appoint three individuals and has designated one individual to serve in his Administration.
The President has designated David Longly Bernhardt, of Colorado, to be Acting US Commissioner on the Part of the United States on the International Boundary Commission (US and Canada). Mr. Bernhardt currently serves as Solicitor of the Department of the Interior. Prior to this, he served as Deputy Chief of Staff and Counselor to the Secretary at the Department of the Interior. Earlier in his career, he served as Director of Congressional and Legislative Affairs and Counselor to the Secretary at the Department of the Interior. Mr. Bernhardt received his bachelor's degree from the University of Northern Colorado and his JD from The George Washington University.
The President intends to nominate Gene A. Cretz, of New York, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States to Libya. Mr. Cretz currently serves as Deputy Chief of Mission at the United States Embassy in Tel Aviv. Prior to this, he served as Deputy Chief of Mission at the United States Embassy in Damascus. Earlier in his career, he served as Minister Counselor of Economic and Political Affairs at the United States Embassy in Cairo. Mr. Cretz received his bachelor's degree from the University of Rochester and his master's degree from State University College at Buffalo.
The President intends to nominate Donald M. Kerr, of Virginia, to be Principal Deputy Director of National Intelligence at the Office of the Director of National Intelligence. Dr. Kerr currently serves as Director of the National Reconnaissance Office. Prior to this, he served as Deputy Director for Science and Technology at the Central Intelligence Agency. Earlier in his career, he served as Assistant Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Dr. Kerr received his bachelor's degree, master's degree and PhD from Cornell University.
The President intends to nominate Mark Kimmitt, of Virginia, to be Assistant Secretary of State (Political-Military Affairs). Mr. Kimmitt currently serves as Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for the Middle East at the Department of Defense. Prior to this, he served as Deputy Director for Strategy and Plans for the United States Central Command, and Deputy Director for Operations/Chief Military Spokesman for Coalition Forces in Iraq. Mr. Kimmitt received his bachelor's degree from the United States Military Academy at West Point and his master's degree from Harvard University. He also received master's degrees from the United States Army Command and General Staff College and the National Defense University.
The President intends to nominate John S. Bresland, of New Jersey, to be a Member and Chairperson of the Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board for five year terms. Mr. Bresland currently serves as a Member of the Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board. Prior to this, he served as President of Environment and Safety Risk Assessment, LLC. Earlier in his career, he served as Director of Environmental Risk Management at Honeywell International, Inc. Mr. Bresland earned an undergraduate degree from Londonderry Technical College in Northern Ireland and a graduate degree from Salford University in England.
The President intends to nominate Charles Russell Horner Shearer, of Delaware, to be a Member of the Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board for a five year term. Mr. Shearer currently serves as Deputy Chief for Enforcement and Technical Matters in the Office of Health, Safety and Security at the Department of Energy. Prior to this, he served as Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary of Energy (Environment, Safety and Health). Earlier in his career, he served as Special Assistant to the Assistant Secretary of the Army (Installations and Environment). Mr. Shearer received his bachelor's degree from Washington and Lee University, his JD from Widener University, and his LLM from Tulane University.
The President intends to nominate the following individuals to be Members of the Board of Directors of the Tennessee Valley Authority:
Thomas C. Gilliland, of Georgia, for the remainder of a five-year term expiring 05/18/2011
William H. Graves, of Tennessee, for a five-year term expiring 05/18/2012
Susan Richardson Williams, of Tennessee, for a five-year term expiring 05/18/2012
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the President's National Security Telecommunications Advisory Committee:
Kyle E. McSlarrow, of Virginia Ivan Seidenberg, of New York Mike Zafirovski, of Illinois
  