
    "President Obama may think government creates businesses — but it's clear small-business owners across the country disagree. The Obama economy has created fewer jobs and fewer opportunities for small businesses to grow and thrive. It's time for a president who understands that hard work and entrepreneurship create our nation's businesses, not liberal government programs." — Amanda Henneberg, Romney Campaign Spokesperson
Business Owners Around The Country Continue To Criticize President Obama's Claim That Americans "Didn't Build" Their Businesses:
Nicole Goolsby, Owner Of North Carolina-Based Rion Homes: "President Obama's Comments Were An Insult To The Sweat And Sacrifice That I Have Put Into My Business." "Nicole Goolsby, 48, started her small business, the Cornelius, N.C.-based Rion Homes, 12 years ago after taking out a $15,000 loan on her credit card and setting up a desk in her bedroom. ... 'President Obama's comments were an insult to the sweat and sacrifice that I have put into my business in an effort to build a better life for my children and my community,' Goolsby said Wednesday a 'We Did Build This' event sponsored the campaign for Obama's GOP opponent, Mitt Romney." (Carmen Cusido, "Charlotte-Area Small Business Owners Tell Obama: Yes We Did," Charlotte Observer, 7/26/12)
Larson Group Owner Glenn Larson: "If I Didn't Build It, Who Laid Awake At Night Worrying If We Could Make Payroll?" The Ozarks businessmen called the president's statement offensive to small business owners, who have faced hardships in starting and growing their companies. "If I didn't build it, who laid awake at night worrying if we could make payroll?" said Glen Larson, owner of the Larson Group in Springfield. "And if I didn't build it, who laid awake at night and did the business plans with the banks and the accounting firms to make the businesses go?" (Josh Nelson, "Ozarks Business Owners Criticize Obama's Small Business Remark" Springfield News-Leader, 7/26/12)
Main Line Engineering President Ted Delgaizo: "I Felt Like He Was Mocking Small Business Owners And Saying That The American Dream Is Not About Small Businesses And The Individual, But About Government." "Ted Delgaizo, president of Main Line Engineering in Uwchlan, said he was insulted by the president's comments. 'I felt like he was mocking small business owners and saying that the American dream is not about small businesses and the individual, but about government,' Delgaizo said." (Eric S. Smith, "Supporters Rally For Presidential Candidates In West Chester," West Chester Daily Local, 7/26/12)
Terry Grawey, Owner Of Identity Apparel In Illinois: "I Have Never Been So Disgusted With What Is Going On In Washington." "A couple of those businessmen wrote him emails of support, including Terry Grawey of Identity Apparel in Peoria Heights, Ill. 'I just saw your ad,' Grawey wrote in an email to Dutra shared with the Las Vegas Review-Journal with Grawey's permission. 'I too am a small businessman. I operate 5 businesses. I built every one by myself. My wife helped tremendously, but that's all the help I received. I have never been so disgusted with what is going on in Washington.'" (Laura Myers, "Reno Businessman Gets Boost After Appearing In Romney Web Video," Las Vegas Review Journal, 7/26/12)
Aspen Insurance Agency President And State Rep. Will Infantine: "I Was Never So Angry As When I Heard That Comment." "Rep. Will Infantine, R-Manchester and president of Aspen Insurance Agency, said when he heard the President's comments about successful small businesses having help building their companies, 'I was never so angry as when I heard that comment.'" (Garry Rayno, "Rep Wants Apology For Small-Business Comment," New Hampshire Union Leader, 7/26/12)
  