
    Rand Paul for President today announced the endorsement of 25 New Hampshire leaders and activists. These endorsers join N.H. State Senators Andy Sanborn and Kevin Avard along with 25 State Representatives and 48 other endorsers, totaling 125 endorsements by New Hampshire public officials, business leaders, and activists.
"Rand Paul is building the strongest grass roots team in the First in the Nation Primary by working hard both here and in Washington. The senator is leading the fight against the status quo and the Washington Machine that has far too long controlled our nation's capital. New Hampshire voters are standing with him in his fight," said Mike Biundo, Senior Adviser and N.H. Chief Strategist.
A list of the new endorsements can be found below:
Eva Arsenault, Weare -Hillsborough County Activist
Dave Baker, Wolfeboro - Former Ron Paul Town Chair
Joan Bastek, Gonic - Liberty activist
Michael Baum, Nashua - Small business owner
Hon. Paul Brown, Raymond - Former State Representative, 2012 Legislator of the Year, and Ron Paul Town Chair
Rep. Ed Comeau, Brookfield - State Representative from Brookfield
Harrison DeBree, Dover - Member of the NHGOP State Committee
Mark Evans, Berlin- Former GOP Nominee for State Senate District CDR Randal Heller, Barrington - Retired US Navy Officer
Naomi Jeys, Manchester - Member of the Manchester Republican Committee
Christopher Koterba, Nashua - Nashua Activist
Tony Lekas, Hudson - Software engineer and NRA Instructor
Ellen Lynch, Weare - Hillsborough County Activist
Hon. Andrew Manuse, Derry - Former State Representative and Delegate for Ron Paul
Lynn McJones, Georges Mills - Sullivan County Activist
Rep. Mark McLean, Manchester - State Representative from Manchester
Hon. Paul Mirski, Enfield - Former State Representative and Delegate for Ron Paul
James Morrow, Strafford - Student at Plymouth State University and member of the College Republicans
Ron Noyes, Contoocook - Former Ron Paul Delegate and Town Chair
Angela Pont, Portsmouth - Anti-Common Core activist
Anthony Pugh, Manchester - Former Political Action Director of NH Liberty Alliance
Richard Quintal, Mont Vernon - Former Chairman of the Mont Vernon Republican Committee
Lincoln Sexton, Barnstead - Veteran and former Ron Paul Town Chair
Kayla Yoder, Dover - Dover Activist
Tony Zore, North Conway - Mount Washington Radio producer and host
  