
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
July 21
The President announced his intention to nominate Lt. Gen. John A. Gordon, USAF, as Deputy Director of the Central Intelligence Agency.
The President declared a major disaster in Washington State and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by snowmelt and flooding on April 10 and continuing through June 30.
July 22
The President announced his intention to nominate Philip Lader as Ambassador to the United Kingdom.
The President amended the major disaster declaration of June 13 for Idaho to include assistance to affected individuals in the area struck by severe storms, snowmelt, land and mud slides, and flooding on March 14 and continuing through June 30.
July 23
In the morning, the President met with President Olafur Grimsson of Iceland in the Oval Office.
The President announced his intention to nominate Gov. William F. Weld of Massachusetts as Ambassador to Mexico.
The President announced his intention to appoint Cathryn Buford Slater as Chair and member of the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation.
The President announced his nomination of Shirley Robinson Watkins and August Schumacher as members of the Board of Directors of the Commodity Credit Corporation.
July 24
In the morning, the President met with President Roman Herzog of Germany in the Oval Office.
July 25
In the morning, the President traveled to Arlington, VA, and in the afternoon, he returned to Washington, DC.
In the evening, the President addressed members of Boys Nation in the East Room.
The President announced his intention to appoint Joyce A. Savocchio to serve as Vice-Chair and member of the Christopher Columbus Fellowship Foundation.
The President declared a major disaster in Montana and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms, ice jams, snowmelt, flooding, and extreme soil saturation on March 1 and continuing.
The President declared a major disaster in Vermont and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by excessive rainfall, high winds, and flooding on July 15-17.
The President declared a major disaster in Alabama and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms, flooding, and high winds associated with Hurricane Danny on July 17-22.
  