
    WASHINGTON – Today, President Barack Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key Administration posts:

Michael E. Horowitz – Inspector General, Department of Justice
Anneila I. Sargent - Member, National Science Board, National Science Foundation 

The President also announced his intent to appoint the following individuals to key Administration posts:

Betty Castor – Member, J. William Fulbright Foreign Scholarship Board 
Susan Ness - Member, J. William Fulbright Foreign Scholarship Board 
Clement A. Price - Vice Chairman, Advisory Council on Historic Preservation 

President Obama said, "The extraordinary dedication these men and women bring to their new roles will greatly serve the American people. I am grateful they have agreed to serve in this Administration and I look forward to working with them in the months and years to come."
President Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key Administration posts:
Michael E. Horowitz, Nominee for Inspector General, Department of Justice
Michael E. Horowitz is currently a Partner at Cadwalader, Wickersham, & Taft LLP, where his practice focuses on white collar defense, internal investigations, and regulatory compliance. Mr. Horowitz previously served as a Commissioner for the U.S. Sentencing Commission, a position he held from 2003 to 2009. From 1999 to 2002, he was Deputy Assistant Attorney General and then Chief of Staff for the Criminal Division at the Department of Justice. From 1991 to 1999, Mr. Horowitz was an Assistant U.S. Attorney in the U.S. Attorney's Office for the Southern District of New York, serving as Chief of the Public Corruption Unit from 1997 to 1999. Earlier in his career, Mr. Horowitz was an associate at Debevoise & Plimpton and clerked for Judge John G. Davies of the U.S. District Court for the Central District of California. Mr. Horowitz is a board member of the Ethics Resource Center, the Society of Corporate Compliance and Ethics, and the Lawyers Committee for Civil Rights Under Law. Mr. Horowitz holds a B.A. from Brandeis University and a J.D. from Harvard Law School.
Dr. Anneila I. Sargent, Nominee for Member, National Science Board, National Science Foundation
Dr. Anneila I. Sargent is Vice President for Student Affairs and the Benjamin M. Rosen Professor of Astronomy at the California Institute of Technology. An accomplished astronomer, Dr. Sargent has served as President of the American Astronomical Society, Chair of NASA's Space Science Advisory Committee and Chair of the National Research Council's Board of Physics and Astronomy. She was also a Member of the Nation Science Foundation's Mathematical and Physical Sciences Advisory Committee. Dr. Sargent led two large research operations as Director of the Combined Array for Research in Millimeter-wave Astronomy and the Owens Valley Radio Observatory. She was awarded the NASA Public Service Medal in 1998, and is a Fellow of the American Academy for Arts and Sciences. Dr. Sargent holds B.Sc. and D.Sc. degrees from the University of Edinburgh, and a Ph.D. from Caltech.
President Obama announced his intent to appoint the following individuals to key Administration posts:
Betty Castor, Appointee for Member, J. William Fulbright Foreign Scholarship Board
Betty Castor is the former President of the University of South Florida in Tampa, Florida, where she served as President for six years from 1994 until 1999. Prior to her tenure as President, she was the Florida Commissioner of Education for seven years and the first woman ever elected to the Florida Cabinet. Ms. Castor has held other leadership positions in education, most recently as the Executive Director of the Patel Center for Global Solutions at USF. She is a former state legislator having served three terms in the Florida Senate. Ms. Castor is a member of the Tampa Bay Committee on Foreign Relations and the Society of International Business Fellows. She began her educational career as a secondary school teacher in Uganda, East Africa and continues to support the Teachers for East Africa Alumni Foundation. She received her Bachelor's degree from Rowan University, Glassboro, New Jersey and her Master's degree from the University of Miami, Coral Gables, Florida.
Susan Ness, Appointee for Member, J. William Fulbright Foreign Scholarship Board
Susan Ness is the founder of Susan Ness Strategies, a communications policy consulting firm, and a Senior Fellow at the Center for Transatlantic Relations at Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies. She is also currently a board member of Vital Voices Global Partnership. Previously, Ms. Ness served as the President and CEO of GreenStone Media, LLC, which produced syndicated talk radio programming targeting women, and as a Distinguished Visiting Professor at the Annenberg School for Communications. From 1994 to 2001, Ms. Ness was a member of the Federal Communications Commission, having been appointed by President Clinton. Prior to joining the FCC, she was corporate vice president of the American Security Bank, specializing in the telecom and media sectors, and assistant counsel to the Banking Committee of the U.S. House of Representatives. She received her Bachelor's Degree from Douglass College, her J.D. from Boston College and her M.B.A. from The Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania.
Clement A. Price, Appointee for Vice Chairman, Advisory Council on Historic Preservation
Clement A. Price is the Board of Governors Distinguished Service Professor of History and the Founder and Director of the Institute on Ethnicity, Culture, and the Modern Experience at Rutgers University, Newark Campus. Professor Price is involved in many historic and cultural institutions in New Jersey. He currently serves as the Chair of the Save Ellis Island Foundation and the Newark Education Trust, and is a member of the New Jersey Historical Commission, the New Jersey State Council on the Arts, and the Newark Black Film Festival. He received his B.A. and M.A. in History from the University of Bridgeport and his Ph.D. in History from Rutgers.
  