
    
This week, after giving a major policy speech on technology and jobs in the 21st Century in Chicago on Tuesday morning, Marco traveled to Iowa for a three day campaign swing. Here's a look back at all of the events
Tuesday
Interview with Simon Conway
WHO Radio
Des Moines
After landing in Iowa, Marco joined Simon Conway in studio at WHO-AM for an interview discussing a wide range of topics, including the campaign, immigration, and education reform.
Full interview below




Bull Moose Young Professionals Happy Hour
Exile Brewing Company
Des Moines
Later in the day, Marco joined the Des Moines Bull Moose Club for a happy hour. It was a huge crowd and Marco tried to capture it with a selfie:
Thanks to everyone who came out to @ExileBrewingCo tonight! (my selfie skills need some improvement...) pic.twitter.com/QooA1gSfu9
— Marco Rubio (@marcorubio) July 8, 2015

State Rep Chris Hagenow's Summer Party
Windsor Heights
Then it was on to Windsor Heights, where Marco spoke with attendees and members of the media. Watch KCCI's coverage of the event here:

Click here to donate now and help Marco return to Iowa.
Wednesday
Westside Conservative Breakfast
The Machine Shed Restaurant
Urbandale
With an early start on Wednesday, Marco spoke to a packed house at the Machine Shed
Standing room only crowd earlier this morning at the Machine Shed in Urbandale, Iowa!
A photo posted by Marco Rubio For President (@marcorubiofla) on Jul 8, 2015 at 7:38am PDT

Hy-Vee Cafe,  Grinnell
Marco and the team made a quick stop at the Hy-Vee in Grinnell to grab some lunch and chat with voters
Thanks to Jovi at Hyvee for the great sandwiches! A photo posted by Marco Rubio For President (@marcorubiofla) on Jul 8, 2015 at 10:31am PDT  

made a quick stop at the @HyVee in Grinnell, Iowa & @marcorubio got to meet with some voters pic.twitter.com/Q6BP8NEFxY — Team Marco (@TeamMarco) July 8, 2015

 Meet and Greet hosted by State Rep. Bobby Kaufman
Wilton Community Center
Wilton
At the next event, State Representative Bobby Kaufman, a young, rising leader in Iowa officially endorsed Marco in front of a crowd of over 350 in Wilton:
Another big crowd: over 350 people joined us in Wilton, Iowa tonight! A photo posted by Marco Rubio For President (@marcorubiofla) on Jul 8, 2015 at 4:51pm PDT

Watch Marco's Snapchat story from the day: 

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Or_6YcQ14FE
Click here to donate now and help Marco return to Iowa.
Thursday
Meet & Greet Scott County GOP HQ
Davenport
Another early morning and another big crowd, this time in the Quad Cities with the Scott County GOP:
Good morning from Davenport, Iowa! @marcorubio is kicking the day off at the Scott County GOP HQ pic.twitter.com/1KPW3WnzWj — Team Marco (@TeamMarco) July 9, 2015

After that, Marco joined Martha MacCallum for a live interview on Fox News:

  