
    Q. What are you planning to discuss today?
Q. Have you had a chance to talk about the interview this morning?
President Trump. Do you want to start off, Theresa?
Prime Minister May. Well, look, we've got a lot to discuss. We're going to discuss the special relationship, which is great, between the U.K. and the United States. We're going to be discussing the real opportunities we've got for a fantastic trade deal coming up when we leave the European Union.
And of course, we'll discuss some foreign policy and defense and security issues. And we work really closely together with the U.S. The United States is our longest standing and deepest security and defense partner. And we work great together. The President did a very good job at NATO in encouraging others to spend up to their commitment. We do. So—we both do, of course.
President Trump. That's right.
Prime Minister May. But others are now—understand the importance of spending their 2-percent commitment in NATO.
So we've got a lot to talk about.
President Trump. Well, we do. And the Prime Minister and I worked very hard together in NATO, and that was an incredible 2 days, I think. It's never been more united. People are paying. We are two of the five that are totally paid up, but others are coming along rapidly. I think it was a very, very productive 2 days.
And we arrived here last night. We had a dinner where I think we probably never developed a better relationship than last night. We spoke for hours—for an hour and a half, and it was really something.
And today we're talking trade. We're talking military. We just looked at some incredible antiterrorism things that are being done here in conjunction with the United States. And the relationship is very, very strong. We really had a very good relationship.
And I think we're going to do a news conference in a little while, so we'll answer your questions then. And right now we're going to be talking about some other things that are taking place in the Middle East and elsewhere. Okay?
Thank you all very much. Thank you.
  