
    Mr. Secretary, Mrs. Reinhardt, Mr. Williamson, ladies and gentlemen:
I want to express my appreciation to all of you for your welcome and also to say how glad I am to see you here, how very important your work here is in Rome, and how very dependent we are upon your counsel, your great efforts for the United States, and the efforts for the United States, it seems to me, also serve Italy and the entire free world.
I know we have here today a combination of Italians and Americans. It is impossible to tell the difference. Whether that is because the Americans are becoming more Italian or the Italians more American--perhaps you could hold up your hands, all of you who are citizens of the United States. And all of you who are citizens of Italy.
Well, I want to express to both of you our thanks. I hope those of you who are Italians will feel that in working for the United States Government, as you do, that you also work in behalf of your own country. I think you do.
The great interest of the United States and Italy are wholly parallel. The great effort which we are both making serves not only our people, but all who depend upon us. In serving the United States in this capacity, it seems to me that you are fulfilling the highest responsibilities of your Italian citizenship in the same way that American citizens who work in the Italian Embassy in Washington, I think, also help the United States.
I want to say a special word of appreciation to all of you. This is not a hardship post exactly, but it is a post of the greatest responsibility. Ancient Rome had its mission, but so does modern Rome. Most especially, so does the United States. I have come on this trip to Europe, which is coming to an end, because I believe so strongly that the great power of Europe should be harnessed to the great power of the United States, and together both Europe and the United States should concern themselves not merely with the business of our own immediate interests, but with the business of the free world's interest all around the globe. The United States has carried the great burden of this struggle now for 18 years. In some places it carries it almost alone. It made a major effort here in Europe. It is now making a major effort in other sections of the globe.
It is my hope that the countries of Western Europe will, as their strength increases, and that strength is impressive, will more and more associate themselves as equal partners in the greatest of all struggles--the maintenance of freedom, the maintenance of peace. So I congratulate you on the part that you are playing in 1963 in serving the great Republic.
Thank you.
  