
    STATEMENT OF ADMINISTRATION POLICY
(House)
(Rep. Conyers (D) Michigan and 5 cosponsors)
The Administration supports House passage of H.R. 660 to strengthen judicial security. The legislation would enhance the ability of the Federal government to prosecute individuals who attack or threaten participants in the Nation's judicial system, including judges, lawyers, witnesses, and law enforcement officers. A Nation founded on the rule of law must protect the integrity of its judicial system, which must apply the law without fear or favor. The Administration particularly supports the provision to prohibit the filing of false liens against judges, prosecutors, and other government officials to retaliate against them for the performance of their official duties.
The Administration does not believe the provision requiring consultation between the Federal courts and the Marshals Service is necessary, as such consultation occurs on a regular basis all around the country. Furthermore, the Administration is concerned that statutorily required consultation could erode the Justice Department's ability to protect judges in the manner it determines to be safest and most appropriate based on its own threat and intelligence assessments. Also, while the Administration does not oppose adding the U.S. Tax Court as a Marshals Service protectee, the Administration supports the bill's requirement that the U.S. Tax Court reimburse the Marshals Service for this protection. Additionally, it is vital that the Marshals Service retain final authority regarding security requirements for both the Federal judiciary and the U.S. Tax Court. Finally, the Administration is concerned that the bill attempts to address a perceived need for funding by adding new uses to existing, stovepiped grant programs. The Administration believes that these funding needs can be addressed more effectively through the competitive, consolidated grant structure proposed in the President's Budget for FY 2008.
The Administration looks forward to continuing to work with Congress to enhance judicial security through this bill and other measures.
  