
    "President Obama may believe that the latest disappointing unemployment report is a 'step in the right direction' — but for millions of Americans, it's increasingly looking like a 'zombie economy.' President Obama's disastrous economic policies are keeping Americans out of work and job creators uncertain about the future. On Day One, Mitt Romney will implement bold, pro-growth policies to jumpstart our economy and get Americans back to work." —Andrea Saul, Romney Campaign Spokesperson
On Friday, The Obama Economy Produced More News About "Dismal" Hiring And Yet Another "Summer Slump":
"The American Job Machine Has Jammed" And Has Settled Into A "Summer Slump For The Third Year In A Row." "The American job machine has jammed. Again. The economy added only 80,000 jobs in June, the government said Friday, erasing any doubt that the United States is in a summer slump for the third year in a row." (Paul Wiseman, "US Economy Adds 80,000 Jobs In Another Weak Month," The Associated Press, 7/7/12)
"The Weakest Job-Adding Quarter In Two Years..." HARWOOD: "Just 80,000 jobs added in the month of June, Michelle. 8.2% unemployment rate, unchanged, 12.7 million unemployed people, also unchanged. That makes the second quarter the weakest job-adding quarter in two years, an average of 75,000 jobs added in the second quarter of this year." (CNBC's "Squawk Box," 7/6/12)
Last Month, U.S. Employers "Hired At A Dismal Pace." "U.S. employers hired at a dismal pace in June, raising pressure on the Federal Reserve to do more to boost the economy and further imperiling President Barack Obama's chances of reelection in November." (Jason Lange, "U.S. Hiring Stuck In Low Gear In June," Reuters, 7/6/12)
President Obama's Latest Summer Slump And Mounting Economic Weakness Have Produced Warnings Of A "Zombie Economy":
Politico Headline: "Zombie Economy Threatens Obama" (Ben White and Alexander Burns, "Zombie Economy Threatens Obama," Politico, 7/6/12)
CNBC Headline: "Signs We Are Approaching A Zombie Economy" (Patti Domm, "Signs We Are Approaching A Zombie Economy," CNBC, 7/6/12)
Economic Uncertainty And Slower Growth "Have Turned The U.S. Economy Into What Feels Like A Slow-Moving Zombie." "Uncertainty about U.S. fiscal policy, Europe's sovereign crisis and slower global growth have turned the U.S. economy into what feels like a slow-moving zombie, leaving businesses and consumers hesitant and reluctant to act." (Patti Domm, "Signs We Are Approaching A Zombie Economy," CNBC, 7/6/12)
CNBC's Bill Griffeth: "The Worry And The Painfully Slow Growth Has Some Calling This The Zombie Economy." GRIFFETH: "That data, that's what it comes down to. The worry and the painfully slow growth has some calling this the zombie economy. So what's it going to make this recovery really come alive? And how do you make money in this environment?" (CNBC's "Closing Bell," 7/6/12)
University Of Maryland's Peter Morici: "In A Lot Ways ... We're In A Zombie Economy." MORICI: "In a lot of ways — I hate to say this — but we seem to be in not a worst of both worlds, but we're in a zombie economy." (MSNBC's "The Cycle," 7/6/12)
CRT Capital Senior Treasury Strategist Ian Lyngen: "It Feels Like A 'Zomb'-Economy." "CRT Capital Senior Treasury Strategist Ian Lyngen said the economy feels zombie-like. 'The risk taking animal spirits have yet to return,' he said. ... 'That is slow by historic recovery standards...it feels like a 'zomb'-economy,' said Lyngen." (Patti Domm, "Signs We Are Approaching A Zombie Economy," CNBC, 7/6/12)
  