
    CHARLESTON, SC –  Tim Scott joined The Washington Times to discuss his 2024 presidential campaign and his personal faith journey.
WATCH HERE
Tim ScottThe Washington TimesJuly 10, 2023
Billy Hallowell: Well, let's talk about your personal faith, because your Christian faith, it shines through and I've heard you speak a lot on it. We've interviewed in the past, and when you talk about faith, it's very clear that this is very real to you. It's who you are. It's a part of your journey. Let's kind of go back in time, and feel free to to dive into your personal story here, but how did you come into faith?
Tim Scott: I was on that football scholarship, a very small football scholarship at Presbyterian College. I was at an SCA meeting. I had had a horrible car accident the year before during my football season where I lost my first six weeks of my senior football season. Because I fell asleep driving at the wheel, went through the windshield, came back in, and ultimately ended up because of that car accident, missing the first six weeks of my senior football season. And I thought my life was over because football was my life, Jesus was just a game. But on a small football scholarship at Presbyterian College, I realized I had it inverted, that actually Jesus was my life, and football was just a game.
And as a kid raised in poverty, as I've said before, in a single parent household, I always wanted a father's acceptance. I always wanted to be defined by my family lineage, and what I found in my faith was just that. Galatians 3:28 says, I was adopted into the family. If I wanted you to know more about my Abba father, I could read his good book called the Bible, and I could discover all that he said about me. But more importantly, all that he said about himself and all that he is. And when you realize that faith is always a personal journey towards significance, never is it really about success. It's about significance. But the good news is, the more significant you are, it leads to a lot of success.
Watch the full interview here.
  