
    Mr. General Secretary Brezhnev, President Podgorny, Prime Minister Kosygin, and all of our distinguished guests from the Soviet Union and our guests from the United States:
Mr. General Secretary, it is difficult to express in words how much we have appreciated the hospitality, the boundless hospitality, you have extended to all of us from our American party. And we are honored to have you in this house tonight.
As we look back over the last 5 days, we have many unforgettable memories: the magnificent dinner the first night in the Kremlin; the superb performance at the Bolshoi Theater which, in effect, allowed us through music, through dance, through song to visit virtually all of the Soviet Union; and then, the first opportunity that most of us have had, and certainly the first opportunity I have had, to go to the Crimea, to Oreanda, and then yesterday the visit to Minsk.
The difficulty with our position at this point is that your hospitality has been so great we do not know how to equal it when you make your next visit to the United States just a year from now. But I can assure you that you will be received warmly and that we expect next year to continue on the path of progress which began just 2 years ago on my first visit as President to Moscow in 1972.
Tomorrow we will sign the final documents of our meetings. Altogether with the other documents that we have agreed to, they will add up to a very significant progress in Soviet-American relations, progress toward our common goals of reducing the danger of war and increasing the hopes for and actually the products of peace, the benefits of peace for all of our people.
Yesterday, when I visited the famous memorial at Minsk, many thoughts went through my head. I referred earlier in the television address to the village blacksmith, Kaminsky, holding his dead 15-year old son in his hands. I thought of many things, but above all, what that young boy whose life was snuffed out at such an early age might have been had he lived. Possibly there was a great scientist, one who could possibly have composed great music or created beautiful works of art, or one who in the field of medicine might have found an answer to the problem of cancer or one of the other dread diseases which afflict all of mankind.
And as I think of our work together with you and your colleagues, I realize that we are working for the future of our children, our grandchildren, and for all of those who live throughout the world.
Our goal will not be accomplished in one meeting or two or even three. But by continuing our close consultation, by continuing our meetings, we will make definite progress toward our goal of a permanent peace between our two nations and for all people.
None of this would have been possible in the past or will be possible in the future unless it was supported, as it is, by a majority of our people. I know from my visit to the Soviet Union that your policies are supported by a great majority of the Soviet people, your policies looking toward the reduction of the dangers of war and increasing the opportunities for peace. And I can assure you, Mr. General Secretary, that our policies, looking toward closer relations and friendship, not only with the Soviet people but with the leaders of this government, has the support of the great majority of the American people.
And finally, I would say that the progress that we have made and will make in the future not only was possible and will be possible because of the support of our people, it is possible and will be possible because of the initiative taken by the leaders of both countries.
And all of us who have had the opportunity to meet with you and members of your government have valued the personal relations and the personal friendship that has been established by these meetings. And whatever our differences, we must recognize they could never be solved unless we met as friends.
And so, tonight, in proposing the health of the General Secretary, the President, President Podgorny, Prime Minister Kosygin, and to all of our Soviet guests, I do so in the spirit of friendship that has developed over these past 2 years.
We raise our glasses to you because of your official capacities, but more important, we raise our glasses to you because we are friends and because we know that that friendship and that personal relationship that we have at all levels will contribute toward the lasting peace that the peoples of both of our countries want so much.
And so, to the health of the General Secretary Brezhnev and all of our other distinguished Soviet guests, to friendship between the Soviet people and the American people, and to peace for all peoples which that friendship can help create, I ask all of you to rise and raise your glasses.
  