
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
July 21
In the afternoon, the President traveled to Denver, CO.
In the evening, at a private residence, the President attended an "At the Table" meeting concerning women's issues. He later attended a Democratic National Committee dinner at a private residence. He then traveled to Englewood, CO, where he attended a Democratic National Committee reception and dinner at a private residence. Later, he returned to Denver, CO.
July 22
In the morning, the President traveled to Los Angeles, CA. In the afternoon, he traveled to Monrovia, Santa Monica, and Beverly Hills.
In the evening, the President attended a Democratic National Committee dinner at the Beverly Hilton Hotel. Later, he attended a Democratic National Committee dinner at a private residence in Brentwood, CA. He then returned to Los Angeles.
July 23
In the morning, the President traveled to Sacramento, CA. In the afternoon, he attended a Democratic National Committee luncheon at a private residence. He then traveled to San Francisco, CA.
In the evening, the President attended a Democratic National Committee reception at a private residence.
The President declared a major disaster in Michigan and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms and flooding June 21 through July 1.
The White House announced that the President will raise his 1997 budget request for State AIDS drug assistance programs by $65 million.
July 24
In the morning, the President returned to Washington, DC. In the afternoon, he met with Executive Deputy President Thabo Mbeki of South Africa in the Oval Office at the White House.
The President announced his intention to appoint Douglas A. Horne to the Advisory Committee on the Arts of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts.
The President announced his intention to nominate Letitia Chambers to the Board of Trustees of the Institute of American Indian and Alaska Native Culture and Arts Development.
The President accorded the personal rank of Ambassador to Jacques Paul Klein in his capacity as the United Nations Transitional Administrator for Eastern Slavonia.
July 25
In the morning, the President and Hillary Clinton traveled to John F. Kennedy International Airport, Jamaica, NY.
In the afternoon, the President and Hillary Clinton traveled to Atlanta, GA, where they attended events at the Centennial Olympic games. Later, they returned to Washington, DC, arriving after midnight.
The President announced his intention to nominate Anthony R. Sarmiento to the National Institute of Literacy Advisory Board.
The President declared a major disaster in Illinois and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms and flooding beginning July 17 and continuing.
The White House announced that the President dispatched Special Envoy for Burundi Peace Negotiations Howard Wolpe to the region for urgent consultations.
July 26
In the afternoon, the President addressed the Conference of Presidents of Major Jewish Organizations in Room 450 of the Old Executive Office Building.
The President announced his intention to nominate five members to the National Science Board: John A. Armstrong, M.R.C. Greenwood, Stanley Vincent Jaskolski, Vera C. Rubin, and Bob H. Suzuki.
The White House announced that the President denied the application by Jonathan Pollard for executive clemency.
The President declared a major disaster in Pennsylvania and ordered Federal aid to supplement Commonwealth and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms, flooding, and tornadoes on July 19.
  