
    Today, President Donald J. Trump announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key positions in his Administration:
Michael George DeSombre, of Illinois, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Kingdom of Thailand.
Michael George DeSombre serves on the board of the Hong Kong Forum, an organization that promotes exchanges between scholars and policymakers worldwide, and is active in the region's intellectual and philanthropic communities. As a globally recognized authority on mergers, acquisitions, and high profile negotiations, Mr. DeSombre is a partner at Sullivan & Cromwell, LLP law firm and leads the mergers and acquisition practice in Asia. Mr. DeSombre has served as Chairman of the Board of Save the Children Hong Kong since 2015 and has resided in Asia for the past two decades. In 1990, Mr. DeSombre received a B.A. in Quantitative Economics, and an M.A. in East Asian Studies from Stanford University. He graduated from Harvard Law School, magna cum laude, in 1995. Mr. DeSombre is fluent in Mandarin Chinese and is conversational in Korean and Japanese.
Carmen G. Cantor, of Puerto Rico, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary to the Federated States of Micronesia.
Carmen G. Cantor is a career member of the Senior Executive Service and currently serves as Director of the Civil Service Human Resource Management at the Department of State. Previously, Ms. Cantor served in various roles within the Department of State, including as the Executive Director of the Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs and Bureau of International Information Programs, Executive Director of the Bureau of Counterterrorism, and as Deputy Director for Recruitment, Examination, and Employment. Before joining the Department of State, Ms. Cantor served as Director of the Office of Civil Rights for the Foreign Agricultural Service, and as Director of the Office of Equal Employment Opportunity at the Federal Maritime Commission. She earned a B.A. from the University of Puerto Rico and an M.A. from the Inter-American University of Puerto Rico.
Lisa W. Hershman, of Indiana, to be the Chief Management Officer of the Department of Defense.
Lisa W. Hershman is currently Deputy Chief Management Officer and Performing the Duties of the Chief Management Officer of the Department of Defense. Before joining the Department of Defense, Ms. Hershman was Founder and CEO of The DeNovo Group, and is the former CEO of Hammer and Company. Ms. Hershman also served as Senior Vice President of Operational Excellence at Avnet, where her work was honored with the Avnet Corporate Chairman's Award. Ms. Hershman earned a B.S. in Industrial Distribution (Engineering and Management) from Clarkson University, an Executive Certificate in Innovation through the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and the Institute for Management Development program, and an Executive Certificate in Finance from Cornell University.
  