
    President Donald J. Trump today announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key positions in his Administration:
John J. Bartrum of Indiana to be an Assistant Secretary, Financial Resources at the Department of Health and Human Services. Mr. Bartrum has more than 30 years of Federal health policy and budget experience as a retired Federal Senior Executive Service member and Capitol Hill veteran. Immediately prior to his nomination, he was a partner within the Healthcare and Life Sciences Industry Group at Squire Patton Boggs in Washington, DC. In his Federal career, Mr. Bartrum served as Senior Professional Staffer to the U.S. House Appropriations Committee, Budget Director at the National Institute of Health, professional staff in the Office of Management and Budget (OMB), and in other Federal positions over his career. In addition, Mr. Bartrum is a combat veteran with nearly thirty years of military experience in both active duty and as a reserve officer. He currently serves in the rank of Colonel as the Mobilization Assistant to the Commander Air Force Medical Operations Agency. He earned his B.A. from McKendree College, IL, and M.B.A. from Southern Illinois University in Edwardsville, IL, and a J.D. from George Mason University School of Law in Arlington, VA.
Stephen Censky of Missouri to be Deputy Secretary of Agriculture. Mr. Censky has served as the American Soybean Association's Chief Executive Officer for the past 21 years. The American Soybean Association is the national, not-for-profit trade association that represents United States soybean farmers on policy and trade. Mr. Censky began his career working as a legislative assistant for Senator Jim Abdnor (R-SD). Later he served in both the Reagan and George H. W. Bush Administrations at the U.S. Department of Agriculture, eventually serving as Administrator of the Foreign Agricultural Service where he was involved in running our Nation's export programs. Mr. Censky received his B.S. in Agriculture from South Dakota State University and his Postgraduate Diploma in Agriculture Science from the University of Melbourne, Australia. He grew up on a soybean, corn, and diversified livestock farm near Jackson, Minnesota. He and his wife Carmen reside in suburban St. Louis and have two daughters who are in college.
Kevin J. McIntyre of Virginia to be a Member of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, for the term expiring June 30, 2018, and an additional term expiring June 30, 2023, and upon confirmation, shall be designated Chairman. Mr. McIntyre is the co-leader of the global Energy Practice at the law firm Jones Day, where he has practiced law for most of his nearly 30-year legal career. A graduate of San Diego State University and Georgetown Law, Mr. McIntyre is a recognized leader in the United States energy regulatory arena, with an expansive Federal Energy Regulatory Commission practice representing clients in all industry sectors—natural gas, conventional electricity, oil, hydropower, wind power and other renewable resources, and energy marketing and trading. His work for energy clients spans administrative and appellate litigation, compliance and enforcement matters, and corporate transactions. Mr. McIntyre is active in energy industry, legal, and educational organizations, as well as in his local community. He lives in Arlington, Virginia, with his wife Jennifer and their three young children.
-------
President Donald J. Trump Announces Intent to Appoint Scott Pace to the National Space Council
Scott Pace of Virginia to be the Executive Secretary of the National Space Council. Over his career, Dr. Scott Pace has honed his expertise in the areas of science, space, and technology. Currently, he is the Director of the Space Policy Institute and Professor of the Practice of International Affairs at George Washington University. Dr. Pace also serves as the Vice-Chair of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration's (NOAA) Advisory Committee on Commercial Remote Sensing (ACCRES). Previously, he served at NASA, the White House Office of Science and Technology (OSTP), and the RAND Corporation's Science and Technology Policy Institute (STPI). During his career, Dr. Pace has received numerous rewards and recognitions including the NASA Outstanding Leadership Medal (2008), the U.S. Department of State's Group Superior Honor Award, GPS Interagency Team (2005), and the NASA Group Achievement Award, Columbia Accident Rapid Reaction Team (2004). Dr. Pace received his B.S. in Physics from Harvard Mudd College in 1980. Two years later, in 1982, he earned his Master in Aeronautics and Astronautics and Technology and Policy from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (1982). Finally, Dr. Pace attained his Doctorate in Policy Analysis from the RAND Graduate School in 1989.
  