
    Today, President Donald J. Trump announced his intent to nominate the following individual to a key position in his Administration:
Jovita Carranza, of Illinois, to be Administrator of the Small Business Administration.
Ms. Carranza currently serves as Treasurer of the United States and as a principal advisor to Secretary of the Treasury Steven Mnuchin for community economic development and engagement. Ms. Carranza previously served as Deputy Administrator for the United States Small Business Administration (SBA) after her appointment by President George W. Bush and unanimous confirmation by the United States Senate. While serving as Deputy Administrator of the SBA, Ms. Carranza led more than 80 field offices across the country and managed a portfolio of venture capital investments, business loans, and disaster loans totaling approximately $80 billion. Ms. Carranza has also had a distinguished career of more than 20 years at the United Parcel Service (UPS), where she was the highest-ranking Latina in the history of the company. Ms. Carranza started at UPS as a part-time, night-shift box handler and eventually became President of Operations for UPS Latin America and The Caribbean.—
Today, President Donald J. Trump announced his intent to appoint the following individuals to a key positions in his Administration:
Kendel S. Ehrlich, of Maryland, to be Deputy Director of the Office of National Drug Control Policy.
Ms. Ehrlich currently serves as the Associate Director of External Affairs at the White House Office of National Drug Control Policy (ONDCP). In her role, she manages the public appearances and media engagements for ONDCP Director Jim Carroll and helps to coordinate drug policy efforts. Previously, Ms. Ehrlich served as a public defender and a prosecutor in several counties in the State of Maryland. Ms. Ehrlich served as the First Lady of Maryland from 2003 to 2007, focusing on education and drug prevention efforts. Ms. Ehrlich earned her undergraduate degree from the University of Delaware and her Juris Doctor from the University of Baltimore.
David John Urban, of Florida, to be a Member of the Board of Visitors to the United States Military Academy for the remainder of a three-year term expiring December 30, 2021.
Guy C. Swan III, of Virginia, to be a Member of the Board of Visitors to the United States Military Academy for the remainder of a three-year term expiring December 30, 2021.
Sean Michael Spicer, of Virginia, to be a Member of the Board of Visitors to the United States Naval Academy for the remainder of a three-year term expiring December 30, 2021.
  