
    As a newcomer to LinkedIn and a recent entrant to the presidential race, I wanted to take this opportunity to build our network and share my views about issues that matter to all Americans — especially those active on LinkedIn. Specifically, where are the emerging opportunities in our economy, and how will we turn those opportunities into more full-time jobs and higher incomes for everyone who wants the opportunity to rise up?
These are issues I've been passionate about for decades, from my earliest days helping to run a commercial real estate firm in Miami. It was satisfying to start a business, create jobs, the experience kept me on my toes.
What I learned to do is keep my eyes open for new trends in the economy. I loved visiting my clients in their new spaces, seeing what they were doing to create value for customers and create jobs in their communities.
That's why today I am visiting a relatively new company called Thumbtack, which is connecting small businesses, providers and freelance contractors to households and consumers. This is a digital service that is helping small businesses compete for work and giving Americans more buying choices.
I love learning about these kinds of companies precisely because before they existed, their market didn't exist either. And in creating a new marketplace, they have created something that is valuable to their customers.
Now, these kinds of companies cause mental dissonance for people who think they can plan the future of the economy from Washington D.C. — people like Hillary Clinton. She gave a speech recently where she rejected some of the core elements of the shared economy. She sees these emerging companies as a threat to the established order.
Worse, she is doubling down on President Obama's economic ideas. She has no ambition to move our nation beyond the mediocre growth path we're on — a growth path which is so different from what our digital innovators and other entrepreneurial Americans can help deliver if we get the right policies in place.
We have to challenge the assumptions, regulations and laws that protect most of Washington from true digital disruption — and that means the liberal ideology which would squash so much innovation if it could.
Big government liberals fundamentally can't embrace digital innovation because it threatens the way they govern. They see car-sharing services as a threat to the local government taxi cab cartels. They see food trucks and Airbnb as a threat to urban planning and the tax and fee racket that they've imposed on brick and mortar restaurants and hotels. It's no wonder that under President Obama, they've chosen to regulate the Internet using a law from the 1930s. Regulation is all they know and they've been using the same playbook for decades.
I've got a different view on things, and a different approach. I don't mind disrupting the established order.
And in the coming months, I plan on making my views clear in this space and in speeches around the country. I want to lead this nation as we challenge the assumptions of our federal government. And I want to continue the transformation of our economy through technology and digital innovation.
Would love to hear your thoughts in the comments section on how we can best create an economy that gives more people the chance to achieve earned success.
  