
    On behalf of the American people, I welcome the cease-fire declared by the IRA on July 19. This declaration, which we expect to be implemented unequivocally and permanently, can open the door to inclusive negotiations to achieve a just and lasting settlement of the conflict in Northern Ireland, a settlement that will heal age-old divisions and create an environment in which both vibrant traditions can flourish and prosper.
This is a moment of great possibility. As Northern Ireland's political leaders begin to shape their future, I urge them to do so on the basis of the principles of fairness and compromise that underpin all democratic systems. These negotiations must be based on a commitment to bringing about positive change and respecting the eventual settlement, even though it will not fulfill all the desires of any one party or community. The negotiations must ensure equality, justice, and respect for both cultures. As I have said many times, such negotiations can only take place free from the shadow of the violence or the threat of violence. That is why we look to Sinn Fein, like the other parties participating in the talks, to give their full commitment to the Mitchell principles.
Many men and women have taken great risks to bring about a peaceful resolution of this conflict. I commend the leaders of Sinn Fein who have helped bring about the cease-fire, as I commend the loyalist leaders who have sought to maintain their own cease-fire through many difficult months. The possibilities opened by today's announcement are also a tribute to those political leaders who have steadfastly condemned violence and worked to forge a democratically negotiated settlement. I particularly appreciate the efforts of the Governments of Great Britain and Ireland, who have dedicated themselves to pursuing peace and a democratically negotiated settlement that will benefit all the people.
The United States will work closely with the two governments and the political parties to build on this historic opportunity. On the basis of this cease-fire, implemented unequivocally, my administration will work with Sinn Fein as with the other political parties. The United States will strongly support those who take the risks of principled compromise as they seek a peaceful and prosperous future for themselves and their children.
  