
    SANTA FE, NM -- Governor Bill Richardson's campaign momentum continued to rise today with the endorsements of eight distinguished former Members of Congress.
"These distinguished and influential former Members of Congress will help lead my campaign to victory," said Governor Richardson. "I was honored to serve with many of them when I was in Congress and I am honored to have them join my campaign for a stronger America."
Together, these former members of Congress represent a large and diverse swath of the country. Their service to society, both in the public and private sectors, is broad and extensive.
"Having represented Arizona in Congress, I know that Governor Richardson shares our Western values. He stands for fiscal responsibility, protection of our environment, and an aggressive move towards energy independence," said former Congressman and former Arizona Democratic Party Chair Sam Coppersmith of Arizona. "I am excited to help Governor Richardson win in Arizona and across the West."
"Not only does Governor Richardson have the strongest record on the issues and the boldest vision for the future, he can also win in every part of the country. In his last campaign, he earned almost seventy percent of the vote in the red state of New Mexico. People of all political stripes are attracted to his extraordinary record of public service and his common-sense vision of governance," said former Congressman Buddy Darden of Georgia. "I will work tirelessly to make sure that the great state of Georgia is with Bill Richardson."
"Governor Richardson is the strong, decisive leader that our country needs so badly. Of all the candidates, Richardson has the best combination of vision for getting us out of Iraq and turning around our public schools, with the experience and record of accomplishment to implement these important policies," said former Congressman Bob Carr of Michigan. "He knows how to bring people together to make real progress on the issues that count."
Please find a list of the former Members of Congress endorsing Governor Richardson today below:
Sam Coppersmith (D-AZ)
Elizabeth Furse (D-OR)
Ken Holland (D-SC)
Ronnie Flippo (D-AL)
Bill Hefner (D-NC)
Buddy Darden (D-GA)
Don Bonker (D-WA)
Bob Carr (D-MI)
  