
    Donald J. Trump for President., Inc. hosted 'The Right View' with Mick McHale, President of National Association of Police Organizations, Lara Trump, Trump 2020 Senior Advisor, Kimberly Guilfoyle, National Chair of Trump Victory Finance Committee, Mercedes Schlapp, Trump 2020 Senior Advisor for Strategic Communications, and Katrina Pierson, Trump 2020 Senior Advisor.
The participants discussed Joe Biden's embrace of the radical 'defund the police' movement and his abandonment of our nation's law enforcement officers. They explained how Joe Biden has become a Trojan horse for the far-left's socialist agenda, and condemned him for his inability to stand up to the liberal mob. While Joe Biden's campaign promises continue to veer more and more to the left, President Trump is standing strong in support of our police and law and order. The panel emphasized the need to re-elect President Trump in November to prevent a socialist takeover of our country, and encouraged all viewers to support the President and his re-election campaign.

CLICK HERE TO WATCH
"After years of supporting Democrats, the National Association of Police Organizations and its more than 245,000 members have endorsed President Trump because of his strong support for the law enforcement community," said Mick McHale, President of National Association of Police Organizations. "Joe Biden and the Democrat Party have turned their back on the men and women in blue. We must re-elect President Trump to maintain law and order in America."
"While our nation's heroic police officers put their lives on the line to keep our communities safe, Joe Biden has refused to stand up to the destructive, dangerous rioters who target law enforcement and vows to eviscerate police funding," said Lara Trump, Trump 2020 Senior Advisor. "Biden may not be able to stand up to the liberal mob and back the blue, but President Trump always will."
"In Joe Biden's America, rioters and looters would be protected while police officers and law-abiding citizens are slandered and attacked," said Kimberly Guilfoyle, National Chair of Trump Victory Finance Committee. "This is the most important election of our lifetime because if Joe Biden is elected, the leftist mob will run our country into the ground."
"Liberal leaders around the country have become so politically indoctrinated that they would rather see their cities burn than support President Trump's law and order agenda," said Mercedes Schlapp, Trump 2020 Senior Advisor for Strategic Communications. "We must re-elect President Trump because under Joe Biden, nobody would stand up to the leftist mob."
"Joe Biden's campaign strategy revolves around dodging questions and twisting the narrative, but voters see the truth: the radical Democrat base is celebrating the violence in our communities and does not care about the safety of the American people," said Katrina Pierson, Trump 2020 Senior Advisor. "The American people value safety and stability and will show their support for the President of law and order at the polls in November."
  