
    Pool Reports by Tyler Pager, The Washington Post 



Sent:
Reports:




July 14, 202211:08 IDT

Travel Pool Report #1: Awaiting POTUS arrival at Waldorf Astoria
Good morning from Jerusalem. Your pool tested for covid and was swept. We then walked over to the Waldorf Astoria, and we are awaiting POTUS arrival.
Below is the schedule for today. Reach out with any questions.
IDT
10:00 AM Out-of-Town Pool Call Time
11:15 AM The PRESIDENT participates in a bilateral meeting with Prime Minister Yair Lapid of IsraelWaldorf Astoria, Jerusalem, IsraelOut-of-Town Pool Spray
12:30 PM The PRESIDENT participates in the first Leaders meeting of the "I2U2" group with the Leaders of Israel, India, and the United Arab EmiratesWaldorf Astoria, Jerusalem, IsraelOut-of-Town Pool Spray
2:00 PM The PRESIDENT participates in a press conference with Prime Minister Yair Lapid of IsraelWaldorf Astoria, Jerusalem, IsraelOpen to Pre-Credentialed Media
4:45 PM The PRESIDENT meets with President Isaac Herzog of IsraelBeit HaNassi, Jerusalem, IsraelClosed Press
5:20 PM The PRESIDENT meets with Former Prime Minister Benjamin NetanyahuBeit HaNassi, Jerusalem, IsraelClosed Press
6:20 PM The PRESIDENT attends a reception hosted by President Isaac Herzog, where he will receive the Israeli Presidential Medal of HonorBeit HaNassi, Jerusalem, IsraelOut-of-Town Pool
7:45 PM The PRESIDENT greets with U.S. athletes and views the opening ceremonies of the Maccabiah GamesTeddy Stadium, Jerusalem, IsraelOut-of-Town Pool



July 14, 202211:15 IDT

Travel Pool Report #2: POTUS arrival
POTUS emerged from the elevator bank at the Waldorf Astoria at 11:12 p.m. and shook hands with Israeli Prime Minister Yair Lapid. The two then stopped and posed for photos. Pool was stationed behind a barricade so only had a partial view of the arrival. The two leaders then walked out of sight down the hallway.
We are headed into the bilat shortly.



July 14, 202211:46 IDT

Travel Pool Report #3: Bilat spray now at bottom of meeting
Pool has been holding in a hallway outside the meeting and has been advised the bilateral meeting is underway.
The pool spray is now expected to happen at the bottom of the meeting. The expanded bilateral meeting will occur after the spray.



July 14, 202212:10 IDT

Travel Pool Report #4: bilat spray
Pool was brought into the meeting at 11:56 a.m.
POTUS was seated on the left and Lapid on the right.
Lapid opened by joking that the two leaders only talked about American baseball.
POTUS added: "We talked about American baseball."
POTUS then gave brief remarks, saying they discussed how important it was for Israel to be integrated into the region and how devoted Biden and "the vast majority" of the American public was to Israel.
Lapid said he was "trying to build even more moderate coalitions in the Middle East." He also said he wanted to make sure there was no nuclear Iran.
Pool was ushered out at 11:59 a.m. as POTUS ignored shouted questions.
More quotes to come.



July 14, 202212:21 IDT

Travel Pool Report #5: more quotes from bilat + participants
Here are some more quotes but please check against the transcript as the leaders were difficult to hear.
POTUS: "We had a good beginning of a long, god willing, relationship"
"I talked about how important it was from my perspective for Israel to be totally integrated into the region."
"I think the vast majority of the American public, not just my administration, is completely devoted to Israel's security"
"We also talked about the fact that we have a full day ahead of us including the virtual summit."
Lapid said they discussed POTUS' trip to Saudi Arabia "which is extremely important to Israel."
"We discussed the Iranian threat... There will be no nuclear Iran. This is not only a threat to Israel, but to the world, and we discussed some other issues we are going to keep to ourselves."
Pool is holding ahead of the I2U2 Summit
From the White House:
Participating in the expanded bilateral meeting with the President and Prime Minister Yair Lapid of the State of Israel:
U.S. ManifestT.H. Antony Blinken, Secretary of StateT.H. Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security AffairsT.H. Thomas Nides, Ambassador of the United States to IsraelT.H. Kate Bedingfield, Assistant to the President and Director of CommunicationsT.H. Anne Neuberger, Deputy Assistant to the President and Deputy National Security Advisor for Cyber and Emerging TechnologyT.H. Brett McGurk, Deputy Assistant to the President and Coordinator for the Middle East and North AfricaMr. Amos Hochstein, Special Presidential CoordinatorT.H. Barbara Leaf, Assistant Secretary of State for Near Eastern AffairsMs. Suzy George, Chief of Staff, U.S. Department of StateMs. Cynthia Cook, Director for Israel and Palestinian Affairs, National Security Council
Israel ManifestH.E. Naftali Bennet, Alternate Prime MinisterDr. Eyal Hulata, National Security Advisor and Head of the NSCMr. Danny Vasli, Chief of StaffMr. Shalom Shlomo, Cabinet SecretaryMaj. Gen. Avi Gil, Military Secretary to the Prime MinisterMs. Gil Haushner, Senior Special AdvisorMr. Yair Zivan, Diplomatic AdviserMs. Livnat Dimon Avni, Chief of Staff for the National Security AdvisorMr. Alon Ushpiz, Director General of the Ministry of Foreign AffairsAmb. Michael Herzog, Ambassador of Israel to the United States



July 14, 202214:02 IDT

Travel Pool Report #6: I2U2 spray
Pool was brought in for the I2U2 spray at 1:35 p.m.
POTUS and PM Lapid were seated at a table side by side, facing two screens, one with the feed of Mohamed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, thepresident of the UAE, and the other with the feed of Narendra Modi, the prime minister of India.
Aides to Biden, including Secretary of State Tony Blinken and U.S. Ambassador to Israel Tom Nides, were seated off to the side.
The leaders spoke in the following order:
UAEIsraelUSAIndia
POTUS began his prepared remarks at 1:48 p.m.
"The simple truth is this: the challenges we face demand finding a new way of working together"
POTUS specifically listed climate change, food insecurity, health security and the economic fallout from the pandemic as priorities for the group.
"All these issues require cooperation and coordination," he said.
"At every step we should be asking what can we achieve together"
POTUS touted the quad's projects to address food insecurity and clean energy, calling them "urgent crises."
He also emphasized the importance of collaborating on infrastructure projects, saying there is a "vacuum" and the group plans to identify projects they can work together on.
POTUS concluded his remarks at 1:42, and the pool was ushered out of the room at 1:46 after Modi's remarks.
We are now holding ahead of the 2x2
From the WH:
The President is participating in the first Leaders meeting of the "I2U2" group with the following leaders:
In PersonH.E. Yair Lapid, Prime Minister of the State of Israel
VirtualPrime Minister Narendra Modi, IndiaSheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, President of the United Arab Emirates



July 14, 202214:33 IDT

Travel Pool Report #7: 2x2 starting shortly 
POTUS and PM Lapid entered at 2:31 p.m. The two leaders sat down at a desk to sign the joint declaration. Presser should start shortly.



July 14, 202214:50 IDT

Travel Pool Report #8: remarks conclude, press conference starting
PM Lapid gave prepared remarks followed by POTUS, who concluded his remarks at 2:49.
The two leaders will now take questions
A livestream is available on the White House website.



July 14, 202215:04 IDT

Travel Pool Report #9: presser concludes
The press conference concluded at 2:59 p.m. as POTUS and PM Lapid left the ballroom. The pool will not see POTUS' departure as we are walking back to the King David hotel.



July 14, 202216:44 IDT

Travel Pool Report #10: motorcade rolling to Israeli president’s residence
Motorcade started rolling from the King David Hotel at 4:33 pm
Pool was already loaded in the vans so did not see POTUS exit the hotel.



July 14, 202217:08 IDT

Travel Pool Report #11: Residence arrival
Motorcade arrived at the residence at 4:48.
POTUS, wearing aviators, exited the beast at 4:53. He removed his sunglasses and was greeted by the Israeli President, Isaac Herzog, and his wife, Michal.
POTUS put his hands on both of their shoulders as they embraced and chatted. Pool could not hear what the leaders said.
The three then walked down a red carpet as they were greeted by the Israeli Honor Guard and children holding Israeli and American flags. The three briefly stopped and posed for a photo with the children. POTUS leaned down at various points to say hi to the children.
POTUS then entered the residence and sat down at a table to sign a welcome book as Herzog stood next to him.
POTUS ignored a question about Iran and drones.
POTUS and Herzog then posed for a photo, shaking hands.
When asked what he wrote in the guest book, POTUS noted that Herzog's grandfather was the chief rabbi of Ireland and his father was born there. He called him the "Sin Fein Rabbi."
Herzog said, "It's a great day for the Irish."
The two leaders went into a closed press meeting at 5:03



July 14, 202217:36 IDT

Travel Pool Report #12: Photo of POTUS note
The White House passes along this photo of POTUS’ note in the guest book



July 14, 202217:47 IDT

Travel Pool Report #13: Netanyahu meeting underway
The White House shares that POTUS is currently meeting with former Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, the current leader of the opposition. The meeting is closed press, and there was no pool spray.
From the White House:
As is traditional for U.S. leaders, President Biden is meeting with opposition leader Benjamin Netanyahu. The two have worked together going back many years. This meeting highlights the unbreakable relationship between the U.S. and Israel.
Participating in the meeting with the President and former Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu:
U.S. ManifestT.H Antony Blinken, Secretary of StateT.H. Thomas Nides, Ambassador of the United States to the State of Israel
Israel ManifestFormer Israeli Ambassador to the U.S. Ron DermerTzachi Braverman, Chief of Staff to Former Prime Minister NetanyahuTopaz Luk, Chief of Media



July 14, 202218:08 IDT

Travel Pool Report #14: Israeli Presidential Medal of Honor Ceremony
Before POTUS took the stage, an announcement on the speakers said due to COVID protocols, guests were advised not to take photos with POTUS.
POTUS and Herzog exited the residence at 5:59 and walked down a red carpet to an outdoor stage with two lecterns.
Roughly 100 people are seated in the audience, including many of the top WH aides traveling with POTUS.
A livestream of the event is available on the White House website



July 14, 202218:12 IDT

Travel Pool Report #15: attendees at medal of honor ceremony
POTUS and Herzog both gave brief remarks.
POTUS said receiving the medal is one of the greatest honors of his life and then quoted Seamus Heaney.
POTUS is now receiving the medal.
From the WH:
The President is attending a reception hosted by President Isaac Herzog, where he will receive the Israeli Presidential Medal of Honor. Participants include:
T.H Antony Blinken, Secretary of StateT.H Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President & National Security AdvisorT.H. Thomas Nides, Ambassador of the United States to the State of IsraelT.H Anne Neuberger, Deputy Assistant to the President & Deputy National Security Advisor for Cyber and Emerging TechnologyT.H. Brett McGurk, Deputy Assistant to the President and Coordinator for the Middle East and North AfricaMr. Amos Hochstein, Special Presidential CoordinatorT.H. Barbara Leaf, Assistant Secretary of State for Near Eastern AffairsT.H. Deborah Lipstadt, Special Envoy to Monitor and Combat AntisemitismMs. Cynthia Cook, Director for Israel and Palestinian Affairs, National Security CouncilMr. Chanan Weissman, Liaison to the American Jewish Community, National Security CouncilU.S. and Israeli dignitariesLeaders of Jewish American organizationsVisiting delegation from New York City
Speaking program:President Isaac HerzogThe President



July 14, 202218:16 IDT

Travel Pool Report #16: details on POTUS meetings with Israeli leaders
From the White House:
Meeting with President Herzog: 5:05- 5:14 PM
Expanded meeting started at 5:16 PM
Meeting with opposition leader Netanyahu 5:29 PM - 5:50 PM



July 14, 202218:30 IDT

Travel Pool Report #17: departure from residence
After Herzog presented POTUS with the medal, the leaders sat down in chairs on the stage and two performers sang "Let It Be" in English and Hebrew.
POTUS and Herzog departed the stage at 6:18 and POTUS shook hands with guests as he left the ceremony.
Motorcade rolling to the King David hotel at 6:27.



July 14, 202218:42 IDT

Travel Pool Report #18: Holding at King David
Motorcade arrived at the King David Hotel at 6:37. Pool is holding here before departure to Maccabiah games.



July 14, 202219:47 IDT

Travel Pool Report #19: Rolling to Maccabiah Games
Motorcade started rolling from the King David at 7:46 p.m.
We are en route to Teddy Stadium where POTUS will greet U.S. athletes and attend the opening ceremonies



July 14, 202219:56 IDT

Travel Pool Report #20: Arrival at Teddy Stadium
Motorcade arrived at Teddy Stadium at 7:56 p.m.
Pool has been advised that service may be limited so apologies in advance for any delays in sending subsequent pool reports.



July 14, 202220:17 IDT

Travel Pool Report #21: POTUS greets US athletes
POTUS entered the underbelly of Teddy Stadium at 8:01 to cheers from US athletes.
POTUS shook hands with athletes and supporters who cheered "Joe" and "USA"
"I'm so damn proud of you," he said.
"You're not only great athletes … there's only one other outfit that draws more folks,"
He said if the Olympics. "You demonstrate to the world that we can do anything."
"You all think I'm kidding, I'm not kidding."
POTUS then told a story about playing football in college and asking a friend from Syracuse to help him get a walk-on NFL tryout. The friend said he could help get him a walk-on but his agent worried Biden wouldn't be able to walk off the field if he tried out.
"I got to get a hat, man," POTUS said.
He then put a USA hat after one person gave him their hat.
"Go get 'em guys," he said.
POTUS then took a knee and posed for a photos and led the athletes in singing happy birthday to one athlete named Abby.
POTUS moved out at 8:06 p.m and pool was ushered out.
Pool is holding in the stands, awaiting POTUS arrival.



July 14, 202220:36 IDT

Travel Pool Report #22: POTUS in stadium
POTUS, flanked by PM Lapid and President Herzog, walked into the stadium at 8:26. The three leaders stood behind a glass partition and waved to cheering fans as they were introduced.
POTUS entered holding a Team USA hat, which he later put on.
The three leaders departed at 8:30 just before the USA delegation entered the stadium.
Motorcade rolling back to the RON shortly.
From the White House:
The President is greeting with approximately 250 U.S. athletes attending the Maccabiah Games.
After, the President is greeting with the following officials at the opening ceremony of the Maccabiah Games:H.E. Isaac Herzog, President of the State of IsraelH.E. Yair Lapid, Prime Minister of the State of IsraelMoshe Lion, Mayor of JerusalemAmir Peled, Chairman off the Maccabiah GamesJack Terpins, President of the Maccabiah Games



July 14, 202221:05 IDT

Travel Pool Report #23: Arrival at RON/ lid
Motorcade arrived at the RON at 8:59 pm. A lid was called at 9:03.
Have a good night!




 
Pool Reports below by Nadia Bilbassy-Charters, Al Arabiya 



Sent:
Reports:




July 14, 202212:18 IDT

Foreign pool #1 meeting between POTUS and PM Lapid
Pool was taken to a fairly large room where both the President and the Isareli PM were sitting and chatting , Prime Minster Lapid was heard talking about Saudi's Arabia and Iran . On the first he talked about ( creating a moderate coalition) and on Iran he said that ( Iran will never get Nuclear weapons ) . He added that there are other issues to be discussed but not in public.
Pool is holding for the next event on the virtual summit.



July 14, 202213:59 IDT

Foreign pool #2 I2U2 summit
After much delay pool was usher around 1:35 pm .
The event is been carried live , I refer you to the speeches but here is some color :
Both POTUS and PM Lapid were sitting In front of a table facing two huge screens where Indian PM is speaking via one and the other is for Shiekh Mohamed Ben Zayed of the UAE .
The summit is set against a huge wall with the slogan of 12U2 signs with four flags representing the participating countries .
The US delegation is sitting in the front row included Secretary of State , US ambassador to Israel and two others .
There are a big group of journalists , security personal , and Israelis officials from the ministry of foreign affairs .
Order of speaking :Sheikh Mohamed Ben Zayed of the UAEIsrael PMPresident BidenPM of India
Each speaker had around 5 mins each .
Next event is the joint press conference which will be carried live.



July 14, 2022
[APP Note: Report #3 does not exist or was not received by the APP.]


July 14, 2022
[APP Note: Report #4 does not exist or was not received by the APP.]


July 14, 202217:52 IDT

Foreign pool #5
While waiting for the ceremony to start , White House press informed us that POTUS is meeting with former PM Netanyahu as he is the current leader of the opposition.
From the White House:
As is traditional for U.S. leaders, President Biden is meeting with opposition leader Benjamin Netanyahu. The two have worked together going back many years. This meeting highlights the unbreakable relationship between the U.S. and Israel.
Participating in the meeting with the President and former Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu:
U.S. ManifestT.H Antony Blinken, Secretary of StateT.H. Thomas Nides, Ambassador of the United States to the State of Israel
Israel ManifestFormer Israeli Ambassador to the U.S. Ron DermerTzachi Braverman, Chief of Staff to Former Prime Minister NetanyahuTopaz Luk, Chief of Media



July 14, 202219:15 IDT

Foreign pool #6
The ceremony started by announcements of the arrival of the President Herzong and President Biden . They both made a speech in front of around a 100 people among them two former Israeli ambassadors to the US , Dermer and Oren and the former foreign Minister Tzipi Livni.
In addition to the list provided by the a White House below , there were representatives of the Druze and Christian monitories sitting closer to the stage . The event was highlighted by two Isareli singers who switched easily from Hebrew to English in ( Let it Be ) All guests were told to hold on till POTUS and president Herzong excited on the sound of music .
We are loaded in vans and Pool is heading back to the King David hotel .
T.H Antony Blinken, Secretary of StateT.H Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President & National Security AdvisorT.H. Thomas Nides, Ambassador of the United States to the State of IsraelT.H Anne Neuberger, Deputy Assistant to the President & Deputy National Security Advisor for Cyber and Emerging TechnologyT.H. Brett McGurk, Deputy Assistant to the President and Coordinator for the Middle East and North AfricaMr. Amos Hochstein, Special Presidential CoordinatorT.H. Barbara Leaf, Assistant Secretary of State for Near Eastern AffairsT.H. Deborah Lipstadt, Special Envoy to Monitor and Combat AntisemitismMs. Cynthia Cook, Director for Israel and Palestinian Affairs, National Security CouncilMr. Chanan Weissman, Liaison to the American Jewish Community, National Security CouncilU.S. and Israeli dignitariesLeaders of Jewish American organizationsVisiting delegation from New York City




  