
    Las Vegas, NV -- Following Cory Booker's breakout performance during the first Democratic debate and his fourth swing through the Silver State, today Cory 2020 announced that over a dozen activists and community leaders in Nevada -- including AAPI business leaders and members of the grassroots Miracle Workers group -- have endorsed Cory for President of the United States.
"We are excited to earn the support of such respected community leaders and powerful activists," said Cory 2020 Nevada State Director Phil Kim. "Our campaign is focused on building grassroots support and infrastructure to be successful in the caucuses in February and earning the support from these leaders is a key part of our path to success."
Las Vegas Filipino Chamber of Commerce President Kate Recto: "From gun violence to criminal justice reform, Cory Booker is very articulate on why he is the candidate to beat Donald Trump. He speaks to the issues that matter to Nevada and I'm proud to support his campaign for president." Miracle Worker of Nevada and Clark County Activist Jennifer Webb-Cook: I believe in Cory Booker's outlook on the unity of America and its people. We all want to be treated equally and with respect. Clean air, a great education system for our youth, good health care for all of us, a solid pathway to immigration reform, a woman's right to make decisions concerning her own body, and a great economy are just a few of the issues he'll provide for Nevada and America once elected. What a better means of unifying America!"Miracle Worker of Nevada and Clark County Activist Sakina Turner: "I am proud to support Cory Booker. His leadership will strengthen our great democracy and guide America into a better tomorrow."Miracle Worker of Nevada and Clark County Activist Pat Stevens: "I am a proud supporter of the presidential candidate, Sen. Cory Booker. He speaks of equality and justice, "Justice for All." He believes love, love of family, love of community and love of our country. What we need now is someone to reunite all of the United States, bring this country together, and Cory Booker is that person."
The full list of Nevadans formally announcing their endorsement of Cory Booker today include:
Jennifer Webb-Cook, Miracle Worker, Community ActivistSakina Turner, Miracle Worker, Community ActivistPat Stevens, Miracle Worker, Community ActivistJo Beck, Miracle Worker, Former AAPIDC of Nevada Board Member, Grassroots Volunteer LeaderKate Recto, President, Las Vegas Filipino American Chamber of CommerceSharifa Wahab, President, Middle Eastern Chamber of CommerceRon Sumbang, Vice President, ECHO Adult Residential Care Providers of NevadaTraci Doyle Wilson, Retired Teacher and Super Volunteer Shannon Churchwell, Chair, United Black Democratic Caucus of Southern NevadaScotty Babb, Clark County Community Activist Judy Hoskins, Boulder City Community Activist Cat Brewer, Educator and Filmmaker Bliss Requa-Trautz, Immigration Activist and Community Organizer
Since launching his campaign, Cory Booker has visited the state four times as a candidate and held over 20 events in both northern and southern Nevada, including in Minden where he became the first candidate to go to rural Nevada and was one of the first candidates to participate in a virtual meet and greet with over 200 rural Nevadans.
  