
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
July 10
In the morning, the President traveled to Nashville, TN, where he visited the Vice President's mother, Pauline Gore, at the Vanderbilt University Medical Center. He returned to Washington, DC, in the afternoon.
In the evening, the President hosted a dinner for congressional leaders on the State Floor.
The White House announced that the President has invited Prime Minister P.J. Patterson of Jamaica for a working visit on September 13.
The President announced his intention to nominate Carl Spielvogel as a member of the Broadcasting Board of Governors for the International Bureau of Broadcasting.
July 11
The President announced his intention to nominate Joseph H. Neely to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.
July 12
The President declared a major disaster in West Virginia and ordered Federal funds to supplement State and local recovery efforts in communities struck by severe storms, heavy rain, and flash flooding on June 23-27.
The President announced his intention to nominate James Franklin Collins as Ambassador at Large and Special Adviser to the Secretary of State for the New Independent States of the Former Soviet Union.
The President announced his intention to nominate Joseph A. Presel for the rank of Ambassador during his tenure of service as Special Negotiator for Nagorno-Karabakh.
The President announced his intention to nominate Stanley Tuemler Escudero as Ambassador to Uzbekistan.
The President announced his intention to nominate Darcy E. Bradbury as Assistant Secretary for Financial Markets at the Department of the Treasury.
The President announced his intention to nominate Joe Scroggins, Jr., as Commissioner of the Federal Maritime Commission.
The President announced his intention to appoint the following individuals to be members of the National Commission on Crime Control and Prevention:
—Lee Fisher, Chair;
—Dennis Wayne Archer;
—Paul Helmke;
—Deborah Prothrow-Stith;
—Andrew J. Shookhoff; and
—Esta Soler.
July 13
In the morning, the President met with President Nicephore Soglo of Benin in the Oval Office. Following their meeting, the President hosted a working lunch for President Soglo in the Old Family Dining Room.
In the late afternoon, the President had a telephone conversation with President Jacques Chirac of France to discuss the situation in Bosnia.
In the evening, the President had a telephone conversation with Chancellor Helmut Kohl of Germany to discuss the situation in Bosnia. He and Hillary Clinton then attended a fundraiser at a private residence in Sandy Spring, MD.
The President announced his intention to nominate Michael Paul Dombeck as Director of the Bureau of Land Management at the Department of the Interior.
The President announced his intention to nominate Charles H. Twining as Ambassador to Cameroon.
July 14
In the morning, the President and Hillary Clinton went to the Central Intelligence Agency in Langley, VA, where they participated in a wreath-laying ceremony.
In the afternoon, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister John Major of the United Kingdom to discuss the situation in Bosnia.
The President announced his intention to nominate Greta Joy Dicus to serve as a Commissioner of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission.
The President announced his intention to nominate Donald S. Wasserman to the Federal Labor Relations Authority.
  