
    Harris wins endorsement from only Democrat elected county-wide in competitive Washoe County
Senator Kamala Harris' support in Nevada continues to grow following her standout performance at the first Democratic presidential debates in Miami, Florida with a new endorsement from Washoe County Recorder Kalie Work. Kalie is the first currently elected official in Washoe County to endorse in the Democratic presidential primary. She is also the only Democrat elected county-wide in the Silver State's second-largest county and the only swing county. A native Nevadan and alumna of the University of Nevada, Reno, Kalie joins a growing list of endorsers for Kamala Harris in Nevada, including Clark County Commissioner Justin Jones, State Senator Pat Spearman, former Henderson City Councilwoman Gerri Schroder, and former Clark County Democratic Party Chair Chris Miller.
"Over the past several months, I have truly been inspired by Senator Harris's groundbreaking candidacy," said Washoe County Recorder Kalie Work. "She has demonstrated time and time again that she is best equipped to find practical and compassionate solutions to the challenges we face. Kamala is smart and tough, and has the temperament and integrity to lead our country. As a fellow woman of color, I am honored to endorse Kamala and will do all that I can to ensure she wins the state caucus and is elected President of the United States. It's way past time we have a woman like Kamala Harris in the Oval Office."
As the Washoe County Recorder, Kalie advocates for the use of technology to make local government more efficient, secure, and user-friendly. Kalie holds a bachelor's degree from the University of Nevada, Reno and is completing her graduate degree in Management at Harvard University. Before becoming an elected official, Kalie worked in the private sector where she led teams in operations and finance compliance at Microsoft. Kalie is a member of the National Association of Counties and the International Association of Government Officials. She lives in Reno with her husband and daughter.
Full list of elected officials and community leaders in Nevada who have endorsed Kamala Harris:

State Senator Pat Spearman
Washoe County Recorder Kalie Work
Clark County Commissioner Justin Jones
Gerri Schroder, former Henderson City Councilwoman
Chris Miller, former Chair of the Clark County Democratic Party
Helen Foley, former Nevada State Senator
Rev. Leonard Jackson, African-American community leader
Rose McKinney James, clean energy leader
Tanya Flanagan, African-American community leader and fellow Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority, Inc. sister
Lesley Miller, former board member of Nevadans for Background Checks
Sanje Sedera, founder and former president of the Asian American & Pacific Islander Democratic Caucus of Clark County
Janet Serial, chair of the Black Caucus of Washoe County and fellow Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority, Inc. sister
Stephanie Pizzoferrato, public school teacher and gun violence survivor
Al B Sure, R&B singer
Jennifer Lopez, community advocate
LeVerne Kelly, African American Community Leader, member of Links Inc., and fellow Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority, Inc. sister
Nancy Ayala, attorney and small business owner
Brian Ayala, small business owner
Francisco Aguilar, community leader
Alex Dixon, former President of the Urban League Young Professionals

  