
    WASHINGTON, DC – Today, President Barack Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals for key administration posts:

Glyn Davies, United States Representative to the Vienna Office of the United Nations, with the rank of Ambassador and United States Representative to the International Atomic Energy Agency, with the rank of Ambassador
Jim R. Esquea, Assistant Secretary for Legislation, Department of Health and Human Services
Jonathan B. Jarvis, Director, National Park Service, Department of the Interior

President Obama said, "I am confident that this group of experienced individuals will help us tackle our most pressing challenges: achieving real health reform, keeping our country safe and strengthening the economy for the long-term. I look forward to working with them in the months and years ahead."
President Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals today:
Glyn Davies, Nominee for United States Representative to the Vienna Office of the United Nations, with the rank of Ambassador and United States Representative to the International Atomic Energy Agency, with the rank of Ambassador
Glyn Davies, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, served until June 2009 as Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary of State, Bureau of East Asian and Pacific Affairs. His prior assignments include: Acting Assistant Secretary, Bureau of Democracy, Human Rights and Labor; Deputy Assistant Secretary for European Affairs; Political Director for the U.S. Presidency of the G-8, with rank of ambassador; Deputy Chief of Mission, U.S. Embassy London; Executive Secretary of the National Security Council Staff; State Department Deputy Spokesman and Deputy Assistant Secretary for Public Affairs; and Director of the State Department Operations Center. Mr. Davies served as Deputy Political Counselor at the American Embassy in Paris and in the European Bureau's Office of European Security and Political Affairs, working primarily on NATO nuclear and disarmament issues. He was a Special Assistant to Secretary of State George Shultz and served his first five years in the Foreign Service at the American Consulate General in Melbourne, Australia and the American Embassy in Kinshasa, Zaire (now the Congo). Mr. Davies holds a Bachelor's degree from Georgetown University and a Master's degree from the National Defense University.
Jim R. Esquea, Nominee for Assistant Secretary for Legislation, Department of Health and Human Services
Jim Esquea is the analyst for Income Security and Medicaid for the Democratic staff of the Senate Budget Committee. He has been with the committee since 1999 and has covered issues ranging from veteran affairs and Justice programs to child welfare, Temporary Assistance for Needy Families, supplemental nutrition assistance, public housing, Medicaid, the Children's Health Insurance Program and other health programs. Before working for the Budget Committee, Mr. Esquea worked in the health division focusing on the Food and Drug Administration for the White House Office of Management and Budget from 1994 to 1999 under the Clinton Administration. He has a Bachelor of Arts Degree from Wesleyan University and a Master in Public Administration from Columbia University.
Jonathan B. Jarvis, Nominee for Director, National Park Service, Department of the Interior
Jon Jarvishas been an employee for the National Park Service for over 30 years. Most recently he has served as the Regional Director for the Pacific West Region. Mr. Jarvis is responsible for all National Park System units (54) and programs in Washington, Oregon, Idaho, California, Nevada, Hawaii and the Pacific Islands of Guam, Saipan and American Samoa. Additionally Mr. Jarvis oversees 3,000 employees with a $350 million annual budget. Prior to this, Mr. Jarvis was the Superintendent of Mount Rainier National Park in Ashford, Washington. He has also been the Superintendent of Craters of the Moon National Monument in Idaho where his position required close coordination with local ranchers, the BLM, rural communities surrounding the National Monument and the Department of Energy. He also served as the Superintendent of Wrangell-St Elias National Park & Preserve in Copper Center, Alaska which involved mining, aircraft, subsistence hunting & fishing rights, native villages as well as rural communities. Mr. Jarvis was the Chief of Natural and Cultural Resources: North Cascades National Park for over five years where he was the chief biologist of the 684,000 acre complex of two recreation areas and one national park.
  