
    Pool Reports by Laura Figueroa Hernandez, Newsday 



Sent:
Reports:




July 28, 2023 10:00

Intown Pool Report 1 — House Dems Gaggle
Good Morning from the sunny stakeout location:
White House Press Office advised that a group of House Democrats would come out to speak to reporters after meeting with WH infrastructure coordinator Mitch Landrieu
Rep. Steny Hoyer (D-Md.) was the first to speak, saying he was speaking as chair of the Regional Leadership Council, a group appointed by Dem Leader Hakeem Jeffries.
Hoyer said members of the council are working with each of their respective states on implementation of the infrastructure bill programs
"We met with Mitch Landrieu who is heading up the infrastructure implementation, which by the way, we now have 37,000 projects underway. As a result of the infrastructure bill passed just a little over a year ago. It's making a difference. The economy is reflecting that..."
Asked if now is the time for Biden to be taking a victory lap, Hoyer said it is the "time for continuing education. Time to get the work done to get people to work..."
Here is a link to Otter audio/transcript
https://otter.ai/u/QmJJPf_gLq0etfjFh7e6u88Rs-A
Here is a photo of all the lawmakers on hand
https://twitter.com/laura_figueroa/status/1684926410912071680?s=46&t=Li1gEnRRjUlNcgNfemSq-Q


July 28, 2023 10:33

Intown Pool Report 2 - Gathering
A bit delayed from initial pool call time of 10am. Pool is now gathered outside Palm Room doors. 


July 28, 2023 10:49

Pool Report 3 - Departure (no q's)
POTUS left Oval Office at 10:42am.
He did not respond to shouted questions before walking on to Marine One.
Marine one was wheels up at 10:48am 


July 28, 2023 10:53

In-town Pool Report 4 -- Travel List
From the WH Press Office
Traveling with the President aboard Marine One en route to Joint Base Andrews:
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff Natalie Quillian, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations Karine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press Secretary 


July 28, 2023 11:43

In-Town Pool Report 5 -- AF1 Gaggle @ 11:50a.m.
From the WH Press Office:
Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre will gaggle aboard Air Force One at 11:50am.
https://www.whitehouse.gov/live/ 




Pool Reports below by Joey Garrison, USA Today 



Sent:
Reports:




July 28, 202311:04

WH out-of-town pool report #1
Good morning,
I'm your out-of-town pool reporter today for President Biden's trip to Maine and then Delaware.
President Biden disembarked Marine One at 10:59 am ET.
Biden, wearing a navy suit, gave a brief wave gesture to reporters but did not come over to the press to take questions before saluting the military officers and then boarding Air Force One at 11 am. He did not answer a couple of shouted questions.
The pool is now on Air Force One awaiting departure.
The schedule remains unchanged — but the president is running behind schedule.
12:05 PM THE PRESIDENT departs Brunswick, Maine en route to Auburn, Maine Brunswick Executive Airport, Brunswick, Maine Open Press
12:20 PM THE PRESIDENT arrives in Auburn, Maine  Auburn-Lewiston Municipal Airport, Auburn, Maine  Out-of-Town Pool
12:45 PM Supplemental Pool Call Time  Stakeout Location
1:15 PM THE PRESIDENT discusses how Bidenomics is driving a manufacturing boom and helping workers and innovators invent and make more in America  Auburn Manufacturing Inc., Auburn, Maine  Open Press
2:15 PM THE PRESIDENT departs Auburn, Maine en route to Brunswick, Maine  Auburn-Lewiston Municipal Airport, Auburn, Maine  Out-of-Town Pool
2:30 PM THE PRESIDENT arrives at Brunswick, Maine  Brunswick Executive Airport, Brunswick, Maine  Out-of-Town Pool
4:00 PM THE PRESIDENT participates in a campaign reception Freeport, Maine  Restricted Out-of-Town Pool 
5:25 PM THE PRESIDENT departs Brunswick, Maine en route to Dover, Delaware Brunswick Air Force Station, Cumberland County, Maine Out-of-Town Pool
7:00 PM THE PRESIDENT departs Dover, Delaware en route to Rehoboth Beach, Delaware  Dover Air Force Base, Dover, Delaware  Out-of-Town Pool
7:30 PM THE PRESIDENT arrives in Rehoboth Beach, Delaware  Rehoboth Beach, Delaware  Supplemental Pool
Briefing Schedule
EDT
Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre will gaggle aboard Air Force One en route to Brunswick, Maine 


July 28, 2023 11:12

WH travel pool report #2 wheels up
We are wheels up at 11:10 am.
Karine Jean-Pierre will be gaggling later on the flight.
From the WH:
Greeting the President upon arrival at Joint Base Andrews:
Colonel Matthew Jones, Commander, 89th Airlift Wing
Traveling with the President aboard Air Force One en route to Brunswick Executive Airport:
Senator Angus King (ME) Rep. Chellie Pingree (ME-01) Rep. Jared Golden (ME-02) Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff Natalie Quillian, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations Karine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press Secretary Curtis Ried, Deputy Assistant to the President & NSC Chief of Staff & Executive Secretary Kristen Orthman, Deputy Assistant to the President & Principal Deputy Communications Director Travis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director Sheila Grant, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Presidential Speechwriter John McCarthy, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the Counselor to the President Alana Mounce, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of the Office of Political Strategy & Outreach 


July 28, 2023 12:42

WH travel pool report #3
Air Force One landed in Brunswick, ME at 12:14 pm. after an uneventful flight.
About 100 or so folks were on hand to watch the arrival. They seemed to be Biden supporters.
President Biden disembarked Air Force One — down the plane's longer set of stairs — at 12:31 pm. He waved as others aboard the plane followed him down.
He then walked to Marine One, which he boarded at 12:33 pm.
Biden did not take questions from reporters.
The president and pool are headed to Auburn Manufacturing Inc. in nearby Auburn, ME.
The pool, in an Osprey, lifted up at 12:39 pm. Your pooler did not see Marine One lift. 


July 28, 2023 12:46

WH travel pool report #4
From the WH:
Traveling with the President aboard Marine One en route to Auburn-Lewiston Municipal Airport:
Senator Angus King (ME) Rep. Chellie Pingree (ME-01) Rep. Jared Golden (ME-02) Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff 


July 28, 2023 13:02

WH travel pool report #5
President Biden arrived in Auburn, ME at 12:52 pm after a short flight on Marine One.
There was a sign posted outside the tiny airport that read, "Auburn, Maine welcomes U.S. President Joe Biden." The presidential seal is on one side of the sign and what appears to be the city's seal on the other.
Biden got off Marine One at 12:56 pm, shook hands and shared pleasantries with greeters on the runway and quickly entered The Beast after about three minutes.
From the WH:
Greeting the President upon arrival at Auburn-Lewiston Municipal Airport:
Governor Janet Mills (ME) Mayor Jason Levesque, Auburn, Maine Mayor Carl Sheline, Lewiston, Maine 


July 28, 2023 13:05

WH travel pool report #6 rolling
POTUS and motorcade are rolling to Auburn Manufacturing Inc. at 1:02 pm. 


July 28, 2023 13:19

WH travel pool report #7
Upon the motorcade pulling out of the airport, a man standing by himself was seen with an oversized posterboard that read, "Let's Go Brandon."
Later on the trip was a group of dozens of Biden supporters who waved at Biden's motorcade including one woman holding a sign that read, "I love Biden."
Another sign referenced "chocolate chip ice cream." Perhaps a reference to Biden's love of ice cream?
The pool arrived at Auburn Manufacturing Inc at 1:09 pm. Your pooler did not see POTUS and the motorcade arrive at the factory.
The pool is now seated inside a large warehouse-like at Auburn Manufacturing Inc room waiting for Biden to come to a small blue stage that is laid out.
A sign next to the lectern where Biden will speak reads "Bidenomics" and "Made in America." 


July 28, 2023 13:28

WH travel pool report #8
From the WH:
Participating in a photoline with the President at Auburn Manufacturing Plant:
Governor Janet Mills (ME) Senator Angus King (ME) Rep. Chellie Pingree (ME-01) Rep. Jared Golden (ME-02) Mayor Jason Levesque, Auburn, Maine Mayor Carl Sheline, Lewiston, Maine Senate President Troy Jackson, Maine Senate Speaker Rachel Talbot Ross, Maine House of Representatives 


July 28, 2023 13:39

WH travel pool report #9 2-min warning
2-minute warning for Biden's remarks in Auburn, ME.
The wireless network isn't working inside the warehouse — I had to step outside to send this pool report — so check the livestream at the usual spots for Biden's remarks.
Whitehouse.gov/live
There's large American and Maine flags to the left of where Biden will speak and a large American flag behind him. There is textile equipment and stacked wooden trays throughout the facility.
From the WH:
In attendance for the President's remarks on how Bidenomics is driving a manufacturing boom and helping workers and innovators invent and make more in America:
Governor Janet Mills (ME) Senator Angus King (ME) Rep. Chellie Pingree (ME-01) Rep. Jared Golden (ME-02) Mayor Jason Levesque, Auburn, Maine Kathie Leonard, CEO, Auburn Manufacturing Union leaders and members, Auburn manufacturing employees, and state, local, and Tribal elected officials 
Pre-Program Mayor Jason Levesque, Auburn, Maine Rep. Jared Golden (ME-02) Senator Angus King (ME) Governor Janet Mills (ME) 
Speaking Program Kathie Leonard, CEO, Auburn Manufacturing The President 


July 28, 2023 13:45

WH travel pool report #10 Biden speaking
President Biden took the stage and started speaking at 1:43 pm. 


July 28, 2023 14:17

WH travel pool report #11 Biden speech over
President Biden finished his speech, which hit on his efforts to boost domestic manufacturing, overhaul infrastructure and "Bidenomics," at 2:12 pm after about 29 minutes.
He then walked down to greet spectators in the front row.
A room of a couple hundred people sitting in white wooden folding chairs watched. It included employees of Auburn Manufacturing Inc. and some family members workers including children.
Big applause came as Biden said, "Made in America. Made in America."
He touted his executive order to "invent it here and make it here" and new procurement rules to buy American-made products.
"You see they don't think we have an environmental crisis," Biden said of Republicans who voted against his Inflation Reduction Act.
"Like I said in my State of the Union, I've seen them at the groundbreakings," Biden said of Republicans who voted against the IRA but have celebrated its projects in their states or districts. He singled out "the senator from Alabama," seemingly a reference to Sen. Tommy Tuberville.
He said the majority of IRA and infrastructure funds have gone to politically red areas.
"I'm not picking winners and losers based on who voted for me. I'm picking winners based on the needs they have." (Check this quote on transcript.)
Biden applauded Maine's governor for signing legislation to make her state "a leader in the offshore wind industry."
Biden: "I'm not here to declare victory on the economy. We have more work to do" 


July 28, 2023 14:24

WH travel pool report #12 Biden signs order
Biden finished his remarks, started shaking hands among spectators but then headed back to the podium because he forgot to sign the executive order on US manufacturing that was one of the focuses of the event.
Biden picked up the microphone.
"I forgot I didn't sign the order. All that talk and no action!"
Others then joined Biden on stage at a desk with the presidential seal as he signed the order. POTUS is now back to greeting and taking selfies with spectators. 


July 28, 2023 14:42

WH travel pool report #13 "maybe they'll decide to impeach me" joke
Biden shook hands and took selfies for about 15 mins. When he finished and began to depart he got a loud round of applause from the remaining spectators. Biden acknowledged them with a wave.
We are now rolling back to the Auburn airport.
Revisiting Biden's speech, he sarcastically brought up impeachment.
Full quote:
"We're growing faster. We're economically more advanced than every other major country in the world. It's down from 9% to 3%, and it's going to continue to go down. While there's more work ahead, earlier this week the Washington Post suggested, Republicans may have to find something else to criticize me for now that inflation is coming down. Maybe they'll decide to impeach me because it's coming down. I don't know. I'd love that one. Well anyway."
From WH:
President Biden will sign an Executive Order to prioritize America's policy of "invent it here, make it here"—to the benefit of American workers, communities, and global supply chain resilience.
On-Stage Participants Governor Janet Mills (ME) Senator Angus King (ME) Rep. Chellie Pingree (ME-01) Rep. Jared Golden (ME-02) Mayor Jason Levesque, Auburn, Maine Kathie Leonard, CEO, Auburn Manufacturing 


July 28, 2023 14:52

WH travel pool report #14
The pool is back on an Osprey, lifting up at 2:48 pm en route back to the Brunswick, ME airport.
Your pooler did not see Biden lift up on Marine One.
From WH:
Traveling with the President aboard Marine One en route to Brunswick Executive Airport:
Governor Janet Mills (ME) Senator Angus King (ME) Rep. Chellie Pingree (ME-01) Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff 


July 28, 2023 15:26

WH travel pool report #15 Patrick Dempsey spotted and rolling again
One add-on: Actor Patrick Dempsey from Grey's Anatomy was spotted among the crowd watching Biden's speech back at the warehouse.
Dempsey applauded during various parts of Biden's speech. He was sitting in the front row.
Your pooler's Osprey landed at the Brunswick airport at 2:58 pm after a short 10-minute flight.
Biden arrived at the airport on Marine One at 3:08 and quickly disembarked and transferred to the beast.
He did not address reporters.
The motorcade is now rolling to Freeport, ME for the fundraiser. 


July 28, 2023 17:40

WH travel pool report #16 fundraiser remarks and comments about Camp David meeting
The president's motorcade arrived outside a home in a rural part of Freeport, ME at 3:35 pm for the DNC fundraiser.
I will provide the name of the host in the next report.
Cell service is an issue here — hence, the delayed and long pool report. I've not had cell service for a couple of hours.
I will get right to the remarks first.
Biden started speaking to about 200 people packed in a barn behind the house at 4:23 pm. Two American flags on poles were behind him. He spoke for about 37 minutes until 5 pm.
The motorcade then rolled out of the house at 5:15 pm.
Gov. Janet Mills and Sen. Angus King were among the attendees. I also spotted former Domestic Policy Council director Brian Deese, who later told me he lives in the area now.
Biden said, "To all the kids here, I'm going to give you some money after this event to give to your parents to have them take you to Dairy Queen after this."
Biden said "one of the reasons I'm in politics is Ed Muskie." He told a story about Muskie, Ted Kennedy and others helped him out after his family's tragic car crash.
"It mattered. It mattered," Biden said.
He added. "I've always thought of Maine — it's going to sound crazy to say this — but as a virtuous place."
Biden said "there used to be civility" and that "we used to talk to each other," referring to Democrats and Republicans.
"I think of Maine like I used to think of my state, where everybody knows everybody"
Biden said "we're at a genuine inflection point in history," pointing to global warming and other issues.
Biden touted "real progress" on the economic front over the past years, signaling out declining inflation his efforts to boost domestic manufacturing and investments in infrastructure.
"I know I don't look it, but I've been doing this for a long time," Biden said, drawing laughs, before he discussed his philosophy to "build the economy from the middle out."
Biden said "you've seen what's happened here in Maine," referring to hallowed out manufacturing centers that his economic plans seek to reinvigorate. "It's the same thing all across the country." He then touted his administration's work to expand chips production.
Biden said members of a business roundtable asked him why he talks so much about unions.
"I said because you need them."
Biden told the crowd. "My generic point is simple: there is so much available to us. We just have to remember who in the lord's name we are."
Biden then pivoted to NATO and foreign affairs. "Does anybody think Europe was likely going to hold together if we didn't pull it together?"
Biden said he's hosting leaders of Japan and South Korea next week at Camp David. He didn't specify who he's meeting with or when exactly.
He said he got a call from the "head of Vietnam" who wants to meet with the US at the G20 and elevate the US as a "major partner along with Russia and China."
"The world is changing in a big way and we want to promote democracies. Democracies."
Biden said there's a "confluence of domestic, economic and foreign policy" that can make the US safer and more secure for years to come.
Biden finished his speech telling a story about his first day as president on Inauguration Day and the decisions behind his busts in the Oval Office such as RFK, MLK and Cesar Chavez.
"I've been there 600 years," Biden joked at one point.
"Obviously Trump wasn't there. He was the first outgoing president of the United States who didn't (show up for an inauguration.)" he added: "Classy guy. I was just as happy he didn't."
Biden also said he recently spoke to Sen. George Mitchell.
He said "Lula from Brazil" wants to meet soon over issues involving the Amazon and farming.
"Folks there's nothing we can't do," Biden said.
Biden then meandered to several topics.
Biden on AI: "If you think I'm exaggerating about being at an inflection point, look at AI — artificial intelligence. Hang on, baby. It has enormous promise but enormous possibilities for problems."
Biden as speech started going long said: "I believe this country's about to take off. And you're saying, when the hell is he going to take off?"
Biden brought up Rep. Marjorie Taylor Greene and how she's welcomed funding in her state that she opposed: "You've got the gentlewoman in Georgia. Talk about an oxymoron"
Biden brought up Sen. Tuberville: "He knew how to coach Alabama, I guess, but he doesn't know what he's doing now." (Tuberville actually coached at Auburn.)
More Biden: "We can't kid each other because democracy is at stake. Not a joke."
The family's white wooden house is tucked away a 100 yards or so from the main road. We are surrounded by lush trees and an open field. It's a beautiful setting outside.
We were holding in vans on the driveway of the house for about 30 mins before entering a barn-like air-conditioned structure behind the main house.
Along the way, the motorcade passed onlookers including Biden supporters waving and some holding signs.
We drove on a windy road flanked by spread out houses in a wooded, mostly rural area to get to the destination.
"Maine loves Joe," one sign, held by a woman, read.
A few miles later, a woman held a Biden-Harris campaign yard sign as she waved at the president.
A little girl on one corner waved an American flag. An older woman waved an LGBTQ rainbow flag on another.
A man by himself in a field held a sign that read, "Tough as nails Joe Biden." 


July 28, 2023 17:45

WH travel pool report #17 back at airport
Biden's motorcade arrived back at the Brunswick Airport at 5:42 pm.
Biden boarded Air Force One without addressing media.
A couple of hundred Biden supporters cheered and waved at the president as the motorcade pulled up.
On behalf of the Biden-Harris campaign:
President Biden's fundraiser today in Freeport, ME is hosted by Carol and Joe Wishcamper and is in support of the Biden Victory Fund.
Speaking Program Joe Wishcamper, CEO, Wishcamper Companies The President 


July 28, 2023 17:54

WH travel pool report #18 wheels up
We are wheels up on Air Force One at 5:53 pm en route to Dover, Del.


July 28, 2023 18:50

WH travel pool report #19
From WH:
Traveling with the President aboard Air Force One en route to Dover Air Force Base:
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff Natalie Quillian, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff Karine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press Secretary Curtis Ried, Deputy Assistant to the President & NSC Chief of Staff & Executive Secretary Kristen Orthman, Deputy Assistant to the President & Principal Deputy Communications Director Travis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director Sheila Grant, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Presidential Speechwriter John McCarthy, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the Counselor to the President Alana Mounce, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of the Office of Political Strategy & Outreach Rachel Chiu, Special Assistant to the President and Chief of Staff for the Office of Political Strategy & Outreach 


July 28, 2023 19:17

WH travel pool report #20
Air Force One landed in Dover at 6:54 pm.
President Biden disembarked the plane at 7:07 pm.
He did not address reporters and did not respond to a shouted question from a reporter about whether he planned to reach out to his 7th grandchild — who he recognized for the first time publicly two hours earlier.
Biden appeared to hear the question, shot a look toward the pool, and then turned the other direction to walk to the motorcade.
Biden is off to Rehoboth Beach. The pool is in the plane waiting to go back to Andrews Air Force base.
From WH:
Traveling with the President via motorcade en route to Rehoboth Beach:
Curtis Ried, Deputy Assistant to the President & NSC Chief of Staff & Executive Secretary 


July 28, 2023 19:55

WH travel pool report #21 signing off
The pool plane — after Air Force One was dead-headed — landed back at Andrews at 7:48 pm.
I'm signing off for the day.
One point of clarification: In pool report #20, my reference of Biden earlier publicly recognizing his seventh grandchild for the first time came in a People magazine story published at 5 pm. ET.
With that, I'm out.
Have a great weekend! 




Pool Reports below by Ken Thomas, The Wall Street Journal 



Sent:
Reports:




July 28, 2023 19:10

Supplemental Pool Report #1 - Dover
Greetings from Dover Air Force Base in Delaware.
Air Force One touched down at Dover AFB at 6:53 p.m. ET. President Biden disembarked from the plane at 7:07 p.m. ET.
Due to a bad weather call, he will be taking a motorcade to his residence in Rehoboth Beach, Del., where he will be staying over the next week. The supplemental pool has joined the motorcade and we are rolling at 7:08 p.m. ET.
Per the White House: Traveling with the President via motorcade en route to Rehoboth Beach:
Curtis Ried, Deputy Assistant to the President & NSC Chief of Staff & Executive Secretary 


July 28, 2023 20:06

Supplemental Pool Report #2 - Rehoboth Beach/Lid
President Biden's motorcade arrived at his neighborhood in Rehoboth Beach at 8:02 p.m. ET following a nearly hourlong along Delaware's Coastal Highway. It's now dusk. The pool spotted many motorists stopped in the opposite direction of the highway and people standing on sidewalks and in their doorways, documenting the passing motorcade with their iPhones.
The press van did not turn into the street leading to the president's house and we did not see him.
A lid has been declared. A special thanks to my co-pooler, Jonathan Lemire, who began his day at 3:15 a.m. ET.
Good night all. 



  