
    Two weeks ago, the Supreme Court issued a decision that overturned Roe v. Wade and eliminated a woman's Constitutional right to choose. This decision expressly took away a right from the American people that it had recognized for nearly 50 years - a woman's right to make her own reproductive health care decisions, free from government interference. Today, President Biden signed an Executive Order Protecting Access to Reproductive Health Care Services.
This Executive Order builds on the actions his Administration has already taken to defend reproductive rights by:

Safeguarding access to reproductive health care services, including abortion and contraception;
Protecting the privacy of patients and their access to accurate information;
Promoting the safety and security of patients, providers, and clinics; and
Coordinating the implementation of Federal efforts to protect reproductive rights and access to health care.

See below for what they are saying:
Elected Officials
Members of Congress - Senators 
Sen. Debbie Stabenow: "Thank you @POTUS for using your executive powers to do everything you can to protect our freedom to make our own reproductive health decisions. Ultimately, protecting our freedom will be decided at the ballot box. Until then, we need to do everything we can to limit the harm the Supreme Court decision is causing for women and families across our country. This Executive Order will: - Safeguard access to reproductive health care - Protect patient privacy & access to accurate information - Promote patients, providers, & clinics safety & security - Coordinate Federal efforts to protect reproductive rights & access to health care" [Tweet, 7.8.22]
Sen. Patty Murray: "After leading the charge in urging @POTUS to act boldly to protect abortion access, I'm glad to see him take further action today even with limited executive authority. These steps are good & important, but the post-Roe health care crisis is urgent. This fight is far from over." [Tweet, 7.8.22]
Sen. Tom Carper: "In the wake of a disastrous SCOTUS decision, we need an all-of-government approach to protect women's access to reproductive health care. @POTUS's action will help women get the care they need. But we in Congress need to do more-far more-to protect this constitutional right." [Tweet, 7.8.22]
Sen. Chris Coons: "Glad to see decisive action from @POTUS to protect access to reproductive health care. The American people have a right to privacy and bodily autonomy, and these steps will help safeguard women's health from gov't overreach. The fight continues to protect the right to choose." [Tweet, 7.8.22]
Sen. Elizabeth Warren: "@POTUS' executive order will help Americans receive the reproductive health care they need. I urged the Biden administration to expand access to medication abortion, protect patient privacy, and safeguard interstate travel for care. Today's actions are important first steps. The Administration should continue to explore every available option to protect access to abortion care. The overwhelming majority of Americans oppose this extremist Supreme Court's decision to overturn Roe v. Wade, and we must use every tool possible to address this emergency." [Tweet, 7.8.22]
Sen. Cortez Masto: "Today, @POTUS heeded my call to take executive action to safeguard access to reproductive care and protect women's data privacy. While these steps are important, more needs to be done to protect reproductive freedom, and I'll keep fighting for women and their families." [Tweet, 7.8.22]
Sen. Cory Booker: "This is an important step for safeguarding reproductive rights. We need to deploy every tool available to ensure Americans can continue to access the health care they need." [Tweet, 7.8.22]
Sen. Tammy Baldwin: "The Executive Order from @POTUS takes positive and important steps to protect access to reproductive health care services. Now, we all need to keep pushing forward to take back the rights and freedoms Republicans have taken away from women." [Tweet, 7.8.22]
Sen. Tammy Duckworth: "Since the Supreme Court cruelly overturned Roe, people across the country have been crying out for action. I'm glad @POTUS answered my call for an EO and took this first step to reaffirm the right to choose for every American. Now it's time Congress acts to codify this right." [Tweet, 7.8.22]
Sen. Diane Feinstein: "I'm glad President Biden has heeded the call of Senate Democrats to issue an executive order to help protect access to abortion. Now Congress must take decisive action to codify reproductive rights by passing the Women's Health Protection Act." [Tweet, 7.8.22]
Sen. Maggie Hassan: "By overturning Roe, the Supreme Court took away a woman's autonomy and ability to make her own health care decisions. The administration's actions announced today are welcome steps to mitigate the impact of this decision. We also know that in the aftermath of the decision, Mitch McConnell and anti-choice extremists' ultimate objective is to ban abortion nationwide - we must hold the line against this and keep fighting to protect a woman's fundamental freedom." [Statement, 7.8.22]
Sen. John Hickenlooper: "Thank you @POTUS for taking steps to protect women and their doctors." [Tweet, 7.8.22]
Senator Ben Ray Lujan: "I'm grateful that @POTUS has taken federal action to protect women's healthcare decisions post Roe overturn. But the Senate still needs to take action to codify Roe into law. And that means abolishing the filibuster. We have to act now." [Tweet, 7.8.22]
Sen. Ed Markey: ".@POTUS's actions, including directing the FTC to safeguard the privacy of individuals seeking an abortion, are an important step in the fight to protect essential abortion rights. Now, Congress must go further to abolish the filibuster and codify Roe." [Tweet, 7.8.22]
Sen. Alex Padilla: "This is a necessary step toward protecting reproductive rights across the country. The fight is far from over - I'll continue to work with the Biden administration to ensure people have access to safe abortion care nationwide." [Tweet, 7.8.22]
Sen. Gary Peters: "This is welcome action from @POTUS - but there's no question the fight to protect critical health care for women is far from over. It's clear Republicans want to impose further bans to abortion access and more cruel restrictions at every level of government-even in cases of rape, incest and when the life of the mother is at risk. Congress must step up - and I will always fight in the Senate to ensure access to vital health care and to keep the government from interfering in a woman's right to make health care decisions with her doctor." [Tweet, 7.8.22]
Sen. Jacky Rosen: "In the wake of Roe v. Wade being overturned, a group of my colleagues and I urged @POTUS to take action to protect a woman's right to choose. Today's Executive Order is welcome news, and we will keep pushing for action in every way we can to protect reproductive rights." [Tweet, 7.8.22]
Sen. Jeanne Shaheen: "These are important steps to help preserve access to abortion & repro services in the wake of the devastating Roe reversal. Decisions around health & bodily autonomy belong to patients - not jurists or politicians. I'll keep fighting to secure access to life-saving health care." [Tweet, 7/8/2022]
Sen. Tina Smith: "Let's be clear: extremist Republicans gutted Americans' reproductive freedoms, but Democrats are fighting to restore them. These are critical steps that will help protect abortion access." [Tweet, 7.8.22]
Sen. Reverend Raphael Warnock: "After pushing the @WhiteHouse to protect women's reproductive health, I'm glad @POTUS is listening to the American people & taking much-needed action. But we have more to do." [Tweet, 7.8.22]
Sen. Sheldon Whitehouse: "I'm glad to see President Biden sign an executive order to bolster reproductive rights as women face the dangerous consequences of the Supreme Court's extreme decision to overturn Roe. We must keep fighting by every means we can." [Tweet, 7.8.22]
Members of Congress - House Members
Speaker Nancy Pelosi: "President Biden's executive order today helps advance Democrats' fight to defend Americans' health freedom from all-out assault by right-wing extremists. This action will take steps to uphold a woman's right to make her own health decisions: protecting access to FDA-approved medication abortion, strengthening enforcement of the Affordable Care Act's contraceptive protections and defending the legal rights of both patients and providers. "Our pro-choice Democratic House Majority continues to prepare additional legislative action to respond to the Supreme Court's appalling decision to rip away women's reproductive rights. Next week, we will again pass the Women's Health Protection Act: landmark legislation enshrining the protections of Roe v. Wade into federal law. We will also pass legislation addressing the GOP's disturbing threats to restrict Americans' freedom to travel - reaffirming the Constitutional right to seek care freely and voluntarily throughout the country. "We have a sacred, fundamental duty to expand freedom in America, not to roll back fundamental rights. While Republicans seek to criminalize reproductive health care nationwide, House Democrats will never relent in our fight to defend freedom for women and for every American." [Statement, 7.8.22]
House Majority Leader Steny Hoyer: "Today's executive order shows that the American people have a President who takes swift action to protect women's reproductive choice. While this executive order is important and will help women access reproductive health care where they need it and maintain privacy, in truth there is very little that the President can do on his own to address the dangers posed by the Supreme Court's ruling in Dobbs v. Jackson. It is up to Congress to take meaningful action by enacting laws that guarantee reproductive freedom in all states and territories of our union. That's what the House did when we passed the Women's Health Protection Act last year - and we will do so again next week with an updated version of that bill. I will also bring to the House Floor next week the Ensuring Access to Abortion Act, to make it possible and safe for women needing abortion care to travel to states where it is accessible. I urge the Senate to act without delay and join the House in taking action to protect women's reproductive choice in the wake of the extremist and precedent-ignoring Dobbs v. Jackson ruling." [Statement, 7.8.22]
Rep. Katherine Clark: "As Congress works to protect abortion long-term, @POTUS is protecting patients right now. Today's EO will: -Safeguard access to reproductive health care -Protect the safety & privacy of patients, providers & clinics -Coordinate federal efforts to protect abortion" [Tweet, 7.8.22]
Rep. Carolyn B. Maloney: "In this critical moment, I applaud President Biden for issuing today's Executive Order, which protects abortion access and underscores Democrats' commitment to fighting back against the anti-abortion and anti-freedom agenda being pursued by Republican-appointed members of the Supreme Court. I am proud that the Executive Order advances efforts that the Oversight Committee has championed, including expanding access to medication abortion and protecting access to contraceptives. "Next week, my Committee is holding a hearing to tell the story of what overturning Roe means for people across America-especially the most vulnerable among us. I've spent years in Congress advocating for equitable access to reproductive health care, and the Oversight Committee will not stop fighting until everyone can access the care they need when they need it." [Statement, 7.8.22]
Rep. Jerry Nadler: "We must do everything in our power to ensure that all Americans can safely access abortion care. I applaud @POTUS for taking crucial steps to protect abortion access, ensure patient privacy, and defend those providing abortion services." [Tweet, 7.8.22]
Rep. Mark Takano: "By signing this executive order, President Biden has taken a significant step in defending reproductive rights and protecting access to safe and legal abortion, but this is only the beginning. Congress must codify Roe." [Tweet, 7.8.22]
Rep. Pete Aguilar: "President Biden's Executive Order will: -Protect access to medication abortion -Ensure emergency medical care -Protect access to birth control I support @POTUS's efforts to protect reproductive rights. It's time for the Senate to do their job and codify Roe v. Wade into law." [Tweet, 7.8.22]
Rep. Adam Smith: "Today @POTUS announced actions he's taking to protect access to reproductive health care in the wake of the Supreme Court's dangerous decision to overturn Roe v. Wade. The President directed @SecBecerra to protect access to medication abortion, ensure emergency medical care, protect access to contraception, and unite lawyers across the country to defend the rights of people seeking reproductive health care in areas that have banned abortion. The Executive Order will also protect consumer privacy, personal data, and sensitive health information and importantly will advance the safety of providers and clinics who are courageously providing essential reproductive health care services in the face of heightened risk. These actions are a step in the right direction, but they are not enough on their own. We must codify Roe v. Wade into law, and to do so, we must be willing to scrap the filibuster - our freedoms are so much more important than Senate procedure." [Tweet, 7.8.22]
Rep. Kathy Castor: "Thank you @POTUS for taking action today to protect reproductive decisions through executive action since Senate Republicans refuse to act." [Tweet, 7.8.22]
Rep. Raul M. Grijalva: "I support this executive order and once again call on my Senate colleagues to stand with the majority of Americans in protecting abortion rights now!" [Tweet, 7.8.22]
Rep. Judy Chu: "This is a step forward as we continue to navigate a post-Roe world-however, with Republicans working endlessly to pave a way for a federal abortion ban, this is not enough. Congress must take immediate action to enshrine abortion rights into law." [Tweet, 7.8.22]
Rep. Lois Frankel: "In the face of the biggest dismantling of women's rights in half a century, I commend and thank President Biden for his commitment to protecting reproductive freedom and access to abortion," said Rep. Frankel. "The President's order will protect the right to travel freely, safeguard patients' privacy, promote the safety and security of patients, providers, and clinics, and the ability to obtain approved medication. It is a critical step in fighting back to ensure everyone has the freedom to make decisions about their own reproductive health, regardless of their income or zip code." [Statement, 7.8.22]
Rep. Colin Allred: "We must do all we can to protect abortion access for Texas women. @POTUS' executive order directing @HHSGov to protect reproductive health services is a good step, and I'll keep fighting in Congress to ensure Texas women can get the health care they need." [Tweet, 7.8.22]
Rep. Cindy Axne: "While I'm pleased to see @POTUS taking action to protect access to abortion and other reproductive health care services, there's much more to be done. We need to meet this moment and codify Roe v. Wade." [Tweet, 7.8.22]
Rep. Ami Bera: "The actions taken today by @POTUS are an important step in defending reproductive health care in the wake of the Supreme Court's decision to overturn Roe. Now, the Senate must pass the Women's Health Protection Act to codify reproductive rights." [Tweet, 7.8.22]
Rep. Lisa Blunt Rochester: "@POTUS is right - the extremist Supreme Court does not know the power American women hold. We will turn out and we will continue to fight back against attacks on women's reproductive rights." [Tweet, 7.8.22]
Rep. Shontel Brown: "Now more than ever, it is essential that we support and protect women's safety and privacy- especially those coming from our most vulnerable communities -with access to safe resources and reliable information. This executive order from @POTUS is crucial." [Tweet, 7.8.22]
Rep. Cori Bush: "I'm glad @POTUS heeded our call for executive action to protect reproductive freedom, including expanding access to medication abortion, family planning, emergency care, and contraception, and a commitment to protecting the right to travel. These are important first steps. There is so much more that the President and Congress can and must do right now, starting with declaring a public health emergency, preempting state law to protect access to FDA-approved medication abortion pills, and eliminating the filibuster to codify Roe." [Tweet, 7.8.22]
Rep. Cheri Bustos: "Everyone should have the freedom to decide what is best for themselves and their families. I applaud @POTUS for taking this step in safeguarding access to reproductive care services to protect ALL Americans." [Tweet, 7.8.22]
Rep. Salud Carbajal: "Thank you @POTUS for taking action today to protect access to reproductive health care. I will continue fighting in Congress to #CodifyRoe and protect women's fundamental and Constitutional rights, including patient privacy & safe access to contraception." [Tweet, 7.8.22]
Rep. Sean Casten: "Thank you, @POTUS, for signing an executive order to protect access to reproductive health care. This will give immediate relief to women who are disproportionately harmed by the SCOTUS decision. Now, the Senate must legislatively enshrine abortion rights." [Tweet, 7.8.22]
Rep. Yvette Clarke: "Thank you, Mr. President. And now, we must codify Roe - so no woman ever knows these awful fears again." [Tweet, 7.8.22]
Rep. Emanuel Cleaver: "Recent polling shows that the majority of Americans disapprove of the overturning of Roe v. Wade. I am proud to see @POTUS take necessary action to protect reproductive freedom and the fundamental right to bodily autonomy. The days following SCOTUS' harrowing decision not only turned back the clock on women's rights, it set us on a trajectory that has monumental implications for many Americans. POTUS' executive action aims to protect access to critical aspects of healthcare and privacy. Reproductive rights are human rights that we must fight to protect and preserve, which is why we must codify Roe v. Wade into federal law." [Tweet, 7.8.22]
Rep. Steve Cohen: "President Biden is signing an Executive Order designed to safeguard access to abortion and protect women from states trying to criminalize their health care. It's an important step, but the Senate must end the filibuster to protect the right to abortion." [Tweet, 7.8.22]
Rep. Diana DeGette: "These are important steps to help millions of women, but there is still so much more that needs to be done. We need the Senate to act. They need to end the filibuster and make Roe v. Wade the law of our land once again. And they need to do it today!" [Tweet, 7.8.22]
Rep. Mark DeSaulnier: "Thank you @POTUS for taking these critical first steps to protect abortion access. Now we need a Senate that will act to protect reproductive freedom the way Democrats in the House already have." [Tweet, 7.8.22]
Rep. Mike Doyle: "I support @POTUS's executive order directing @HHSGov to protect women's access to contraception, patient privacy, & emergency care. These steps support a woman's right to choose & fight against extreme abortion restrictions." [Tweet, 7.8.22]
Rep. Veronica Escobar: "Abortion is healthcare. This executive order is a step toward a future where everyone-no matter who they are and where they're from-is free to make the personal health decisions that are best for themselves, their lives, and their families, without political interference." [Tweet, 7.8.22]
Rep. Adriano Espaillat: "I commend @POTUS for taking action to protect abortion & contraception access which @CongresswomanSC, & I called for in H.Res.1218 along with more than 50 colleagues. We must continue to fight for reproductive freedom in the U.S. #AbortionIsHealthcare #ReproductiveRights" [Tweet, 7.8.22]
Rep. Bill Foster: "I applaud @potus for taking aggressive action to protect access to reproductive health care and abortion rights. Now, the Senate needs to take up the House-passed Women's Health Protection Act." [Tweet, 7.8.22]
Rep. Ruben Gallego: "Today @POTUS announced an Executive Order to protect the rights of women. The Order: -Protects access to medication abortion and contraception -Protects the right to emergency care Protects privacy and health information Now the Senate must act to codify Roe v. Wade." [Tweet, 7.8.22]
Rep. Sylvia Garcia: "While Republicans want to control women and their personal decisions with a draconian nationwide ban on abortion, @POTUS is fighting to expand and protect access to reproductive health care with his executive order. Thank you for standing alongside women, President Biden." [Tweet, 7.8.22]
Rep. Brian Higgins: "Today @POTUS will sign an Executive Order that protects safe & secure reproductive care for millions of people in our country. After SCOTUS dismantled the important precedent set by Roe v Wade, we must continue fighting to defend reproductive rights for all." [Tweet, 7.8.22]
Rep. Jared Huffman: "I'm happy to see this announcement from @POTUS, but our work is far from over. Reproductive health care-and countless other rights-are under attack from the alt-right SCOTUS, and we must do everything in our power to fight back." [Tweet, 7.8.22]
Rep. Sara Jacobs: I'm encouraged by @POTUS' Executive Order to protect reproductive privacy. Now it's time for Congress to act. We MUST pass legislation that protects access to reproductive health care without putting our most personal and sensitive data at risk. We must pass the #MyBodyMyDataAct [Tweet, 7.8.22]
Rep. Pramila Jayapal: "Thank you @POTUS for working to protect the rights of pregnant people across this country. Now it's time for the Senate to step up and act to codify Roe." [Tweet, 7.8.22]
Rep. Mondaire Jones: "In the wake of this rogue Supreme Court waging war on the right to an abortion, I'm proud to see @POTUS tap into the fight to protect abortion care. Congress must take action. We need to codify Roe." [Tweet, 7.8.22]
Rep. Ro Khanna: ".@POTUS's Executive Order to protect reproductive health care & abortion is an important step in fighting back against the attacks by six extremist Supreme Court justices on the rights of women. Now, let's abolish the filibuster to codify Roe & pass my SCOTUS term limits bill. [Tweet, 7.8.22]
Rep. Raja Krishnamoorthi: "I'm glad to see @POTUS is taking action to protect access to reproductive care and medication, but my colleagues and I in Congress must do more to defend reproductive freedom." [Tweet, 7.8.22]
Rep. Ann McLane Kuster: "I appreciate @POTUS taking steps to protect access to abortion & reproductive health care in the wake of SCOTUS's egregious ruling overturning Roe. Congress must put the protections enshrined by Roe into law & ensure women can access the care they need." [Tweet, 7.8.22]
Rep. Andy Levin: "I'm pleased to see @POTUS stepping up to protect access to abortion. We cannot stop until we ensure every single person who needs or wants an abortion has the right to do so." [Tweet, 7.8.22]
Rep. Mike Levin: "Everyone deserves to decide what to do with their body and get the care they need. Today, @POTUS signed an Executive Order protecting access to vital reproductive health care services and the right to privacy." [Tweet, 7.8.22]
Rep. Tom Malinowski: "Since SCOTUS' decision, GOP governors and state legislatures have been imposing extreme laws, banning a woman's right to choose. @POTUS' executive order upholds an American's right to make their own health decisions, without political interference." [Tweet, 7.8.22]
Rep. Betty McCollum: "POTUS signed an executive order today safeguarding access to medication abortion & Plan B, protecting data privacy, & coordinating federal efforts to protect reproductive rights. More is needed - we must #CodifyRoe - but I'm glad to see @POTUS taking action to stand up for women." [Tweet, 7/8/2022]
Rep. Donald McEachin: "I am grateful for @POTUS's efforts to safeguard reproductive health care in the wake of the Supreme Court's decision overturning Roe. This is a meaningful step, but our work is not done. The Senate needs to take immediate action on the Women's Health Protection Act." [Tweet, 7.8.22]
Rep. Chellie Pingree: "@HouseDemocrats did their job to codify Roe by passing the #WHPA. @POTUS's Executive Order today was urgently needed, but next, we must: Abolish the filibuster Expand the Court End partisan gerrymandering And eliminate the undemocratic electoral college" [Tweet, 7.8.22]
Rep. Ayanna Pressley: "These much-needed actions will help folks get the abortion care they need. TY @POTUS for heeding our calls to expand access to medication abortion & support those traveling for care. Now let's build on this & declare a public health emergency. Everything must be on the table." [Tweet, 7.8.22]
Rep. Deborah Ross: "President Biden is right. We will fight these extreme attacks on our rights, and we will use every tool at our disposal to safeguard access to abortion. I'm glad @POTUS is taking action to protect women and health care providers. We can & must do more." [Tweet, 7.8.22]
Rep. Haley Stevens: "Thank you, @POTUS for taking steps to protect abortion access. Now Congress must act. It's time to #EndTheFilibuster and enshrine the right to abortion care into law." [Tweet, 7.8.22]
Rep. David Trone: "We must ensure that women have the right to make personal decisions about their own health care and futures. Thank you @POTUS, for taking this crucial step toward protecting reproductive freedom across the nation. Let's keep fighting." [Tweet, 7.8.22]
Rep. Marc Veasey: "Thank you, @POTUS, for signing an executive order to protect reproductive freedoms. Congress must follow your lead by codifying Roe v. Wade to protect essential health care and the right to choose." [Tweet, 7.8.22]
Rep. Nikema Williams: "Today, @POTUS signed an executive order preserving access to abortion and contraception, defending patient privacy & protecting clinic safety - all immediate priorities for women who are disproportionately harmed by tearing down abortion rights. It's time for the Senate to step up and pass the Women's Health Protection Act to protect equal access to safe, legal abortion for EVERYONE in EVERY ZIP code." [Tweet, 7.8.22]
Governors 
California Governor Newsom: "Thank you @POTUS for fighting to protect the right to choose!" [Tweet, 7/8/22]
Illinois Governor JB Pritzker: "Thank you @POTUS for taking this action to protect women's rights. We must do everything to protect access to reproductive health, the right to privacy, and the freedom of all." [Tweet, 7/8/22]
New Jersey Governor Phil Murphy: "President Biden's action today builds upon the work we continue to do in New Jersey to ensure and secure every woman's access to abortion and reproductive health care services. The President is correct that Congress must act to codify the rights protected for fifty years by Roe in federal law, but absent that action it is up to the states to protect women through our laws and the federal government, as it can through this order, to ensure access and privacy. New Jersey has enshrined the right to seek an abortion in state law, and I just signed new laws to protect any woman who comes to our state seeking abortion care, and also her doctor, from punitive actions by her home state. I am proud to have President Biden standing shoulder-to-shoulder with us in this fight." [Press Release, 7/8/22]
New Jersey Lt. Governor Sheila Oliver: "Thank you @GovMurphy and @POTUS for working together to help ensure women have access to reproductive health in America." [Tweet, 7/8/22]
North Carolina Governor Roy Cooper: "President Biden's Executive Order is another strong step in the effort to protect access to reproductive health care across the country. Here in North Carolina, I will never back down when women's health is on the line. - RC" [Tweet, 7/8/22]
Pennsylvania Governor Tom Wolf: "Thank you @POTUS for prioritizing the health and safety of women and birthing people. I will continue to veto any attacks on reproductive health care that reach my desk here in Pennsylvania." [Tweet, 7/8/22]
Washington Governor Jay Inslee: "Every action to protect abortion access matters. Thanks to @POTUS for keeping the offense going. Congress and states must do their part too." [Tweet, 7/8/22]
Mayors
Denver Mayor Michael B. Hancock: "I applaud the @POTUS executive order protecting access to reproductive healthcare services for all." [Tweet, 7/8/2022]
New York City Mayor Eric Adams: "Thank you, @POTUS! Reproductive rights are under assault and we need to use every tool at our disposal to fight back. Now, it's time for Congress to codify the right to access an abortion into federal law." [Tweet, 7/8/2022]
Oakland Mayor Libby Schaaf: "Thank you President @JoeBiden and @VP @KamalaHarris for taking action to support reproductive rights after the terrible Supreme Court decision. These executive orders will make a difference to women and girls in need of health care." [Tweet, 7/8/2022]
Philadelphia Mayor Jim Kenney: "Thankful that @POTUS is taking steps to protect access to reproductive health care services. SCOTUS's ruling will disproportionately affect people of color, low-income residents, and rural Americans. This fight is not over. Get involved here in Philly: https://t.co/CvCYakI6HG." [Tweet, 7/8/2022]
Richmond Mayor Levar Stoney: "Earlier this week, @CityRichmondVA declared that we support the right to abortion in VA. Today, @POTUS declared that abortion will be protected nationwide - no matter where you live. We stand with @POTUS to provide safe and affordable reproductive healthcare in Richmond!" [Tweet, 7/8/22]
Tucson Mayor Regina Romero: "Thank you @POTUS for fighting to protect women's Constitutional right to bodily autonomy. Among its safeguards, today's executive action protects: -Access to medication abortion -Access to contraception -Patient health information [Tweet, 7/8/2022]
New York City Mayor Eric Adams: "Thank you, @POTUS! Reproductive rights are under assault and we need to use every tool at our disposal to fight back. Now, it's time for Congress to codify the right to access an abortion into federal law." [Tweet, 7/8/2022]
Tom Cochran, CEO and Executive Director of U.S. Conference of Mayors: "America's mayors applaud the efforts by President Biden and the Executive Branch to protect access to reproductive health care services in the wake of the devastating Supreme Court decision in Dobbs. Today's Executive Order will also protect patient privacy and access to accurate information and promote the safety and security of patients, providers, and clinics. We further appreciate the Attorney General's pledge on June 24 that the Justice Department will work tirelessly to protect and advance reproductive freedom. Just last month the Conference of Mayors adopted policy registering the organization's support for a woman's constitutional right to choose and calling on Congress to swiftly pass legislation to codify that right. We will do everything we can to help to make that happen but appreciate in the meantime the importance of this Executive Order and the support it provides to women across the country." [Press Release, 7/8/22]
African American Mayor's Association: "The burden and the harms of restrictions to abortion access falls disproportionately on Black communities. America's Black mayors are working to meet this moment and ensure all of our communities have access to the reproductive health care that they need. rb.gy/zx0bd0" [Tweet, 7/8/22]
State Constitutional Officers
Minnesota Attorney General Keith Ellison: "Thank you, President Biden. Despite what 6 people on the Supreme Court say, the vast majority of Americans want the freedom to control their own bodies and their most personal choices protected. This is what protecting Americans looks like." [Tweet, 7/8/2022]
Advocacy Organizations and Advocates
Women's Rights Leaders
Hillary Clinton: "Make no mistake: Banning abortion puts lives at risk. Thank you, @POTUS, for taking these crucial steps to protect our most fundamental rights and access to health care." [Tweet, 7.8.22]
Mini Timmaraju, President, NARAL Pro-Choice America: "All across the country, from governor's mansions to state legislatures, pro-choice Democrats are stepping up to the plate to defend our fundamental freedom to make our own decisions about our families and futures while extremist MAGA Republicans prepare a federal abortion ban and anti-choice state officials are enforcing extreme bans on abortion state by state. President Biden's executive order to safeguard access to reproductive healthcare, including abortion care, is an important first step in restoring the rights taken from millions of Americans by the Supreme Court. We're encouraged by the Biden-Harris administration's work to defend abortion rights and access, and look forward to continuing partnership with the administration to make good on its commitment to championing reproductive freedom.These actions come in the aftermath of the anti-choice supermajority on the Supreme Court overturning Roe v. Wade in its ruling in Dobbs v. Jackson Women's Health Organization. This cruel decision opened the door for extremist state lawmakers to enforce extreme bans on abortion. Roughly half of the states in the country are at risk of banning abortion, and thus far, 11 states have bans in place and many more are rushing to do the same. The people hurt most by these bans and restrictions are those who already face barriers to accessing abortion care-including women; Black, Indigenous, and other people of color; those working to make ends meet; the LGBTQ+ community; immigrants; young people; those living in rural communities; and people with disabilities. [Statement, 7.8.22]
Fatima Goss Graves, President and CEO, National Women's Law Center: "We commend the President for making it clear that the full weight of the government will be brought to bear on the legal and public health crisis unfolding across our country. We expect them to move forward with the speed and intensity demanded by this Executive Order, and look forward to concrete initiatives that help people get the care they need. This crisis is here because of a decades-long strategy where extremist politicians took over our courts, restricted our right to vote, and gerrymandered their districts in order to deny us economic security, equality, and freedom. Undoing these injustices will take efforts by all of us, including using the full force of the federal government." [Statement, 7.8.22]
Jacqueline Ayers, Senior Vice President of Policy, Organizing and Campaigns, Planned Parenthood Federation of America: "We're in a national health care crisis and need officials at every level of government to do everything within their authority to fight for access to abortion. Amid the Supreme Court stripping Americans of their constitutional right to abortion after nearly 50 years, we need an urgent and robust response to ensure people get the essential health care they need. Planned Parenthood is encouraged the administration is reaffirming its commitment to abortion access and looks forward to working toward implementation of these and other strategies to address this crisis." [Statement, 7.8.22]
Amanda Brown Lierman, Executive Director, Supermajority: "We applaud President Biden for stepping up to the moment and safeguarding our access to reproductive care. This Executive Order shows the Biden Administration is willing to fight for women while our rights are under attack. "The Supreme Court's decision to overturn Roe v. Wade put the lives of millions of people, especially women of color, in danger. The decision pushed us into a new era where my three young daughters have fewer rights than I or their grandmother had. "While this Executive Order is not the only solution to this arcane and restrictive ruling, it is a critical step towards safeguarding our ability to choose. But we must continue to work until our lives are safe and our bodies are respected. "We cannot stop until Congress enshrines the right to safe, legal abortion care into law. Our freedom should not be gambled for political gain. Women -- as the majority bloc of voters -- have to show up to the ballot boxes and keep our elected leaders accountable. We will not stop organizing, voting, or protesting until our reproductive freedoms are permanently safe." [Statement, 7.8.22]
Healthcare Organizations
Dr. Jack Resneck, President, American Medical Association: "Across the country, since the Supreme Court's egregious decision to overturn Roe v. Wade, physicians have been placed in an impossible situation - straining to meet our ethical duties to place patient health and wellbeing first, while attempting to comply with vague, restrictive, complex, and conflicting state laws that interfere in the practice of medicine and jeopardize the health of patients. The AMA applauds today's executive order from the Biden Administration exploring pathways to protect access to reproductive health care services and provide guidance to physicians. For physicians and patients alike, this is a frightening and fraught time, with new, unprecedented concerns about data privacy, access to contraception, and even when to begin lifesaving care. Our hope is that these first steps announced today are clarifying and effective as we continue the critical work necessary to ensuring access to comprehensive reproductive health care." [Statement, 7.8.22]
Dr. Maureen Phipps, CEO, American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists: "As the nation's leading organization representing women's health care professionals, ACOG, our volunteer leadership, our members, and our staff have been working around the clock to provide resources and support for obstetrician-gynecologists, their patients, and their practice. We appreciate that the administration is taking steps to support clinicians, including protecting access to necessary medications; ensuring legal protections for clinicians who provide out-of-state abortion care; and issuing new guidance on EMTALA and HIPAA to support and protect clinicians, health care professionals, and patients." [Tweet, 7.8.22]
Dr. Rachel Villanueva, President, National Medical Association: "We strongly support the Biden administration's executive order to protect access to reproductive health services, including abortion and contraception. Today's decision from the White House will protect patients' bodily autonomy, uphold the relationship between doctors and patients, and strengthen privacy rights for everyone. As doctors, we are encouraged by these developments, especially on the heels of the Supreme Court's decision to overturn Roe which undermines our ability to provide safe, private health care to all of our patients. Unfortunately, the Supreme Court's decision to strip away the freedom of individuals to make deeply personal health care decisions has far-reaching and devastating consequences that the President alone cannot address, particularly for people of color. The National Medical Association urges the Senate to pass the Women's Health Protection Act, and codify reproductive freedom for all." [Statement, 7.8.22]
American Medical Women's Association: "The American Medical Women's Association (AMWA) supports key provisions in the Executive Order announced today by President Biden. In particular, AMWA upholds the commitment to safeguard reproductive rights, specifically to:

Protect access to FDA-approved medication abortion
Ensure that patients are able to receive emergency medical care afforded under the law
Enable interstate travel to attain abortion care and maintain access to contraception
Protect the privacy of an individual's health information, including reproductive health information

The Executive Order addresses the need to protect digital health privacy so that sensitive individual health information is not sold to data brokers. AMWA supports all efforts aimed at protecting personal medical privacy as a cornerstone of the invaluable physician-patient relationship. As with most medical decisions, reproductive health matters, including abortion, are complex and nuanced, necessitating considerations by the patient in consultation with their physician without legislative interference. AMWA supports efforts to provide better protective measures that assure physicians are able to practice evidence-based medicine and deliver the most appropriate and necessary care possible. AMWA commends the efforts announced today by the White House as important steps toward securing physicians' ability to deliver reproductive-related care without fear of legal repercussions. And, to support patients' rights to receive desired and necessary reproductive medical care. AMWA champions these measures that uphold our mission to assure that quality healthcare, including abortion, is accessible and available to all." [Statement, 7.8.22]
Oregon Health and Science University: "Thank you President Biden for signing this Executive Order aimed at defending access to reproductive health care services. Abortion is health care." [Tweet, 7.8.22]
Faith
National Council of Jewish Women: "We thank @POTUS for the exec. order to create an Interagency Task Force on Reproductive Healthcare Access, signaling dedication to protecting & expanding access to abortion care, incl. medication abortion, & contraception, while protecting patient privacy." [Tweet, 7.8.22]Religious Action Center of Reform Judaism: "We welcome President Biden's executive order, which will protect access to medication abortion & contraception; protect privacy of patients; ensure emergency care; promote safety of patients, providers, & clinics; & form an interagency reproductive healthcare access task force. Jewish tradition teaches that providing health care is an obligation for both the doctor and for all of society. Ensuring access to care for all requires the Administration to use the full scope of executive powers. These comprehensive measures are key to reach that goal." [Tweet, 7.8.22]
Dr. Serene Jones, President, Union Theological Seminary: "Union welcomes the safeguards the Biden administration is putting in place to protect the reproductive wellbeing of all women, transgender and non-binary people. As some states work to criminalize abortion, it is essential that our federal government protect those rights, which is consistent with what the Christian faith, the Bible and the teachings of many faith traditions support. The Bible never explicitly discusses abortion. What it does consistently tell us is that human beings are moral agents, fully capable of making their own decisions. It also tells us that we should protect and love each other. And so Union thanks the Biden administration for advancing the very Christian value of protecting and loving each other. We hope that this will also spur Congress to action on codifying reproductive rights into law." [Statement, 7.8.22]
American Muslim Health Professionals: "ALL women must have equitable access to quality & safe reproductive healthcare services & we applaud the President's executive order today to ensure this." [Tweet, 7.8.22]
Union Leaders
Randi Weingarten, President, AFT: "From combating disinformation to protecting access to things like medication abortion and contraception, the Biden administration is taking the necessary steps forward. It's time for the Senate to do their part and protect reproductive freedoms." [Tweet, 07/08/22]
Liz Shuler, President, AFL-CIO: "Thank you @POTUS for taking action to protect access to critical reproductive care for millions of working people. Everyone deserves autonomy & equity over their own health care." [Tweet, 07/08/22]
  