
    Today, at President Donald J. Trump's direction, the Department of the Treasury and the Department of State announced designations on four individuals and ten entities actively supporting the murderous and barbaric Assad regime in Syria. Today's designations employ a range of sanctions authorities to target the Assad regime, including the Caesar Act provision of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2020, which authorizes sanctions on individuals providing support to the Syrian government.
The targets of today's sanctions include a corrupt Syrian businessman complicit in support to the regime, and nine entities responsible for enriching the Syrian regime through construction of luxury real estate. The United States also designated three Assad regime figures, including a senior regime general responsible for perpetuating the conflict in Syria, as well as the regime-controlled First Division of the Syrian Arab Army for its obstruction of a ceasefire in Syria.
Today's sanctions continue the recent actions by the Trump Administration against those who enable the Assad regime's violent reign of terror. On June 17, 2020, the United States designated nearly 40 individuals and entities also actively supporting the Assad regime. More sanctions will follow as part of a sustained campaign of economic and political pressure to deny the Assad regime the resources it uses to wage war against the Syrian people.
These designations also underscore the Administration's simple but firm position that no individual or entity should enter into business with or otherwise enrich such a vile regime. Importantly, today's actions are intended to hold the murderous Assad regime accountable. They are not directed at the Syrian people, whom the United States supports in their efforts for peace, stability, and rule of law.
This Administration remains committed to a lasting political solution in Syria. The Assad regime and its patrons must recognize that a political resolution is the only viable mechanism to bring a peaceful end to the Syrian conflict.
  