
    President Donald J. Trump today announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key positions in his Administration:
Ann Marie Buerkle of New York to be the Chairman of the Consumer Product Safety Commission and to be a Commissioner of the Consumer Product Safety Commission for a term of 7 years beginning October 27, 2018. Ms. Buerkle currently serves as Commissioner of the Consumer Product Safety Commission. Since 2017, she has also served as Acting Chair. Prior to joining the Consumer Product Safety Commission, Ms. Buerkle represented New York's 25th Congressional District in Congress. During her time in Congress, Ms. Buerkle served as a United States Representative to the 66th Session of the General Assembly of the United Nations from 2011 to 2012. From 1997 to 2009, Ms. Buerkle was an Assistant Attorney General for the state of New York. Earlier in her career, she practiced law in a private firm. Before her legal career, Ms. Buerkle worked as a registered nurse at Columbia Presbyterian Hospital in New York City. She received a BS from Le Moyne College and a JD from Syracuse University College of Law.
Peter Hoekstra of Michigan to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Kingdom of the Netherlands. Mr. Hoekstra is a prominent politician and business executive who served as a member of Congress from 1993-2011, representing Michigan's 2nd Congressional District. He was the Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence from 2004 to 2007 and then the ranking Republican on the Committee until 2011. Mr. Hoekstra continues to be active on public policy issues and in business affairs as a consultant, researcher, and writer. He was a distinguished fellow at the Heritage Foundation and a Shillman Senior Fellow at the Investigative Project on Terrorism. He earned a BA at Hope College and an MBA at the University of Michigan.
Justin Hicks Siberell of Maryland to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America the Kingdom of Bahrain. Mr. Siberell, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, has served as an American diplomat since 1993. He is currently the Acting Coordinator for Counterterrorism, U.S. Department of State. Through six postings in Middle East countries, Mr. Siberell has developed a deep knowledge of the Gulf States and critical American interests in the region. He has led large, diverse organizations in Washington and abroad and has created unified, resilient, and highly productive interagency teams addressing challenges in high-threat environments. Mr. Siberell earned a BA in History from the University of California at Berkeley. He speaks Spanish and Arabic.
-------
President Donald J. Trump Announces Intent to Appoint Christopher Krebs to the Department of Homeland Security
Christopher Krebs of Virginia to be the Assistant Secretary for Infrastructure Protection, Department of Homeland Security. Mr. Krebs has extensive experience in critical infrastructure protection and cybersecurity risk management. He most recently served as Senior Counselor to the Secretary of Homeland Security, where he advised the Secretary on a range of cybersecurity, infrastructure protection, and resilience issues. Prior to his work at the Department of Homeland Security, Mr. Krebs was Director for Cybersecurity Policy for the Microsoft Corporation in the Washington, D.C. office, where he managed Microsoft's U.S. policy work on cybersecurity and encryption issues. Before Microsoft, Mr. Krebs advised private sector, and Federal, State, and local government customers on range of cybersecurity and risk management issues. From 2007 to 2009, he served as Senior Advisor to the Assistant Secretary for Infrastructure Protection, playing a formative role in a number of national and international risk management programs. He holds a bachelor's degree in environmental sciences from the University of Virginia and a JD from the Antonin Scalia Law School at George Mason University.
  