
    STATEMENT OF ADMINISTRATION POLICY
(SENT 7/11/94)(Senate Floor)(Sponsor: Byrd (D), West Virginia)
This statement of Administration Policy provides the Administration's views on H.R. 4602, the Department of the Interior and Related Agencies Appropriations Bill, FY 1995, as reported by the Senate Appropriations Committee.
The Administration supports Senate passage of H.R. 4602 and will work with the Congress to address the concerns described below.
President's Investment Initiatives 
The Administration is pleased that the Committee hill would adequately fund many of the President's investment proposals for the Departments of the Interior and Energy, as well as the Forest Service. The Administration appreciates the Senate's efforts to provide funding above the FY 1994 enacted level for these important initiatives.
However, the Administration is concerned that the committee bill would reduce funding for the Natural Resource Protection and Environmental Infrastructure initiative. This initiative funds-high-priority programs for operations of the National Park service, Fish and Wildlife Service, and Forest Service, and includes funding for the Pacific Northwest Forest Plan and the South Florida Everglades Restoration. The Administration supports language in the committee bill that would make increased funds available if the Administration's National Park fee proposal is adopted.
The Committee bill would reduce funding from the Administration's request for Energy Conservation by $235 million. Thus reduction would severely limit the Administration's ability to implement the Energy Policy Act of 1992 and climate Change Action Rian (CCAP). Many existing programs would have to be curtailed or eliminated in order to fund even a skeleton CCAP program. The reduction in Energy Conservation also would reduce by $37 million the requested funding for the low-income Weatherization Assistance Program, which is one of the President's high-priority investment initiatives. The Administration urges the Senate to restore as much funding as possible for these important initiatives and will work with the Senate to identify lower priority programs currently funded above the President's request that can be reduced to provide the necessary funds.
Pacific Northwest Forest Plan 
The committee bill would further reduce — below the level of the House-passed bill — funding requested for the Department of the Interior to implement the President's Forest Plain, in the Pacific Northwest. The President's request for the Pacific Northwest has been prioritized to accomplish the necessary activities at the lowest overall cast. The Administration supports maintaining the House-passed funding level for the Interior portion of this high priority initiative.
North American Wetlands Conservation Fund 
The Administration commends the committee for restoring funds for the North American Wetlands Conservation Fund, this program is a highly successful, cooperative program with Mexico and Canada. It is an important contributor to the Administration wetlands program and has received Secretary Babbitt's support in testimony on reauthorization bills now before Congress.
National Endowment for the Arts 
The Administration objects to reductions below the request for the National Endowment for the Arts. The Administration believes that the budget request is the appropriate level of funding and urges the Senate to restore funds to the National Endowment for the Arts. The Administration would object to amendments that may be offered that would eliminate funding for the Endowment.
Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation 
The Administration commends the Committee for restoring salary and expenses funding for the Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation (PADC) that was eliminated by the House due to the lack of authorization beyond FY 1994. The Administration has recently forwarded legislation to the Congress that proposes a short-term extension of PADC's authorization and the eventual assumption of its continuing functions.by a small successor organization.
United States Holocaust Memorial Council
The Administration continues to support funding for the Holocaust Memorial Council at the level requested by the President.
Infringement on Executive Authority 
There are several provisions in the Committee bill that require congressional approval before Executive Branch execution of aspects of the Bill. Examples within the Forest Service include transfer and reprogramming guidelines, restrictions on regional boundary modification, and appropriations restructuring. The Administration will interpret such provisos to require notification only, since any other interpretation would contradict the Supreme Court ruling in INS vs. Chadha.
  