
    Pool Reports by Tarini Parti, The Wall Street Journal 



Sent:
Reports:




July 28, 2022 11:31

VP Travel Pool #1 wheels up
Marine Two landed at the tarmac at JBA at 11:25 am.
VP Harris, wearing a dusty rose suit, immediately walked to AF2, where she was greeted at the bottom of the stairs by admin officials (listed below). She boarded at 11:28 am after a quick wave at the top of the stairs. Didn’t stop for questions.
Traveling with the VP today:
- Administrator Isabella Guzman, U.S. Small Business Administration
- Deputy Secretary Don Graves, U.S. Department of Commerce
Greeter:
- Maj. Guy Evertson, Director Flight Line Protocol, C-32A Pilot
Wheels up for NYC shortly.
Some background on today’s event:
On Background from a White House Official Today, Vice President Kamala Harris will travel to Brooklyn, New York to announce the formation of the Economic Opportunity Coalition (EOC), a coalition of 24 companies and foundations, which will invest tens of billions of dollars in underserved communities. She will also announce new policy initiatives to advance the Biden-Harris Administration’s work to support Community Development Financial Institutions Funds (CDFIs), small businesses, and community infrastructure in underserved communities.
Vice President Harris will deliver remarks and meet with newly formed EOC members, small business leaders, local residents, and financial service providers at Restoration Plaza, a first-of-its kind community development corporation based in Brooklyn that helps expand access to capital and community development. She will be joined by Lieutenant Governor Antonio Delgado, Mayor Eric Adams, SBA Administrator Isabella Guzman, Deputy Commerce Secretary Don Graves, Department of the Treasury Counselor for Racial Equity Janis Bowdler. The Biden-Harris Administration and the EOC will work together to ensure current and future commitments are equitably invested in underserved communities, thereby strengthening our overall economy. This announcement builds on President Biden and Vice President Harris’ actions to lead the most equitable economic recovery on record and make long-overdue investments in communities that have historically been left behind.
As Senator, the Vice President partnered with key Congressional stakeholders to secure a transformative $12 billion investment for CDFIs and MDIs in December 2020. Since that time, she has worked with Secretary Yellen and the Department of the Treasury to ensure these programs are as successful as possible. Economic Opportunity Coalition founding members include Ariel Investments, Bank of America, BNY Mellon, Capital One, Citi, Discover, Ford Foundation, Goldman Sachs, Google, Key Bank, Kresge Foundation, Mastercard, McDonald's, McKinsey & Company, Micron, Momentus Capital, Moody’s, Netflix, Next Street, PayPal, PNC, The Rockefeller Foundation, TIAA, and Upstart.
And here’s the sched for today:
At 11:35AM EDT, the Vice President will depart Washington, D.C. en route New York City, New York. This departure from Joint Base Andrews and arrival at LaGuardia International Airport will be pooled press.
At 1:30PM EDT, the Vice President will tour the Bedford Stuyvesant Restoration Corporation Economic Solutions Center. This tour at Restoration Plaza will be pooled press.
At 3:25PM EDT, the Vice President will deliver remarks on the Biden-Harris Administration’s investment in underserved communities, financial institutions, and small businesses. This event at the Billie Holiday Theatre in Restoration Plaza will be pooled press.
At 4:40PM EDT, the Vice President will depart New York City, New York en route Water Mill, New York. This departure from LaGuardia International Airport and arrival at Francis S. Gabreski Airport will be pooled press.
At 6:50PM EDT, the Vice President will deliver remarks at a finance event. This event at a private residence will be covered by editorial pool only.
At 8:00PM EDT, the Vice President will depart Water Mill, New York en route Washington, D.C. This departure from Francis S. Gabreski Airport and arrival at Joint Base Andrews will be pooled press.


July 28, 2022 12:44

VP Travel Pool #2 rolling to bed-stuy
AF2 touched down at LaGuardia at 12:23 pm.
Harris deplaned at 12:37 pm.
She was greeted by NY Lieutenant Governor Antonio Delgado. They shook hands and chatted and laughed.
She got in her car immediately after. Didn’t stop for questions.
Motorcade rolling for Bedford Stuyvesant Restoration Corporation Economic Solutions Center at 12:40 pm.
(VP came to the back of the plane for an OTR chat with pool for about 5 mins right before takeoff)


July 28, 2022 13:57

VP Travel #3 arrival/tour
VP's motorcade arrived at Bedford Stuyvesant Restoration Corporation Economic Solutions Center at 1:11 pm.
Drive through NYC was uneventful.
Pool did not see VP exit her car.
Blondel Pinnock, President and CEO of Bedford Stuyvesant Restoration Corporation guided VP, Administrator Guzman, and Deputy Secretary Graves guided VP through multiple tour stops in the Economic Solutions Center, Restoration Plaza. (Full list of participants and titles below)
For the first stop, VP entered a training classroom at 1:22 pm with a "good afternoon everybody." Tokunbo Anifalge and Lorraine West (titles below) spoke to Harris, who said the center was a model for the country.
Harris asked West how the center had helped her business — "I can't believe the transformation," west said. "They are always giving me a solution."
Anifalge explained how the center helps with training and getting access to capital. Harris asked how the growth of small businesses have helped the community. Anifalge said access to capital through CDFIs help grow businesses and invest back into the community.
Harris thanked them. Pool was moved to get in position for second stop as she was speaking.
For the second stop, Harris walked into the "Economic Solutions Center bullpen."
Julian Stillman and Omolara Adelekan (titles below) showed her how the center helps with financial work—improving credit, savings, etc.
Harris asked how long the center maintains its relationships with clients and what more needs to be done to improve financial literacy. "The key is education," Stillman said, adding that it needs to be with compassion and without judgment. He said retention rate with clients was high.
Adelekan, a Nigerian immigrant, explained how Stillman has spent time listening to her financial problems and goals and helped improve her credit score and become more comfortable in the US.  Harris asked for a specific example of how she had been helped. She explained how he taught her how to properly use a credit card.
"That's wonderful," Harris said. "Thank you for telling your story…congratulations on your success."
For the third stop, Harris greeted Karen Thornton-Daniels and Aomi Sailing (titles below) in the Economic Solutions Center lobby in front of walls with art work. She talked to them about the center's arts and education program.
Harris asked how other young people can learn from a program like this one and jokingly called Sailing "Madam President." She told Harris she will be attending Hampton university and Harris told her to stay in touch since she will be nearby.
Pool was ushered out at 1:52 pm. VP's remarks are up next. I'm told they are not live-streamed so I will send some highlights.
Overall participants  - Vice President Harris - Administrator Isabella Guzman, U.S. Small Business Administration - Deputy Secretary Don Graves, U.S. Department of Commerce - Lieutenant Governor Antonio Delgado (D-NY) - Blondel Pinnock, President and CEO, Bedford Stuyvesant Restoration Corporation - Tokunbo Anifalaje, Director, Bedford Stutvesant Restoration Corporation - Lorraine West, Owner, Lorraine West Jewelry - Julian Stillman, Manager, Financial Empowerment Center - Omolara Adelekan, Julian Stillman's Client - Karen Thornton-Daniels, Dance Instructor - Aomi Sailing, Karen Thornton-Daniels' Student


July 28, 2022 15:37

VP Travel #4 Remarks/GDP/rolling
VP walked out onto the stage, which had a large American flag as the backdrop, around 3:15 pm. She spoke in a packed, small auditorium. Her remarks were not livestreamed, so some quotes and an otter link below:
She started by talking about the latest GDP numbers: "After a year of rapid growth, our economy is slowing down. But our nation's economic outlook remains strong. She acknowledged, "there's still more work to be done." And brought up the Manchin-Schumer deal as a "major step forward in our fight against inflation."
She also touted the CHIPS bill and said "And I just got word the House just passed" it.
"Our administration remains focused on additional efforts to build a stronger economy for all people and that's why we are here today."
"Community lenders are uniquely positioned to fill the gaps that traditional banks either cannot or will address. The folks who run these institutions, many of whom I've met, who are here often work and live in the very communities that they serve. They see clearly their community's needs and its challenges. They understand their community. And they also see their communities strengths and opportunities. "
"There are still far too many people nowadays just not have access to the capital and the financial services they need. And I believe given the breadth of the financial disparity, the public and private sector must join forces to take on these challenges."
Her remarks ended at 3:29 pm. Motorcade rolling at 3:34 pm.
Otter for her remarks (start around the 33 min mark): https://otter.ai/u/rOg-2WqbybPTfUoGEc4yRLcW-L8
(The White House also put out a factsheet on the VP's announcement and I sent background in a previous pool report)
Before the VP's speech, several others, including Mayor Eric Adams and Lt. Gov. Delgado spoke. Full list of speakers below.
Eric Adams, who opened the event, gave quick remarks, saying he didn't want to spoil the VP's big announcement: "Sit back, it's going to be an exciting day."
Delgado said the event was about empowerment and equity. "It's no secret that there is a racial wealth gap. We know that the net worth of white households is 10 times that of black households."
Blondel Pinnock, President and CEO, Bedford Stuyvesant Restoration Corporation, noted a Black lawyer of Jamaican heritage,
AG Letitia James was in attendance. She entered the room a few minutes before the speaking program began and got a round of applause from those in the front of the room who spotted her.
Full list of speakers:
Mayor Eric Adams (D-New York City, NY)- Lieutenant Governor Antonio Delgado (D-NY)- Ruth Porat, Chief Financial Officer, Google- Raj Shah, President & CEO, Rockefeller Foundation- Rip Rapson, President & CEO, Kresge Foundation- Janis Bowdler, Counselor for Racial Equity, U.S. Department of the Treasury- Deputy Secretary Don Graves, U.S. Department of Commerce- Administrator Isabella Guzman, U.S. Small Business Administration- Blondel Pinnock, President and CEO, Bedford Stuyvesant Restoration Corporation


July 28, 2022 16:12

VP Travel #5 airport arrival/wheels up
Motorcade arrived back at LaGuardia at 4:04 pm after a bumpy ride.
VP got out of her car and took photos with the advance staff before boarding at 4:09 pm. She didn’t stop to take questions.
Next stop: DNC event in the Hamptons.
Wheels up shortly.


July 28, 2022 17:24

VP Travel Pool #5 Hamptons arrival/info [APP Note: See reporter's note in Report #7 below that states this should be numbered as "Report #6".]
AF2 Landed at Francis S. Gabreski at 4:48 pm.
VP Harris deplaned at 5:11 pm. She got in her car right after. Didn’t stop and gaggle.
Motorcade rolling at 5:14.
Here’s more info on the fundraiser:
On Background from a WH Official
The Vice President is attending a DNC finance reception hosted by Dennis and Karen Mehiel at their home in Water Mill, New York. There are expected to be about 55 guests in attendance.


July 28, 2022 18:38

VP Travel Pool #7 Fundraiser arrival/remarks
(Quick correction: The previous report was numbered incorrectly. Should have been #6. Sorry for any confusion!)
VP walked out to a lectern on the back patio at 6:13 pm. She opened by thanking the donors and telling them about her day in Brooklyn. Please check all quotes against transcript.
"When you know what you stand for, you know what to fight for."
She said in the aftermath of the Dobbs decision, she's been thinking about freedom and Liberty. "These are some of the issues that I think are front and center in terms of the challenges we face as a nation."
In talking about "this moment" and the "duality of democracy," Harris said: "While there is strength, it coexists with a definite amount of fragility."
She touted the admins accomplishments: child tax cut, recently passed gun control reforms
She also brought up the Buffalo shooting. "We believe that all communities should be able to exist in a way that they live without fear," adding that an assault weapons ban is still needed.
VP brought up Justice Thomas's Dobbs concurring opinion and said he said the quiet part aloud.
"There is so much at stake in our country right now."
VP said she has spoken to 100 presidents, prime ministers and kings in her tenure so far. Brought up a meeting she had with Angela Merkel, who brought up issues with voting rights in the US.
"Here we are in a situation where those things that we thought were settled are increasingly unsettled"
"Elections matter," she said, repeatedly.
"We need two more senators to see these things through," she said.
Harris said she has been meeting with state legislators on abortion in the aftermath of Dobbs and that Democratic govs are standing up for reproductive rights.
Mentioned Roy Cooper in NC and Josh Shapiro in PA as an outstanding candidate for gov.
"We are joined with a sense of optimism, knowing we are fighting for something and not against something."
Said it's been good to get out of DC and meet people. She wrapped up her remarks at 6:30 pm and pool was ushered out.
Before her remarks, motorcade arrived at the home of Dennis and Karen Mehiel in Water Mill at 5:38 pm.
Karen Mehiel introduced Harris.
Pool stayed in the press van until 5:58.
We were then led through a gravel driveway to a big white home with solar panels on the side roof. We waited by a door to the back yard until 6:02 pm. Attendees were sipping on drinks around a swimming pool in a yard with lots of flowers (looked like hydrangeas?) and manicured tall hedges.
Attendees were wearing name tags. Pool couldn't see it but we are told there was a tennis court on a lower level beyond the hedges. A lectern with four american flags was set up for the VP.


July 28, 2022 19:26

VP Travel Pool #8 wheels up for JBA
Motorcade left the DNC event at 6:56 pm.
We arrived at the Francis S. Gabreski airport at 7:19 pm.
VP Harris boarded the plane quickly at 7:22 pm.
She didn’t take questions
Wheels up for JBA shortly.


July 28, 2022 21:03

VP Travel Pool #9 JBA
AF2 landed at JBA at 8:28 pm. It started pouring a few mins after we landed so we stayed on the plane until it stopped and weather cleared for Marine Two.
VP deplaned at 8:56 pm. She was wearing a trench coat.
Her greeter was the same as this morning. Name in first pool report.
She boarded Marine Two at 8:57 pm and was wheels up at 9:01 pm.
Have a good night!



  