
    Memorandum for the Heads of Executive Departments and Agencies
Subject: Guidelines for Human Stem Cell Research
As outlined in Executive Order 13505 of March 9, 2009, my Administration is committed to supporting and conducting ethically responsible, scientifically worthy human stem cell research, including human embryonic stem cell research, to the extent permitted by law. Pursuant to that order, the National Institutes of Health (NIH) published final "National Institutes of Health Guidelines for Human Stem Cell Research" (Guidelines), effective July 7, 2009. These Guidelines apply to the expenditure of NIH funds for research using human embryonic stem cells and certain uses of human induced pluripotent stem cells. The Guidelines are based on the principles that responsible research with human embryonic stem cells has the potential to improve our understanding of human biology and aid in the discovery of new ways to prevent and treat illness, and that individuals donating embryos for research purposes should do so freely, with voluntary and informed consent. These Guidelines will ensure that NIH-funded research adheres to the highest ethical standards.
In order to ensure that all federally funded human stem cell research is conducted according to these same principles and to promote a uniform Federal policy across the executive branch, I hereby direct the heads of executive departments and agencies that support and conduct stem cell research to adopt these Guidelines, to the fullest extent practicable in light of legal authorities and obligations. I also direct those departments and agencies to submit to the Director of the Office of Management and Budget (OMB), within 90 days, proposed additions or revisions to any other guidance, policies, or procedures related to human stem cell research, consistent with Executive Order 13505 and this memorandum. The Director of the OMB shall, in coordination with the Director of NIH, review these proposals to ensure consistent implementation of Executive Order 13505 and this memorandum.
This memorandum is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person. Executive departments and agencies shall carry out the provisions of this memorandum to the extent permitted by law and consistent with their statutory and regulatory authorities and their enforcement mechanisms.
The Director of the OMB is hereby authorized and directed to publish this memorandum in the Federal Register.
BARACK OBAMA
  