
    Today in Davenport, State Representative Phyllis Thede endorsed Senator Kamala Harris for President of the United States. Right after the endorsement, Harris and Thede joined LULAC and the NAACP for a roundtable discussion about the issues facing women of color. Thede, the first state representative in Iowa to endorse Harris, represents the 93rd District, which includes Davenport.
"I had the opportunity to hear Kamala speak in Bettendorf last February. What most impressed me was that she believes the American people need to hear the truth," said Thede. "Truth gives us a basis for a solid structure for change. Whether it is education, justice reform, mental health, or healthcare we must understand its effect on us as Iowans and Americans."
"I believe Kamala Harris understands and supports the truth when it comes to these very important issues and more," she continued. "I know that she will stand with women and communities of color across the state and fight to make sure that we are paid equally, that our sons and daughters are safe in their communities and getting a world-class education, that we have access to good and affordable healthcare, affordable housing, and jobs. I am proud to endorse Kamala Harris today and work to ensure she is the next President of the United States."
Harris was joined by Thede, LULAC Council 10 President Jazmin E. Newton-Butt, Davenport NAACP Vice President Vera Kelly, and others at today's roundtable event. The roundtable was an opportunity for Harris to hear directly from Iowa's leaders and discuss her 3am agenda to lift up communities of color. Harris' agenda includes plans to invest $100 billion in minority homeownership to address the racial wealth gap, offer relief for renters paying more than 30% of their income on rent; provide up to $500 a month for working families making less than $100,000 through a new middle class tax credit; combat the Black maternal mortality crisis; close the gender pay gap for women, which is 61 cents on the dollar for Black women in Iowa and 57 cents for Latinas in Iowa; take executive actions to reduce the carnage of gun violence in communities across America; and, make new investments to raise teacher pay and expand opportunities for teachers of color.
  