
    In Jacksonville, the Vice President convened students, parents, educators, civil rights leaders, and elected officials to address attempts to push forward revisionist history 
Today, Vice President Harris delivered a speech in Jacksonville as she continues fighting back against Florida's new education standards for how Black history would be taught in schools – the latest in extremist attacks on fundamental freedoms across the nation.
"How is it that anyone could suggest that in the midst of these atrocities, that there was any benefit to being subjected to this level of dehumanization," Vice President Harris said about the newly approved standards that could lead to students being taught that enslaved people benefited from slavery. "It is not only misleading, it is false and it is pushing propaganda."
The Vice President's remarks came after she convened students, parents, educators, civil rights leaders, and elected officials to address these attempts to push forward a revisionist history. She also highlighted the coalitions required to protect fundamental freedoms, including the freedom for women to make decisions about their own bodies, the freedom to live safe from gun violence, the freedom to love who you love, and the freedom to vote.
Vice President Harris' travel to Jacksonville was her eighth visit to Florida since being sworn in. Today's speech is also a continuation of the Vice President fighting for students, and leading the fight for fundamental freedoms across the country.
"Let's be clear, I do believe this is not only about the state of Florida. There is a national agenda afoot," said the Vice President. "Extremist so-called leaders for months have dared to ban books...now, on top of all of that, they want to replace history with lies." She closed her remarks by urging Americans to, "think about what this creates as a moment for us to also rededicate ourselves to the coalition, our responsibility at moments like this to understand that nobody should be made to fight alone. We are all in this together."
The Vice President's full remarks from Jacksonville are available here. Read more about today's event below:
AP: Harris targets Florida rules on Black history pushed by DeSantis | AP News [Chris Megarian and Brendan Farrington, 7/21/23]
Vice President Kamala Harris is making a last-minute trip to Florida on Friday to tackle changes to the state's education standards that critics say play down the horror of slavery. It's the latest example of how Harris has been the White House point person for addressing cultural issues such as race, schooling and abortion that are championed by Gov. Ron DeSantis, a Republican presidential candidate. […]
She said that "extremists" were pushing "revisionist history" that "enslaved people benefited from slavery." "They insult us in an attempt to gaslight us, and we will not stand for it," Harris said. She added that "there is so much at stake in this moment: our most basic rights and freedoms, fact versus fiction, foundational principles about what it means to be a democracy."
CNN: Harris heads to Florida ready to forcefully condemn state's new Black history standards | CNN Politics [Jasmine Wright and Kevin Liptak, 7/21/23]
Vice President Kamala Harris will travel Friday to Jacksonville in a last-minute trip to forcefully condemn a newly approved set of standards for teaching Black history by the Florida Board of Education, directly wading into one of the cultural flashpoints that have assumed new prominence ahead of the 2024 election.
It's the latest example of Harris acting as a rapid response voice for the administration, quickly deploying around the country in the immediate aftermath of a controversial vote or law being passed to offer forceful pushback of moves taken by state Republicans on guns, abortion and education. […]
Harris, who has also taken a lead role in the administration's response to restrictive abortion bans, has spoken out forcefully against the efforts. On Thursday, she warned against education rules that paper over historical realities.
NBC 6 (Miami): Kamala Harris in Jacksonville: VP set to speak against state's new Black history standards – NBC 6 South Florida (nbcmiami.com) [Monica Galarza, 7/21/23]
Vice President Kamala Harris is set to travel to Florida Friday to deliver critical remarks in response to the state Board of Education's approval of new standards for how Black history will be taught in public schools. […]
Harris, whose mother was a civil rights activist, will also meet with parents, educators, civil rights leaders and elected officials, the official said. […] The topic of voting rights, gun violence and women's choices about their own bodies, will also be addressed during Harris' visit, the White House official said.
Newsweek: Kamala Harris Says Florida Slavery Lessons Are Attempt To 'Gaslight Us' (newsweek.com) [Gerrard Kaonga, 7/21/23]
Vice President Kamala Harris has condemned Florida's State Board of Education's approval of new standards for how Black history is taught in schools in a strongly worded speech. […]
The new standards require instruction for middle school students to include "how slaves developed skills which, in some instances, could be applied for their personal benefit," according to a document listing the standards. This document was posted on the Florida Department of Education website.
On Friday, Harris is expected to travel to Florida to deliver a speech critical of this latest move by the Educational board. The trip to Jacksonville will highlight efforts to "protect fundamental freedoms, specifically, the freedom to learn and teach America's full and true history," a White House official said to NBC News.
MSNBC's Morning Joe: VP Harris Will Visit Florida to Speak Out Against State's New Black History Standards
  