
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate eleven individuals and announced his intention to appoint fifteen individuals to serve in his administration.
The President intends to nominate Jack Martin to be Chief Financial Officer of the Department of Education. He has been the Managing Director and CEO of Jack Martin and Company, P.C., Certified Public Accountants since 1975, and he has served as the Chairman of the Home Federal Savings Bank of Detroit since 1995. From 1991 to 1994, he left the private sector and served as Chairman of the Provider Reimbursement Review Board within the Department of Health and Human Services. He received both his undergraduate and degree and M. B. A. from Wayne State University.
The President intends to nominate Joan E. Ohl to be Commissioner of Children, Youth and Families within the Department of Health and Human Services. Most recently, she served as the Secretary of the West Virginia Department of Health and Human Resources after being appointed by Governor Cecil H. Underwood in 1997. Governor Gaston Caperton appointed Ohl to serve as a Board Member of the Health Care Cost Review Authority in 1993, and in 1991, appointed her Chair of the West Virginia Scholl Health Committee and as a Member of the West Virginia Health Care Planning Commission. She is a graduate of the University of Delaware, received an Ed.M. from the State University of New York at Buffalo and an ABD from Pennsylvania State University.
The President intends to nominate Melody H. Fennel to be Assistant Secretary of Housing and Urban Development for Congressional and Intergovernmental Relations. She has served since 1995 as a Professional Staff Member of the U.S. Senate Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs where she was the chief housing advisor to Senator Phil Gramm. From 1990 to 1995, she was the Legislative Director for the National Association of Home Builders and she was a Legislative Representative of for the National Council of State Housing Agencies from 1988 to 1990. Fennel is a graduate of Vassar College.
The President intends to nominate Frederico Juarbe, Jr., to be Assistant Secretary of Labor for Veteran?s Employment and Training. He is presently the Director of National Veterans Service for the Veterans of Foreign Wars of the United States. He has held a variety of positions with the Veterans of Foreign Wars since he began in 1971. Originally from Puerto Rico, he is a veteran of the U.S. Army.
The President intends to nominate the following individuals to serve as Members of the Board of Directors of the Commodity Credit Corporation:
Mark Edward Rey of Washington, D.C.
Eric M. Bost of Texas.
James R. Moseley of Indiana.
Joseph J. Jen of California.
Thomas C. Dorr of Iowa.
J.B. Penn of Arkansas.
William Hawks of Mississippi.
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to serve as Members of the President?s National Security Telecommunications Advisory Committee:
Daniel P. Burnham of Massachusetts to represent the Raytheon Company. Upon appointment he will be designated as Chairman.
Joseph Paul Nacchio of New Jersey to represent Qwest. Upon appointment he will be designated as Vice Chairman.
Van B. Honeycutt of California to represent the Computer Sciences Corporation.
Clay M. Jones of Iowa to represent Rockwell Collins.
David Michael Cote of Ohio to represent TRW.
F. Duane Ackerman of Georgia to represent BellSouth.
Herbert W. Anderson of Virginia to represent Logicon.
Donald Joseph Obert of Arizona to represent the Bank of America.
Bernard John Ebbers of Mississippi to represent MCI Worldcom.
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to serve as Directors of the Board of Directors for the Student Loan Marketing Association:
Colin R. McMillan of New Mexico. Upon appointment he will be designated Chairman.
Catherine L. Hanaway of Missouri
Mary K. Bush of Washington, D.C.
Cory T. Shade of Florida.
Kathleen MacLEllan Gregg of New Hampshire.
Sara Alicia Tucker of California.
  