
    The following listing includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the White House Press Office and not included elsewhere in this issue.
July 1
The President declared a major disaster for the State of Iowa as a result of high winds and tornadoes, beginning on or about June 28, which caused extensive public and private property damage.
Jury 2
The President met at the White House with:
—members of the White House Management Task Force on Energy Shortages;
—Secretary of Energy James R. Schlesinger, Secretary of the Treasury W. Michael Blumenthal, Deputy Attorney General Benjamin R. Civiletti, George C. Eads, member of the Council of Economic Advisers, James T. Mcintyre, Jr., Director of the Office of Management and Budget, Ambassador at Large Henry D. Owen, Special Representative of the President for International Economic Summits, Stuart E. Eizenstat, Assistant to the President for Domestic Affairs and Policy, Alfred E. Kahn, Advisor to the President on Inflation, and other administration officials, to discuss energy issues.
July 3
The President met at the White House with:
—Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs;
—members of the Economic Policy Group Steering Committee;
—Secretary Schlesinger, Secretary Blumenthal, Charles L. Schultze, Chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers, Mr. Mcintyre, Ambassador Owen, Mr. Eizenstat, Mr. Kahn, Barbara Blum, Deputy Administrator, Environmental Protection Agency, James Gustave Speth, member, Council on Environmental Quality, and other administration officials, to discuss energy issues.
The President announced the appointment of Gov. George Ariyoshi of Hawaii as the President's Personal Representative to the Gilbert Islands independence celebrations, to be held July 12 in Tarawa. Mrs. Ariyoshi will accompany the Governor. Other Representatives of the President, also with the rank of Special Ambassador, are: John P. Condon, U.S. Ambassador to Fiji; Gen. Louis Wilson, former Commandant of the U.S. Marine Corps; Evelyn Colbert, Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for East Asian and Pacific Affairs; Frank M. Tejeda, member of the Texas State House of Representatives; James Alexander Hodges, president of Paragon Agency, Macon, Ga.; Allan Schaefer, a Hartford, Conn. attorney; and Lee M. Sessions, Jr., vice president of the Citizens and Southern National Bank, Atlanta, Ga.
The President left the White House for a stay at Camp David, Md.
July 6
The White House announced that the President has cancelled his trip to Louisville, Ky., scheduled for July 7 and 8. He will remain at Camp David for meetings on major domestic issues with individuals both in and outside of government. The President has asked Gov. Julian Carroll of Kentucky, chairman of the National Governors' Association, to bring a representative group of Governors to Camp David this evening for discussions prior to the convening of the National Governors' Association meeting. The Vice President and the First Lady will substitute for the President at the Kentucky Democratic Party fundraiser on Saturday evening. The Vice President will attend a breakfast meeting of the Democratic Governors' Caucus on Sunday morning and address the full association in the afternoon.
  