
    TALLAHASSEE, Fla. — Governor DeSantis joined Clay Travis on Outkick: The Show. Read the highlights below.
Watch the full interview HERE.
On Kamala Harris' fake narrative about Florida's education standards:
"Obviously she's lying, but you know that there is going to be corporate press that are going to run with that and try to create a narrative. There's actually been some that have pushed back because it's so egregious. When we got rid of critical race theory a couple years ago, in the bill that we did, we said you must teach accurate history, you must teach about racial discrimination, you must teach about all aspects of African American history, because we believe in true history. The left and the media at the time was saying, Florida doesn't want to have any African American history. The standards were developed [by] black history scholars...It's very, very thorough. And it [includes] every little aspect, not just slavery, but the black experience in America, from colonial times to beginning. No one can read those and think somehow that they are shilling. It's ridiculous. Everybody knows that. But she said that there wasn't going to be any black history, and now they're saying that somehow this is not accurate. And the reality is, they're lying, and they're creating an narrative. But you actually had some of these guys go on TV. One of them is an African American scholar. And he [said] everything we did here is factual. It's truthful. We are not doing an agenda. We're just telling the truth. And I think the reason why Harris and Biden and the left in the media react is because they see [what] we're doing in Florida. We've kneecapped their ability to use American history to advance their modern-day agenda. That is not the appropriate use of history. So now they're saying there is a provision in there that says somehow this [slavery] was good. That's not what it says. What it says was there were slaves that developed skills, which they did, but that was in spite of slavery. It wasn't because of slavery. And then they used those skills postbellum to be able to provide for themselves and their families. And so this scholar who's been on TV, he said, "that's my history, I'm not going to let Kamala Harris erase my history." _
On de-weaponizing the DOJ:
"What this shows with the whistleblower is that this weaponization of these agencies, on the one hand, there's parents going to school board meetings in Virginia, [they] sic the FBI on them. That's clearly an abuse [and] weaponization. But the flip side of that is, when you're connected to the ruling class, the DC ruling class, you get away scot-free with stuff. So many things should have launched a really serious inquiry. You're going to go guns a blazing on some of these offenses against people you don't like, like a massive investigation. And this? Did you even send a subpoena out? Did you ever even go to a grand jury? It's kind of like with Hillary. One of the things that bothered me with Hillary was not just the decision, which I disagree with. Comey said no reasonable prosecutor. That's not true. They never impaneled a grand jury. They never did a search warrant. They let Hillary's staffers look at the emails. And so the weaponization is, [if] they don't like you, they'll get you for jaywalking, but the flip side is, if you're on the team, you get out of jail free." _
**On why he's running for president: **
"At the end of the day, I'm running for president to beat Biden. I'm reliable, I reflect the values of our voters and I will deliver on all this stuff. I've shown the ability to do that in Florida. Doing number two, it just doesn't appeal to me and I don't think I would be good at it. And I think I'm probably more valuable doing other things. You know, some people run for President because they want a cabinet position or VP or TV contributorship. I'm not that. I don't want VP, I don't want cabinet, I don't want to be a contributor. I'm running to win. That's the only reason I'm running, so we'll either do it or not." _
  