
    NOMINATIONS SENT TO THE SENATE:
Jonathan S. Addleton, of Georgia, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Career Minister, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Mongolia.
Anthony Marion Babauta, of Virginia, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Interior, vice Leslie M. Turner, resigned.
Rafael Borras, of Maryland, to be Under Secretary for Management, Department of Homeland Security, vice Elaine C. Duke, resigned.
Gayleatha Beatrice Brown, of New Jersey, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Burkina Faso.
Patricia D. Cahill, of Missouri, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for Public Broadcasting for a term expiring January 31, 2014, vice Cheryl Feldman Halpern, term expired.
George H. Cohen, of Virginia, to be Federal Mediation and Conciliation Director, vice Arthur F. Rosenfeld, resigned.
Peggy E. Gustafson, of Illinois, to be Inspector General, Small Business Administration, vice Eric M. Thorson.
Samuel D. Hamilton, of Mississippi, to be Director of the United States Fish and Wildlife Service, vice H. Dale Hall, resigned.
Jon M. Huntsman, Jr., of Utah, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the People's Republic of China.
Earl Michael Irving, of California, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Kingdom of Swaziland.
Douglas W. Kmiec, of California, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Malta.
Joseph A. Main, of Virginia, to be Assistant Secretary of Labor for Mine Safety and Health, vice Richard Stickler.
John M. McHugh, of New York, to be Secretary of the Army, vice Preston M. Geren.
David H. Thorne, of Massachusetts, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Italian Republic, and to serve concurrently and without additional compensation as Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of San Marino.
WITHDRAWAL SENT TO THE SENATE:
Philip Mudd, of Virginia, to be Under Secretary for Intelligence and Analysis, Department of Homeland Security (New Position), which was sent to the Senate on May 4, 2009.
  