
    WASHINGTON – Today, President Barack Obama announced the appointment of Daphne Kwok to serve as Chair of the President's Advisory Commission on Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders.
President Obama also announced his intent to appoint the following individuals to key administration posts:
•      David Grubb, Member, Board of Directors of the Presidio Trust
•      William R. Hambrecht, Member, Board of Directors of the Presidio Trust
•      Charlene Harvey, Member, Board of Directors of the Presidio Trust
President Obama said, "I am confident that these accomplished individuals will serve our nation well in these important roles. I look forward to working with them in the months and years ahead."
President Obama appointed the following individual to a key administration post:
Daphne Kwok, Appointee for Chair, President's Advisory Commission on Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders
Daphne Kwok is currently the Executive Director of Asians and Pacific Islanders with Disabilities of California. She was also the Executive Director of the Angel Island Immigration Station Foundation from 2005 to 2007, the Asian Pacific American Institute for Congressional Studies from 2001 to 2005, and at the Organization of Chinese Americans (OCA) from 1990 to 2001. During her term at OCA, Ms. Kwok was elected the first Chair of the National Council of Asian Pacific Americans. Ms. Kwok's work with federal agencies has included being appointed to the Secretary of Energy's Advisory Board (2000-2005); testifying before the U.S. Commission on Civil Rights; and being a grant reviewer for the Department of Health and Human Services' Substance Abuse & Mental Health Services Administration. She also currently serves on the board of trustees at Wesleyan University, where she earned her B.A.
President Obama announced his intent to appoint the following individuals to key administration posts:
David Grubb, Appointee for Member, Board of Directors of the Presidio Trust 
David Grubb is the former chairman and chief executive officer of Swinerton Incorporated, a San Francisco-based general contractor. At Swinerton for four decades, he worked successively as project manager, branch manager, vice president, executive vice president, and president and chairman. Mr. Grubb currently serves on the board of directors for Immaculate Conception Academy and the San Francisco Zoological Society. In addition to having served as chair of the Presidio Trust, Mr. Grubb has served on the board of trustees for the Golden Gate National Parks Conservancy. While at the Conservancy, he chaired the projects committee which oversaw the restoration of Crissy Field, a national historical landmark that was once part of the Presidio Army Base.
William R. Hambrecht, Appointee for Member, Board of Directors of the Presidio Trust
William R. Hambrecht is the Founder and Chairman of WR Hambrecht + Co, an investment bank that uses the internet and auctions for raising capital. Prior to WR Hambrecht + Co, he co-founded Hambrecht & Quist, a firm that specialized in investing in and taking Silicon Valley companies public. Mr. Hambrecht currently serves on the Board of Directors for Motorola, Inc., AOL Inc., and Decision Economics, Inc., and he is on the Board of Trustees for The American University in Beirut and serves on the Advisory Council to The J. David Gladstone Institute. In October 2006, he was inducted into the American Academy of Arts and Sciences.
Charlene Harvey, Appointee for Member, Board of Directors of the Presidio Trust
Charlene Harvey, a longtime resident of San Francisco, worked for 16 years with the Management Center of San Francisco as a staff consultant to nonprofit organizations. She currently serves a board member of the Golden Gate National Parks Conservancy and the San Francisco Foundation, and is involved in the environmental field with Conservation International. She is a past chair of KQED, past chair of the Advisory Committee to Grants for the Arts, and past president of the Junior League of San Francisco. She has served on the boards of the Rosenberg Foundation, the Mental Health Association of San Francisco, and the California Pacific Medical Center, among others. She was awarded the SPUR Award in 1997 and the Outstanding Volunteer Fund Raiser Award in 1996 by the National Society of Fund Raising Executives.
  