
    President George W. Bush today announced that he has named seven individuals to serve in his Administration.
The President has named Judith Ansley to be Deputy Assistant to the President and Deputy National Security Advisor for Regional Affairs on the National Security Council. Ms. Ansley currently serves as Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for European Affairs on the National Security Council. Prior to this, she served as Staff Director of the Senate Armed Services Committee. Earlier in her career, she served as Minority Staff Director of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence and as National Security Advisor to Senator John Warner. Ms. Ansley received her bachelor's degree from Tufts University and her master's degree from the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy.
The President has named Andrew D. Ciafardini, of Ohio, to be Special Assistant to the President for Intergovernmental Affairs. Mr. Ciafardini previously served as Government-to-Citizen Portfolio Manager in the Office of E-Gov & IT at the Office of Management and Budget. He received his bachelor's degree from George Mason University.
The President has named Harold H. Kim, of Nevada, to be Special Assistant to the President for Legislative Affairs. Mr. Kim previously served as Deputy Chief Counsel of the Committee on the Judiciary of the United States Senate. He received his bachelor's degree from the University of California and his JD from the Catholic University of America.
The President has named Brett H. McGurk, of the District of Columbia, to be Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for Iraq and Afghanistan, Strategic Planning and Policy Development, on the National Security Council. Mr. McGurk previously served as Director for Iraq on the National Security Council. He received his bachelor's degree from the University of Connecticut and his JD from Columbia University School of Law.
The President has named Stephen D. Potts, of Maryland, to be Associate Counsel to the President. Mr. Potts previously served as Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Ethics Resource Center. He received his bachelor's degree and his LLB from Vanderbilt University.
The President has named Rachael Leigh Sunbarger, of Texas, to be Special Assistant to the President and Deputy Director of Advance for Press. Ms. Sunbarger previously served as Senior Press Advance Representative in the Office of Presidential Advance. She received her bachelor's degree from the University of Texas.
The President has named Ronald C. Williams, of Virginia, to be Special Assistant to the President for Homeland Security and Senior Director for Nuclear Defense Policy on the Homeland Security Council. Mr. Williams previously served as Senior Policy Advisor for the Weapons of Mass Destruction Directorate at the Federal Bureau of Investigation. He received his bachelor's degree from Kansas State University and his master's degrees from the Air Force Institute of Technology and the University of Southern California.
  