
    MANCHESTER, NH -- U.S. Senator John McCain's presidential campaign today announced Maine Small Business Leaders for John McCain. Dozens of Maine small business owners endorsed McCain's economic plan today, joining business leaders across the country who have praised his Jobs for America plan to grow the economy as president.
"Small businesses are the heart and soul of Maine's economy," said Rep. Josh Tardy, co-owner of Moosehead Manufacturing in Monson, who serves as vice chair of John McCain 2008 in Maine and is the House Republican Leader. "Ninety percent of Maine's businesses are small. We cannot allow the policies of a Barack Obama administration to get in the way of growing existing small businesses and creating new ones. John McCain is the clear choice for president. His agenda for small businesses will help get our national economy and Maine's economy back on track, and create more opportunities for job growth all over the country."
Maine Small Business Leaders for John McCain gathered today in Portland to explain why McCain is the best candidate for the state's small business community. Highlighting the fact that small business is the backbone of Maine's economy, the group will work on a person-to-person basis to spread the word about McCain's pro-growth economic vision.
Rep. Meredith Strang Burgess, CEO of Burgess Advertising in Portland and a Maine State Representative, said, "The small business community in Maine has a strong voice. This coalition represents a remarkable effort and we will work hard in the coming months to elect John McCain president. The choice for change is clear -- Maine small businesses and Maine families cannot afford crushing tax policies and spending plans proposed by Barack Obama. We cannot afford to choose the kind of change that would put government in our way -- we need a government that is on our side, and our choice is John McCain for president."
"For my industry, the building and contracting industry, electing John McCain is a top priority," said Doug Newman, Owner of Newman Concrete Services in Richmond. "This is an election for change. John McCain represents the kind of change small businesses and Maine families need."
Today in Denver, Colorado John McCain announced his Jobs for America economic plan, kicking off five days of economic themed activity in critical battleground states.
MAINE SMALL BUSINESS LEADERS FOR JOHN MCCAIN
Paul J. McKenney, McKenney Financial, Portland
Rep. Richard Cebra, Steamboat Landing Mini Golf & Ice Cream, Naples
Rep. Mike Thibodeau, TB Equipment, Bangor
Sen. Jon Courtney, Courtney Cleaners, Sanford
Lois Bloomer, Bloomer Agency, Hermon
Gregory Lovley, Newport Motorsports, Newport
Sen. Kevin Raye and Karen Raye, Raye Mustard, Perry
Rep. Josh Tardy, Moosehead Manufacturing, Monson
Rep. Kerri Prescott, Kerriuma Designz, Topsham
Kathy Watson , Kathy Watson Company, Pitttsfield
John Watson, Stetson and Watson, Pitttsfield
Frank and Suzie Calvery, Calvery Farms, Cl inton
Phil Roy, PR Construction, Fairfield
Barry Worcester, Aquatic Technology, Inc., Vassalboro
Douglas Calderbank, Calderbank Investigations, Inc., Portland
Rep. Meredith Strang Burgess, Burgess Advertising, Portland
Jeff and Jane Flynn, Flynn & Co. Real Estate, South Portland
Rodney Whittemore, Whittemore and Sons, Skowhegan
Doug Newman, Newman Concrete Services, Richmond
Clayton Haskell, Pleasant River Farm, Windham
Charlie Webster, Webster Heating, Farmington
Ken Fredette, Law Offices of Ken Fredette, Newport
Hon. Adam Mack, Minat Development, Portland
Rep. J ohn Robinson, Robinson Manufacturing Co., Oxford
Andre Cushing, Colonial Contracting Co, Hampden
Dana Edwards, Edwards Family Shop and Save, Hampden, Dover-Foxcroft, Unity
Hon. Jean Ginn Marvin, Nonantum Resort, Kennebunkport
Hon. Bob Carr, Applied Thermal Sciences, Scarborough
Hon. Phil Harriman, Lebel & Harriman, LLP, Falmouth
Reginald Faulkner, R.D. Faulkner, Brewer
Roger Lambert , Windowman LLC, Farmington
  