
    Just over a month after launching his campaign for President, Jeb made a visit to Silicon Valley, the tech capital of the world. The visit was fitting for a man some calledthe "eGovernor." A man who insisted his blackberry make it into his official portrait. And a man who now wears an Apple Watch to check Twitter throughout the day.
The Governor embraced the Silicon Valley experience in full.
He kicked off the trip by setting the record straight on his tech favorites, noting he now prefers the iPhone to the Blackberry:

Next, he launched a LinkedIn profile, joining as a LinkedIn Influencer, an invite-only group comprised of ~500 of the world's top thought leaders. He published a post on the site called "Disrupting Washington to Unleash Innovators."
"As a newcomer to LinkedIn and a recent entrant to the presidential race, I wanted to take this opportunity to build our network and share my views about issues that matter to all Americans — especially those active on LinkedIn. Specifically, where are the emerging opportunities in our economy, and how will we turn those opportunities into more full-time jobs and higher incomes for everyone who wants the opportunity to rise up?"
Read the full LinkedIn post here.
Then, Jeb said "no" to the local government taxi cab cartel and "yes" to Uber.

  Rode shotgun in @Uber this morning to @Thumbtack here in SF. 5 stars for Munir pic.twitter.com/Xg0BeZBgJA
— Jeb Bush (@JebBush) July 16, 2015

The Uber dropped him off at a San Francisco startup company called Thumbtack, an online marketplace that helps connect local service providers with potential clients. Jeb toured the company, spoke with its employees, and answered a number of questions.
Appropriately, the event was Periscoped by Carla Marinucci, a political reporter for the San Francisco Chronicle. Jeb used to email with her when he was Governor.

  15 years indeed (!) since you sent me that letter talking about how internet is revolutionizing politics https://t.co/PcCUuTDek8
— Carla Marinucci (@cmarinucci) July 16, 2015

Throughout the day, Jeb's message was clear: In order to unleash the vast potential of America's innovators, we must disrupt Washington. Companies like Thumbtack and Uber cause mental dissonance for people — like Hillary Clinton — who think they can plan the future of the economy from Washington D.C.
A full day in Silicon Valley. Done the right way.
  