
    "We are witnessing a national agenda that is about a full-on attack against hard-won, hard-fought freedoms and rights," said Vice President Harris during today's moderated conversation in Des Moines.
DES MOINES – Vice President Kamala Harris returned to Iowa today where she called out extremists for their dangerous abortion bans and pledged to continue fighting for reproductive freedom across America. During a moderated conversation with Jennifer Palmieri, Co-Host of Showtime's The Circus, the Vice President opposed the state's unpopular efforts to enact an extreme abortion ban, lifted up stories of those impacted by this health care crisis, outlined the Biden-Harris Administration's ongoing work to protect access to reproductive rights, and reiterated her call for Congress to pass federal legislation that restores the protections of Roe v. Wade.
"We are witnessing a national agenda that is about a full-on attack against hard-won, hard-fought freedoms and rights," said Vice President Harris. "The Court took away the freedom and the right of people to make decisions about their own body. Congress can put it back by codifying Roe v. Wade, which means putting back into law the protections of Roe v. Wade. And Joe Biden will sign it…and undo the kinds of things that are being proposed here and in many other states."
Vice President Harris also elevated the maternal health crisis and underscored the impact that these extreme abortion bans are having on women's lives. "Laws are being passed that make no exception for rape or incest…that's immoral," said the Vice President. "Of all wealthy nations, we, the United States of America has the highest rate of maternal mortality. I said hypocrisy because all these people who are pushing these bans – and they suggest that it is because they care about mothers and children – have been silent on the issue of maternal mortality."
The Vice President's conversation at Drake University in Des Moines comes after extremists in the state enacted a ban – currently blocked by an Iowa judge – that would outlaw abortion before many women know they are pregnant. A poll by the Des Moines Register found that 61 percent of Iowa adults, including 70 percent of Iowa women, believe abortion should be legal in all or most cases. Today's event also followed a March visit to the state where Vice President Harris convened a discussion with health care providers, patients, local leaders, and advocates about attacks on reproductive rights throughout the nation.
Read more about today's event below:
Des Moines Register: VP Kamala Harris criticizes abortion bans, urges Iowa to expand Medicaid for new mothers
The vice president, making her second visit to Iowa since ascending to the post, focused on abortion rights and restrictions in a discussion at Drake University […] "Women in our country are having miscarriages in toilets," Harris said, decrying Republican-led efforts in Iowa and other states to restrict abortion to the early weeks of pregnancy. "Laws are passed that make no exceptions for cases of rape and incest. … How dare these supposed leaders decide they're in a better position to tell (a woman) what's in her best interest than she is to know."
A law that aims to ban abortion after roughly six weeks of pregnancy in Iowa is currently blocked but awaiting arguments and a ruling from the state Supreme Court. Earlier this year, a nearly identical law passed in 2018 was struck down after the court deadlocked.
[…] She argued that restrictions on abortion were part of a "national agenda" by Republicans that also include proposals to limit school curriculum, curb discussion of LGBTQ issues and reinforce voting rights requirements. And Harris criticized Iowa specifically for declining to expand Medicaid coverage for up to a year post-pregnancy, as a majority of states adopt the policy backed by federal funds.
CNN: Vice President Kamala Harris paid a visit to Iowa today to talk about abortion rights
Democrats here feel that it is issues like abortion where they feel that the public majority is on their side. They are deploying the Vice President...and particularly potent here because Iowa's governor recently signed a six-week abortion ban…while this issue of abortion is being debated here, the Democrats, and specifically the Vice President, view this as a winning national issue.
NBC Iowa: Vice President Kamala Harris promises to protect abortion rights in Des Moines visit
Vice President Kamala Harris is visiting Des Moines on Friday to host a discussion on abortion rights and the Biden-Harris administration's efforts to protect reproductive freedom. […] The trip comes two weeks after Governor Kim Reynolds signed the so-called 'fetal heartbeat' law that bans abortions as soon as six weeks after conception – before many women know they are pregnant.
Radio Iowa: Top politicians from GOP and Democratic Parties in Iowa today - Radio Iowa
Vice President Kamala Harris spoke at an event at Drake University early this afternoon and criticized Iowa's new fetal heartbeat law. Harris said America "is stronger when rights are expanded, rather than restricted" and women don't need to be told by their government what's best for them."One does not have to abandon their faith or deeply held beliefs to agree that the government should not be telling her what to do," Harris said.
ABC Iowa: Vice President Kamala Harris returns to Des Moines to discuss reproductive rights
Vice President Kamala Harris is in Des Moines Friday to discuss reproductive rights in the state. Harris will meet with health care providers, patients, local leaders and abortion advocates in Iowa. The discussion is the latest in a series of meetings Harris has held in the aftermath of the U.S. Supreme Court decision to overturn Roe v. Wade.
ABC: Candidates converge on Iowa for a week full of events
Meanwhile, across town, Vice President Kamala Harris will attend a roundtable discussion about abortion rights with local activists. Iowa recently enacted a law that would ban abortion as early as six weeks of pregnancy, before most people know that they are pregnant. The law is currently blocked as a legal challenge moves through the courts.
NBC: Iowa is the place to be
While DeSantis and a crowded GOP field jockey for Iowans' attention, Vice President Kamala Harris will attend a separate event across town with local figures who favor expanding abortion access. The event comes weeks after Iowa's GOP Gov. Kim Reynolds signed a bill banning abortion after six weeks of pregnancy. The law was later put on hold by a judge.
  