
    "President Obama may want voters to think he's hard at work and has 'a lot on his plate,' but it seems the only thing he's working on is his golf game. After 11 rounds of golf, 120 fundraisers and zero meetings with his Jobs Council over the past six months, it's clear that President Obama is only working to save one job, his own." — Ryan Williams, Romney Campaign Spokesman
Today, President Obama Is Playing Yet Another Round Of Golf:
CBS's Mark Knoller: "Pres Obama Back At Ft. Belvoir Today For Round Of Golf With A Few Of His Aides. It's 85° And Cloudy. Chance Of Thunderstorms. Humidity 55%." (Mark Knoller, Twitter Feed, 7/29/12)
In The Past Six Months, President Obama Has Held No Meetings With His Jobs Council With White House Advisers Claiming He Has "Got A Lot On His Plate":
President Obama Has Not Met With His Jobs Council In The Past Six Months "President Barack Obama is at odds with some of his handpicked outside advisers on hot-button election topics such as regulations and corporate taxes. Many of the recommendations at issue stem from the president's Council on Jobs and Competitiveness, a group of business and labor leaders with whom Mr. Obama hasn't met in six months." (Carol E. lee and John D. McKinnon, "Jobs Council Is Sidelined As President Courts Voters," The Wall Street Journal, 7/18/12)


    FLASHBACK: At His Last Jobs Council Meeting, President Obama Boasted About "How Focused And How Hard-Working" His Jobs Council Was, Claiming That It Was Not A "Show Council." OBAMA: "One of the things that's been striking about this Jobs Council is how focused and how hard-working everybody has been around this table. This has not been a show council. This has been a work council. And because of the extraordinary commitments that each and every one of you have made, we have generated I think as good a set of proposals as we have seen coming out of the private sector to help to guide and steer our economic agenda and our approach to jobs and growth over the next couple of years." (President Barack Obama, Opening And Closing Remarks By The President To The Council On Jobs And Competitiveness , Washington, DC, 1/17/12)
  

White Press Secretary Jay Carney Says President Obama Has Not Met With His Jobs Council In Six Months Because He Has "Got A Lot On His Plate." REPORTER: "So there's no reason they [the Jobs Council] haven't met publicly?" WHITE HOUSE PRESS SECRETARY JAY CARNEY: "No, there's no specific reason except the President's obviously got a lot on his plate." (White House Press Conference, Washington, D.C., 7/18/12)
What's On President Obama's Plate? He's Played 11 Rounds Of Golf, Attended 120 Fundraisers, Held Weekly Campaign Meetings And Filmed Ads For His Re-Election In The West Wing:
President Obama Has Played 11 Rounds Of Golf Since His Last Jobs Council Meeting. (PolitiFact.com, 7/19/12; Mark Knoller, Twitter Feed, 7/29/12)
President Obama Has Attended 120 Campaign Fundraisers Since His Last Jobs Council Meeting. (National Journal's "Daybook," 7/26/12; Mark Knoller, Twitter Feed, 7/27/12)
"On Most Sunday Evenings" Obama Meets With A "Tight Circle Of Advisers Who Gather For A Confidential Briefing On His Reelection." "President Obama walks into the Roosevelt Room of the White House and takes his seat around a table. The West Wing, as on most Sunday evenings, is quiet except for the tight circle of advisers who gather for a confidential briefing on his re-election." (Jeff Zeleny, "On Sundays, Tight Obama Circle Sizes Up Election," The New York Times, 5/4/12)
Campaign Finance Experts And Good Government Groups Agree That Obama's Decision To Film His Latest Campaign Commercial In The West Wing Was "Not Particularly Commendable."  "President Obama's newest campaign commercial was filmed inside the West Wing of the White House, an act that campaign finance experts and good government groups generally agreed was legal if not particularly commendable." (Jake Tapper, "New Obama Ad Was Filmed In The West Wing," ABC News, 7/24/12)
Meanwhile, Millions Of Americans Are Struggling For Work And Suffering In "The Worst Economic Recovery America Has Ever Had:
CBS News: We Are Experiencing "The Worst Economic Recovery America Has Ever Had." CBS' SCOTT PELLEY: "Good evening. This is the worst economic recovery America has ever had. We'd been looking for hopeful signs, but today the chairman of the Federal Reserve threw a cold splash of reality on those hopes." ("CBS Evening News," 7/17/12)
More Than Twenty-Three Million Americans Are Either Unemployed, Underemployed Or Have Given Up Looking For Work. (Bureau Of Labor Statistics, Accessed 7/25/12)
"New Government Figures Show Economic Growth Is Slowing, Not Picking Up Speed — Meaning Obama Will Continue To Face Economic Headwinds." (Tom Raum, "The Race: Economic Report Unwelcome News For Obama," The Associated Press, 7/27/12)
"The Slowest Growth In A Year Adds To Worries That The Economy Could Be Stalling Three Years After The Recession Ended." "The U.S. economy grew at an annual rate of just 1.5 percent from April through June, as Americans cut back sharply on spending. The slowest growth in a year adds to worries that the economy could be stalling three years after the recession ended." ("Economic Growth Slowed To 1.5 Percent Rate In 2nd Quarter, Slowest In A Year," The Associated Press, 7/27/12)
"Weaker Hiring, Nervous Consumers, Sluggish Manufacturing And The Overhang Of Europe's Debt Crisis Might Be Pointing Toward Everyone's Big Fear: Another Recession." "A U.S. economy that plodded along in the first three months of the year likely grew even less in the April-June quarter. And most economists no longer think growth will strengthen much in the second half of 2012. Weaker hiring, nervous consumers, sluggish manufacturing and the overhang of Europe's debt crisis might be pointing toward everyone's big fear: another recession." ("Economists Think Another Recession Is Possible," The Associated Press, 7/27/12)
  