
    President Walesa. I'd like to state once again that we owe a great deal to America. We'd like to pay tribute to the President and try to do everything to retain the interest of the States and of Mr. President, and at the same time making it as good as possible for America.
American involvement in leading towards democracy was great. And in Poland, American involvement is necessary for Europe. We simply cannot envisage Europe without an American presence.
It is not safe at all here after the dismantling of the Soviet Union, only today the dangers are somewhat different. And I am convinced that without U.S. presence we won't make it at all. That is why I wish to thank the President and to thank America for everything that Central Europe has achieved, particularly in this very special moment, and hoping for the presence of the President and of America in order for us to be successful. It can be successful; it can be great business; however, only if we do it together.
Once more I wish to welcome you most cordially, Mr. President, and your delegation. And I would wish you less problems with this part of the world.
President Bush. And may I just respond and tell the Polish side here what I've just told President Walesa, and that is we have every intention of remaining involved. We appreciate the President's understanding of the importance of NATO. And we feel that a vigorous trade between Poland and the United States is in our interests as well as Poland's.
So I told the President we would do everything we can to keep the United States involved, to keep a strong NATO, to stay in touch on the security side of things, and then to figure out what we can do to go forward on the trade matters because we think he has properly assessed the security concerns and economic concerns in Europe, and we want to continue to be helpful. And we will be. We will be.
There is a great affection in the United States for Poland, as you know from your own visits there. And the fact that Poland wants us to do what we're doing, stay involved, try to be constructive partners, that's very helpful for the United States, too. So thank you for your hospitality.
  