
    Musical great Quincy Jones announced his endorsement of Hillary Clinton in a video tribute this afternoon during a luncheon which brought together over 200 African American men who support Hillary Clinton's candidacy for president. In the video, Mr. Jones speaks eloquently about the depth and longevity of their friendship and his belief in her ability to lead our nation.
"Hillary Clinton is one of my favorite ladies on this planet who I've known for a long, long time and who I believe in and will go to the ends of the earth for... I have known her as a human being and have been around her in every kind of situation ... she and I have shared thoughts very intimately, and I've always admired and appreciated that ... I have always had an honest response from her with anything we've ever talked about. I see her for who she is and she has the vision, courage and most importantly she has the experience ... we have very few people that can take us to the next level. The one that can take us there in the 21st Century is Hillary!"
In addition to Mr. Jones' video endorsement, supporters heard from other distinguished participants from across the nation, including New York Congressman Charles B. Rangel, Chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee and Dean of the New York State Congressional Delegation; Trenton, New Jersey Mayor Douglas H. Palmer, President of the U.S. Conference of Mayors and co-chair of the Clinton campaign's Mayors Council; Robert L. Johnson, owner of the NBA Charlotte Bobcats and founder of BET; Bishop Tavis Grant, Pastor of the Greater First Church International in Chicago; South Carolina State Senator Darrell Jackson (District 21); and Attorney Willie E. Gary who also announced his endorsement for Senator Clinton at the lunch.
"I was truly touched by Quincy's tribute and endorsement today," said Clinton. His elegant and thoughtful words are an inspiration to all of us. I have known Quincy for many years and appreciate his friendship and his support for my candidacy."
Quincy Jones is an American music impresario, conductor, record producer, musical arranger, film composer and trumpeter. During his five decades in the entertainment industry, Jones has earned more than 70 Grammy Awards, and a Grammy Legend Award in 1991. He is best known as the co-producer of two of the top-selling records of all time: the album Thriller, by pop-icon Michael Jackson, and the charity song "We Are the World".
The campaign has posted the video on its Web site. To view the video, [Click here].
  