
    In response to the extreme heat conditions now affecting many parts of the United States, the President has directed the Community Services Administration (CSA), the Federal Government's antipoverty agency, to make available $6.725 million to assist low-income individuals, especially the elderly, who are facing life threatening situations.
The funds will be made available through CSA's network of Community Action Agencies. Eligible activities include transportation to local- and State-operated heat relief centers, purchase or rental of low-cost appliances, such as fans and window air-conditioning units, to reduce heat, payment of utility bills, as well as the provision of other supportive services which will reduce the potential hazard to the health of low-income persons resulting from extreme heat. To receive assistance with these funds, a household must demonstrate that it has a total income at or below 125 percent of the Federal poverty guidelines, which is approximately $9,300 for a family of four.
The States earmarked to receive funds immediately are Texas, Arkansas, Oklahoma, Missouri, Kansas, and Louisiana. The amount of assistance to be provided to each State is: Texas, $2.5 million; Arkansas and Oklahoma, $1 million each; Louisiana and Kansas will receive $500,000; and Missouri will receive $1.25 million. These funds are being allocated on the basis of the number of elderly poor in the respective States and the counties to be served.
The President has also directed Secretary of Agriculture Bob Bergland to report to him on the effects of the drought on agriculture and on those measures being taken to provide economic relief. The current weather conditions have had a particularly severe impact on the agriculture of that region. A variety of assistance is available, including emergency livestock feed assistance, conservation assistance, disaster payments, emergency loans, and crop insurance. The President directed the Secretary to ensure that this assistance is made available in a timely and effective manner.
Finally, the President has directed John Macy, Director of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), to coordinate the Federal response to this situation and to meet with representatives of State government in the affected regions to ensure that Federal assistance is closely coordinated with that from other units of government. Meetings will be held later this week in Dallas, Kansas City, and Denver for this purpose.
  