
    Dear Mr. Speaker: (Dear Mr. Chairman:)
In accordance with Public Law 95-384, I am submitting to you a bimonthly report on progress toward a negotiated settlement of the Cyprus question.
In my last report, I noted that on March 29 the United Nations Secretary General gave Greek and Turkish Cypriot representatives a draft framework agreement. That draft agreement contained an outline for an overall settlement and a specified process with summit meetings and working groups for reaching that desirable goal. Acceptance of the agreement would have led to immediate negotiations on all the outstanding issues, including such key questions as troop withdrawal, guarantees, and the "three freedoms" (freedom of settlement, freedom of movement, and the right to property).
During the period since my last report, American officials have continued their active efforts in support of the Secretary General's approach. It remains our view that his initiative presents the leaders of the two Cypriot communities with an historic opportunity to begin a process toward peace and reconciliation. We have continued to express our hope that they would embark on this path. We also stated our view that the Secretary General's "integrated-whole" concept, under which "nothing is final until everything is final," would protect the interests of the parties throughout the negotiating process envisioned in the recent framework agreement.
The Turkish Cypriots have accepted the March 29 draft framework agreement. The Greek Cypriots have not accepted the document and instead have proposed the convening of an international conference or a high-level meeting between the leaders of the two Cypriot communities. The Secretary General summarized his view of the current situation in a June 11 report to the Security Council, which I have attached. He stated that since one side is not yet in a position to accept the March 29 draft framework agreement, the way is not yet open to proceed with the negotiations he has proposed for an overall solution. He added that, under the circumstances, the way forward will require careful reflection by all concerned.
We continue to believe that the Secretary General's effort offers the best prospect for achieving progress toward a just and lasting Cyprus settlement. The Secretary General will have our full confidence and support as he proceeds with his good offices mission. We urge the parties to work constructively with him in order to move forward toward a negotiated solution.
Sincerely,
RONALD REAGAN
  