
    Memorandum for the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency 
Subject: Designation of Officers of the Environmental Protection Agency
By the authority vested in me as President under the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America and pursuant to the Federal Vacancies Reform Act of 1998, 5 U.S.C. 3345 et seq. (the "Act"), I hereby order that:
Section 1. Order of Succession. 
During any period in which the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency (Administrator), the Deputy Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, and the officers designated by Executive Order 13261 of March 19, 2002, entitled, "Providing an Order of Succession in the Environmental Protection Agency and Amending Certain Orders on Succession," as amended, to perform the functions and duties of the Administrator have died, resigned, or otherwise become unable to perform the functions and duties of the office of Administrator, the following officers of the Environmental Protection Agency, in the order listed, shall perform the functions and duties of the office of Administrator, if they are eligible to act as Administrator under the provisions of the Act, until such time as at least one of the officers mentioned above is able to perform the functions and duties of the office of Administrator:
Regional Administrator, Region I; and
Deputy Regional Administrator, Region IV.
Section 2. Exceptions. 

(a)      No individual who is serving in an office listed in section 1 in an acting capacity, by virtue of so serving, shall act as Administrator pursuant to this memorandum.
(b)  Notwithstanding the provisions of this memorandum, the President retains discretion, to the extent permitted by the Act, to depart from this memorandum in designating an acting Administrator.      
Section 3. Prior Memorandum Superceded. 
This memorandum supercedes the Presidential Memorandum of March 19, 2002, entitled, "Designation of Officers of the Environmental Protection Agency."
GEORGE W. BUSH 
  