
    Pool Reports by Courtney Subramanian, Los Angeles Times 



Sent:
Reports:




July 25, 2023 12:08

In-town pool #1 - Gathering for proclamation 
Good morning,
We're gathering at the stakeout for the first public event on POTUS' schedule today.
At 12pm he'll sign a proclamation to establish the Emmett Till and Mamie Till-Mobley National Monument in Illinois and Mississippi in the Indian Treaty Room. The VP will also participate.
The new national monument will be anchored at three historic sites in Chicago, Illinois; Sumner, Mississippi; and just outside of Glendora, Mississippi
Later: POTUS will deliver remarks on expanding access to mental health care at 3pm. Karine Jean-Pierre will brief at 3:30pm. 
Please reach out with any questions. 


July 25, 2023 12:22

In-town pool report #2 - Two-minute warning
Two minutes.
There are about 60 people seated in the Indian Treaty Room in EEOB. Guests include members of the Till family, civil rights leaders, and historic preservation advocates.
You can stream POTUS' remarks here. https://www.whitehouse.gov/live/
Your pooler will send any notable color from the rooms 


July 25, 2023 12:31

In-town pool report #3 - VP/ POTUS speaks
POTUS and VP Harris entered the room at 12:22pm ET along with Reverend Wheeler Parker, Jr., a member of the Till Family.
The VP spoke first. "Our history as a nation is born with the tragedy of struggle and success. That is who we are," she said. "We will be better, if we remember. We will be stronger if we remember."
She introduced Rev. Parker, who she said is celebrating his wedding anniversary this weekend. The reverend introduced the president and hugged him before POTUS stepped up to the podium.
He began speaking at 12:29pm.
You can stream here:
https://www.whitehouse.gov/live/
Per WH:
In attendance for the President's remarks and signing of the proclamation to establish the Emmett Till and Mamie Till-Mobley National Monument in Illinois and Mississippi.
Senator Tammy Duckworth (IL) Rep. Jim Clyburn (SC-6)  Rep. Bennie Thompson (MS-2)  Rep. Danny K. Davis (IL-7)  Rep. Hank Johnson (GA-4)  Rep. Andre Carson (IN-7)  Rep. Robin Kelly (IL-2)  Rep. Brad Schneider (IL-10)  Rep. Steven Horsford (NV-4)  Rep. Lauren Underwood (IL-14)  Rep. Jonathan Jackson (IL-1)  Ali Zaidi, Assistant to the President & National Climate Advisor Emmy Ruiz, Assistant to the President & Director of the Office of Political Strategy and Outreach Stephen Benjamin, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President & Director of the Office of Public Engagement Neera Tanden, Assistant to the President & Domestic Policy Advisor John Podesta, Senior Advisor to the President for Clean Energy Innovation Chair Brenda Mallory, Council on Environmental Quality Civil rights leaders, historic preservation advocates, and White House staff
Signing Participants: The President The Vice President Reverend Wheeler Parker, Jr., Member of the Till Family Dr. Marvel Parker, Executive Director of the Emmett Till & Mamie Till-Mobley Institute and Member of the Till Family Chair Brenda Mallory, Council on Environmental Quality Deputy Secretary Tommy Beaudreau, Department of the Interior Director Chuck Sams, National Park Service Ollie Gordon, Member of the Till Family Deborah Watts, Member of the Till Family, Co-Founder, Executive Director & President of the Emmett Till Legacy Foundation Chris Benson, President of the Emmett Till & Mamie Till-Mobley Institute
Speaking Program The Vice President Reverend Wheeler Parker, Jr. The President 


July 25, 2023 12:53

In-town pool report #4 - Till event ends
POTUS said it was hard hold back his anger while he was preparing his remarks. He spoke of Mamie Till-Mobley's courage in choosing to let the world see what happened to her son by having an open-casket funeral.
"Only with truth comes healing, justice, repair and another step forward towards a more perfect union"
"Silence is complicity. I will not be silent nor will you be silent about it," he said.
He made a reference to GOP efforts to ban books.
"At a time when there are those who seek to ban books, bury history, we're making it clear - crystal, crystal clear. While darkness and denial can hide much, they erase nothing. We can't just choose to learn what we want to know. We have to learn what we should know."
He said another hero in this story was the Black press. They were "unflinching" in covering this story.
He quoted Ida B Wells: "The way to right wrongs is to shine the light of truth upon them."
"It was barbaric, barbaric what happened, POTUS said.
"To all you moms out there, imagine the courage it took to let them see."
Said it's his honor to sign the proclamation, adding that we "need to keep pushing" and promising to continue to make process.
He stopped speaking at 12:38pm and walked over to a desk next to the podium. The VP stood behind him along with members of the family, administration members and members of Congress.
He signed the proclamation at 12:40 pm. and handed the pen to one of the attendees.
"Hail to the Chief" began playing as he greeted the guests and shook hands while seated at the desk. He rose and continued to talk to attendees before walking over to other guests to chat on the far side of the room. He spoke to Rev. Parker briefly and waved to the photographers stationed on the balcony above. POTUS exited at 12:44pm ET.
Please check quotes against transcript. 


July 25, 2023 13:24

In-town pool report #5 - Lunch lid
Lunch lid until 2:30pm ET. 


July 25, 2023 15:09

In-town pool report #6 - Gathering for mental health remarks
Pool is gathering at the Palm Room doors for POTUS' remarks on expanding access for mental health. 


July 25, 2023 15:19

In-town pool report #7 - Mental health event
The WH called two minutes at 3:12pm and the president entered at 3:13pm ET. Sen. Debbie Stabenow is speaking first.
There are about 200 people seated in the East Room for the president's remarks.
You can watch the event here: https://www.whitehouse.gov/live/ 


July 25, 2023 15:49

In-town pool report #8 - POTUS remarks
POTUS stood to the left of the podium along with Richele Keas from the National Alliance on Mental Illness. She shared her story of her struggle to seek access to mental health care for her daughter before introducing POTUS.
POTUS hugged Keas before he began speaking at 3:23pm ET.
He said her story is one millions of people share. He thanked Sen. Stabenow and said, "we wouldn't be here if it weren't for Debbie." He also thanked acting Sec. Julie Su, who was in the crowd. Pool also spotted former Rep. Patrick Kennedy.
On his administration's push for greater health insurance coverage to include mental health programs, POTUS said, "It's essential to be people's well-being."
"I don't know what the difference between breaking your arm and having a mental breakdown is. It's health," he said. "There's no distinction. It's health."
Says mental health care and treatment for substance abuse is out of reach for most Americans.
"We must fulfill the promise for mental health parity for all Americans."
He announced new steps his administration is taking to dramatically increase access to mental health care.
POTUS said improving mental health means addressing the "three C's": Coverage, care and causes. "Today we took a big step in coverage." Says we need to now address care and prevention.
"It's important for people to realize they're not alone," POTUS says, adding that mental health care can be life-saving and life-changing.
He stopped speaking at 3:38pm and immediately began working the rope line. He exited at 3:40 pm.
POTUS did not respond to shouted questions. It was hard to hear as "God Bless America" blared from the speakers. Two of the questions were whether he had an update on Trevor Reed and if he had spoken to Hunter Biden.
Please check quotes against transcript.
Per WH:
In attendance for the President's remarks on expanding access to mental health care: Acting Secretary Julie Su, Department of Labor Senator Debbie Stabenow (MI) Senator Tina Smith (MN) Rep. Grace Napolitano (CA-31)  Rep. Paul Tonko (NY-20)  Rep. Mark Takano (CA-39)  Rep. Robin Kelly (IL-02)  Rep. Don Beyer (VA-08)  Rep. Mark DeSaulnier (CA-10)  Rep. Debbie Dingell (MI-06)  Rep. Nanette Barragan (CA-44)  Rep. Susan Wild (PA-7)  Rep. Katie Porter (CA-47)  Rep. Madeleine Dean (PA-04)  Rep. Nikki Budzinski (IL-13)  Rep. Brittany Pettersen (CO-7)  Rep. Andrea Salinas (OR-6)  Director Rahul Gupta, Office of National Drug Control Policy Chair Maria Rosario Jackson, National Endowment for the ArtsChair Shelly Lowe, National Endowment for the Humanities Mental health care advocates, mental health care providers, union leaders, members of Biden-Harris administration, and White House staff
Speaking Program Senator Debbie Stabenow (MI) Richele Keas, Media Coordinator for the National Alliance on Mental Illness The President 


July 25, 2023 16:11

In-town pool report #9 - Two-minute warning on briefing
Two minutes as of 4:09 pm. 


July 25, 2023 16:14

In-town pool report #10 - Briefing begins
Karine Jean-Pierre took the podium at 4:12 pm.
You can watch here:  https://www.whitehouse.gov/live/ 


July 25, 2023 16:57

In-town pool report #11 - briefing ends
The briefing ended at 4:53 pm. 


July 25, 2023 17:10

In-town pool report #12 - Lid
We have a lid at 5:08pm.
Have a great night! 


July 25, 2023 19:20

In-town pool report #13- phone call with UPS/Teamsters 
Per WH: The President spoke via phone with UPS President Carol Tomé and Teamsters President Sean O'Brien. He warmly congratulated both on reaching an agreement and thanked them for their hard work. During the call, the President pointed to their agreement as evidence that collective bargaining works and offered his best wishes for a smooth ratification. 



  