
    The President today declared a major disaster exists in the Commonwealth of Kentucky and ordered federal aid to supplement Commonwealth and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms, flooding, mud and rock slides, and tornadoes on June 14, 2003, and continuing.
The President's action makes Federal funding available to affected individuals in a 20-county area. The counties include Boyd, Breathitt, Carter, Clay, Elliott, Floyd, Greenup, Harlan, Johnson, Knott, Lawrence, Leslie, Letcher, Lewis, Magoffin, Martin, Owsley, Perry, Pike and Rowan.
Assistance can include grants for temporary housing and home repairs, low-cost loans to cover uninsured property losses, and other programs to help individuals and business owners recover from the effects of the disaster.
Federal funding also is available to Commonwealth and eligible local governments on a cost-share basis for the repair or replacement of public facilities damaged by the severe storms, flooding, mud and rock slides, and tornadoes in the counties of Boyd, Breathitt, Carter, Clay, Elliott, Floyd, Johnson, Knott, Knox, Lawrence, Leslie, Magoffin, Monroe, Montgomery, Owsley, Perry, Pike, and Rowan.
In addition, Federal funding is available on a cost-share basis for hazard mitigation measures.
Representing the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), Michael D. Brown, Under Secretary for Emergency Preparedness and Response, Department of Homeland Security, named Alexander S. Wells as the Federal Coordinating Officer for Federal recovery operations in the affected area.
Damage surveys are continuing in other areas, and additional counties may be designated for assistance after the assessments are completed.
Residents and business owners who sustained losses in the designated counties can begin applying for assistance tomorrow by calling 1-800-621-FEMA (3362), or 1-800-462-7585 (TTY) for the hearing and speech impaired. The toll-free telephone numbers will operate from 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. seven days a week until further notice.
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: FEMA (202) 646-4600.
  