
    There has been planning for a combined U.S.-Honduran military exercise to take place this year, but since planning is still underway, we cannot provide specifics at this time. The U.S. has conducted combined military exercises with Honduras and other nations in the world before and will do so again. This series of combined exercises involving U.S. and Latin American forces began in 1965. Such exercises pose no threat to any nation. They play a crucial role in training of troops and support personnel of our own forces and those of the host country.
The recent deployment of the U.S.S. Ranger carrier group in the Pacific is for training purposes and to demonstrate our interest in the Central American region. As plans for the joint exercise are developed, we will consult with Members of Congress.
We have consistently expressed our support for a political solution to the problems in Central America, not a military one. We fully support the proposals for a lessening of tensions in the region expressed in the Final Act of the San Jose Conference of last October. We support the Contadora process and other regional initiatives to ease tensions in the area. Ambassador [Richard B.] Stone, the President's special envoy, is currently on his third trip to the area and is conveying to the Governments of the Contadora Four countries of Colombia, Mexico, Venezuela, and Panama a Presidential message which conveys our continuing support to the Contadora process. The recent Presidential appointment of a National Bipartisan Commission on Central America is an additional indication of this government's long-term interest in that part of the world.
Our commitment to a political solution and to the strengthening of democracy and economic development in Central America is clear. Democracy and economic development, however, must have a basis in security, and our military aid to our allies, as well as our efforts to help them strengthen their own defensive capabilities, are designed to increase their security and thus shield the growth of democratic processes, economic development, dialog, and negotiations.
Our policy toward Central America is based on the four principles outlined by the President in his April 27 speech to the joint session of Congress: support for democracy, development, dialog, and the necessary military assistance to provide a shield for the first three. As a practical manner, all four aspects are interdependent, and we are continuing to evolve practical steps to implement all the facets of that policy.
  