
    
  In just over three months, campaign raises over $14.2 million and Super PACs raise over $37 million

HOUSTON, Texas – Supporters of Texas Senator Ted Cruz's presidential campaign have already raised more than $51 million, giving Cruz one of the strongest war chests among those running for president.
In just over 3 months, the campaign has raised more than $14.2 million from over 175,000 contributions, with an average contribution of $81. In the second quarter alone, the Cruz campaign raised roughly $10 million, which added on top of the record-breaking $4.3 million haul in the one week preceding Q2.
The final super PAC numbers have not yet been released, but in June the super PACs supporting Senator Cruz publicly announced that they had already raised over $37 million in support of his presidential campaign.
The aggregate total of over $51 million means that, along with Cruz's strong support from the conservative grassroots across the country, Cruz's campaign will have the resources, the manpower, and the energy to compete vigorously in all early state contests, as well as nationally in the Super Tuesday states on March 1st.
"The grassroots energy and support we are seeing is overwhelming," said Cruz. "In Iowa, New Hampshire, and South Carolina – and all across the country – we are seeing courageous conservatives coming together for real change. We're reassembling the Reagan coalition – from conservatives to libertarians to people of Faith – and with the help of so many supporters, we will be able to deliver our optimistic message all across the country."
Cruz's campaign had over 120,000 unique donors from all 50 states and 5 territories. In fact, Cruz has at least one or more donors in nearly half (48.1%) of the zip codes in America.
Cruz is consistently at the top of GOP leaders in social engagement, which is how modern campaigns find and target new and low-dollar donors. More than 1,182,175 unique visitors have come to Cruz's website, and since the campaign launch he has had over 31 million engagements on Facebook or Twitter.
On key indicators of support: breadth and depth of donors and social media engagement, the Cruz campaign has proven its inspiring message is resonating with the voters. Cruz noted "We are honored the American people have made such a strong endorsement of our campaign and the powerful movement it represents with their hard earned money. We commit to be good stewards of the resources they have entrusted us with to ensure every American is given the chance to join us in reigniting the Promise of America."
Cruz's eye-popping fundraising haul comes off of one of the most successful presidential launches in modern history. Cruz dominated the news cycle unlike any other GOP announcement, with more that one-in-four presidential mentions involving Cruz. Most competitors saw their mentions linger around one-in-ten.
  