
    "When President Obama says his policies 'worked,' he must be talking about his plans to make the price of energy 'necessarily skyrocket.' For three and a half years, President Obama has presided over 'a hodgepodge' of energy policies that have increased prices and cost American jobs. On Day One, Mitt Romney will reverse the President's job-destroying policies and finally implement an all-of-the-above energy plan." — Amanda Henneberg, Romney Campaign Spokesperson
Last Week, President Obama Claimed His Economic Policies Have "Worked":
President Obama: "We Tried Our Plan -- And It Worked." OBAMA: "Just like we've tried their plan, we tried our plan — and it worked. That's the difference. That's the choice in this election. That's why I'm running for a second term." (President Barack Obama, Remarks, Oakland, CA, 7/23/12)
But President Obama's Policies Haven't "Worked" — His Energy Plans Are Still "Just A Hodgepodge":
President Obama: "Our Energy Policy Still Is Just A Hodgepodge." OBAMA: "Our energy policy still is just a hodgepodge, and for all the progress we've made, we're not where we need to be in making sure that this is an energy-efficient economy that is running on all cylinders." (President Barack Obama, Remarks At DNC Event, Miami, FL, 6/13/11)
NBC's Chuck Todd: "No Issue That Has Been ... A Bigger Bust For The President Than Energy Policy In General." MSNBC's CHUCK TODD: "Very quickly, president's going down to Miami to give an energy speech. Nia, you've been with me, I feel like, on the front lines covering the president from the day he took office. There is no issue that has been a, I guess, a bigger bust for the president than energy policy in general. There's a lot of, we can come up with a lot of excuses as to why, but boy, it's just like you can't - he's made no progress." (MSNBC's "The Daily Rundown," 2/23/12)
And President Obama's Energy Policies Have Cost The Country Thousands Of Jobs And Will Cause Energy Prices To "Necessarily Skyrocket":
President Obama Continues To "Stand In The Way Of The Keystone XL Pipeline," Which Will Help Create Thousands Of American Jobs. "President Obama continues to stand in the way of the Keystone XL pipeline, though increasingly he's standing alone. ... Big Labor and Western Governors such as Montana Democrat Brian Schweitzer support the Keystone for the thousands of jobs it will create, which is adding to the pressure on Capitol Hill Democrats." (Editorial, "Democrats For Keystone," The Wall Street Journal, 4/20/12)
Since President Obama Took Office, The Price For A Gallon Of Regular Gasoline Has Increased From $1.85 When He Took Office To $3.49 Today. (Energy Information Administration, Accessed 7/29/12)
President Obama's Regulations Will "Effectively Prohibit New Coal-Fired Power Plants." "President Barack Obama's proposed emission rules for power plants effectively prohibit new coal- fired power plants, buttressing the nation's shift away from a power source that fueled the Industrial Revolution to cheap natural gas." (Mark Drajem, "Obama Power-Plant Rule Signals Demise Of 'Old King Coal,'" Bloomberg, 3/28/12)
President Obama's Crackdown On Coal Plants Will Raise Electricity Costs For Consumers. "Some utility officials said the new rules and others that the Obama administration plans to enact in the coming months could force the retirement of several coal plants. That, in turn, will raise electricity costs for consumers, said American Electric Power spokesman Pat Hemlepp." (Juliet Eilperin and Darryl Fears, "EPA To Impose New Power Plant Rules," The Washington Post, 7/7/11)


FLASHBACK: Candidate Obama, On His Cap-And-Trade Plan:"Under My Plan Of A Cap-And-Trade System, Electricity Rates Would Necessarily Skyrocket." OBAMA: "When I was asked earlier about the issue of coal, you know, under my plan of a cap and trade system, electricity rates would necessarily skyrocket. Even regardless of what I say about whether coal is good or bad. Because I'm capping greenhouse gases, coal power plants, you know, natural gas, you name it, whatever the plants were, whatever the industry was, uh, they would have to retrofit their operations. That will cost money. They will pass that money on to consumers."(Sen. Barack Obama, Interview With San Francisco Chronicle's Editorial Board, 1/17/08)


  