
    Davis is the 8th CBC Member to Endorse Harris
Following her campaign stops last week in Michigan and Indiana, U.S. Representative Danny K. Davis of Illinois is endorsing Kamala Harris for President. Serving the Seventh Congressional District of Illinois since 1996, Davis is the eighth member of the Congressional Black Caucus to back Harris' candidacy.
In his endorsement, Davis, a former educator and graduate of an HBCU, cited Harris' plans to close the teacher pay gap, strengthen the pipeline for Black educators and her recently released plan to invest $60 billion investment in HBCUs and other minority serving institutions.
"As a result of her leadership roles as District Attorney, Attorney General and U. S. Senator from California, Kamala has the leadership ability and skill to lead this nation," said Davis. "She has serious command of the issues, is a gifted communicator, and is filled with confidence which is necessary to inspire and motivate of the American people. She recognized that education is the key and is willing to adequately fund it, including their compensation and understands the need for criminal justice reform and will put serious emphasis on re-entry. She recognizes that health care ought to be a right and has pledged to work to make it so. History is constantly changing and that America is ready to elect its first woman President and Kamala Harris is prepared to be that woman."
"I'm excited and grateful to have Danny's support in this race," said Harris. "His career of public service in our nation's classrooms, local and federal government has made him a trusted leader to fight alongside me to solve for the challenges that keep working families up at night. That is exactly why my 3AM Agenda is focused on bold solutions that will have a direct and immediate effect on people's lives, paychecks, and health care."
Davis joins fellow Illinois U.S. Representative Bobby Rush, who serves as Illinois chairman, in endorsing Harris in the Democratic presidential primary. They join other CBC members Barbara Lee of California, Al Green of Texas, Alcee Hastings and Frederica Wilson of Florida, Lacy Clay of Missouri, and Jahana Hayes of Connecticut in supporting Harris' candidacy. Illinois will award over 150 delegates in the 2020 Democratic primary.
  