
    Steyer running to end corruption of our democracy by corporations and give more power to the American people

(San Francisco, July 9, 2019) — Progressive political activist and philanthropist Tom Steyer has announced his intention to seek the Democratic nomination for President of the United States of America. In a video released this morning, Steyer outlined his vision for the country and how we can address the pressing challenges facing Americans.
"Corporate money has corrupted our democracy and stripped Americans of our ability to determine our own future," said Steyer. "The only way for us to solve the urgent problems facing our country is to loosen the stranglehold that corporations have over our politicians and return political power to the American people."
"The other Democratic candidates for President have many great ideas that will absolutely move our country forward, but we won't be able to get any of those done until we end the hostile corporate takeover of our democracy," continued Steyer. "As an outsider, I've led grassroots efforts that have taken on big corporations and won results for people. That's not something you see a lot of from Washington these days. That's why I'm running for President."
Steyer's campaign will focus on solving two major crises – reforming our broken political system and saving our planet from the ravages of climate change. Over the next few weeks, he will announce a reform plan for our democracy that will push more power to the American people and away from big corporations, and release a climate change proposal to finally break through Washington inaction and start the process of healing our planet.
"If we can reduce the influence of corporate money in our democracy, and start to address the devastating impacts of climate change, we can unlock the full potential of the American people and finally solve the many challenges facing our country," said Steyer.
Steyer continued: "Since leaving my business seven years ago, I've devoted myself to fighting climate change, advocating for racial justice, and taking on big corporations. Through that work, I realized that together we can fix anything. If Washington won't take action to create a stronger, fairer democracy for all, then it's up to us."
Building on his success leading campaigns that have challenged the corporate takeover of our politics and having won victories on health care, education, and the environment for millions of Americans, Steyer plans to run a different kind of campaign. In addition to early primary states, he will take his message across the country because he believes that everyone's voice is important no matter where they are from. In the coming weeks, Steyer will kick off his campaign at events in South Carolina, Ohio, and California. He is also committed to ensuring President Trump doesn't get a "free ride" while he and the other Democrats are focused on the Primary Election.
"Together we will build a movement of young people, progressives, people of color, and working families to protect our democracy from the powerful and well-connected and give more power to the American people – where it belongs," said Steyer.
Outside of his campaign, Steyer remains committed to helping Democrats reclaim the White House no matter who wins the nomination. While he has resigned his leadership positions at both NextGen America and Need to Impeach to seek the Democratic presidential nomination, he has committed over $50 million through 2020 to ensure both organizations fulfill their missions.
NextGen America's grassroots campaign will be active through the end of the 2020 election to register and mobilize young voters, and to continue to partner with For Our Future to reach out to working families and people of color. Need to Impeach, the campaign Steyer founded to advocate for the removal of Donald Trump from office, will also continue operations and keep the pressure on members of Congress to begin an impeachment inquiry into Trump's offenses.
About Tom:
Tom Steyer left his successful investing business seven years ago to give his own money and all his time and energy to fighting for progressive causes. He soon became one of the country's leading forces in registering more young voters and voters of color, fighting climate change, working for racial justice, and helping secure better lives for all Americans. Tom has led a number of people-first, grassroots campaigns that have repeatedly defeated powerful special interests, beating big oil to win clean air laws, forcing big tobacco to pay its share of healthcare costs, and closing a billion-dollar corporate tax loophole to fund public schools.
Tom and his wife Kat Taylor were early signers of the Giving Pledge, a commitment to give the bulk of their fortune to good causes before they die. Tom's dedication to doing what is right comes from his parents. His father was a lawyer who prosecuted Nazis at the Nuremberg Trials; his mother was a journalist and teacher who volunteered to teach prisoners in New York City jails. Tom says his parents showed him the power of having the courage to do the right thing. Their greatest lesson, he says, was that our actions speak louder than our words – what we do is more important than what we say.
  