
    President Donald J. Trump today announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key positions in his Administration:
Donald Y. Yamamoto of Washington, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Federal Republic of Somalia.
Mr. Yamamoto is currently the Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary in the Bureau of African Affairs. Previously, he served as Acting Assistant Secretary in the Bureau of African Affairs. Over the course of his Foreign Service career, he served multiple tours in Africa, including as United States Ambassador to both Ethiopia and Djibouti. Mr. Yamamoto earned an A.B. and M.A from Columbia University and a M.S. from the National War College. He is the recipient of 22 awards from the State Department, including the Robert Frasure Memorial Award, a Presidential Distinguished Honor Award, a Presidential Distinguished Service Award, and a Secretary of State Distinguished Honor Award. Mr. Yamamoto speaks Japanese, Chinese and French.
Kevin K. Sullivan of Ohio, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Nicaragua.
Mr. Sullivan is currently the Deputy Permanent Representative to the United States Mission to the Organization of American States in Washington, D.C. Previously, he served as Deputy Chief of Mission/Chargé d'Affaires in Buenos Aires, Argentina and Deputy Chief of Mission at the United States Embassy in Lilongwe, Malawi. Over the course of his Foreign Service career, he served at six United States Missions overseas and in senior leadership positions at the Department of State. Mr. Sullivan earned a B.A. at Georgetown University and an M.A. from Princeton University. He is the recipient of the Council for American Studies "Puente de la Americas" Prize (Argentina). Mr. Sullivan speaks Spanish.
Kip Tom, of Indiana, to be accorded the rank of Ambassador during his tenure of service as United States Representative to the United Nations Agencies for Food and Agriculture at the Department of State.
Mr. Tom is the current chairman of Tom Farms in Leesburg, Indiana. His agribusiness experience includes work in North America, South America, Africa, Europe, the Middle East, and Asia. Mr. Tom serves on the boards of the Indiana Economic Development Corporation, the Indiana Chamber of Commerce, the Future Farmers of America Foundation, and the National 4-H Foundation. He is the recipient of the 2015 Agriculture Future of America Ag Leader of the Year Award.
Donald L. Palmer of Florida, to be a Member of the Election Assistance Commission, for the remainder of a four year term expiring December 12, 2021.
Mr. Palmer currently serves as a fellow with the Bipartisan Policy Center's (BPC) Democracy Project and as senior advisor with the Election Assistance Commission (EAC). Previously, he served as chief election official of the Commonwealth of Virginia and the director of elections with the Florida Department of State. Prior to his work in election administration, he served as a trial attorney with the Voting Section, Civil Rights Division, of the Department of Justice. Mr. Palmer also served as a U.S. Navy intelligence officer and Judge Advocate General. He earned his J.D from Stetson University College of Law.
President Donald J. Trump today announced his intent to appoint the following individual to a key position in his Administration:
Christine M. Ciccone of New Hampshire, to be an Assistant Secretary for Legislative Affairs at the Department of Homeland Security.
Ms. Ciccone currently serves as a senior advisor at the Department of Homeland Security. Previously, she served as a senior advisor and Deputy Chief of Staff at the Department of State.
Ms. Ciccone spent over a decade in the United States Senate serving in the office of Senator Warren Rudman of New Hampshire and as General Counsel and Appropriations Clerk for three different committees. She earned dual degrees in political science and economics from the University of New Hampshire, M.A. from the U.S. Naval War College, and J.D. from George Washington University.
  