
    Pool Reports by Nadia Bilbassy, Al-Arabiya 



Sent:
Reports:




July 25, 2023 12:40 CEST

FLOTUS Travel Pool #1 Paris, France Day 3
Bonjour from the Elysee palace.
Pool was holding in a press room inside the Elysee palace at 11 am for almost 15 minutes before we were escorted to the entrance .
FLOTUS's car arrived around 11:42 am. First Lady of France, Brigitte Macron was waiting to greet her, she was wearing a white dress with navy blue décolleté fabric.
When Dr Biden emerged from the car, Madame Macron went down the few steps to greet her, they hugged and kissed and chatted for less than minute before they went back to the entrance of the palace and posed for an official photo to the local and the traveling press.
Madame Macron asked Ashley Biden to join them for the official photo. Dr Biden was dressed in a red suit with gold buttons.
The greeting lasted around two minutes before the pool were escorted back to the vehicle, we are on our way to UNESCO building where FLOTUS will give her speech.
President Emmanuel Macron is currently out of the country on an official visit to New Caledonia.
FROM THE FIRST LADY'S OFFICE :
GREET WITH MRS. BRIGITTE MACRON
In the morning, the First Lady will meet with Mrs. Brigitte Macron at the Élysée Palace. This arrival will be open to pre-credentialed media and managed by Palace Communications.
Previous engagements with Mrs. Macron:

In December 2022, the President and First Lady hosted President Macron and Mrs. Macron at the White House for the first State Visit of the Biden Administration. During the visit, the First Lady hosted Mrs. Macron at the Planet Word Museum in Washington, D.C. to celebrate their mutual lifelong commitment to education. Dr. Biden, who currently teaches English at Northern Virginia Community College, and Mrs. Macron, a former French literature and theatre teacher, were joined by students enrolled in Silver Spring International Middle School's French immersion educational program.


In September 2022, President Macron and Mrs. Macron attended the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA) Leaders Reception in New York, New York, hosted by Dr. Bidenand President Biden. 
In June 2022, Dr. Bidenand Mrs. Macron both participated in the NATO Summit Partners Program in Segovia and Madrid, Spain, visiting the Royal Site of La Granja de San Ildefonso, the Royal Glass Factory of La Granja, and the Reina Sofía National Museum, home to the renowned Guernica mural by Pablo Picasso.
October 2021: Dr. Bidenand Mrs. Macron attended the G20 Partners Program, which was held in Rome, Italy. Dr. Biden, President Biden, Mrs. Macron, and President Macron also attended the G20 Leaders' Dinner at the Quirinale Palace, the official home of the President of the Republic of Italy. 
June 2021: Dr. Bidenand Mrs. Macron participated in the G7 Partners Program, during which spouses viewed a performance of Ocean World at The Minack Theatre in Cornwall, United Kingdom

 ***
Additional background on the Elysee Palace from your pooler:
Residence of the Presidents of the French Republic since 1848, the Palais de l'Élysée has passed through the hands of illustrious figures since its creation in the 18th century. A building that hides many stories under its official gold. Not all avowable…
The Palace was originally called Hôtel d'Évreux, built in 1718 for the Count of Évreux, Governor of Île-de-France. It was bought on his death in 1753 by Jeanne-Antoinette Poisson, better known as Madame de Pompadour, favorite of Louis XV. "My pleasure is not to contemplate the gold in my coffers, but to spread it," she will say. And she will spread it en masse to furnish the mansion with tapestries, gilding and woodwork.
Before the Revolution, the Hotel was the property of the cousin of Louis XVI, Duchess of Bourbon. A lover of the occult sciences, she made the place one of the main Parisian centers of mysticism, receiving magnetizers (Mesmer) or prophets (the Unknown Philosopher, Louis-Claude de Saint-Martin) in her Salons. We also owe it the name of the Élysée Palace, due to its geographical proximity to the Avenue des Champs-Élysées, but above all in reference to the place of residence of virtuous souls and heroes in Greek mythology. Mysticism, again…
Confiscated during the Revolution, in 1805 the Palace became the residence of Joachim Murat and his wife Caroline Bonaparte, sister of the Emperor. It was under his orders that the main staircase and the Salon Murat, the room where the Council of Ministers is held, were fitted out. Having become King of Naples in 1808, Murat bequeathed the Palace to Napoleon.
On June 22, 1815, after the defeat at Waterloo, Napoleon signed his second abdication in the Silver Salon of the Palace.
Louis-Napoleon Bonaparte (future Napoleon III), was the first President of the Republic to reside in this Palace.


July 25, 2023 13:46 CEST

FLOTUS Travel Pool #2 Day 3 Paris, France
FLOTUS motorcade arrived at UNESCO headquarter at 12:57, as she emerged from the vehicle, she was greeted by UNESCO Director General Audrey Azoulay, the two ladies stood against a big banner with printed UNESCO logo in blue.
Mrs Biden introduced her daughter Ashley, UNESCO Director general and the First Lady smiled and posed for a photo. the greetings were brief.
Your pooler along with the local press were taken to a top floor of the building where FLOTUS and the US delegation sat in a big room with UN officials, both FLOTUS and the Director General sat in the middle of the room with US and UN flags behind them.
The Director General Ms Azoulay spoke first about the importance of the US's return to this UN body , she said " it means a lot and it's a positive news to the world" , she made a reference to Dr Biden as a teacher to which the First lady agreed about the importance of re-joining UNESCO again both to the United States, to the President and to herself as an educator.
Pool was asked to leave, and I couldn't hear the rest of the conversation.
Participating in the greet with UNESCO Director General Audrey Azoulay:

Erica J. Barks-Ruggles, Head of Mission, U.S. Mission to UNESCO
Nerissa Cook, Deputy Assistant Secretary for International Organization Affairs, U.S. Department of State
Nicolas Kassianides, Chief of Staff to the UNESCO Director-General 
Stefania Giannini, Assistant Director-General for Education at UNESCO
Eliot Minchenberg, Director of the UNESCO Liaison Office in New York, and UNESCO Representative to the United Nations in New York
Karel Fracapane, Director of the UNESCO Division for Peace and Sustainable Development

From the First Lady's office:
Today, July 25 at 8:00am ET / 2:00pm CET, First Lady Jill Biden will attend and deliver remarks at the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) flag-raising ceremony to mark the United States rejoining UNESCO and highlight the importance of the United States' leadership and collaboration in education, cultural heritage, and science around the world. This event will be open press and livestreamed HERE.
Excerpts from the First Lady's remarks EMBARGOED for Tuesday July 25th at 5am ET / 11am CET below:
I am honored to join you as we raise the flag of the United States—a symbol of our commitment to global collaboration and peace.
The United States is proud to join as a member state of UNESCO. …
When my husband, President Biden, took office two and a half years ago, he made a promise to the American people: That he would rebuild the systems that were broken…that he would work to bring divided communities back together…that he would put us on a path to a better, brighter future while restoring our leadership on the world stage.
…
Injustice and corruption; poverty and hunger; climate disasters and disease—these things aren't contained by borders.
Some of the biggest challenges of our time cannot be solved in isolation. Of course, we need to take care of our own citizens. But we're also a part of a global community. And if we don't take our seat in that coalition, we can't fight for our values—like democracy, equality, and human rights.
President Biden understands that if we hope to create a better world, the United States can't go it alone—but we must help lead the way. That's why we're so proud to rejoin UNESCO. …
Young people are our future. But they are also our present. And when we give them what they need to thrive—clean water and air, good schools and job opportunities, safety and mental health support—they'll show us the world through new eyes. They'll raise strong families and give back to their neighborhoods.
…
Education is a powerful key to that future. It changes us—so we can go on to change our world together.
Everyone deserves that opportunity.
It was in that spirit that UNESCO was created. To spread ideas and open minds. To give people the tools to thrive—whether it's protecting freedom of expression or trying to better understand our oceans or shaping standards on artificial intelligence. To preserve our treasures, so we can remember the history that makes us who we are. To show us that our differences are precious and our similarities infinite.
…
Together, let's empower the next generation of thinkers and dreamers and doers, helping them unleash their possibility.
The challenges of our times—from authoritarianism to climate change—create an uncertain future. But what is certain is the possibility still inside of us… to innovate…to cooperate…to discover new solutions.
It's up to us to realize that future together. 


July 25, 2023 16:50 CEST

FLOTUS Travel pool #3 Paris, France
Your pooler was taken to the raising of the flag ceremony event around an hour before the speech, approximately at 1:10 pm.
 It was set at the huge garden of UNESCO's Buidling, a stage was built with the backdrop of member States's flags under a cloudy sky.
Rows of white chairs were filled with hundreds of guests and VIPs including the First Lady of France Brigitte Macron and Goodwill Ambassador to UNESCO actor Forest Whitaker.
The ceremony started around 2 pm with a speech by the US actor turned activist Forest Whitaker who talked about the importance of fighting against hatred, antisemitic trends and racism, protect the freedom of expression and prioritize access to education.
He thanked the First Lady for all what she has done to champion education. He also thanked the Director General for her leadership, he said "think of a world of increased capacity to rebuild a culture of peace in a world while poverty has been eradicated and and education is used to build sustainable development."
The second speaker was Audrey Azoulay, DG of UNESCO. She spoke in French welcoming the rejoining of the US to the organization as a " significant step", she stressed the role of FLOTUS, Secretary Blinken, Senators Leahy and Coons for supporting education, and multilateralism.
She said the contribution already helped in efforts in strategic domains, "whether it means promoting African heritage, fighting racism, opening science especially to women, or managing water sustainability," she added "the return of the US is essential."
She also mentioned preserving heritage sites in Ukraine.
Finally, FLOTUS took the stage unfazed by the light drizzly rain.
Her first part of the speech was about her husband's achievements both domestically and on the international stage, "he created 13 million jobs, he invested in green technology, he reopened schools safely and put people to work, he made sure that all Americans could get the vaccine."
On the world stage she said President Biden " built a coalition of 140 countries to stand against Putin's unjust war, he rejoined the Paris Climate Agreement on his first day in office. "
She spoke with passion about the role of the US especially in promoting education, and world peace. "The United States is proud to rejoin as a member state of UNESCO."
Her full speech has already been sent by the White house.
As she finished the speech, the rain stopped, and the cloud moved away allowing the flag to be raised in a new era of US policies.
The National anthem sang by Opera singer Lisette Oropesa, native of Louisiana, then photos were taken of Mrs Biden and Ms Azoulay on stage before the end of the ceremony.
The flag of the United States is on full display at UNESCO building now.
The reception this evening hosted by US ambassador to France Denise Bauer is closed press.
That's it from me. Our next stop is Brittany and Normandy tomorrow, our final leg of this trip.
Bonne Soiree.



  