
    The Des Moines Register: "Graham Says His Top Priorities As President Would Be Terrorism, The National Debt And Jobs."
(The Register's editorial, "First impression: Gloomy Graham offers tough truths," The Des Moines Register, 07/02/15)
Senator Lindsey Graham made his second swing in the past week through Iowa on Wednesday and Thursday with a full schedule of events, including campaign stops in Fort Dodge, Mason City, Spencer, Orange City, Le Mars and Sioux City, and an editorial board interview with The Des Moines Register. 
In case you missed it, check out the full video of The Des Moines Register'seditorial board interview here and take a look at some of the coverage the two-day trip made:

"The first thing most people notice about Lindsey Graham is his sense of humor, which is both dry and disarming. But the three-term senator from South Carolina can shift quickly and effortlessly from well-worn jokes to an intense discussion of the terrorist threat facing the United States...Graham's candor sets him apart from some of his GOP opponents who tend to favor ready-made applause lines over coherent public-policy statements, and he's fully aware that this will put him at a disadvantage with certain voters."(The Register's editorial, "First impression: Gloomy Graham offers tough truths," The Des Moines Register, 07/02/15)
KIMT: "[Graham] Answered Questions Ranging From Issues Of How To Beat ISIS In Iraq And Syria, Tensions Between Israel And Iran, Immigration, Young People, And Infrastructure Improvements.""U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham is in Iowa for a two day visit, and says, he wants an opportunity to meet as many voters as he can. The Republican spoke to a group of about 70 people at Music Man Square in Mason City on Wednesday evening. He answered questions ranging from issues of how to beat ISIS in Iraq and Syria, tensions between Israel and Iran, immigration, young people, and infrastructure improvements." (Sarah Danik, "Presidential candidate Lindsey Graham in Mason City," KIMT, 07/01/15)
Spencer Daily Reporter: "Graham Demonstrated A Passion For Eliminating The Terrorist Enemies The U.S. Faces Around The Globe.""Too many terrorists. Too much debt. Too few jobs," he said to the audience. Graham demonstrated a passion for eliminating the terrorist enemies the U.S. faces around the globe. "I've never seen more threats to our homeland than I do today. (Randy M. Cauthron, "Graham first candidate to appear in Spencer," Spencer Daily Reporter, 07/02/15)
The Des Moines Register: "Outlawing Islam Is Not The Answer""Graham said that in order to deal with ISIS, he would strengthen the military and put more troops on the ground in Iraq. Outlawing Islam is not the answer, he said." (Brianne Pfannenstiel, "Lindsey Graham to Iowan: 'I'm not your candidate,'" The Des Moines Register, 07/02/15)
The Messenger: "Graham Said He'll Work To Defeat Any Nuclear Agreement With Iran That He Feels Won't Stop That Country From Developing Nuclear Weapons.""Graham said he'll work to defeat any nuclear agreement with Iran that he feels won't stop that country from developing nuclear weapons. 'If we do a nuclear deal with the Iranians that is not airtight, we're as dumb as dirt,' he said. He said President Barack Obama apparently thinks 'the Iranians can be handled just by charm.'"(Bill Shea, "Graham pledges action on terrorism, Social Security", The Messenger, 07/02/15)
The Des Moines Register: "Attendees Said They Liked Graham's Tough-On-Terrorism Foreign Policy Plans""Attendees said they liked Graham's tough-on-terrorism foreign policy plans and said many of his other solutions to issues like immigration, entitlement reform and tax policy also made sense." (Brianne Pfannenstiel, "Lindsey Graham to Iowan: 'I'm not your candidate,'" The Des Moines Register, 07/02/15)
ABC 9: "He Discussed His Pro-life Stance With Supporters, And His Opposition To The Nuclear Talks With Iran.""He discussed his pro-life stance with supporters, and his opposition to the Nuclear talks with Iran. The senator told ABC9 news if he were President he would not have engaged in talks with the Iranian government, saying that he doesn't believe they can be trusted and the issue could lead to an arms race in the region. He also spoke candidly about his stance on tackling ISIL." (Deborah Souverain, "GOP Presidential Hopefuls Graham and Jindal Hold Grassroots Campaign Through Siouxland", ABC 9 News, 07/0215)
Radio Iowa: "[Graham's] A 'Practical Kind Of Guy' Who Could 'Connect' With Voters Who've Been Turned Off By The GOP.""Republican presidential candidate Lindsey Graham on Wednesday said he's a "practical kind of guy" who could 'connect' with voters who've been turned off by the GOP.'I would talk about things differently than other Republicans, with a record to make it more than talk,' Graham said yesterday." (O. Kay Henderson, "Graham touts his 'Gang of 8' work for immigration reform", Radio Iowa, 07/02/15)
  