
    "Business owners are still fuming over President Obama's out-of-touch comments that denigrated Americans who built their own businesses. But it's not just the President's words that are hurting job creators. For three and a half years, President Obama has imposed burdensome regulations and higher taxes on small businesses. It's time for a change — and it's time for a president who doesn't devalue the entrepreneurs and innovators who build our economy." —Amanda Henneberg, Romney Campaign Spokesperson
Business Owners Across America Have Spoken Out Against President Obama's Claim That Americans Didn't Build Their Businesses:
Lou Ramos, Owner Of An Information Technology Company, Claimed President Obama's Comment Made Him "Almost Throw Up." "Lou Ramos, a small business owner from Tampa, will be at his local event. He owns an information technology and computer training company called Value Enterprise Solutions, Inc.  and he said the president's comments made him 'almost throw up when I heard it.' Ramos is a 64 year old Hispanic veteran, serving in the military from 1973-97, including two tours at the Pentagon, and he said he did read and watch all of the president's comments in context, not just the two sentences continually highlighted by the campaign." (Shushannah Walshe, "Romney Camp Continues 'You Didn't Build That' Attacks With Swing State Events," ABC News, 7/25/12)
Snoopy's Hot Dogs Co-Owner Larry Cerilli: "We Did Create This Business And We Are Insulted..."  LARRY CERILLI: "We both decided to put that sign up. It was a knee jerk reaction that I am glad I did. It was an answer to we did create this business and we are insulted, and I stand by it." (WNCN-TV, 7/24/12)
Pro DataIV Co-Founder Ralph Jensen, On President Obama: "He Thinks The Government Is The Root Of Everything That Happens And Everyone Builds Off The Back Of Government." "But to Ralph Jensen, one of the four founders of Pro DataIV accounting and payroll firm of Green Bay, the quote provided 'an insight into' Obama's 'soul.' 'He thinks the government is the root of everything that happens and everyone builds off the back of government,' said Jensen, whose firm employs nine people." (Bill Glauber, "Rhetoric Heats Up Over Obama 'You Didn't Build It' Quote," Milwaukee Journal Sentinel, 7/24/12)
Seek Careers Co-Founder Carol Schneider: "For Lack Of A Better Word, A Dumb Thing To Say. ... It Got My Ire Up." "Forty-one years ago, Carol Schneider, 75, and a neighbor founded Seek Careers/Staffing of Grafton. Schneider said she eventually became a sole operator in 1980 and for several years didn't take a salary. The firm now employs 60. She said Obama's comment 'was, for lack of a better word, a dumb thing to say.' 'It got my ire up,' said Schneider, who added that she puts in an 80-hour workweek." (Bill Glauber, "Rhetoric Heats Up Over Obama 'You Didn't Build It' Quote," Milwaukee Journal Sentinel, 7/24/12)
JFP Owner Juan Ponce, On President Obama's Comments: "Like Someone Just Slapped Me In The Face..."  JUAN PONCE: "It's almost like someone just slapped me in the face and my father and now he's a liar. That it wasn't me that built this company." (WTVD-TV, 7/25/12)
McArthur's Bakery Co-Owner Dave McArthur, On President Obama: "Doesn't Have A Clue." "Dave McArthur, a co-owner of McArthur's Bakery, asserted that small business is being 'crushed by big business' and out-of-touch governments on all level. 'Washington, especially this president, doesn't have a clue,' McArthur declared." (Jo Mannies, "Area Small Business Owners Bristle Over Obama's 'You Didn't Build That' Remark," St. Louis Beacon, 7/25/12)
A.D. Morgan Company Founder Rebecca Smith: President Obama's Comments Were "Unacceptable." REBECCA SMITH: "To hear someone try to denounce or remove or erase or deny the people who have taken the risks to follow their dream, that sense of esteem and accomplishment by just unilaterally dismissing what it takes to be a successful business owner, is unacceptable." (WTSP-TV, 7/25/12)
It's No Surprise Business Owners Are Unhappy — President Obama Has Presided Over "The Worst Economic Recovery America Has Ever Had":
CBS News: We Are Experiencing "The Worst Economic Recovery America Has Ever Had." CBS' SCOTT PELLEY: "Good evening. This is the worst economic recovery America has ever had. We'd been looking for hopeful signs, but today the chairman of the Federal Reserve threw a cold splash of reality on those hopes." ("CBS Evening News," 7/17/12)
"Small-Business Owners Grew More Pessimistic In June ... The Latest Sign That The Economic Recovery Has Slowed." "Small-business owners grew more pessimistic in June, according to an industry index, in just the latest sign that the economic recovery has slowed. The National Federation of Independent Business said Tuesday that its small-business optimism index plunged three points, to 91.4, in June, wiping away incremental growth from earlier this year and dropping the index back to roughly its October 2011 level." (Bernie Becker, "Small-Business Optimism Takes A Tumble," The Hill, 7/10/12)
New Business Startups Are At 30-Year Lows. "Not only the rate, but the raw numbers have declined, he said. In 1977, SBA figures show, Americans started 563,325 businesses with employees. In 2009, despite an increase in the population, they started 403,765. And no previous valleys dipped so low. A spreadsheet from Shane shows that neither the rate nor number of startups since 1977 ever hit the most recent level." (Tom Feran, "U.S. House Speaker John Boehner Says New Business Startups Are At The Lowest Levels In 30 Years," PolitiFact.com, 3/23/12)
  