
    President George W. Bush today has appointed one individual and has announced his intention to nominate four individuals and designate one individual to serve in his Administration:
The President intends to nominate Cindy Lou Courville, of Virginia, to be Representative of the United States of America to the African Union with the rank of Ambassador. Dr. Courville currently serves as Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for African Affairs at the National Security Council. Prior to this, she served as Senior Intelligence Officer in the Office of the Chief of Staff at the Defense Intelligence Agency. Earlier in her career, she served as Director of African Affairs at the National Security Council. Dr. Courville received her bachelor's degree and master's degree from the University of Louisiana at Lafayette. She went on to receive a second master's degree and PhD from the University of Denver.
The President intends to nominate Philip S. Goldberg, of Massachusetts, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Bolivia. Mr. Goldberg currently serves as Chief of Mission in Pristina, Kosovo. Prior to this, he served as Deputy Chief of Mission in Santiago, Chile. Earlier in his career, he served as Acting Deputy Assistant Secretary for Legislative Affairs at the Department of State. Mr. Goldberg received his bachelor's degree from Boston University.
The President intends to nominate Henry M. Paulson, Jr. of New York, to be United States Governor of the International Monetary Fund, for a five-year term, United States Governor of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, for a five-year term, United States Governor of the Inter-American Development Bank, for a five-year term, United States Governor of the African Development Fund, United States Governor of the Asian Development Fund, and United States Governor of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Secretary Paulson currently serves as Secretary of the Treasury. Prior to this, he served as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. Earlier in his career at Goldman Sachs, he served as Co-Chairman and Co-Executive Officer. Secretary Paulson received his bachelor's degree from Dartmouth College and his master's degree from Harvard Business School.
The President intends to nominate John C. Rood, of Arizona, to be Assistant Secretary of State for International Security and Non-Proliferation. Mr. Rood currently serves as Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for Counterproliferation Strategy at the National Security Council. Prior to this, he served as Deputy Assistant Secretary for Forces Policy at the Department of Defense. Earlier in his career, he served as Director of Proliferation Strategy, Counterproliferation and Homeland Defense at the National Security Council. Mr. Rood received his bachelor's degree from Arizona State University.
The President has appointed Peter W. Tredick, of California, to be a member of the Presidential Emergency Board #239.
The President intends to designate C. W. Bill Young, of Florida, to be the President's Personal Representative at the Farnborough International Aerospace and Defense Exhibition and Air Show, to be held July 17-23, 2006.
  