
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
July 12
In the morning, the President addressed the U.S. Embassy staff in the Margrethe Salon at the Hotel Store Kro in Copenhagen, Denmark. In the afternoon, he participated in a wreath laying ceremony at Mindenluden Memorial Cemetery. In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC.
July 14
The President announced the appointment of Judith A. Winston as Executive Director of One America in the 21st Century: The President's Initiative on Race.
July 16
The President announced his intention to appoint Thomas Leonard, Kevin O'Keefe, Eli J. Segal, Kathryn G. Thompson, and Jose Villarreal as members to the Federal National Mortgage Association (Fannie Mae) Board of Directors.
July 17
In the morning, the President traveled to Pittsburgh, PA, and in the afternoon, he traveled to Chicago, IL. In the evening, he traveled to Harrison, AR.
The President announced his intention to nominate Harold C. Pachios as a member of the U.S. Advisory Commission on Public Diplomacy.
The President announced his intention to reappoint Maurice R. Greenberg and Susan Hammer, and appoint William J. Hudson and Terry K. Watanabe to the Advisory Committee for Trade Policy and Negotiations.
The President announced his intention to reappoint Lee Williams to the J. William Fulbright Foreign Scholarship Board.
July 18
In the morning, the President traveled to Jasper, AR, and in the afternoon, he returned to Washington, DC.
In the evening, the President met with President Eduard Shevardnadze of the Republic of Georgia in the Oval Office.
The President announced his nomination of Felix G. Rohatyn as U.S. Ambassador to France.
The White House announced that the President will send a Presidential Mission headed by Secretary of Transportation Rodney E. Slater and Rev. Jesse Jackson to the Fourth African/African-American Summit in Harare, Zimbabwe, July 20-25.
  