
    President Donald J. Trump today announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key positions in his Administration:
Daniel M. Gade of North Dakota to be a Member of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission for the remainder of a five-year term expiring July 1, 2021. Mr. Gade was born and raised in North Dakota. He graduated from the United States Military Academy (West Point) in 1997, and was wounded in action twice and decorated for valor while serving in Iraq. He served in the administration of President George W. Bush, where his portfolio included veterans, military health care, and United States disability policy. He returned to West Point in 2011 and taught various political science and leadership courses until his retirement from the Army in 2017. He holds an M.P.A. and Ph.D. in public administration and policy from the University of Georgia. He has served on various advisory committees advising the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, and was appointed to serve on the National Council on Disability by then-Speaker Boehner in 2015. He cofounded the Independence Project, a Veteran's employment and empowerment experiment.
Melissa Sue Glynn of the District of Columbia to be an Assistant Secretary of Veterans Affairs, Enterprise Integration. Until recently, Dr. Glynn led Alvarez and Marsal's public sector practice focused on improving the delivery of government programs, and K-12 and higher education. Previously, she was a Principal with PricewaterhouseCoopers and was responsible for the firm's work with the Department of Veterans Affairs. Initially, Dr. Glynn's career focused on the development and deployment of innovative technologies associated with collaborative decision-making. She served as Co-Director of the Center for the Management of Information at the University of Arizona concurrent with her doctoral studies. She was also a principal investigator on a cooperative grant from the National Science Foundation and several programs funded by defense research laboratories. A New Jersey native, Dr. Glynn holds a B.A. from Rutgers University and a M.A. and a Ph.D. from the University of Arizona.
John Henderson of South Dakota to be an Assistant Secretary of the Air Force, Installations, Environment, and Energy. Mr. Henderson most recently served in the Army as the Commander of the Omaha District, Army Corps of Engineers, where his responsibilities included overseeing an annual program of $1.5 billion dollars consisting of more than 2,500 projects supporting the nation's water resources infrastructure, military construction, and Federal interagency work in nine States, environmental restoration projects in 41 States, and an extensive program supporting Department of Defense petroleum and energy infrastructure worldwide for the Defense Logistics Agency. Mr. Henderson has over 23 years of active military experience as an Army engineer officer, serving two combat tours to Iraq and one combat tour to Afghanistan as an engineer battalion task force commander. Mr. Henderson possesses a master's degree in civil engineering from the South Dakota School of Mines and Technology and is a licensed Professional Engineer in the State of South Dakota. His military education includes a National Security Studies fellowship with the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and graduation from the Joint Combined Warfighters Course, Army War College Fellowship Program, Command and General Staff College, Air Assault School, and Airborne School.
Ryan Douglas Nelson of Idaho to be Solicitor of the Department of the Interior. Mr. Nelson is a seasoned attorney with broad experience advising government and corporate executives in the public and private sector. Mr. Nelson has worked for all three branches of government. He served as Deputy Assistant Attorney General in the Environment and Natural Resources Division of the Department of Justice, where he managed the natural resource, wildlife and appellate sections of the Division, and as Deputy General Counsel for the White House Office of Management and Budget. He also served as Special Counsel for the Senate Judiciary Committee and as a law clerk for the Senate Legal Counsel. After graduating from BYU Law School with Honors, Mr. Nelson clerked for Judge Henderson on the D.C. Circuit and for Richard Mosk and Charles Brower on the Iran-United States Claims Tribunal in The Hague, the Netherlands. Mr. Nelson was an associate at Sidley Austin and is currently General Counsel for Idaho-based wellness company, Melaleuca, Inc. He has argued 13 Federal court of appeals cases on complex environmental and constitutional issues. Mr. Nelson resides in his hometown of Idaho Falls, Idaho, with his wife, Barbara Baer Nelson, and their seven children.
  