
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Romney Press Shop (857) 288-6390
Boston, MA - Today, Governor Mitt Romney announced the Romney for President Alabama Legislative Leadership Team. These Alabama leaders will help to expand Governor Romney's grassroots efforts in the state and to communicate his message of conservative change in Washington.
Welcoming these elected representatives to his campaign, Governor Romney said, "I am proud to announce the endorsements of some of Alabama's finest leaders. This team will help share my vision of a strong national defense, a strong economy, and strong families. I am honored to have their support and look forward to working with them as we campaign throughout Alabama."
Alabama State Treasurer Kay Ivey serves as the Statewide Chair for Governor Romney's Alabama campaign. U.S. Representatives Robert Aderholt (R-AL) and Mike Rogers (R-AL) have also endorsed Governor Romney's candidacy for President of the United States.
Background On The Romney For President Alabama Legislative Leadership Team:
Representative Mac Gipson (Prattville) – Representative Gipson served his country in the Army and has been serving his community in the Alabama State Legislature since 1994. Previous to his public service work, he was a distinguished member of the business community as the CEO of Gipson's Auto Tire and President of the Prattville Area Chamber of Commerce. Representative Gipson and his wife, Mary Lee, have four grown children, and are members of First United Methodist Church in Prattville.
Representative David Grimes (Montgomery) – Representative Grimes has been a member of the Alabama House of Representatives since 2002. He is a graduate of Troy State and has been in the life insurance business since 1978. In addition, he has been an important member of community organizations. He is a Deacon at Trinity Presbyterian Church, a little league baseball coach, and YMCA Board Member. He and his wife Barbara have two sons, John David and Tyler.
Representative Micky Hammon (Decatur) – Representative Hammon has been serving in the State Legislature since 2002. He and his wife, Pam, live in Decatur and have three children, Jake, Colter and Davis-Anne. Hammon holds an electrical degree from Calhoun County Community College. Representative Hammon is also a business leader in the community is a member of the Business Council of Alabama and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce.
Representative Benjamin Lewis (Dothan) – Representative Lewis, a dairy farmer and lawyer, was elected in 2006. He was appointed by Governor Riley to serve on the Alabama Law Institute. Lewis is a member of the Alabama Republican Party State Executive Committee, the Alabama State Bar Association, the Houston County Bar Association, the Florida Bar Association, the Alabama Farmers Federation, the Alabama Cattlemen's Association, the Dothan Area Chamber of Commerce, and the National Rifle Association. Lewis and his wife, Becky, are the parents of four sons, Marshall, Carson, Weston, and John Brooks. They attend the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in Dothan.
Senator Harri Anne Smith (Slocomb) – Senator Smith has been a public servant in Slocumb since 1989, working as a city council member, a Mayor, and a state senator. She is happily married to her husband, Charlie Smith, and they belong to the First Baptist Church. Senator Smith has also enjoyed performing community service through programs such as United Way and the Jaycees. As a result of her service, she has received numerous awards, such as Wal-Mart's "Hometown Hero" award, Girls Incorporated's "Role Model of the Year," and the National Association of Social Worker's Southeast Alabama Chapter "Elected Public Official of the Year 2002."
  