
    Today President Donald J. Trump announced his intent to nominate a sixteenth wave of judicial nominees, sixteenth wave of United States Attorney nominees, and eleventh wave of United States Marshal nominees as follows:
If confirmed, Eric D. Miller of Washington will serve as a Circuit Judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. Eric Miller is a partner in the Seattle office of Perkins Coie LLP, where he serves as the Chair of the firm's appellate practice. He is also a part-time lecturer at the University of Washington School of Law. He has argued more than 60 appeals, including 16 in the Supreme Court of the United States. Before joining the firm in 2012, Mr. Miller served for five years as an Assistant to the Solicitor General in the Office of the Solicitor General within the Department of Justice, where he received the Attorney General's Distinguished Service Award. Before joining the Office of the Solicitor General, Mr. Miller served as Deputy General Counsel of the Federal Communications Commission. He previously served in the Department of Justice as an Attorney-Advisor in the Office of Legal Counsel and as a member of the Appellate Staff in the Civil Division. Upon graduation from law school, Mr. Miller served as a law clerk to Judge Laurence H. Silberman of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit and later as a law clerk to Justice Clarence Thomas of the Supreme Court of the United States. Mr. Miller earned his A.B., magna cum laude, from Harvard University and his J.D. with highest honors from the University of Chicago School of Law, where he was inducted into the Order of the Coif and served as the topics and comments editor of the University of Chicago Law Review.
If confirmed, Tessa M. Gorman of Washington will serve as a District Judge on the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Washington. Tessa Gorman serves as an Assistant United States Attorney for the Western District of Washington, where she oversees the Office's Criminal Division as Chief. Prior to joining the Office, Ms. Gorman served as an Honors Trial Attorney in the Criminal Division of the U.S. Department of Justice, assigned to the Narcotics and Dangerous Drugs Section. Upon graduation from law school, Ms. Gorman served as a law clerk to Judge Douglas P. Woodlock of the U.S. District Court for the District of Massachusetts. Ms. Gorman earned her B.A. from Yale University, where she was a member of the Varsity Track & Field Team, and her J.D. from the University of California, Berkeley, School of Law, where she served as an editor of the California Law Review.
If confirmed, Damon R. Leichty will serve as District Judge on the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Indiana. Damon Leichty is currently a partner at Barnes & Thornburg LLP, where his practice focuses on complex civil litigation, including Federal products liability cases. Mr. Leichty has spent almost his entire legal career with Barnes & Thornburg, joining the firm as an associate after graduation from law school, with the exception of the two years that Mr. Leichty served as a law clerk to Judge Robert L. Miller of the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Indiana. Mr. Leichty earned his A.B., summa cum laude, from Wabash College and his J.D., cum laude, from the Indiana University Maurer School of Law.
If confirmed, Kathleen M. O'Sullivan of Washington will serve as a District Judge on the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Washington. Kathleen M. O'Sullivan is currently a partner and the firm-wide chair of the Commercial Litigation Practice Group at Perkins Coie, where she also serves on the firm's executive committee. Ms. O'Sullivan joined the Seattle office of Perkins Coie as an associate in 1997 and became a partner in 2004. Upon graduation from law school, Ms. O'Sullivan served as a law clerk to Judge Harold H. Greene of the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia and then as a law clerk to Judge M. Margaret McKeown of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. Ms. O'Sullivan earned her B.A., cum laude and with distinction in her major, from Yale University, and her J.D., cum laude, from the Georgetown University Law Center, where she served as an editor of the Georgetown Law Journal.
If confirmed, J. Nicholas Ranjan of Pennsylvania will serve as a District Judge on the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Pennsylvania. Nick Ranjan is an equity partner in the Pittsburgh office of K&L Gates LLP, where he litigates commercial, energy, and appellate matters. He has been recognized by Chambers USA as one of the top commercial litigators in Pennsylvania multiple times, and has been a fellow with the Litigation Counsel of America and the Leadership Council on Legal Diversity. While at K&L Gates, he has served on the firm's global pro bono and diversity committees, and directed his office's pro bono program—which was awarded "pro bono law firm of the year" in 2017 by the local bar association. He is active in the community, serving on legal diversity and symphony boards, as well as serving as a mentor to local middle school students. Prior to joining the firm in 2005, he served as a law clerk to Judge Deborah L. Cook of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit. Upon graduation from law school, Mr. Ranjan served as a Simon Karas Fellow with the Ohio Attorney General's Office, working with the State Solicitor General on the office's major appeals. Mr. Ranjan earned his B.A., summa cum laude, from Grove City College and his J.D., cum laude, from the University of Michigan Law School, where he was a note editor of The Michigan Law Review.
If confirmed, John Milton Younge of Pennsylvania will serve as a District Judge on the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania. John Milton Younge is a Judge of the Philadelphia Court of Common Pleas, where he has served since 1995 after being re-elected in 2005 and 2015. Raised in the southwest section of the city, Judge Younge is a product of the Philadelphia Public School system and a member of the 232nd graduating class of Central High School. Upon graduation from law school, Judge Younge started his own community-based law firm where he practiced for three years before joining the Redevelopment Authority of Philadelphia, where he served as Deputy Executive Director and General Counsel. Judge Younge earned his B.S. from Boston University, his J.D. from Howard University School of Law, and his Masters of Judicial Studies Degree from the University of Nevada, Reno. He teaches continuing legal education courses for judges and lawyers and is an adjunct professor at the Delaware County Community College.
If confirmed, G. Zachary Terwilliger of Virginia will serve as the United States Attorney for the Eastern District of Virginia. Mr. Terwilliger is currently serving as the interim United States Attorney for the Eastern District of Virginia. He previously served as an Assistant United States Attorney in the Eastern District of Virginia for approximately nine years, where he prosecuted organized crime, human trafficking, complex violent crime, and financial fraud offenses. He also served as leader on multiple, regional task forces as well as Counselor to the U.S. Attorney. Also during his time as an Assistant United States Attorney, Mr. Terwilliger was detailed to the Senate Judiciary Committee where he served as a criminal counsel to Chairman Charles Grassley. Most recently, Mr. Terwilliger served as an Associate Deputy Attorney General in the Office of the Deputy Attorney General with responsibility for overseeing aspects of the Department's Criminal Division and management of staff within the Office of Deputy Attorney General. Mr. Terwilliger clerked for the Honorable K. Michael Moore, Chief Judge of the United States District Court for the Southern District of Florida. He received his B.A. from the University of Virginia and his J.D., with highest honors, from the William and Mary School of Law.
If confirmed, Nicholas A. Trutanich of Nevada will serve as the United States Attorney for the District of Nevada. Mr. Trutanich is currently the Chief of Staff for the Nevada Attorney General's Office. He previously served as an Assistant United States Attorney in the Central District of California, where he prosecuted a variety of Federal offenses with an emphasis on violent crime and national security. He was also detailed to Iraq as the Deputy Justice Attaché to assist with counterterrorism and rule of law matters. Prior to becoming a Federal prosecutor, Mr. Trutanich was a litigator in private practice and a Federal law clerk. He received his B.S. from the University of California, Davis and his J.D. from the Georgetown University Law Center.
If confirmed, William Travis Brown, Jr. of Louisiana will serve as the United States Marshal for the Middle District of Louisiana. Mr. Brown is a retired Senior Inspector for the United States Marshals Service (USMS) Investigative Operations Division. He joined the USMS in 1989 as a Deputy U.S. Marshal. Mr. Brown worked in the Western and Middle Districts of Louisiana, then served as a Senior Inspector in the South Central and Gulf Coast regions covering Texas, Oklahoma, Arkansas, Louisiana, Mississippi, and Alabama. Prior to joining the USMS, Mr. Brown served as a Criminal Investigator with the East Baton Rouge Parish District Attorney's Office. He holds a Bachelor of Criminal Justice from Louisiana State University.
If confirmed, Nick Edward Proffitt, of Virginia will serve as the United States Marshal for the Eastern District of Virginia. Mr. Proffitt is currently the Protective Intelligence Investigator for the USMS Eastern District of Virginia. He joined the USMS as a Deputy U.S. Marshal in 1993 after serving for seven years as an Instructor Pilot and Chief of Flight Safety in the U.S. Air Force. Mr. Proffitt has spent his entire 25-year USMS career in the Eastern District of Virginia, and served as the District's Court Security Coordinator and Threat Investigation Coordinator before assuming his current management role as Protective Intelligence Investigator in 2008. Mr. Proffitt holds a B.S. in Aeronautical Science from Embry Riddle Aeronautical University.
  