
    
  Press reacts to Cruz's eye-popping fundraising numbers

HOUSTON, Texas — Yesterday, it was announced that supporters of the Cruz for President campaign have already raised more than $51 million, giving Cruz one of the strongest war chests among those running for president. Below are highlights from press coverage of the announcement:
McClatchy: Cruz on track for $51 million total
"GOP presidential candidate Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas, announced today that his campaign raised a robust $10 million in the second quarter and with super PAC support can count on over $51 million for his candidacy... The Cruz press release stressed 'the aggregate total of over $51 million means that, along with Cruz's strong support from the conservative grassroots across the country, Cruz's campaign will have the resources, the manpower, and the energy to compete vigorously in all early state contests, as well as nationally in the Super Tuesday states on March 1st.'"
New York Times: Cruz fundraising puts him "in the upper echelon"
"Senator Ted Cruz, Republican of Texas, raised about $10 million for his presidential campaign in the second quarter of the year, he announced on Sunday...noting that he had also brought in $4.3 million in the final week before the end of the first quarter... [H]is combined total will put him in the upper echelon of the more conservative candidates jockeying for supremacy in their so-called lane."
AP: Ted Cruz's 2016 campaign says its raised $14.2M since launch
"Ted Cruz's presidential campaign says it has raised more than $14 million in the just over three months since the Texas senator launched his bid for the Republican presidential nomination....Cruz also will benefit from several super PACs that are supporting him and can raise money without any contribution limits. Those groups have previously said they have raised $37 million.
Bloomberg: Cruz gets strong fundraising support from grassroots
"Cruz's campaign credited the fundraising performance to grassroots support and social-media attention. It got 175,000 contributions between the start of the campaign and the end of the second quarter for an average contribution of $81, from 120,000 'unique donors.'"
Texas Tribune: Fundraising haul "solidifies the senator's status as a potential second-place finisher" in money race
"Ted Cruz's presidential campaign announced Sunday it raked in about $10 million during the second quarter of this year, bringing the balance available to promote his campaign to over $51 million...[That number] solidifies the senator's status as a potential second-place finisher in the first round of the 2016 money race...In a news release touting the numbers, Cruz's campaign boasted the 'eye-popping fundraising haul comes off of one of the most successful presidential launches in modern history.'"
The Hill: Cruz "in the top tier of Republican candidate fundraising"
"Cruz's haul is impressive, and puts him in the top tier of Republican candidate fundraising...Cruz's campaign is using the figures to make the case that his appeal is wider than the media and establishment Republicans give him credit for. They said the more than 120,000 donors to the Cruz campaign came from all 50 states and five territories, and encompass nearly half of the zip codes in the U.S."
  