
    Expand into Nevada MarketsPaid Media Program to
Campaign Will Spend $14.5 Million This Week
Today, Biden for President announced new television and digital ads this week to highlight the pandemic's impact on older Americans and their families who have been hard hit by the COVID-19 pandemic. This week's spend will total more than $14.5 million, adding to the $15 million last week that kickstarted significant investments in the campaign's paid media program between now and November.
The campaign is also expanding its paid media footprint, expanding into Nevada where it will begin airing ads in the Las Vegas and Reno markets. The paid media program will also remain active in more than 25 media markets of battleground states that Donald Trump won in 2016, including Arizona, Florida, Michigan, North Carolina, Pennsylvania, and Wisconsin.
In a new television ad titled "Didn't Matter," a Wisconsin resident, Jessica, shares a deeply personal story about losing her grandmother to COVID-19 and explains how the Trump Administration has failed to support the elderly during the pandemic. The ad will target shows on daytime television that have high viewership among older Americans. A Spanish-language version will also run in Arizona and Florida.
As part of the campaign's integrated approach to paid media, the campaign is also releasing complimentary digital ads to reach older Americans online. "Dignity," which highlights how Biden's Build Back Better agenda will give older Americans peace of mind and independence, will run in each state on YouTube, Facebook, and Instagram. Short digital ads on Facebook will also boost the campaign's messaging towards seniors, spotlighting Biden's plans to lower drug costs and expand Medicare to age 60.
 Watch "Didn't Matter" HERE.
 Watch "Dignity" HERE.
Biden for President is also continuing to make the positive case for Joe Biden's leadership and vision with both "Truth" and "Tested" remaining up on the air and online in each state, encouraging Americans to come together to fight the virus and touting Biden's experience to lead during crises.
  