
    [President Medvedev's remarks were joined in progress.]
President Medvedev. ——by the way, something I have already had the chance to watch on TV, particularly your speech at the New School of Economics.
President Obama. Thank you.
President Medvedev. Because this, indeed, was a systemic outline of the relations between the United States and Russia on a number of issues, both bilateral and international. And also, we'll have an opportunity today to talk to the businesspeople.
President Obama. Yes.
President Medvedev. This only means that your visit turned out to be very substantial, intensive, and multifaceted, covering all matters of our cooperation, including foreign policy, bilateral relations, economic matters, humanitarian, which is very good.
President Obama. Thanks for your help.
President Medvedev. So we are also getting prepared to go, the two of us, to Italy, and there we'll continue discussing of matters.
President Obama. Absolutely. And I've also enjoyed a lot of good food. [Laughter]
So the—no, we had a very good day today, building off the very productive meetings yesterday. I had a good conversation with the Prime Minister, and I think that his approach to these issues was very similar to yours, and I think that we have the potential of doing some very important business together.
And seeing the young people today receive their diplomas was very encouraging. I saw your young Finance Minister there and an economic adviser there. And I think that you've got a lot of very talented young people who, I think, are going to be doing great things for Russia.
So I continue to thank you for your extraordinary hospitality. I'm looking forward to having a chance to meet some additional officials during lunch, and then I think the business meeting this afternoon will be very productive because I think both Russia and the United States has an interest in expanding our commercial relationship. So I thank you for the suggestion of bringing these business leaders together.
All right. Thank you, guys.
  