
    Pool Reports by Nadia Bilbassy, Al-Arabiya 



Sent:
Reports:




July 26, 2023 11:06 CEST

FLOTUS Travel Pool #1 Day 4 Normandy
Bonjour from sunny Paris.
This is our final day of a 4 day trip to France, the ride to the airport was uneventful, we wheeled up at 10:52 am from Orly -Paris airport, your pooler only got a glimpse of Mrs. Macron getting on the plane. I didn't see FLOTUS getting on.
The First two ladies were sitting on a couch next to each other talking about UNESCO.
The first stop is Brittany American cemetery where both ladies will pay respect to US soldiers killed in WWII in the liberation of Europe from Nazi occupation.
The trip is around 1 hour flight. Here is the background from the First Lady's office.
REPORTABLE BACKGROUND FROM THE OFFICE OF THE FIRST LADY:
Day 4 of 4: WEDNESDAY, JULY 26
First Lady Jill Biden will travel to Brittany and Normandy, as a continuation of her visit to France to mark the United States rejoining the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) and highlight the importance of the United States' leadership and collaboration in education, cultural heritage, and science around the world. She will be joined by Mrs. Brigitte Macron, U.S. Ambassador Denise Bauer and Erica J. Barks-Ruggles, Head of Mission at U.S. Mission to UNESCO on this visit.
In the morning, the First Lady and Mrs. Macron will depart Paris, France at Paris-Orly Airport. Upon arrival in Brittany, the First Lady and Mrs. Macron will be greeted by:

Mr. Emmanuel Berthier, Prefect of Brittany, Prefect of the West Zone of Security and Defense, Prefect of Ille-et-Vilaine
Mrs. Elizabeth "Beth" Webster, U.S. Consul for Western France, U.S. Consulate in Rennes
Captain Claude Goret, Deputy Commander of the Transport Gendarmerie (GTA) for Brittany
Mr. Pierre-Emile Simon, Head of the Customs Brigade of Saint-Malo
Mr. Chivoine Rem, Chief Executive Officer of Rennes and Dinard-Pleurtuit-Saint-Malo Airports

 BRITTANY AMERICAN CEMETERY AND MEMORIAL  Upon arrival in Brittany, the First Lady and Mrs. Macron will visit the Brittany American Cemetery and Memorial to pay respect to American service members who lost their lives in Northern France during World War II. 4,404 of World War II American service members are buried at this cemetery, most of whom lost their lives in the Normandy and Brittany Campaigns of 1944.
The First Lady and Mrs. Macron will participate in a wreath laying ceremony outside the chapel followed by the American and French national anthems. Afterwards, the First Lady and Mrs. Macron will visit the gravesite of an unknown service member to pay their respects and witness a headstone sanding ceremony.
Background on Headstone Sanding Ceremony This graveside ceremony uses sand properly sourced from Omaha Beach to fill the engraving on the headstone, allowing the servicemembers name or inscription to become visible against the stark white granite or marble headstone.
Greeters: 

Anthony "Tony" Barclay, Superintendent of Brittany American Cemetery and Memorial 
Frédéric Périssat, Prefect of La Manche 
Mayor Maurice Duhamel, Town of Montjoie-Saint-Martin

Wreath Laying Ceremony: 

Commander (Select) Benjamin E. Click, Assistant Naval Attaché, US Embassy Paris, France
Capitaine de Corvette Pierre-Alain Tillou, Deputy to the Chief, Defense & Security Department, COMNORD (French Navy)

MONT SAINT-MICHEL As part of her visit to France to mark the United States rejoining UNESCO, Dr. Biden and Mrs. Macron will visit Mont Saint-Michel, a UNESCO World Heritage site located in the bay between Normandy and Brittany, France.
Arrival and Brief by Mont Saint-Michel Leadership and Local Officials 

Mr. Thomas Velter, General Manager, Mont-Saint-Michel National Public Establishment 
Frédéric Périssat, Prefect of La Manche 

Tour of The Abbey of Mont Saint-Michel

Mayor Jacques Bono, Town of Mont-Saint-Michel
Maria de Oliveira, Guide and Lecturer, Mont-Saint-Michel

 Background on Mont Saint-Michel Mont Saint-Michel is a Gothic-style Benedictine abbey located on a rocky islet in the bay between Normandy and Brittany, France. Built between the 11th and 16th centuries, Mont Saint Michel is revered for technical and artistic achievement.  Mont Saint-Michel and its bay were designated a World Heritage site by UNESCO in 1979 and is currently one of 63 World Heritage sites throughout France. 2023 marks the site's millennial anniversary, which was celebrated by President Macron and Mrs. Macron with a visit to Mont Saint Michel this past June. Mont Saint-Michel continues to be France's most popular site outside of Paris with nearly 3 million people visiting the island each year.
UNESCO World Heritage Sites
Through the World Heritage Convention and Sites, UNESCO seeks to encourage the identification, protection and preservation of cultural and natural heritage around the world considered to be of outstanding value to humanity.
As of January 2023, there are a total of 1,157 World Heritage Sites located across 167 countries. Once designated by the World Heritage Convention, UNESCO provides the following support for World Heritage sites around the world:

Help States Parties safeguard World Heritage properties by providing technical assistance and professional training;
Provide emergency assistance for World Heritage sites in immediate danger;
Support States Parties' public awareness-building activities for World Heritage conservation;
Encourage participation of the local population in the preservation of their cultural and natural heritage;
Encourage international cooperation in the conservation of our world's cultural and natural heritage.




July 26, 2023 13:46 CEST

FLOTUS Travel Pool #2 Day 4 Normandy
Motorcade arrived at the American Cemetery at 12:49 PM
FLOTUS and the First Lady of France, Brigitte Macron, emerged from inside the chapel holding hands with somber faces. They walked towards two wreaths held by military members, one for each First Lady.
The flowers were in the color of the US and French flags; blue, red, and white.
Both FLOTUS and Mrs. Macron stepped closer to the wreaths as they were lowered to two white wooden chairs.
The national anthem of France was played first, followed by the American national anthem.
The two ladies walked towards the cemetery, where thousands of white crosses lined the perfectly manicured green grass.
Both were in a somber mood, and they stood infront of a cross with US and French flags planted on each side. A young lady who works at the cemetery brought a bucket of sand from Omaha beach and rubbed it on the top of the cross, on the unseen writing, a tradition known as headstone sanding. After a minute, the writing was clear. It read ( Here rest in honored glory two comrades in arms known but to God).
It was the tomb of two unknown soldiers. Both FLOTUS and Madame Macron hugged each other.
Tony Barclays, superintendent of Brittany American Cemetery and Memorial, was walking alongside and explaining to them in a soft voice. Your pooler couldn't hear what he was saying. The ceremony lasted around 7 minutes.
The pool is loaded in a bus for our next stop.
Here again, is the background from First Lady's office about the cemetery.
BRITTANY AMERICAN CEMETERY AND MEMORIAL 
Upon arrival in Brittany, the First Lady and Mrs. Macron will visit the Brittany American Cemetery and Memorial to pay respect to American service members who lost their lives in Northern France during World War II. 4,404 of World War II American service members are buried at this cemetery, most of whom lost their lives in the Normandy and Brittany Campaigns of 1944.
The First Lady and Mrs. Macron will participate in a wreath laying ceremony outside the chapel followed by the American and French national anthems. Afterwards, the First Lady and Mrs. Macron will visit the gravesite of an unknown service member to pay their respects and witness a headstone sanding ceremony.
Background on Headstone Sanding Ceremony
This graveside ceremony uses sand properly sourced from Omaha Beach to fill the engraving on the headstone, allowing the servicemembers name or inscription to become visible against the stark white granite or marble headstone.
Greeters: 

Anthony "Tony" Barclay, Superintendent of Brittany American Cemetery and Memorial 
Frédéric Périssat, Prefect of La Manche 
Mayor Maurice Duhamel, Town of Montjoie-Saint-Martin

Wreath Laying Ceremony: 

Commander (Select) Benjamin E. Click, Assistant Naval Attaché, US Embassy Paris, France
Capitaine de Corvette Pierre-Alain Tillou, Deputy to the Chief, Defense & Security Department, COMNORD (French Navy)




July 26, 2023 17:27 CEST

FLOTUS Travel Pool #3 Day 4 Normandy
After around a 20-minute ride, we arrived at Mont Saint-Michel, a magnificent Abbey staring at us in the distance.
FLOTUS and Madame Macron, along with Ashley Biden, walked towards the bridge on the bay to have a full view of the Abbey from a vantage point.
Thomas Velter, the General Manager of Mont Saint Michel National Public Establishment, explained to the First Ladies the history of the Abbey and the science behind the dam, especially during tide time. There were simultaneous translations via an official state department employee.
Both First Ladies seemed to be at ease at each other's company, responding to a question about her trip and her visit with Madame Macron and if she was having a good time with the First Lady, Dr. Biden said, "We always have a good time together," Mrs. Macron added ( we have a great relationship ), she joked with photographers about changing her shoes for the climb.
After around 5 minutes, the motorcade moved again to the sight of the Abbey, which is a UNESCO World Heritage site and is located between Brittany and Normandy.
Hundreds of tourists lined each side of the road, taking pictures of the motorcade.
The press was told to climb a few sets of stone stairs in anticipation of Dr. Biden, Mrs. Macron, and the official delegation's arrival at the top of this Gothic-style Benedictine Abbey.
By the time we got to the top, we were out of breath, but the view was stunning.
Both First Ladies arrived at the very top and walked around different corners of the abbey, by now, they had changed their high heels shoes to comfortable sports ones. Maria del Olivera, a lecturer of Mont Saint-Michel, conducted the tour of the Abbey.
Madame Macron was holding on to Ashley while looking at the beach from the top of the Abbey in a sign of affection.
The Abbey stayed open for tourists during the visit, and a few lucky ones waited passionately on the very top to take photos of both First Ladies.
A huge American flag was flying next to a French one on the side of the Abbey.
Your pooler was relieved to finally descend the fleet of stairs, and as we were finally loading our buses, she said to me, "Wasn't it great?" In reference to the Abbey.
We are on our way to the airport to Dover Airport. Madame Macron will make her way back to Paris solo.
We will shortly wheel up.
Backgrounder from First Lady's Office. 
MONT SAINT-MICHEL
As part of her visit to France to mark the United States rejoining UNESCO, Dr. Biden and Mrs. Macron will visit Mont Saint-Michel, a UNESCO World Heritage site located in the bay between Normandy and Brittany, France.
Arrival and Brief by Mont Saint-Michel Leadership and Local Officials

Mr. Thomas Velter, General Manager, Mont-Saint-Michel National Public Establishment 
Frédéric Périssat, Prefect of La Manche 

Tour of The Abbey of Mont Saint-Michel

Mayor Jacques Bono, Town of Mont-Saint-Michel
Maria de Oliveira, Guide and Lecturer, Mont-Saint-Michel

Background on Mont Saint-Michel
Mont Saint-Michel is a Gothic-style Benedictine abbey located on a rocky islet in the bay between Normandy and Brittany, France. Built between the 11th and 16th centuries, Mont Saint Michel is revered for technical and artistic achievement.
Mont Saint-Michel and its bay were designated a World Heritage site by UNESCO in 1979 and is currently one of 63 World Heritage sites throughout France. 2023 marks the site's millennial anniversary, which was celebrated by President Macron and Mrs. Macron with a visit to Mont Saint Michel this past June. Mont Saint-Michel continues to be France's most popular site outside of Paris with nearly 3 million people visiting the island each year.
UNESCO World Heritage Sites
Through the World Heritage Convention and Sites, UNESCO seeks to encourage the identification, protection and preservation of cultural and natural heritage around the world considered to be of outstanding value to humanity.
As of January 2023, there are a total of 1,157 World Heritage Sites located across 167 countries. Once designated by the World Heritage Convention, UNESCO provides the following support for World Heritage sites around the world:

Help States Parties safeguard World Heritage properties by providing technical assistance and professional training;
Provide emergency assistance for World Heritage sites in immediate danger;
Support States Parties' public awareness-building activities for World Heritage conservation;
Encourage participation of the local population in the preservation of their cultural and natural heritage;
Encourage international cooperation in the conservation of our world's cultural and natural heritage.




July 26, 202321:37 EDT

FLOTUS travel pool #4 Normandy to DC
Good evening from Washington DC.
Plane touched down at Dover airport around 6:30. FLOTUS, her staff and her daughter Ashley along with few secret service agents exited the plane. Your pooler didn't see her exiting.
After a short stop at Dover, we wheeled up again to JBA, arriving around 8:30 pm.
FLOTUS will be remaining in Delaware for the entire next week and POTUS will join her on Friday for a vacation.
A van took us to the White House gate, and we exited around 9:15 pm.
It's been a long day; it's been a pleasure being your pooler on this FLOTUS trip to France, covering the flag raising ceremony at UNESCO, and visiting the magnificent Mont Saint Michel Abbey.
Good night and good luck.
Happy to provide photos I took upon request.



  