
    Today, President Donald J. Trump announced his intent to nominate:
Lee Philip Rudofsky of Arkansas, to serve as Judge on the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Arkansas.
Lee Rudofsky is Senior Director for Global Anti-Corruption Compliance at Walmart Inc. Before joining Walmart, Mr. Rudofsky served as Solicitor General of Arkansas, representing the State of Arkansas in Federal and State court, including the United States Supreme Court, Arkansas Supreme Court, and Federal district courts. Earlier in his career, Mr. Rudofsky was in private practice at Kirkland & Ellis, LLP, where his practice focused on constitutional, environmental, and complex commercial matters. Mr. Rudofsky served as a law clerk to Judge Andrew Kleinfeld on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit and to Justice Robert Cordy of the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts. Mr. Rudofsky earned his B.S. from Cornell University, his M.P.A. from the Cornell Institute of Public Affairs, and his J.D. from Harvard Law School.
R. Austin Huffaker, Jr., of Alabama, to serve as Judge on the U.S. District Court for the Middle District of Alabama.
Austin Huffaker is a Shareholder at Rushton, Stakely, Johnston & Garrett, P.A, where his practice focuses on complex commercial, product and lender liability, and professional malpractice litigation. Mr. Huffaker serves as a Commissioner of the Alabama Securities Commission and a Member of the Alabama Civil Jury Charge Committee. Mr. Huffaker earned his B.Eng., cum laude, from Vanderbilt University and his J.D, magna cum laude, from the University of Alabama, where he was a member of the Alabama Law Review and a Hugo Black Scholar.
Kerry Lee Pettingill of Oklahoma, to serve as United States Marshal for the Eastern District of Oklahoma. 
Kerry Pettingill is the Corporate Director of Department of Transportation Compliance for Quintana Energy Services, Inc. Before joining Quintana, Mr. Pettingill had a long, distinguished career in law enforcement. He served for seven years as Director of the Oklahoma Office of Homeland Security and for 32 years on the Oklahoma Highway Patrol, retiring with the rank of Colonel. Mr. Pettingill earned his B.S. from Southern Nazarene University.
  