
    
  By the President of the United States Of America
  A Proclamation

Americans are increasingly aware of the interdependence of all nations, large and small. We, our allies, and our adversaries are increasingly aware that many of the problems which affect us mutually can only be solved within a global context. It is with this fact in mind that we observe United Nations Day on October 24, 1974. The relevance and promise of this forum have been demonstrated repeatedly during the past year. True to its Charter, the United Nations has made historic contributions to the peace of the world.
We are all grateful to the Secretary General of the United Nations, to the Security Council, and to the United Nations Emergency Force for their part in halting the fighting in the Middle East, hopefully opening the way for a lasting settlement there.
We are grateful, too, for the United Nations' initiatives in fostering global economic and social progress. In the wake of the world energy crisis, the General Assembly and other United Nations bodies have turned their attentions to the problems of raw materials and development. The pioneering Law of the Sea Conference, in which all nations are represented, has convened to address the complex questions of regulating human activities on the high seas and protecting the marine environment. The United Nations is preparing now for Conferences later this year on World Food and on World Population. Both will address basic problems affecting the very quality of life on this planet.
By these endeavors, the United Nations manifests vividly its unique role as the one international instrument of action to which virtually all nations subscribe. For this role, for past accomplishments, and as a standard bearer for future world peace and prosperity, the United Nations deserves the appreciative recognition and continuing support of all Americans.
Now, Therefore, I, Richard M. Nixon, President of the United States of America, do hereby designate Thursday, October 24, 1974, as United Nations Day. I urge the citizens of this Nation to observe that day with community programs that will promote understanding of and support for the United Nations and its affiliated agencies.
I have appointed Frank Cary to be United States National Chairman for United Nations Day and, through him, I call upon State and local officials to encourage citizens' groups and all agencies of communication to engage in appropriate observances of United Nations Day in cooperation with the United Nations Association of the United States of America and other interested organizations.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this ninth day of July, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred seventy-four, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and ninety-ninth.

RICHARD NIXON
  