
    STATEMENT OF ADMINISTRATION POLICY
(House Rules)(Sponsors: Livingston (R), Louisiana; Young (R), Florida)
This Statement of Administration Policy provides the Administration's views on the Department of Defense Appropriations Bill, FY 1996, as reported by the House Appropriations Committee.
The Administration does not support the Committee's 602(b) allocations, nor the level of funding in the Committee bill, which is $7.8 billion above the President's request. By providing increases for defense programs that are neither warranted nor justified, the bill would also seriously undermine the President's goal of providing a balanced budget while increasing investment programs essential to a higher standard of living for all Americans. As reflected in his Budget, the President firmly believes that we can maintain a strong defense without sacrificing critical investments. The Committee's allocation raises serious concerns about the overall priorities reflected in the appropriations process and the President will not support the bill unless those concerns are addressed.
The Administration is committed to balancing the Federal budget by FY 2005. The President's budget proposes to reduce discretionary spending for FY 1996 by $5 billion in outlays below the FY 1995 enacted level. The Administration must evaluate each bill both in terms of funding levels provided and the share of total resources available for remaining priorities.
Infringements on the President's Authorities 
The Committee bill contains provisions that would diminish the President's constitutional authority to conduct the Nation's foreign affairs. Sections 8102-8105 would impose restrictions on the President's ability to conduct and finance contingency operations that are essential to the national interest. In particular, the limits on contingency operations in section 8105 represent an unacceptable infringement on the President's prerogative as Commander-in-Chief. In addition, the requirement to submit supplemental requests to sustain contingency operations clearly constrains Presidential authority. Finally, denying funds for making assessed or voluntary payments to the United Nations (U.N.) would increase arrearages to the U.N., cause the U.S. violate its treaty obligations, and undermine U.S. international leadership.
Unwarranted Programs 
The Committee bill would provide $7.8 billion in unrequested funding, mostly for weapons programs that either are not needed or are planned for procurement, more appropriately, in later years. These increases include $493 million for the B-2 bomber, $599 million for ballistic missile defense, and $908 million for National Guard and Reserve equipment. Also included in this $7.8 billion increase is a wide variety of low-priority spending proposals that do more to serve narrow special interests than they do to provide for a strong national defense.
Seawolf Submarine 
The Committee bill would deny the President's request for $1.5 billion to complete the last Seawolf submarine (SSN-23), but would add $1.0 billion for various submarine-construction projects — without procuring a single ship. The submarine- construction projects designed by the Committee would threaten preservation of the submarine industrial base, an important goal of the Administration's planned Seawolf program.
Technology Reinvestment Project 
The Administration strongly opposes the Committee's termination of the Technology Reinvestment Project. This is a critical program for harnessing leading-edge technology from the commercial sector for national defense. The Administration urges the House to restore funding for this program.
Additional Concerns 
The Administration opposes the Committee's termination of, or sharp reduction in funding for, other programs key to America's future. The bill would almost cut in half funding for the Nunn-Lugar program — our most cost-effective way of reducing the threat of weapons of mass destruction in the former Soviet Union and preventing their proliferation. Finally, the bill would unwisely reduce funding for environmental, disaster relief, humanitarian, and energy management programs. The Administration urges the House to restore funding for these programs to the requested levels.
  