
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate five individuals and appoint seven individuals to serve in his Administration.
The President intends to nominate Thomas J. Madison, of New York, to be Administrator of the Federal Highway Administration at the Department of Transportation. Mr. Madison currently serves as President of the Spectra Subsurface Imaging Group. Prior to this, he worked as Commissioner of the New York State Department of Transportation. Earlier in his career, he served as Deputy Secretary for Transportation to the Governor of New York. Mr. Madison received his bachelor's degree from the State University of New York at Geneseo.
The President intends to nominate David Reid Murtaugh, of Indiana, to be Deputy Director for State, Local, and Tribal Affairs in the Office of National Drug Control Policy. Mr. Murtaugh currently serves as Acting Deputy Director for State, Local, and Tribal Affairs in the Office of National Drug Control Policy and as the United States Marshal for the Northern District of Indiana. Prior to this, he served for 25 years in the Tippecanoe County Sheriff's Department in Indiana, including two terms as Sherriff. Mr. Murtaugh received his associate's degree from Vincennes University and his bachelor's degree from Indiana University.
The President intends to nominate the following individuals to be Members of the National Museum and Library Services Board:
Beverly Allen, of Georgia, for the remainder of a five-year term expiring 12/06/13
Donald H. Dyal, of Texas, for the remainder of a five-year term expiring 12/06/13
Jeffrey B. Rudman, of Massachusetts, for the remainder of a five-year term expiring 12/06/13
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the Cultural Property Advisory Committee, for the remainder of three-year terms expiring 04/25/10:
Ronald R. Hall, of Texas (International Sales Expert)
David B. Jones, of Texas (Public)
James Lorand Matory, of Massachusetts (Anthropology)
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board, for four-year terms beginning 12/04/08:
Edward H. Gee, of Georgia
Phillip D. Jenkins, of Texas
Nancy Ann Starnes, of Virginia
Hans A. Van Winkle, of Texas
  