
    Today, the National Governors Association (NGA) released a statement urging Congress to pass President Biden's Bipartisan Infrastructure Framework that was crafted with the help of ten Senators from both sides of the aisle to deliver transformational change nationwide.
The statement, penned by NGA Chairman Governor Asa Hutchinson of Arkansas and Vice Chairman Governor Phil Murphy of New Jersey on behalf of the nation's 55 governors, expressed the group's excitement surrounding the bipartisan deal, but stressed that it is critical for Congress to act now.
"We urge Congress to capitalize on this rare bipartisan agreement to deliver a transformative infrastructure bill to the American people," Hutchinson and Murphy wrote.
The NGA also highlighted the bipartisan priorities endorsed by the organization as a touchstone for negotiators to reference when ironing out the final legislative text; among them improving transportation systems, strengthening our resiliency in the face of natural disasters, and expanding broadband to help "harness technological innovation."
Read the full statement here:
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEJuly 21, 2021
Congress Encouraged to Swiftly Pass Infrastructure Investments
WASHINGTON – Today, National Governors Association (NGA) Chairman Governor Asa Hutchinson of Arkansas and Vice Chairman Governor Phil Murphy of New Jersey released the following statement as Congress considers a bipartisan proposal that would provide $579 billion in infrastructure investments:
"On behalf of the National Governors Association, we are pleased that Senators of both parties have come to an agreement on a framework for funding critical infrastructure investments. We urge Congress to capitalize on this rare bipartisan agreement to deliver a transformative infrastructure bill to the American people.
"Now more than ever it is critical for Senators on both sides of the aisle to iron out the details of the agreement and finalize legislative text. Governors encourage negotiators to consider NGA's Principles for National Infrastructure Investment. These carefully selected, bipartisan priorities underscore the importance of the state-federal partnership when building and maintaining infrastructure.
"We stand ready to work with Congress on this critical proposal and urge continued bipartisan momentum while taking action to deliver needed infrastructure funding."
  