
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Romney Press Shop (857) 288-6390
NEW HAMPSHIRE: Governor Romney "Packs The Room":
Nashua Telegraph: "Judged by a handful of comments and the audience's reaction, former Massachusetts Gov. Mitt Romney was a hit at Sunday's Nashua Republican City Committee's 'A Summer Luncheon.' That included not pulling punches aimed at his Democratic counterparts, particularly U.S. Sen. Hillary Clinton, D-N.Y." (Joseph G. Cote, "Candidate Jabs Dems, Outlines Plans," Nashua Telegraph, 7/23/07)
- Nashua Telegraph: "Romney delighted many Nashua-area Republicans by outlining his campaign points, what he called the 'three-legged stool' of a strong America: a strong military, economy and families." (Joseph G. Cote, "Candidate Jabs Dems, Outlines Plans," Nashua Telegraph, 7/23/07)
Foster's Daily Democrat: "About 200 people packed into Town Hall on a beautiful Sunday afternoon seizing their opportunity as first-in-the nation presidential primary voters to ask many questions of Republican hopeful Mitt Romney." (Gretyl Macalaster, "Romney Packs The Room In Exeter," Foster's Daily Democrat, 7/23/07)
Rita Harrington Of Nashua, NH: "I just thought he was really inspiring for the Republican Party here. ... We went through a lot in the last elections. I liked everything he had to say." (Joseph G. Cote, "Candidate Jabs Dems, Outlines Plans," Nashua Telegraph, 7/23/07)
Chuck Lothrop Of Nashua, NH: "I thought he was pretty awesome all the way through. ... I was pretty impressed with him." (Joseph G. Cote, "Candidate Jabs Dems, Outlines Plans," Nashua Telegraph, 7/23/07)
Ellen Derby Of Peterborough, NH: "I thought he was right on the money. ... What hit me is his emphasis on having strong families." (Joseph G. Cote, "Candidate Jabs Dems, Outlines Plans," Nashua Telegraph, 7/23/07)
Jeanine Notter Of Merrimack, NH: "Everything he said was what we wanted to hear." (Joseph G. Cote, "Candidate Jabs Dems, Outlines Plans," Nashua Telegraph, 7/23/07)
Skip Webb Of Hampton, NH: "I think he did very well." (Susan Nolan, "Romney Charms Crowds," Portsmouth Herald, 7/23/07)
Gaylee Dean Of Newmarket, NH: Governor Romney is "the classiest guy running." (Susan Nolan, "Romney Charms Crowds," Portsmouth Herald, 7/23/07)
IOWA: Governor Romney Draws Standing Room Only Crowds:
Mason City Globe-Gazette: Governor Romney speaks "to a standing room only crowd" in Clear Lake, IA. (Peggy Senzarino, "Romney Visits Clear Lake," Mason City Globe-Gazette, 7/21/07)
Gene Triplett Of Battle Creek, IA: "I was undecided about who I was for before I came in here today. ... But Romney has sold me. I liked Tancredo and Brownback, but this guy impresses me." (Tim Gallager, "Romney Preaches Military Might," Sioux City Journal, 7/23/07)
Elizabeth Mahlberg Of Charter Oak, IA: Governor Romney "seems to have everything I'm looking for in a candidate." (Rob Boshart, "Romney Targets Terrorism, Predators," Cedars Rapid Gazette, 7/23/07)
Alice Eisenhauer Of Fonda, IA: "I feel he really is more strong in what he wants to do." (Lisa Rossi, "Romney Blasts Obama, Others," Des Moines Register, 7/21/07)
SOUTH CAROLINA: Governor Romney Works Up The Party Faithful:
Spartanburg Herald-Journal: 250 People Cram In To Hear Governor Romney. "About 250 people - including the media and campaign staff - crammed into the Beacon's Panther Room for Romney's sixth visit to Spartanburg since early 2005." (Jason Spencer, "'Yankee Governor With Southern Values' Backs Military And Attacks 'HillaryCare,'" Spartanburg Herald-Journal, 7/20/07)
Spartanburg Herald-Journal: "The rhetoric sat well with the party faithful, who clapped and cheered at regular intervals. Romney signs, stickers and DVDs were available at the entrance to the Panther Room." (Jason Spencer, "'Yankee Governor With Southern Values' Backs Military And Attacks 'HillaryCare,'" Spartanburg Herald-Journal, 7/20/07)
COLORADO: Governor Romney "Energized" El Paso County Republicans To "Feverish Applause":
The Rocky Mountain News: "Appearing polished and poised in a dark suit and blue tie, the former Massachusetts governor got all the laughs he looked for and stirred the crowd to feverish applause as he delivered his 32-minute keynote speech at the annual Lincoln Day Dinner at the elegant Broadmoor Hotel." (Chris Barge, "Romney: Dems Shrink From Terror," The Rocky Mountain News, 7/19/07)
Denver Post: "Republican presidential candidate Mitt Romney energized a crowd of more than 700 of the party faithful Wednesday night by touting America's strength in fighting a global war on terror, its economy and the country's commitment to family." (Chuck Plunkett, "Romney: U.S. Strength Needed," Denver Post, 7/19/07)
Colorado Springs Gazette: Republicans "Were Surprised Or Pleased By [Governor Romney's] Humor And Straightforwardness." (Ed Sealover, "Romney Talk May Change El Paso Minds," Colorado Springs Gazette, 7/18/07)
- Colorado Springs Gazette: "Many people who came to the El Paso County Republican Party Lincoln Day Dinner on Wednesday had not made up their minds on Mitt Romney. ... Romney, however, seemed to dispel many of those doubts during a 35-minute address to a 700-person crowd at The Broadmoor hotel." (Ed Sealover, "Romney Talk May Change El Paso Minds," Colorado Springs Gazette, 7/18/07)
Former State Senator Ed Jones: "God, he sounds like Ronald Reagan. ... I really like what I hear, and right now I'm just going to be listening and watching." (Ed Sealover, "Romney Talk May Change El Paso Minds," Colorado Springs Gazette, 7/18/07)
  