
    Pool Reports by Erin Logan, Los Angeles Times 
Note: The pooler continued the numbering sequence which began on June 29.Reports 1 through 5 were on June 29 and can be accessed by clicking this link.Reports 6 through 17 were on June 30 and can be accessed by clicking this link.Reports 18 through 28 were on July 2 and can be accessed by clicking this link.Reports 32 through 49 were on July 5 and can be accessed by clicking this link.There were no pool reports on July 1 or 3.



Sent:
Reports:




July 4, 202211:17 PDT

VP Supplemental Pool #30: checking in
Hello,
Your pooler has been tested and swept and is awaiting the VP's arrival at the OTR in Los Angeles. Your pooler did not travel with the VP to the location and will not leave the OTR with VPOTUS.
Your pooler is among six other press members.



July 4, 202213:46 PDT

VP Supplemental Pool #31: details on VPOTUS Santa Monica appearance+comments on Chicago shooting
Hello,
VPOTUS and SGOTUA arrived via motorcade at the Santa Monica Fire Station #2 at 1:08pm PST.
They exited their vehicle and walked into the front lobby of the fire station, where they spoke with what appeared to be fire fighters. The conversation was closed to the press, though your pooler could see the some of engagement through a partially obstructed glass window. It lasted from 1:09pm to 1:11pm.
Press were not allowed to take photos.
After that engagement, VPOTUS entered the apparatus bay, which is the garage where fire trucks and gear are held, and she and her husband greeted 14 firefighters who stood in front of a fire truck as they spoke to them for about 7 mins. They then took a photo with them.
VPOTUS then made remarks about the Chicago shooting. It is at the 6:30 mark. Note: she is still planning to travel to Chicago tomorrow.
Here is the otter link: https://otter.ai/u/BMEMjsDW5-LczJbv1ro9qj5_Dd4
(Transcription below)
The audio quality is not stellar until the Chicago remarks. Your pooler was not allowed to be close to VP until then.
VPOTUS and SGOTUS left Santa Monica fire station at 1:21 via motorcade. Your pooler did not travel with them.
Here are some notes from the convo.
On Chicago:
"So the President and I have been in close coordination and we are being briefed on what's happening right now in terms of the active shooter situation. We are sending federal resources to local law enforcement folks on the ground to make sure that we can help them in terms of the capture of the shooter and any investigation that will follow.
But right now we do have an active shooter situation and so we are putting all of the resources possible into monitoring that in a way that we can bring this to a close in terms of also capture of that individual.
I am going to travel to Chicago tomorrow morning to address the National Association of Educators NEA. And I was just sharing with some of our heroes, our local firefighters that part of what I'm preparing— sadly I was preparing it before, it's resonant every day—is a whole section on what our teachers go through.
They go to school to learn how to teach our children to inspire their ambition to create the future generations of leaders and our teachers are also in training to deal with an active shooter. Our teachers are having to learn how to put a tourniquet on a kid if they have been shot.
And so when we look at the issue of gun violence, and when we look at the dangers that it presents to communities, it ranges and it is something that we should take very seriously. The President recently signed bipartisan legislation to address the issue of gun violence but we clearly have much more to do. Thank you."
To firefighters:
Harris said that "The President and I've been working on what we need to do in particular around federal support for local firefighters on every issue."
Harris noted her personal history with wildfires:
"We've had to be evacuated a couple of times. I'm a California kids were you know about drought and what that means. And I the climate crisis and what that means in terms of creating an environment that is hazardous. Particularly for you, who are on the front line."
SGOTUS also spoke with firefighters:
He noted that his brother is a firefighter.
"I'm really acutely aware of the sacrifice you make." He thanked them for working through the pandemic "when everything else was shut down."
Your pooler did not see tv cameras at the engagement but I recorded a video. And will send it once it is shared on Twitter.
On Background From a White House Official:
Stations and Units present:
Station one, Truck oneStation one, Rescue oneStation two, Engine two
The Vice President and Second Gentleman met with the firefighters of Santa Monica Fire Station No. 2 for the Fourth of July.
Participants:• Danny Alvarez, Station 2 Fire Chief• Tom Clemo, Station 2 Deputy Fire Chief• Dominic Bei, IAFF Local 1109 Santa MonicaFirefighters Union President• Kristin McCowan, Santa Monica mayor pro tem• Lana Negrete, Santa Monica councilmember• Jeff Connor, Battalion Chief• Matt Norris, Station 2 Captain• Firefighters of Santa Monica Fire Station No. 2
The Vice President and Second Gentleman also dropped off donuts from M&T Donuts to the firefighters of Santa Monica Fire Station No.2.
M&T Donuts is a black owned, family owned and run business that has been serving the Compton, Los Angeles community and surrounding cities since 1978. M&T is a landmark in the city of Compton.




  