
    The President today announced his intention to appoint the following individuals to be members of the President's Committee on the National Medal of Science for terms expiring December 31, 1985.
Katherine S. Bao will succeed David Baltimore. Dr. Bao is a pediatric cardiologist in Los Angeles, Calif. She also serves as a district medical consultant, Los Angeles Department of Rehabilitation, State of California, and as clinical assistant professor in pediatrics and cardiology, attending physician, University of California at Los Angeles. Dr. Bao is married, has two children, and resides in Los Angeles. She was born September 7, 1920.
Thomas B. Day will succeed Mary Jane Osborn. He is president of San Diego State University. He also serves as a visiting physicist at Brookhaven National Laboratory and Argonne National Laboratory. He is a fellow of the American Physical Society and a member of the American Association for the Advancement of Science. Dr. Day is married, has nine children, and resides in San Diego. He was born March 7, 1932.
Ryal R. Poppa will succeed Chien-Shiung Wu. He is chairman, president, and chief executive officer of BMC Industries, Inc., in St. Paul, Minn. Previously he was chairman and chief executive officer of Los Angeles based Pertec, manufacturer of computers. Mr. Poppa is past chairman and currently a director and member of the executive committee of the Computer and Communications Industry Association. He is married, has two children, and resides in White Bear Lake, Minn. He was born November 7, 1933.
Allan Spitz will succeed Steven Weinberg. Dr. Spitz is vice president for academic affairs and professor of political science at the University of Wyoming. Previously he was dean of the College of Liberal Arts and professor of political science at the University of New Hampshire. He currently serves as a member of the executive council of the National Association of State Universities and Land Grant Colleges. He is married, has two children, and resides in Laramie, Wyo. He was born October 9, 1928.
  