
    "While the White House claims there's 'no specific reason' President Obama hasn't met with his jobs council in six months, there are many reasons why he should have. With our economy faltering and the middle class struggling, President Obama should take all the advice he can get on how to create jobs and grow the economy. With more than 100 political fundraisers since his last jobs council meeting, the President's priorities seem clear." —Ryan Williams, Romney Campaign Spokesman
Yesterday, The White House Said There Was "No Specific Reason" President Obama Hasn't Met With His Jobs Council For Six Months:
"There's No Specific Reason Except The President Has Obviously Got A Lot On His Plate." QUESTION: "On the Jobs Council, obviously who haven't met formally or publicly for six months — why exactly is that? ... So there's no reason they haven't met publicly?" CARNEY: "No, there's no specific reason except the President has obviously got a lot on his plate." (White House Press Briefing, 7/18/12)
Specific Reason Number One: The Millions Of Americans Struggling For Work
More Than Twenty-Three Million Americans Are Unemployed, Underemployed, Or Have Stopped Looking For Work. (Bureau Of Labor Statistics, www.bls.gov, 7/7/12)
Specific Reason Number Two: Staggering Chronic Unemployment
The Current Number Of Long-Term Unemployed Americans Is "Staggering" With "The Average Length Of Time The Unemployed Have Spent Out Of Work" Climbing Steadily Higher. "The numbers are staggering. The ranks of the long-term unemployed swelled last month from 5.1 million to 5.4 million, and those individuals now account for 42.8% of the unemployed. Meanwhile, the average length of time the unemployed have spent out of work has climbed steadily higher -- and older Americans have been the hardest hit." (Charles Riley, "Long-Term Unemployment Crisis Rolls On," CNN Money, 6/11/12)
Specific Reason Number Three: A Dismal Jobs Market
"The Weakest Job-Adding Quarter In Two Years..." CNBC's JOHN HARWOOD: "Just 80,000 jobs added in the month of June, Michelle. 8.2% unemployment rate, unchanged, 12.7 million unemployed people, also unchanged. That makes the second quarter the weakest job-adding quarter in two years, an average of 75,000 jobs added in the second quarter of this year." (CNBC's "Squawk Box," 7/6/12)
Specific Reason Number Four: Tepid Economic Growth
First-Quarter GDP Was A "Tepid" 1.9%, Which Is "Too Weak To Lower The Unemployment Rate." "Applications for unemployment benefits stayed above a level last week that is generally considered too high to lower the unemployment rate. And the annual growth rate for the U.S. economy in the January-March quarter was unchanged at a tepid 1.9 percent. ... Growth of around 1.9 percent typically generates roughly 90,000 jobs a month. That's considered too weak to lower the unemployment rate, which was 8.2 percent last month." (Christopher S. Rugaber, "Tepid Economic Growth Weighs On US Job Market," The Associated Press, 6/28/12)
Specific Reason Number Five: Americans Have Lost Faith In His Leadership
Only 39 Percent Of Americans Support President Obama's Handling Of The Economy, While 55 Percent Of Americans Disapprove. "But with job growth tailing off since spring and the Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, wondering aloud whether the labor market is 'stuck in the mud,' the poll showed a significant shift in opinion about Mr. Obama's handling of the economy, with 39 percent now saying they approved and 55 percent saying they disapproved." (Jim Rutenberg And Marjorie Connelly, "Economic Fears Hurting Obama, Poll Indicates," The New York Times, 7/19/12)
  