
    Pool Reports by Tal Kopan, The Boston Globe 



Sent:
Reports:




July 8, 202215:41

VP pool report 1: Checking in
Good afternoon from the White House. I will be your pooler for today's VP Harris event about abortion rights with state lawmakers.
We are holding in EEOB for the event.
The event will be live-streamed at www.whitehouse.gov/live so I will not be sending quotes, but I will send along any relevant atmospheric details.
Here is some background from her office
On Background from a White House Official
Today, July 8, 2022, Vice President Kamala Harris will convene state legislative leaders from Indiana, Florida, South Dakota, Nebraska, and Montana who are fighting on the frontlines to protect reproductive rights. All 5 states have Republican-controlled state legislatures and Republican governors, and may soon call special sessions to pass abortion bans. Legal abortion may soon end in Indiana, Nebraska, and Montana – Indiana's special session is already scheduled to begin July 25. South Dakota and Florida have already banned abortion – South Dakota from fertilization, and Florida from 15 weeks of pregnancy – but both states may convene special sessions to potentially pass further restrictions.
During the meeting, the Vice President will convey the Administration's commitment to protecting access to reproductive health care, and she will encourage the legislators to continue defending reproductive rights and freedoms at the state level.
The convening follows meetings about reproductive rights that the Vice President held with health care providers, faith leaders, constitutional law and privacy experts, advocates, and Attorneys General. The meeting will take place in the Vice President's Ceremonial Office and will be livestreamed at www.whitehouse.gov/live.
Participants: 

Representative Phil GiaQuinta (Indiana House Minority Leader)
Representative Fentrice Driskell (Florida incoming House Minority Leader)
Representative Erin Healy (South Dakota House Minority Whip)
Senator Patty Pansing Brooks (Nebraska State Senator)
Senator Diane Sands (Montana State Senator)

The Vice President's Leadership:

Vice President Harris has spent her career fighting for the health, safety, and wellbeing of women. She is playing a leading role championing and protecting reproductive rights. She forcefully spoke out about the Supreme Court overturning Roe v. Wade in Dobbs v. Jackson Women's Health Organization, and she will continue to make the case for protecting reproductive health care access and the right to privacy.

On June 28, 2022, the Vice President joined a meeting with State Attorneys General about safeguarding reproductive rights in their states. (Readout)
On June 24, 2022, the Vice President delivered remarks about the Supreme Court striking down Roe, where she said the fight is not over. (Remarks)
On June 23, 2022, the Vice President convened State Attorneys General from seven states to discuss the fight for reproductive rights. (Remarks; Readout)
On June 23, 2022, the Vice President convened a coalition call with thousands of advocates to discuss the fight to protect reproductive rights.
On June 14, 2022, the Vice Presidentconvened constitutional law, privacy, and technology experts to discuss what is at stake if Roe v. Wade is overruled. (Remarks; Readout)
On June 6, 2022, the Vice President convened faith leaders to discuss reproductive rights and the path forward. (Remarks; Readout)
On June 2, 2022, the Vice President released a video about what is at stake withRoe v. Wade. (Video; Article)
On May 11, 2022, the Vice President virtually met with doctors and nurses on the frontlines about the impact that overturning Roe v. Wade would have on reproductive health care. (Remarks;Readout)
On January 22, 2022, following the oral arguments in Dobbs, the Vice President released a video marking the 49thanniversary of Roe v. Wade. ( Video; Article)
On September 9, 2021, the Vice President met with reproductive health care providers and patients at the White House to discuss the impact of Texas Senate Bill 8 and other restrictions on reproductive health. (Remarks)


The Vice President is a longtime supporter of codifying Roe in federal legislation.

On May 11, 2022, the Vice President presided over the Senate's vote on the Women's Health Protection Act. (Video)


The Vice President is a longtime champion of protecting reproductive rights.

As California Attorney General, the Vice President signed onto multiple amicus briefs to ensure women have full access to their reproductive health care.


The Vice President also has a long record of defending privacy rights.

In July 2012, then-Attorney General of California, Vice President Harris created the Privacy Enforcement and Protection Unit to protect consumer and individual privacy through civil prosecution of those who violate state and federal privacy laws.


The Biden-Harris Administration has made historic commitments to advancing gender equality, including standing up the White House's first-ever Gender Policy Council, dedicated to driving a whole-of-government effort that is advancing gender equity and equality, from championing women's access to high quality and equitable health care; to women's rights, equal opportunities and pay, equal protection, and safety from gender-based harassment and violence.

The President and Vice President have continued to stand side by side with women to protect and defend the long-recognized, constitutional right to abortion.
In response to Texas's SB 8, the President and Vice President directed the Gender Policy Council and White House Counsel to lead a whole-of-government effort to protect women's rights across the country.
The Biden-Harris Administration is continuing to speak out as extremist Republican legislators are weaponizing the use of the law in states across the country to punish and criminalize women.


The Vice President will continue to work with Members of Congress, state advocates and legislators, stakeholders, and those on the frontlines of the fight to protect reproductive rights.




July 8, 202215:54

VP pool report 1a: Speaking order
We're still holding at the base of the stairs, but the VP's office shares this speaking order:
Speaking order of participants:

Indiana: Rep. Phil GiaQuinta, House Minority Leader
Florida: Representative Fentrice Driskell, incoming House Democratic Leader
South Dakota: Representative Erin Healy, House Minority Whip
Nebraska: Sen. Patty Pansing Brooks
Montana: Senator Diane Sands




July 8, 202216:04

VP pool report 2: Remarks ongoing
The pool was let into the VP's ceremonial office at 4:02 pm. She began her remarks as soon as we were in position.
She is at the head of the table with Julie Chavez Rodriguez to her right. The five lawmakers are around the table and other staff is lining the room.
Remarks ongoing.



July 8, 202216:31

VP pool report 3: Remarks over
You saw it live.
Harris spoke for about 5 minutes before hearing from the lawmakers around the room.
As each spoke, she gave them looks of rapt attention and nodded her head along to what they said, sometimes murmuring an "mmhmm." She occasionally took a note. Pool was ushered out without getting any questions.
There was a shouted question about supporting a public health emergency but I'm not sure if it was audible.
One thing that likely wasn't audible on the feed was some sporadic random sounds of cheering and applause from elsewhere in the EEOB or outside perhaps that the pool could hear while Harris give her opening remarks. It stopped before the lawmakers started speaking.
That's all from me! I tweeted a few pictures @talkopan and holler if you have any questions.




  