
    WASHINGTON – Today, President Barack Obama announced his appointment of the following individuals to the National Council on Federal Labor-Management Relations:

J. David Cox – Member, National Council on Federal Labor-Management Relations 
Michael B. Filler – Member, National Council on Federal Labor-Management Relations 
David J. Holway – Member, National Council on Federal Labor-Management Relations 
H.T. Nguyen – Member, National Council on Federal Labor-Management Relations 

The Council, created in 2009 by Executive Order, is tasked with advising the President on matters involving labor-management relations in the executive branch. The Council is co-chaired by the Director of the Office of Personnel Management, Katherine Archuleta, and the Deputy Director for Management of the Office of Management and Budget, Beth Cobert.
President Obama said, "I am grateful that these distinguished individuals have offered their wise counsel to help foster successful labor-management relations within the executive branch. I look forward to continuing this important dialogue with them for years to come."
President Obama announced his appointment of the following individuals:
J. David Cox, Appointee for Member, National Council on Federal Labor-Management Relations 
J. David Cox is President of the American Federation of Government Employees (AFGE), an affiliate of the AFL-CIO, a position he has held since 2012. Mr. Cox has also served on the Federal Salary Council since 2010. He was National Secretary-Treasurer of AFGE from 2006 to 2012. Prior to joining AFGE's leadership, Mr. Cox worked for the Department of Veterans Affairs from 1983 to 2006. He became a registered nurse in 1983. Mr. Cox is a member of the AFL-CIO Executive Council and has been Vice President of the North Carolina State AFL-CIO since 1993. He is also Chairman of the Executive Committee of the AFL-CIO's Department for Professional Employees (DPE) and Chairman of the AFL-CIO's Union Veterans Council. Mr. Cox received an A.S. in nursing from Rowan-Cabarrus Community College.
Michael B. Filler, Appointee for Member, National Council on Federal Labor-Management Relations 
Michael B. Filler is the Director of the Public Services Division of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters (IBT), with responsibility for overseeing the representation of over 260,000 public and professional employees throughout the United States, Canada, and Puerto Rico. He was first appointed to the National Council on Federal Labor-Management Relations in 2010, and was appointed for a second term in 2012. From 2003 to 2005, Mr. Filler was the Associate Director of the IBT's Education Department. Previously, Mr. Filler worked at the National Treasury Employees Union (NTEU), serving in various positions from 1985 to 1999, including Director of Negotiations, Northeast Regional Director, and National Field Representative. Mr. Filler worked at the Federal Election Commission as a Branch Chief from 1981 to 1984 and as a Reports Analyst from 1976 to 1980. In addition, he was a founding member of the Federal Workers Alliance, an active participant in the United Department of Defense Workers Coalition, and the Teamsters' Delegate to the Public Services International Convention in Vienna, Austria in 2007. Mr. Filler received a B.A. in Political Science from American University.
David J. Holway, Appointee for Member, National Council on Federal Labor-Management Relations 
David J. Holway is the President of the National Association of Government Employees (NAGE) and the International Brotherhood of Police Officers (IBPO). He was first appointed to the National Council on Federal Labor-Management Relations in 2010, and was appointed for a second term in 2012. Prior to his current position, Mr. Holway served in many capacities at NAGE, including Lead Negotiator and Legislative Director. He also previously held several government positions, including Deputy Commissioner in the Massachusetts Department of Correction, Chief Financial Officer at the Norfolk County Hospital, and Budget and Staff Director at the Massachusetts Legislative Committee on Counties. Mr. Holway served on the Cambridge, Massachusetts School Committee from 1978 to 1979. In 2011, he began serving his second four-year term as a member of the Employee Thrift Advisory Council. Mr. Holway received a B.S. from Boston State College.
H.T. Nguyen, Appointee for Member, National Council on Federal Labor-Management Relations 
H.T. Nguyen is the Executive Director/General Counsel of the Federal Education Association (FEA), a state affiliate of the National Education Association representing federally-employed educators. He was first appointed to the National Council on Federal Labor-Management Relations in 2010, and was appointed for a second term in 2012. Previously, Mr. Nguyen served as the Deputy General Counsel for the FEA from 1988 to 1998, where he was the FEA's lead attorney in all major cases involving the Association. From 1984 to 1988, Mr. Nguyen was a Staff Attorney with the Overseas Education Association, another affiliate of the National Education Association. In 1983, Mr. Nguyen was an associate at Berger & Miranda in San Jose, CA. From 1978 to 1980, he was a case worker for the International Rescue Committee in Washington, DC. Mr. Nguyen received a B.A. in American Government and an M.A. in International Relations from The Catholic University of America, and a J.D. from the Columbus School of Law at The Catholic University of America.
  