
    "Each day, more small-business owners from around the nation have spoken out against President Obama's out-of-touch comments about who built their businesses. Business owners — like all Americans — realize the only way to get America's economy back on track is to elect a president who understands hard work and entrepreneurship build businesses, not government programs." — Ryan Williams, Romney Campaign Spokesman
Small-Business Owners Continue To Weigh In On President Obama's Out-Of-Touch Claim That Americans Didn't Build Their Businesses:
Michael Duffy, The President Of Per Mar Security Services In Iowa, Said President Obama's Comments "Reveal A View Of The Economy That Is Fundamentally At Odds With Most Americans." "But there is another context that is equally if not more important than the one surrounding Obama's comments in Roanoke, Va. It is the greater context of this president's actions and words over the last several months and indeed his entire presidency. They reveal a view of the economy that is fundamentally at odds with most Americans, and they help to explain why the president has had so much difficulty turning around the economy." (Michael Duffy, "Business, Not The Government, Built This Country," Iowa City Press-Citizen, 7/29/12)
Jimmy Yang, A Business Owner From Virginia, Said President Obama "Really Hurt Our Feelings." "Jimmy Yang — who emigrated from China 20 years ago and now owns a business in Fredericksburg, Va. — said it's Romney's policies, not Obama's, that offer new immigrants a better shot at the American dream. ... 'I want to come back to a statement from our current president,' he continued. 'If you got a business, you didn't build that, somebody else made that happen,' — which really hurt our feelings,' Yang said." (Juana Summers And Katie Glueck, "Asian-American Vote Key For Both Parties," Politico, 7/28/12)
Todd Gibbs, Owner Of ASGCO In Pennsylvania: "He Hasn't Walked In My Shoes Or Any Other Small Businessman's Shoes."  "Toomey was joined by ASGCO owner Todd Gibbs, Bill Ginder, owner of Allentown-based Climate Specialists, a heating and cooling equipment dealer, and Ben Beiler, owner of BenCo Technology, a Chester County precision laser-cutting and manufacturing company, each of whom said they were outraged by Obama's remarks. 'He hasn't walked in my shoes or any other small businessman's shoes,' Gibbs said." (Scott Kraus, "Toomey Brings Romney's 'You Didn't' Build That' Attack To Allentown," Allentown Morning Call, 7/27/12)
Dan Withrow, Owner Of CSS Distribution In Kentucky, Said President Obama "Has A Tainted Sense Of What Works And What Doesn't" In The Economy. "A recent Gallup Poll found that 59 percent of business owners disapproved of the commander-in-chief's comments, and that figure includes Dan Withrow, who employees 15 workers at CSS Distribution, in Louisville, Ky. 'He has a tainted sense of what works and what doesn't,' Withrow said." (Perry Chiaramonte, "'You Didn't Build That': Small Biz Owners On The Brink Seethe Over Obama's Comments," Fox News, 7/27/12)
Penny Crochiere, Owner Of Pilates By Penny In Wisconsin: "It Was Quite A Big Pill That Should Not Have Been Swallowed By Anybody That Has A Business." "'If you've got a business, you didn't build that, someone else made it happen,' Obama said. 'It was quite a big pill that should not have been swallowed by anybody that has a business,' Penny Crochiere, owner of Pilates by Penny in Eau Claire said." (Joe Nelson, "Eau Claire Area Small Business Owners React To Obama's 'You Didn't Build That' Comment," WEAU-TV, 7/27/12)
  