
    The following releases of the Office of the White House Press Secretary, distributed during the period covered by this issue, are not included in the issue.
Released June 27, 1977
Announcement: nomination of Kenneth J. Mighell to be United States Attorney for the Northern District of Texas
Released June 28, 1977
Announcement: on the meeting of the President with President Perez of Venezuela
Released June 29, 1977
Announcement: nomination of T. F. Gilroy Daly to be United States District Judge for the District of Connecticut; Peter E. Corning to be United States Attorney for the Northern District of New York; Joseph F. Dolan to be United States Attorney for the District of Colorado; James J. Gillespie to be United States Attorney for the Eastern District of Washington; Charles E. Graves to be United States Attorney for the District of Wyoming; D. Lee Rampey, Jr., to be United States Attorney for the Middle District of Georgia; Edward N. Keloidal to be United States Marshal for the District of Hawaii; and Hubert T. Taylor to be United States Marshal for the Northern District of West Virginia
News briefing: on executive branch reorganization studies--by Bert Lance, Director, and Harrison Wellford, Executive Associate Director for Reorganization and Management, Office of Management and Budget
Announcement: appointment by USIA Director John Reinhabit of R. Peter Stratus as Assistant Director of the United States Information Agency and Director of the Voice of America
Released June 30, 1977
Announcement: nomination of Harold M. Edward to be United States Attorney for the Western District of North Carolina.
Released July 1, 1977
Announcement: on the release of the comments made by Federal departments and agencies on the Federal Power Commission recommendations to the President on how best to transport Alaska natural gas to the Lower 48 States
News conference: on FPC recommendations concerning Alaska natural gas--by Lese J. Goodman, Assistant Administrator for Energy Resource Development, Federal Energy Administration
  