
    To the Congress of the United States:
I am pleased to transmit to the Congress, in accordance with Section 123d of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended (42 U.S.C. 2153(d)), the text of the proposed Agreement for Cooperation Between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt Concerning Peaceful Uses of Nuclear Energy and accompanying annex and agreed minute; my written approval, authorization and determination concerning the agreement; and the memorandum of the Director of the United States Arms Control and Disarmament Agency with the Nuclear Proliferation Assessment Statement concerning the agreement. The joint memorandum submitted to me by the Secretaries of State and Energy, which includes a summary of the provisions of the agreement, and the views and recommendations of the Director of the Arms Control and Disarmament Agency and the Members of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, is also enclosed.
The Atomic Energy Act sets forth certain requirements for new agreements for peaceful nuclear cooperation with other countries. In my judgment, the proposed agreement for cooperation between the United States and Egypt, together with its accompanying agreed minute, meets all statutory requirements.
The proposed bilateral agreement reflects the desire of the Governments of the United States and Egypt to establish a framework for peaceful nuclear cooperation between our two countries in a manner which recognizes our shared non-proliferation objectives, the economic and energy development needs of Egypt, and the friendly and harmonious relations between the United States and Egypt.
In February, Egypt ratified the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. This is an important step toward controlling the dangers of the spread of nuclear weapons, and is a reaffirmation of Egypt's longstanding commitment to the objectives of this Treaty and its commitment to peace and stability in the Middle East and Africa. This proposed agreement fully recognizes this important step.
I believe that this agreement will further the non-proliferation and other foreign policy interests of the United States. I have considered the views and recommendations of the interested agencies in reviewing it and have determined that its performance will promote, and will not constitute an unreasonable risk to, the common defense and security. Accordingly, I have approved the agreement and authorized its execution, and urge that the Congress give it favorable consideration.
RONALD REAGAN
The White House,
July 6, 1981.
  