
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
June 28
The President announced his intention to appoint Norman J. Ornstein and Leslie Moonves as Cochairs of the Advisory Committee on Public Interest Obligations of Digital Television Broadcasters.
June 29
In the evening, the President and Hillary Clinton returned to the White House from a weekend stay at Camp David, MD.
June 30
In the morning, the President traveled to Boston, MA. He traveled to New York City in the afternoon, and returned to Washington, DC, after midnight.
The President announced the nomination of Wendy Ruth Sherman to be Counselor of the Department of State with the rank of Ambassador.
The President announced his nomination of Maura Harty to be Ambassador to Paraguay.
The President announced his nomination of Curtis Warren Kamman to be Ambassador to Colombia.
The President announced his nomination of Anne Marie Sigmund to be Ambassador to the Kyrgyz Republic.
The President announced his nomination of Daniel V. Speckhard to be Ambassador to Belarus.
July 1
The White House announced that the President promoted J. Terry Edmonds to the position of Deputy Assistant to the President and Deputy Director of Speechwriting.
The White House announced that the President promoted Stephanie S. Streett to the position of Assistant to the President and Director of Presidential Scheduling.
The White House announced that the President promoted Michael Waldman to be Assistant to the President and Director of Speechwriting.
The White House announced that the President appointed Paul Begala as Assistant to the President and Counselor to the President, a role he will assume in August.
The White House announced that the President named Sidney Blumenthal as Assistant to the President as part of the communications team, which he will join in August.
The White House announced that the President will meet with President Eduard Shevardnadze of Georgia at the White House on July 18.
The White House announced that the President will meet with President Heydar Aliyev of Azerbaijan at the White House on August 1.
July 2
In the afternoon, the President traveled to Baltimore, MD, where he met with Baltimore Orioles and Philadelphia Phillies players at Oriole Park at Camden Yards before attending the game. Following the game, the President returned to Washington, DC.
The White House announced that the President and Hillary Clinton will depart for Spain on the evening of July 4, and that they will have a private visit with King Juan Carlos and Queen Sofia of Spain in Palma de Mallorca on July 7. They then will travel to Madrid, where the President will participate in the NATO Summit, July 8-9.
The President announced the nomination of Gordon D. Giffin to be Ambassador to Canada.
The President announced the nomination of James F. Mack to be Ambassador to Guyana.
July 3
The President announced his intention to nominate Hershel Gober to be Secretary of the Department of Veterans' Affairs.
The President announced his intention to nominate Rita D. Hayes as Deputy U.S. Trade Representative in Geneva.
The White House announced that the President has accepted the invitation of Queen Margrethe II of Denmark to stay at her summer palace, following his arrival in Denmark on July 11. He will meet with the Prime Minister and address the people of Denmark on July 12.
The White House announced that on July 17, the President will address the 88th annual convention of the NAACP in Pittsburgh, PA, and the national convention of the National Association of Black Journalists in Chicago, IL.
  