
    "It's been two years since President Obama visited Carnegie Mellon University and promised that the economy 'is getting stronger by the day.' But after 41 straight months of unemployment above 8% and widespread weakening across our economy, it is more clear than ever that President Obama's policies are holding us back from a real recovery. On Day One, Mitt Romney will implement a bold, pro-growth agenda to jumpstart our economy, spark job creation, and finally get Americans back to work." —Andrea Saul, Romney Campaign Spokesperson
Two Years Ago, President Obama Promised Carnegie Mellon University That The Economy "Is Getting Stronger By The Day":
President Obama, At Carnegie Mellon University In 2010: "This Economy Is Getting Stronger By The Day." OBAMA: "So despite temporary setbacks, uncertain world events, and the resulting up and downs of the market, this economy is getting stronger by the day. ... In the immediate future, this means doing whatever is necessary to keep the recovery going and to spur job growth." (President Barack Obama, Remarks At Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, PA, 6/2/10)
Today President Obama Is Back At Carnegie Mellon University, Asking For More Time In The Wake Of Further "Dismal" Economic News:
The Economy In June "Remained In A Spring Slump" As Employers Added A Lower-Than-Expected 80,000 Jobs. "The employment market remained in a spring slump in June as employers added 80,000 jobs. The nation's unemployment rate was unchanged at 8.2% for the second consecutive month, the Labor Department said Friday. A consensus of economists had estimated that payrolls grew by 95,000 jobs last month, including 103,000 in the private sector." ("8.2% Unemployment Rate Unchanged In June," USA Today, 7/6/12)
Last Month, U.S. Employers "Hired At A Dismal Pace." "U.S. employers hired at a dismal pace in June, raising pressure on the Federal Reserve to do more to boost the economy and further imperiling President Barack Obama's chances of reelection in November." (Jason Lange, "U.S. Hiring Stuck In Low Gear In June," Reuters, 7/6/12)
"The Weakest Job-Adding Quarter In Two Years..." HARWOOD: "Just 80,000 jobs added in the month of June, Michelle. 8.2% unemployment rate, unchanged, 12.7 million unemployed people, also unchanged. That makes the second quarter the weakest job-adding quarter in two years, an average of 75,000 jobs added in the second quarter of this year." (CNBC's "Squawk Box," 7/6/12)
"The Labor Market Is Making Scant Progress Toward Reducing Joblessness." "Employers in the U.S. hired fewer workers than forecast in June, showing the labor market is making scant progress toward reducing joblessness." (Alex Kowalski, "Payrolls In U.S. Rose 80,000 In June; Jobless Rate 8.2%," Bloomberg, 7/6/12)
"The Economy Is Struggling..." "U.S. employers added only 80,000 jobs in June, a third straight month of weak hiring that shows the economy is struggling three years after the recession ended." (Christopher S. Rugaber, "June Jobs Report: U.S. Adds 80,000 Jobs; Unemployment Rate Unchanged," The Associated Press, 7/6/12)
"U.S. Job Growth Barely Picked Up In June, The Latest Sign That Economic Growth Has Slowed." "U.S. job growth barely picked up in June, the latest sign that economic growth has slowed. Nonfarm payrolls grew by 80,000 last month, the Labor Department said Friday. The politically important unemployment rate, obtained by a separate survey of U.S. households, was unchanged at 8.2%." (Jeffrey Sparshott and Eric Morath, "Jobs Data Indicate Slowing Growth," The Wall Street Journal, 7/6/12)
"The Dour News Is A Blow To President Barack Obama..." "The dour news is a blow to President Barack Obama, who is asking voters for a second term amid constant attacks from Mitt Romney over his handling of the economy." (Patrick Reis, "Jobs Report: Only 80K Last Month," Politico, 7/6/12)
Despite President Obama's Assurances, The Private Sector Is Not "Doing Fine" Under His Leadership:
"Manufacturing In The U.S. Unexpectedly Shrank In June For The First Time In Almost Three Years." "Oil fell after manufacturing in the U.S. unexpectedly shrank in June for the first time in almost three years. Prices dropped 1.4 percent as the Institute for Supply Management's U.S. factory index fell to 49.7 in June from 53.5 a month earlier." (Moming Zhou, "Oil Drops As U.S. Manufacturing Shrinks In June," Bloomberg, 7/2/12)


    Manufacturing Will Likely Remain "Weak For The Next Few Months." "Manufacturing will likely stay weak for the next few months. The ISM's gauge of new orders, a measure of future activity, plunged from 60.1 to 47.8. That's the first time it has fallen below 50 since April 2009, when the economy was still in recession." (Christopher S. Rugaber,  "US Manufacturing Shrinks For First Time In 3 Years," The Associated Press, 7/2/12)
  

"The Service Sector In June Grew At The Slowest Pace In Nearly Two And A Half Years, More Evidence That The Economy Has Weakened." ("Service Sector Increases At Slowest Pace In 2 Years," The Associated Press, 7/5/12)
"Stubbornly High Unemployment And Anxiety About The Economy Took A Toll On Top U.S. Retailers' Sales In June..." "Stubbornly high unemployment and anxiety about the economy took a toll on top U.S. retailers' sales in June, raising concerns that shoppers are penny-pinching ahead of the back-to-school season. Costco Wholesale Corp (COST.O), Macy's Inc (M.N), Kohl's Corp (KSS.N) and Target Corp (TGT.N) all reported disappointing June sales at stores open at least a year." (Phil Wahba, "'Stagnant' Economy Takes Toll On U.S. Retailers' June Sales," Reuters, 7/5/12)
America's First Quarter GDP Was A "Tepid" 1.9%, Which Is "Too Weak To Lower The Unemployment Rate." "Applications for unemployment benefits stayed above a level last week that is generally considered too high to lower the unemployment rate. And the annual growth rate for the U.S. economy in the January-March quarter was unchanged at a tepid 1.9 percent. ... Growth of around 1.9 percent typically generates roughly 90,000 jobs a month. That's considered too weak to lower the unemployment rate, which was 8.2 percent last month." (Christopher S. Rugaber, "Tepid Economic Growth Weighs On US Job Market," The Associated Press, 6/28/12)
  