
    The President today announced his intention to appoint the following individuals to be members of the President's Commission for the Study of Ethical Problems in Medicine and Biomedical and Behavioral Research for terms expiring July 18, 1986:
H. Thomas Ballantine, Jr., is clinical professor of surgery emeritus and senior neurosurgeon at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston, Mass. He graduated from Princeton University (B.S., 1933), Johns Hopkins University Medical School (M.D., 1937), the University of Michigan (M.D., 1947), and received an honorary degree from Suffolk University (D.Sc., 1969). He is married, has two children, and resides in Boston. He was born August 9, 1912. He will succeed Carolyn Antonides Williams.
Bruce Kelton Jacobson is director of the family practice residency program at John Peter Smith Hospital in Ft. Worth, Tex. He is also associate professor, department of family practice and community medicine, Southwestern Medical School, in Dallas, Tex. He graduated from Texas Christian University (B.A., 1950) and Baylor College of Medicine (M.D., 1954). He is married, has seven children, and resides in Ft. Worth, Tex. He was born August 30, 1926. He will succeed Mario Garcia-Palmieri.
John J. Moran is director of the Moran Foundation, which was established in 1970 to fund research in medicine. He founded HYCEL, Inc., a diagnostic reagents and instruments business, in 1955. He graduated from the University of California at Santa Barbara (B.S., 1948) and attended the Graduate School at the University of California at Los Angeles. He is married, has two children, and resides in Houston, Tex. He was born March 13, 1920. He will succeed Anne A. Scitovsky.
Kay Toma is president of Bell Medical Center in Bell, Calif. He is a member of the following organizations: AAFP, fellow of the Royal Society of Health of London, and the Los Angeles County Medical Association. He graduated from the University of Oklahoma and the University of Oklahoma School of Medicine (M.D., 1941). He is married, has five children, and resides in Whittier, Calif. He was born November 10, 1913. He will succeed Albert Rupert Johnson.
  