
    Today, Biden for President and the Wisconsin Coordinated Campaign announced additional key staff hires in Wisconsin. The new staff have deep experience in the Badger State, and include alumni from Senator Tammy Baldwin and Governor Tony Evers' successful 2018 campaigns. They join State Director Danielle Melfi, Senior Advisors Scott Spector and Shirley Ellis, Deputy State Director Garren Randolph, and Communications Director Nate Evans.
Tanya Bjork, Strategic Advisor Tanya is a veteran of the last three presidential campaigns in Wisconsin having served in senior leadership in both Obama campaigns and as a Senior Advisor to the Clinton campaign. Her previous experience also includes Regional Director for EMILY's List, the AFL-CIO, Protect Our Care and Director of Federal Affairs for Governor Jim Doyle.
John Laadt, Wisconsin Deputy State Director John joins the team after serving in a number of roles on the Biden Campaign. He served as Massachusetts State Director, led primary efforts in Wisconsin, and has focused on the state since. Prior to this campaign cycle, he served as Boston Mayor Marty Walsh's campaign manager in 2017.
Chris Walloch, Wisconsin Coordinated Campaign Director A Wisconsin native, Chris successfully led coordinated campaign efforts in Wisconsin during the 2018 campaign cycle to re-elect Senator Tammy Baldwin, elect Governor Tony Evers and Lieutenant governor Mandela Barnes, Attorney General Josh Kaul, and Democrats up and down the ballot.
Devin Remiker, Wisconsin Deputy Coordinated Campaign Director Devin joins the team after leading the DPW's efforts for the April Supreme Court election, including engineering DPW's vaunted absentee program. Devin formerly served as Congressman Ron Kind's campaign manager in La Crosse, DPW's Political Director, and DPW's Executive Director for Political Affairs. Devin has deep Wisconsin roots, having been born and raised in Two Rivers, WI before going to University of Wisconsin – La Crosse.
Nadiyah Groves, Milwaukee Director A native of Milwaukee, Nadiyah previously served as the Director of Grassroots Activation for the Milwaukee 2020 Host Committee and on the Public Engagement team for the 2020 Democratic National Convention Committee. In 2018, she worked as Deputy Milwaukee Director for Senator Baldwin's successful reelection campaign.
Elsie Raymer, Wisconsin Political Director A native Wisconsinite, Elsie previously served as Director of Scheduling and Advance for Governor Evers and for Senator Baldwin's successful 2018 campaign. She joins the campaign after working in Wisconsin for the National Education Association (NEA) earlier this cycle.
Matt Dannenberg, Wisconsin Coalitions Director Matt has spent the last 10 years building coalitions on key environmental and democracy policies. In 2018, he served as Political Director at WI Conservation Voters, and most recently led coalitions to promote the 2020 Census & voter registration statewide. He is a proud member of the Bad River Band of Lake Superior Chippewa, Watertown Gosling, and a former Badger cheerleader.
  