
    Memorandum for the Secretary of State, the Secretary of the Treasury, the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of the Interior, the Secretary of Commerce, the Secretary of Energy, the Director of the Office of Management and Budget, the Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs, the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy, the Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy, the Chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers, the Chairman of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, and the Chairman of the Federal Energy Commission 
Subject: The Effect of Uranium Imports on the National Security and Establishment of the United States Nuclear Fuel Working Group
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including section 232 of the Trade Expansion Act of 1962, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1862) (the "Act"), it is hereby ordered as follows:
Section 1. The Secretary of Commerce's Investigation into the Effect of Uranium Imports on the National Security. (a) On April 14, 2019, the Secretary of Commerce (Secretary) transmitted to me a report on his investigation into the effect of imports of uranium (uranium ore, uranium concentrate, uranium hexafluoride, enriched uranium, and enriched uranium in fuel assemblies) on the national security of the United States under section 232 of the Act.
(b) The Secretary found and advised me of his opinion that uranium is being imported into the United States in such quantities and under such circumstances as to threaten to impair the national security of the United States as defined under section 232 of the Act. Currently, the United States imports approximately 93 percent of its commercial uranium, compared to 85.8 percent in 2009. The Secretary found that this figure is because of increased production by foreign state-owned enterprises, which have distorted global prices and made it more difficult for domestic mines to compete.
(c) At this time, I do not concur with the Secretary's finding that uranium imports threaten to impair the national security of the United States as defined under section 232 of the Act. Although I agree that the Secretary's findings raise significant concerns regarding the impact of uranium imports on the national security with respect to domestic mining, I find that a fuller analysis of national security considerations with respect to the entire nuclear fuel supply chain is necessary at this time.
Sec. 2. Establishment of the United States Nuclear Fuel Working Group. (a) I agree with the Secretary that the United States uranium industry faces significant challenges in producing uranium domestically and that this is an issue of national security. The United States requires domestically produced uranium to satisfy Department of Defense (DOD) requirements for maintaining effective military capabilities—including nuclear fuel for the United States Navy's fleet of nuclear-powered aircraft carriers and nuclear-powered submarines, source material for nuclear weapons, and other functions. Domestic mining, milling, and conversion of uranium, however, while significant, are only a part of the nuclear supply chain necessary for national security, including DOD needs.
(b) On June 29, 2017, I announced an initiative to revive and expand the nuclear energy sector and directed a complete review of United States nuclear energy policy to help find new ways to revitalize this crucial energy resource. Nuclear fuel production is critical to a vibrant nuclear energy sector. Over many prior administrations, the Federal Government has neglected to consider the impacts on key components of our nuclear fuel production infrastructure, while simultaneously increasing regulatory barriers for private-sector innovation in this technology.
(c) To address the concerns identified by the Secretary regarding domestic uranium production and to ensure a comprehensive review of the entire domestic nuclear supply chain:
(i) The Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs and the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy shall establish a United States Nuclear Fuel Working Group (Working Group) to develop recommendations for reviving and expanding domestic nuclear fuel production.
(ii) The Working Group shall include the following members or their designees:
(A) the Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs, who shall serve as one of the Co-Chairs;
(B) the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy, who shall serve as the other Co-Chair;
(C) the Secretary of State;
(D) the Secretary of the Treasury;
(E) the Secretary of Defense;
(F) the Secretary of the Interior;
(G) the Secretary of Commerce;
(H) the Secretary of Energy;
(I) a designee of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission;
(J) a designee of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission;
(K) the Director of the Office of Management and Budget;
(L) the Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy;
(M) the Chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers; and
(N) such other officials of the Federal Government as the Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs or the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy may invite to participate.
(iii) The Working Group shall examine the current state of domestic nuclear fuel production to reinvigorate the entire nuclear fuel supply chain, consistent with United States national security and nonproliferation goals.
(iv) Within 90 days of the date of this memorandum, the Working Group, through the Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs and the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy, shall submit a report to the President setting forth the Working Group's findings and making recommendations to further enable domestic nuclear fuel production if needed.
Sec. 3. General Provisions. (a) Nothing in this memorandum shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:
(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; (ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals; or
(iii) existing rights or obligations under international agreements.
(b) This memorandum shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.
(c) This memorandum is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
DONALD J. TRUMP
  