
    STATEMENT OF ADMINISTRATION POLICY
(Senate)(Burdick (D) ND)
S. 2734 incorporates a number of Administration proposals, including new project and project modification authorizations, revenue enhancement provisions, and several new programs. The bill, however, would also duplicate on-going Federal programs and violate the established principles and standards affecting the authorization of water resources projects. Unless the previsions listed below are deleted or amended satisfactorily, the Secretary of the Army will recommend that the President veto S. 2734.

—   Projects and project-related activity that are not consistent with: (1) the prescribed cost-sharing principles established under the Water Resources Development Act of 1986, (2) either the responsibility of the Federal government or the mission of the Army Corps of Engineers, and (3) the established criteria for economic, engineering, and environmental feasibility.
—   The combined sewer overflow demonstration program and the environmental infrastructure assistance program. S. 2734 would authorize $3.25 billion for these two programs, both of which would duplicate, in many respects, on-going Federal programs to enhance the nation's environmental infrastructure.
—   The "National Contaminated Sediment Assessment and Management Act", which would impose new, unreasonable sediment quality standards for all dredging and disposal activities. The Act would establish procedures and standards that are, at this time, wholly inappropriate for regulatory use; create conflicting regulatory priorities between different statues; and add burdensome new permitting requirements. These problems will undermine the economic health of the nation's ports and could result in the loss of trade and transportation-related jobs. 
The Administration urges the Senate to adopt S. 2500, the Administration's proposal, rather than enact S. 2734.
PAYGO Scoring
S. 2734 would increase Federal receipts and is, therefore, subject to the pay-as-you-go requirement of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1991 (OBRA). OMB's preliminary scoring estimates of this bill are presented in the table below. Final scoring of this legislation may deviate from these estimates. If S. 2734 were enacted, final OMB scoring estimates would be published within 5 days of enactment, as required by OBRA. The cumulative effects of all enacted legislation on direct spending will be issued in monthly reports transmitted to Congress.
Estimates For Pay-As-You-Go($ in millions)


 
1993
1994
1995
1996
1997
1993-97


Receipts
26
21
21
21
21
110


  