
    Prime Minister Fraser, Mrs. Fraser, ladies and gentlemen:
In this Bicentennial Year the United States has been honored to welcome the leaders of many, many friendly nations, and we are especially and particularly pleased that the Prime Minister of Australia has come to Washington, D.C., our Nation's Capital.
Australia is especially close to the hearts of Americans throughout our country. The American and Australian people share common roots, common similarities, and the strongest affinities. We hold in common a devotion to the preservation of liberty not only in our own countries but throughout the world. We share great responsibilities for assisting the emergence of a more just and stable international order.
Mr. Prime Minister, our countries have long been allies in war as well as in peace. We have worked together to support other free nations and to improve the condition of less fortunate people. Our two Governments have a tradition of close consultation that will be continued in our meetings today.
Australia is assuming increased responsibilities on a worldwide basis. Its positions on international issues have not been narrowly confined to self-interest, but have taken on a wider view that we share in this country. We respect this friendly and independent voice across the Pacific. We welcome Australia's important contribution to stability and progress in the Pacific region and in the world at large.
Mr. Prime Minister, you are deeply conscious of the need to preserve a global balance among the great powers. We sincerely appreciate Australia's support for our foreign policy. We assure you that the United States will remain a strong and faithful ally, worthy of Australia's trust.
Australia--its Government and its citizens--have done much to celebrate the American Bicentennial. Festivals have been held in Australia, performers have come to the United States, and Australia will endow a chair of Australian studies at Harvard University. We thank you, and all Australians, for those warm expressions of friendship.
Mr. Prime Minister, you are a very welcome visitor to our Nation's Capital. I look forward to my discussions with you and the continuing close relationships with Australia and its people, our natural friends and allies in every sphere of life.
  