
    Robert O. Blake, Jr., of Maryland, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Career Minister, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Indonesia.
Michael L. Connor, of New Mexico, to be Deputy Secretary of the Interior, vice David J. Hayes, resigned.
France A. Cordova, of New Mexico, to be Director of the National Science Foundation for a term of six years, vice Subra Suresh, resigned.
Thomas Frederick Daughton, of Arizona, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Namibia.
John L. Estrada, of Florida, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago.
Sylvia I. Garcia, of Michigan, to be Chief Financial Officer, Department of Transportation, vice Christopher P. Bertram, resigned.
Philip S. Goldberg, of the District of Columbia, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Career Minister, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of the Philippines.
Jo Emily Handelsman, of Connecticut, to be an Associate Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy, vice Carl Wieman, resigned.
Michael Stephen Hoza, of Washington, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Cameroon.
Amy Jane Hyatt, of California, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Palau.
Noah Bryson Mamet, of California, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Argentine Republic.
L. Paige Marvel, of Maryland, to be a Judge of the United States Tax Court for a term of fifteen years. (Reappointment)
Kenneth L. Mossman, of Arizona, to be a Member of the Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board for a term expiring October 18, 2016, vice John Edward Mansfield, term expired.
Sarah Bloom Raskin, of Maryland, to be Deputy Secretary of the Treasury, vice Neal S. Wolin.
Eunice S. Reddick, of the District of Columbia, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Niger.
Karen Clark Stanton, of Michigan, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Democratic Republic of Timor-Leste.
Gregory B. Starr, of Virginia, to be an Assistant Secretary of State (Diplomatic Security), vice Eric J. Boswell, resigned.
Kenneth R. Weinstein, of the District of Columbia, to be a Member of the Broadcasting Board of Governors for a term expiring August 13, 2014, vice Dennis Mulhaupt, resigned.
  