
    Pool Reports by Eli Stokols, Los Angeles Times 



Sent:
Reports:




July 12, 202210:45

In-town pool report #1 - Good morning
Good morning from the White House, where the Mexican delegation is about to arrive. The pool is gathering soon for the Oval Office spray of POTUS's bilat with Mexican President Andrés Manuel López Obrador (who will be referenced henceforth as AMLO).
As you've likely noticed from the daily guidance, there is no briefing this afternoon. Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre and national security adviser Jake Sullivan will be gaggling late-night aboard AF1 after the departure from JBA for Jerusalem.
We've got the Congressional Picnic on the South Lawn at 4:30 p.m. and a 9:30 p.m. departure for Andrews before handing things off to the out-of-town pool.
I'll be around all day, so holler if you have any questions. Thanks,



July 12, 202210:52

In-town pool report #2 - AMLO arrival
AMLO's SUV, festooned with American and Mexican flags, rolled through the WH north gate at 10:48 a.m. and pulled up to the West Wing portico. Chief of Protocol Rufus Gifford greeted the Mexican president and a woman I assume is his wife as they got out and ushered him inside.
Before entering, AMLO waved to the couple dozen Mexican journalists on hand in the driveway.
We'll be gathering for the spray shortly.



July 12, 202211:48

In-town pool report #3 - POTUS/AMLO comments, spray ongoing
Pool entered the Oval at 11:25 a.m. This is still going, but sending this out now — will follow up when it wraps.
POTUS and AMLO sat side by side in the armchairs at the foot of the sofas and beneath the FDR portrait. Interpreters sat behind them both.
Please check all quotes against transcript.
Biden, in a navy suit with blue striped tie, spoke first, referring to AMLO as "my friend, my partner." And he spoke for several minutes.
"We see Mexico as an equal partner," he began. "Our nations share close ties…and were United through our values and our history."
Biden, reading largely from notecards in his lap, spoke about wanting to strengthen economic ties and "addressing migration as a shared hemispheric challenge."
Biden: "Despite the overhyped headlines that we sometimes see, you and I have a strong, productive relationship…and I would argue a partnership."
"Like is, Mexico has become a top destination of migrants, and here's what we're going to do to address it together…
"My admin is leading the way to creating work opportunities through legal pathways," Biden continued, saying that his administration set "a record" last year by issuing 300K H-2 visas for Mexican workers.
Thanked AMLO "for also stepping up" and issuing visas for Central American migrants in Mexico.
"We're also making historic investments in infrastructure modernization across our nearly 2,000-mile border with Mexico," he said, noting that the BIL is allocating $3.4 billion for upgrades at border stations.
Biden said the US is "also accelerating our efforts to stop the illegal trafficking of fentanyl" and working to slow human struggling. "We need every country in the region to join us," he added, mentioning the migrants found dead in a trailer in San Antonio last month.
"We know we have to meet these challenges together," Biden said as he wrapped at 11:35.
AMLO, in a black suit and green patterned tie, spoke next. He also went on for a bit.
"We're so happy, Mr. President, to be here at the White House once more," he said through an interpreter.
Also speaking from written notes, he said myriad challenges demand greater cooperation between them. "These are truly difficult times," he said, referencing the pandemic, Ukraine war "that has made the economic crisis even worse" and inflation such that "the whole world is suffering."
"This will not be the first or last occasion where we close ranks to help each other," AMLO continued. "In spite of our differences and also in spite of our grievances that are not easy to forget…on many occasions we've been able to coincide and work together as true allies."
AMLO referenced FDR's presidency, saying the circumstances then "are quite similar" to now and that "we should be extracting good lessons" from Roosevelt's New Deal policies and his "good neighbors" policy with continental allies and the "respect for the sovereignty of Mexico." It laid the foundation, he said, for partnership throughout WWII.
As he went on, Biden sat pensively, occasionally writing on his notecards.
He's still going at 11:46…



July 12, 202212:14

In-town pool report #4 - more AMLO, spray wraps
In all, AMLO spoke for 31 minutes (after Biden spoke for 10). Spray ended at 12:11 p.m.
AMLO, continuing his remarks at 11:47, said he's proposing "something similar" to the WW2 era cooperation, noting that the USMCA still leaves "margins for us to intensify our bilateral relationship."
"We should remember that the development of our nations remains fundamentally on our production capacity," he said.
When at 11:51 AMLO joked "President Biden, I'm about to finish," POTUS laughed and interjected that he had been marveling at how still a reporter held their phone to record video.
"Since the energy crisis started, Mexico has used 72 percent of its crude oil exports to the United States," he said. "While we're waiting for prices or gasoline to go down in the United States," he continued, "we have decided that it was necessary for us to allow Americans who live close to the border…to go and get their gasoline on the Mexican side at lower prices."
Biden seemed to be suppressing a grin, looking straight ahead.
AMLO compared the cost of gasoline in the US and Mexico, noting that it's a dollar cheaper per gallon in his country.
Biden covered his mouth as he appeared to stifle a yawn.
AMLO suggested the suspension of tariffs and regulations "so that we can lower prices for consumers in both our countries." He also floated a joint public-private investment plan to produce more goods.
On immigration, he said the US should allow more skilled Mexican and Central American workers into the US "to support" the work force. "I say this in a sincere way and in the most respectful manner, it is indispensable for us to regulrize and give certainty to migrants who for years have lived and worked in a very honest manner and are also contributing to the development of this great nation."
AMLO: "I know your adversaries, the conservatives, are going to be screaming all over the place…but without a bold program…it will not be possible to solve problems. The way out is not through conservatism. The way out is through transformation. We have to be bold in our actions."
"President Biden, we trust you because you respect our sovereignty," he concluded. "Count on us always."
At 12:06, Biden spoke again, telling AMLO, "you've had a lot of important things to say…the thrust of what you're saying, I agree with. We need to work closer together."
Biden reminded AMLO that the US is "the fastest growing" economy in the world, detailing job and wage growth.
"It doesn't mean we don't have problems. We do. And we do believe, I do believe, that working with you we can help solve both our problems."
China, he said, presents "real problems" but they're "solvable."
"I hope I've demonstrated my whole career…my respect for Mexico," which he said was a "great nation."
Finally, at 12:11 after some mild repartee with the press, we were escorted out.



July 12, 202212:42

In-town pool report #5 - lunch lid
We have a lunch lid until 4:15 p.m.



July 12, 202216:26

In-town pool report #6 - congressional picnic underway
At 4:15, the pool was escorted out to a packed and very warm South Lawn for the congressional picnic. This event is open press but for those not able to be here, a bit of the scene:
Dozens of tables and chairs are set up adjacent to the South Portico, which is decorated with the festival stars and stripes bunting. A platform is set up in the driveway for POTUS to speak from. There are lots of food (Philly steaks, brisket, fried chicken baskets and veggie sandwiches in individual boxes) and drink tents on both sides, and a couple Dove ice cream carts. There are four cornhole sets with the presidential seal and two inflatable misting things behind the press riser.
POTUS should be out shortly. His remarks will be live streamed in the usual spot.
Also, I have asked for a time that the AMLO bilat ended but not yet received one.



July 12, 202216:49

In-town pool report #7 - POTUS and FLOTUS arrive at picnic
POTUS and FLOTUS walked out of the South Portico at 4:46.
The First Lady is speaking first and will be followed by POTUS. Again, remarks are available via livestream at whitehouse.gov/live.
A few lawmakers spotted in the crowd: Senators Coons, Murphy, Warnock and Tester (playing cornhole with a few kids), Reps. Schiff, Perlmutter, Bustos, Secretary Buttigieg also here with a slew of WH officials, including Neera Tanden.
Getting cloudier and darker, but also breezier.



July 12, 202216:55

In-town pool report #8 - POTUS remarks conclude + picnic attendees
POTUS spoke briefly about the importance of gatherings like this in solidifying relationships, including with members of the other party. He wrapped at 4:53 saying he planned "to sit down and eat with you" and that he hopes the rain will hold off.
Here is a list of attendees from the WH:
Joining the President, the First Lady, and the Vice President for the White House Congressional Picnic:

The Vice President
Secretary of the Interior Deb Haaland
Secretary of Agriculture Tom Vilsack
Secretary of Commerce Gina Raimondo
Secretary of Health and Human Services Xavier Becerra
Secretary of Transportation Pete Buttigieg
Secretary of Education Miguel Cardona
Secretary of Homeland Security Ali Mayorkas
Speaker Nancy Pelosi (CA-12)
Senator Tammy Baldwin (WI)
Senator Michael Bennet (CO)
Senator Sherrod Brown (OH)
Senator Ben Cardin (MD)
Senator Tom Carper (DE)
Senator Bob Casey (PA)
Senator Chris Coons (DE)
Senator Tammy Duckworth (IL)
Senator Dick Durbin (IL)
Senator Kirsten Gillibrand (NY)
Senator Martin Heinrich (NM)
Senator John Hickenlooper (CO)
Senator Mazie Hirono (HI)
Senator Mark Kelly (AZ)
Senator Angus King (ME)
Senator Amy Klobuchar (MN)
Senator Joe Manchin (WV)
Senator Bob Menendez (NJ)
Senator Chris Murphy (CT)
Senator Jon Ossoff (GA)
Senator Alex Padilla (CA)
Senator Gary Peters (MI)
Senator Jack Reed (RI)
Senator Jacky Rosen (NV)
Senator Bernie Sanders (VT)
Senator Jeanne Shaheen (NH)
Senator Tina Smith (MN)
Senator Debbie Stabenow (MI)
Senator Jon Tester (MT)
Senator Chris Van Hollen (MD)
Senator Ralph Warnock (GA)
Senator Sheldon Whitehouse (RI)
Senator Marsha Blackburn (TN)
Senator Roy Blunt (MO)
Senator John Boozman (AR)
Senator Deb Fischer (NE)
Senator John Kennedy (LA)
Senator Mike Lee (UT)
Senator Lisa Murkowski (AK)
Senator Rob Portman (OH)
Senator Jim Risch (ID)
Senator Tim Scott (SC)
Senator Dan Sullivan (AK)
Senator Pat Toomey (PA)
Senator Todd Young (IN)
Representative Alma Adams (NC-12)
Representative Pete Aguilar (CA-31)
Representative Collin Allred (TX-32)
Representative Jake Auchincloss (MA-04)
Representative Nanette Barragan (CA-44)
Representative Karen Bass (CA-37)
Representative Don Beyer (VA-08)
Representative Sanford Bishop (GA-02)
Representative Earl Blumenauer (OR-03)
Representative Lisa Blunt Rochester (DE-At Large)
Representative Suzanne Bonamici (OR-01)
Representative Carolyn Bourdeaux (GA-07)
Representative Jamaal Bowman (NY-16)
Representative Brendan Boyle (PA-02)
Representative Shontel Brown (OH-11)
Representative Anthony Brown (MD-04)
Representative Cheri Bustos (IL-17)
Representative Salud Carbajal (CA-24)
Representative Andre Carson (IN-07)
Representative Troy Carter (LA-02)
Representative Ed Case (HI-01)
Representative Kathy Castor (FL-14)
Representative Sheila Cherfilus-McCormick (FL-20)
Representative Judy Chu (CA-27)
Representative David Cicilline (RI-01)
Representative Katherine Clark (MA-05)
Representative Emanuel Cleaver (MO-05)
Representative Steve Cohen (TN-09)
Representative Gerry Connolly (VA-11)
Representative Connie Conway (CA-22)
Representative Jim Cooper (TN-05)
Representative Lou Correa (CA-46)
Representative Jim Costa (CA-16)
Representative Joe Courtney (CT-02)
Representative Angie Craig (MN-02)
Representative Charlie Crist (FL-13)
Representative Henry Cuellar (TX-28)
Representative Sharice Davids (KS-03)
Representative Danny Davis (IL-07)
Representative Peter DeFazio (OR-04)
Representative Diana DeGette (CA-01)
Representative Rosa DeLauro (CT-03)
Representative Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11)
Representative Ted Deutch (FL-22)
Representative Debbie Dingell (MI-12)
Representative Lloyd Doggett (TX-35)
Representative Veronica Escobar (TX-16)
Representative Adriano Espaillat (NY-13)
Representative Dwight Evans (PA-03)
Representative Lizzie Fletcher (TX-07)
Representative Bill Foster (IL-11)
Representative Lois Frankel (FL-21)
Representative Ruben Gallego (AZ-07)
Representative John Garamendi (CA-03)
Representative Sylvia Garcia (TX-29)
Representative Jimmy Gomez (CA-34)
Representative Vicente Gonzalez (TX-15)
Representative Josh Gottheimer (NJ-05)
Representative Josh Harder (CA-10)
Representative Jahana Hayes (CT-05)
Representative Brian Higgins (NY-26)
Representative James Himes (CT-04)
Representative Steven Horsford (NV-04)
Representative Steny Hoyer (MD-05)
Representative Jared Huffman (CA-02)
Representative Sheila Jackson Lee (TX-18)
Representative Sara Jacobs (CA-53)
Representative Hakeem Jeffries (NY-08)
Representative Hank Johnson (GA-04)
Representative Mondaire Jones (NY-17)
Representative Marcy Kaptur (OH-09)
Representative Robin Kelly (IL-02)
Representative Ro Khanna (CA-17)
Representative Dan Kildee (MI-05)
Representative Derek Kilmer (WA-06)
Representative Andy Kim (NJ-03)
Representative Ron Kind (WI-03)
Representative Raja Krishnamoorthi (IL-08)
Representative Conor Lamb (PA-17)
Representative James Langevin (RI-02)
Representative John Larson (CT-01)
Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02)
Representative Al Lawson (FL-05)
Representative Barbara Lee (CA-13)
Representative Susie Lee (NV-03)
Representative Teresa Leger Fernandez (NM-03)
Representative Andy Levin (MI-09)
Representative Mike Levin (CA-49)
Representative Zoe Lofgren (CA-19)
Representative Alan Lowenthal (CA-47)
Representative Elaine Luria (VA-02)
Representative Stephen Lynch (MA-08)
Representative Tom Malinowski (NJ-7)
Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18)
Representative Carolyn Maloney (NY-12)
Representative Kathy Manning (NC-06)
Representative Lucy McBath (GA-06)
Representative Betty McCollum (MN-04)
Representative Don McEachin (VA-04)
Representative James McGovern (MA-02)
Representative Gregory Meeks (NY-05)
Representative Grace Meng (NY-06)
Representative Kweisi Mfume (MD-07)
Representative Gwen Moore (WI-04)
Representative Joe Morelle (NY-25)
Representative Seth Moulton (MA-06)
Representative Frank Mrvan (IN-01)
Representative Joe Neguse (CO-02)
Representative Don Norcross (NJ-01)
Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (NY-14)
Representative Tom O'Halleran (AZ-01)
Representative Ilhan Omar (MN-05)
Representative Frank Pallone (NJ-06)
Representative Jimmy Panetta (CA-20)
Representative Bill Pascrell (NJ-09)
Representative Ed Perlmutter (CO-07)
Representative Dean Phillips (MN-03)
Representative Chellie Pingree (ME-01)
Representative Stacey Plaskett (VI-At Large)
Representative Mark Pocan (WI-02)
Representative Ayanna Pressley (MA-07)
Representative Mike Quigley (IL-05)
Representative Jamie Raskin (MD-08)
Representative Deborah Ross (NC-02)
Representative Raul Ruiz (CA-36)
Representative Dutch Ruppersberger (MD-02)
Representative Tim Ryan (OH-13)
Representative Gregorio Kilili Sablan (CM-At Large)
Representative Linda Sanchez (CA-38)
Representative Mary Gay Scanlon (PA-05)
Representative Janice Schakowsky (IL-09)
Representative Adam Schiff (CA-28)
Representative Brad Schneider (IL-10)
Representative Kim Schrier (WA-08)
Representative Bobby Scott (VA-03)
Representative Brad Sherman (CA-03)
Representative Mikie Sherrill (NJ-11)
Representative Elissa Slotkin (MI-08)
Representative Adam Smith (WA-09)
Representative Darren Soto (FL-09)
Representative Jackie Speier (CA-14)
Representative Melanie Stansbury (NM-01)
Representative Haley Stevens (MI-11)
Representative Thomas Suozzi (NY-03)
Representative Eric Swalwell (CA-15)
Representative Mark Takano (CA-41)
Representative Mike Thompson (CA-05)
Representative Dina Titus (NV-01)
Representative Rashida Tlaib (MI-13)
Representative Paul Tonko (NY-20)
Representative Norma Torres (CA-35)
Representative Ritchie Torres (NY-15)
Representative David Trone (MD-06)
Representative Lauren Underwood (IL-14)
Representative Marc Veasey (TX-33)
Representative Nydia Velazquez (NY-07)
Representative Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23)
Representative Bonnie Watson Coleman (NJ-12)
Representative Jennifer Wexton (VA-10)
Representative Susan Wild (PA-07)
Representative Nikema Williams (GA-05)
Representative Frederica Wilson (FL-24)
Representative John Yarmuth (KY-03)
Representative Darrell Issa (CA-50)
Representative Adam Kinzinger (IL-16)
Representative Robert Aderholt (AL-04)
Representative Rick Allen (GA-12)
Representative Kelly Armstrong (ND-At Large)
Representative Brian Babin (TX-36)
Representative Troy Balderson (OH-12)
Representative Andy Barr (KY-06)
Representative Cliff Bentz (OR-02)
Representative Gus Bilirakis (FL-12)
Representative Kevin Brady (TX-08)
Representative Ken Calvert (CA-42)
Representative James Comer (KY-01)
Representative Dan Crenshaw (TX-02)
Representative Scott DesJarlais (TN-04)
Representative Michelle Fischbach (MN-07)
Representative Matt Gaetz (FL-01)
Representative Tony Gonzales (TX-23)
Representative Anthony Gonzalez (OH-16)
Representative Jenniffer Gonzalez Colon (PR-At Large)
Representative Lance Gooden (TX-5)
Representative Garret Graves (LA-06)
Representative Kevin Hern (OK-01)
Representative Dusty Johnson (SD-At Large)
Representative John Joyce (PA-13)
Representative Dave Joyce (OH-14)
Representative Trent Kelly (MS-01)
Representative Mike Kelly (PA-16)
Representative Young Kim (CA-39)
Representative Doug Lamborn (CO-05)
Representative Bob Latta (OH-05)
Representative Jake LaTurner (KS-02)
Representative Frank Lucas (OK-3)
Representative Nancy Mace (SC-01)
Representative Nicole Malliotakis (NY-11)
Representative Tom McClintock (CA-04)
Representative Patrick McHenry (NC-10)
Representative Alex Mooney (WV-02)
Representative Blake Moore (UT-01)
Representative Greg Murphy (NC-03)
Representative Jay Obernolte (CA-08)
Representative Steven Palazzo (MI-04)
Representative Aumua Amata Radewagen (AS-At Large)
Representative John Rose (TN-06)
Representative David Rouzer (NC-07)
Representative Adrian Smith (NE-03)
Representative Jason Smith (MO-08)
Representative Michael Turner (OH-10)
Representative Fred Upton (MI-06)
Representative David Valadao (CA-21)
Representative Beth Van Duyne (TX-24)
Representative Ann Wagner (MO-02)
Representative Tim Walberg (MI-7)
Family of Congressional Members
Senior White House and agency officials
Congressional staff

Speaking program:

The First Lady
The President




July 12, 202218:32

In-town pool report #9 - dinner lid
We have a dinner lid until 9 p.m.
I'm told POTUS is still on schedule for a 9:30 motorcade to JBA.



July 12, 2022
[APP Note: Report #10 does not exist or was not received by the APP.]


July 12, 2022
[APP Note: Report #11 does not exist or was not received by the APP. There is however a Report #11a below.]


July 12, 202222:27

In-town pool report #11a - motorcade travelers list
The WH passes this along—
Traveling with the President via motorcade en route Joint Base Andrews:

Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President & National Security Advisor
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations
Stephen Goepfert, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the President

Traveling with the President aboard Air Force One en route Ben Gurion Airport, Israel:

Secretary of State Antony Blinken
Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President & National Security Advisor
Ambassador Rufus Gifford, Chief of Protocol, U.S. Department of State
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations
Kate Bedingfield, Assistant to the President & Director of Communications
Karine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press Secretary
Amos Hochstein, Senior Advisor for Energy Security, U.S. Department of State
Anne Nueberger, Deputy National Security Advisor for Cyber and Emerging Technology
Brett McGurk, Deputy Assistant to the President & Coordinator for the Middle East and North Africa
Stephen Goepfert, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the President
Meghan Hays, Special Assistant to the President & Director of Message Planning
Carlyn Reichel, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for Speechwriting & Strategic Initiatives
Travis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director
John Kirby, NSC Coordinator for Strategic Communications
Suzy George, Chief of Staff to the Secretary of State





 
Pool Reports below by Raquel Krähenbühl, Globo News - Brazil 



Sent:
Reports:




July 12, 202210:47

Foreign Pool Report #1 - POTUS bilateral with President López Obrador - Agenda + Background
Good morning!
I'm Raquel Krahenbuhl from TV Globo and it's a pleasure to be your foreign pooler today.
This morning, President Joe Biden will welcome the President of Mexico Andrés Manuel López Obrador (AMLO) to the White House for the second time. This will be their 4th meeting. They met in person for the first time on November 18, 2021, and they had two virtual meetings - on March 1, 2021, and April 29, 2022.
The meeting happens a month after President López Obrador refused President Biden's invitation to participate in the Summit of the Americas because the White House didn't invite the leaders of Cuba, Venezuela, and Nicaragua.
This is just one of the growing list of divergences between the two leaders. They have disagreements on trade, energy, climate change, foreign policy, including the war in Ukraine. On Friday President Obrador said his administration will remain neutral. He refused to join the sanctions against Russia, recently criticized NATO's policy calling it "immoral", and called the U.S. support for Ukraine a "crass error".
Previewing the meeting, NSA Jake Sullivan said the presidents will discuss "their common vision for North America and common efforts to address global challenges, including Russia".
A senior administration official said they "expect to announce joint actions to improve border infrastructure and address irregular migration; enhance law enforcement cooperation to disrupt the flow of fentanyl to both our countries; and promote clean energy, economic innovation, and prosperity".
Asked on Monday about the agenda, President López Obrador said he wants to discuss with President Biden immigration, security, and controlling inflation.
Agenda:
- IMMIGRATION: The Embassy of Mexico said they will discuss "how to deal with root causes/ joint development efforts in the communities of origin". Mexico joined the United States in adopting the Los Angeles Declaration on Migration and Protection, a framework to share responsibility and economic support for countries most impacted by refugee and migration flows. A senior administration official said they "will commit to completing a multi-year joint U.S.-Mexico border infrastructure modernization effort for projects along the 2,000-mile border" and will "launch a bilateral working group on labor migration pathways and worker protections". AMLO has advocated that the U.S. grants more work visas to Mexicans and Central Americans to relieve pressure on its country and he has defended the importance of the Mexican workforce to expand also the U.S. economy.
- INFLATION: AMLO said on Friday that he has a plan to deal with inflation and that he is going to propose it. "We have to look for a way to act together, help each other in controlling inflation". The Mexican Embassy said they will discuss "how to deal with inflation caused by soaring prices of commodities, how to create new regional value chains, and strengthen existing ones". In June inflation in Mexico rose to almost 8%. The pandemic-related effects are one of the causes of the record number of Mexicans crossing the border to the U.S.
- TRADE/ ECONOMIC COOPERATION: The Mexican Embassy said they will discuss "how to strengthen regional trade with USMCA as the main anchor". The United States is Mexico's top trade partner and Mexico is the second biggest trade partner of the U.S. In 2019, the U.S.-Mexico-Canada signed a new free trade agreement. Since then, the U.S. has filed many complaints pushing Mexico to enforce environmental laws. They argue Mexico is violating the agreement with his Fourth Transformation program - a domestic policy that has prioritized state power plants and oil companies over private investment in renewable energy and breaking commitments on climate change.
- SECURITY: A senior administration official said they will also commit to deepen the cooperation to combat transnational criminal organizations that foment violence in both countries. "To that end, we will establish a U.S.-Mexico operational task force under the bilateral Bicentennial Partnership on Security that was launched last October to ensure that we are accelerating our joint efforts to disrupt the flow of fentanyl into our countries". Mexico has increased the crack down of meth and fentanyl labs - the seizures went from six in May to 72 in June.
Background:
AMLO- a left-wing populist who has been a politician for more than three decades- became the president of Mexico in December 2018 - limited to a single six-year term. His first official international trip was to Washington on July 2020 (on a commercial flight) - in the middle of the pandemic - to celebrate the start of the United States-Mexico-Canada trade agreement.
He developed personal chemistry with former President Donald Trump, besides his book -"Oye, Trump"- accusing Trump of racism against Mexicans. President Obrador was one of the last world leaders to recognize President Biden's election victory – along with presidents of Brazil, China, and Russia. AMLO, who himself accused his rivals of election fraud in his defeats in 2006 and 2012, justified it was interventionism to "make any kind of recognition of a government that is not yet legally and legitimately constituted". He recognized Biden's victory after the formal electoral college vote and sent the president elect a two-page letter on December 14. AMLO emphasized that "Mexico and the U.S. can't be distant neighbors with more than 38 million Mexicans living in the U.S. and more than a million Americans in Mexico". They had their first call five days later- on December 19. On January 22 - just one day after Biden's inauguration- they had their first call as presidents. Lopez Obrador was the second foreign leader President Biden spoke with – after the Canadian Prime Minister, Justin Trudeau.



July 12, 202210:53

Correction poor report #2, not 12: Foreign Pool Report #12 - POTUS bilateral with President López Obrador - Arrival
President López Obrador arrived in the White House at 10:48am.
He wasn't welcome by President Biden in the entrance of the West Wing. Instead he was welcomed by the chief of protocol.
He was followed by the Mexican delegation, included the minister of foreign affairs, agriculture, economy, and the commissioner for migration.



July 12, 202213:10

Foreign Pool Report #3 - POTUS bilateral with President López Obrador - Oval meeting + delegations
Pool was in the Oval for about 45 minutes. Many colleagues left the room saying it reminded them of the Trump era.
At 11:26 President Biden welcomed President Obrador saying he sees Mexico "as an equal partner" and that "despite the overhyped headlines" they "sometimes have a strong, productive relationship"
President Lopez Obrador started his remarks at 11:35pm. He spoke in Spanish for more than 30 minutes.
He noted that despite "their differences, and also their grievances that are not really easy to forget with time or with good wishes" , they've been able "to go inside and able to work together as friends and true allies"
He delivered a long remark remembering the history between Mexico and US during Roosevelt administration and proposed something similar to the World War 2.
After speaking for about 15 minutes, he said: "I could summarize everything we've been saying in five basic items of cooperation"
1- "Since the energy crisis started, Mexico has used 72% of its crude and fuel oil exports to the United States refineries 800 thousand barrels a day. Therefore we decided that while we're waiting for the prices to go down in the U.S, we've decided that it was necessary for us to allow Americans who live close to the border to go and get their gasoline on the Mexican side at lower prices."
2- "We are putting at the disposal of your administration over one thousand quilometer of gas pipelines south border with mexico to transport gas from Texas to New Mexico, Arizona and California. A volume that can ...supply about 300 million people"
3- '' Even though the USMCA had made progress to eliminate tariffs,there are still some other that could be immediately suspended... so that we can lower prices for consumers in both our countries."
4- "Start a private-public investment plan between the two countries to produce goods that would strengthen our markets so we can avoid heavy importations from other countries and continents"
5- "Ordering migration flow and allowing arrival in the United States of construction workers, technicians, and professionals of different disciplines , mexicans and central americans, with temporary worker visas to ensure not paralyzing the economy because of the lack of people...It is indispensable for us to regularize now and give certainty to migrants who for years have lived and worked in a very honest manner and who are also contributing to the development of this great nation. I know your adversaries, the conservatives, are going to be screaming all over the place, but without a very bold program, it will not be possible to solve problems... The way out is not through conservatism. The way out is through transformation. We have to be bold in our actions....
AMLO concluded: " From our part, I've acted in good faith and with all transparency because there shouldn't be selfishes between neighbors and friends.. President Biden, we trust you because you respect our sovereignty...We are willing to continue working with you for the benefit of our people. Count on our support and solidarity always. Long live the United States. Long live Mexico"
At 12:06, Biden spoke again, telling AMLO, "you've had a lot of important things to say… I agree that we need to work closer together."
They didn't take questions from the press.
Participating in a bilateral with the President and Andrés Manuel López Obrador, President of the United Mexican States:
U.S. Manifest
The PresidentT.H. Tom Vilsack, Secretary of AgricultureT.H. Gina Raimondo, Secretary of CommerceT.H. Alejandro Mayorkas, Secretary of Homeland SecurityT.H. Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security AffairsT.H. Liz Sherwood-Randall, Assistant to the President for Homeland Security and Deputy National Security AdvisorT.H. Wendy Sherman, Deputy Secretary of StateT.H. Ken Salazar, Ambassador of the United States to MexicoT.H. Juan Gonzalez, Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for the Western Hemisphere, National Security Council
Mexico Manifest
H.E. Andrés Manuel López Obrador, President of the United Mexican StatesH.E. Marcelo Ebrard Casaubon, Secretary of Foreign AffairsH.E. Tatiana Clouthier Carrillo, Secretary of EconomyH.E. Víctor Manuel Villalobos Arámbula, Secretary of Agriculture and Rural DevelopmentMr. Roberto Velasco Álvarez, Chief Officer for North America




  