
    "For some people, he announced, your taxes are going to stay the same. In Washington, that means you lowered taxes. So, your taxes are going to be the same. And then for others—for job creators and small businesses—he announced a massive tax increase. So, at the very time the American people are seeing fewer jobs created than we need, the President announces he's going to make it harder for jobs to be created. I just don't think this President understands how our economy works." — Mitt Romney
Remarks At Town Hall
Grand Junction, Colorado
July 10, 2012
Click Here To Listen To Mitt Romney On Why President Obama Doesn't Understand How Our Economy Works
MITT ROMNEY: "And so I'm here to talk to you about the course for the country and what lies ahead for America. I know that last week the middle class of America got a kick in the gut when the jobs numbers came out. We found out we'd created only 80,000 jobs. Our nation needs to create about double that if we're going to keep up with the population growth of our nation and so we're falling further behind under this presidency and that's one reason why we're going to change him and get someone in there who'll get this economy going.
"But, this week, the President added insult to injury with another kick in the gut by announcing that he has a plan, he said, to lower taxes. Now we were all excited when we heard that. But you got to be careful: when people in Washington say they're lowering taxes, hold on to your wallet, because, in fact, he didn't lower taxes for anybody. For some people, he announced, your taxes are going to stay the same. In Washington, that means you lowered taxes. So, your taxes are going to be the same. And then for others—for job creators and small businesses—he announced a massive tax increase. So, at the very time the American people are seeing fewer jobs created than we need, the President announces he's going to make it harder for jobs to be created. I just don't think this President understands how our economy works."
  