
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate seven individuals to serve as members of his administration.
The President intends to nominate William D. Montgomery to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. He has served as Charge d'Affairs with designated Chief of Mission status in Belgrade since re-establishing embassy operations there in October 2000. He served as Ambassador to Croatia from 1997 to 2000 and to Bulgaria from 1993 to 1996. His earlier overseas missions include service as Deputy Chief of Mission in Sofia and Dar-es-Salaam, Political and Commercial Officer in Moscow and Economic and Commercial Officer in Belgrade. Originally from Pennsylvania, Montgomery is a graduate of Bucknell University and earned a M. B. A. from George Washington University.
The President intends to nominate Clifford G. Bond to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Bosnia and Herzegovina. He is presently the Acting Principal Deputy to the Special Advisor for the New Independent States. Immediately proceeding this assignment, he served as Director of the Office of Caucasus and Central Asian Affairs at the Department of State. His past overseas posts include service as Minister-Counselor for Economic Affairs in Moscow, Counselor for Political and Economic Affairs in Prague and Economic Officer in Stockholm. In the early 1990's Bond served as Special Assistant to Ambassador Robert Barry, Coordinator for the Support for East European Democracy program in the Office of the Deputy Secretary of State. Originally from New Jersey, he is a graduate of Georgetown University and earned a Master's degree from the London School of Economics.
The President intends to nominate Mario P. Fiori to be Assistant Secretary of the Army for Installations and Environment. He is the founder and President of Compass Associates, a consulting firm specializing in safety performance at industrial facilities. From 1993 to 1997, he was the Manager of the Department of Energy's Savannah River Operations Office, and from 1991 to 1993 he served as the Department of Energy's Departmental Representative to the Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board. Fiori served in the U.S. Navy from 1963 to 1989, retiring as Commander of the Naval Underwater Systems Center. He is a graduate of the U.S. Naval Academy and received an MS and Ph.D. from MIT.
The President intends to nominate Mary E. Peters to be Administrator of the Federal Highway Administration. She has served with the Arizona Department of Transportation in a variety of positions since 1988, and has been Director of the Department since 1998. She has also served as Deputy Director of the Department, Deputy Director for Administration, Contract Administrator and Contract Manager. Peters has served as a member of numerous civic organizations and is a graduate of the University of Phoenix.
The President intends to nominate Mauricio J. Tamargo to be Chairman of the Federal Claims Settlement Commission of the United States at the Department of Justice for a term of three years. He is currently the Staff Director for the Subcommittee on International Economic Policy and Trade as well as Chief of Staff and Legal Counsel for Congresswoman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen. He previously served as Staff Director for the Subcommittee on Africa and as the Congresswoman's Press Secretary and Legislative Director. Originally from Miami, he is a graduate of the University of Miami and received his J.D. from Samford University Law School.
The President intends to nominate Charles Curie to be Administrator of the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration. He is presently the Deputy Secretary for Mental Health and Substance Abuse Services at the Pennsylvania Department of Public Welfare. From 1990 to 1995, he was the Director of Risk Management Services for Henry S. Lehr, Inc., and from 1988 to 1990 he served as President and CEO of the Helen H. Stevens Community Mental Health Center in Carlisle, Pennsylvania. Curie is a graduate of Huntington College and received a Master's degree from the University of Chicago School of Social Service Administration.
The President intends to nominate William Baxter to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Tennessee Valley Authority for the remainder of a nine-year term expiring on May 18, 2002, and for an additional nine-year term expiring on May 18, 2011. Baxter was Commissioner of the Tennessee Department of Economic and Community Development after being appointed by Governor Don Sundquist in 1997. In 1999 Tennessee was chosen for the first time as "State of the Year" for its economic development accomplishments. He is chairman of Holston Gases, Inc., headquartered in Knoxville, Tennessee. He is a graduate of Duke University and the University of Tennessee Law School.
  