
    ARLINGTON, VA -- Today, in an interview with ABC's Charlie Gibson, Barack Obama once again demonstrated that his words on Jerusalem really don't matter. When asked about his direct statement that Jerusalem "must remain undivided" and his subsequent backtracking, Barack Obama said, "I conceded that the wording was poor." Unfortunately, for Barack Obama, poor wording has consequences in foreign policy and it is still not what he said to AIPAC: 
BARACK OBAMA: "I Conceded That The Wording Was Poor"...
Tonight, Barack Obama Said "I Conceded That The Wording Was Poor" When He Stated Jerusalem Should Be The "Undivided" Capital Of Israel. ABC's Charlie Gibson: "And then there's the issue of Jerusalem. You've said in the speech, to AIPAC, Jerusalem will remain the capital of Israel. And it must remain undivided. When you said that did you not realize the significance that that has for so many people in this region?" Barack Obama: "Well, number one, the fact is that Jerusalem is Israel's capital. And so I was simply saying a fact, with respect to..." Gibson: "You said 'must remain undivided,' those are code words." Obama: "Well the issue of it being undivided, I have said and I said immediately after the speech that that word was poorly chosen, that what I was referring to is making sure that we're not setting up barbed wire across Israel..." Gibson: "But Senator, it was a very simple, declarative statement. It must remain, and you started the paragraph by saying, 'Let me be clear.'" Obama: "Charlie, the day after, or the day of making the speech I conceded that the wording was poor, and it's immediately corrected." Gibson: "Rookie mistake?" Obama: "Well I wouldn't say rookie mistake, I think that veterans make mistakes as well." (ABC's "World News Tonight," 7/23/08)
• Watch Barack Obama 
WORDS MATTER: ABC's Charlie Gibson Repeatedly Presses Barack Obama On His Rather Clear Words
ABC's Charlie Gibson: "When You Said That Did You Not Realize The Significance That That Has For So Many People In The Region?" Gibson: "And then there's the issue of Jerusalem. You've said in the speech, to AIPAC, Jerusalem will remain the capital of Israel. And it must remain undivided. When you said that did you not realize the significance that that has for so many people in this region?" Barack Obama: "Well, number one, the fact is that Jerusalem is Israel's capital. And so I was simply saying a fact, with respect to ..." (ABC's "World News Tonight," 7/23/08) 
ABC's Charlie Gibson: "Those Are Code Words." Gibson: "You said 'must remain undivided,' those are code words." Obama: "Well the issue of it being undivided, I have said and I said immediately after the speech that that word was poorly chosen, that what I was referring to is making sure that we're not setting up barbed wire across Israel..." (ABC's "World News Tonight," 7/23/08) 
ABC's Charlie Gibson: "It Was A Very Simple, Declarative Statement ... You Started The Paragraph By Saying, 'Let Me Be Clear.'" Gibson: "But Senator, it was a very simple, declarative statement. It must remain, and you started the paragraph by saying, 'Let me be clear.'" Obama: "Charlie, the day after, or the day of making the speech I conceded that the wording was poor, and it's immediately corrected." (ABC's "World News Tonight," 7/23/08) 
ABC's Charlie Gibson: "Rookie Mistake?" Gibson: "Rookie mistake?" Obama: "Well I wouldn't say rookie mistake, I think that veterans make mistakes as well." (ABC's "World News Tonight," 7/23/08) 
WORDS MATTER: After Saying At The Annual AIPAC Policy Conference In June 2008 That Jerusalem Should Be "Undivided," Barack Obama Has Since Backtracked
At The Annual AIPAC Policy Conference, Barack Obama Says Clearly That Jerusalem Should Be The "Undivided" Capital Of Israel. Obama: "Jerusalem will remain the capital of Israel, and it must remain undivided." (Sen. Barack Obama, Remarks At The Annual AIPAC Policy Conference, Arlington, VA, 6/4/08)
• One Day After The AIPAC Conference, Barack Obama Said The Future Of Jerusalem Would Have To Be Negotiated By Israel And The Palestinians. CNN's Candy Crowley:"I want to ask you about something you said in AIPAC yesterday. You said that Jerusalem must remain undivided. Do Palestinians have no claim to Jerusalem in the future?" Obama: "Well, obviously, it's going to be up to the parties to negotiate a range of these issues."(CNN's "The Situation Room," 6/5/08)
• "Facing Criticism From Palestinians, Sen. Barack Obama Acknowledged Today That The Status Of Jerusalem Will Need To Be Negotiated In Future Peace Talks, Amending A Statement Earlier In The Week That Jerusalem 'Must Remain Undivided.'" (Glenn Kessler, "Obama Clarifies Remarks On Jerusalem," The Washington Post's "The Trail" Blog, www.washingtonpost.com , 6/5/08) 
WORDS MATTER: Barack Obama Actually Has A Record Of Saying Jerusalem Should Be "Undivided"
In An American Jewish Committee Election Questionnaire, Barack Obama Said "Jerusalem Will Remain Israel's Capital, And No One Should Want Or Expect It To Be Re-Divided." "The United States cannot dictate the terms of a final status agreement. We should support the parties as they negotiate these difficult issues, but they will have to reach agreements that they can live with. In general terms, clearly Israel must emerge in a final status agreement with secure borders. Jerusalem will remain Israel's capital, and no one should want or expect it to be re-divided." ("Barack Obama Responses," American Jewish Committee, http://www.ajc.org/site/c.ijITI2PHKoG/b.3878133/, Accessed 7/22/08) 
In A 2000 Position Paper, Barack Obama Stated That "Jerusalem Should Remain United And Should Be Recognized As Israel's Capital." "Third, he addressed the issue in 2000 in a position paper on Israel as part of his unsuccessful congressional campaign that year. In that paper, he stated, 'Jerusalem should remain united and should be recognized as Israel's capital.'" (Rick Richman, "Obama's Redivided Jerusalem," New York Sun, 7/16/08)
  