
    "[M]ichael Moore and Hillary Clinton want to make our [health care] system like the systems nobody goes to …"
-Mayor Rudy Giuliani, "The Sean Hannity Show," 7/12/07
MICHAEL MOORE WANTS GOVERNMENT-RUN HEALTH CARE
Moore: "So For Me To Have To Sit Here And Listen Again To More Crap About Socialized Medicine Or How The Canadians Have It Worse Than Us And All This … We're The Only Ones That Don't Have It Free And Universal." (CNN's "The Situation Room," 7/9/07)
"Moore Wants Universal Health Care Run By The Government." (John Podhoretz, "Reverend Mike," Weekly Standard, 7/9/07)
"The Film Also Is A Paean To Government-Run Systems That Offer, In Moore's Words, 'Free Medical Care For Everyone.'" (Richard Wolf, "Moore's One-Sided View Tells Some Truths," USA Today, 6/22/07)
… AND SO DOES HILLARY CLINTON
Clinton Said Single Payer System Can Be Done "A Variety Of Ways." Clinton: "Well, I want to make clear that there is a difference between having a health care system that provides quality, affordable health care to every American, and having a national health care system where there's only one source of care and the government runs it. That is what's called a single payer system. And the single payer system can be done a variety of ways." (ABC's "Good Morning America," 3/26/07)
Sen. Clinton, On Paying For Her Big Government Health Plan: "That's Going To Mean Taking Money Away From People Who Make Out Really Well Right Now." "[Clinton] said that the failure of her proposal for universal coverage in 1994 made her more determined to achieve the goal now. 'It also makes me understand what we are up against,' Mrs. Clinton said. 'We have to modernize and reform the way we deliver health care. But we have to change the way we finance it. That's going to mean taking money away from people who make out really well right now.'" (Robert Pear, "Candidates Outline Ideas For Universal Health Care," The New York Times, 3/25/07)
"It's Unclear Why Mrs. Clinton Feels A Washington-Based Solution Is Necessary." (Editorial, "Hillary-Care II," The New York Sun, 5/25/07)
BUT WE KNOW THAT'S JUST CODE FOR SOCIALIZED MEDICINE
"Delve Into The Details, However, And It Becomes Clear That, 13 Years After Her Health Care Plan Failed, Mrs. Clinton Hasn't Lost Her Instinct For Socialized Medicine." (Editorial, "Hillary-Care II," The New York Sun, 5/25/07)
Everyone Is Automatically Enrolled Under National Health Care. "The [Democratic] candidates compete with one another over whose plan is more 'universal,' but nobody ever explains how you 'require' someone to purchase health insurance. This is one of the many virtues of a straight-up socialized-medicine scheme. If we had national health care, you wouldn't have to enroll in a plan. You'd automatically be enrolled …" (Timothy Noah, "Edwardscare: A Trojan Horse," Slate, 7/6/07)
SICKO? YOU WILL BE IF WE FOLLOW CLINTON/MOORE PLAN
National Health Care Systems Are Prone To Long Lines, High Tax Burdens. "In Canada, even the anti-privatization Canadian Health Coalition laments long lines. In France and Britain, the tax burden is 42% and 27% respectively, as opposed to 12% in the USA, according to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. In Cuba, equipment and drugs are scarce." (Richard Wolf, "Moore's One-Sided View Tells Some Truths," USA Today, 6/22/07)
In Manitoba, Canada, The Average Wait Time For "Emergency & Urgent" Heart Surgery Is Five Days. (Manitoba Health Website, http://www.gov.mb.ca/health/waitlist/surgical/heart.html, Accessed 7/10/07)
Even The Canadian Supreme Court Has Recognized That "There Is Unchallenged Evidence That In Some Serious Cases, Patients Die As A Result Of Waiting Lists For Public Health Care." (Jacques Chaoulli, "A Seismic Shift," CATO Institute, 5/8/06)
In England, Patients Will Be Forced To Choose Between Life-Saving Cancer Drugs, Or Coverage Provided Under National Health Service. "The Health Service may not be able to afford the next generation of cancer drugs, senior doctors have warned. Specialists fear that the NHS will be 'crippled' by the increasing range of breakthrough treatments. Some believe that private health insurance is the only way to fund the most expensive drugs. Their concerns raise the prospect of cancer patients spending thousands to have a chance of survival. Furthermore, if patients pay for their own drugs, many NHS trusts refuse to cover the cost of care." (Daniel Martin, "Cancer Drug Costs 'Will Cripple NHS'," [London] Daily Mail, 5/14/07)
One In Eight People In England Have Had To Wait More Than A Year To Get Treated For Non-Emergency Procedures. "One person in eight who is admitted to hospital for non-emergency procedure in Britain has to wait more than a year before being treated. Britain's health minister, Andy Burnham, said the NHS should be 'very proud' that only 48 percent had to wait longer than 18 weeks between being referred by a doctor to the start of their treatment because this was an increase from 35 percent." (Nic Fleming, "Hospitals With A Year-Long Waiting List," The Telegraph, 6/9/07)
National Health Care Systems Have Had To Turn To Private Sector To Reduce Costs. "Over the course of the past decade almost every European country with a national health care system has introduced market-oriented reforms and turned to the private sector to reduce health costs and increase the value, availability, and effectiveness of treatments." (John C. Goodman, "Health Care in a Free Society: Rebutting the Myths of National Health Insurance," CATO Policy Analysis
  