
    "Our success depends on a coalition of strong and independent nations that embrace their sovereignty to promote security, prosperity, and peace for themselves and for the world. -President Donald J. Trump
ENHANCING OUR STRONG PARTNERSHIP: President Donald J. Trump is expanding our critical security and economic partnership with Mongolia.

President Trump was pleased to welcome President Battulga of Mongolia for a bilateral meeting at the White House today.
This visit presents a vital opportunity to enhance the already strong United States–Mongolia relationship.

The United States supported Mongolia's establishment of a free democratic society after renouncing communism in 1990, creating a foundation of goodwill that remains today.


President Trump and President Battulga are engaging on a range of issues, including defense and security, trade and investment, and sovereignty and rule of law.

We are working closely with Mongolia to deepen our security ties and promote a healthy economic relationship between our two countries.


The United States and Mongolia have agreed that their relationship has reached the level of a "strategic partnership."

STRENGTHENING SECURITY COOPERATION: Mongolia is an important security partner and is working with us to sustain a free and open Indo-Pacific region.

Mongolia and the United States share a dynamic security relationship and together we are building an even closer partnership for the future.
Mongolian troops stood side-by-side with American forces in Iraq and Afghanistan.

Mongolia has pledged to commit troops in Afghanistan through at least 2021.


Mongolia has been supportive of our sanctions on North Korea and our negotiation efforts.
Through its "Third Neighbor Policy" Mongolia looks to maintain close ties to democratic partners like the United States, Japan, and South Korea.
The United States enjoys a strong diplomatic information sharing relationship with the government of Mongolia.
Mongolia has been an important host for multinational peacekeeping and security exercises.

EXPANDING ECONOMIC OPPORTUNITIES: The United States is working closely with Mongolia to bolster economic opportunities and increase bilateral trade.

In 2018, the United States had a $111 million trade surplus with Mongolia, reflecting the significant importance of the country as an export market for American goods such as automobiles and heavy machinery.
We are urging Mongolia to fully implement the 2017 transparency agreement between our two countries, which will help improve Mongolia's business and investment climate.
The United States is working with Mongolia to improve opportunities for investment, invest in infrastructure, and enhance education.

The United States Agency for International Development (USAID) is working to help increase transparency and provide greater access to finance in Mongolia.
In 2018, Mongolia signed a $350 million compact with the Millennium Challenge Corporation that aims to improve water supply infrastructure in Mongolia's capital.
The Peace Corps has volunteers working in 21 provinces in Mongolia to provide health education and English language instruction, and plans to increase its presence.



  