
    
  "I think [Trump's comments were a] huge error on his part and, number one, it's wrong. ... Border security is the real issue here. It's not painting with this broad brush that, obviously, I think Donald Trump, painted with, where he tried to say, you know, Mexicans are bad people..." — Governor Rick Perry
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5oinmxaW_IM

"Your World"
Fox News
July 2, 2015
Click Here To Watch
CHARLES PAYNE, FOX NEWS: "You're talking big tent, you're talking inclusion. You were also asked today about Donald Trump, some of the comments he made and the way he's entered the GOP race. One thing that is undeniable is that he has made an amazing splash, rocketing up in the polls and resonating with a lot of GOP voters. What is he doing wrong in your opinion?"
GOVERNOR RICK PERRY: "Well I don't think he's reflecting the Republican Party with his statements about Mexicans. I think that was huge error on his part and, number one, it's wrong. When I think about the Hispanic in Texas, and I think about the individuals who have paid a great price, whether were Tejanos at the Alamo in 1836 or whether it's been as late as the last wars that we've had with Hispanics being killed for America."
PAYNE: "But with all due respect, he didn't talk about people who were here legally, Mexican or otherwise, he was saying that Mexico itself—"
GOV. PERRY: "But I would suggest to you he painted with a very broad brush, and I think that's the problem. Yes, we have some challenges. Nobody knows that border better than I do. Nobody has stepped into the fray on that border the way that I have—"
PAYNE: "But are they sending bad people over here? Listen, I guess that's the point, because let's face it, he is resonating. I'll give you this, corporate America is dumping him like crazy. Macy's, NBC, they're all lining up. Even the City of New York. To a certain degree that may reflect the greater electorate and also it's just galvanizing and making Donald Trump a legendary figure within your party because he is standing up, he's not a politician and he's not afraid. What would a career politician like you say to that?"
GOV. PERRY: "What I would say is that we want somebody who's actually dealt with this before, not somebody that's just going to shoot from the hip. I will suggest to you I know how to secure the border, and the border security is the real issue here. It's not painting with this broad brush that, obviously, I think Donald Trump, painted with, where he tried to say, you know, Mexicans are bad people, they're rapists and murderers. Yes, there are bad people that cross the border but how about let's get a Commander in Chief that knows how to secure the border, and at that particular time we can have a conversation about how to deal with this immigration issue, but not until that border is secure."
PAYNE: "In the meantime, were these companies right to dump Donald Trump?"
GOV. PERRY: "Listen, that's their call. My way to address this is to talk about the contributions that the Mexican-American has made to this country. Knowing that they are the number one trading partner for the State of Texas, knowing that Mexico is going to play an incredibly important role economically in the future of North America with the energy resources that they have. Canada, the United States and Mexico, you put those energy resources together you lower that corporate tax rate, you lower the electricity prices, bring back manufacturers in this country and this region can explode economically, and that's what we ought to be focused on."
Click Here To Watch
  