
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Kevin Madden (857) 288-6390
Boston, MA – Today, Governor Mitt Romney announced that former Congressman Bob Beauprez (R-CO) has endorsed his candidacy for President of the United States. Congressman Beauprez will advise the campaign and help communicate Governor Romney's message of conservative change in Washington. He will travel to Iowa tomorrow to campaign for Governor Romney.
"Congressman Beauprez has had a distinguished career serving his community, his state and his nation. He has never stopped working to ensure that future generations would find a Colorado better than it is today. He will be a powerful surrogate for our message of strengthening the American people through lower taxes, less government regulation and stronger national defense," said Governor Romney.
Joining Romney for President and preparing to travel to Iowa, Congressman Beauprez said, "To change Washington, we need to elect a President who can take Washington apart and put it back together. Governor Romney is not a Washington insider, but has a record built in the private sector and in public service. He is the right candidate to lead America forward."
Background On Congressman Bob Beauprez:
Congressman Beauprez Is A Former Member Of Congress, Community Banker And Dairy Farmer. Before serving in Congress, Congressman Beauprez was a successful farmer and businessman. For over 20 years, he built Beauprez Holsteins into an internationally recognized company. After selling the dairy herd in 1990, he managed the development of the former farm and created an award winning golf course community, Indian Peaks, that transformed his small hometown of Lafayette. At the same time, Beauprez purchased and saved a failing community bank, and as President and CEO of Heritage Bank, he partnered with thousands of small businesses and families and grew the bank's assets from $4 million to over $400 million. In 1997, he entered politics as Chairman of the Boulder Country Republicans and in 1999, was elected Chairman of the Colorado Republican Party. In 2002, he was elected to the U.S. House of Representatives from the 7th Congressional District. In 2006, Congressman Beauprez was the Republican nominee for Governor of Colorado. Today, he lives in Indian Peaks and operates a new web site and e-magazine called A Line Of Sight, which advocates common-sense solutions to our country's policy issues. He also serves as President of the newly formed Rocky Mountain Community Foundation.
  