
    The administration has used the DPA more than 30 times to combat the coronavirus. 
President Trump continues to leverage a historic public-private partnership to combat the coronavirus pandemic—an effort made stronger by the announcement today that Kodak will begin producing critical pharmaceutical ingredients at its New York facilities under the Defense Production Act (DPA).
This is just the latest example of the Trump Administration's use of the Defense Production Act to drive supply chains back to the United States after decades of reliance on foreign manufacturing—and bring American jobs back with them. The President has invoked the Defense Production Act more than 30 times, helping secure critical supplies of ventilators, personal protective equipment, testing supplies, and more.
That hasn't stopped Biden from spreading disinformation and pretending President Trump is refusing to use the Defense Production Act—a straight up lie. Biden claimed he had been calling for the Defense Production Act "for weeks" before the president. The reality? "Biden's statement came just minutes after Trump first said he would invoke the DPA," according to fact checkers.
It's not the only lie about the coronavirus Biden has been caught in. Biden claims he wrote the "playbook" to combat pandemics, but Biden's real record is a shortage of masks, a botched vaccine rollout, and a halt in testing.When the President took action to save American jobs, Biden tried to undermine the success of the Paycheck Protection Program. Biden even lied about "warning" the country about the virus.
Never forget: Joe Biden spent his entire career pursuing bad trade deals that drove American manufacturing overseas and bled American supply chains dry—and President Trump is cleaning up his mess. Thanks to the leadership of the Trump Administration, the United States currently leads the world in coronavirus testing and the development of a vaccine is proceeding at record speed. Amid an unprecedented global pandemic, President Trump is making sure we have the resources we need to combat the virus at home.
  