
    "If we enact the president's broad agenda—if MAGAnomics is allowed to work—we will have set the stage for the greatest revival of the American economy since the early 1980s. It will remind people—including those who have forgotten, or those who don't want you to remember—what a great America means. That is driving everything we do."
Introducing MAGAnomics
By Mick Mulvaney
Wall Street Journal
July 13, 2017
If the Trump administration has one overarching goal, it's to Make America Great Again. But what does this mean? It means we are promoting MAGAnomics—and that means sustained 3% economic growth.
For most of our nation's modern history, a healthy American economy meant one that grew at roughly 3.5%. That was the average growth rate between the late 1940s and 2007. Since then, it has hardly topped 2%.
The difference between those two growth rates is staggering. If the American economy had grown at only 2% between the end of World War II and 2000, average household income would have been roughly $26,000 instead of $50,000.
Over the next 10 years, 3% growth instead of 2% will yield a nominal gross domestic product that is $16 trillion larger, federal government revenues $2.9 trillion greater, and wages and salaries of American workers $7 trillion higher.
For merely suggesting that we can get back to that level, the administration has been criticized as unrealistic. That's fine with us. We heard the same pessimism 40 years ago, when the country was mired in "stagflation" and "malaise." But Ronald Reagan dared to challenge that thinking and steered us to a boom that many people thought unachievable. In the 7½ years following the end of the recession in 1982, real GDP grew at an annual rate of 4.4%. That is what a recovery looks like, and what the American economy is still capable of achieving.
The focus of MAGAnomics is simple: Grow the economy and with it the wealth of, and opportunity for, all Americans.
...
MAGAnomics is for everyone, but especially for those who left for work this morning in the dark but came home after their kids were asleep. It's for those who are working part-time but praying for a full-time job. It's for folks whose savings are as exhausted as they are. This president hears you. He knows America's greatness doesn't spring from higher taxes or unnecessary regulations or broken welfare programs. It doesn't come from government at all. It comes from you.
If we enact the president's broad agenda—if MAGAnomics is allowed to work—we will have set the stage for the greatest revival of the American economy since the early 1980s. It will remind people—including those who have forgotten, or those who don't want you to remember—what a great America means. That is driving everything we do.
Read the full op-ed here.
  