
    As long as terrorists and their allies plot to harm America, America is at war. We did not choose this war. Yet, with the safety of the American people at stake, we will continue to wage this war with all our might.
From the beginning, we have known the effort would be long and difficult, and that our resolve would be tested. We know that sacrifice is unavoidable. We have seen victories in the decisive defeat of two terror regimes, and in the relentless pursuit of a global terror network. Yet the war on terror goes on. We will not be distracted, and we will prevail.
President George W. Bush, July 1, 2003
Defeat of Two Terror Regimes
Operation Enduring Freedom in Afghanistan:

Eliminated the repressive Taliban regime;
and Denied al-Qaida safe-haven from which to plan, train, and conduct operations.

Operation Iraqi Freedom:

Ended a regime that possessed weapons of mass destruction, harbored and supported terrorists, suppressed human rights and defied the just demands of the United Nations and the world;
Stopped Ansar al-Islam, an al-Qaida affiliate, from operating in northeastern Iraq;
Eliminated from Iraq the Abu Musab al-Zarqawi network, which had established a poison and explosives training camp in northeastern Iraq; and
Shut down the Salman Pak training camp where members of al-Qaida had trained.

Pursuit of Global Terror Network
Since September 2001, over 3,000 al-Qaida suspects have been detained in over 90 countries.

Almost all of those directly involved in orchestrating the September 11th attacks are now in custody or confirmed dead.
Of the senior al-Qaida leaders, operational managers, and key facilitators we have been tracking, 65 percent have been captured or killed.

In the global war on terrorism, the United States and its allies have:

Denied al-Qaida its sanctuary in Afghanistan;
Removed the Taliban regime which supported and provided sanctuary to al-Qaida;
Disrupted al-Qaida's finances;
Dismantled entire al-Qaida cells throughout the world; and
Captured or killed many of al-Qaida's top leaders from the 9/11 period, including:

9/11 mastermind Khalid Shaykh Muhammad and key plotters Ramzi bin al Shibh, Abu Zubaydah and Muhammad Atef;
USS Cole attack planner Walid Ba'Attash; and
Abu Yasir al-Jaz'iri, top al-Qaida facilitator.



Singapore, Malaysia, Indonesia, the Philippines, and Hong Kong have all been strong partners in the War on Terrorism, arresting dozens of terrorist leaders with al-Qaida ties.
Pakistan has taken into custody more than 500 terrorist suspects, including Ramzi bin al Shibh and Khalid Shaykh Mohammad.
The U.S. is working closely with the Afghan and Pakistani governments to deny sanctuary to terrorists moving into and among their border areas.
The United Kingdom along with Spain, Italy, Germany, France and other European nations have disrupted al-Qaida cells.
Many Middle East and North Africa nations have sought and arrested al-Qaida members.

Yemen has taken action against numerous al-Qaida members. It was in Yemen that al-Harithi was found and killed.
Jordan arrested two individuals with links to al-Qaida who were responsible for the murder of USAID employee Laurence Foley in Amman.
Saudi Arabian authorities have uncovered terrorist operations in the holy city of Mecca.

Saudi Arabian security services captured Abu Bakr al-Azdi, who is believed to be a central figure in the Riyadh bombing of May 12, 2003.
Security services also killed a major al-Qaida operational planner and fundraiser, known as "Swift Sword".


Morocco arrested al-Qaida operatives planning attacks against U.S. shipping.
Djibouti is hosting the U.S. military as they pursue al-Qaida and others in the Horn of Africa.

Since 9/11, the U.S. and other countries have frozen over $137 million, much of which was supporting al-Qaida operations.
We have developed partnerships with both Canada and Mexico to stop illicit border crossings and facilitate legitimate trade and travel.
In the United States, al-Qaida associated cells were dismantled in Buffalo, New York, and Portland, Oregon and arrested individuals charged with supporting the Egyptian-based Al-Gamat Al-Islamiyya.
Terrorist Tracking and Threat Integration
To improve intelligence sharing and coordination, the President directed the establishment of the Terrorist Threat Integration Center (TTIC), whose partner agencies include CIA, FBI, DHS, DOD, and State.
The FBI established the National Joint Terrorism Task Force and we have expanded FBI-led interagency Joint Terrorism Task Forces investigating terrorist activity around the country to 66.
The Attorney General established the Foreign Terrorist Tracking Task Force to identify and locate terrorists.
The State Department has developed tamper-resistant visas and new digital passports.
  