
    My fellow Americans, you have a choice, you deserve better. Because America deserves better. The well connected in Washington are standing behind Hillary Clinton because Hillary Clinton is one of them. They want more of the same. Donald Trump is standing with the American people.
Donald Trump knows that there's a better way forward and we believe as Republicans, we believe in an America where everyone can get the education and training that they need to succeed in college, in career and in life. Where Washington deepen dependency but rather helps create genuine opportunity. Why? Because America deserves better. [applause]
We believe in a country where people can achieve, maintain and enjoy their piece of the American dream without government standing in the way. Why? Because America deserves better. We believe in a country where we take the threat of terrorism seriously. We name if for what it is, you know the words, radical Islamic terrorism, and we do everything in our power to eliminate it, to ensure our safety. Why? Because America deserves better.
We believe in a country where there is a solemn responsibility to deliver to our troops the support and tools that they need to achieve absolute victory and then provide them with the healthcare and the respect that they've earned when they return home. Let's thank our veterans. [applause]
Why? Why? Because America deserves better. And while we're at it, and while we're at it, we believe in a country that those who honorably serve in law enforcement, the people that put their lives on the line for us each and everyday are just not respected they are revered. [applause]
Why? Because America deserves better. We believe in a country where power is taken back from Washington and returned home to state and local governments where it is more effective, more efficient and more accountable to the people. Why? Because America deserves better. We believe in a country where freedom and personal success do not come from the clumsy hands of government rather from the dignity that comes from hard work. Why? Because in America deserves better.
The simple truth is liberal Washington insiders created our problems. And Hillary Clinton is the ultimate liberal Washington insider. If she were anymore on the inside, she'd be in prison. [applause]
America deserves better than Hillary Clinton. And that ladies and gentlemen is why we need to support Donald Trump and Mike Pence to be the next President and Vice President of the United States. [applause]
Now last August, last August right here in Cleveland, I stood on this stage and I said that any of the Republicans running for office would be better than Hillary Clinton. I meant it then, and I mean it now. So let me be clear, a vote for anyone other than Donald Trump in November is a vote for Hillary Clinton. [applause]
Make no mistake, make no mistake, we can't wait four years to get 'em next time. The consequences are too great. Literally, just an hour ago while waiting to come out here on stage, I was on the phone with Donald Trump and this very subject came up. Think about it, the Supreme Court, he and I talked about the Court, he raised that as a concern and we talked about the fact that Ronald Reagan nominated Justice Scalia over 30 years ago to be on the court when I was in high school. We cannot concede the court to liberals like Hillary Clinton for the next 30 years. [applause]
The consequences are too great. After hearing the FBI director's report a few weeks ago, heck I listened to that and said I wouldn't even give Hillary Clinton the password to my Iphone, let alone access to highly classified information. [applause]
This isn't just another Clinton scandal. Hillary's scandal put our national security at risk and that ladies and gentlemen, makes Hillary Clinton unfit to be President of the United States. [applause]
It is time to tell Hillary enough is enough, no more double standards for the Clintons. [applause]
Why? Because America deserves better. And thankfully, thankfully Republicans are offering a better way forward. It's working right here in Ohio. And it's working in places like Florida and New Mexico and North Carolina and South Carolina. Heck, it's even working in places like Massachusetts and Maryland, that's because Republican leadership works. I know, I know, because I see it first hand, as it's working every single day in Wisconsin. You see, in 2010, we were tired of high unemployment, budget deficits, stifling taxes and rising college tuition. Most of all we were tired of the big government union bosses running our state and local governments. We had enough. So we did something about it. We took the power from the hands of the big government special interests and returned it firmly into the hands of the hard working tax payers. You remember, in turn, the big government union bosses and their cronies in Washington helped organize more than 100,000 protesters who occupied our state capitol.
They tried to intimidate us with threats and mobs, but we didn't back down and we won. They spent tens of millions of dollars trying to defeat us in a recall election, but we didn't back down and we won. Three times, three times, they came at us, three times we won. We won because our common sense reforms worked. Today more people are employed in Wisconsin than ever before. Our budget is balanced and responsible. Taxes are down for working families and seniors and college tuition in the first time ever is frozen three years in a row.
If conservative reforms can work, in a blue state like mine, they can work anywhere in the country. [applause]
You see, you see, it wasn't too late for Wisconsin and it's not too late for America. If you've had enough of Washington's brokenness, of Washington's wastefulness, of Washington's empty promises and of Washington's arrogance, I invite you hear and across America to join us, help us elect Republicans to office from the courthouse, to the statehouse, to the White House. America you have a choice. You decide, you deserve better, why, because America deserves better. Why? Because America deserves better. Why? Because America deserves better. God Bless you, thank you. And God bless our next President and Vice President. [applause]
  