
    Dear Herb:
I have your letter of July 1, and though I have known of your plans for some time, it is nevertheless with reluctance and the deepest personal sense of regret that I accept your resignation as Chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers, effective on a date to be determined.
With your departure, I am losing an immensely valued economic adviser who has served this Administration with unqualified dedication, and who for nearly three years has guided the Council with great distinction as its Chairman. It has been a period of exceptional challenge but also unusual opportunity for economic policy, and I believe we have accomplished much in relation to the size of the problems which have confronted us. Your participation in the crucial decisions during this time has clearly left its imprint on our economic policies and, I am confident, it will leave a favorable mark on the Nation's economic history.
Through your regular reports, I have been kept well informed about the economy, and the analyses you and the Council have provided me have given valuable insights into complex economic issues. I have especially admired the skill, clarity and substance with which you have been able to carry out the difficult but essential responsibility of explaining the economy and our policies to the public. I know your many friends and colleagues throughout government join me in saying your sound counsel and experienced leadership on economic matters will be greatly missed.
As you assume your new position at the University of Virginia, I welcome this opportunity to express not only my appreciation for your outstanding contributions to the well-being of our Nation, but also my thanks for the loyalty and dedication you have given me personally. This has meant a great deal. You may be certain we will take advantage of your proximity to call upon your talents in the future. In the meantime, Pat joins me in extending to Mildred and you our heartfelt good wishes for every success and happiness in the years ahead.
Sincerely,
RICHARD NIXON
  