
    Pool Reports by Sebastian Smith, Agence France-Presse 



Sent:
Reports:




July 13, 202311:56 EEST

Travel pool report 1 - gather
Good morning from Helsinki, where pool has been swept and Covid tested ahead of joining the motorcade.
This is the last day of a trip that began Sunday night in London, followed by the two NATO summit days in Vilnius. Of note, President Biden is making the first US presidential visit since Donald Trump met Vladmir Putin here five years ago. Among the changes since then, of course, is Finland dropping its historic military non-alignment to become NATO's newest member earlier this year.
For reference, here is the guidance – all times local
1:00 PM THE PRESIDENT participates in a bilateral meeting with President Sauli Niinistö of the Republic of Finland Presidential Palace, Helsinki, Finland Out-of-Town Pool Spray
2:00 PM THE PRESIDENT participates in a family photo with Nordic Leaders Presidential Palace, Helsinki, Finland Out-of-Town Pool
2:15 PM THE PRESIDENT participates in the U.S.-Nordic Leaders' Summit Presidential Palace, Helsinki, Finland Out-of-Town Pool Spray
5:30 PM THE PRESIDENT holds a joint press conference with President Sauli Niinistö of the Republic of Finland Presidential Palace, Helsinki, Finland Open Press
7:40 PM THE PRESIDENT departs Helsinki, Finland en route to Washington, DC Helsinki-Vantaa International Airport, Helsinki, Finland Out-of-Town Pool
EDT
7:55 PM In-Town Pool Call Time
9:25 PM THE PRESIDENT departs Joint Base Andrews en route to the White House Joint Base Andrews Out-of-Town Pool
9:35 PM THE PRESIDENT arrives at the White House South Lawn Open Press (Gather 9:25 PM – Palm Room Doors)


July 13, 2023 12:57 EEST

Travel pool report 2 - rolling
At 12:54 pm the motorcade was rolling from the RON en route to the presidential palace for the bilat with President Sauli Niinisto.
Pool was not able to see POTUS enter the Beast.


July 13, 2023 13:08 EEST

Travel pool report 3 - palace arrival
At 1:04 pm the motorcade arrived at the presidential palace. All along the route through Helsinki there were knots of locals filming on their cellphones. Once we got to the train station area the crowds swelled to thick lines stretching hundreds of yards all along the sidewalks. A few people had little US flags. Security was extremely tight with police standing on almost every corner and traffic entirely cleared.


July 13, 2023 13:17 EEST

Travel pool report 4 - bilat starts
At 1:14 pm pool entered a room known as the Salon Room. POTUS and President Niinisto and aides sat at a table with a white table cloth.
Pool will send quotes after.
The White House sends these details on greeters and travelers
Greeting the President upon arrival at the Presidential Palace of Finland:
Sauli Niinistö, President of the Republic of Finland
Traveling with the President via motorcade en route to the Presidential Palace of Finland:
Douglas Hickey, Ambassador of the United States to the Republic of Finland Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs Jen O'Malley Dillon, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations Karine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press Secretary Ben LaBolt, Assistant to the President & Director of Communications Ambassador Rufus Gifford, Chief of Protocol of the United States Curtis Ried, Deputy Assistant to the President & NSC Chief of Staff & Executive Secretary Ashley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office Operations Amanda Sloat, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for Europe, National Security Council Carlyn Reichel, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for Speechwriting & Strategic Initiatives, National Security Council Travis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director Emilie Simons, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Press Secretary Ariana Berengaut, Senior Advisor to the National Security Advisor Charlie Fromstein, Director for Visits and Diplomatic Affairs, National Security Council Andrew Johnson, Director for European Union Affairs, National Security Council Dereck Hogan, Acting Assistant Secretary of State for European and Eurasian Affairs 


July 13, 2023 13:36 EEST

Travel pool report 5 - bilat quotes, details
The delegations (see manifest below) sat opposite each other at the long table and the two presidents had an introductory exchange. Here are the main quotes - please check against the transcript.
Niinisto:
Cited "a new era in our security"
Told Biden it was "Very impressive to experience the way you created unity (in Vilnius)"
"I guess you got the best welcomes already from the streets of Helsinki , which are crowded."
Biden:
"It's a delight to be here. It's my second visit."
(Referring to Finland's request to enter NATO) "It took me about three seconds to say yes"
"The fastest ratification that occurred in modern history"
"An incredible asset to NATO"
"Same value set"
"I've been doing this a long time. I don't think NATO's ever been stronger."
"Together we're standing for shared democratic values"
Niinisto:
"We have to stick together"
Pool asked two questions: whether peace in Ukraine is possible while Putin remains in power and about the hacking of US government emails. The president did not answer and we were ushered out.
From the White House:
The President is participating in a bilateral meeting with President Sauli Niinistö of the Republic of Finland:
U.S. Manifest The President T.H. Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs T.H. Douglas Hickey, Ambassador of the United States to the Republic of Finland T.H. Karine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President and Press Secretary T.H. Amanda Sloat, Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for Europe, National Security Council
Finland Manifest His Excellency Sauli Niinistö, President of the Republic of Finland Mr. Petteri Orpo, Prime Minister of the Republic of Finland Dr. Hiski Haukkala, Secretary General, Chief of the Cabinet to the President Mr. Mikko Hautala, Ambassador of the Republic of Finland Dr. Petri Hakkarainen, Director of Foreign and Security Policy to the President 


July 13, 2023 14:21 EEST

Travel pool report 6 - family photo
At 2:17 pm the Nordic leaders and POTUS entered a small but ornate room - "the Gothic Hall" - featuring a high ceiling, a dome, an internal balcony, a large chandelier, columns, tall arched windows, an elaborate frieze, painted heraldic shields, and a Persian-style carpet on a polished parquet floor. The leaders stood in front of their national flags.
This was a photo op and the leaders did not talk. Next event will be the summit start where each leader is set to make brief remarks.
The White House provides this list:
Attendees Sauli Niinistö, President of the Republic of Finland Jonas Gahr Støre, Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Norway Mette Frederiksen, Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Denmark Ulf Kristersson, Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Sweden Katrín Jakobsdóttir, Prime Minister of the Republic of Iceland 


July 13, 2023 15:01 EEST

Travel pool report 7 - summit remarks
At 2:20 pm pool entered a room -- the "Hall of Mirrors" -- that was just as ornate as the other one, only much bigger. The leaders were seated at an U-shaped table with POTUS and Niinisto seated at the end, with the other leaders along the long sections. Aides sat at small tables around the edges of the room, along with impressively stocked tables of snacks including and not limited to coffee pots, sugar in silver bowls, and rows of cakes.
At the beginning of the event, the Finnish president quipped that "if the whole world would be like the Nordics, we would not have that many problems." Biden responded, "It's also important to say that the Nordics are always in good shape." Chuckling, the Finnish president said, "It's even better." POTUS then spoke for about a minute, saying "it's good to be back." He said the Nordic nations and the US "share common challenges." Each of the leaders then spoke briefly.
At 2:29 pm the pool was sent out. We are now holding. I will send full quotes in a moment.


July 13, 2023 15:27 EEST

Travel pool report 8 - summit opening fuller quotes
Each leader made brief remarks at the start of the summit, but they did not make news. Here are the quotes of President Biden. Pease check against transcript. The room made for a lot of echoes and poor sound quality.
Meanwhile, pool is holding ahead of POTUS' last public event of the Europe trip – his 2+2 press conference with President Niinisto.
Opening quip:
Finnish President NIINISTO:
Began by welcoming "Mr president, dear Joe."
"We have understood and heard you referring many times on discussions, so, by you and President Obama, and saying that if the whole world would be like Nordics, we wouldn't have that any problems."
POTUS:
"If we left the important decisions to the Nordics we'd all be in good shape."
POTUS remarks:
"It's good to be back in Finland with all of you and Barak wasn't very far off" (referring to the initial quip).
"We just finished a historic NATO Summit -- I think it was historic -- where we welcomed Finland's accession to NATO and reached an agreement to move forward on Sweden's membership in NATO. And it was a reminder that the nations around the table not only share common history, but we share common challenges. And I would add presumptuously, common values. And you know, the vision for the world that we all share -- and I think it's very similar vision -- is one that's more free, more secure, and opportunities made available for all, because we know that when other countries do well particularly, those countries that are struggling – we all do better. We all do better. And we're working in lockstep on to tackle climate crisis in which you've been leaders on for a long time, and in order to literally preserve our planet. It's the only existential threat humanity faces and we don't have a lot of time, but I'm confident if we continue to work together, we can deal with it. And we're pioneering the next generation of technologies and that's going to power everyone's economies. And I think we have to, we have to continue to remain very close on coordinating because it can be a great, great advantage for humanity, but it could also cause some great difficulties in artificial intelligence and, and other things if we don't cooperate and know what is going on. And together, we're standing with the brave people of Ukraine, as they defend themselves against Russia's brutal assault. So today, I look forward to discussing these and many other issues and generally. It's an honor to be with you all. It's an honor to be with you."


July 13, 2023 17:29 EEST

Travel pool report 9 - press conference about to start
At 5:27 pm delegations came in the room so it appears to be starting very soon although no formal two minute warning as of now. The press conference by presidents Biden and Niinisto will be streamed in all the usual places.


July 13, 2023 17:37 EEST

Travel pool report 10 - "shortly"
At 5:36 pm a Finnish official said presser will start "shortly"


July 13, 2023 17:39 EEST

Travel pool report 11 - presser starts
The two presidents took the podium at 5:38 pm


July 13, 2023 18:05 EEST

Travel pool report 12 - presser ends
The press conference wrapped up at 6:03 pm and pool is exiting to the motorcade 


July 13, 2023 18:16 EEST

Travel pool report 13 - rolling
At 6:15 pm motorcade is rolling to airport. Pool did not manage to see POTUS board the Beast


July 13, 2023 18:36 EEST

Travel pool report 14 - AF1
Motorcade arrived by AF1 at 6:35 pm. The drive through Helsinki featured similar large crowds on the sidewalks. Others thronged on a hillock overlooking the highway leading out of town. Also featured: a mobile billboard reading "Jesus Saves. President Biden welcome to Finland."


July 13, 2023 19:17 EEST

Travel pool report 15 - airport and boarding
On arrival, POTUS spent about 30 minutes chatting and shaking hands with dozens of embassy staff and families gathered behind a metal barrier on the tarmac near AF1. Pool was not able to hear what was being said but the president talked animatedly and joined in selfies.
He then walked across to the plane, shadowed by the Beast, its doors held open by agents.
Along the way he stopped again, this time to chat with advance staff who helped arrange the trip.
Finally, he arrived at the red carpet where he said goodbye to the following (per White House):
Ambassador Douglas Hickey, U.S. Ambassador to the Republic of Finland Dawn Ross, Spouse of the Ambassador to the Republic of Finland Dr. Hiski Haukkala, Secretary General, Chief of the Cabinet to the President of the Republic of Finland Ambassador Mikko Hautala, Finnish Ambassador to the United States Mika Koskinen, Chief of Protocol of the Republic of Finland Lieutenant Colonel Ville Hukkanen, Second Aide-de-Camp to the President of the Republic of Finland
The president then went to the lower stairs without turning to see or take questions from the pool. About half way up he appeared to stumble very slightly but kept walking on up. He turned to wave to the staff out on the tarmac and went in.
We are wheels up for JBA shortly. 


July 13, 2023 19:25 EEST

Travel pool report 16 - wheels up
AF1 was wheels up at 7:24 pm. We're told flight time is 8:35 minutes.
Per White House:
Traveling with the President aboard Air Force One en route to Joint Base Andrews:
Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs Jen O'Malley Dillon, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations Karine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press Secretary Ben LaBolt, Assistant to the President & Director of Communications Stefanie Feldman, Assistant to the President & Staff Secretary Ryan Montoya, Assistant to the President & Director of Scheduling & Advance Ambassador Rufus Gifford, Chief of Protocol of the United States Curtis Ried, Deputy Assistant to the President & NSC Chief of Staff & Executive Secretary Ashley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office Operations Amanda Sloat, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for Europe, National Security Council Carlyn Reichel, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for Speechwriting & Strategic Initiatives, National Security Council Araz Pourmorad, Special Assistant to the President & Director of Presidential Scheduling Travis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director Ariana Berengaut, Senior Advisor to the National Security Advisor Charlie Fromstein, Director for Visits and Diplomatic Affairs, National Security Council 


July 13, 2023 20:15 EDT

Travel pool report 17 - wheels down
At 8:13 pm Air Force One was wheels down at JBA. Smooth flight, giant burgers, no visitors to cabin.


July 13, 2023 20:37 EDT

Travel pool report 18 - Marine One
POTUS disembarked from AF1 at 8:24 pm. He came down the lower steps wearing khaki pants and a tucked-in black polo shirt with sneakers. He did not come over to the pool before walking to Marine One. He lifted at 8:31 pm.
Signing off after this history filled trip with thanks to my great fellow poolers, especially super helpful co-pooler, the sterling Andrew Restuccia of the WSJ.
Handed over to in-town pool.
Per White House:
Traveling with the President aboard Marine One en route to the White House:
Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs Jen O'Malley Dillon, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations Karine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press Secretary 




Pool Report below by Courtney Rozen, Bloomberg Government 



Sent:
Reports:




July 13, 202320:52 EDT

In-Town Pool Report #1
Hello from your in-town print pooler.
Marine One landed on the South Lawn of the White House at 8:40 p.m.
President Biden walked off the helicopter at 8:43 p.m. He was wearing khakis and sneakers. He waved at the press and took no questions. He entered the White House at 8:44 p.m.
Travel/photo lid called at 8:51 p.m. 



  