
    Pool Reports by Linda Feldmann, The Christian Science Monitor



Sent:
Reports:




July 4, 202006:23

In-town pool report 1 - south lawn scene "Salute to America" 
Happy July 4th from the South Lawn, where it is 88 degrees and sunny.
Live feed of Salute to America can be found here:https://www.pscp.tv/w/1YqxoRPkYXzJv
Pool and pre-credentialed press were led out to the South Lawn at 5:45 pm to patriotic music performed by the US Air Force Band, followed by the President's Own Marine Band and the US Navy Band Sea Chanters.
Invited guests include health care workers, military, law enforcement, and their families. Guests are seated at circular tables with white table cloths and flowers. Red, white, and blue bunting drapes the balconies on the South Portico of WH.
Military flyovers are due to begin soon. POTUS tweeted earlier that he will speak at 7 pm. Fireworks are supposed to start around 9 pm.
Sighted: WH trade adviser Peter Navarro, campaign spokesman Hogan Gidley.
No covid tests for pool today.



July 4, 202018:26

In-town pool report 2 - more on Salute to America 
from Deputy White House press secretary Judd Deere:
The guests will be made up of front line workers and their families, including law enforcement, doctors, nurses, and others, as well as members of the military and their families. There will be members of the administration in attendance.
As President Trump has said, this year's Independence Day celebration will have a different look than 2019 to ensure the health and safety of those attending. The American people have shown tremendous courage and spirit, particularly our amazing frontline workers, in the fight against this global pandemic just as our forefathers did in the fight to secure our independence, and both deserve celebration on America's birthday this year.



July 4, 202018:53

In-town pool report 3 - POTUS begins remarks 
At 6:28p, Interior Secretary David Bernhardt made remarks. He called the president's speech last night "unifying and inspiring."
At 6:41 Potus and FLOTUS emerged onto the lower balcony of the South Portico as the band played Hail to the Chief. They walked down the center of the South Lawn, which was clear of guests, and took the stage.
Someone from the guest area shouted "four more years!"
At 6:45, Air Force One flew by overhead. Then US Army US Golden Knights Parachute Team performed three maneuvers - a mass formation, then a side-by-side formation, then a "drop flag." National Anthem was played during that last maneuver.
POTUS began remarks at 6:50 pm. Remarks can be seen on TV.
Guests are mostly not wearing masks, though some are.



July 4, 202019:22

In-town pool report 4 - potus remarks, flyovers begin 
Some POTUS quotes (check transcript):
“We will never allow an angry mob to tear down our statues or erase our history.”
On the virus: “We've made a lot of progress. Our strategy is moving along well…. We have the finest testing in the world.”
“With respect to remedies, we are now doing unbelievably well.”
“We will likely have a therapeutic or vaccine solution long before the end of the year.”
“No matter our race, color, religion, or creed, we are one America, and we put America first. We will not allow anyone to divide our citizens by race or background. We will not allow them to foment hate, discord, or distrust.”Accused the media of false accusations of racism. "When you level these false charges, you not only slander me ... you also slander generations of heroes who gave their lives to America... The more you lie, the more you try to divide, the more we will try to tell the truth, and we will win. The more you lie .. the more credibility you lose."
"We want great jobs, and we want to be respected by the rest of the world, and not taken advantage of by the rest of the world."
"The more bitter you become, the more we will appeal to love and patriotism."
Referenced executive order of yesterday to create the National Garden of American Heroes, featuring statues of "the greatest Americans who have ever lived." Wants to start with a man who was "very unfairly untreated" -George Washington, then Thomas Jefferson, Betsy Ross, Alexander Hamilton, Benjamin Franklin, John Adams, James Madison, Dolley Madison, Frederick Douglass, Abraham Lincoln, Harriet Tubman, Harriet Beecher Stowe, Joshua Lawrence Chamberlain, Clara Barton, Daniel Boone, Davy Crockett, Henry Clay, Susan B. Anthony, Booker T. Washington, the Wright brothers, Amelia Earhart, Jackie Robinson, George S. Patton, Gen. Douglas MacArthur, Audie Murphy, Billy Graham, Martin Luther King, Ronald Reagan, Christa McAuliffe, Antonin Scalia.
Says we'll have a committee to pick names... Notes that the family of David Dorn, fallen retired police officer, is here, to extended applause from the audience.
Announces that we're about to see aircraft from all the military conflicts of the last 75 years - WWII, Korea, Vietnam, Operation Desert Storm ("that was a quick one'). Mentions killings of Al Baghdadi and Suleimani, and effort to rebuild the military.
"We are Americans, and we never back down, and we never give in, and we never give up."
"Next year will be one of the greatest years we've ever had."
"Now, let the flyovers begin."Remarks ended at 7:20 pm.Rob Reider, air show announcer, then begins narration of flyovers.



July 4, 202020:02

In-town pool report 5 - air show 
POTUS and FLOTUS stood side by side, their backs to the audience, as they viewed the air show. FLOTUS sat at times. A slight breeze blew the 11 American flags standing to their right.
POTUS is wearing dark suit, white shirt, red tie. FLOTUS is wearing white sleeveless dress with wide reddish-brown belt and white flats.
Some nice stagecraft, as when the band played "Ride of the Valkyries" by Richard Wagner as planes (eg Douglas Invader) and helicopters (eg Hueys) flew over. Also: Blackhawk and Apache helicopters, Eagles, Ospreys. Coast Guard Sikorsky Jayhawk and MH65 Dolphin, B1B bomber, B-2 Spirit, the "flying wing," F-22 Raptors, F-35 Lighting II.
"That, ladies and gentlemen, is the sound of freedom," Reider said as the B1B flew by.
Blue Angels and Thunderbirds flew over at 7:51.
President's Own Marine Band played and US Navy Band Sea Chanters sang "America the Beautiful." POTUS and FLOTUS faced the White House as flag bearers came down the central area of the South Lawn carrying the flags of each state.
At 7:55 pm, the Blue Angels and Thunderbirds flew directly over the White House in formation. Very cool.
Audience was invited to join in singing "God Bless America." Color guard marched out to "Stars and Stripes Forever." POTUS and FLOTUS walked down the steps from the stage and walked up the center of the lawn as band kept playing. At the top of the lawn, they stopped and smiled to the crowd, then turned and walked into the South Portico lower entrance at 7:59 pm.
Next song: "Proud to Be an American."



July 4, 202021:10

In-town pool report 6 - fireworks begin 
After a respite inside the WH, pool is as brought back out to South Lawn a bit before 9 pm for fireworks.
At 9:03 Potus and FLOTUS came out onto upper balcony of south portico to watch the show. First number: the “1812 Overture” by Tchaikovsky. Fireworks began about 9:05.



July 4, 202021:27

In-town pool report 7 - fireworks end 
Fireworks went off right at the Washington Monument, in perfect view of the South Lawn. Other fireworks went off to the west. The band played a nice sound track, including “We are Family,” bluesy version of “America,” “Stars and Stripes Forever,” “Proud to be an American.”
At 9:23, during “Proud to be an American,” pool was led back inside WH. Potus and FLOTUS still stood on balcony as we walked by.



July 4, 202021:31

In town pool report 7a - correction 
Subject line on pool report 7 is wrong- fireworks haven't ended yet! Apologies.



July 4, 202021:50

In town pool report 8 - travel/photo lid 
Travel/photo lid called at 9:49 pm.
Fireworks ended at 9:42 pm, based on TV viewing inside briefing room.
Happy Fourth!




  