
    TALLAHASSEE, Fla.- Governor DeSantis joined the Megyn Kelly Show in what she called "the most robust exchange he's had since he declared his presidency." Read the highlights below.
Watch the full interview HERE.
On Kamala Harris' lies about Florida's education standards:
Well, the White House has been obsessed with us in Florida from the time they took office. Clearly, they view us as a threat, and so [they do] anything that they can do to try to be noticed. But I think in this case, people looked at it, and they think, because she was lying, and she was demagoguing it. I mean, this stuff was bedded. This was all public. People can do comments, everyone was praising what a thorough job they did, then all of a sudden, they cherry pick something, take it out of context, and then try to demagogue it. Because if you look at the entire standards, there is no way you can view those standards and not come to any other conclusion that they are very, very honest about the injustice of slavery. That is time and time again, you see through that. I think the thing that is instructive though, is you have Harris doing this in Biden's White House. Corporate media, you know, [are] they are really truth tellers, if they are not holding the powerful accountable? They would have pushed back on this. They would have said, wait a minute, that is such a big one, we have had Dr. Alan on to shoot it down. And instead, they try to concoct the narrative even further and push it. So, I think people like Harris do it because they know they can get away with it with a lot of our corporate press.
On Bidenomics:
Well, first of all, what what's the root of the high prices? The root is government. This is a government-induced inflation crisis starting in March of 2020, with the $2 trillion CARES Act, the FED printing money. December 20 had $2.2 trillion out the door for Biden when he came in. Biden did [the] American Rescue Plan, another &2 trillion. When you borrow, print, and spend trillions and trillions of dollars like that, you are going to get inflation. Milton Friedman said, 18 months after this happened, you're going to get it. And then you had the Federal Reserve. Not only did they print all this money, they said, 'Oh it's transitory. Don't worry about the inflation.' It started going. So now they've been jacking up interest rates because they got behind the ball. So now the average person...can't afford a new home. If you make the median income compared to the median home price with the interest rate early on, it does not work financially. It's harder to afford a car and of course, daily expenses like groceries. We have to rein in Congress's spending, which has caused this.
On combatting Biden's border crisis:
Day one I will declare it a national emergency. I'll mobilize all resources, including the military, to go over and stop the invasion. We're not going to entertain the bogus asylum claims. We are going to actually build a wall, because I do think that's important. But we're going to have both Border Patrol and the military authorized to use deadly force against the Mexican drug cartels who are infiltrating our country. I was actually down there and there were some weathered pieces of a wall there. I go, and it's big steel beams, and these guys are working on it with you - and they're like, 'well, the cartels cut through the wall and then they bring in drugs. And basically, Biden just lets it happen.' So for us what I've said [is], if you're doing that and you've got a backpack full of fentanyl on and you're trying to scurry in, it's going to be the last thing you do. You are going to end up stone cold dead, because I'm going to let our folks do their job. If you just do that a few times, you are going to see a major, major change. But here's the thing. Tens of thousands of people are dying in our country because of fentanyl overdose. You can't go to a community in this country without running into a mother who's lost a child, and we're just supposed to just shrug our shoulders and let that happen? We're going to lean in against the cartels in ways that other presidents have not been able to do. That is going to make an impact, but we cannot allow this poison to just keep coming into our country and killing our young people.
On bringing energy to the executive:
They used to kind of serve in their prime and then pass the baton to the next generation. I think this generation has not really been as willing to do that. One of the reasons I'm running in comparison to Biden, my God, we need energy in the executive. We need some vigor and vitality. And when I go in on day one... we will spit nails starting January 20th, 2025. It will be day, after day, after day. We are going to have all the executive orders written before we take office, all the legislation we want will be done. We will have thousands of appointees to send to the Senate for confirmation. We are not going to miss a beat. We are going to take advantage of every opportunity, but you got to be vigorous, you got to have energy to be able to do that. I think the American people are ready to say, okay, let's try the next generation.
  