
    THE PRESIDENT. This morning we have the great honor and pleasure, in the United States, of welcoming to our country a great friend and one of the world's foremost leaders, Chancellor Helmut Schmidt, his wife, accompanied by Foreign Minister Genscher and distinguished leaders from industrial and labor and the cultural component parts of the society of the Federal Republic of Germany. We are very grateful that they've honored us by coming.
This friendship that exists between the United States and the Federal Republic has existed from the very day the Federal Republic was formed.
I've come to know Helmut Schmidt first of all at a distance, as a candidate and a new President, because of the admiration expressed by other leaders who've known him and worked with him over the years. Following my Inauguration, I had a chance to talk with him several times by phone and exchange diplomatic messages. And I've always welcomed his advice and his counsel and his friendship.
In London, recently, at the summit meeting with himself and me and five other leaders. we had a chance to exchange ideas and concepts and hopes and plans and aspirations for the future that vividly demonstrated to all of us that the ties that have been so strong between us and the people of Germany are still as strong as ever, and that our future is tied closely together.
I have a great admiration for him. The international questions determine our own attitudes toward other countries, and there are no differences between us. We have frank discussions, as is the nature of Helmut Schmidt. He's an accomplished economist, a very fine political leader, and an experienced and enlightened statesman.
The great progress that has been made in the Federal Republic of Germany has made it possible for him to demonstrate in many ways the restrained and enlightened and very effective leadership that is inherent in his own character and capabilities.
We're very proud that we share with the Federal Republic of Germany a complete commitment to democratic processes, a complete commitment for a hope of world peace, the alleviation of tensions, and the enhancement of the quality of life of those whose people are not so fortunate as those who live in our two countries.
We recognize that progress is only possible with joint efforts and that the private and public support between allies is always a crucial element of continued strength and beneficent influence.
And so this morning, my good friend, Helmut Schmidt, on behalf of more than 200 million Americans. we welcome you to our country with open arms and deep appreciation for what you and your leadership have meant to us and will mean to us and the world in the months ahead.
Thank you very much for coming. You are welcome, friend.
THE CHANCELLOR. Mr. President, Mrs. Carter, ladies and gentlemen:Thank you. Mr. President. very much for this cordial reception and the friendly words of welcome which you have extended to me and the members of my party.
I have been visiting the White House several times in different capacities, but this is my first visit to the 39th President of the United States of America.
I've been looking forward to this meeting very much, because with it we are deepening an acquaintance and a mutual understanding which we were able to renew and to develop, as you mentioned, sir, in London. We shall be continuing discussions which got off to a favorable and constructive start at the summit conference.
Speaking from this spot about a year ago, I was able to pay tribute to the proud history of your great nation. and to recall its achievements in the span of two centuries. Today my thoughts turn to that which lies ahead of us.
Let us together tackle our common problems with determination and with mutual understanding. Our two nations and two countries are joined in very strong bonds of friendship. And I would like to underline what you just said, Mr. President: This friendship has steadily been developed since the Federal Republic of Germany was constituted three decades ago, and it has never been closer than today.
As partners in the North Atlantic Alliance and among the industrialized nations, both our countries have a responsibility to carry in a world of growing interdependence. The security of our countries is indivisible, and you Americans can count on us to keep on making our full contribution towards maintaining it.
We shall continue our efforts to overcome existing tensions and to strive for peace and to strive for cooperation in all parts of the world, particularly in the European continent.
We do act on the basis of common beliefs which we have reaffirmed in the past few months. We can state with satisfaction that these meetings have emitted a message of confidence which has had a beneficial effect on the economic development of our two countries, in particular, and also on that of the international community.
We are at one in our determination to maintain peace, to enhance freedom and human dignity in a democratic order, to enhance free trade and economic cooperation, and to serve the well-being of our peoples. The identity of our ideals and of our interests gives strength to our alliance.
Mr. President, I'm looking forward to our talks and to our working together.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much.
  