
    APPROXIMATELY a year ago, I urged our nation's schools to strengthen activities that contribute to the physical development of our youth. Specifically, I asked them to adopt programs which were based on the concepts developed by the Council on Youth fitness. The results of pilot projects and recent surveys covering all our schools-public, private and parochial--have just been reported to me.
These pilot projects and surveys indicate that, at best, one-fourth of our 40 million school children cannot pass even a simple screening test of physical performance. This test is not difficult. It calls for only minimum acceptable levels of strength, flexibility and agility. The Council also recommended the use of comprehensive tests which measure a broader range of physical achievement. The pilot projects and surveys indicate almost half our children cannot reach satisfactory levels in all items of tests of this type.
These statistics are frightening, but it is through this testing activity that the schools proved the value of professional leadership in organized daily programs emphasizing physical fitness.
When the screening test was administered in schools which previously had no organized program, 46 percent of the students failed. This figure compares to only 25 'percent failure in schools which previously carried on organized programs of physical education. At the end of the school year the rate of failures was reduced to 11 percent in those schools having no previous programs and only 5 percent in the schools with programs. Similar contrasts were apparent in the results of the more comprehensive tests.
While these figures should be of great concern to us all, they do offer encouragement. The remarkable difference in the rates of failure between schools which previously had programs and those which did not, and the rapid improvement in all schools, clearly indicates the value of daily vigorous activity. These surveys also revealed that testing for physical fitness increased by 24 percent, and the number of schools offering some type of physical fitness program increased by 13 percent.
This is strong evidence that the threat to the strength of young America can be overcome. Yet, the shocking fact remains that at least 60 percent of our children do not participate in a daily program of vigorous physical activity. This conclusively shows how much remains to be done, and this is the critical time of the year. School administrators and teachers are now making their plans. I urge them to implement programs that contribute to the health and well-being of all our girls and boys. I urge school boards, parents and all citizens to support their efforts.
I am aware that many of the governors and chief state school officers share my concern, and have taken positive action that already has produced significant results in their states. This is gratifying to me, as President and as a parent. I am most hopeful everyone will make this a matter of high priority. The progress of the past school year should encourage us all to assure our children the benefits of physical development as well as intellectual growth.
  