
    Q. Mr. President, can I ask you a few questions?
THE PRESIDENT. All right.
Q. What are your thoughts, Mr. President, about the ticket? What about the ticket? Did you watch last night on television and see the convention?
THE PRESIDENT. No, I didn't watch it. But I think they have got a very good ticket. I called Governor Reagan this morning when he woke up and congratulated him on his nomination. I told him I was sure that the convention would go along with his recommendation for Vice President. I pointed out that it would be good for us both if we could have a series of debates around different sections of the country, I think at least three or four, and let our views be expressed clearly to the American people. And he said that sounded like a good idea to him. I sent him an official telegram of congratulations. And I think the ticket they've chosen will be formidable, but I'm confident and look forward to the election in November.
Q. Mr. President, do you think it's an easier ticket to beat than would Reagan/ Ford have been?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't know. I have mixed emotions about it. That's a choice for the Republicans to make. But I would like to debate—[inaudible].
Q. Let me ask you about your brother, Billy, Mr. President. Do you feel that it was proper for him to have taken all that money from the Libyan Government?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I'm not going to comment on that part of it. I think it was a regrettable thing that happened. As you know, Billy leads a life of his own. I didn't know about it. He conducted those activities privately. I just hope that he doesn't get hurt too badly, that's all.
Q. Did you talk to him again today?
THE PRESIDENT. No, except that a few days ago, I recommended to him to go ahead and make a complete revelation of what had been done—[inaudible]. And he thought it over for awhile, and he decided to do that. But I did not—[inaudible].
Q. You didn't know about the money that he had received?
THE PRESIDENT. No, not at all.
Q. Mr. President, it looks like a tough combination to beat, a moderate and a conservative.
THE PRESIDENT. I think we can handle them okay.
Q. Thank you, Mr. President.
  