
    Memorandum for the Heads of Executive Departments and AgenciesSubject: Review of Federal Plan Requirements for Domestic Assistance
Planning is a vital part of making any decision. State and local governments, however, have become plagued by too much of a good thing. The Federal requirements for State, regional, and local plans are unnecessarily numerous, and often overlap each other or conflict with local programs. The result is that everyone is overburdened by paperwork, and the original thrust of many of these plans is lost in the shuffle.
Accordingly, I am ordering a zerobased review of all Federal requirements that State and local governments submit plans when asking for assistance. All requirements, except for those established by Federal statute, should be abolished, combined with other plans or required only on a multi-year, rather than an annual basis. The requirement should remain in cases where 1) a compelling need is demonstrated, and 2) where the requirements reflect the wishes of top elected officials.
I have designated OMB to help each department carry out its review, with the goal of submitting final recommendations to me by November 30. I have also asked the White House intergovernmental staff to assist with the project.
As much as possible, each department should open its review to public participation. I also urge you to confer with Congress about eliminating any plan requirements established by statute which you do not believe are necessary.
I consider this an important part of our effort to make the government more efficient and productive. To ensure that it is successful, I request that you designate a high-level staff person to coordinate the review and to serve on an interdepartmental task force. This committee will examine any possible overlapping in the remaining plan requirements. OMB will be in charge.
I hope for prompt results from this effort. Specifically, I expect the number and complexity of planning requirements for Federal aid to be sharply reduced. Moreover, I want you to make a continuing effort to assure that no requirements are established unless they are essential to meet the responsibilities of government.
JIMMY CARTER
  