
    The Rudy Giuliani Presidential Committee today announced endorsements in Southwest Iowa led by Southwest Regional Chair Loren Knauss, Pottawattamie County Supervisor. Also joining the team are the campaign's Montgomery County Co-Chair Dennis Bloom and Edward Martin, former Decatur City Mayor.
"I know from experience that Rudy Giuliani is the proven leader we need as our next President. It is a privilege to work for Rudy in Southwest Iowa helping to communicate his optimistic message of fiscal discipline, lower taxes, and commitment to keeping Americans safe. These issues are important to our communities," said Knauss, a veteran local law enforcement officer.
"Rudy is committed to winning the Iowa Caucuses, and we are aggressively building our ground organization across the state," said Giuliani's National Political Director Mark Campbell. "This team will help us build support throughout Southwest Iowa. We are glad to have them on board."
About the Southwest Iowa Endorsements:
Pottawattamie County Chair Loren Knauss, Southwest Iowa Regional Chair
Knauss currently serves as a Pottawattamie County Supervisor. He was first elected to office in November 2002 and is serving his second term. Knauss' career in law enforcement began in 1991 as a reserve deputy with the Pottawattamie County Sheriff's Office. Prior to becoming a police officer with the Council Bluffs Police Department in 1996, Knauss served as a correction officer with the Pottawattamie County. He has been a volunteer with the Loess Hills Chapter of the American Red Cross since 1991, serving on their disaster services team. He helped in the response to the September 11, 2001 terrorists attacks in New York City and post-Hurricane Katrina recovery in Louisiana.
Dennis Bloom, Montgomery County Co-Chair
Bloom was the Montgomery County Attorney for 12 years. He is currently a co-owner and vice-president of Red Oak Greenhouses.
Edward Martin, Former Mayor of Decatur City
Martin is the former Mayor of Decatur City and currently retired. He served in the Army for 21 years.
  