
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

The enduring friendship between the American and Canadian peoples is based on our similar aspirations for liberty, justice, individual rights, and democratic values. Our governments differ in form but embody these same principles. Bound by a common vision of the future, the United States and Canada are working together to fulfill international responsibilities in the defense of freedom and lasting peace throughout the world.
Our friendship is reflected as well in our extensive trade with each other. Canada and the United States are each other's most important trading partners. We also have the world's largest bilateral trading relationship, and the recently signed Free Trade Agreement, when implemented, will increase prosperity in both our countries and further strengthen the close ties we enjoy.
July 2 and 3 are an especially good time to commemorate the unique relationship between Americans and Canadians, because these two days fall between beloved holidays-Canada Day on July 1 and America's Independence Day on the Fourth of July. May our celebration of U.S.-Canada Days of Peace and Friendship ever remind us of the history of mutual goodwill that unites us and of the sacrifices so many have made in each country for the freedom, justice, and peace we cherish.
The Congress of the United States, by House Joint Resolution 587, has designated July 2 and 3, 1988, as "United States-Canada Days of Peace and Friendship" and authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this event.
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim July 2 and 3, 1988, as United States-Canada Days of Peace and Friendship. I call upon the people of the United States to observe these days with appropriate programs, ceremonies, and activities.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this 1st day of July, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eightyeight, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and twelfth.

RONALD REAGAN
  