
    Beto also set to attend the AFSCME 2020 Public Service Forum in Las Vegas on August 3rd with additional stops planned in Northern Nevada.
EL PASO—Beto for America today announced the members of its senior leadership team that will be in place to ensure victory in the critical early caucus state of Nevada. Yesterday, Beto O'Rourke introduced his Nevada leadership team to voters during his question and answer session on the Rural Nevada Democratic Caucus Virtual Meet and Greet.
During the Virtual Meet and Greet, Beto also announced that he will return to Nevada after the second Democratic presidential primary debate in Detroit, Michigan. He will be in Nevada from August 1 - 3, and the trip will include stops in northern Nevada as well as an appearance at the AFSCME 2020 Public Service Forum in Las Vegas on the 3rd.
"Nevada matters and we believe that we have the right candidate and the right team in place to ensure a victory for Beto O'Rourke," said Jen O'Malley Dillon, Beto for America Campaign Manager. "We're looking forward to connecting with voters across the Silver State and ensuring the stories we hear on the trail about their lives are incorporated into the solutions Beto is proposing to fix the problems facing our country today."
Marina Negroponte, Nevada State DirectorMarina Negroponte most recently worked for the We Are All Human Foundation, which focuses on unifying and elevating the voice of the Hispanic community across the United States, specifically among corporate leadership. Prior to that, she gained over a decade of experience in international development serving the United Nations in Italy, India, Panama, and Tanzania. She repatriated to the US in 2016 and spent 2 years at Paul G. Allen Philanthropies in Seattle, launching wildlife and habitat conservation management solutions into the software economy. Marina earned a Masters of Public Affairs from the Columbia University School of International and Public Affairs, and a Bachelors of Arts in International Relations from the University of Pennsylvania.
Abe Rakov, Early States DirectorAbe Rakov is the former president and executive director of Let America Vote, a national voting rights organization that ran field programs in five states in 2018, including Nevada. Let America Vote ran one of the largest volunteer-only led efforts in Nevada history, with 160 volunteers knocking on doors and making phone calls for statewide, state legislative and local candidates, as well as the automatic voter registration ballot initiative. Prior to working at Let America Vote, he served as Jason Kander's campaign manager in his 2016 race for U.S. Senate and 2012 campaign for Missouri Secretary of State. He has also worked for Congresswoman Eleanor Holmes Norton and former Missouri Secretary of State Robin Carnahan.
Sean Hoey, Nevada Organizing DirectorSean Hoey supported grassroots organizing for progressive campaigns and causes through his most recent work at public affairs consulting firm Precision Strategies. Prior to that, Sean was a part of Hillary Clinton's primary and general election teams, Planned Parenthood, the Democratic Party of Virginia 2017 coordinated campaign, and several campaigns in his home state of Wisconsin.
Cameron "CH" Miller, Nevada Political DirectorCameron is a Nevada native, born and raised in the Las Vegas Valley and has worked closely in all three re-election campaigns of Assemblyman Tyrone Thompson. He served as the inaugural Chairperson of the Civic Engagement Committee for the Las Vegas Urban League Young Professionals; where he led the launch of "Coffee & Conversations with the Candidates", "My Vote Matters" voter education workshops, and multiple registration drives. Sean also worked with the Las Vegas My Brother's Keeper Alliance, where he helped launch the state's first youth career exploration and workforce program focusing on the film industry. This work resulted in young adults acquiring employment in Nevada's film industry and the production of "Two Roads" a film about the importance of jury service. Cameron earned a Bachelors of Arts in Ministry Leadership from Northwest University.
Aman Afsah, Nevada Regional Organizing DirectorAfsah formerly Regional Field Director for the Democratic Party of New Mexico. He has also previously worked on gubernatorial and Senate races in Maryland.
  