
    To the Senate of the United states:
I am transmitting herewith, for the advice and consent of the Senate to acceptance, the International Coffee Agreement 1968 as Extended. This modified and extended agreement, which was adopted by the International Coffee Council in its Resolution No. 264 of April 14, 1973, deletes all operative economic provisions but preserves the structure of the International Coffee Organization through September 30, 1975.
The International Coffee Agreement 1968 as modified and extended will continue the decade-long cooperation on world trade in the most important agricultural commodity export of the developing world. But, in view of the changed coffee market outlook from one of surplus to one of tight supply, the extended agreement no longer contains provisions for intervening in the market. It will keep the International Coffee Organization alive as a forum for studying and discussing the world coffee economy, for monitoring coffee developments and, when the members deem it appropriate, for negotiating a new coffee agreement to serve the interests of coffee producers and consumers.
I believe continuing United States participation in the extended agreement will advance our interests in two ways. First, by that participation we can demonstrate concretely our readiness to work together with developing nations on matters of vital economic interest to them. Secondly, we can ensure that we will have a voice in the negotiation of any new international trade arrangements on coffee--arrangements in which we as the importers of almost 40 percent of international traded coffee have a significant stake. I am confident that we can achieve both these objectives in a manner fully consistent with the interests of our consumers.
I am also transmitting, for the information of the Senate, the report submitted 'to me by the Department of State explaining the provisions of the International Coffee Agreement 1968 as modified and extended, and providing background on the operation of the Agreement and on the current state of the world coffee economy.
RICHARD NIXON
The White House,
July 23, 1973.
  