
    
  STATEMENT OF ADMINISTRATION POLICY

(House)
(Rep. Obey, D-Wisconsin)
The Administration strongly supports House passage of H.R. 4899, making supplemental appropriations for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2010, and for other purposes. The legislation is essential for funding our ongoing overseas military, diplomatic, and intelligence operations; supporting individuals and communities responding to major disasters at home; and maintaining ongoing humanitarian work following the earthquake in Haiti. The Administration appreciates that the bill supports the President's request for funds to enable the response to the oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico to continue expeditiously, as well as increased security on the Southwest border and investments in the clean energy economy.
As in any military operation, the ability of U.S. forces to operate effectively in Afghanistan depends on affording the Commander in Chief the utmost flexibility and discretion. If the final bill presented to the President contains provisions that would undermine his ability as Commander in Chief to conduct military operations in Afghanistan, the President’s senior advisors would recommend a veto.
Since the quality of education we afford our children also is essential to our long-term strength and security, the Administration supports the proposed funding to avert the layoff of hundreds of thousands of public school teachers and deep cuts in Pell Grants that millions of students need to attend college.
However, H.R. 4899 also contains $800 million in rescissions from education reform programs—programs that will help schools upgrade their standards and instruction so as to better prepare more students to succeed in school and in life. The Administration is more than willing to work with the Congress to pursue fiscally responsible ways to finance education jobs; however, these rescissions undercut programs that have already received applications from more than three dozen States. It would be short-sighted to weaken funding for these reforms just as they begin to show such promise. The Administration urges the House to include education jobs funding in a version of H.R. 4899 that does not rescind education reform funding. If the final bill presented to the President includes cuts to education reforms, the President’s senior advisors would recommend a veto.
  