
    STATEMENT OF ADMINISTRATION POLICY
(Senate Floor)(Sponsors: Byrd (D), West Virginia; Adams (D), Washington)
This Statement of Administration Policy expresses the Administration's views on H.R. 5517, the District of Columbia Appropriations Bill, FY 1993, as reported by the Committee.
The Administration objects to section 114 of the Committee bill, which would permit the use of Congressionally-appropriated local funds to finance abortions. The President vetoed the FY 1990 and FY 1992 District of Columbia Appropriations Bills because they contained language identical to the language included in this bill. The Congress ultimately passed bills containing abortion language acceptable to the Administration.
The Administration urges the Senate to adopt language concerning abortion that was included in the FYs 1989-92 District of Columbia Appropriations Acts. This language prohibits the use of Federal and local funds to perform abortions, except where the life of the mother would be endangered if the fetus were carried to term. The President will veto any District of Columbia Appropriations Bill that does not include this language.
The Administration strongly opposes the Committee's proposed delay in funding of the full Federal contribution to the retirement funds of police officers, fire fighters, teachers, and judges. It would be financially irresponsible for the Federal government to delay its payments to the retirement funds. Since the agreement between the District of Columbia and the Federal government was made in 1978, every Administration has requested full funding for the Federal government's annual liability for these retirement funds.
The Administration opposes provisions in the Committee bill that would provide $50 million in advance appropriations for a private hospital in the District of Columbia. Advance appropriations undermine future discretion, for both the Congress and the President, in the distribution of budgetary resources.
On the basis of OMB's preliminary scoring, the Administration finds that the Committee bill is within the House and Senate 602(b) allocations for the Federal payment to the District. In aggregate, the House and Senate 602(b) allocations are consistent with the statutory spending limits enacted in the Budget Enforcement Act. 
  