
    "There is no one I trust more than Senator Harris to go toe-to-toe in a debate on the issues against Donald Trump."
In the wake of her commanding performance in Thursday night's debate, Senator Kamala Harris continues to build support in Nevada, earning eight new endorsements from elected officials and community leaders. Kamala's latest endorsers include Clark County Commissioner Justin Jones, community advocate Jennifer Lopez and African-American community leader and member of Links Inc. and Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority, Inc. LeVerne Kelly. Kamala boasts the most Nevada endorsers of all the 2020 Democratic candidates -- 74 percent are people of color, 58 percent are women, and 16 percent are LGBTQ.
"Senator Kamala Harris has been a lifelong champion for all Americans, and especially those least able to fight for themselves," said Clark County Commissioner Justin Jones. "She's proven that she is not afraid to take on tough issues -- including fighting climate change, protecting public lands, and enacting background checks on all gun sales --with both tenacity and compassion. And there is no one I trust more than Senator Harris to go toe-to-toe in a debate on the issues against Donald Trump. That's why today I'm proud to endorse Senator Kamala Harris for President."
"Senator Kamala Harris is the best person to lead our country because of her credentials at every level of government and lifelong record strengthening middle class families," said Jennifer Lopez, community advocate. "She's not afraid to fight for what's right and stand up to bullies. From protecting human tracking survivors, defending immigrant rights, and uplifting women's voices, this ground-breaking leader has always advocated for equality."
"Kamala Harris is an intelligent, experienced woman of character, truth, and dignity -- that's why I'm proud to endorse her for president!" said LeVerne Kelly, African-American community leader and member of Links Inc. and Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority, Inc.
Full list of Nevadans endorsing Kamala today:

Clark County Commissioner Justin Jones
Jennifer Lopez, community advocate
LeVerne Kelly, African-American community leader and member of Links Inc. and Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority, Inc.
Al B Sure, R&B singer and songwriter
Alex Dixon, former president of the Las Vegas Urban League Young Professionals
Francisco Aguilar, Las Vegas attorney and entrepreneur
Nancy Ayala, Las Vegas attorney
Brian Ayala, Las Vegas small business owner

Previously announced Nevadans endorsing Kamala Harris:

State Sen. Pat Spearman
Gerri Schroder, former Henderson City councilwoman
Chris Miller, former chairman of the Clark County Democratic Party
Tanya Flanagan, African-American community leader and fellow Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority, Inc. sister
Helen Foley, former Nevada State Senator
Rev. Leonard Jackson, African-American community leader
Rose McKinney James, clean energy leader
Lesley Miller, former board member of Nevadans for Background Checks
Stephanie Pizzoferrato, public school teacher and gun violence survivor
Sanje Sedera, founder and former president of the Asian American & Pacific Islander (AAPI) Democratic Caucus of Clark County
Janet Serial, chair of the Black Caucus of Washoe County and fellow Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority, Inc. sister

  