
    Pool Reports by Steven Nelson, New York Post 



Sent:
Reports:




July 1, 202106:41

Pool Report 1/Gathered for departure 
?Good morning from the South Lawn. The pool is gathered for President Biden's departure for Florida, scheduled for 6:55.



July 1, 202107:15

Pool Report 2/No questions 
President Biden emerged from the White House residence at 7:08.
He did not take any questions and held hands with the first lady as they crossed the lawn.
Marine One was wheels up at 7:13.



July 1, 202107:19

Pool Report 3/Travel companions 
The White House shares the following:
Traveling with the President and the First Lady on Marine One:
Anita Dunn, Senior Advisor to the PresidentJen O'Malley Dillon, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of StaffAnnie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office OperationsAnthony Bernal, Assistant to the President & Advisor to the First Lady



July 1, 202120:37

Pool Report 4/Lid 
Marine One landed on the South Lawn at 8:29.
President Biden and the first lady walked into the White House residence at 8:32.
Biden slowed his pace to listen to reporter questions, but he didn't stop to answer any of them. Question topics included his pledge to release everyone in prison for marijuana, the DOJ pause on federal executions and his son's art sales.




 
Pool Reports below by Eli Stokols, Los Angeles Times 



Sent:
Reports:




July 1, 202107:28

Out of town pool report #1 — JBA 
?Good morning from Joint Base Andrews.
Marine One touched down on the tarmac at 7:21 a.m. and rolled to a stop in the usual spot. POTUS, in a blazer and khakis but no tie, and FLOTUS, in a black dress, stepped off at 7:24 and walked slowly with their escorts (names below) over to Air Force One. After a brief conversation, they both waved to the pool and headed up the main steps. POTUS saluted at the top of the stairs and they were on board at 7:26.
Large travel contingent today, per the WH (list below).
AF1 will be wheels up for Florida momentarily.
For your planning, Karine Jean-Pierre will be gaggling shortly after departure (schedule says 8:30) and the audio will be available in the briefing room and on the White House site.
From the WH:
Upon arrival to Joint Base Andrews, the President and the First Lady will be greeted by Colonel William McDonald, 89th Airlift Wing Vice Commander and Mrs. Diana McDonald, Spouse of Colonel William McDonald.
Traveling with the President and the First Lady to Surfside, Florida:· Congresswoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL- 23)· Deanne Criswell, Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency· Anita Dunn, Senior Advisor to the President· Jen O'Malley Dillon, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff· Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations· Anthony Bernal, Assistant to the President & Advisor to the First Lady· Liz Sherwood-Randall, Assistant to the President& Homeland Security Advisor & Deputy National Security Advisor· Julissa Reynoso, Assistant to the President & Chief of Staff to the First Lady· Karine Jean-Pierre, Deputy Assistant to the President & Principal Deputy Press Secretary· Vinay Reddy, Deputy Assistant to the President & Director of Speechwriting· Julie Rodriguez, Deputy Assistant to the President & Director of White House Office of Intergovernmental Affairs· Stephen Goepfert, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the President· Travis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director· Meghan Hays, Special Assistant to the President& Director of Message Planning· Michael LaRosa, Press Secretary for the First Lady· Jordan Montoya, Director of Advance and Trip Director for the First Lady



July 1, 202109:29

Out of town pool report #2 — MIA arrival
AF1 was wheels up from JBA at 7:35 a.m. and wheels down at Miami International Airport at 9:26. Taxiing now.
Karine Jean-Pierre gaggled with the pool for roughly 15 minutes starting around 8:50 as AF1 was starting its descent. Not much news — a readout of FEMA's response in Surfside and emphasis of the president's intention to visit today mainly to thank first responders and comfort grieving families.
She couldn't say if POTUS would be visiting the condo site itself when he's in Surfside, only that plans have been in flux.



July 1, 202109:39

Out of town pool report #3 — motorcade rolling
POTUS (in aviators) and FLOTUS stepped off AF1 at 9:35 a.m. and walked down the main stairs holding hands. They walked quickly over to their limousine and got in. No greeters on the tarmac.
Pool loaded in vans. Motorcade rolling to Surfside as of 9:37.



July 1, 202110:14

Out of town pool report #4 — arrival at St. Regis
Motorcade arrived at the St. Regis Bal Harbour hotel, which is just north of Surfside, at 10:11 a.m. We did not see POTUS enter the hotel.
The first event on the schedule is the meeting with the incident commander, Gov. Ron DeSantis and first responders. We're moving now to get in place and anticipating a spray at the top.
The drive: Groups of onlookers scattered along Miami Springs Blvd. as the motorcade headed east away from the airport. And on I-95 as we headed north, southbound traffic was completely shut down; lots of folks were out of their cars, taking cell phone pictures of the passing motorcade. More onlookers — a large group of schoolkids on the sidewalk, employees gazing out the window of a day spa and a man vigorously waving a large Trump flag in his front yard — on NE 123rd St. before we hit the causeway over the intercoastal.
Humid day down here, no showers yet.



July 1, 202110:55

Out of town pool report #5 — briefing spray (ongoing)
Pool entered the conference room at 10:44 a.m. Had been told we'd have time to preset that was not the case!
POTUS was seated in the middle of a long table, with Gov. DeSantis to his right. Senators Scott and Rubio sat across from them.
First responders flanked the senators across the table. POTUS, speaking softly, said "I think I have the power…to pick up 100% of the cost," speaking it seemed of the federal emergency funds.
"We're not going anywhere," he said, urging those at the table to "tell me what you need."
Miami Dade manager Danielle Levine Cava, who was seated to Biden's left, thanked him for coming and for the swift federal response, calling it "an incredible collaboration." She called the collapse "unprecedented" and said the investigation would aim to make sure such a tragedy "never happens again."
Cava also thanked DeSantis for his "calm, steady" leadership.
DeSantis, in a navy blazer and blue shirt, spoke next and thanked Biden: "You recognized the severity of this tragedy from day one and you've been very supportive."
More: "We've had no bureaucracy," he continued, noting there have been no delays in getting federal resources to Florida. "We thank you for the support … What we just need need now is a little bit of luck, a little bit of prayer … we're not going to stop until we identify everybody."
Rep. Debbie Wasserman-Schultz sat at the far end of the table (on Biden's side) with FLOTUS seated beside her.
Pool exiting the room at 10:52 as Senator Scott, in a NAVY ballcap, was starting to speak. Briefing ongoing.



July 1, 202111:16

Out of town pool report #5a (attendees) 
Lots of first responders in uniform are milling about the hotel, so fair to assume the next event on POTUS' schedule, the meet and greet with first responders, will also be taking place here at the hotel.
Given that the two events after that (meeting with victims' families and POTUS remarks) were already scheduled to take place here, seems unlikely that POTUS will be going to the site in Surfside.
From the WH—
In attendance for the unified command briefing:
· Marco Rubio, Senator (FL)· Rick Scott, Senator (FL)· Ron DeSantis, Governor (FL)· Casey DeSantis, First Lady (FL)· Jeanette Nuñez, Lieutenant Governor (FL)· Debbie Wasserman Schultz, Congresswoman (FL-23)· Daniella Levine Cava, Mayor (Miami-Dade County)· Charles Burkett, Mayor (Surfside)· Deanne Criswell, Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency· Kevin Guthrie, Director, Florida Division of Emergency Management· Joseph Geller, State Representative (FL-Hollywood)· JD Patterson, Miami-Dade Chief Public Safety Officer· Johanna Cervone, Miami-Dade Chief of Staff· Alan Cominsky, Miami-Dade Fire Chief· Charles Cyrille, Deputy Incident Commander· Freddy Ramirez, Miami-Dade Police Chief· Jimmy Morales, Miami-Dade Chief Operations Officer· Rahel Weldeyesus, Senior Advisor to Mayor· Annika Holder, Community Action and Human Services Director



July 1, 202112:02

Out of town pool report #6 — spray of POTUS & FLOTUS w first responders
At 11:47, pool moved into a ballroom where around 50 uniformed first responders were gathered waiting for POTUS and FLOTUS to arrive. Two pieces of blue tape were affixed to the beige carpet where they are supposed to stand.
They entered at 11:51 and Biden walked over to the group, standing (not on the tape) just a foot or two away from them and dawn walking back and forth.
"I just wanted to come down and say thanks," he said, as FLOTUS stood behind him.
He spoke somewhat softly and, with his back turned away from the pool, it wasn't easy to hear all of his words to the first responders, but he seemed to be talking about his own experience with first responders, possibly his brain aneurysm (we heard him say "Walter Read".
"You saved my life," he said.
As he spoke, more officials entered and stood beside FLOTUS, including DeSantis and his wife, Wasserman-Schultz, Scott.
He was introduced to one of the first responders, possibly the battalion chief leading the response.
"What you're doing is incredible," he said.
He also made a comment — I didn't catch the quote — about fire season coming and the need for more firefighters.
Pool escorted out at 11:55.
Will try to get some more details on who he was speaking to — would also suggest checking TV pool feed for better audio on the POTUS remarks.



July 1, 202112:43

Out of town pool report #7 — meeting has ended + more POTUS quotes 
Pool has just been told the POTUS meeting with the first responders is over, although we were not given a time at which it ended.
We are holding for a while now, as POTUS is set to spend a few hours with the families of those who died or are still missing. That's closed press.
Wanted to pass along this partial transcript of Biden's comments to the first responders during the spray, courtesy of AP's Alex Jaffe.
Joked that in Delaware there's 3 political parties: Dems, GOP & firefighters, says I'm a firefighter.
"all kidding aside, the job you're doing is incredible""Y'know, most of the time people don't really fully appreciate you really till they need you." Then talked about moments first responders have come to his aid.
"What you're doing now is just hard as hell to deal with, even psychologically, to deal with. And I just wanted to say thank you. thank you, thank you thank you"
"As you all know it's not only what you're dealing with now, but your brothers and sisters across this country are having more pressure put on them because of the drought, more pressure because of, we have 121 degree heat up in Vancouver, you know you got a problem. I was on the zoom call yesterday with all the western governors. And you know what they're asking me for? We need more firefighters. We need more federal [?] Because you know last year, the fire season didn't start this early. …already its starting early…"
"Until we need you, no one fully appreciates what you do. But I promise you — we know. We know. What you're doing here is incredible, having to deal with the uncertainty, and worrying about the families."



July 1, 202112:57

Out of town pool report #8 — POTUS meeting w families has begun
Pool was just notified that POTUS has begun his meetings with victims' families. They started at 12:26 p.m., so been underway a half hour now.
We're also told the first responder greeting ended at 12:21 p.m.
Continuing to hold.



July 1, 202115:02

Out of town pool report #9 - Meeting w families ongoing, short readout 
No word yet that the POTUS meetings have wrapped with family members whose loved ones died or are missing, so we presume they are still going.
A lectern is now set up in the ballroom where he met earlier with first responders for the remarks that will follow. There's black drapery behind the lectern, along with two flags, and a teleprompter beneath the pool camera. Pool is holding in the room.
Meantime, here is a short readout from a senior administration official on what's happening in the meeting occurring now (h/t NBC's Mike Memoli):
He made brief remarks from the center of the room and then went from table to table. Worth noting that the Governor, Lt Gov, the two Senators, Cong Wassermann-Schulz, the Mayor, and of course the FLOTUS did as well, so many individual conversations. POTUS stayed until everyone had a chance to speak with him (don't know about the other electeds)



July 1, 202115:12

Out of town pool report #10 - meetings with families have concluded 
The White House says the POTUS meetings with families have wrapped up. That's from this offering just sent to the pool, which overlaps with what I sent in the last note from the SAO.
No ETA yet on the POTUS remarks but an agent did just place a glass of water beside the lectern.
From the WH--
Some color from the President and First Lady's meeting with families:
The President delivered brief remarks from the center of the room, then went from table to table. The President was joined by the First Lady, Senator Marco Rubio, Senator Rick Scott, Governor Ron DeSantis, Lieutenant Governor Jeanette Nuñez, Congresswoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz, and Mayor Daniella Levine Cava. The meeting has concluded.



July 1, 202115:51

Out of town pool report #11 - POTUS remarks "soon" 
The presidential seal has been affixed to the lectern and staff says POTUS will be here "soon" to deliver remarks, which are expected to be on the shorter side (less than 10 minutes).
The speech will be carried live here: https://www.whitehouse.gov/live/



July 1, 202116:28

Out of town pool report #11a - 2-minute warning to POTUS remarks
Staff has been in the room with us for about 15 minutes now. Pool received a 2-minute warning to POTUS remarks at 4:27 p.m., so stand by!
And watch here: https://www.whitehouse.gov/live/



July 1, 202116:52

Out of town pool report #12 — POTUS remarks 
POTUS spoke for about seven minutes and then took a few questions. It was open press but some notes on the Q&A portion:
Asked first if families had hope of finding loved ones alive, he said the families "are realistic," and have seen the crush of concrete and debris at the condo site. "They know that the chances as the days go by diminish slightly," he said.
He got fairly emotional talking about his own experience with grief.
"It's bad enough to lose somebody. But the hard part, the really hard part is to not know if somebody survived," he said, choking up and recalling the accident when he lost his first wife and daughter and not knowing if his sons would survive.
He also said he didn't raise it but was struck by how many families expressed concern about climate change, coastal erosion and worsening tropical storms.
Asked for a reaction to the Trump Corporation indictment, Biden said "I know nothing" and "even if I did, I wouldn't comment on an ongoing case."
On SCOTUS voting rights ruling, he said he thinks there may be "a remedy available … I think that it is critical that we make a distinction between voter suppression and voter suspension."
He said he plans to speak on voting rights in more depth next week.
He departed at 4:44. Pool hustling to vans for motorcade back to MIA.



July 1, 202117:06

Out of town pool report #13 — unexpected Surfside stop 
Motorcade was rolling away from the St. Regis at 4:56 p.m. in a light drizzle and headed south. After about a five-minute drive, we stopped two blocks from the collapsed condo site at the tent city where a photo wall honoring the victims and those missing is set up. Above flowers and photos attached to the chain link fence hung a sign, "Surfside Wall of Hope and Memorial".
POTUS and FLOTUS got out of the limousine at 5:01 PM. Flotus held a bouquet of white flowers as the two walked over to the sidewalk for a conversation. Then they walked over to The photo wall.
Still here…



July 1, 202117:18

Out of town pool report #14 — more from Surfside photo wall / rolling
POTUS and FLOTUS walked slowly along the fence looking closely at the photos, reading some of the homemade signs. One said "We First Responders"; others quoted bible verses.
The remains of the partially collapsed building rose a block away behind the chain link fence, the concrete facade marked with the graffitied x's of rescue crews, the mangled metal balconies hanging broken and twisted off the edges.
After a few minutes, FLOTUS knelt and laid the bouquet of white irises on the curb between some memorial candles. The Bidens stood there together holding hands for a moment with the president's heads down; he crossed himself before they turned and began to walk back to the limousine.
There were maybe 100-150 people behind a barricade snapping pics while the president was on the scene. Police helping barricade the area were overheard expressing surprise about the visit and the very short heads up they appear to have gotten.
Motorcade rolling away at 5:16.



July 1, 202118:07

Out of town pool report #15 — AF1 about to depart MIA
Motorcade rolled to a stop beside Air Force One on the tarmac at Miami International at 6:02 p.m. after a 46-minute drive from Surfside.
POTUS, now in a navy baseball hat, walked up the main steps with FLOTUS ahead of him at 6:03. He waved at the top and took off his hat and waved it at the police officers who led his motorcade and then went aboard.
We're boarding now and will be rolling shortly and headed back to JBA.



July 1, 202118:13

Out of town pool report #16 — remainders / wheels up
AF1 rolling now.
Pool is told there were about 200 people in the room with POTUS and FLOTUS, not clear how many families that was.
That meeting ran from 12:26 p.m. to 3:08, so just less than three hours.
Also, the hat POTUS was wearing as he boarded was given to him by a recovery crew when he was at the photo wall earlier. The crew was on its way back to resume recovery efforts at the site; the hat has their name on it.
Wheels up at 6:13.



July 1, 202120:08

Out of town pool report #17 — wheels down JBA 
AF1 was wheels up from Miami at 6:13 p.m. and wheels down at JBA at 8:05.
During the flight, Anita Dunn came to the press cabin for an OTR that lasted about 40 minutes.
Taxiing now.



July 1, 202120:22

Out of town pool report #18 — POTUS heading to WH
POTUS and FLOTUS stepped off AF1 at 8:13 p.m. and held hands as they came down the steps. They were greeted by the same vice commander and his wife from this morning, chatted for a moment and turned to walk to Marine One.
They stepped on board at 8:15 and lifted up at 8:20, White House bound.
Handing off to in-town pool.




  