
    President Bush to Nominate Three Individuals to Serve in His Administration
President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate three individuals to serve in his administration.
The President intends to nominate Marion C. Blakey to be Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration for a five-year term. Ms. Blakey has served as Chairman of the National Transportation Safety Board since her confirmation by the Senate in September 2001, and appointment by President Bush. She has a long record of government service. From 1992 to 1993, she served as the Administrator of the Department of Transportation's National Highway Traffic Safety Administration. She has also held positions in the Department of Commerce, the Department of Education, the National Endowment for the Humanities, and the White House. Before her appointment by President Bush last year, Ms. Blakey was the principal of Blakey and Associates, a public affairs consulting firm specializing in transportation issues and traffic safety. Originally from Mississippi, she is a graduate of Mary Washington College of the University of Virginia.
The President intends to nominate Pamela F. Olson to be Assistant Secretary of the Treasury for Tax Policy. Olson has served as Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Treasury for Tax Policy since 2001. From 1986 to 2001, she was an Associate and then Partner in the Washington, D.C. office of Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher and Flom where she practiced tax law. From 1981 to 1986, Olson was Special Assistant to the Chief Counsel of the IRS. She is currently a Fellow with the American College of Tax Counsel and with the Tax Council, and she is a Trustee of the American Tax Policy Institute. Olson earned a bachelor's degree, law degree and M. B. A. from the University of Minnesota.
The President intends to nominate Roger P. Nober to be a member of the Surface Transportation Board for the remainder of a five-year term expiring December 31, 2005, and upon confirmation, Nober will be designated Chairman. Nober has served as Counselor to the Deputy Secretary of Transportation since May 2001. From 1997 to 2001, he was the Chief Counsel for the U.S. House of Representatives Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and from 1993 to 1997, he was Counsel to the Subcommittee on Surface Transportation. Nober received a bachelor's degree from Haverford College and a law degree from Harvard Law School.
  