
    Since the founding of our Nation, Americans have cherished our liberty and honored those who made the ultimate sacrifice to defend it. As we commemorate the Declaration of Independence this Fourth of July, we remember all those who have upheld freedom over tyranny for our country.
On July 4, 1776, the Second Continental Congress adopted the Declaration of Independence. President Thomas Jefferson held the first Fourth of July event at the White House in 1801, and modern Presidents have continued the tradition.
This year, at the second annual "Salute to America," President Trump will deliver remarks from the South Lawn of the White House.
Joining President Trump and the First Lady will be members of our military, first responders, doctors, nurses, and other American heroes who fought the Coronavirus pandemic on the front lines.
Festivities will honor our service members and veterans with music, military demonstrations, and flyovers—as well as a spectacular fireworks display!
History of Independence Day at the White House
 
    
Download full size image   During the Presidency of Theodore Roosevelt, Fourth of July celebrations commenced with patriotic speeches on the South Lawn (1903).   
    
Download full size image   President Ronald Reagan and First Lady Nancy Reagan prepare for the fireworks display above the Washington Monument (1981).   
    
Download full size image   President George W. Bush and First Lady Laura Bush embrace each other as they look onto the Fourth of July crowd (2001).   
    
Download full size image   Staff and guests of the White House ready themselves for the fireworks display over the Washington Monument (2002).   
    
Download full size image   President Barack Obama and First Lady Michelle Obama watch fireworks over the Washington Monument (2009).   
    
Download full size image   President Donald J. Trump and First Lady Melania Trump host military families at the White House for Independence Day on July 4, 2017. (Official White House Photo by Andrea Hanks)   
    
Download full size image   Singer Kelly Levesque rehearses "God Bless the USA" on the South Lawn of the White House, Tuesday, July 3, 2018, in preparation for a Fourth of July celebration at the White House. (Official White House Photo by Keegan Barber)   
    
Download full size image   President Donald J. Trump and First Lady Melania Trump watch fireworks from the Truman Balcony at the White House on July 4, 2018. (Official White House Photo by Shealah Craighead)   
    
Download full size image   A rooftop view from the White House shows military families and invited guests at the White House on July 4, 2018. (Official White House Photo by Shealah Craighead)           
1/? 
  