
    Thank you very, very much, Mr. Chancellor, Mrs. Schmidt, Captain von Stackelberg, distinguished guests:
In the atmosphere of the outstanding Baltimore Harbor, the atmosphere of Fort McHenry, and the wonderful ship on which we are enjoying ourselves this evening, I thank you for your kind and gracious remarks. And I express to you, Mr. Chancellor, and to Mrs. Schmidt the very best wishes of Mrs. Ford and myself and all 215 million Americans.
About a year ago, I had the privilege of making some comments over at Fort McHenry, which is a very integral part now, but even more importantly, a very vital part of the Port of Baltimore in the difficulties we had with Great Britain back in the War of 1812. And looking at Fort McHenry today, one can't help but get the feeling that it represents the kind of spirit which was so prominent during our Bicentennial experience over the Fourth of July, when there seemed to be an upsurge, a tremendous movement among the American people to have a reaffirmation of our true patriotic feeling in this country.
And I wish to thank you, Mr. Chancellor, for the generous gift and the thoughtfulness of you and the people from the Federal Republic on behalf of our 200th anniversary.
May I say to Captain von Stackelberg that you deserve congratulations for winning the contest between Bermuda and Newport. Mrs. Ford and I had the opportunity to view by helicopter and, to some extent, from the deck of the Forrestal, the Operation Sail and the tall ships.
As we looked from the air, particularly, we had the feeling that the many ships representing many countries gave us the feeling that if you, in a good naval exercise, could operate in that somewhat limited area without incident and with success it ought to be an inspiration for those of us in government to do the same as we try to meet the problems, both at home as well as throughout the globe.
So, I congratulate you on winning, but I also congratulate you, representing all of the tall ships that participated in Operation Sail in New York Harbor.
Let me conclude by simply saying to you, Mr. Chancellor, it has been my privilege and pleasure to meet with you on a bilateral basis three times, and it has been an equally fine experience for us to be together in multilateral experiences eight times.
I can say without hesitation or qualification, the personal relationship, the relationship on a bilateral basis between your country and mine, couldn't be better. And I thank you personally, and I thank you on behalf of all Americans for the close alliance between your country and ours--a friendship, a rapport, and a dedication which does more for freedom, does more for the good things in this globe, than any relationship that I know.
May I say to the captain and to his crew and to your country, I hope and trust that you will have fair winds and a flowing sea.
  