
    Italian Prime Minister Giulio Andreotti paid an official visit to Washington July 26-27 at the invitation of President Carter. He was accompanied by Foreign Minister Arnaldo Forlani. The President gave a White House dinner for the Prime Minister on July 26 and held two lengthy conversations with the Italian visitors. The talks between the President and the Prime Minister covered a wide range of political, economic, security, and cultural issues in which the two nations share an interest. These discussions were a follow-on to the meeting between the President and the Prime Minister in May at the London summit. The President and the Prime Minister expressed their intention to continue the process of close consultations between the two Governments and emphasized their basic agreement on major issues.
During their meetings, the President and the Prime Minister discussed East-West relations, focusing on SALT and other arms control negotiations; developments in Europe, with special reference to the European Community; the situation in the Mediterranean and the Middle East; and the upcoming fall meeting in Belgrade of the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe. The President and the Prime Minister also discussed human rights and their role in international affairs, agreeing on the desirability of continuing to stress implementation of these universally accepted values as an important element in the process of detente.
The Prime Minister described the Italian situation in its various aspects. The President expressed appreciation for Italy's continued contribution to Western cooperation and Allied solidarity, and its commitment to democratic institutions.
The President and the Prime Minister discussed the economic difficulties that beset many of the industrialized democracies and pledged to work for common solutions. The two leaders agreed that the Andreotti government's economic program has moved the Italian economy toward greater stability, less inflation, and a more favorable balance of payments. They agreed on the need to persevere along the lines agreed with the IMF, as well as on the necessity of implementing the consensus reached at the London summit to adjust payments imbalances in a context of expanding trade and economic development.
The President and the Prime Minister devoted a major part of their talks to world energy problems. They affirmed their intention to enhance and reinvigorate cooperation through the International Energy Agency and, bilaterally, through the U.S.-Italy Energy Working Group to coordinate policies and assist one another in this area of great significance. In this connection, the President agreed to explore ways of meeting Italy's needs for assured supplies of natural uranium as well as financing of its nuclear power program. The two leaders discussed the special energy requirements and objectives which Italy shares with other major industrialized countries heavily dependent on imported fossil fuels. They expressed their hope that the International Nuclear Fuel Cycle Evaluation would contribute to their common objectives in the field of nuclear nonproliferation and to a satisfactory solution of the participating countries' needs for assured fuel. They also agreed to expand cooperation in energy conservation, in safe and environmentally sound operation of nuclear reactors, and in the development of new sources of energy-solar, bioconversion, geothermal, and others.
Recognizing the importance of historical ties of friendship, a common cultural heritage, and the contribution of millions of Americans of Italian descent to the intellectual, spiritual, and economic life of the United States, the President and the Prime Minister agreed that every effort should be made to increase the already significant exchanges between the two countries in the fields of education and culture.
They agreed in particular on the desirability of a new effort of reciprocal assistance, in which Italy would assist in the strengthening of Italian language and study programs in the United States, and the United States would assist in the strengthening of English language teaching and American studies programs in Italy.
The two leaders also placed high priority on a two-way expansion of student and scholarly exchange and expressed their support for efforts now underway to finance additional exchanges, through loan funds made available by the private sector in the two countries.
The President and the Prime Minister discussed other areas where future cooperation between the two countries could lead to immediate results of mutual benefit, including an agreement on defense procurement, and follow-up visits by cabinet-level officials of the two Governments in the next few months. These visits will give impetus to U.S.-Italian cooperation in the areas of defense; economic, financial, and investment relations; scientific and technological cooperation; and exchanges of information on administrative matters.
During the course of the visit, the two Governments also agreed to announce that the Chicago Symphony will perform in Milan in September 1978, in return for the participation in our Bicentennial celebration of the La Scala Opera Company. In addition, a major exhibit called "Pompeii A.D. 79" will tour the United States soon.
  