
    The following list does not include promotions of members of the Uniformed Services, nominations to the Service Academies, or nominations of Foreign Service officers.
Submitted July 8
Donna Jean Hrinak, of Virginia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Bolivia.
Richard Dale Kauzlarich, of Virginia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
Submitted July 9
August Schumacher, Jr., of Massachusetts, to be Under Secretary of Agriculture for Farm and Foreign Agricultural Services, vice Eugene Moos, resigned.
Jamie Rappaport Clark, of Maryland, to be Director of the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, vice Molly H. Beattie.
I. Miley Gonzales, of New Mexico, to be Under Secretary of Agriculture for Research, Education, and Economics, vice Karl N. Stauber.
Saul N. Ramirez, Jr., of Texas, to be an Assistant Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, vice Andrew M. Cuomo.
Submitted July 10
Terry D. Garcia, of California, to be Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Oceans and Atmosphere, vice Douglas Kent Hall.
Kathleen M. Karpan, of Wyoming, to be Director of the Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, vice Robert Jay Uram, resigned.
Submitted July 11
Roger Walton Ferguson, of Massachusetts, to be a member of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System for the unexpired term of 14 years from February 1, 1986, vice Lawrence B. Lindsey, resigned.
Timothy F. Geithner, of New York, to be a Deputy Under Secretary of the Treasury, vice David A. Lipton.
Edward M. Gramlich, of Virginia, to be a member of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System for the unexpired term of 14 years from February 1, 1994, vice Janet L. Yellen, resigned.
August Schumacher, Jr., of Massachusetts, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Commodity Credit Corporation, vice Eugene Moos.
Thomas E. Scott, of Florida, to be U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of Florida for the term of 4 years, vice Kendall B. Coffey, resigned.
Shirley Robinson Watkins, of Arkansas, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Commodity Credit Corporation, vice Ellen Weinberger Haas.
  