
    Pool Reports by Tia Mitchell, The Atlanta Journal-Constitution 



Sent:
Reports:




July 20, 2023 12:02

VP travel pool report #1: wheels down
Good afternoon from Indianapolis, Indiana, where VP Harris will be the keynote speaker during the Social Action Luncheon at Delta Sigma Theta Sorority's 56th National Convention.
AF2 landed at Indianapolis International Airport at 11:47 a.m. Only media was present when VP exited the plane. The Pool is now in van with motorcade headed to the Indiana Convention Center.
Your pooler is pulling double duty since I'm a proud member of Delta Sigma Theta also here for the convention with thousands of my Sorors.
Some background from your pooler: VP Harris is a member of Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority, the nation's first Black sorority. Delta Sigma Theta Sorority was the second to be established, doing so with a focus on public service. One of the newest members of DST is Supreme Court Justice Ketanji Brown Jackson, who was inducted in a group of seven honorary members yesterday.
Both sororities are members of the National Pan Hellenic Council of nine historically Black fraternities and sororities, also known as the Divine 9.


July 20, 2023 12:32

VP travel pool report #2: motorcade arrives
The VP's motorcade arrived at the convention center at 12:19pm. Pool is holding in the huge convention hall where the luncheon will take place. Delta women in red and white are already gathered around tables set with red and white roses. VP was taken to a holding room; pool did not see her exit vehicle.
On Background from a White House Official:
Today, July 20, 2023, Vice President Kamala Harris will deliver keynote remarks at the Delta Sigma Theta Sorority, Inc. 56th National Convention luncheon, titled "Forward with Fortitude: Elevating Our Power for a New Era of Impact."
The Vice President's remarks will be livestreamed at 1:30 PM ET at www.whitehouse.gov/live.
This trip is part of Vice President Harris's blitz of summer travel in which she continues to engage with key constituencies across the nation. During her remarks, Vice President Harris will recognize the collective work, accomplishments, and power of Delta Sigma Theta Sorority, Inc. The sorority's community, sustained by the incredible legacies of Black women across the nation, has a seat at the Biden-Harris table.
As a member of Alpha Kappa Alpha, Sorority Inc., Vice President Harris is clear about the role that Black Greek-lettered organizations play across our nation as they push progress forward on the frontlines of history and in present times.
The Biden-Harris Administration and Delta Sigma Theta Sorority, Inc. share a vision of a country where the rights and freedoms of all Americans are fought for and protected. A nation in which all people—no matter who they are or where they start—have the freedom to dream with ambition and aspiration.
To this end, the Administration has led the fight for creating good-paying jobs, supporting minority-owned small businesses, ending the maternal health crisis, lowering prescription drug prices, removing lead pipes to expand access to clean drinking water, increasing funding for HBCUs, and making the justice system more fair. The Administration is also continuing the fight for reproductive freedom, voting rights, LGBTQ+ equality, and combatting extreme attacks on fundamental freedoms.


July 20, 2023 13:58

VP travel pool report #3: VP speaking
The luncheon got underway shortly after 1 p.m. Among the dignitaries in the room is Secretary of Housing and Urban Development Marcia Fudge, who served as the 21st National President of Delta Sigma Theta.
Current National President Elsie Cooke-Holmes introduced VP Harris. Harris walked on the stage and embraced Cooke-Holmes.
The VP is now delivering her remakes.
This portion of the program is steaming. Whitehouse.gov/live


July 20, 2023 15:44

VP travel pool report #4: wheels up
Vice President Harris peppered her speech with references to notable members of Delta Sigma Theta, including Barbara Jordan, Shirley Chisolm, Dorothy Height, Ida B. Well, Marcia Fudge and Ketanji Brown Jackson.
She spoke about the sorority's history of public service and political activity and said it's members help elect her and President Joe Biden to office.
She spoke about the administration's successes in addressing health care costs, such as insulin, and fighting for access to abortion. She also talked about efforts to make the federal bench more reflective of the U.S. population.
There was rousing applause when she spoke about diversifying the federal appellate bench, including the successful nomination of Ketanji Brown Jackson, the newest member of Delta Sigma Theta.
In closing, the Vice President said the fight continues for access to health care and stronger communities: "Let us fight, fueled by the love of our children. Let us fight fueled by the love of our country. And let us fight with the knowledge and the faith that when we fight, we win."
AF 2 was wheels up at 3:18 p.m. with Harris returning to Washington.
Please consult the video and the transcript for her full remarks, as recording in such a cavernous space made it difficult to catch quotes.
That's it from your travel pooler, who is now returning to her sorority girl activities.



  