
    Sir:
The increasing seriousness of the international situation demands that every element of our national defense structure be brought as rapidly as possible to the highest state of efficiency, in training as well as in equipment and material.
The National Guard of the United States, an integral and vital part of the Army, comprises a body of men who have voluntarily assumed an obligation to serve the nation in any crisis. To the extent possible under normal conditions, the officers and men of the National Guard have prepared themselves for this service, and I am assured that today the Guard has reached the highest state of efficiency in its peacetime history.
The developments of modern warfare are such, however, that only the seasoned and highly trained troops can hope for success in combat. Our citizen soldiery, no matter how willing and earnest, cannot possibly attain the necessary degree of efficiency through their normal training activities. Even our professional soldiers require months of intensive training to bring them to their present satisfactory state. We know too well the tragedy that ensues when inadequately trained men are assailed by a more skillful adversary.
Some weeks ago I asked the Congress for authority to order the National Guard into active service should an emergency require this action when your body was not in session. That proposal is no longer sufficient, as I am now convinced that the security of the nation demands that this component of our Army be brought to the highest possible state of training efficiency more rapidly than its present program permits. Moreover, this group of men who of necessity must be among the first to fight in the nation's defense have a right to the best preparation that time and circumstance permit.
Realizing as I do the personal sacrifice that a period of extended active duty demands of the National Guard, I have deferred until now any request for immediate action in this respect. I cannot, and with clear conscience, longer postpone this vitally essential step in our progress toward adequate preparedness, and I am therefore transmitting herewith legislation that, if enacted, will enable me to order the National Guard of the United States to active service for such period of intensive training as may be necessary to raise its efficiency to a point comparable with that of our small regular establishment.
If this authority is granted, I propose to order the guard to duty in successive increments to permit the effective use of training facilities and equipment immediately available. Each increment will, of course, be released when it attains the desired state of efficiency.
Of equal importance is the Officers Reserve Corps. This splendid body of officers has had little opportunity for service with troops, and to the maximum extent possible their training should now be perfected by an adequate period of active service. If ordered to active duty, they can acquire the desired efficiency and at the same time supply the increased need for officers in our expanded Regular Army. The authority I am requesting is therefore drawn so as to include the Officers Reserve Corps.
I ask your earnest consideration of this program and your prompt and favorable action thereon.
Hon. John N. Garner,
President of the Senate,
Washington, D. C.
  