
    MANCHESTER, NH -- U.S. Senator John McCain's presidential campaign today announced the leadership of New Hampshire Veterans for John McCain, a statewide grassroots organization that will work to bolster John McCain's support within New Hampshire's veterans' community. With members representing all ten Granite State counties, the group's membership spans generations, including veterans from World War II to the combat operations in Iraq and Afghanistan.
"Veterans back John McCain because he always backs us. From working tirelessly to improve veterans' health care to streamlining VA services, Senator McCain clearly understands that our nation is forever indebted to those who served in our nation's armed forces," said Paul Chevalier, Co-Chair of New Hampshire Veterans for John McCain. "McCain's strong support extends to those who are currently serving in Iraq and Afghanistan. While his opponent has played politics with troop funding, John McCain continues to fight for our servicemen and women, while also working to ease their transition back to civilian life."
McCain's campaign announced the leadership of New Hampshire Veterans for John McCain today at a press event in Manchester that featured Tom Ridge, the former Pennsylvania governor who was the first Secretary of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. Governor Ridge, a national McCain campaign co-chair, is a veteran who served as a U.S. Army infantry staff sergeant in Vietnam, earning the Bronze Star for Valor, the Combat Infantry Badge and the Vietnamese Cross of Gallantry.
NEW HAMPSHIRE VETERANS FOR JOHN MCCAIN LEADERSHIP TEAM
Co-Chairs
Paul Chevalier, Marine Corps, Hudson (past New Hampshire VFW commander)
Griff Dalianis, Air Force, Nashua
County Chairs
Belknap -- Kurt Webber, Army, Gilford
Carroll -- David Sorensen, Army, Conway
Coos -- Ed Ashby, Navy, Jefferson
Cheshire -- Robert Kasper, Navy, Walpole
Grafton -- Ward Scott, Marine Corps, Plymouth
Grafton -- Jeff Gaudet, Navy, Campton
Hillsborough -- John Gill, Navy, Nashua
Merrimack -- Bill Grimm, Navy, Franklin
Rockingham -- John Flanders, Navy, Kingston
Sullivan -- Donald Weatherson, Navy, Sunapee
Strafford -- John Calo, Army, Rochester
  