
    The following list does not include promotions of members of the Uniformed Services, nominations to the Service Academies, or nominations of Foreign Service officers.
Submitted July 14
Bill Richardson, of New Mexico, to be Secretary of Energy, vice Federico Pena, resigned.
Submitted July 15
Charles R. Rawls, of North Carolina, to be General Counsel of the Department of Agriculture, vice James S. Gilliland, resigned.
George McDade Staples, of Kentucky, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Rwanda.
Robert M. Walker, of Tennessee, to be Deputy Director of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, vice Harvey G. Ryland, resigned.
Submitted July 16
John D. Hawke, Jr., of the District of Columbia, to be Comptroller of the Currency for a term of 5 years, vice Eugene Allan Ludwig, resigned.
John Melvin Yates, of Washington, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Cameroon.
Submitted July 17
Romulo L. Diaz, Jr., of the District of Columbia, to be an Assistant Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, vice Jonathan Z. Cannon, resigned.
J. Charles Fox, of Maryland, to be an Assistant Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, vice Mary Delores Nichols.
Paul Steven Miller, of California, to be a member of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission for the remainder of the term expiring July 1, 1999, vice Gilbert F. Casellas, resigned.
John J. Pikarski, Jr., of Illinois, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation for the remainder of the term expiring December 17, 1998, vice Gerald S. McGowan.
John J. Pikarski, Jr., of Illinois, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation for a term expiring December 17, 2001 (reappointment).
  