
    NBC's David Gregory: "Crisis After Crisis Has Undermined The Bush Doctrine." (NBC's "Today," 7/21/06)
A Consensus Is Building Behind The President's Foreign Policy Approach

The United States Is Rallying The World Behind North Korea. "The U.N. Security Council unanimously adopted a resolution Saturday condemning North Korea's recent missile tests and demanding that the reclusive communist nation suspend its ballistic missile program." (Edith M. Lederer, "Security Council Unanimously Adopts North Korea Resolution," The Associated Press, 7/15/06)
The United States Is Rallying The World Behind Its Policy Toward Iran. "World powers rebuked Iran last week by seeking possible punishment from the Security Council, saying Iran had not signaled an intent to negotiate seriously over its disputed nuclear program. … 'Iran has a serious choice to make and we invited it to make the right decision to react positively to the concrete proposals presented to it,' the [G8] leaders said in their statement." (Jeannine Aversa, "Leaders Press North Korea On Missile Tests, Urge Iran To Accept Nuclear Energy Offer," The Associated Press, 7/18/06)
The United States Is Rallying The World Behind Its Policy Toward Iraq. "We will support the newly constitutionally elected government of Iraq and call upon it to continue the policies of inclusiveness as a means to overcome divisions within Iraq. We will continue to assist in building an independent, stable, secure, democratic, prosperous and united Iraq at peace with its neighbours and the international community." ("U.S.-EU Summit Declaration: Promoting Peace, Human Rights And Democracy Worldwide," 6/21/06)
The United States Is Rallying The World Behind Its Policy Toward The Israeli-Palestinian Conflict. "We will continue to promote a negotiated solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict on the basis of the Roadmap in order to advance a just, viable and lasting two-state solution and we call on both parties to avoid unilateral measures that prejudice final status issues." ("U.S.-EU Summit Declaration: Promoting Peace, Human Rights And Democracy Worldwide," 6/21/06)

Gregory: The Administration Has Exercised "Diplomatic Disengagement From The Israeli Conflict In Favor Of A Wait And See Approach." (NBC's "Today," 7/21/06)
The Administration Is Continuing Its Active Engagement

The Associated Press : "Rice Outlines Plan For Mideast Solution." "Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, heading for a weekend trip to the troubled Middle East, said Friday she would work with allies in the region to help create conditions for 'stability and lasting peace.'" (Anne Gearan, "Rice Outlines Plan For Mideast Solution," The Associated Press, 7/21/06)
The President Has A Record Of Personal Engagement In The Middle East Peace Process. Since taking office, President Bush has met with Prime Minister Olmert once since Olmert became Prime Minister, President Bush has met with Prime Minister Sharon 12 times, and President Bush has met with President Abbas five times. This includes President Bush's 2003 meeting with Prime Minister Sharon and President Abbas together in Sharm el Sheikh. In 2002, President Bush outlined his vision for Middle East peace, including a two-state solution.

Gregory: President Bush's Foreign Policy "Has Yet To Produce The Promised Results." (NBC's "Today," 7/21/06)
Foreign Policy Problems Did Not Arise Overnight, And They Will Not Be Solved Overnight

President Bush, 9/20/01: "I ask … for your patience in what will be a long struggle." (President Bush, Address To A Joint Session Of Congress And The American People, Washington, DC, 9/20/01)
President Bush's Second Term National Security Strategy: "The United States is in the early years of a long struggle, similar to what our country faced in the early years of the Cold War." ("National Security Strategy," 3/16/06)
President Bush, 7/7/06: "So we're now working the diplomacy, and you're watching the diplomacy work, not only in North Korea, but in Iran. It's kind of painful in a way for some to watch because it takes a while to get people on the same page. … Things just don't happen overnight." (President Bush, Press Conference, Chicago, IL, 7/7/06)
Completing The Formation Of The New Iraqi Government And Killing The Terrorist Leader Zarqawi Are Two Significant Steps Toward Denying Terrorists Safe Haven In Iraq And Safeguarding The People Of The United States.

Gregory: Comments From Conservatives Such As Max Boot Show That Conservatives Are Questioning "The President's Nerve." GREGORY: "Even the President's conservative allies say the world has become more unstable. Where, they now ask, is the President's nerve?"MAX BOOT, COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS: "We should be more aggressive in trying to make clear to Iran and Syria that their aggressive actions will have consequences." (NBC's "Today," 7/21/06)
Conservatives Stand Behind The President's Policies
On Wednesday, Max Boot Wrote: "Our Best Response Is Exactly What Bush Has Done So Far – Reject Premature Calls For A Cease-Fire And Let Israel Finish The Job." (Max Boot, "It's Time To Let The Israelis Take Off The Gloves," Los Angeles Times, 7/19/06)
  