
    Local Officials, Community Leaders Also Back Hillary
The Clinton Campaign today announced the endorsement of Philadelphia Mayor John F. Street, Congressman Joe Sestak and several leading local officials and community leaders.
"Senator Clinton is a progressive leader who has served the people of our country with dedication and passion for over 30 years," Mayor Street said. "She will be a strong advocate for our nation's cities, and I endorse her candidacy for president."
Elected in 1999, Mayor Street launched an ambitious effort called the Neighborhood Transformation Initiative to revitalize local communities by eliminating blight and decayed properties, developing affordable and market-rate housing, and cleaning and securing city streets. Mayor Street also focused on improving the lives of the city's children, forming the Philadelphia Children's Commission, developing after-school programming, supporting education reforms and creating programs to reduce truancy.
Prior to his election as mayor, Street served 20 years on the Philadelphia City Council and was chosen unanimously by its members to serve as president in 1992 and 1996. As Council President, Mayor Street was known for his expertise on a range of issues including city budgeting and fiscal matters, housing, education and crime. Working with then-Mayor Edward G. Rendell, Mayor Street helped craft and implement a financial plan that turned a $250 million deficit into the largest surplus in city history.
"I'm honored to have the support of Mayor Street and these local leaders," Clinton said. "With their help, we'll take our message of change across Pennsylvania."
Philadelphia-Area Leaders Endorsing Hillary Clinton Today:

Mayor John F. Street
Congressman Joe Sestak
City Controller Alan Butkovitz
State Senator Connie Williams
State Representative Jewel Williams
Lehigh County Executive Don Cunningham
City Councilwoman Jannie Blackwell
City Councilman Frank DiCicco
City Councilwoman Donna Reed Miller
Former Congressman Joe Hoeffel
Asia Coney, President, Resident Advisory Board
Carl Green, Executive Director, Philadelphia Housing Authority

  