
    Mr. Prime Minister, Mrs. Fraser, ladies and gentlemen:
It is a very special pleasure for me to welcome you tonight, the Prime Minister of one of America's closest friends, one of our closest allies, Australia.
Americans and Australians have traditionally enjoyed a very special and a very natural rapport, but this year the Government and the people of Australia have gone to extraordinary lengths to demonstrate their friendship in helping us celebrate in America our Bicentennial. Let me say without hesitation or qualification, we, as Americans, are most appreciative of your many gestures of good will and generosity toward us.
Mr. Prime Minister, though the United States is 200 years old this year, it is still a new country in spirit, in outlook, in aspirations. And it would be my observation, so is Australia. Both Australia and the United States were frontier countries with vast open spaces, abundant natural resources. These factors influenced the way our nations developed and the way we moved in similar directions.
We also share important values and vital institutions. The British traditions of individual civil liberties and the rule of law were ingrained in both your people as well as in ours. Each of us created our own governmental institutions, influenced by the British parliamentary system. The United States and Australia are both federations of states founded originally as separate colonies. Each recognizes the limits of power of the central government.
Such close parallels in the development of our two countries have made Americans think of Australians as being like us, and we hope that this feeling is reciprocated. Obviously, Americans feel very much at home in Australia and with Australians. Nonetheless, Mr. Prime Minister, we fully recognize that Australia has its own interests, its own perceptions of the world, and its own role to play.
Our relations with your country have matured over the years to a new partnership of mutual respect. World War II brought both of us together in a time of trial. In 1951, we joined with New Zealand and signed the ANZUS Pact, or treaty. That treaty symbolizes the fundamental interests that we share. Since World War II, our cooperation in defense and international affairs has been unusually close. We have reinforced each other's security. We have promoted regional stability. And we have solidified the strength of the free world.
Mr. Prime Minister, your public statements and your conversations with me this morning made it very obvious that Australia and the United States are closer together than ever before. We understand, we respect your independent voice in world affairs, and we applaud you for it. On this basis our collaboration has even a greater meaning and a greater value. We both recognize that peace in this interdependent world will require even greater cooperation on economic and social questions.
Advanced democracies, such as our two countries, have crucial roles to play in strengthening the global economy and creating healthy, long-term relations between developed countries and the developing countries. We consider Australia an important partner in all common endeavors in this free world.
Mr. Prime Minister, our talks have enhanced the natural partnership between Australia and the United States. In the coming years, this partnership will make an ever-expanding contribution to peace and progress. I am absolutely certain that our governments will continue to work closely to meet the complex challenges our two nations will face inevitably in the years ahead.
Mr. Prime Minister, I raise my glass to the Queen, to the health of the Prime Minister of Australia, and to the continuation of Australian-American friendship.
  