
    "After three and a half years in office, President Obama is left with a middle-class promise gap where more than 8 million American workers have disappeared. But instead of helping jumpstart our economy, President Obama stifled job creation with his job-killing health care bill. Obamacare is bad law, bad policy, and bad for the economy. Starting on day one, Mitt Romney will work to repeal and replace it." —Andrea Saul, Romney Campaign Spokesperson
President Obama's Middle-Class Promise Gap Has Meant Over 8 Million Fewer Americans Working Than Promised:
Before Taking Office, President Obama's Advisers Predicted The Stimulus Would Lower Unemployment To 5.6% Today — But It's Remained Above 8% For 40 Straight Months. (Christina Romer and Jared Bernstein, "The Job Impact Of The American Recovery And Reinvestment Plan," 1/9/09)


    President Obama, On His Advisers' Stimulus Predictions: "The American People Can See Exactly What This Plan Will Mean For Their Families, Their Communities, And Our Economy." OBAMA: "I asked my nominee for Chair of the Council of Economic Advisers, Dr. Christina Romer, and the Vice President-Elect's Chief Economic Adviser, Dr. Jared Bernstein, to conduct a rigorous analysis of this plan and come up with projections of how many jobs it will create — and what kind of jobs they will be. Today, I am releasing a report of their findings so that the American people can see exactly what this plan will mean for their families, their communities, and our economy." (President-Elect Barack Obama, The President Elect's Radio Address, 1/10/09)
  

If President Obama Had Kept His Promise And Lowered The Unemployment Rate To 5.6%, 8.4 Million More Americans Would Be Working Today. (Jobs Calculator, Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, Accessed 7/2/12)
Why Has The Obama Economy Failed To Create The Jobs Promised? Obamacare Is Stifling Job Creation And Threatening To Move Jobs Overseas:
Nearly Three-Quarters Of Small-Business Owners Blame Obamacare For Impeding Job Creation. "As part of the explanation for the general economic pessimism, 78 percent of small businesses believe that taxation, regulation and legislation from Washington make it harder for businesses to hire more employees — and 74 percent blame the recent health care reforms passed by the Obama administration for creating an impediment to job creation." (Tim Mak, "Chamber Poll: Small Biz Blames D.C.," Politico, 1/18/12)
Obamacare Contains "The Largest Tax Increase Since 1993." "Keep in mind that Mr. Obama has already signed the largest tax increase since 1993. While everyone focuses on the Bush tax rates that expire after 2012, other tax increases are already set to hit the economy thanks to the 2010 Affordable Care Act." (Editorial, "Taxes Upon Taxes Upon...," The Wall Street Journal, 7/11/11)


    The Nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office Estimated That Obamacare Will Raise Approximately $500 Billion In Taxes Over Its First 10 Years. (CBO Director Douglas W. Elmendorf, Testimony, U.S. House Of Representatives, 3/30/11)
  

Obamacare Could Force Businesses In The Medical Device Industry To Shift More Than 40,000 Jobs Overseas. "The medical device industry says it could lose 10 percent of its U.S. workforce because of a tax created by healthcare reform. The Advanced Medical Technology Association (AdvaMed) released a report Wednesday that says device-makers might ship 43,000 jobs overseas once the tax takes effect in 2013." (Sam Baker, "Device-Makers Say Tax Will Cost 43,000 US Jobs," The Hill, 9/7/11)
"Diana Furchtgott-Roth, A Senior Fellow At The Hudson Institute, Said Device Firms Are Already Moving Their Operations To Other Countries And That The Trend Will Accelerate If The Device Tax Is Left In Place." (Sam Baker, "Device-Makers Say Tax Will Cost 43,000 US Jobs," The Hill, 9/7/11)
  