
    President Bush to Nominate Seven Individuals and Appoint Eight to Serve in His Administration
President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate seven individuals and his intention to appoint eight individuals to serve in his administration.
The President intends to nominate Joaquin F. Blaya to be a Member of the Broadcasting Board of Governors for the remainder of a three-year term expiring August 13, 2002 and an additional term expiring August 13, 2005. Blaya is the Chairman and CEO of Radio Unica Communications Corporation in Miami, Florida. He is also the Founder of the Copa Ericsson, a series of professional tennis tournaments in Latin America. Blaya was the Chief Executive Office and Member of the Board of Directors of Telemundo Group from 1992 to 1995. From 1987 to 1992, he was with Univision Holdings, Inc., first as Manager of the Eastern Division, then as President and a Member of the Board of Directors. From 1973 to 1988, Blaya was the General Manager of WLTV -- Channel 23, the largest Spanish-language television station in the United States. Blaya emigrated to the United States in 1970.
The President intends to nominate Juanita Alicia Vasquez-Gardner of Texas, to be a Member of the Board of Trustees of the Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation as the state court representative, for the remainder of a six-year term expiring December 10, 2003.
The President intends to nominate Robert Maynard Grubbs to be United States Marshal for the Eastern District of Michigan. Grubbs has been with the Michigan State Police since 1977, where he has been promoted through the ranks to First Lieutenant. He is a graduate of Central High School in Detroit.
The President intends to nominate Johnny Mack Brown to be United States Marshal for the District of South Carolina. Brown is currently the President of JMB of the Upstate, Inc., a law enforcement consulting company in Greenville, South Carolina. From 1977 to 2001, he was Sheriff of the County of Greenville, South Carolina. He earned a bachelor's degree and master's degree from the University of South Carolina.
The President intends to nominate Denny Wade King to be United States Marshal for the Middle District of Tennessee. King has served with the Tennessee Department of Safety since 1974, and he has been promoted through the ranks to the rank of Commissioner. He earned an associate's degree from Walter State Community College.
The President intends to appoint Lyle Richard Brown to be United States Commissioner and Presiding Officer of the Upper Colorado River Commission representing Colorado, New Mexico, Utah and Wyoming. He is a partner with the law firm of Bratton and McClow in Gunnison, Colorado, where he has had an extensive water law practice. He has previously served as Colorado's representative on the Upper Colorado River Commission and as a member of the Colorado Water Conservation Board. Brown earned an undergraduate degree from Western State College and a law degree from the University of Colorado.
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the National Cancer Advisory Board:
Public Representatives:
John Edward Niederhuber of Wisconsin for the remainder of a six-year term expiring March 9, 2004, and upon appointment will designate him Chairman for a two-year term.
Marlys Jane Popma of Iowa for the remainder of a six-year term expiring March 9, 2008.
Franklyn Grenfel Pendergast of Minnesota for the remainder of a six-year term expiring March 9, 2008.
Science/Environmental Carcinogens Representatives:
Moon Shao-Chuang Chen, Jr., of Ohio for the remainder of a six-year term expiring March 9, 2008.
Lydia Ryan of Georgia for the remainder of a six-year term expiring March 9, 2008.
Science Representatives:
Kenneth Harvey Cowan of Nebraska for the remainder of a six-year term expiring March 9, 2008.
Jean Bayhi deKernion of California for the remainder of a six-year term expiring March 9, 2008.
  