
    VICE PRESIDENT PENCE: Well, good afternoon. Members of the Cabinet, distinguished members of Congress, and all these incredible representatives of American business from all 50 states, and our honored guests, on behalf of the President and the First Family, welcome to the White House. (Applause.)
And thanks to the leadership of a President who believes in American manufacturing, welcome to Made in America Week here in our Nation's Capital. (Applause.)
It's the greatest privilege of my life to serve as Vice President to a President who always puts America First and puts American manufacturing first.
Our President knows that America is a nation of dreamers and doers, a nation of producers and growers and makers. And since the very first day of this administration, we've taken decisive action to promote and protect what he calls those three beautiful words: Made in America. (Applause.)
In fact, this President has signed more laws slashing through federal red tape than any President in American history. (Applause.)
Under President Trump's leadership, we've been fighting for trade that's both free and fair so that American businesses and American workers can compete and win with companies anywhere in the world. In fact, as we were just talking down the hallway, just last month, thanks to the President's leadership, American beef is now being shipped to China for the first time in 13 years. (Applause.)
We've been unleashing American-made energy, rolling back the Clean Power Plan, approving the Keystone and Dakota pipelines. And when he did so, President Donald Trump took executive action to make sure that new pipelines in America would be built by American workers using American steel. (Applause.)
Thanks to the President's leadership, American manufacturers haven't been this optimistic in more than two decades. And the confidence of American farmers is soaring to near-record levels, and we're going to continue to fight every day to ensure that our country continues to make the best machines, grow the best food, and design the best technology because President Donald Trump knows that Made in America will Make America Great Again. (Applause.)
So with gratitude for his leadership and admiration for his unwavering confidence in the boundless capacity of the American people, it is now my high honor and distinct privilege to introduce to all of you, the 45th President of the United States of America, President Donald Trump. (Applause.)
  