
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate three individuals and his designation of one individual to serve in his administration.
The President intends to nominate Marie T. Huhtala to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Malaysia. A career member of the Senior Foreign Service, she has been Deputy Chief of Mission in Thailand since 1998. From 1996 to 1998, she was Director of the Office of Burma, Cambodia, Laos, Thailand and Vietnamese Affairs, and she was Principal Officer in Quebec from 1992 to 1995. Huhtala has completed numerous assignments both abroad and in Washington, D.C. including Chief of the East Asian and Pacific Division for the Office of Career Development and Assignments in the Bureau of Human Resources and Political Officer in Hong Kong. Originally from California, she is a graduate of Santa Clara University and received a Master's degree from Laval University.
The President intends to nominate Mary Ann Solberg to be Deputy Director of National Drug Control Policy. She is currently the Executive Director of the Coalition of Health Communities and Executive Director of the Troy Community Coalition for the Prevention of Drug and Alcohol Abuse in Troy, Michigan. From 1977 to 1991, she held various positions with Troy Adult and Community Education including Director and Coordinator of Student Recruitment, Department Publicity and Women's Concerns. Solberg has served as a member of numerous Advisory, Civic and Community Organizations. She was a member of the Advisory Committee to Develop a National Prevention System at the National Center for Substance Abuse Prevention and the Advisory Committee for the National Ad Council's Community Anti-Drug Campaign. In 1998 she was named to the President's Commission on Drug-Free Communities and was elected Co-chairperson. A Michigan native, she is a graduate of Western Michigan University.
The President intends to nominate Scott M. Burns to be Deputy Director for State and Local Affairs in the Office of National Drug Control Policy. He is presently serving his fourth elected term as Iron County Attorney in Cedar City, Utah. Burns is a Member of the White House Committee on Illegal Narcotics Interdiction; he founded the Multi-County Narcotics Task Force and serves as Chairman of the Southern Utah Law Enforcement Agencies Board. He is an Adjunct Professor in the Criminal Justice Department at Southern Utah University and an Instructor as well as Member of the Board of Directors for the Utah Police Academy. He is a graduate of Southern Utah University and received his J.D. from California Western School of Law.
The President has designated David Curtis Williams to be Acting Inspector General of the Department of Housing and Urban Development. He has served as Inspector General for Tax Administration at the Department of Treasury since 1999.
  