
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate three individuals and appoint one individual to serve in his Administration:
The President intends to nominate Roel C. Campos, of Texas, to be a Member of the Securities and Exchange Commission for the remainder of a five-year term expiring June 5, 2010. Mr. Campos has served as a Member of the Securities and Exchange Commission since 2002. Prior to serving on the Commission, he was Senior Vice President and General Counsel of El Dorado Communications, Inc. in Houston, Texas. Earlier in his career, Mr. Campos served as an Assistant U.S. Attorney in the District of California. He also practiced corporate, securities and banking law in California. Mr. Campos received his bachelor's degree from the U.S. Air Force Academy, his master's degree from the University of California at Los Angeles, and his J.D. from Harvard University.
The President intends to nominate Martin J. Gruenberg, of Maryland, to be a Member and Vice Chairperson of the Board of Directors of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, for the remainder of a six-year term expiring December 27, 2006. Mr. Gruenberg currently serves as Senior Democratic Counsel for the Senate Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs. He previously served as Staff Director of the Subcommittee on International Finance and Monetary Policy of the Senate Banking Committee. Earlier in his career, Mr. Gruenberg was a Professional Staff Member for the Subcommittee on Economic Stabilization for the House Committee on Banking, Finance and Urban Affairs. He received his bachelor's degree from Princeton University and his J.D. from Case Western Reserve Law School.
The President intends to nominate Annette L. Nazareth, of the District of Columbia, to be a Member of the Securities and Exchange Commission, for the remainder of a five-year term expiring June 5, 2007. Ms. Nazareth currently serves as Director of the Division of Market Regulation for the Securities and Exchange Commission. She previously served as Senior Counsel to the Chairman. Prior to her work on the Commission, Ms. Nazareth served as Managing Director of Salomon Smith Barney. Earlier in her career, she was Senior Vice President of Lehman Brothers, Inc. Ms. Nazareth received her bachelor's degree from Brown University and her J.D. from Columbia University School of Law.
The President intends to appoint Christian Israel, of Virginia, to be Coordinator for International Intellectual Property Enforcement at the Department of Commerce. Mr. Israel currently serves as Deputy Chief of Staff at the Department of Commerce. He previously served as Deputy Assistant Secretary for Technology Policy. Prior to joining the Department of Commerce, Mr. Israel was Deputy Director of International Public Policy for Time Warner, Inc. He received his bachelor's degree from the University of Kansas and his master's degree from The George Washington University.
  