
    HOUSTON, Texas — Yesterday, news broke that the New York Times had omitted Cruz's best-selling book A Time for Truth from their best-seller list.
Bookscan, a subscription service that tracks the vast majority of book sales in America, is usually a reliable indicator of the New York Times bestseller list. For example, this week's #1 and #2 books on Bookscan are also #1 and #2 on the NYT list. But the #3 book, Cruz's A Time for Truth, has been omitted altogether from the top twenty spots on the New York Times list.
This is despite the fact that Cruz's book sold more copies last week than 18 of the 20 books on the list.
Their decision to blackball Cruz's book suggests that the Times very much does not want people to read the book.
The Times's initial explanation was cryptic: "We have uniform standards that we apply to our best seller list, which includes an analysis of book sales that goes beyond simply the number of books sold."
When the Times was roundly condemned for its obvious political bias, they issued a revised statement: "In the case of this book, the overwhelming preponderance of evidence was that sales were limited to strategic bulk purchases."
This statement is false, and the Times knows it.
There were no "strategic bulk purchases." Cruz spent last week on a nation-wide book tour, signing copies of his book at multiple locations. Booksellers at each event had long lines—sometimes over 400 people per event.
Pictures from some of these signings may be found here: Arlington, TX, Katy, TX, and Sioux City, IA.
Simultaneously, Cruz's book was ranked the #1 political seller on Amazon, and made it as high as the #9 overall seller (across all categories, including fiction).
"The Times is presumably embarrassed by having their obvious partisan bias called out. But their response—alleging 'strategic bulk purchases'—is a blatant falsehood," said Cruz campaign spokesperson Rick Tyler. "The evidence is directly to the contrary. In leveling this false charge, the Times has tried to impugn the integrity of Senator Cruz and of his publisher Harper Collins."
"We call on the Times, release your so-called 'evidence.' Demonstrate that your charge isn't simply a naked fabrication, designed to cover up your own partisan agenda. And, if you cannot do so, then issue a public apology to Senator Cruz and Harper Collins editor Adam Bellow for making false charges against them."
  