
    "The White House description of Donald Trump's speech Thursday in Warsaw was simply, 'Remarks by President Trump to the People of Poland.' In truth, Mr. Trump's remarks were directed at the people of the world. Six months into his first term of office, Mr. Trump finally offered the core of what could become a governing philosophy. It is a determined and affirmative defense of the Western tradition."

Trump's Defining Speech
Editorial
Wall Street Journal
July 7, 2017
The White House description of Donald Trump's speech Thursday in Warsaw was simply, "Remarks by President Trump to the People of Poland." In truth, Mr. Trump's remarks were directed at the people of the world. Six months into his first term of office, Mr. Trump finally offered the core of what could become a governing philosophy. It is a determined and affirmative defense of the Western tradition.
...
But—and this shocked Washington—the speech aimed higher. Like the best presidential speeches, it contained affirmations of ideas and principles and related them to the current political moment. "Americans, Poles and the nations of Europe value individual freedom and sovereignty," he said. This was more than a speech, though. It was an argument. One might even call it an apologia for the West.
...
But the speech's most provocative argument was about our way of life. It came when he described how a million Poles stood with Pope John Paul II in Victory Square in 1979 to resist Soviet rule by chanting, "We want God!"
"With that powerful declaration of who you are," Mr. Trump said, "you came to understand what to do and how to live."
This is a warning to the West and a call to action. By remembering the Poles' invocation of God, Mr. Trump is clearly aligning himself with the same warning issued to Europe some years ago by Cardinal Joseph Ratzinger, who became Pope Benedict.
...
Mr. Trump is taking a clear stand against the kind of gauzy globalism and vague multiculturalism represented by the worldview of, say, Barack Obama and most contemporary Western intellectuals, who are willing, even eager, to concede the argument to critics of the West's traditions.
...
It was an important and, we hope, a defining speech—for the Trump Presidency and for Donald Trump himself.
Read the full editorial here.
  