
    "Throughout his time in office, President Obama has repeatedly demonstrated how misplaced his priorities are by focusing on his own liberal agenda instead of job creation. But nowhere has this trend been more apparent than in President Obama's failure to even meet with his own jobs council for 191 days. With so many middle-class families struggling in the Obama economy, Americans deserve a president who will put job creation first." — Amanda Henneberg, Romney Campaign Spokesperson
President Obama Hasn't Made Time For His Jobs Council For 191 Days  — But He's Made Time For Many Other Activities:
President Obama Held His Last Jobs Council Meeting 191 Days Ago. (President Barack Obama, Remarks, Washington, DC, 1/17/12)


    White House Press Secretary Jay Carney, On President Obama's Missing Jobs Council: "There's No Specific Reason, Except The President Has Obviously Got A Lot On His Plate." "'There's no specific reason, except the president has obviously got a lot on his plate, but he continues to solicit and receive advice from numerous folks outside the administration about the economy about ideas that he can act on with Congress or administratively to help the economy grow and help create jobs,' Carney said in the White House's first on-the-record response to a POLITICO story noting the hiatus." (Josh Gerstein, "White House: Obama's Plate Too Full For Jobs Council," Politico, 7/18/12)
  

President Obama Has Attended 117 Campaign Fundraisers Since His Last Jobs Council Meeting. (National Journal's "Daybook," 7/26/12)
President Obama Has Played 10 Rounds Of Golf Since His Last Jobs Council Meeting. (PolitiFact.com, 7/19/12)
And What's The Result Of President Obama's Misplaced Priorities? Dismal Job Creation And A Faltering Economy:
CBS News: We Are Experiencing "The Worst Economic Recovery America Has Ever Had." CBS' SCOTT PELLEY: "Good evening. This is the worst economic recovery America has ever had. We'd been looking for hopeful signs, but today the chairman of the Federal Reserve threw a cold splash of reality on those hopes." ("CBS Evening News," 7/17/12)
"The Weakest Job-Adding Quarter In Two Years..." CNBC's JOHN HARWOOD: "Just 80,000 jobs added in the month of June, Michelle. 8.2% unemployment rate, unchanged, 12.7 million unemployed people, also unchanged. That makes the second quarter the weakest job-adding quarter in two years, an average of 75,000 jobs added in the second quarter of this year." (CNBC's "Squawk Box," 7/6/12)
"The American Job Machine Has Jammed" And Has Settled Into A "Summer Slump For The Third Year In A Row." "The American job machine has jammed. Again. The economy added only 80,000 jobs in June, the government said Friday, erasing any doubt that the United States is in a summer slump for the third year in a row." (Paul Wiseman, "US Economy Adds 80,000 Jobs In Another Weak Month," The Associated Press, 7/7/12)
Economists Have Begun To Worry About The Weakening Job Market And Slowing Recovery. "When the job market began to crack in April, most economists said they weren't worried about the recovery. They're worried now. As the recovery slows, optimism is giving way to caution, with undercurrents of something darker." (Tim Mullaney and Paul Davidson, "Fragile Economic Recovery Shows Growing Cracks," USA Today, 7/22/12)
But It's No Surprise President Obama Hasn't Been Focused On Meeting With Job Creators — He Thinks Americans Didn't Build Their Own Businesses:
President Obama: "If You've Got A Business, You Didn't Build That. Somebody Else Made That Happen." OBAMA: "Somebody helped to create this unbelievable American system that we have that allowed you to thrive. Somebody invested in roads and bridges. If you've got a business, you didn't build that. Somebody else made that happen. The Internet didn't get invented on its own. Government research created the Internet so that all the companies could make money off the Internet." (President Barack Obama, Remarks, Roanoke, VA, 7/13/12)
  