
    The Rudy Giuliani Presidential Committee today announced it will launch radio ads in New Hampshire and Iowa on Tuesday entitled: "Out of Control," "Will Do" and "Garbage Can."
"Today's ads once again make clear Mayor Giuliani is the true fiscal conservative in this race with the track record to back it up, not just empty rhetoric," said Director of Strategy Brent Seaborn. ‘"Out of Control,' ‘Will Do' and ‘Garbage Can' — which will air across New Hampshire and Iowa — are the first of many ads our campaign will release in the months to come."
"Out of Control" highlights Rudy Giuliani's accomplishments as Mayor of New York City including reducing crime and cutting the welfare rolls. Giuliani's 12 Commitments to the American People, specifically his commitment to restore fiscal discipline, cut wasteful Washington spending and reform the tax code, are the focus of "Will Do" and "Garbage Can."
Scripts and links to audio are below.
Script for "Out of Control" (Radio 60 seconds):
AUDIO LINK HERE
GIULIANI: Every promise I made running as Mayor of New York City they said couldn't be done… said I couldn't cut crime… New York City was the crime capital of the America… can't be done.
VOICE OVER: Under Rudy Giuliani's leadership crime in New York City dropped 56%.
GIULIANI: New York City was the welfare capital of America… 1.1 million people on welfare. You can't cut welfare… can't be done.
VOICE OVER: Welfare rolls went down by a staggering 58%.
GIULIANI: They said we couldn't reduce taxes in New York. They said you couldn't get control of spending. That's impossible.
VOICE OVER: Rudy Giuliani turned a 2.3 billion dollar deficit into a multi-billion dollar surplus and cut or eliminated 23 taxes.
GIULIANI: My focus when I ran for Mayor of New York City was on the future, and it will be in this campaign. Leadership is about what we can do, what we can accomplish, never taking "No" for an answer. This is all about how America can grow, how America can get stronger, how America can be the country that realizes all the potential we know we have.
VOICE OVER: Paid for by Rudy Giuliani Presidential Committee Incorporated.
Visit joinrudy2008.com
GIULIANI: I'm Rudy Giuliani and I approve this message
Script for "Will Do" (Radio 60 seconds):
AUDIO LINK HERE
VOICE OVER: Here is Rudy Giuliani talking about his 12 Commitments to the American People; including his commitment to restore fiscal discipline and cut wasteful Washington spending.
GIULIANI: This is what I did in New York City. I restored fiscal discipline and I held spending in New York City, a city that was out of control in spending, to less then the rate of inflation and the growth of the population.
VOICE OVER: Leading George Will to say Rudy Giuliani's eight years as Mayor were "the most successful episode of conservative governance in this country in the last 50 years."
GIULIANI: We will require agency heads to present 5 to up to as much as 20% reductions in their annual budget. It's the only way to reduce spending. And we'll make sure we do away with earmarks in which anonymous spending is done in the billions and billions and billions of dollars. I will restore fiscal discipline and cut wasteful Washington spending.
VOICE OVER: To find out more about all twelve of Rudy Giuliani's Commitments to the American People visit joinrudy2008.com. Paid for by Rudy Giuliani Presidential Committee Incorporated.
GIULIANI: I am Rudy Giuliani, and I approve this message.
Script for "Garbage Can" (Radio 60 seconds):
AUDIO LINK HERE
VOICE OVER: Here's Rudy Giuliani, talking about his 12 Commitments to the American People, including his commitment to cut taxes and reform the tax code.
GIULIANI: I believe that you collect more money from lower taxes then you collect from higher taxes. I believe in it because I saw it work.
I was given a report, shortly after I was Mayor-Elect, and the report was all of the things that should be done to take New York City out of the deficit. The biggest ones were raise taxes. They asked me what I was going to do with the report, and I said I'm going to throw it in the garbage. It doesn't make any sense. It's exactly why we are in the trouble we are in, and then I went ahead and reduced taxes. I reduced the rate for income tax by about 23-24 percent. The revenues from the income tax went up 40 percent. That's what we have to do. I will cut taxes and reform the tax code because I realize that that's how you stimulate an economy.
VOICE OVER: Paid for by Rudy Giuliani Presidential Committee Incorporated.
Visit joinrudy2008.com
GIULIANI: I'm Rudy Giuliani and I approve this message.
  