
    "Millions of Americans are struggling in President Obama's 'zombie economy.' But rather than focusing on pro-growth policies that harness market forces and encourage innovation, President Obama pushed through a disastrous health care law that is holding our economy back. From Day One, Mitt Romney will deliver a new direction that spurs hiring by repealing and replacing Obamacare." —Amanda Henneberg, Romney Campaign Spokesperson
President Obama's Economy Is Stuck In Neutral, Causing Many Experts To Worry About A "Zombie Economy":
CNBC Headline: "Signs We Are Approaching A Zombie Economy" (Patti Domm, "Signs We Are Approaching A Zombie Economy," CNBC, 7/6/12)
"The American Job Machine Has Jammed" And Has Settled Into A "Summer Slump For The Third Year In A Row." "The American job machine has jammed. Again. The economy added only 80,000 jobs in June, the government said Friday, erasing any doubt that the United States is in a summer slump for the third year in a row." (Paul Wiseman, "US Economy Adds 80,000 Jobs In Another Weak Month," The Associated Press, 7/7/12)
Last Month, U.S. Employers "Hired At A Dismal Pace." "U.S. employers hired at a dismal pace in June, raising pressure on the Federal Reserve to do more to boost the economy and further imperiling President Barack Obama's chances of reelection in November." (Jason Lange, "U.S. Hiring Stuck In Low Gear In June," Reuters, 7/6/12)
"The Weakest Job-Adding Quarter In Two Years..." HARWOOD: "Just 80,000 jobs added in the month of June, Michelle. 8.2% unemployment rate, unchanged, 12.7 million unemployed people, also unchanged. That makes the second quarter the weakest job-adding quarter in two years, an average of 75,000 jobs added in the second quarter of this year." (CNBC's "Squawk Box," 7/6/12)
What's Helping Create The "Zombie Economy"? President Obama's Job-Destroying Health Care Law:
CNBC Headline: "Small Business On Obamacare: No Reason To Hire Or Invest" (Patricia Orsini, "Small Business On Obamacare: No Reason To Hire Or Invest," CNBC, 6/28/12)                                                      
Nearly Three-Quarters Of Small-Business Owners Blame Obamacare For Hurting Job Creation. "As part of the explanation for the general economic pessimism, 78 percent of small businesses believe that taxation, regulation and legislation from Washington make it harder for businesses to hire more employees — and 74 percent blame the recent health care reforms passed by the Obama administration for creating an impediment to job creation." (Tim Mak, "Chamber Poll: Small Biz Blames D.C.," Politico, 1/18/12)
National Businesses Will Be Forced To "Shift Workers To Part-Time To Avoid" Obamacare's New Rules And Regulations. "Jim Amos, CEO and chairman of Tasti D-Lite, a frozen yogurt franchise that operates in 14 states as well as globally, is certain of one thing: The ruling will hinder growth in the franchise space. 'It's going to force franchisees to shift workers to part-time to avoid the 50-employee threshold,' he said. 'It will keep new owners and new openings on the sideline.'" (Patricia Orsini, "Small Business On Obamacare: No Reason To Hire Or Invest," CNBC, 6/28/12)
"That Concern, That Businesses Will Not Increase The Number Of Employees If It Means They Will Have To Take On More Health-Care Costs, Is Top Of Mind For Many Business Owners." (Patricia Orsini, "Small Business On Obamacare: No Reason To Hire Or Invest," CNBC, 6/28/12)
International Franchise Association's Steve Caldeira: "The Impending Costs Of Health Care Do Not Give Business Owners Confidence To Open That Extra Store Or To Hire More People..." "'This decision sustains the uncertainty they currently have,' says Steve Caldeira, president and CEO of the International Franchise Association. 'The impending costs of health care do not give business owners confidence to open that extra store or to hire more people and create the economic output our country needs.'" (Patricia Orsini, "Small Business On Obamacare: No Reason To Hire Or Invest," CNBC, 6/28/12)
CNBC's Jim Cramer, On The Supreme Court Decision Upholding Obamacare: "This Is Just A Terrible Decision People For The Possibility Of More Employment For This Year." CRAMER: "At the same time, I think this is just a terrible decision people for the possibility of more employment for this year. Look, this is not a great thing for small business and I think that the market is afraid that small business will lay off people and I think that the market is taking it overall right in that this is just another reason why you should not hire and another reason why you should fire." (CNBC's "Squawk On The Street," 6/28/12)
  