
    STATEMENT OF ADMINISTRATION POLICY
(House Rules)(Rep. Cheney, R-WY, and five cosponsors)
The Administration strongly supports H.R. 4040, the Advancing Telehealth Beyond COVID-19 Act of 2022. This bill would build on the experience and best practices learned during the pandemic, and modernize our health care system to expand access to quality, affordable care, especially in rural and underserved communities.
During the pandemic, millions of Medicare beneficiaries have relied on telehealth not only for COVID-19 diagnosis and treatment, but also to safely and conveniently access preventative and routine health care, monitor chronic conditions, and seek mental health care. The expansion of telehealth during the COVID-19 public health emergency was vital for people with Medicare to maintain access to care they might otherwise have skipped or been unable to access at all due to distance and time, lack of access to transportation, or safety considerations. The share of Medicare telehealth visits increased 63-fold in 2020 alone, especially benefiting patients in rural areas and those seeing behavioral health providers.
It is important to continue the availability of expanded telehealth to meet the needs of Medicare beneficiaries and health care providers. H.R. 4040 would allow for many critical flexibilities to remain through 2024, including for: 1) Medicare beneficiaries to receive telehealth services from any location, including their homes; 2) more types of medical professionals and facilities like rural health clinics and federally qualified health centers to provide telehealth; and 3) Medicare beneficiaries to receive certain services like evaluation and management services, behavioral health services, and substance use disorder services via audio-only technology.
As we emerge from the worst stages of the COVID-19 pandemic, H.R. 4040 will ensure that the Medicare program continually adapts to provide convenient, quality, accessible, and equitable health care. The Administration urges the House to pass the Advancing Telehealth Beyond COVID-19 Act of 2022, and looks forward to working with Congress to improve health care access and quality for all Americans.
  