
    On July 5, 2001 the President nominated Robert S. Mueller to be the Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
Recently, he served as the Acting Deputy Attorney General for the Department of Justice from January through May 2001. On October 7, 1999, Robert Mueller was confirmed by the Senate as the United States Attorney for the Northern District of California in San Francisco. Prior to joining the Northern District of California in 1998, Mr. Mueller was Chief of the Homicide Section of the United States Attorney's Office for the District of Colombia where he had served since 1995 as Senior Litigation Counsel in the Homicide Section until assuming the position as Chief in 1997.
In 1990, Mr. Mueller was named Assistant Attorney General in charge of the Criminal Division of the U.S. Department of Justice by former President Bush and was responsible for developing and supervising the enforcement of federal criminal law. He supervised the Noriega and Gotti prosecutions, the Pan Am 103 investigation and helped develop the Justice Department's policies on corporate sentencing guidelines, computer crime investigations, and health care and money laundering prosecutions.
Prior to assuming the position of Assistant Attorney General, Mr. Mueller was an assistant to Attorney General Richard Thornburgh in the Department of Justice, and from 1986 to 1987 he served as United States Attorney for the District of Massachusetts.
Mr. Mueller has held various positions as a prosecutor and supervisor and has also had experience in the private practice of law.
Mr. Mueller served as an officer in the United States Marine Corps for three years, including one year in the Third Marine Division, Vietnam. He received the Bronze Star, two navy commendation Medals, the Purple Heart and the Vietnamese Cross of Gallantry.
He received his Bachelor of Arts degree in 1966 from Princeton University and a Master's degree in International Studies from New York University. He received his Juris Doctor degree from the University of Virginia School of Law in 1973, where he served on the Law Review. He was born on August 7, 1944 and is married with two children. He currently resides in San Francisco, California.
  