
    STATEMENT OF ADMINISTRATION POLICY
(House Rules)(Rep. Dingell, D-MI, and 49 cosponsors)
The Administration supports passage of H.R. 2467, the PFAS Action Act. Aggressive efforts to analyze the impact of per-and polyfluoroalkyl substances ("PFAS") on human health and the environment are necessary to meet the challenges associated with developing regulations to reduce exposure to these substances and improve public health. The Administration is pressing forward with targeted actions in its regulatory agenda to achieve this goal, and looks forward to working with the sponsors on this critical issue.
Addressing these "forever chemicals" remains one of the most complex environmental challenges of our day due to the number of chemicals, the impacts on human health, and the widespread use of PFAS and their ubiquity in the environment. PFAS are widely used for their resistance to grease, water, oil, and heat. They are most well-known for their applications in stain-resistant carpeting, water-resistant clothing, flame-retardant textiles and furniture, non-stick and grease-resistant food contact materials (e.g., cookware and fast food packaging), and firefighting foam. PFAS do not break down easily in the environment or the human body due to the strong carbon-fluorine bond. Certain PFAS have been found to be associated with adverse human health impacts. The science surrounding these chemicals continues to evolve at a rapid pace and this Administration is working closely with our state, local, and Tribal partners to take the appropriate actions necessary to phase out the chemicals that are found to be toxic to human health and the environment and to continue to develop safe alternatives for use in life-safety applications like firefighting.
This Administration is committed to keeping pace with the best available science to protect public health. We have taken down the politically compromised toxicity assessment for perfluorobutane sulfonic acid (PFBS) and provided an update that upholds the tenets of scientific integrity and can be relied upon for further regulatory action. We are moving forward with drafting a proposed national primary drinking water standard for perfluorooctanoic acid (PFOA) and perfluorooctanesulfonic acid (PFOS) and studying the presence and impact of 29 other priority PFAS in our drinking water. We continue to evaluate the appropriateness of identifying certain PFAS as hazardous substances under the nation's Superfund law—the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act—and continue to assess the impacts of exposure to these chemicals from common consumer products and search for alternatives to these substances in fire-fighting foam and equipment.
H.R. 2467 supports many of the scientific and regulatory actions that are already underway and demonstrates the commitment across the branches of government to take on this challenge. We support the intent of the PFAS Action Act to address PFAS across media. The Administration, led by the Environmental Protection Agency, is working to collaborate on cross-cutting strategies; advance new science; develop coordinated policies, regulations and communications; and continue engagement with affected states, Tribes, communities and stakeholders, and H.R. 2467 would further enhance these efforts. The Administration looks forward to working with the Congress to ensure that these actions are taken in a thoughtful, transparent, and timely manner and are supported by the best science to restore confidence in our efforts to protect the health of the American people.
  