
    Verona, PA - Former Senator Rick Santorum (R-PA) today announced five new additions to his expanding Iowa campaign team.
Steven Munoz will implement the Santorum campaign's Ames Straw Poll strategy. Previously, Munoz served as statewide coordinator for the Gresham Barrett for Governor (R-SC) campaign and as executive assistant for Stovall Witte for Congress (R-SC). Munoz is a graduate of The Citadel, The Military College of South Carolina in Charleston, SC, where he served as class president for three years, as well as being awarded the Reuben B. Pitts III Memorial Award and the Algernon Sydney Sullivan Award.
Betsy DeFord will serve as a Field Representative for the Santorum campaign in Iowa. DeFord previously worked for the National Right to Work Committee as well as on Senator Rand Paul's successful campaign for U.S. Senate in Kentucky.
Jake Braunger will serve as a Field Representative for the Santorum campaign in Iowa. Braunger previously served as a Ronald Reagan Fellow for the Barry Goldwater Institute and for Rep. Steve King (R-IA). Braunger is a graduate of Iowa State University and holds a MA from the University of Denver.
Zack Garrison will serve as a Field Representative for the Santorum campaign in Iowa. Prior to joining the Santorum campaign, Garrison worked on Governor Nikki Haley's successful campaign for Governor of South Carolina as well as Alan Wilson's successful campaign for South Carolina Attorney General.
Johnny Sublett will serve as a Field Representative for the Santorum campaign in Iowa. Prior to joining the Rick Santorum for President campaign, Sublett worked on the successful campaign of Congressman Tim Scott (R-SC).
"I am excited about the terrific additions of Steven, Betsy, Jake, Zack, and Johnny to our Iowa team," said Senator Santorum. "I am looking forward to working with them as we build the infrastructure and relationships necessary to win the First-in-the-Nation Caucus this February."
The hires noted are in addition to Senator Santorum's existing Iowa campaign team: Senior Advisors Nick Ryan and Jill Latham, State Director Cody Brown, State Coalitions Director Jamie Johnson, and Field Representative Lucas Draisey.
  