
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Romney Press Shop (857) 288-6390
Boston, MA - Today, Governor Mitt Romney announced that Oakland County Sheriff Mike Bouchard has endorsed his campaign for President of the United States. Sheriff Bouchard will serve as a Co-Chair of the Romney for President campaign in Michigan.
In announcing the support of Sheriff Bouchard, Governor Romney said, "For over twenty years, Sheriff Bouchard has faithfully served and protected the people of Michigan. Using his experience as an elected official, a sheriff, and a parent, he has worked tirelessly to protect Michigan residents by leading the charge to protect our children and keep criminals off the streets. I am proud to earn Sheriff Bouchard's support, and I look forward to working with him during the upcoming campaign."
Sheriff Bouchard will join a Romney for President Michigan team that includes Co-Chairs U.S. Representatives Dave Camp, Pete Hoekstra and Joe Knollenberg, Michigan House Republican Leader Craig DeRoche, as well as Honorary Chairman, former Lt. Governor Dick Posthumus.
With today's announcement, Sheriff Mike Bouchard said, "As a former Governor and a devoted father, Mitt Romney understands the importance of protecting children and our families from predators and criminals. Governor Romney is not afraid to confront challenges facing our country. He recently proposed federal legislation, 'One-Strike, You're Ours,' to crack down on internet predators who seek to harm our most precious asset, our children. I am joining Governor Romney's campaign team because our nation needs a leader like Mitt Romney, a candidate who is willing to stand up and fight to defend families across this nation."
Background On Sheriff Mike Bouchard:
Sheriff Bouchard Has Been A Leader In Michigan For Over 20 Years. In 1999, Bouchard became Sheriff of one of the largest counties in the nation. He oversees 1,200 employees and manages an annual budget in excess of $119 million. Sheriff Bouchard brings the combined experience of 20 years of law enforcement and 20 years as an elected official to the position. Appointed in early 1999 to fill a sudden vacancy, he was returned to office in 2000 with the largest number of votes for any contested candidate in Oakland County. Most recently in 2004, he was re-elected to a four-year term ending in 2009. Among his many honors, Sheriff Bouchard has received the 1996 Michigan Association of Chiefs of Police award for Legislator of the Year, the 1999 Oakland County Leadership Award, and the 2000 Oakland County Domestic Violence Prevention Award. In 2006, he received the Justice for Children Centurion Award as well as the Oakland County Child Abuse and Neglect Council's Circle of Light Award.
  