
    Mr. First Secretary, Mrs. Gierek, ladies and gentlemen:
I am delighted on this occasion to be your guest, along with my son, and we regret that unfortunately Mrs. Ford could not be here, but she will, I am sure, be joining us later.
It is a great pleasure for me to return to this very great country in the center of Europe, a country which is so rich in tradition and so important to the contemporary world. I welcome this opportunity to reaffirm the United States commitment to friendship with Poland. And I am determined to strengthen that friendship.
When we met in Washington last October, Mr. Secretary, you and I pledged our countries to acquire a better knowledge of their respective achievements and values. Both nations can take great satisfaction in progress toward that goal. We have made vitally important advances in our bilateral relations.
This is in keeping with the spirit of the documents that we signed during the First Secretary's visit. And I am pleased to cite the continuing efforts of both sides to increase trade and commerce, the visits and the exchanges between our scientists, industrial and mining specialists, and agricultural experts, and the educational and cultural program which each year enable more Poles and more Americans to know each other and to exchange ideas.
The United States recently presented the World of Franklin and Jefferson Bicentennial exhibition in Warsaw. It vividly depicted America's past and Poland's long and close association with us.
You may remember one of Benjamin Franklin's remarks featured in the exhibition. According to Benjamin Franklin, human felicity is produced not so much by great pieces of good fortune that seldom happen, as by little advantages that occur every day.
We have men and women of great vision in Poland and in America, but we realize that real progress in the relations between countries really comes from the millions who give form as well as substance to the aspirations of their Governments.
Distinguished host, ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to join me in a toast to all Polish and American citizens, scholars, scientists, workers, farmers, writers, musicians, and others, who day-by-day are striving to develop the little advantages so important to the growing friendship between our countries.
At this time, may I offer a toast to you, Mr. Secretary, and to the Polish people.
  