
    Pool Reports by Andrew Restuccia, The Wall Street Journal 



Sent:
Reports:




July 9, 2021 12:37

In-town pool report #1 -- two minutes to the press briefing 
[APP Note: No additional text was included in this report.]


July 9, 202112:42

In-town pool report #2 -- briefing delayed 
The White House just said the press briefing has been delayed by 10 minutes 


July 9, 202112:51

In-town pool report #3 -- briefing begins 
The press briefing began at 12:50 pm 


July 9, 202113:35

In-town pool report #4 -- awaiting Biden EO signing 
The pool was instructed by the White House to leave the press briefing early to gather for POTUS' executive order signing in the State Dining Room. We're currently here waiting 


July 9, 202114:10

In-town pool report #5 — POTUS EO event, plus Russia Qs 
SEE RUSSIA ANSWERS AT BOTTOM
POTUS entered the State Dining Room at 1:48 pm
The event was carried live.
"Let me be clear: capitalism without competition isn't capitalism, it's exploitation," Biden said after calling himself a "proud capitalist."
"Competition works. We know it works. We've seen it works when it exists. Fair competition is what made America the wealthiest, most innovative nation in history," he said.
Some color from the room:
Merrick Garland, Pete Buttigieg, Gina Raimondo, Xavier Becerra and Lina Khan were seated in the front row.
Also spotted in the room: Dan Maffei, Mike Donilon, Anita Dunn, Bharat Ramumurti, Brian Deese and Cecilia Rouse
There were about 40 people seated in the room. None were wearing masks.
POTUS read much of his speech off a teleprompter, but he went off script several times, pausing to recall anecdotes and emphasize various points.
At 2:04, POTUS invited the cabinet secretaries up to the stage and he signed the EO.
POTUS was then asked about the Russia call with Putin — check against transcript
POTUS said he made it "very clear" that when a ransomware attack originates on Russian soil "we expect them to act"
"It went well. I'm optimistic."
Will there be consequences?
"Yes" 


July 9, 202114:18

Resending In-toown pool report #5 -- POTUS EO event, plus russia qs 
RESENDING BECAUSE THE TEXT GOT GARBLED
SEE RUSSIA ANSWERS AT BOTTOM
POTUS entered the State Dining Room at 1:48 pm
The event was carried live.
"Let me be clear: capitalism without competition isn't capitalism, it's exploitation," Biden said after calling himself a "proud capitalist."
"Competition works. We know it works. We've seen it works when it exists. Fair competition is what made America the wealthiest, most innovative nation in history," he said.
Some color from the room: Merrick Garland, Pete Buttigieg, Gina Raimondo, Xavier Becerra and Lina Khan were seated in the front row.
Also spotted in the room: Dan Maffei, Mike Donilon, Anita Dunn, Bharat Ramumurti, Brian Deese and Cecilia Rouse
There were about 40 people seated in the room. None were wearing masks.
POTUS read much of his speech off a teleprompter, but he went off script several times, pausing to recall anecdotes and emphasize various points.
At 2:04, POTUS invited the cabinet secretaries up to the stage and he signed the EO.
POTUS was then asked about the Russia call with Putin — check against transcript
POTUS said he made it "very clear" that when a ransomware attack originates on Russian soil "we expect them to act"
 "It went well. I'm optimistic." Will there be consequences?
"Yes" 


July 9, 202114:21

In-town pool report #6 -- full Russia comments 
As always, check against transcript:
Q: How did Putin respond to your call?
Biden: I made it very clear to him that the United States expects when a ransomware operation is coming from his soil even though it's not sponsored by the state, we expect them to act if we give them enough information to act on who that is. And secondly, we've set up a means of communication now on a regular basis to be able to communicate with one another when each of us thinks something is happening in another country that affects the home country. And so it went well. I'm optimistic.
Q: You said three weeks ago there would be consequences, will there be, Sir?
Biden: Yes
And the guest list at the EO event, per the White House:
In attendance for the remarks and signing:
Attorney General Merrick Garland Secretary of Health and Human Services Xavier Becerra Secretary of Commerce Gina Raimondo Secretary of Transportation Pete Buttigieg Lina Khan, Chair of the Federal Trade Commission Jessica Rosenworcel, Acting Chairwoman of the Federal Communications Commission


July 9, 202115:06

In-town pool report #7 -- POTUS departure 
POTUS, wearing his trademark aviators, walked out of the White House at 3 pm. He waved to reporters, but did not respond to shouted questions about Russia.
Marine One was wheels up at 3:05 pm
Handing off to the travel pool. 




Pool Reports below by Laura Barrón-López, POLITICO 



Sent:
Reports:




July 9, 2021 15:21

Travel-pool #1
POTUS arrived at JBA via Marine One at 3:13pm ET
He briefly stopped for questions with pool
Does it make sense to attack the actual servers that are used to carry out ransomware attacks?
POTUS: "yes"
Are there consequences? What are the consequences for Putin if he doesn't step up on cyber?
"I believe we're going to get cooperation"
He boarded small AF1 at 3:18ET and we're headed to DANG shortly


July 9, 202116:06

Travel pool report #2 
Small AF1 landed at DANG at 4:00pmET
POTUS greeted a service member before getting into motorcade at 4:03pm
and we're rolling
White House sent along this note….Accompanying the President to Wilmington, Delaware:

Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations
Sasha Baker, Special Assistant to the President & NSC Senior Director for Strategic Planning
Emilie Simons, Assistant Press Secretary 

Below is more complete exchange with POTUS before he boarded small AF1 to Delaware…
Reporter asked POTUS If it makes sense to attack servers used in ransomware attacks but he misheard question over the loud hum of AF1…
"What happened was there was one company. They weren't specifically attacking servers, they were attacking companies"
Reporter repeated question: "I mean the US response. Up until now the US response has been to exercise sanctions, impose sanctions for this malign activity. Does it make sense for the US to kick it up a notch and attack the actual servers that are used?"
POTUS: "Yes"
Q: What are the consequences for Putin if he does not step up against cyber attacks?
POTUS: "Well we set up a joint committee, meeting on (inaudible) the 16th and I believe we're gonna get cooperation."


July 9, 202116:24

Travel pool report #3 
We dropped POTUS off at his residence at 4:20pm 


July 9, 202116:25

Travel pool report #4
?And we have a lid at 4:22pm



  