
    "Earlier this morning, Obama campaign adviser David Axelrod couldn't deny what Senator Dianne Feinstein alleged on Monday — that leaks of classified national security information are coming from the Obama White House. But just last month, President Obama flatly denied this was the case. Governor Romney believes we need a full, prompt, independent investigation of these dangerous leaks and that the time for stonewalling is over." —Ryan Williams, Romney Campaign Spokesman
To View This Press Release Online, Click Here:
Senior Obama Campaign Adviser David Axelrod Can't Deny That National Security Leaks Came From Within The Obama White House:
When Told It Is "Very Obvious The White House Is Leaking Classified Information," Axelrod Did Not Deny The Charge And Called It A "Diversion." MSNBC's JOE SCARBOROUGH: "It is very obvious, it is very obvious the White House is leaking classified information." AXELROD: "Well, Joe, I can tell you, that the President of the United States did not leak classified information, as Mitt Romney suggested yesterday, didn't authorize the leak of classified information, as Mitt Romney suggested yesterday, and I think it was largely a diversion because what's he going to talk about?" (MSNBC's "Morning Joe," 7/25/12)
When Asked "Why Is It Leaking Out Of The White House?" Axelrod Again Didn't Deny White House Leaks, Saying "There Are Leaks Out Of Every Administration." SCARBOROUGH: "Why is it leaking out of the White House? How do we stop it?" AXELROD: "Joe, there's an investigation going — well, you stop it by sending strong signals. Strong signals have been sent. There are leaks out of every administration." (MSNBC's "Morning Joe," 7/25/12)
Yet Just Last Month, President Obama Flatly Denied That His White House Was Responsible For The Leaks:
President Obama: "The Notion That My White House Would Purposely Release Classified National Security Information Is Offensive." PRESIDENT BARACK OBAMA: "The notion that my White House would purposely release classified national security information is offensive.  It's wrong.  And people I think need to have a better sense of how I approach this office and how the people around me here approach this office." (President Barack Obama, Press Conference, 6/8/12)
White House Press Secretary Jay Carney: "Any Suggestion That The White House Has Leaked Sensitive Information For Political Purposes Has No Basis In Fact..." CARNEY: "This administration takes all appropriate and necessary steps to prevent leaks of classified information or sensitive information that could risk ongoing counterterrorism or intelligence operations. Any suggestion that the White House has leaked sensitive information for political purposes has no basis in fact and has been denied by the authors themselves, as one of the authors of The New York Times story on Obama's counterterrorism record said, 'The notion that the White House prompted the story or controlled our reporting and writing is absurd.'" (White House Press Gaggle, 6/7/12)
Senate Intelligence Committee Chairman Dianne Feinstein (D): "I Think The White House Has To Understand That Some Of This Is Coming From Their Ranks":
Senator Feinstein: "I Think The White House Has To Understand That Some Of This Is Coming From Their Ranks." "A prominent Democrat is giving the White House heartburn over national security leaks. Sen. Dianne Feinstein, D-Calif., who chairs the Senate Intelligence Committee, told a World Affairs Council forum yesterday, 'I think the White House has to understand that some of this is coming from their ranks.' ... The leaks have included news that the U.S. has launched cyberattacks against Iran's nuclear program and details of an investigation into an al-Qaeda bombing plot." (USA Today, 7/24/12)
  