
    To the Senate of the United States:
With a view to receiving the advice and consent of the Senate to ratification, I transmit herewith the Extradition Treaties between the Government of the United States of America and the governments of six countries comprising the Organization of Eastern Caribbean States (collectively, the "Treaties"). The Treaties are with: Antigua and Barbuda, signed at St. John's on June 3, 1996; Dominica, signed at Roseau on October 10, 1996; Grenada, signed at St. George's on May 30, 1996; St. Lucia, signed at Castries on April 18, 1996; St. Kitts and Nevis, signed at Baseterre on September 18, 1996; and St. Vincent and the Grenadines, signed at Kingstown on August 15, 1996.
In addition, I transmit, for the information of the Senate, the report of the Department of State with respect to the Treaties. As the report explains, the Treaties will not require implementing legislation.
The provisions in these Treaties follow generally the form and content of extradition treaties recently concluded by the United States.
Each Treaty will enhance cooperation between the law enforcement communities in both countries. That will thereby make a significant contribution to international law enforcement efforts. Upon entry into force of the extradition treaties between the United States and Antigua and Barbuda, Dominica, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, and St. Vincent and the Grenadines, the Extradition Treaty between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland signed June 8, 1972, which was made applicable to each of these territories upon its entry in force January 21, 1977, and which continues to apply between the United States and each of the entities subsequent to becoming independent, will cease to have any effect between the United States and the respective country. Upon entry into force of the Extradition Treaty between the United States and Grenada, the Extradition Treaty between the United States and Great Britain signed December 22, 1931, which was made applicable to Grenada upon its entry into force on June 24, 1935, and which continues to apply between the United States and Grenada, following its becoming independent, shall cease to apply between the United States and Grenada.
I recommend that the Senate give early and favorable consideration to the Treaties and give its advice and consent to ratification.
WILLIAM J. CLINTON
The White House,
July 30, 1997.
  