
    "I'm running for President because I want to reverse the decline of our country, I want to give this country a new birth of freedom."
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah – In a press conference at the Utah state capitol today, Ron DeSantis was endorsed by 19 Utah state legislators, including Senate President Stuart Adams. This support in Utah gives DeSantis an impressive total of over 275 endorsements from state legislators nationwide.
Watch the full conference HERE.
"I'm running for President because I want to reverse the decline of our country, I want to give this country a new birth of freedom. And together, we're going to be able to get that done. We know that we need to go in a much different direction than we have with Bidenomics," said Governor DeSantis. "All the necessities have gone up dramatically, just in the last few years. That is not a recipe for success for people to realize the American dream... We also need to ensure that we're not empowering the Chinese Communist Party with our economic policies. I want American jobs, American business, and American industry. I don't want it all going over to China... My message is this: The decline of this country is not inevitable. It is a choice. It is a choice we will make. I'm going to win the White House because we are going to reverse this decline: economic decline, military decline, cultural decline. All of these things can be remedied, but we have got to get after it right now, and we cannot give up 2024."
"Florida has one of the lowest unemployment rates, one of the best economies, and is one of the fastest growing states in the nation, and I believe that's why Governor DeSantis needs to be President of the United States," said Utah Senate President Stuart Adams. "No other Governor lead like Governor DeSantis did with COVID. It's a great honor for me to have him here."
BACKGROUND ON DESANTIS' STATE LEGISLATIVE ENDORSEMENTS
DeSantis is also endorsed by:39 state legislators in Iowa19 state legislators in North Carolina50 state legislators in New Hampshire99 state legislators in Florida19 state legislators in Michigan20 state legislators in Oklahoma15 state legislators in South Carolina
  