
    The following list does not include promotions of members of the Uniformed Services, nominations to the Service Academies, or nominations of Foreign Service officers.
Submitted July 10
Cheryl F. Halpern,
of New Jersey, to be a member of the Broadcasting Board of Governors for a term of one year (new position).
Marc B. Nathanson,
of California, to be a member of the Broadcasting Board of Governors for a term of 3 years (new position).
Stanley A. Riveles,
of Virginia, for the rank of Ambassador during his tenure of service as U.S. Commissioner to the Standing Consultative Commission.
Carl Spielvogel,
of New York, to be a member of the Broadcasting Board of Governors for a term of one year (new position).
John R. Tunheim,
of Minnesota, to be a U.S. District Judge for the District of Minnesota, vice Donald D. Alsop, retired.
Submitted July 12
James Franklin Collins,
of Illinois, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador at Large and Special Adviser to the Secretary of State on the New Independent States.
Stanley Tuemler Escudero,
of Florida, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Uzbekistan.
Joseph A. Presel,
of Rhode Island, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, for rank of Ambassador during his tenure of service as Special Negotiator for Nagorno-Karabakh.
Stephen D. Potts,
of Maryland, to be Director of the Office of Government Ethics for a term of 5 years (reappointment).
Submitted July 14
Darcy E. Bradbury,
of New York, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Treasury, vice Hollis S. McLoughlin, resigned.
Michael P. Dombeck,
of Wisconsin, to be Director of the Bureau of Land Management, vice Jim Baca.
Jeanne R. Ferst,
of Georgia, to be a member of the National Museum Services Board for a term expiring December 6, 1999, vice Roy L. Shafer, term expired.
Jill L. Long,
of Indiana, to be Under Secretary of Agriculture for Rural Economic and Community Development (new position).
Joseph H. Neely,
of Mississippi, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation for a term of 6 years, vice C.C. Hope, Jr.
Joe Scroggins, Jr.,
of Florida, to be a Federal Maritime Commissioner for the term expiring June 30, 2000 (reappointment).
Charles H. Twining,
of Maryland, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Cameroon.
  