
    "Throughout his time in office, President Obama has consistently sided with government, not business owners, when it comes to the economy. But the disappointing results speak for themselves: middle-class Americans are still struggling and job creators still aren't hiring. It's clear President Obama just wasn't up to the task of fixing our economy." — Amanda Henneberg, Romney Campaign Spokesperson
More Business Owners Have A Message For President Obama: We Built Our Businesses, Not Government:
McKees Rocks' David Cranston: "It Was The First Time I Was Really Angry At The President." "David Cranston of McKees Rocks agreed. He said his company, Cranston Material Handling Equipment Corporation, has struggled with business regulations and taxes. ... Asked if the comments had changed his opinion of Obama, Cranston acknowledged that the two had always held opposing views, but that, 'It was the first time I was really angry at the President.'" (Keegan Gibson, "PA Republicans Did Build That Meme," PoliticsPA.com, 7/25/12)
Delia Meier, Whose Family Founded The Iowa-80 Truck Stop, Said She Felt "Dismissed" By President Obama's Remarks. "The businesspeople — Mark Ross, a partner at the consulting firm IGO Partners, and Delia Meier, whose family founded the Iowa-80 Truck Stop — both took issue with the president Wednesday. ... Meier said Wednesday she felt 'dismissed' by the president's remarks." (Ed Tibbetts, "Iowa GOP Leaders Continue Focus On Obama 'You Didn't Build That' Remark," Quad-City Times, 7/25/12)  
Business Owner Kevin Ressler — A Registered Democrat From Florida — Said He "Took Offense" At President Obama's Remarks And Would Not Vote For Him In November. "In West Palm Beach, registered Democrat Kevin Ressler, who owns a marble restoration and maintenance business in Boca Raton, said he 'took offense' to the president's remarks and won't be voting for him this year after doing so in 2008." (George Bennett, "'You Didn't Build That' Fight Heats Up In Florida With Romney Attacks, New Obama Ad," Palm Beach Post, 7/25/12)
Small-Business Owner Chris Head: "It's Really An Exposure, An Opportunity To See That Our President Doesn't Know What It Means To Build A Business." "In Roanoke, Pete Snyder, the director of the GOP's coordinated Virginia campaign,  and state Del. Chris Head, R-Botetourt County, stood before a campaign banner for Republican Mitt Romney bearing the phrase 'We Did Build It!' and condemned the president's remarks about businesses. ... But Head, who owns Home Instead Senior Care, said he's disturbed by the underlying thrust of the speech. 'It's really an exposure, an opportunity to see that our president doesn't know what it means to build a business,' Head said." (Mason Adams And Michael Sluss, "Republicans Step Up Attack On Obama's Roanoke Speech," The Roanoke Times, 7/25/12)
Tom McAneny Of McAneny Brothers In Pennsylvania: "I Don't Remember Any Government Employees Standing There Saying We're Behind You And We've Got Your Back." TOM MCANENY, MCANENY BROTHERS: "I don't remember any government employees standing there saying we're behind you and we've got your back. I remember signing those papers and knowing full well what I was signing and I was risking everything that we owned." (WTAJ-TV, 7/25/12)
Ball Office Products' Melissa Ball: "Americans Do Build Their Own Business, And We Need A President Who Believes That As Well." "McDonnell was joined by a pair of small business owners, including Melissa Ball of Ball Office Products who said she was insulted by the president's comments. 'President Obama is wrong,' Ball said. 'Americans do build their own business, and we need a president who believes that as well.'" (Anita Kumar, "McDonnell Blasts Obama On 'You Didn't Build That' Comment," The Washington Post, 7/25/12)
Midwest Tape President John Eldred: "The Man Has No Idea About What It Is To Run A Business, What It Is To Put Everything That You Have On The Line, To Risk Your Home For What You Believe In." (WTOL-TV, 7/25/12)
Alexis Calleja, A Founder Of A Boutique Law Firm In Florida:  "I Was Insulted When I Heard President Obama's Comment..." "'I take pride in my work to build my business, and that of my employees to grow it,' said Alexis Calleja, founding partner of Hudson & Calleja LLC, a boutique law firm in Florida. 'I was insulted when I heard President Obama's comment that, 'If you've got a business, you didn't build that.'" (Press Release, MittRomney.com, 7/25/12)
It Is No Surprise That Business Owners Overwhelmingly Disapprove Of President Obama's Job Performance:
U.S. Business Owners Are Among The Least Approving Occupational Groups Of President Obama. "U.S. business owners' approval of President Barack Obama fell in the second quarter of 2012 to 35%, essentially tying farmers and fishers for the lowest approval among major occupational groups." (Lymari Morales, "U.S. Business Owners Now Among Least Approving Of Obama," Gallup, 7/26/12)


    Business Owners Experienced The Sharpest Decline In Approval Of All Occupational Groups. (Lymari Morales, "U.S. Business Owners Now Among Least Approving Of Obama," Gallup, 7/26/12)
  

"Business Owners Resoundingly Oppose President Barack Obama's Policies, With Nearly 60 Percent Disapproving Of His Job Performance..." (Tim Mak, "Poll: Biz Owners Down On Obama," Politico, 7/26/12)
  