
    WASHINGTON – Today, President Barack Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key administration posts:

Robert D. Hormats, Under Secretary of State for Economic, Energy, and Agricultural Affairs, Department of State 
Gary S. Guzy, Deputy Director of the Office of Environmental Quality (Council on Environmental Quality) 
Lee A. Feinstein, Ambassador to the Republic of Poland, Department of State 

President Obama said, "Each of these individuals brings talent, expertise and dedication that will be invaluable for our administration, and I am confident that they will serve the American people well. I look forward to working with them in the months and years ahead."
President Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals today:
Robert D. Hormats, Nominee for Under Secretary of State for Economic, Energy, and Agricultural Affairs, Department of State
Robert D. Hormats is Vice Chairman of Goldman Sachs (International). He joined Goldman Sachs in 1982 and was named Managing Director in 1998. Mr. Hormats served as Assistant Secretary of State for Economic and Business Affairs from 1981to 1982, Ambassador and Deputy US Trade Representative from 1979 to 1981, and Senior Deputy Assistant Secretary for Economic and Business Affairs at the Department of State from 1977 to 1979. He served as a senior staff member for International Economic Affairs on the National Security Council from 1969 to 1977, where he was senior economic advisor to Dr. Henry Kissinger, General Brent Scowcroft and Dr. Zbigniew Brzezinski. Mr. Hormats was a recipient of the French Legion of Honor in 1982 and the Arthur Fleming Award in 1974. Mr. Hormats has been a visiting lecturer at Princeton University and currently is a member of the Board of Visitors of the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy. Mr. Hormats is also a member of the Council on Foreign Relations and a board member of the Economic Club of New York. Mr. Hormats' publications include The Price of Liberty: Paying for America's Wars from the Revolution to the War on Terror; Abraham Lincoln and the Global Economy; American Albatross: The Foreign Debt Dilemma; and Reforming the International Monetary System. Other publications include articles in Foreign Affairs, Foreign Policy, The New York Times, The Washington Post, The Wall Street Journal, American Banker and The Financial Times. Mr. Hormats earned a B.A. with a concentration in Economics and Political Science from Tufts University in 1965. He earned an M.A. in 1966 and a Ph.D. in International Economics in 1970 from the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy.
Gary S. Guzy, Nominee for Deputy Director of the Office of Environmental Quality (Council on Environmental Quality)
Gary S. Guzy brings 25 years of environmental leadership experience in business, government, and academia. He currently serves as the General Counsel of APX, Inc., the leading global provider of registry tracking systems for carbon and renewable energy credits. Mr. Guzy also is an Adjunct Professor of Environmental Law at the Georgetown University Law Center, where he teaches climate change law. Mr. Guzy served as the General Counsel and Counselor to the Administrator of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency during the Clinton Administration, as well as a Senior Attorney at the Justice Department's Environment Division. Mr. Guzy has also served as the Global Practice Leader for Climate Risk and Sustainability at Marsh, Inc., the world's leading insurance broker and strategic risk advisor. Mr. Guzy is a graduate of Cornell University and Cornell Law School.
Lee A. Feinstein, Nominee for Ambassador to the Republic of Poland, Department of State 
Lee A. Feinstein is currently a Senior Advisor in the Office of the Secretary at the Department of State. Mr. Feinstein is on leave from the Brookings Institution, where he has been a Visiting Fellow in Foreign Policy Studies since 2008. From 2002 to 2007, Feinstein worked at the Council on Foreign Relations, where he was Deputy Director of Studies, Senior Fellow for Foreign Policy and International Law, and Executive Director of the Task Force Program. An international lawyer, Mr. Feinstein has written widely on U.S. national security and foreign policy matters. He served as an expert on the 2005 Congressionally mandated, bipartisan Task Force on the United Nations and co-directed the nonpartisan CFR Task Force on Enhancing U.S. Leadership at the United Nations. From 2007 to 2008, Mr. Feinstein served as National Security Director for Hillary Clinton for President, and subsequently as an outside foreign policy advisor to candidate Barack Obama. Mr. Feinstein served with distinction in the Departments of Defense and State from 1994 to 2001, including as Principal Deputy Director of the Policy Planning Staff, where he advised the senior leadership of the State Department on strategic goals and objectives in political-military affairs and nonproliferation.
  