
    The Rudy Giuliani Presidential Committee today announced key advisors who have been providing input on Rudy Giuliani's commitment to providing affordable free-market-based solutions to health care aimed at giving Americans more control over and access to their health care.
The Mayor's group of advisors includes well-known advocates of consumer-driven health care and recognized leaders in their respective areas of expertise. The group consists of Dr. Daniel Kessler, a senior fellow at the Hoover Institute, associate professor at Stanford University, and co-author of Healthy, Wealthy, and Wise. Other advisors include Dr. Scott Atlas, Dr. David Gratzer, Sally Pipes, and Don Moran.
"Rudy Giuliani strongly believes in limited government and giving American families more control over their health care decisions," said Steve Goldsmith, the campaign's Chief Domestic Policy Advisor. "He understands that failed mandates and wasteful, unaccountable bureaucracies lead to the exclusion of millions of Americans from quality care and health insurance."
"Empowering American consumers is the key to reforming our nation's health care system," said Dr. Kessler. "Rudy will encourage innovative solutions to provide affordability and increased access to heath care options."
The group of advisors will provide assistance in developing a wide range of heath care proposals including reforming the tax code and the medical liability system and providing more families with expanded health insurance choices.
About the Health Care Advisors:
Dan Kessler, Ph.D.
Dr. Kessler is a senior fellow at the Hoover Institution and a professor at the Graduate School of Business at Stanford University, where he teaches courses on economics, public policy, and the health care industry. Among his recent publications are, with Mark McClellan, "The Effect of Hospital Ownership on Medical Productivity" and "Designing Hospital Antitrust Policy to Promote Social Welfare."
He is also the co-author of Healthy, Wealthy, and Wise.
Dr. Kessler holds a Ph.D. in Economics from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and a J.D. from Stanford Law School.
Scott Atlas, M.D.
Dr. Atlas is a senior fellow by courtesy at the Hoover Institution and a professor of radiology and chief of neuroradiology at Stanford University Medical School.
His research includes free market solutions to health care and looking at the effects of technology-based innovations in medicine. Before his appointments at the Hoover Institution and Stanford University, Atlas was on the faculty of University of California at San Francisco, University of Pennsylvania, and Mount Sinai Medical Center in New York City.
Among Atlas' recent publications are "Relationship between HMO Market Share and the Diffusion and Use of Advanced MRI Technologies," and Power to the Patient: Selected Health Care Issues and Policy Solutions. Atlas has authored more than 100 scientific publications in leading journals. He is also the editor of the Magnetic Resonance Imaging of the Brain and Spine. Atlas has lectured throughout the world on a variety of topics.
Atlas has received numerous awards and honors, including being named by his peers in The Best Doctors in America every year since its initial publication, The Best Doctors in New York, Silicon Valley's Best Doctors, and Top 500 Doctors in the Bay Area.
Atlas received a B.S. degree in biology from the University of Illinois in Urbana-Champaign and an M.D. degree from the University of Chicago's School of Medicine.
David Gratzer, M.D.
Dr. Gratzer, a physician, is a senior fellow at the Manhattan Institute. His research interests include consumer-driven health care, Medicare and Medicaid, and FDA reform. The late Milton Friedman, Nobel Laureate in Economics, wrote that Dr. Gratzer is "a natural-born economist."
Dr. Gratzer's most recent book, with Foreword by Milton Friedman, is The Cure: How Capitalism Can Save American Health Care. He is a peer reviewer for numerous publications and organizations including the Journal of Health Politics, Policy, and Law, Canadian Medical Association Journal, American Journal of Medicine, Max Bell Foundation, Pacific Research Institute, and National Center for Policy Analysis.
Sally C. Pipes
Pipes is president and chief executive officer of the Pacific Research Institute, a San Francisco-based think tank founded in 1979. Prior to becoming president in 1991, she was assistant director of the Fraser Institute.
Pipes writes, speaks, and gives invited testimony at the national and state levels on key health-care issues facing America. Hillsdale College published her essay on health care reform in the 2006 edition of Champions of Freedom, and it was part of a conference on "Entrepreneurship and the Spirit of America". Pipes has held a variety of positions in both the private and public sectors.
Pipes serves on the Medical Advisory Council of Genworth Capital's Long-term Care Insurance Division and the board of advisors of the San Francisco Lawyers Chapter of the Federalist Society. She was a member of California Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger's transition team in 2003-04.
In 2005, Pipes was named one of the Top 10 Women in the Conservative Movement in America as published by Human Events.
Donald W. Moran
Moran founded The Moran Company in 1998 after a twenty-four year career in the health and human services fields. The Moran Company specializes in research and consulting projects dealing with both the public and private sectors in health care.
He served as the Executive Associate Director for Budget and Legislation at the U.S. Office of Management & Budget under President Ronald Reagan, where he managed government-wide budget review operations and managed OMB's extensive involvement in the Congressional budget and appropriations processes.
  