
    STATEMENT OF ADMINISTRATION POLICY
(SENT 7/20/94)(Senate Floor)(Sponsors:  Byrd (D), West Virginia; Lautenberg (D), New Jersey)
This Statement of Administration Policy expresses the Administration's views on H.R. 4556, the Department of Transportation and Related Agencies Appropriations Bill, FY 1995, as reported by the Senate Appropriations Committee.
The Administration supports Senate passage of H.R. 4556 as reported by the Committee and will work with the Senate to address the concerns described below.
President's Investment Initiatives 
The Administration is pleased with the Committee's action that funds a portion of the Next Generation High-Speed Rail Program and the Pennsylvania Station Redevelopment Program. The Administration is disappointed, however, with the reductions in funding for Federal-aid highways and mass transit formula capital. Specifically, the Senate is encouraged to fund the core highway programs of the Intermodal Surface Transportation Efficiency Act closer to the authorized levels.
Increased funding for the investment proposals could be achieved, in part, through a reallocation of resources from lower-priority or unrequested programs in the Committee bill. In particular, the Senate is urged to shift funds from unrequested, place-specific highway projects to the core highway program, and from Transit New Starts to Transit Formula Capital Grants.
Interstate Commerce Commission 
The Administration understands that an amendment may be offered to eliminate funding for the Interstate Commerce Commission (ICC). The Administration would oppose such an amendment because it would lead to serious disruptions in the transportation community, especially for shippers and railroads. Rather, the Administration supports the funding level provided for the ICC in the Committee version of the bill.
Consistent with the Committee funding level, the Administration has indicated that it supports separate authorizing legislation that would eliminate certain obsolete ICC functions, while retaining those authorities that properly belong with an independent regulatory agency.
  