
    Mr. Prime Minister, all of our distinguished guests from Japan, all of our distinguished guests from the United States:
We have many very distinguished guests in this company tonight, but one in particular I should mention that we are always delighted to have, and that is the lady who presided with such grace over this house for 8 years, Mrs. Dwight Eisenhower.
President Eisenhower respected and loved the Japanese people, and it was President Eisenhower who gave Mrs. Nixon and me the opportunity to know the Japanese people, because in 1953, as Secretary Rogers will remember, he made a cryptic comment after a Cabinet meeting that I should take a trip.
In those days we had not heard of the kind of trips the young people take today, and I said, "Where would you suggest, Mr. President?" And he said, "You should go to Japan and to the other countries of Asia."
And so, the trip was one that acquainted both of us with Asia for the first time in a real way. For 73 days we never finished a dinner without champagne and never got out of a black tie.
But in any event, out of that trip in 1953, 20 years ago, many vivid memories stand out, but the memory that stands out among many others is particularly that of Japan. I remember the people that I saw. I remember the leaders that I met. I remember that giant of a man, Yoshida1--not giant in stature, but giant in intelligence and understanding of the world, one of the few world statesmen, in the true sense, of that period.
And when I returned and reported to President Eisenhower, I told him then that despite the pessimistic suggestions that were made by some in high places that Japan had a long way to go before it recovered, I said Japan is on the way and that it will make it, not because of American aid--because many in the world have received American aid and have failed--but Japan will succeed in a spectacular recovery because of the strength, the character of the Japanese people, and also of the character of their leadership.
A small thing, Mr. Prime Minister: One day we were riding along the road out toward a village, and as we rode along, I saw two workmen in the field, a man and a woman, plowing the field. We stopped the car, we went out, we met them. I didn't understand their language; they didn't understand ours. But as I met them and as I felt in their hands the strength and the determination that was there, I knew here were the representatives of a great people. And that is why Japan today is a great nation.
Oh, all the nice little words are said-"Because of your aid, we have come back"--and it helped, but the truth of the matter is that the nation we honor tonight and the leader we honor tonight are in a position of greatness in the world because they have within them that inner strength, that drive to greatness which will never, never be suppressed.
Now, many of you probably wonder what the Prime Minister and I talked about at dinner tonight and what we talked about in our meetings today. It would make very lively chitchat to say that, like a couple of desert rug merchants, we haggled over what is the textile quota going to be or what are we going to do about this or that or the other thing involved between our two countries. But those were not the subjects, because--and this is, I think, typical of the relationship that has developed between our two countries and of the Prime Minister's feeling and my feeling about the role he and I have to play in the brief time we are in the position of world leadership--we talked about this world in which we live.
We talked about the fact that between Japan and the United States, over 40 percent of all the goods in the world are produced. We talked about the fact that Japan and America working together, not against anybody else, but working for peace and for progress, for decency, civility, that we could make the difference as to whether the 3 billion people on this Earth will grow up in peace and in friendship, or in ugly confrontation and eventual nuclear destruction.
It is so easy these days to think in other terms, to think in the minuscule political terms that I think tempt us all from time to time and tempt those who represent the people in both countries--make a small point here, work in the murky field of political partisanship--but what really matters is this: After our short time on this great world stage is completed and we leave, what do we leave?
Do we leave the memory only of the battles we fought, of the opponents we did in, of the viciousness that we created, or do we leave possibly not only the dream but the reality of a new world, a world in which millions of the wonderful young children that I saw by the millions in Japan and that the Prime Minister will see by the millions here in America may grow up in peace and in friendship.
That is what we talked about. That is what Japanese-American friendship is about. We are competitors, and that is good, competitors in terms of saying who can do best in producing those things that peoples of the world want for peaceful purposes.
But we are not competitors, we are total friends and cooperators when it comes to developing those policies that will build a peaceful world.
And so, let others spend their time dealing with the murky, small, unimportant, vicious little things. We have spent our time and will spend our time in building a better world.
I remember that trip, Mrs. Eisenhower, that the General so graciously sent Mrs. Nixon and me on. I remember the time that you received us both up in the West Hall right afterwards, and we were both very tired, and you were so gracious.
I remember the General speaking quite eloquently about why Asia was important, what his dreams were about the future of the world, and what really mattered, because then he was plagued by some domestic controversies that most people have forgotten today.
But he knew what was important, and he saw it in perspective. And tonight, as I think of what it is appropriate to say about our distinguished guest and his colleagues and the great nation of 105 million people that he represents, I think perhaps it is best to say that here in America are 200 million people. We have our faults, just as every nation has its faults, but our total dedication at this time in our history is toward using our great material resources and our emotional resources and our intellectual resources toward really building a better world and not let ourselves be remembered only for the petty, little, indecent things that seem to obsess us at a time when the world is going by.
In that connection, I have been very encouraged by my talks with the Prime Minister. He, like myself, came from a humble beginning. We have one difference-he has never lost an election.
But on the other hand, we have one thing in which we have totally in common-we are dedicated not only to Japanese-American friendship but we are dedicated to the proposition that for the time we are in positions of political influence, that influence will be used and used primarily and only to build a better world and not be dissipated in those things that don't matter.
And with the great people of Japan and what we believe are equally the great people of America, we are proud to represent them both.
It is customary, of course, to toast the honored guest, but not customary when he is a Prime Minister, and so under these circumstances, with the permission of the Prime Minister, I know that you will permit me to ask you to rise and join me in a toast to His Imperial Majesty, the Emperor of Japan.
The Emperor.
  