
    Pool Reports by Todd J. Gillman, The Dallas Morning News 



Sent:
Reports:




July 19, 2023 09:47

Pool report #1/brunch lid
We have a brunch lid until 12:45pm. 


July 19, 2023 12:47

pool report #2/briefing moved to 1:30 PM
The press briefing, previously scheduled for 1 PM, will begin at 1:30 PM. 


July 19, 2023 13:37

pool report #3/ briefing about to begin
2 minute warning. 


July 19, 2023 15:17

pool report #4/pool in State Dining room
Awaiting POTUS
Oh and for the record, the briefing ran about 47 minutes. 


July 19, 2023 15:24

Pool report #5/POTUS remarks soon
Cabinet members and others are seated at a long table in the State Dining Room.
POTUS' lectern is in a corner, facing a large screen behind which photographers are set up.
There are two empty seats at the table. Those are reserved for Brainard and Vilsack. POTUS is expected to speak and then leave. Pool will also leave at that point.
Attendees are talking quietly among themselves as we wait. As are poolers.
In attendance for the President's meeting of the Competition Council:
Attendees Secretary Tom Vilsack, Department of Agriculture Acting Secretary Julie Su, Department of Labor Secretary Xavier Becerra, Department of Health and Human Services Secretary Pete Buttigieg, Department of Transportation Jeff Zients, Assistant to the President & Chief of Staff Chair Jared Bernstein, Council of Economic Advisers Lael Brainard, Assistant to the President & Director of the National Economic Council Neera Tanden, Assistant to the President & Domestic Policy Advisor Deputy Secretary Don Graves, Department of Commerce Deputy Secretary Adrianna Todman, Department of Housing and Urban Development Chair Lina Khan, Federal Trade Commission Chair Martin Oberman, Surface Transportation Board Administrator Richard Revesz, Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs Director Rohit Chopra, Consumer Financial Protection Bureau Chair Jessica Rosenworcel, Federal Communications Commission Director Kathi Vidal, U.S. Patent and Trademark Office Under Secretary William LaPlante, Department of Defense Acting Assistant Secretary Eric Van Nostrand, Department of the Treasury Assistant Attorney General Jonathan Kanter, Department of Justice Associate Attorney General Vanita Gupta, Department of Justice Commissioner Caroline Crenshaw, Securities and Exchange Commission Deputy General Counsel Natasha Coates, Commodity Futures Trading Commission Chair Daniel Maffei, Federal Maritime Commission (virtual)
Speaking Program The President Secretary Tom Vilsack, Department of Agriculture 


July 19, 2023 15:27

Pool report #6/2 minute warning
For POTUS 


July 19, 2023 15:31

Pool report #7/POTUS speaking
Note the remarks to the Competition Council are streaming at  whitehouse.gov/live 


July 19, 2023 15:49

Pool report #8/question ignored on soldier in North Korea
POTUS spoke for about 6 minutes. He ignored several attempted shouted questions about Travis King and whether he believed the soldier intended to defect when he crossed into North Korea.
At that point, POTUS was working the table, chatting and shaking hands with members of his Competition Council as the questions were shouted and then as the pool was shooed from the State Dining Room.
In his remarks, President Biden boasted about jobs growth etc. as evidence that "Bidenomics" works. He promised an assortment of improved protections.
"Folks are tired of being played for suckers," he said. Steps include: Ramping up antitrust enforcement of groceries. "We're cracking down on hidden junk fees on rental housing." The DOJ and FTC released new rules on mergers i.e. industry concentration in health care. "We cannot accept bad mergers that lead to mass layoffs [and] higher prices."
Vilsack then spoke for about 4 minutes, about steps to protect farmers and consumers from price gouging and a variety of anti-competitive pressures.
"That's why USDA is proud to support President Biden's ...Executive Order to stem the tide of increasing consolidation and promote competition in America's food and agricultural markets. This is going to help lower food costs for American families, while also giving farmers and ranchers more and better options. Today we're excited to announce the launch of the historic agricultural competition in partnership with 32 bipartisan state attorneys general ...[to] crack down on anti competitive and anti consumer practices that raise prices at the grocery store and deprive farmers of a fair return."
I commend antitrust wonks to the video for full quotes. 


July 19, 2023 18:00

pool report #9/gathering for picnic
Pool and press has been called to the Palm Room doors for the South Lawn/Congressional Picnic. 


July 19, 2023 18:48

Pool report #10/Congressional Picnic
Scroll down for official guest list.
Spotted Sen. Coons in a chat near the beverage tent at the back of the lawn. Sen. Stabenow walked past the press pen. Bunch of House members spotted. Mostly Democrats but it's a big lawn. Capito is here.
Speaker Kevin McCarthy is here, near the beverage tent closest to the Rose Garden.
Hail to the Chief began at 6:15pm.
President and Dr. Biden came to the podium with Vice President Harris.
Open press so you probably already have counted heads if you care. Several hundred people in a range of dress from Congress-business with and without ties to beach appropriate shorts. Matt Gaetz has on a tie and a pale pink suit, buttoned.
The president gave shoutouts to Pelosi and Jeffries.
And to McCarthy: "I don't want to hurt his reputation but I actually like him."
More remarks, ending with a paean to old fashioned DC comity: "You know, for all the disagreements we have, you gotta remember at the end of the day we're friends. That's how it's always been. You gotta be friends with each other. I mean, I think we're getting there."
Harris spoke very briefly: "Thank you all. Your role of leadership and sacrifice that the families make really does make a difference in terms of the good work that we do together for the sake of our country."
The menu included several options: "Adam's Italian submarine sandwich," or cold buttermilk fried chicken, or Asian barbecue steak salad, or Caprese salad on herb foccacia, or watermelon and feta salad.
Each option was available on big tables under tents, in plastic boxes.
Ice cream bars for dessert.
The center of the lawn is fenced off so POTUS and VP are inside the pen. VP worked the fence on the West Wing side. The Bidens shmoozed on the East Wing side. All way too far from the press to see who they were talking with. The band played and sang "I like soul with a capital S."
Most of 10-top round tables were all or nearly empty. Some people sat and ate. Lots more stood and visited.
Tables are in lines of red/white or blue/white checkers.
A few younger kids are at the volleyball net on the Washington Monument side of the lawn. The ball occasionally made it into the press pen.
After the brief speeches Raskin stopped by to chat with reporters. Asked about Israel President Herzog's speech:
"Whoever wrote it, it was a great speech."
On Hunter Biden: "We can celebrate the fact that we live in a country where the sin of the President can be prosecuted, fairly.... If Donald Trump were President [and his son was prosecuted] he would be screaming from the rooftops 'witch hunt.'"
At 6:43 POTUS is still down at the far end of his pen ( close to the building) schmoozing. VP has made it to that side but closer to the press pen, working her way back to the White House.
And this just in from the press office:
Joining the President, the First Lady, and the Vice President for the White House Congressional Picnic:
Attorney General Merrick Garland, Department of Justice Acting Secretary Julie Su, Department of Labor Secretary Xavier Becerra, Department of Health and Human Services Secretary Miguel Cardona, Department of Education Chair Jared Bernstein, Council of Economic Advisers Administrator Isabel Guzman, U.S. Small Business Administration Jeff Zients, Assistant to the President and Chief of Staff
Members of Congress expected to attend:

Speaker Kevin McCarthy (CA-20)
Leader Chuck Schumer (NY)
Whip Dick Durbin (IL)
Senator Jack Reed (RI)
Senator Tom Carper (DE)
Senator Debbie Stabenow (MI)
Senator Lisa Murkowski (AK)
Senator Bob Menendez (NJ)
Senator Ben Cardin (MD)
Senator Amy Klobuchar (MN)
Senator Sheldon Whitehouse (RI)
Senator Jeanne Shaheen (NH)
Senator James Risch (ID)
Senator Jeff Merkley (OR)
Senator Kirsten Gillibrand (NY)
Senator Chris Coons (DE)
Senator John Boozman (AR)
Senator Rand Paul (KY)
Senator Mike Lee (UT)
Senator Tammy Baldwin (WI)
Senator Chris Murphy (CT)
Senator Mazie Hirono (HI)
Senator Martin Heinrich (NM)
Senator Deb Fischer (NE)
Senator Ed Markey (MA)
Senator Shelley Moore Capito (WV)
Senator Bill Cassidy (LA)
Senator Dan Sullivan (AK)
Senator Chris Van Hollen (MD)
Senator Tammy Duckworth (IL)
Senator Maggie Hassan (NM)
Senator John Kennedy (LA)
Senator Tina Smith (MI)
Senator Mark Kelly (AZ)
Senator Ben Ray Lujan (NM)
Senator Jacky Rosen (NV)
Senator Jon Ossoff (GA)
Senator Raphael Warnock (GA)
Senator Peter Welch (VT)
Senator Ted Budd (NC)
Senator John Fetterman (PA)
Senator JD Vance (OH)
Speaker Emerita Nancy Pelosi (CA-11)
Representative Steny Hoyer (MD-05)
Representative Marcy Kaptur (OH-09)
Representative Frank Pallone (NJ-06)
Representative Richard Neal (MA-01)
Representative Jerry Nadler (NY-12)
Representative Anna Eshoo (CA-16)
Representative Bobby Scott (VA-03)
Representative Lloyd Doggett (TX-38)
Representative Sheila Jackson Lee (TX-18)
Representative Zoe Lofgren (CA-18)
Representative Earl Blumenauer (OR-03)
Representative Robert Aderholt (AL-04)
Representative Diana DeGette (CO-01)
Representative Jim McGovern (MA-02)
Representative Brad Sherman (CA-32)
Representative Adam Smith (WA-09)
Representative Barbara Lee (CA-12)
Representative Grace Napolitano (CA-31)
Representative Janice Schakowsky (IL-09)
Representative Mike Thompson (CA-04)
Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02)
Representative Betty McCollum (MN-04)
Representative Dutch Ruppersberger (MD-02)
Representative Michael Turner (OH-10)
Representative Emanuel Cleaver (MO-05)
Representative Jim Costa (CA-21)
Representative Henry Cuellar (TX-28)
Representative Virginia Foxx (NC-05)
Representative Al Green (TX-09)
Representative Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05)
Representative Gwen Moore (WI-04)
Representative Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-25)
Representative Doris Matsui (CA-07)
Representative Gus Bilirakis (FL-12)
Representative Vern Buchanan (FL-16)
Representative Kathy Castor (FL-14)
Representative Yvette Clarke (NY-09)
Representative Steve Cohen (TN-09)
Representative Joe Courtney (CT-02)
Representative Doug Lamborn (CO-05)
Speaker Kevin McCarthy (CA-20)
Representative Adrian Smith (NE-03)
Representative Bob Latta (OH-05)
Representative Andre Carson (IN-07)
Representative Gerry Connolly (VA-11)
Representative James Himes (CT-04)
Representative Chellie Pingree (ME-01)
Representative Bill Posey (FL-08)
Representative Paul Tonko (NY-20)
Representative Mike Quigley (IL-05)
Representative Judy Chu (CA-28)
Representative John Garamendi (CA-08)
Representative Tim Walberg (MI-05)
Representative Kweisi Mfume (MD-07)
Representative Larry Bucshon (IN-08)
Representative Scott DesJarlais (TN-04)
Representative Charles Fleischmann (TN-03)
Representative Morgan Griffith (VA-09)
Representative Bill Huizenga (MI-04)
Representative Terri Sewell (AL-07)
Representative Daniel Webster (FL-11)
Representative Frederica Wilson (FL-24)
Representative Suzanne Bonamici (OR-01)
Representative Suzan DelBene (WA-01)
Representative Andy Barr (KY-06)
Representative Joyce Beatty (OH-03)
Representative Julia Brownley (CA-26)
Representative Tony Cardenas (CA-29)
Representative Joaquin Castro (TX-20)
Representative Lois Frankel (FL-22)
Representative Jared Huffman (CA-02)
Leader Hakeem Jeffries (NY-08)
Representative David Joyce (OH-14)
Representative Dan Kildee (MI-08)
Representative Derek Kilmer (WA-06)
Representative Ann Kuster (NH-02)
Representative Doug LaMalfa (CA-01)
Representative Grace Meng (NY-06)
Representative Raul Ruiz (CA-25)
Representative Eric Swalwell (CA-14)
Representative Mark Takano (CA-39)
Representative Juan Vargas (CA-52)
Representative Marc Veasey (TX-33)
Representative Robin Kelly (IL-02)
Whip Katherine Clark (MA-05)
Representative Don Norcross (NJ-01)
Chairman Pete Aguilar (CA-33)
Representative Don Beyer (VA-08)
Representative Brendan Boyle (PA-02)
Representative Ken Buck (CO-04)
Representative Buddy Carter (GA-01)
Representative Mark DeSaulnier (CA-10)
Representative Debbie Dingell (MI-06)
Representative Garret Graves (LA-06)
Representative French Hill (AR-02)
Representative John Moolenaar (MI-02)
Representative Dan Newhouse (WA-04)
Representative Bonnie Watson Coleman (NJ-12)
Representative Brad Schneider (IL-10)
Representative Jodey Arrington (TX-19)
Representative Don Bacon (NE-02)
Representative Nanette Barragan (CA-44)
Representative Salud Carbajal (CA-24)
Representative Lou Correa (CA-46)
Representative Adriano Espaillat (NY-13)
Representative Brian Fitzpatrick (PA-01)
Representative Matt Gaetz (FL-01)
Representative Vicente Gonzalez (TX-34)
Representative Josh Gottheimer (NJ-05)
Representative Mike Johnson (LA-04)
Representative Ro Khanna (CA-17)
Representative Raja Krishnamoorthi (IL-08)
Representative Jimmy Panetta (CA-19)
Representative Jamie Raskin (MD-08)
Representative Darren Soto (FL-09)
Representative Jimmy Gomez (CA-34)
Representative Ralph Norman (SC-05)
Representative Debbie Lesko (AZ-08)
Representative Michael Cloud (TX-27)
Representative Joe Morelle (NY-25)
Representative Mary Gay Scanlon (PA-05)
Representative Susan Wild (PA-07)
Representative Steven Horsford (NV-04)
Representative Colin Allred (TX-32)
Representative Sean Casten (IL-06)
Representative Dan Crenshaw (TX-02)
Representative Sharice Davids (KS-03)
Representative Madeleine Dean (PA-04)
Representative Veronica Escobar (TX-16)
Representative Lizzie Fletcher (TX-07)
Representative Chuy Garcia (IL-04)
Representative Sylvia Garcia (TX-29)
Representative Josh Harder (CA-09)
Representative Jahana Hayes (CT-05)
Representative Dusty Johnson (SD-AL)
Representative John Joyce (PA-13)
Representative Andy Kim (NJ-03)
Representative Susie Lee (NV-03)
Representative Mike Levin (CA-49)
Representative Lucy McBath (GA-07)
Representative Joe Neguse (CO-02)
Representative Ilhan Omar (MN-05)
Representative Katie Porter (CA-47)
Representative Ayanna Pressley (MA-07)
Representative John Rose (TN-06)
Representative Elissa Slotkin (MI-07)
Representative Haley Stevens (MI-11)
Representative Rashida Tlaib (MI-12)
Representative David Trone (MD-06)
Representative Lauren Underwood (IL-14)
Representative Jennifer Wexton (VA-10)
Representative Dan Bishop (NC-08)
Representative Jake Auchincloss (MA-04)
Representative Jamaal Bowman (NY-16)
Representative Cori Bush (MO-01)
Representative Tony Gonzales (TX-23)
Representative Sara Jacobs (CA-51)
Representative Teresa Leger Fernandez (NM-03)
Representative Kathy Manning (NC-06)
Representative Marianette Miller-Meeks (IA-01)
Representative Blake Moore (UT-01)
Representative Frank Mrvan (IN-01)
Representative Jay Obernolte (CA-23)
Representative Deborah Ross (NC-02)
Representative Maria Elvira Salazar (FL-27)
Representative Beth Van Duyne (TX-24)
Representative Nikema Williams (GA-05)
Representative Troy Carter (LA-02)
Representative Melanie Stansbury (NM-01)
Representative Jake Ellzey (TX-06)
Representative Shontel Brown (OH-11)
Representative Sheila Cherfilus-McCormick (FL-20)
Representative Brad Finstad (MN-01)
Representative Mary Peltola (AK-At Large)
Representative Pat Ryan (NY-18)
Representative Ryan Zinke (MT-01)
Representative Becca Balint (VT-At Large)
Representative Aaron Bean (FL-04)
Representative Josh Brecheen (OK-06)
Representative Nikki Budzinski (IL-13)
Representative Yadira Caraveo (CO-08)
Representative Lori Chavez-DeRemer (OR-05)
Representative Jasmine Crockett (TX-30)
Representative Monica De La Cruz (TX-15)
Representative Chris Deluzio (PA-17)
Representative Chuck Edwards (NC-11)
Representative Valerie Foushee (NC-04)
Representative Maxwell Frost (FL-10)
Representative Robert Garcia (CA-42)
Representative Dan Goldman (NY-10)
Representative Erin Houchin (IN-09)
Representative Val Hoyle (OR-04)
Representative Wesley Hunt (TX-38)
Representative Glenn Ivey (MD-04)
Representative Sydney Kamlager (CA-37)
Representative Jen Kiggans (VA-02)
Representative Greg Landsman (OH-01)
Representative Nick Langworthy (NY-23)
Representative Mike Lawler (NY-17)
Representative Laurel Lee (FL-15)
Representative Summer Lee (PA-12)
Representative Anna Paulina Luna (FL-13)
Representative Seth Magaziner (RI-02)
Representative Morgan McGarvey (KY-03)
Representative Robert Menendez (NJ-08)
Representative Max Miller (OH-07)
Representative Marc Molinaro (NY-19)
Representative Nathaniel Moran (TX-01)
Representative Jared Moskowitz (FL-23)
Representative Wiley Nickel (NC-13)
Representative Zach Nunn (IA-03)
Representative Brittany Pettersen (CO-07)
Representative Delia Ramirez (IL-03)
Representative Hillary Scholten (MI-03)
Representative Keith Self (TX-03)
Representative Eric Sorensen (IL-17)
Representative Dale Strong (AL-05)
Representative Emilia Sykes (OH-13)
Representative Shri Thanedar (MI-13)
Representative Jill Tokuda (HI-02)
Representative Gabe Vasquez (NM-02)
Representative Jennifer McClellan (VA-04)
Representative Eleanor Holmes Norton (DC-DEL)
Representative Gregorio Kilili Camacho Sablan (Northern Mariana Islands)
Representative Stacey Plaskett (VI-DEL)
Representative Aumua Amata Radewagen (American Samoa)
Representative Jenniffer Gonzalez-Colon (PR)




July 19, 2023 19:43

Pool report #11/Still picnicking
The sun has dipped below the EEOB and we have passed the one hour mark since President Biden began shaking hands and schmoozing at the Congressional Picnic on the South Lawn.
He just finally made it to the East Wing corner of his pen, closest to the press pen. He took a selfie for someone then shifted to the West Wing side, still close to the press (like 50 feet). Guests have swarmed around him as the band plays "Walking in Memphis."
Murkowski was playing corn hole for a while. Volleyball game ongoing.
Leftovers are being distributed to the press still on hand so it would be accurate to say that some of the press picnicked tonight. 


July 19, 2023 20:14

pool report #12/lid and Congressional Picnic ends
At 8:05 pm the President walked into the residence. The pool was never close to him.
Poolers and other diehard members of the press were passing through the Rose Garden as the Marine Band played its last notes. The crowd at the Congressional Picnic had definitely thinned out by then but there were still plenty of folks still on the South Lawn. Were deals cut tonight? New friendships forged across the aisle? No idea. But it was a lovely evening.
We have a lid. 



  