
    "So there's a lot of bad signs out there and people are saying okay, how are you going to turn this things around and instead President Obama seems to want to focus on two things. One, is criticizing business. Recently, he talked about how if you have a business you didn't build that, someone else made that happen. Well, gosh, talk to small business owners in the Columbus area, and they'll tell you they're working really hard, you know, a bunch of them talked to me over the weekend when I was home and said look, you know, I got a second mortgage on the house, I work seven days a week. Yeah, I built this thing, and the government's not helping me, it's making it harder..." — Sen. Rob Portman
"The Joel Riley Show"
WTVN-OH
July 18, 2012
Click Here To Listen To Sen. Rob Portman Discuss President Obama's Misunderstanding Of How Business Works
SEN. ROB PORTMAN: "What they are worried about is the direction of our country. We've got these terrible jobs reports out showing we've got unemployment at higher levels for a longer period of time than we've had really since the Great Depression. Consumer confidence is now down, as you know, a report a couple of weeks ago indicating the lowest it's been in a year, and another one I saw yesterday indicating that, you know, people are just not confident with what this administration is doing and the direction of our country. And then manufacturing is down for the first time in three years. Since the month after the recession, we actually have a decline in manufacturing which is particularly important for us in Ohio. So there's a lot of bad signs out there and people are saying okay, how are you going to turn this thing around? And instead President Obama seems to want to focus on two things. One, is criticizing business. Recently, he talked about how if you have a business you didn't build that, someone else made that happen. Well, gosh, talk to small business owners in the Columbus area, and they'll tell you they're working really hard, you know, a bunch of them talked to me over the weekend when I was home and said look, you know, I got a second mortgage on the house, I work seven days a week. Yeah, I built this thing, and the government's not helping me, it's making it harder because my healthcare cost are up, energy costs are up, the regulations have increased, the President wants to tax me more. So I think we need a new direction, and what I like about Mitt Romney is he's got the record; he's got the experience; he understands how business works; how you create jobs and, you know, he's got the right policies to say let's give business a break to be able to create jobs. I mean that's the idea is to be able to give people the incentive to invest, give people the confidence to know that we're going to handle this debt and deficit and that we're going to put in place pro-growth tax policies, regulation, relief, an energy policy that actually gets the costs down and uses our own resources and healthcare costs have gone up, not down, since the President's proposal and his law and what Mitt Romney is saying let's do the things necessary to get healthcare costs down. So I think that ought to be a good debate in Ohio and around the country because that's what people are interested in."
  