
    Pool Reports by Annie Linskey, The Wall Street Journal 



Sent:
Reports:




July 6, 2023 10:28

POTUS in town pool report #1 - Biden lifts, takes no questions
Good morning from a steamy Washington.
POTUS walked out of the White House at 10:17AM
He did not respond to shouted questions about the whereabouts of Prigozhin or cocaine found in the West Wing.
Marine 1 lifted at 10:22AM
Handing off to out of town pool 


July 6, 2023 11:11

POTUS in town pool report #2 - AF1 gaggle expected at 11:15AM
Hello all --
Andrew Bates is doing the gaggle aboard Af1.
It's expected to start at 11:15AM
The link is here: https://www.whitehouse.gov/live/ 


July 6, 2023 11:19

POTUS in-town pool report #3 - 2 min to gaggle on AF1
Two minute warning to the AF1 gaggle, which will be brought to you by Andrew Bates
https://www.whitehouse.gov/live/ 


July 6, 2023 15:20

POTUS In town pool report #4 - POTUS at JBA
Due to early afternoon storms (that subsequently passed), the WH announced a bad weather call around 2 pm. POTUS is moving from JBA to the White House via motorcade.
*AF1 landed at 3:03 PM at JBA
*At 3:16 pm the motorcade began rolling back to the White House. 


July 6, 2023 15:41

POTUS in town #5 - arrival at WH
After an uneventful drive from JBA, Biden's motorcade arrived at the WH at 3:36 pm
From the WH
Traveling with the President via motorcade en route to the White House:
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff Mike Donilon, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations Ben LaBolt, Assistant to the President & Director of Communications 


July 6, 2023 16:17

POTUS report #6 - lid
The White House called a lid at 4:13 pm.
Enjoy the (now) sunny afternoon! 




Pool Reports below by Michael A. Wilner, McClatchy 



Sent:
Reports:




July 6, 2023 10:35

Out-of-town pool report #1 — JBA
Good morning from Joint Base Andrews. The president is traveling to South Carolina today to announce new clean energy manufacturing investments resulting from the Inflation Reduction Act. He'll be touring Flex LTD in West Columbia before giving remarks.
POTUS emerged from Marine One at 10:33 am ET. He boarded Air Force One a moment later without taking questions.
We're boarding. Wheels up shortly for Columbia Metropolitan Airport.
A list of greeters and travelers, per the White House:
Greeting the President upon arrival at Joint Base Andrews:
Colonel Paul Pawluk, Vice Commander, 89th Airlift Wing
Traveling with the President aboard Air Force One:
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff Natalie Quillian, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff Mike Donilon, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations Emmy Ruiz, Assistant to the President & Director of the Office of Political Strategy and Outreach Ben LaBolt, Assistant to the President & Director of Communications John Podesta, Senior Advisor to the President for Clean Energy Innovation Ashley Jones, Deputy Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Legislative Affairs & House Liaison Travis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director Marc Gustafson, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for the White House Situation Room Andrew Bates, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Press Secretary & Senior Communications Advisor for Strategic Response Sheila Grant, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Presidential Speechwriter 


July 6, 2023 12:05

Out-of-town pool report #2 — Arrival in South Carolina
AF1 landed at Columbia Metropolitan Airport at 11:43 pm ET after an uneventful flight, with CNN on in the cabins.
Deputy Press Secretary Andrew Bates gaggled with the pool for about 20 minutes close to the end of the flight, and noted that National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan will join tomorrow's press briefing to preview the president's upcoming foreign travel.
Bates said that Republican Rep. Joe Wilson was "made aware" of POTUS' travel to his district today, but did not say whether he was invited to join the event. Rep. Jim Clyburn and Mayor Daniel Rickenmann were at the airport to greet the president upon arrival.
The gaggle was live-streamed on WH.gov and a transcript will be available later this afternoon.
POTUS deplaned at 11:54 pm ET and went over to greet a small crowd of roughly 20 people gathered to witness his arrival along public safety barriers. Your pool was ushered to the motorcade before seeing POTUS board the Beast.
We are motorcading to the Flex LTD facility. Rolling as of 12:04 pm ET. 


July 6, 2023 12:14

Out-of-town pool report #3 — Arrival at Flex
Press vans peeled off the motorcade at 12:10 once we entered the Flex complex. Your pool is setting up and holding inside the facility.


July 6, 2023 12:42

Out-of-town pool report #4 — Background and POTUS tour
Two senior White House officials discussed the president's visit on background, telling your pool that POTUS "feels pretty good" about his economic strategy at this point, with "historically low unemployment" and "the strongest job growth in American history."
"People are starting to feel the results of this," one official said. "We need to tell the story."
The officials noted that Enphase is the first company to successfully manufacture and commercialize the microinverter, and that the South Carolina investment POTUS is highlighting today marks the first time they are being manufactured in America — an example, they said, of bringing cutting-edge manufacturing and critical supply chains to the United States.
The officials noted that Republican lawmakers, in South Carolina and elsewhere, who voted against the Inflation Reduction Act and are pushing to repeal it, are also celebrating the investments that are creating jobs in their communities.
POTUS emerged on the floor of the plant at 12:36 pm ET alongside Rep. Clyburn and greeted three employees on the project, who explained their products to the president in front of a display table. Their conversation was inaudible to your pool, which has now been ushered to the speech site within the same plant.
The White House passes along the following:
The President is touring the manufacturing floor of Flex LTD and receiving a briefing on the products Enphase Energy is producing at this plant and how these products are helping build a clean energy economy.
Tour Participants: Rep. Jim Clyburn (SC-06) Raghu Belur, Co-Founder and Inventor, Enphase Energy Brent Fowler, General Manager, Flex Columbia Maria Paz, Manufacturing Engineering Manager, Flex Columbia 


July 6, 2023 12:59

Out-of-town pool report #5 — POTUS remarks begin
POTUS took the stage at 12:58 pm ET. You can follow his remarks live at WH.gov.
From the White House:
The President is delivering remarks on how Bidenomics is spurring manufacturing investments and good-paying jobs across the country, including a new partnership between Enphase Energy and Flex that will create up to 600 jobs in South Carolina.
Attendees Local elected officials, union members, community leaders, and Enphase and Flex workers and leadership.
Pre-Program Revathi Advaithi, CEO, Flex Badri Kothandaraman, CEO, Enphase Energy Rep. Jim Clyburn (SC-06)
Speaking Program Nikki Hicks, Production Line Lead, Flex The President 


July 6, 2023 13:21

Out-of-town pool report #6 — POTUS remarks end
POTUS ended his remarks at 1:20 pm ET. 


July 6, 2023 13:43

Out-of-town pool report #7 — Departing Flex
Motorcade is rolling from the Flex complex as of 1:42 pm ET back to the Columbia Metropolitan Airport.
Apologies that my last pool note was marked No. 5; it was in fact No. 6. 


July 6, 2023 13:51

Out-of-town pool report #8 — Departure from South Carolina
POTUS' motorcade pulled in to the Columbia airport at 1:47 pm ET, and the president immediately boarded Air Force One before your pool had disembarked the motorcade.
Wheels up shortly for JBA. 


July 6, 2023 15:16

Out-of-town pool report #9 — Return to JBA
Air Force One touched down at JBA at 3:03 pm ET, ahead of schedule.
POTUS emerged from AF1 and boarded the Beast at 3:14 pm ET. He'll motorcade back to the White House under a bad weather call.
The White House passes along the following list of travelers on Air Force One from Columbia to JBA:
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff Natalie Quillian, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff Mike Donilon, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations Emmy Ruiz, Assistant to the President & Director of the Office of Political Strategy and Outreach Ben LaBolt, Assistant to the President & Director of Communications John Podesta, Senior Advisor to the President for Clean Energy Innovation Ashley Jones, Deputy Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Legislative Affairs & House Liaison Marc Gustafson, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for the White House Situation Room Travis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director Andrew Bates, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Press Secretary & Senior Communications Advisor for Strategic Response Sheila Grant, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Presidential Speechwriter
And greeting the president at JBA:
Colonel Paul Pawluk, Vice Commander, 89th Airlift Wing
Handing over to the in-town pool. Have a good afternoon. 



  