
    By the President of the United States of AmericaA Proclamation
In 1950, at the beginning of the post-World War II economic boom, America suddenly found itself engaged in another war. This time the enemy was communism, and the battlefield was Korea. America's men and women in uniform left their mark in history once again and added another litany of unfamiliar names to the list of places where Americans have fought and died to defend freedom -- names like Pork Chop Hill, Inchon, and the Pusan Perimeter.
When the communist army of North Korea invaded and attacked the Republic of Korea to the south, it was the beginning of an armed hostility that would eventually involve 21 nations and continue for more than 3 years. Taking the lead in attempting to restore freedom and independence to the people of Korea was the United States of America.
In order to reclaim the territorial integrity of South Korea, a United Nations command was created with the United States serving as the executive agent. Twenty other member nations provided military contingents to serve under the United Nations banner. The United States' deep commitment to freedom was demonstrated by the number of Americans who served and sacrificed in this bloody conflict. Over 5,700,000 American service men and women were involved directly or indirectly in the war; 54,246 Americans made the supreme sacrifice, dying so that others might be free. Over 100,000 were wounded, and still thousands of others were captured and endured starvation, disease, and physical and psychological torture.
Although the Korean War has been known as America's "Forgotten War," those who served have never forgotten, and our Nation must never forget the great price these men and women paid for the cause of liberty and the right of self-determination.
Soon a magnificent monument will be raised on the grounds of the Mall in Washington. The 38 figures that will march silently for all eternity across that panorama will honor, in eloquent fashion, all who served in the Korean War.
In respect, gratitude, and recognition of those Americans who served in the Armed Forces during the Korean War, the Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 85, has designated the week beginning July 24, 1989, as "National Week of Recognition and Remembrance for Those Who Served in the Korean War" and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this occasion.
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the week beginning July 24, 1989, as Naticodronal Week of Recognition and Remembrance for Those Who Served in the Korean War. I urge the press, radio, television, and all information media to observe the week with appropriate ceremonies and activities. Further, I direct all departments and agencies of the United States and urge interested organizations, groups, and individuals to fly the American flag at half-staff on July 27, 1989, in honor of those Americans who died as a result of their service in Korea.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-sixth day of July, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-nine, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fourteenth.
GEORGE BUSH
  