
    CHARLESTON, SC –  Last night, Tim Scott joined Fox News'Sunday Night in America with Trey Gowdy to discuss recent polling about American values.
WATCH HERE
Tim ScottSunday Night In AmericaJuly 9, 2023
Trey Gowdy: The polling indicates Americans are down on the country, down on one another, down on the values we used to subscribe to, part of me doesn't blame folks for being pessimistic. When it's all you see and hear, you tend to believe it's all that exists. But what do you make of the polling and the state of the soul of our country?
Tim Scott: Trey, there are a lot of questions that we need to answer, and thank you so much for having me on your show. I would say one of the reasons why I'm running for president is because I understand the answer to this question. We have a lot of reasons to be optimistic about our future and it does take some self-reflection. Three really important reasons why we should be optimistic about our future. The first one is based on the fact that our history proves time and time again that Americans are exceptional because we meet our biggest obstacles by creating opportunities out of them, whether it's the Civil War, World War I, World War II, Jim Crow South, we continue to overcome the obstacles. The second really important reason is that the people like me who grew up on the other side of the tracks, started with a miserable beginning. It was the American people, friends from different neighborhoods, from different races, from different income statuses, came together to help me take personal responsibility, looking in the mirror and taking responsibility for my future. And the third reason why we should be really optimistic about where we're going as a nation is because America was founded upon Judeo-Christian values. Those principles continue to produce the greatest system, the greatest reason for hope in all of the universe, the reason why I consistently talk about Ephesians 3:20, that God is able to do exceedingly, abundantly above all that we ask or imagine. But Trey you know it and I know it, that today there is an entire industry built on grievance and victimhood. The progressive Left continues to sell us that it is somebody else's problem, that you have nothing to do with your condition, that America's a declining racist country, that is a lie from the pit of Hell. There's nothing further from the truth than that. So it's time for us, those of us who believe in the future of America, to stand up and to fight for the future of this nation and to win, and we have to win by persuading people that we're right.
  