
    Senators
Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (KY): "President Trump has made a superb choice. Judge Brett Kavanaugh is an impressive nominee who is extremely well qualified to serve as an Associate Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States."
Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Chuck Grassley (IA): "Judge Kavanaugh is one of the most qualified Supreme Court nominees to come before the Senate. His credentials are well known, and he's served with distinction as a judge on the esteemed D.C. Circuit for more than a decade. He is a superb mainstream candidate worthy of the Senate's consideration."
Sen. John Boozman (AR): "Judge Kavanaugh is a distinguished jurist whose extensive experience and respect within the legal community make him uniquely qualified to serve on the Supreme Court. He has had an impressive legal career that the Senate recognized by confirming him with bipartisan support to the federal bench."
Sen. David Perdue (GA): "President Trump has again fulfilled his promise to the American people and put forward an outstanding nominee to serve on the United States Supreme Court. Throughout his remarkable legal career, Brett Kavanaugh has shown a commitment to upholding our country's Constitution."
Sen. Mike Crapo (ID): "Judge Kavanaugh has a strong background of legal experience and knowledge and I congratulate him on this high honor."
Sen. Bill Cassidy (LA): "Judge Kavanaugh—solid pick. President Trump kept his promise, nominating a conservative faithful to the Constitution as written, recognized as having an excellent legal mind."
Sen. Roger Wicker (MS): "President Trump has once again kept his promise to nominate to the Supreme Court a well-qualified jurist with a record of upholding the integrity of the law and the Constitution. This appointment will help shape the nation's highest court for a generation."
Sen. Thom Tillis (NC): "Judge Brett Kavanaugh has impeccable credentials, serving on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the last decade and earning a reputation for being a mainstream and fair-minded jurist. Judge Kavanaugh undoubtedly has the right qualifications to serve as an associate justice on the Supreme Court, and I look forward to meeting with him in the coming weeks in advance of his confirmation hearing."
Sen. Jim Inhofe (OK): "Brett Kavanaugh is an outstanding choice for the Supreme Court. Throughout his experience on the bench, Judge Kavanaugh has shown a commitment to upholding the Constitution and respecting judicial restraint."
Sen. James Lankford (OK): "Judge Brett Kavanaugh is an impressive nominee to be considered for the Supreme Court. "
Sen. John Thune (SD): "Historic evening as President Trump nominates Judge Brett Kavanaugh to the Supreme Court."
Sen. Orrin Hatch (UT): "I'm so pleased that the President has selected Judge Brett Kavanaugh to fill the vacancy on the Supreme Court... Judge Kavanaugh is an outstanding choice. I know him from his previous confirmation to the D.C. Circuit. He is one of our nation's most distinguished and influential jurists."
Sen. Mike Lee (UT): "Judge Kavanaugh is a well-respected jurist who deservedly received bipartisan support when confirmed to the D.C. Circuit in 2006. I know him to be a smart and fair judge, one of the most admired appellate judges in the country."
Sen. John Barrasso (WY): "Judge Kavanaugh has the intellect, character and temperament to be an outstanding justice of the Supreme Court."
Members of the House
Speaker of the House Paul Ryan (WI): "President Trump's nomination of Judge Brett Kavanaugh shows his commitment to selecting judges who are themselves committed to this restraint. Judge Kavanaugh will bring extensive experience to the Supreme Court; his long career exemplifies public service and, in particular, dedication to religious liberty. He has shown that Constitutional principles are the ultimate guide for his opinions. I look forward to Judge Kavanaugh's swift confirmation in the Senate. This is an excellent choice."
Rep. Robert Aderholt (AL): "I believe President Trump has made an excellent choice in nominating Brett Kavanaugh. Judge Kavanaugh has the qualifications that make him immensely qualified to take a seat on the highest court in the land."
Rep. Andy Biggs (AZ): "I commend President Trump for again keeping his promise to nominate a Supreme Court candidate who follows the intent of our Constitution and not legislate from the bench. I give my unequivocal endorsement to Judge Brett Kavanaugh."
Rep. Ron DeSantis (FL): "With nomination of Kavanaugh, it's clear @POTUS has selected someone who understands Constitution & can apply constitutional principles in persuasive way."
Rep. Daniel Webster (FL): "On the campaign, President Trump promised his Supreme Court pick nominee would be a jurist who is dedicated to freedom, the rule of law, and to preserving our liberties as enshrined in the Constitution of the United States. He also promised a transparent selection process. With the nomination of Justice Gorsuch and now Judge Kavanaugh, President Trump has kept his promises."
Rep. Doug Collins (GA): "In nominating Brett Kavanaugh for #SCOTUS, @POTUS has delivered a candidate whose thoughtful faithfulness to the Constitution will be an asset to our nation's highest court. The Senate now has the opportunity to serve the American people by confirming Judge Kavanaugh immediately."
Rep. Drew Ferguson (GA): "Brett Kavanaugh will be a great addition to the U.S. Supreme Court. I urge the Senate to act quickly confirm his nomination"
Rep. Bill Huizenga (MI): "Congratulations to Brett Kavanaugh on his nomination to #SCOTUS."
Rep. Sam Graves (MO): "Judge Kavanaugh's commitment to uphold the Constitution, conservative values, and his reputation as a brilliant jurist make him an excellent choice. I am confident that he will serve with distinction and I urge the Senate to act swiftly to confirm him to the Supreme Court."
Rep. Jeff Fortenberry (NE): "Congratulations to Judge Brett Kavanaugh for being nominated as the United States' next Supreme Court Justice and to President Trump for another excellent choice."
Rep. Peter King (NY): "Judge Brett Kavanaugh is an outstanding nominee for Supreme Court Justice. He is an experienced jurist and a strict constitutionalist with a record of distinction & achievement."
Rep. Tom Reed (NY): "President Trump has once again followed through on a campaign promise and appointed a strong conservative judge that will shape our country for generations to come. Judge Brett Kavanaugh elicits all the ideals of a spectacular Supreme Court Justice. He has demonstrated an exceptional legal understanding and a clear loyalty and commitment to the U.S. Constitution."
Rep. Joe Wilson (SC): "The nomination of Judge Brett Kavanaugh, a highly qualified and highly respected judge, is a home run. He has a distinguished record of being fair, impartial, and faithful to the Constitution."
Rep. Chuck Fleischmann (TN): "I applaud President Trump's nomination of Judge Brett Kavanaugh to the United States Supreme Court. Judge Kavanaugh's extensive record of proven, conservative ideology will be essential in the future decisions of the Supreme Court."
Rep. Michael Burgess (TX): "I commend President @realDonaldTrump for nominating Judge Brett Kavanaugh for the U.S. Supreme Court. Judge Kavanaugh is a principled originalist who will uphold our constitution. I urge the Senate to move quickly to confirm this outstanding #SCOTUS nominee."
Rep. Ted Poe (TX): "President @realDonaldTrump nominates Judge Brett Kavanaugh for SCOTUS. Excellent choice - a strong willed constitutionalist. Judge Kavanaugh will honor and uphold the Constitution rather than trying to rewrite it."
Rep. John Ratcliffe (TX): "I could not be more pleased with President Trump's nomination of Judge Brett Kavanaugh to serve on the Supreme Court of the United States."
Rep. John Curtis (UT): "I am pleased that President Trump has nominated Judge Kavanaugh to replace retiring Justice Anthony Kennedy. Like President Trump's first appointment to the Supreme Court, Justice Neil Gorsuch, Judge Kavanaugh has demonstrated a commitment to interpreting the Constitution as it is written, rather than as he would personally like to have seen it written."
Rep. Dan Newhouse (WA): "President Trump's decision to nominate Brett Kavanaugh to the U.S. Supreme Court shows the high importance of interpreting the Constitution as the Founders intended when they wrote it. I urge the Senate to move quickly on confirmation of the next Justice."
Rep. Alex Mooney (WV): "Fantastic choice @realDonaldTrump. Judge Kavanaugh will make a great Supreme Court Justice."
  