
    Pool Reports by Erin Logan, Los Angeles Times 
Note: The pooler continued the numbering sequence which began on June 29.Reports 1 through 5 were on June 29 and can be accessed by clicking this link.Reports 6 through 17 were on June 30 and can be accessed by clicking this link.Reports 18 through 28 were on July 2 and can be accessed by clicking this link.Reports 30 through 31 were on July 4 and can be accessed by clicking this link.There were no pool reports on July 1 or 3.



Sent:
Reports:




July 5, 202209:29 PDT

VP Supplemental Pool#32: checking in from LAX
Hello,
Your pooler has been tested, swept and is awaiting VPOTUS arrival at LAX. Your pooler will not be in Harris' motorcade ride to the airport and instead rode with WH staff to the tarmac.
AF2 is scheduled to depart at 9:45 pacific time for Chicago O'Hare, where your pooler will be joined with more members or the press. Harris is scheduled to give remarks at the National Education Associaton at 4:15 cdt.
For the many of you asking if Harris will visit Highland Park, I've been told there have been no changes to Harris' public schedule as of now.
Here's the WH guidance for today:
At 9:40AM PDT, the Vice President will depart Los Angeles, California en route Chicago, Illinois. This departure from Los Angeles International Airport and arrival at Chicago O'Hare International Airport will be pooled press.
At 4:15PM CDT, the Vice President will give remarks at the National Education Association 2022 Annual Meeting and Representative Assembly. This event at the McCormick Place Convention Center in Chicago, Illinois will be pooled press and live-streamed on whitehouse.gov/live/.
At 6:25PM CDT, the Vice President will depart Chicago, Illinois en route Washington, D.C. This departure from Chicago O'Hare International Airport and arrival at Joint Base Andrews will be pooled press.



July 5, 202209:37 PDT

VP Supplemental Pool#33: VPOTUS and SGOTUS arrive at LAX, wheels up momentarily
VPOTUS' motorcade arrived at LAX at 9:32pm PST. She is joined with her husband SGOTUS Doug Emhoff, both of whom exited their vehicle at 9:33 and ascended to AF2. They waved before entering AF2 at 9:34pm PST.
We will be wheels up momentarily



July 5, 202211:49 CDT

VP Supplemental Pool#34: AF2 wheels up
At 9:49 am PST
See y'all soon!



July 5, 202215:07 CDT

VP Supplemental Pool#35: AF2 wheels down
At 3:07pm CDT.
Also apologies, just seeing I put VPOTUS' arrival at LAX. It should have been am, not PM. I need more coffee.



July 5, 202215:43 CDT

VP Supplemental Pool#36: VPOTUS lands in Chicago, greeted by Mayor Lightfoot, motorcade rolling
VPOTUS and SGOTUS emerged from AF2 at 3:34
Pm cdt.
Your pooler was on the tarmac and in a van for about 20 mins waiting for Harris to emerge.
She was greeted by Chicago Mayor Lori Lightfoot and County Executive Toni Preckwinkle. They shook hands and spoke with SGOTUS and VPOTUS until 3:37.
Harris and Emhoff entered their vehicle at 3:37. Motorcade began rolling at 3:38 en route to McCormick Place Convention Center
From the WH:
On background from a WH Official:
While traveling from Los Angeles, California to Chicago, Illinois, Vice President Harris connected with Governor J.B. Pritzker of Illinois and Highland Park Mayor Nancy Rotering to discuss the mass shooting in Highland Park, Illinois.

Harris was greeted by:
- Mayor Lori Lightfoot (D-Chicago, IL)
- County Executive Toni Preckwinkle(D-Cook County, IL)



July 5, 202216:20 CDT

VP Supplemental Pool#37: VPOTUS and SGOTUS arrive at NEA convention
The motorcade arrived to the McCormick Place Convention Center at 4:15 pm cdt.
Your pooler did not see Harris or Emhoff emerge from their vehicle. Your pooler has been joined by other journalists, fyi. Press is heading into the convention center. We peeled off from VPOTUS and SGOTUS. I've been told more will join us there.
While in the motorcade, your pooler spotted a few people cheering and recording the procession on their phones.
The NEA remarks will NOT be featured on the White House website. Instead, you can see them on her Facebook and Twitter accounts.
I'll check back in when her remarks begin.
On Background form a White House OfficialThis afternoon Vice President Kamala Harris will deliver remarks at the National Education Association's 2022 Annual Meeting and Representative Assembly in Chicago, Illinois. Vice President Harris will discuss the challenges educators have faced in recent years and highlight their critical role in communities across the country, as well as the Biden-Harris' Administration investments to support students and educators.
Today, the Administration is building on the historic investments to support students and educators by launching a new, national effort to recruit 250,000 mentors and tutors to help address pandemic learning loss amongst students, which the Vice President will also highlight.
At the beginning of her remarks, Vice President Harris will address the recent tragedy in Highland Park, which resulted in loss of life and left dozens people injured. President Biden recently signed into law the first major bipartisan gun reform legislation in almost 30 years, and both the President and Vice President acknowledged that more must be done.
The Vice President remarks will be livestreamed here.
Administration Launches National Effort to Support Student Success 

Today, the Biden-Harris Administration, led by AmeriCorps and the Department of Education, is joining forces with leading national education, youth, and service organizations and the Johns Hopkins Everyone Graduates Center to launch the National Partnership for Student Success (NPSS). NPSS will help expand high-impact tutoring, mentoring, and other evidence-based support programs that help students succeed. The National Education Association is among the organizations participating in the effort. In addition, President Biden will also call on schools to use the $122 billion in ARP funds to provide high-quality tutoring, summer learning and enrichment, and afterschool programs to help students make up for lost learning time and support their mental health.

Students are on average two to four months behind in reading and math because of the COVID-19 pandemic. Research shows that high quality tutors and mentors positively impact student achievement, well-being, and overall success. The recruitment effort will be led by AmeriCorps and the Department of Education with leading national education, youth, and service organizations and the Johns Hopkins Everyone Graduates Center.


A full fact-sheet can be found here.

Vice President's Work as Chair of the Labor Taskforce 

In May 2022, the Vice President visited a school in Falls Church, VA with NEA President Becky Pringle to announce $500 million in clean school bus funding to go to schools across the country.
The Vice President's trip to Chicago to speak to NEA members is the latest engagement in ongoing work the Vice President has led as Chair of the Labor Task Force. The VP has traveled the country to engage with workers and labor leaders on the frontlines, including:

Sheetmetal Workers Local 19 in Philadelphia, PA (April 2022)
IBEW Apprenticeship program in Durham, NC (March 2022)
Plumbers and Pipefitters Local 189 in Columbus, OH (November 2021)
Roundtable with tech industry organizers in Pittsburgh, PA (June 2021)


The Vice President chairs the Task Force on Worker Organizing and Empowerment, with Labor Secretary Marty Walsh serving as vice-chair.

Established in April of 2021, The Task Force is comprised of over 20 participant agencies, offices, and White House components, counting 13 cabinet secretaries as members.
In February 2022, the task force released its 1st report, which included more than 70 actions that the federal government can take to make it easier for workers to organize, such as leveraging federal government purchasing/spending power to support workers who are organizing. President Biden accepted the recommendations, and as a follow up, the Task Force will submit a second report to the President which will describe progress in implementation and contain additional proposals for further action.
In May 2022, the VP and Sec. Walsh held a roundtable with a diverse group of young, grassroots worker organizers, including Christian Smalls of the Amazon Labor Union and Laura Garza of Starbucks Workers United, to discuss their extraordinary efforts to organize unions in their workplaces.






July 5, 202216:37 CDT

VP Supplemental Pool#38: Harris NEA delayed --timing unclear
NEA President Rebecca S. Pringle said around 4:35pm that Harris' remarks will be delayed. It is unclear when they will begin. The conference is moving on "until we get a signal that Vice President Harris is ready for us," Pringle said.
Attendees who were standing in the front, awaiting her remarks, walked back to their seats.
I'll tell you more when I get information.



July 5, 202216:51 CDT

VP Supplemental Pool#39: Harris to address Highland Park shooting during NEA remarks
Per a WH official, The Vice President will also address the shooting in Highland Park at the top of her remarks.
The remarks are still delayed, she is not yet on stage.
Reminder, you can stream them on her Twitter and FB, according to an official.
Also From a WH official:
There are approximately 6,000 attendees both in person and virtual.
Vice President Harris will be introduced by Becky Pringle, President of the National Education Association (NEA)



July 5, 202217:03 CDT

VP Supplemental Pool#40: Harris NEA remarks beginning in five mins
You can stream them on her Twitter and Facebook.



July 5, 202217:09 CDT

VP Supplemental Pool#41: Harris NEA remarks starting now (link included, streaming on WH website)
She's being introduced by the NEA president right now. Tune in at the link below.
Just checked WH website and I see a link. Apologies.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SnJ5k5HC81E&feature=youtu.be
https://www.whitehouse.gov/live/



July 5, 202217:39 CDT

VP Supplemental Pool#42: Harris remarks ended
at 5:39pm CDT.
The crowd was very jovial and cheered as she called on Congress to ban assault rifles. They stood when she entered and exited.



July 5, 202218:11 CDT

VP Supplemental Pool #43: motorcade rolling to an OTR
Motorcade began rolling at 6:09 pm cdt to an OTR
Your pooler did not see VPOTUS or SGOTYS enter the motorcade.
Here is my otter from the NEA speech:
https://otter.ai/u/oLMXiy-fj3YB-yZ_envpGTugVlU



July 5, 202218:20 CDT

VP Supplemental Pool #44: Harris to visit Highland Park (embargoed until 6:30pm CDT)
From a WH:
Reportable at 6:30pm CT: The Vice President will visit Highland Park, Illinois. She will be accompanied by Mayor Nancy Rotering, Congressman Brad Schneider, and State Senator Julie Morrison.
During their call this morning, Mayor Rotering invited the Vice President to join her in Highland Park following her speech to the NEA National Assembly.



July 5, 202219:04 CDT

VP Supplemental Pool #45: VPOTUS arrives in Highland Park
VPOTUS and SGOTUS' motorcade arrived in Highland Park, Illinois at 7:01 pm local time.
We appear to be in the downtown area, which appears to be the site of shooting. VPOTUS is holding in her car at the moment, per a WH official.
Your pooler has not been given additional guidance from the WH on what to expect during the visit.
The ride was uneventful, though, we did hold briefly I-90/94 at "the loop area" near downtown Chicago for about 30 seconds. When the motorcade arrived, a few people stood on aids
I'll send more when I can.



July 5, 202219:19 CDT

VP Supplemental Pool #46: POTUS greets local officials, remarks begin
VP and SGOTUS emerged from the motorcade at 7:05pm and were greeted by local officials, speaking with them for about two mins. They the walked along Green Bay road for a few seconds until they for too the intersection of Green Bay and Central Ave, perpendicular to the crime scene. She spoke for a few more minutes with local officials and police officers. Press was shuffled back and forth across the street to capture exchanges.
The crime scene appears largely intact. Childrens bikes, a baby stroller, water coolers, toys and lawn chairs are scattered along the brick sidewalks.
Your pooler could not hear the exchanges with Harris and local officials.
Local residents stood on the opposite side of the street. There are about 100 of them standing behind press.
This will be covered by local and national press so
Please tune in for the remarks, which began at 7:17. I am so far away from her she is very hard to make out what she's saying.



July 5, 202219:26 CDT

VP Supplemental Pool #47: remarks ended, pool holding
VPOTUS remarks ended at 7:21pm. Your pooler was separated from the VP, who stayed behind to speak more with officials.
After her remarks concluded, local residents applauded and shouted "thank you for coming."
Pool is back on the bus and waiting to depart to the airport via motorcade.



July 5, 202219:31 CDT

VP Supplemental Pool #48: motorcade rolling to airport
Began rolling at 7:29 pm CDT
Also, I just noticed I dropped a V in a subject line. POTUS is NOT in Highland Park. Just VPOTUS and SGOTUS.



July 5, 202219:56 CDT

VP Supplemental Pool #49: motorcade arrives at airport, departure closed press
At 7:57pm CDT
The ride was swift and uneventful.
On background from a WH Official
Due to inclement weather the Vice President's departure from Chicago, Illinois will be closed press.
Will be wheels up very soon




  