
    WASHINGTON, DC – Today, President Barack Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key Administration posts:
•      Eric J. Jolly – Member, National Museum and Library Services Board
•      Susana Torruella Leval – Member, National Museum and Library Services Board
The President also announced his intent to appoint the following individuals to key Administration posts:
•      Nani A. Coloretti – Member, Government Accountability and Transparency Board
•      Greg Friedman – Member, Government Accountability and Transparency Board
•      Freeman A. Hrabowski III – Chair, President's Advisory Commission on Educational Excellence for African Americans
•      Maria T. Nagorski – Member, President's Advisory Council on Faith-Based and Neighborhood Partnerships
•      Elder Steven E. Snow – Member, President's Advisory Council on Faith-Based and Neighborhood Partnerships
President Obama said, "I am proud that such experienced and committed individuals have agreed to serve the American people in these important roles. I look forward to working with them in the months and years ahead."
President Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key Administration posts:
Dr. Eric J. Jolly, Nominee for Member, National Museum and Library Services Board
Dr. Eric J. Jolly is President of the Science Museum of Minnesota. Previously, from 1995 to 2004, he served as Senior Scientist and Vice President at the Education Development Center, a nonprofit research and design organization in Newton, Massachusetts. Dr. Jolly was Assistant to the Chancellor and Director for Affirmative Action and Diversity Programs at the University of Nebraska-Lincoln from 1992 to 1995, Assistant Dean of University College at the University of Rhode Island from 1989 to 1992, and Associate Dean of the College of Arts and Sciences at Indiana State University from 1987 to 1989. He served on the Board of Directors of the Cornell Laboratory of Ornithology and the Association of Science-Technology Centers, as well as the Board of Trustees of the National Museum of the American Indian, and the Senior Advisory Board of the University of Arizona Science Center. Dr. Jolly received a B.A. from the University of Rhode Island, and an M.S. and Ph.D. from the University of Oklahoma.
Susana Torruella Leval, Nominee for Member, National Museum and Library Services Board
Susana Torruella Leval is Director Emerita of El Museo del Barrio. She served as Director of El Museo del Barrio from 1994 to 2002, after serving as Chief Curator for four years. Ms. Torruella Leval is a member of the Board of Trustees of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, the Aperture Foundation, and Dreamyard. In addition, she is on the Editorial Board of the International Center of the Art of the Americas. She previously served on the Overseers' Committee to Visit the Arts Museums at Harvard College and the Visiting Committee of the Getty Center. Ms. Torruella Leval received a B.A. from Manhattanville College and an M.A. from New York University's Institute of Fine Arts.
President Obama announced his intent to appoint the following individuals to key Administration posts:
Nani A. Coloretti, Appointee for Member, Government Accountability and Transparency Board
Nani A. Coloretti is Acting Assistant Secretary for Management and Deputy Assistant Secretary for Management and Budget at the U.S. Department of the Treasury. Prior to joining the Administration, Ms. Coloretti worked in the San Francisco's Mayor's office from 2005 until 2009, most recently serving as Budget Director. Previously, Ms. Coloretti served as the Director of Policy, Planning, and Budget for the San Francisco Department of Children, Youth, and Their Families from 1999 to 2005. Ms. Coloretti worked as a Health Financing Branch Budget Examiner for the U.S. Office of Management and Budget from 1994 to 1997. She was a Budget Analyst for the Department of Public Safety in the State of Hawaii from 1991 to 1992. Ms. Coloretti is a recipient of the National Public Service Award, the Public Policy and International Affairs Achievement Award, and the Government Finance Officers Association Distinguished Budget Presentation Award. She received a B.A. in Economics and Communications from the University of Pennsylvania and an M.P.P. from the Goldman School of Public Policy at the University of California at Berkeley.
Greg Friedman, Appointee for Member, Government Accountability and Transparency Board
Greg Friedman is Inspector General at the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE), a position he has held since 1998. In addition, Mr. Friedman serves as a Member of the Recovery Accountability and Transparency Board. He joined the Office of the Inspector General in 1982 as an Auditor and served in a variety of roles, including Deputy Inspector General from 1994 to 1998. He has served as Vice Chair of the President's Council on Integrity and Efficiency and as a Member of the Advisory Council on Government Auditing Standards. He is a recipient of DOE's Meritorious Service Award and a two-time recipient of the Presidential Rank Award, once for Distinguished Service and once for Meritorious Service. In 1979, he was selected by DOE to be a Mid-Career Fellow in Public Affairs at Princeton University's Woodrow Wilson School for Public and International Affairs. Mr. Friedman received a B.A. in Business Administration from Temple University and an M.B.A. from Fairleigh Dickinson University.
Dr. Freeman A. Hrabowski III, Appointee for Chair, President's Advisory Commission on Educational Excellence for African Americans
Dr. Freeman A. Hrabowski III is President of the University of Maryland, Baltimore County (UMBC), a position he has held since 1992. Previously, Dr. Hrabowski was Executive Vice President of UMBC from 1990 to 1992 and Vice Provost of UMBC from 1987 to 1990. Before joining UMBC, Dr. Hrabowski held leadership and faculty positions at Coppin State College, now Coppin State University, from 1977 to 1987 and at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign from 1974 to 1976. He serves on the boards of the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation, the France-Merrick Foundation, and the Urban Institute, and is Chair of the Marguerite Casey Foundation. He is a recipient of the U.S. Presidential Award for Excellence in Science, Mathematics, and Engineering Mentoring. He was named one of the"100 Most Influential People in the World"in 2012 by Time Magazine and one of the seven "Top American Leaders" in 2011by The Washington Post and the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University. He received a B.A. in Mathematics from the Hampton Institute, now Hampton University, as well as an M.A. in Mathematics and a Ph.D. in Higher Education Administration from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign.
Maria T. Nagorski, Appointee for Member, President's Advisory Council on Faith-Based and Neighborhood Partnerships
Maria T. Nagorski is the Executive Director of the nonprofit organization Fair Chance. Fair Chance partners with community-based nonprofits to increase their ability to address issues related to child poverty. Previously, from 1999 to 2007, Ms. Nagorski provided leadership and training services to a variety of organizations, including the United Nations World Food Programme, the White Ribbon Alliance for Safe Motherhood, and the International Youth Foundation. From 1994 to 1999, Ms. Nagorski was the Founder and Executive Director of Center for Youth as Resources, a national organization focused on engaging youth in service, philanthropy, and leadership in their communities. Concurrently, from 1985 to 1999, she was the Deputy Executive Director of the National Crime Prevention Council. Ms. Nagorski is an active member of Leadership Greater Washington and was awarded a 2010 Purpose Prize Fellowship by Civic Ventures. Ms. Nagorski received a B.A. in History from the University of Rochester.
Elder Steven E. Snow, Appointee for Member, President's Advisory Council on Faith-Based and Neighborhood Partnerships
Elder Steven E. Snow currently serves as Church Historian, Recorder, and Church History Department Executive Director for the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Previously, Elder Snow served as a member of the Presidency of the Seventy, supervising the Utah Areas and the North America Central Area from 2007 to 2012. Prior to this, he served as Executive Director of the Church's Priesthood Department from 2006 to 2007 and as President of the Church's Africa Southeast Area from 2001 to 2005. Elder Snow first joined the Church's First Quorum of the Seventy in 2001. Prior to his work with the Church, Elder Snow was a Senior Partner at the Utah law firm of Snow & Nuffer from 1979 to 2001 and a county prosecutor in Washington County, Utah, from 1977 to 1979. Elder Snow has also served as a member and President of the Washington County, Utah, School Board; Chairman of the Utah State Board of Regents; and Chairman of the Western Interstate Commission of Higher Education. Elder Snow received his B.S. in Accounting from Utah State University and his J.D. from Brigham Young University.
  