
    President Bush and President Bagabandi today declared a new era of cooperation and comprehensive partnership between their two democratic countries based on shared values and common strategic interests. They welcomed the progress in implementing the Joint Statement of January 31, 2004 and looked ahead to future consultations and collaboration. The two sides agreed to work towards maintaining regular consultations at all levels. They also expressed satisfaction that the relationship between their two countries continues to grow and strengthen. President Bagabandi's visit illustrates the important progress we have made in our bilateral relationship and in our mutual participation in the larger community of democracies.
The United States welcomed the recent free and fair elections in Mongolia as another manifestation of Mongolia's strong and abiding commitment to democracy.
President Bush expressed the United States' strong support for Mongolia's democratic and economic transition and reforms and welcomed Mongolia's progress toward becoming a mature and stable democracy and a private sector-led free market economy. He congratulated President Bagabandi and the Mongolian people for qualifying for eligibility for the Millennium Challenge Account, a new approach to achieving sustainable economic growth that rewards countries for past performance and provides incentives for continuing dynamic policy reforms. President Bush congratulated the Mongolian people on their commitment to democracy as expressed in their recent elections and noted confidence that the election process would be successfully completed in a free, fair and transparent manner consistent with Mongolia's constitution.
The two Presidents agreed that a democratic, secure, and prosperous Mongolia that promotes friendly relations with its neighbors and is an active participant in regional and international economic, political, and security forums is essential to ensuring peace and stability in Asia. The United States supports Mongolia's efforts to integrate itself into regional and international economic and financial structures.
President Bush and President Bagabandi also noted their common support for the permanent, thorough, and transparent dismantlement of nuclear programs on the Korean Peninsula. The United States acknowledges Mongolia's efforts to gain internationally recognized and legally binding nuclear weapon-free status to further enhance confidence-building measures in North East Asia.
President Bush welcomed Mongolia's commitment to combat international terrorism and applauded Mongolia's participation in the stabilization and reconstruction of Afghanistan and Iraq, including its peacekeeping commitment to the Multinational Force in Iraq. The United States and Mongolia agreed to continue working to advance Mongolia's contribution to international peacekeeping efforts. President Bush reaffirmed the U.S. willingness to continue bilateral programs of technical assistance consistent with Mongolia's long-term developmental goals. President Bagabandi expressed Mongolia's deep appreciation to the United States for its long-term support and economic assistance. The two Presidents agreed that the establishment of a free, democratic Iraq is important to democracy, peace and stability in the Middle East and the United Nations should play a leading role in the process.
The two Presidents agreed to actively promote bilateral trade and investment and noted signing of the United States-Mongolia Trade and Investment Framework Agreement during President Bagabandi's visit. The Presidents expressed the hope that this would lead in due course to a closer bilateral economic and trade relationship.
The two Presidents recognized that a U.S.-Mongolia relationship based on mutual respect and equitable partnership is in the national interest of both countries. They pledged to deepen and strengthen this important relationship and to work together to promote global freedom, peace, democracy and prosperity.
  