
    The Rudy Giuliani Presidential Committee today announced that Representatives Phil English and Jim Gerlach, of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, have endorsed Rudy Giuliani for President of the United States.
"Rudy Giuliani possesses the strong, proven leadership that our next President will need in order to build a coalition to lead our country forward," said English, who represents the state's 3rd District. "Mayor Giuliani has already held one of the toughest elected executive positions in America as New York City's Mayor, where he proved he is a real fiscal conservative."
Gerlach, of Pennsylvania's Sixth District, said: "Rudy Giuliani is the right man, at the right time to be our next President. He has unparalleled experience as a chief executive, having cut taxes 23 times while mayor and made government more efficient and responsive to its citizens. Mayor Giuliani holds an optimistic vision for our country, and I am proud to support his candidacy."
Reps. English and Gerlach join Rep. Charlie Dent, of Pennsylvania's 15th District, who endorsed Mayor Giuliani in February.
Representative Phil English, Pennsylvania's 3rd Congressional District
English was re-elected in 2006 to his seventh term serving western Pennsylvania's 3rd District, which includes Erie County and parts of Armstrong, Butler, Crawford, Mercer, Venango and Warren counties. English, 51, is a Republican and lifelong resident of Erie. He received a B.A. in Political Science from the University of Pennsylvania and is married to Chris English, a retired educator in the Erie public school system. English is a leading voice for economic growth and fair trade in Washington. In his first term, English became the first Freshman Republican to be appointed to the Ways and Means Committee in almost 30 years.
Representative Jim Gerlach, Pennsylvania's 6th Congressional District
Gerlach was first elected to the U.S. House of Representatives in 2002. Pennsylvania's 6th Congressional District stretches through the southeastern portion of the state, from Main Line to Berks and Chester Counties. Gerlach was born and raised in Ellwood City, Pennsylvania and graduated from Dickinson College in Carlisle. He is married to his wife Karen and has three children and three step-children. Gerlach is a member of the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee and Financial Services Committee.
  