
    Pool Reports by Austin Landis, Spectrum News DC 



Sent:
Reports:




July 13, 202116:44

VP pool report #1 - Pool rolling for meeting with TX legislators 
Good afternoon! I'll be your pooler for the vice president today for her meeting with Texas Democrats. The exact location of the meeting will be provided upon arrival.
Background from the VP's office:
The Vice President will meet today with the Texas legislators who broke quorum to block legislation that would have made it significantly harder for the people of Texas to vote.
Pool is rolling from the White House as of 4:34 PM.
We also spotted the Vice President talking with Gene Sperling outside the WH before leaving.
Feel free to reach out with questions.



July 13, 202116:45

VP pool report #2 - Arrival at AFT 
Location of the meeting is the American Federation of Teachers near the Capitol. Pool arrived at 4:40 PM. The meeting is already in progress but the VP is not inside the room yet.



July 13, 202117:04

VP pool report #3 - Inside the room 
There are more than 60 people seated around tables inside a conference room, some seated on the sides of the room. The group is mostly made up of the Texas Democrats who traveled here.
The VP entered the room at 4:47 wearing a brown suit and pearls. She got a standing ovation and applauded the people in the room as well.
"I wanted to stop by to say welcome and to say thank you."
"Defending the right to vote is as American as apple pie," she said to applause.
She spoke about all the historic moments people fought for the right to vote — women marching etc.
"In 2021, the Texas legislature came to D.C." she adds to the list.
"I'm thinking about that single parent who has his or her kids in the back seat and needs to be able to have a drive through or a drop box to vote."
"You are fighters," she tells the room. "I'm here to thank you and to have a conversation with you."
Will send fuller quotes when I can.



July 13, 202117:06

VP pool report #4 - Info on some participants 
The VP's office sends along info about the people seated next to the VP at the front of the room/conference tables:1. Rep. Chris Turner, TX House Democratic Caucus chair2. EMMY RUIZ, WH director of political strategy and outreach3. ADRIAN SAENZ, WH deputy director of OPE4. NATALIE MONTELONGO, WH deputy director of political strategy and outreachPool left the room at about 4:50 and is holding.



July 13, 202117:10

VP pool report #5 - Fuller quotes 
Sending along fuller quotes, please check pool feed:
"I know what you have done comes with great sacrifice, both personal and political."
"Defending the right of the American people to vote is as American as apple pie." (Applause)
"When I think about what you all have done, I'm going to just set this moment in the context of history. In 1867, Frederick Douglass appealed to the Congress, the United States Congress, for the right for black men to vote. 1913: women marched down Pennsylvania Avenue for the right to vote. 1965: Democrats and Republicans, stood for the absolute American principle of all people having the right to vote and passed the Voting Rights Act. And 2021: the Texas Legislature came to Washington, D.C." (Applause)
"This is not an issue about Democrats or Republicans. This is about Americans and how Americans are experiencing this issue."
"I have in mind that person was working two or three jobs and needs to have the ability to early vote. I'm thinking about that single parent who has his or her kids in the backseat and needs to be able to have a drive-thru or a dropbox to vote. I'm thinking about the American with disability who needs to have the option of voting by mail."
"This is what we're talking about. And you all know that. And you are fighters for exactly this point. And so I'm here to thank you and to have conversation with you."



July 13, 202117:39

VP pool report #6 - Correction on people at head of table and full list of participants 
The VP's office sends along a correction to the people at the head of the table, along with a full list of participants.
Head of table:
1. Rep. Chris Turner, Texas House Democratic Caucus Chair2. EMMY RUIZ, WH Director of political strategy and outreach3. VPOTUS4..NATALIE MONTELONGO, WH Deputy Director of political strategy and outreach
In the room:
• Alma Allen• Rafael Anchía• Carol Alvarado• Michelle Beckley• Diego Bernal• Rhetta Bowers• John Bucy• Liz Campos• Sheryl Cole• Nicole Collier• Phil Cortez• Jasmine Crockett• Yvonne Davis• Alex Dominguez• Joe Deshotel• Barbara Gervin-Hawkins• Jessica González• Vikki Goodwin• Rolando Gutierrez• Gina Hinojosa• Donna Howard• Celia Israel• Ann Johnson• Jarvis Johnson• Julie Johnson• Nathan Johnson• Ray Lopez• Eddie Lucio III• Trey Martinez Fischer• Armando Martinez• Jose Menendez• Terry Meza• Ina Minjarez• Joe Moody• Penny Morales Shaw• Christina Morales• Victoria Neave• Claudia Ordaz Perez• Lina Ortega• Beverly Powell• Mary Ann Perez• Ana Maria Ramos• Richard Raymond• Ron Reynolds• Eddie Rodriguez• Ramon Romero• Toni Rose• Jon Rosenthal• Carl Sherman• James Talarico• Senfronia Thompson• Chris Turner• Hubert Vo• Armando Walle• Royce west• Gene Wu• Erin Zwiener



July 13, 202117:42

VP pool report #7 - Pool rolling for WH, VP still meeting 
Pool was rolling for the WH as of 5:25 PM.
The VP was still inside the meeting room and was scheduled to depart separately.



July 13, 202118:08

VP pool report #8 - Meeting over 
The meeting ended at 5:41, per the VP's office, and pool is back at the White House.
Let me know if any other questions — good evening all!




  