
    As his Florida team continues to grow, Gov. Pawlenty today confirmed his participation in the Republican Party of Florida and FOX News Debate in Orlando on September 22nd. The Pawlenty for President campaign also announced that Slater Bayliss has endorsed Gov. Tim Pawlenty for president and will serve as Florida Co-Chair. In addition, Bret Prater will help lead Pawlenty for President's efforts on the ground in Florida.
"Our nation is facing big challenges, and President Obama has failed to rise to the occasion," Gov. Pawlenty said. "Our nation needs a leader who doesn't just talk but actually gets things done, and I am excited to present my record to voters to the RPOC and FOX News Debate."
In the months leading up to the debate, Pawlenty for President continues to gain new endorsements.
"Mr. Bayliss has a proven record of achievement in both the public and private sector, and I look forward to him leading my team to success in Florida," Gov. Pawlenty said. "We share a commitment to cutting spending and restoring fiscal discipline, and I am honored by his support."
"As the former director of 'Floridians for Responsible Spending,' I admire Gov. Pawlenty's unwavering dedication to reducing unnecessary spending," said Bayliss. "As governor of Minnesota, Pawlenty did not shy away from the oftentimes unpopular decisions necessary to balance the budget. Unlike President Obama, Pawlenty will make tough choices to spur economic growth and increase jobs."
Slater Bayliss is a Partner in The Advocacy Group at Cardenas Partners, a political and government affairs firm which represents businesses and organizations before the Florida Legislature and State agencies. Bayliss previously served as Executive Director of "Floridians for Responsible Spending." The political committee was successful in mounting Florida's first statewide campaign to repeal a mandate from Florida's State Constitution. He has also worked in Gov. Jeb Bush's office of Tourism, Trade and Economic Development, served as Director of the Republican Party of Florida's Committee of 100, their highest donor level, and was a Bush-Cheney 2004 Maverick and Victory 2004 Clean-up hitter. Bayliss began his political career with the Republican Governors' Association in 1996, and he also worked on Jeb Bush's gubernatorial race in 1998 and George W. Bush for President Iowa straw poll effort in 1999.
Bret Prater will also help to lead Gov. Pawlenty's efforts in Florida.
"Gov. Pawlenty is an extraordinary leader who was able to make real conservative change in a traditionally liberal state," Prater said. "I look forward to familiarizing Floridians with his record of results."
Bret Prater has been involved in Florida grassroots campaigning for close to a decade. Prater organized grassroots in Miami during Bush/Brogan 02, served as a Regional Victory Director in the panhandle during Bush/Cheney 04 and has managed statewide projects for the Republican Party for the past three election cycles. Bret Prater most recently served as the Political Director of the Republican Party of Florida for the 2010 election cycle. As Political Director, Prater served as the Florida Victory Director, managed Congressional Affairs and worked with the statewide campaigns and grassroots leaders around the state."
  