
    The following listing includes the President's daily schedule and other items of general interest as announced by the White House Press Office during the period covered by this issue. Events and announcements printed elsewhere in the issue are not included.
July 8
The President has declared an emergency for the State of North Dakota because of the impact of severe storms and tornadoes which struck Grant County on July 4 and 5.
The President has declared a major disaster for the State of Wisconsin as a result of severe storms and flooding, hail, and tornadoes, beginning on or about June 25, which caused extensive public and private property damage.
The President declared a major disaster for the State of Minnesota as a result of severe storms and flooding, hail, and tornadoes, beginning on or about June 25, which caused extensive public and private property damage.
July 9
The President returned to the White House after a week's stay at Camp David, Md.
July 10
The President met at the White House with:
—Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs;
—Frank B. Moore, Assistant to the President for Congressional Liaison;
—Senate Majority Leader Robert C. Byrd;
—the Cabinet;
—Lt. Gov. and Mrs. Richard F. Celeste of Ohio;
—Vice President Walter F. Mondale. The President transmitted to the Congress the Special Report on Multilateral Export Controls.
The President participated in a foreign policy briefing for Members of Congress at the White House. Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance, Secretary of Defense Harold Brown, and Dr. Brzezinski also participated in the discussions.
July 11
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Mr. Moore;
—the Democratic congressional leadership;
—a group of Congressmen to discuss intelligence matters;
—Senator Dick Clark of Iowa;
—Vice President Mondale, Adm. Stansfield Turner, Director of Central Intelligence, Hamilton Jordan, Assistant to the President, and Dr. Brzezinski.
The President transmitted the following reports to the Congress:
—the 10th Annual Report of the National Advisory Council on Economic Opportunity;
—the 1977 Annual Report of the United States-Japan Cooperative Medical Science Program.
July 12
The President met at the White House with:
—Representative Morris K. Udall of Arizona;
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Senator Quentin N. Burdick of North Dakota, Representatives Harold T. Johnson of California and Robert A. Roe of New Jersey, and administration officials to discuss urban policy;
—Senators John C. Stennis of Mississippi, Thomas J. Mcintyre of New Hampshire, Henry M. Jackson of Washington, and Sam Nunn of Georgia;
—Frank Press, Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy, who reported on his mission to the People's Republic of China.
The President attended a portion of the breakfast held for Members of Congress in the State Dining Room at the White House to discuss the situation in Turkey and Greece.
The President transmitted the following reports to the Congress: —the annual report of the Commodity Credit Corporation for the fiscal year ended September 30, 1977;
—the annual report on the Alaska Railroad for fiscal year 1977;
—the Ninth Annual Report of the National Corporation for Housing Partnerships and the National Housing Partnership.
The White House announced that President Carter's mother, Lillian Carter, will visit the Sahel region of West Africa as an emissary of the President from July 17 to August 2. Her journey will express the President's deep interest in the problem of world hunger, the disparity between rich and poor, and the role of women in the development process. On her way to the Sahel, Mrs. Carter will stop in Paris, to meet with representatives of the Club du Sahel at the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, and Rome, to receive the Ceres Medal from the Director-General of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations.
July 13
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Mr. Moore.
  