
    Pool Reports by Jim Puzzanghera, The Boston Globe 



Sent:
Reports:




July 14, 2023 09:31

In-town pool report #1
Good morning from a quiet White House, where the only thing on the president's schedule at this point is his departure with the First Lady for Camp David at 1:30 p.m. We have a brunch lid until 1 p.m. 


July 14, 2023 13:20

In-town pool report #2--gather for departure
Pool is gathering for the president's departure to Camp David. 


July 14, 2023 13:34

In-town pool report #3 — departure
The President and First Lady boarded Marine One at 1:29 pm. The President did not stop to answe pool questions, taking the Firsr Lady's hand as they walked into the South Lawn. Marine One lifted off for Camp David at 1:33 pm.


July 14, 2023 13:38

In-town pool report #4--Marine One passengers
White House press office passes this along.
Traveling with the President and the First Lady aboard Marine One en route to Camp David:
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff Curtis Ried, Deputy Assistant to the President & NSC Chief of Staff & Executive Secretary Ashley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office Operations Jordan Montoya, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the First Lady 


July 14, 2023 14:45

In-town pool report #5--Camp David arrival
From the press office.
The President and the First Lady arrived at Camp David at 2:07 PM. 


July 14, 2023 20:38

In-town pool report #6--Week ahead
The White House press office shared this tonight.
Week Ahead
On Sunday, the President and the First Lady will return to the White House from Camp David.
On Tuesday, the President will welcome President Isaac Herzog of Israel to the White House. As Israel celebrates its 75th anniversary, the visit will highlight our enduring partnership and friendship. The President will reaffirm the ironclad commitment of the United States to Israel's security. The two leaders will discuss opportunities to deepen Israel's regional integration and to create a more peaceful and prosperous Middle East.
On Wednesday, the President will convene a meeting of his Competition Council to announce new actions by his Administration to increase competition in the American economy, lower prices for consumers, and help entrepreneurs and small businesses thrive—a key pillar of Bidenomics. The Council will mark its two-year anniversary and fifth meeting since the President established it in his Executive Order on Promoting Competition in the American Economy.
In the evening, the President and the First Lady will host the White House Congressional Picnic on the South Lawn. The Vice President will attend. 



  