
    The following list does not include promotions of members of the Uniformed Services, nominations to the Service Academies, or nominations of Foreign Service officers.
Submitted July 21
Leigh A. Bradley, of Virginia, to be General Counsel, Department of Veterans Affairs, vice Mary Lou Keener, resigned.
Scott Richard Lassar, of Illinois, to be U.S. Attorney for the Northern District of Illinois, vice James B. Burns, resigned.
Sylvia M. Mathews, of West Virginia, to be Deputy Director of the Office of Management and Budget, vice Jacob Joseph Lew.
Robert C. Randolph, of Washington, to be an Assistant Administrator of the Agency for International Development, vice Margaret V.W. Carpenter, resigned.
Bernard Daniel Rostker, of Virginia, to be Under Secretary of the Army, vice Robert M. Walker.
James A. Tassone, of Florida, to be U.S. Marshal for the Southern District of Florida for the term of 4 years, vice Daniel J. Horgan.
John Melvin Yates, of Washington, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Equatorial Guinea.
Ritajean Hartung Butterworth, of Washington, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for Public Broadcasting for a term expiring January 31, 2004 (reappointment).
Thomasina V. Rogers, of Maryland, to be a member of the Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission for a term expiring April 27, 2003, vice Velma Montoya, term expired.
Withdrawn July 21
Thomasina V. Rogers, of Maryland, to be a member of the Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission for the remainder of the term expiring April 27, 2001, vice Daniel Guttman, which was sent to the Senate on June 24, 1998.
Bernard Daniel Rostker, of Virginia, to be an Assistant Secretary of Defense, vice Frederick F.Y. Pang, resigned, which was sent to the Senate on April 2, 1998.
James E. Newsome, of Mississippi, to be a Commissioner of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission for the term expiring June 19, 2001, vice Joseph B. Dial, term expired.
Howard Hikaru Tagomori, of Hawaii, to be U.S. Marshal for the District of Hawaii for the term of 4 years, vice Annette L. Kent, term expired.
  