
    Donald J. Trump for President, Inc. hosted 'The Right View' featuring Trump 2020 Senior Advisor Lara Trump, National Chair of Trump Victory Finance Committee Kimberly Guilfoyle, Trump 2020 Senior Advisor for Strategic Communications Mercedes Schlapp, Trump 2020 Senior Advisor Katrina Pierson, and Founding Partner of the Arete Center Dr. Scott Schmidt.
The participants discussed Joe Biden's recent adoption of the Democrat Party's radical left wing agenda, from his complete surrender to teachers unions to his plans to destroy the American energy industry. They condemned prominent Democrats who have embraced 'cancel culture,' and are willing to attack anyone who deviates from their socialist ideology. The panel reminded voters of the need to re-elect President Trump to defeat the radical left, and encouraged all viewers to support the President in November.

CLICK HERE TO WATCH
"Children across the country rely on their schools to provide access to the resources they need. As a mother of two, I have seen the negative impact of long term school closures on our children," said Lara Trump, Trump 2020 Senior Advisor. "While President Trump is fighting fiercely to re-open our schools, Joe Biden and the Democrats are desperately fear-mongering to push their socialist agenda over the needs of children."
"Joe Biden's trillion-dollar unity plan is nothing more than a deranged attempt to satisfy the radical demands of the Democrat Party while destroying the working class and demolishing the American dream," said Kimberly Guilfoyle, National Chair of Trump Victory Finance Committee. "It is clearer now more than ever: we need four more years of President Trump to ensure prosperity and opportunity for the American people."
"The radical left is dedicated to punishing anyone who does not conform completely to their socialist worldview, whether it be parents who want to send their children back to school in defiance of teachers unions, or the Hispanic CEO of Goya Foods who happened to praise President Trump," said Mercedes Schlapp, Trump 2020 Senior Advisor for Strategic Communications. "The only way to end 'cancel culture' is by re-electing President Trump – Joe Biden simply does not have the backbone to stand up to his far-left base."
"The Democrat Party's radical push to keep our schools closed this fall will harm minority children who do not have access or the resources to learn online," said Katrina Pierson, Trump 2020 Senior Advisor. "Joe Biden's political agenda will cost our nation's children their fundamental right to an education and we cannot allow it to prevail. While Joe Biden and the far left use our nation's crises for their own personal gain, President Trump is out front, ensuring students are back in the classroom and leading the Great American Comeback."
"Joe Biden's mission to ban students from returning to a safe learning environment this school year puts children's future success and overall well-being at risk," said Dr. Scott Schmidt, Founding Partner of the Arete Center. "President Trump's push to re-open America's schools is based on science, and the numbers prove that children are at an overwhelmingly high risk of developing mental health issues if they are not engaged in a productive classroom setting. The choice is clear, to redeem the health and safety of children and working parents across the country, schools must reopen."
  