
    Pool Reports by Jacquelyne Germain, Chicago Sun-Times 



Sent:
Reports:




July 16, 2023 12:57 CDT

VP travel pool report #1/Chicago remarks - wheels down
VP landed at 12:57pm at Midway International Airport.


July 16, 2023 13:13 CDT

VP travel pool report #2/Chicago remarks
VP disembarked AF2 under a hazy sky as Chicago is under an air quality alert related to the Canadian wildfires. She was greeted by Congresswoman Delia Ramirez (D-IL-03) and Congresswoman Robin Kelly (D-IL-02). The group laughed together. The motorcade left at 1:12pm for the Rainbow PUSH Convention at the Apostolic Church of God.
****Also correction wheels down was actually at 12:56pm.


July 16, 2023 13:45 CDT

VP travel pool report #3/Chicago remarks - Arrival at PUSH Convention
VP arrived at the Rainbow PUSH Convention at the Apostolic Church of God at 1:40 pm.


July 16, 2023 15:33 CDT

VP travel pool report #4/Chicago remarks - Arrival at PUSH Convention
VP began speaking at the Rainbow PUSH Convention at the Apostolic Church of God at 3:00 pm about the legacy and work of Rev. Jesse Jackson over the decades. She commended the civil rights work he has done as part of the Rainbow PUSH Coalition and beyond. She spoke of how Rev. Jackson ran for president in 1984 and 1988 and won various primaries across the country, paving the way for President Barack Obama and her as VP. She spoke of the significance of Rev. Jackson's work amid a time in the country where "extremist leaders" are attacking bodily autonomy, affirmative action, voting rights and student debt relief. She also referenced book bans and how they limit students from learning the full truth of U.S. history. The speech ended at about 3:19 pm (spoke for about 20 minutes) and was met by applause throughout the church.
***Motorcade en route to Midway International Airport at 3:31 pm.
***Notable quotes to come


July 16, 2023 15:56 CDT

VP travel pool report #5/ Chicago remarks - Quotes from PUSH Convention
Notable quotes from the VP at the Rainbow PUSH Coalition Event:
"So today, we celebrate one of America's greatest patriots. Someone who deeply believes in the promise of our country."
"At the core of Rev.'s work is the belief that the diversity of our nation is not a weakness or an afterthought, but instead, our greatest strength."
"Early on, he even had the audacity to name this coalition the National Rainbow Coalition. He defined the rainbow. He was one of the first to define the rainbow. A coalition to push the values of democracy and liberty and equality and justice, not from the top down but from the bottom up and the outside in. He has built coalitions that expanded who has a voice and a seat at the table."
"Across our country, we are witnessing hard fought hard won freedoms under full on attack by extremist, so called leaders. These extremists have an agenda, an agenda to divide us as a nation, an agenda to attack the importance of diversity and equity and inclusion and the unity of the Rainbow Coalition."
" These extremists banned books in the year of our Lord 2023. They ban books and prevent the teaching of America's full history. All the while they refuse reasonable gun safety laws to keep our children safe. Understand what's happening."
"Fueled by the love of our country, just as Rev. has done his entire career, let us keep hope alive"
"We congratulate you Rev., on your pivot" - Referencing Jackson stepping down not as a retirement, but a pivot
***Not a quote but she referenced her law school days and how she drove a Toyota Corolla and had a "Jesse Jackson for President" bumper sticker on the back of er car and would always get honks and thumbs ups from other drivers supporting the message


July 16, 202316:33 CDT

VP travel pool report #6 / Chicago remarks - wheels up
Motorcade arrived at Midway International Airport at around 3:55 pm. Wheels up on AF2 at 4:31 pm.



  