
    STATEMENT OF ADMINISTRATION POLICY
(House Rules)(Roe (D) New Jersey)
The administration opposes enactment of H.R. 2782, unless it is amended to:

— Delete section 106 which requires the NASA Administrator to award to domestic firms contracts that would have been awarded to foreign firms under the use of competitive procedures. This provision could violate the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade Agreement on Government Procurement and could subject the United States to significant retaliation by other countries. It also could needlessly increase procurement costs.
— Delete section 201(b) which is ambiguous and may be misconstrued to place restrictions on the use of the Space Station for military purposes which do not exist under present law or treaty obligations. To the extent that this section merely reaffirms current law and treaty obligations, it is unnecessary.
— Delete sections 207, 208 and 302 which seriously restrict the administration's flexibility to review and manage the space program, by requiring certain plans and agreements concerning cost, development and operation of the space station, and terms and conditions for users of launch services, to be subject to prior congressional review for specified periods.
— Modify section 107 to ensure that it does not undermine the President's policy to encourage the development of a U.S. expendable launch vehicle industry, an administration policy stated in National Security Decision Directive 254.
— Delete the $45 million appropriations authorization and the authorization for the transfer of $35 million in section 101 for the Advanced Communications Technology Satellite (ACTS) which the administration has proposed to eliminate because this activity can be more appropriately and effectively undertaken by the private sector.
— Modify the appropriations authorization in section 101(a)(5) to delete the commitment to the launch of the Lunar Polar Orbiter in 1994, because it is inconsistent with the 1988 Budget.
— Restore reprogramming provisions proposed by the administration to permit flexibility in meeting both routine and unforeseen facilities requirements.
— Delete the limitation upon obligation of funds until 20 legislative days following submission of an operating plan to Congress.
— Delete section 110 which requires that a competition for a redesigned solid rocket motor be initiated. This provision unacceptably restricts the ability of the administration to decide on the most efficient and cost effective means to provide solid rocket motors for the space shuttle program.
— Delete sections 202 and 203 which place "caps" on the capital development and operations costs of the Space Station. Such caps would not facilitate fiscal or program stability for the Space Station or balance among NASA programs. The Administration believes that cost control for the Space Station program is essential and will continue to explore with the Congress the most appropriate way to achieve such control. 
  