
    Pool Reports by Rachael Devaney, Cape Cod Times 



Sent:
Reports:




July 22, 202317:04

FLOTUS Print Pool #1 - Nantucket
Jill Biden, first lady of the United States, continued a quick fundraising tour in Massachusetts Saturday by stopping at the Nantucket home of Andrew and Jessica Nigrelli.
Biden addressed about 67 people during the lawn party fundraising event, which was held to support the Biden Victory Fund and the Biden-Harris reelection campaign.
As the sun beat down on the oceanfront home, Biden invited guests to join her on the covered porch, where she was standing to give her speech.
"Well don't melt," she said to the crowd. "I'm used to people surrounding me, so honestly, please come join me."
Throughout the roughly 15-minute speech, Biden spoke about her husband's accomplishments, and said Joe Biden has brought citizens back from the chaos of the last administration.
"He has lifted up our communities like never before by creating the most diverse cabinet in history," said Biden. "By putting Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson on the Supreme Court and appointing the first woman archivist of the United States."
Biden also touched upon the 2021 $1 trillion Bipartisan Infrastructure Deal, which prioritized funds to rebuild America's roads, bridges and rails, expand access to clean drinking water, increase access to high-speed internet, tackle the climate crisis, and advance environmental justice, according to a White House press release.
The legislation also aims to help ease inflationary pressures and strengthen supply chains by making improvements for America's ports, airports, rail, and roads.
"Again and again, he's kept his promises," said Biden. "With his leadership, his administration created 13 million jobs and led a manufacturing boom. I'm going all over the country talking about investing in America."
During her speech, Biden also mentioned common sense gun legislation, which passed under Joe Biden in 2022. The bill includes incentives for states to pass red flag laws that allow groups to petition courts to remove weapons from people deemed a threat to themselves or others.
Biden was also happy to speak about her love for Nantucket, and the 48 years her family spent holidays on the island.
"Maybe you've seen us at the annual Christmas tree lighting or maybe joined Joe and our grandchildren during the polar bear plunge," she said. "Our son Beau was married here at St. Mary's many years ago."
When Beau Biden died in 2015, it was the only year the Bidens skipped their holiday trip. Biden's voice quavered when she talked about their return to the island the year after.
"Almost every store had signs in the widows that read: welcome back Bidens," she said. "It makes me feel emotional."
With Biden by her side, Jessica Nigrelli said Nantucket residents also have love for the Bidens. The first time she met Joe and Jill Biden, Nigrelli said she and her family were waving to the presidential convoy as it passed through their neighborhood.
"The motorcade suddenly stopped, and the car door opened. There was the president and first lady of the U.S.," said Nigrelli. "My three-year-old ran and through herself into the arms of the president. He scooped her up like they were old friends."
During the same meeting, Nigrelli's 8-year-old slowly stepped forward and said, "Mr. President, I have something that you have. And he said enthusiastically, 'what's that?' And she said, 'I have a stutter too,' said Nigrelli.
Joe Biden's whole expression changed, she said.
"He put his hands on her shoulders, looked straight into her eyes and said, 'Remember this. It doesn't define you. I've had a stutter my whole life and now I'm the president of the United States. You can be anything you want to be,'" Nigrelli recounted.
Nigrelli said Joe Biden then shared advice with her daughter and told her about quick tricks he uses when words get stuck, she said.
"Since that day, my daughter has been less afraid to raise her hand in class and less afraid to use her voice," said Nigrelli.
As the vice president and the president of the U.S., Nigrelli said Joe Biden has led the country with decency, empathy, and competency.
"This is who they are, and this is why we fight to keep them in the White House," she said. "They have kept their promise to lead not only by the example of our power but by the power of our example."
As Biden finished her speech, she reminded the crowd that differences between one another are precious and similarities are infinite.
"Our community and our country is capable of beautiful and powerful things," she said. "And that's exactly what we've seen in the last few years.



  