
    Today, Romney for President released a new web video, "The Best Of America." It wasn't too long ago that the quiet heroes of this land walked tall with the pride of knowing that they lived in a country like no other. On this Independence Day, we celebrate that sense of American optimism and recommit ourselves to bringing that feeling back to us once again.
To View "The Best Of America" Please See: http://mi.tt/MSIaX7
AD FACTS: Script For "The Best Of America"
VOICEOVER: "I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America. And to the Republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all."
MITT ROMNEY: "Everywhere I go, I meet people who represent the best of America. They are hopeful, hard-working, determined and proud."

MITT ROMNEY: "Everywhere I go, I meet people who represent the best of America. They are hopeful, hard-working, determined and proud." (Mitt Romney, Remarks, Stratham, NH, 6/15/12)

MITT ROMNEY: "These Americans are quiet heroes. They raise strong families, run our factories, and grow our food. They coach Little League and soccer. They serve on the PTA. Their volunteers help our neighbors. And they dream big dreams..."

MITT ROMNEY: "These Americans are quiet heroes. They raise strong families, run our factories, and grow our food. They coach Little League and soccer. They serve on the PTA. Their volunteers help our neighbors. And they dream big dreams — sometimes for themselves, but mostly for their kids." (Mitt Romney, Remarks, Stratham, NH, 6/15/12)

MITT ROMNEY: "The vision and the values, the character and the can-do spirit that you find in our small towns have made America great."

MITT ROMNEY: "The vision and the values, the character and the can-do spirit that you find in our small towns have made America great." (Mitt Romney, Remarks, Stratham, NH, 6/15/12)

MITT ROMNEY: "This is the America known for thriving farms and factories. For prosperous towns and cities and great colleges and universities. For solid communities and churches. All of them born out of American optimism; nourished and sustained by hard work and a belief that the American future is one of the limitless possibilities and that opportunity is an American birthright."

MITT ROMNEY: "This is the America known for thriving farms and factories. For prosperous towns and cities and great colleges and universities. For solid communities and churches. All of them born out of American optimism; nourished and sustained by hard work and a belief that the American future is one of the limitless possibilities and that opportunity is an American birthright." (Mitt Romney, Remarks, Stratham, NH, 6/15/12)

MITT ROMNEY: "There was a time — not so long ago — when each of us could walk a little taller and stand a little straighter because we had a gift that no one else in the world shared. We were Americans."

MITT ROMNEY: "There was a time — not so long ago — when each of us could walk a little taller and stand a little straighter because we had a gift that no one else in the world shared. We were Americans." (Mitt Romney, Remarks, Stratham, NH, 6/15/12)

WOMAN: "It's a celebration of what we have the opportunity to do every day."
MITT ROMNEY: "We knew it without question. And so did the world."

MITT ROMNEY: "We knew it without question. And so did the world." (Mitt Romney, Remarks, Stratham, NH, 6/15/12)

WOMAN: "It makes me think about all the people that came before me who fought, so that I could have this freedom."
MAN: "The spirit that has brought this country together."
MITT ROMNEY: "Those days are coming back. That's our destiny."

MITT ROMNEY: "Those days are coming back. That's our destiny." (Mitt Romney, Remarks, Stratham, NH, 6/15/12)

MAN: "There's no place in the world that I'd like to live other than where I am, in America."
MITT ROMNEY: "[F]rom now until November, our campaign will carry a simple message: America's greatest days are yet ahead."

MITT ROMNEY: "That's why, from now until November, our campaign will carry a simple message: America's greatest days are yet ahead." (Mitt Romney, Remarks, Stratham, NH, 6/15/12)

VIDEO TEXT: "July 4, 2012"
  