
    The President today announced that he will appoint the 11 members of the President's Commission for the Study of Ethical Problems in Medicine and Biomedical and Behavioral Research.
This Commission was created in November 1978 by Public Law 95-622 to study issues such as the definition of death, genetic testing and counseling, and the differences in the availability of health services depending on income or residence.The members announced today are:Morris Abram, a New York attorney and former president of Brandeis University. Abram was U.S. Representative to the United Nations Commission on Human Rights for 4 years and has served as a member of the Mt. Sinai Hospital Human Subjects Review Panel. He will be nominated as Chairman of this Commission.
Renee Claire Fox, professor of sociology at the University of Pennsylvania, a medical sociologist who has written extensively on allocation of health resources. She is a member of the ethics committee of the Institute of Medicine, and of the Institute of Social Ethics and Life Sciences.
Mario Garcia-Palmieri, professor and head of the department of medicine of the University of Puerto Rico. He was formerly secretary of health for Puerto Rico and is chairman of the Latino Caucus of the American Congress of Cardiology.
Albert Rupert Jonsen, professor of ethics in medicine at the University of California School of Medicine at San Francisco, and chairman of the bioethics group for the five University of California schools of medicine. He served as a member of HEW's National Commission for the Protection of Human Subjects of Biomedical and Behavioral Research for 4 years.
Patricia A. King, associate professor of law at Georgetown University. She is a member of the National Commission for the Protection of Human Subjects of Biomedical and Behavioral Research, the Institute of Society, Ethics and the Life Sciences, and the Washington Area Seminar on Science, Technology and Ethics.
Mathilde Krim, an associate member of the Sloan-Kettering Institute for Cancer Research and coordinator of its International Laboratories for the Molecular Biology of Interferon Systems. She is on the board of directors of the National Biomedical Research Foundation, and is a member of the National Endowment for the Humanities' advisory committee on science, technology, and human values.
Donald N. Medearis, chief of children's service at Massachusetts General Hospital and Charles Wilder professor of pediatrics at Harvard University. He is a specialist in infectious diseases of children.Arno G. Motulsky, professor of medicine and genetics and director of the Center for Inherited Diseases at the University of Washington. He is an expert in genetics who has been responsible for many advances in genetic screening, testing, counseling, and education programs.
Fritz C. Redlich, professor of psychiatry at the University of California at Los Angeles, and former director of the Behavioral Sciences Center at Yale University.
Anne A. Scitovsky, chief of the health economics division of the Palo Alto Medical Research Foundation and an expert on the economics of medical care. She is a consultant to the National Center for Health Services Research.
Charles J. Walker, a Nashville, Tenn., doctor in private medical practice. He is on the board of governors of the Matthew Walker Community Health Center, and the board of trustees of Fisk University.
  