
    Pool Reports by David Smith, The Guardian 



Sent:
Reports:




July 21, 2023 09:15

WH in-town pool report #1/ Brunch lid until 1pm
Hi everyone,
The White House has called a brunch lid until 1pm.
The press office also sent out the following:
'President Biden and First Lady Jill Biden have shared a message of support for Team USA on the North Lawn of the White House ahead of their first match in the 2023 Women's World Cup.' 


July 21, 2023 13:18

WH in-town pool report 2/ Pool gathers
Pool has gathered in the Roosevelt Room for POTUS's remarks on artificial intelligence. Two minute warning.


July 21, 2023 13:22

WH in-town pool report #3/ Remarks under way
After a reporter jokingly asked tech executives whether they were real or AI, POTUS entered the room and quipped: "I'm the AI."
His remarks are under way and streaming on the White House website.


July 21, 2023 13:29

WH in-town pool report #4/ No responses to reporters' questions
POTUS spoke about AI for around five minutes and then left the room without responding to a question from the pool. Some colour to follow. 


July 21, 2023 13:52

WH in-town pool report #5/ Tech leaders at POTUS remarks
From the White House:
'In attendance for the President's remarks on Artificial Intelligence:
Brad Smith, President of Microsoft Kent Walker, President of Google Dario Amodei, CEO of Anthropic Mustafa Suleyman, CEO of Inflection AI Nick Clegg, President of Meta Greg Brockman, President of OpenAI Adam Selipsky, CEO of Amazon Web Services' 


July 21, 2023 14:02

WH in-town pool report #6/ Colour and quotations from POTUS remarks
After a reporter jokingly asked leaders of seven tech companies whether they were real or AI, POTUS entered the Roosevelt Room at 1.20pm and quipped: "I'm the AI," prompting laughter. He then made a joke that was not totally clear at the time or on playback. To me it sounds like: "Say any mistake I make, blame it on the AI." (You can check here at 4 mins 30 secs: https://www.whitehouse.gov/live)
Wearing a blue suit, white shirt and blue tie, POTUS then stood behind the presidential lectern and spoke about AI for five and a half minutes. The remarks included: "Artificial intelligence promises an enormous, enormous promise of both risk to our society and our economy and our national security but also incredible opportunities."
He said the seven companies present have agreed to voluntary commitments for responsible innovation. "Realising the promise of AI by managing the risk is going to require some new laws, regulations and oversight. In the weeks ahead I'm going to continue to take executive action to help America lead the way towards responsible innovation. And we're going to work with both parties to develop appropriate legislation and regulation."
When POTUS finished, Kelly O'Donnell of NBC News asked him about the hacking of cabinet officials by China but he continued walking towards the door and exited without responding. The seven tech company leaders – all men, all wearing suits and ties – followed him out of the room. 


July 21, 2023 14:17

WH in-town pool report #7/ Lid
A lid was called at 2.15pm. 


July 21, 2023 22:47

WH in-town pool report #8/ Week ahead
The White House sent the following:
'Week Ahead 7/21
On Thursday, the President will welcome Prime Minister Giorgia Meloni of Italy to the White House to reaffirm the strong relationship between the United States and Italy. They will discuss our common strategic interests, including our shared commitment to continue supporting Ukraine in the face of Russia's aggression, developments in North Africa, and closer transatlantic coordination regarding the People's Republic of China. They will also discuss Italy's upcoming presidency of the G7 in 2024.
In the evening the President will deliver remarks at the Truman Civil Rights Symposium at the National Archives.
On Friday, the President will travel to Maine.
In the evening, the President will depart Maine en route to Rehoboth Beach, Delaware where he will remain over the weekend.'
Goodnight all. 



  