
    Pool Reports by Nikki Schwab, Daily Mail



Sent:
Reports:




 July 26, 2020 14:25

 Travel Pool Report No. 1 - stop with supporters 
President Trump's motorcade departed Trump National Golf Club Bedminster at 2:11 p.m.
At 2:20 p.m. the president stepped out of this SUV. "Thank you," the president could be heard saying. He wasn't wearing a mask and had a white ballcap on. He tossed out red hats to a group of 50 or so supporters gathered behind a large white banner with red letters that said: "thank you Mr. President for making America great!"
As of 2:21 p.m. we're already back in the press vans and rolling. More details TK. 


 July 26, 2020 14:33

 Travel Pool Report No. 2 - return 
The presidential motorcade arrived back at Trump National Golf Club Bedminster at 2:30 p.m.
A few more details from Trump's brief stop with supporters:
They were gathered at an intersection in the town of Bedminster several miles away from the golf club.
White House aide John McEntee was spotted carrying the red hats that said "Keep America Great," which the president tossed into the crowd.
The president stayed about six feet away from supporters.
The president was wearing a "Make America Great Again" hat that had a "45" written on the side. 


 July 26, 2020 16:33

 Travel Pool Report No. 3 - Morristown departure 
Marine One landed at Morristown Municipal Airport at 4:25 p.m.
The president was wheels up from Bedminster at 4:12 p.m., pool was told.
President Trump exited Marine One at 4:30 p.m. He's still wearing the white ballcap and a suit. He gave a thumbs up and mouthed something to the pool, but unclear what he said. He's with Jared and Ivanka, who was wearing a white and pink floral outfit.
He boarded Air Force One at 4:31 p.m.
An agent was spotted wiping down the railings of the staircase the president would use to board Air Force One before his arrival.
Your pooler has reached out to the White House for additional details on how the president spent his day and will pass those along as necessary.
We'll be wheels up to JBA shortly. 


 July 26, 2020 17:36

 Travel Pool Report No. 4 - JBA arrival 
Air Force One was wheels up at 4:42 p.m. We landed at Joint Base Andrews at 5:19 p.m.
The president emerged from Air Force One at 5:28 p.m. He's still in the ballcap. He again gave a thumbs up and mouthed something inaudible to the pool.
He was followed off the plane by John McEntee and then Jared Kushner and Ivanka Trump. None were wearing masks.
Marine One was wheels up at 5:35 p.m.
During the flight, part of the pool was able to spy Ivanka Trump wearing a face mask on board the plane. She didn't have one on when she arrived.
Thanks to co-pooler Toluse Olorunnipa for the assistance during our quick stop in Bedminster today.
Turning it over to the in-town pool. Have a great Sunday night, all! 




Pool Reports below by Catherine Lucey, The Wall Street Journal



Sent:
Reports:




 July 26, 2020 17:53

 In-Town Pool Report #1 - White House Arrival/ Lid 
Marine One landed at the White House at 5:45 PM. President Trump exited a few minutes later, wearing a dark suit and a white baseball cap.
The president did not stop to answer questions and entered the White House
He was followed by Jared Kushner and Ivanka Trump. Kushner was in a suit and Ivanka Trump a floral dress and a mask.
At 5:50 PM the White House called a travel/photo lid. Have a good night. 



  