
    Pool Reports by Jessica Floyd, TheGrio 



Sent:
Reports:




July 8, 2021 10:57

VP Pool Report #1 - Voting Rights Event Check In 
Good morning all,
Your pooler is checked in at Howard University and now awaits Vice President Harris' remarks on voting rights.
The Democratic National Committee is hosting today's event.
Your pooler has not received the complete attendance/guest list, however she took note of groups like Casa in Action and SEIU 32BJ waiting on line for access to the event.
More tk, but feel free to send questions to your pooler. 


July 8, 202112:16

VP Pool #2 - Jaime Harrison Comments
Your pooler spotted the DNC Chairman, Jaime Harrison just before the event began.
He said the DNC is "all in" the fight to protect voting rights.
"The Vice President, very shortly is going to announce some some programs, and we are really excited to continue to do the thing that the DNC has done for so many years and that is to protect the right of all voters," Harrison added.
Please note that the event will be livestreamed on the Vice President's Twitter account: @kamalaharris.


July 8, 202112:45

VP Pool Report #3: Background on VP remarks
The DNC provided this additional background on the DNC's voting rights efforts:
Vice President Harris will announce a $25 million expansion of the DNC's 'I Will Vote' initiative on Thursday at Howard University. The DNC initiative aims to address and overcome efforts across the country to make voting more difficult and burdensome.
At the President and Vice President's direction, the DNC will invest $25 million in voter education, voter protection, targeted voter registration, and technololgy to make voting more accessible.
There will be a gaggle with DNC Chairman Harrison after the event in addition to the exclusive he granted to your pooler (please see pool note #2 for his comments).


July 8, 202115:01

VP Pool Report #4 - Event Begins + VP Remarks
?The event began at 12:47 pm. The Vice President's remarks will start at approximately 1:03 pm (oer two minute warning) following the National Anthem and Lift Every Voice and remarks from the Director of Civic Engagement and Voter Protection for the DNC.
For additional color: Donna Brazile is also in attendance.


July 8, 202114:59

VP Pool Report #5 - VP Remarks + corrections
Correction to pool report #4: VP Harris took stage at 1:15 pm following an additional speech from DNC Chairman Harris and an introduction from the Chief of Staff of the Howard Student Association, Kylie Burke (a former Congressional intern of then-Senator Harris' office).
Additional color: The Vice President participated in a traditional Howard University call and response chant as she greeted attendees.
"H-U," the crowd chanted. "You know," the Vice President replied. Throughout the remarks, the Vice President encouraged and engaged the attendees through call and responses to carry her message.
VP remarks focused on guaranteeing all eligible voters' access to the ballot. She also highlighted the funding sent to Americans during the pandemic, monthly checks fir the child tax credit and other things the administration is doing "because you voted."
"In 2020, you were heard America," the Vice President said. "But there's another side of the story."
The Vice President went on to detail the challenges of new restrictive voting laws.
"It is never to early to defend your rights," Vice President Harris says to people who say they just voted in 2020. 



  