
    JOHNSTON, Iowa — Yesterday, First Lady Casey DeSantis launched 'Mamas for DeSantis,' the largest movement of parents in our nation's political history. See the highlights from the launch event below.
Watch the event HERE.
On the inspiration behind Mamas for DeSantis:
"We are going to launch the largest mobilization of moms and grandmothers across the United States of America to protect the innocence of our children and to protect the rights of parents...never back down. And always stay true to what you believe in. Because at the end of the day, you look at yourself in the mirror, and you say, 'I did it right.' I wake up in the morning and I'm knowing I'm doing it for the right reasons- for our children and for our families."
On Why Ron DeSantis is the fighter mamas should support:
"As long as I have breath in my body, I will go out and I will fight for Ron DeSantis. Not because he's my husband, that is part of it, but it's because I believe in him in every ounce of my being. If you want somebody to go up to Washington DC to clean house, to be able to put this country back on the trajectory where we are talking about our rights coming in from our Creator and our government being put in place to protect our rights that are ours- he is the man to do it."
On her battle with cancer:
"There was a time in my life where I didn't know if I was going to see my kids graduate from kindergarten, let alone high school. I was able to beat that back and I had some really difficult, long battles. As a matter of fact, the Governor was getting criticized for doing this with me, but I remember every single chemotherapy appointment that I went to, and there were six of them, and they were long and very hard...and he held my hand during every single one of them and he never left my side. And I'll tell you what, when you go through something like that, and you're in the middle of the night scared, and you don't know what's going to happen and you crawl into bed with your kids, and you're getting hope for tomorrow that you can have some more time with them. And then you realize that God has given you more opportunity to be able to live. When you're given that opportunity in life, what do you do with it? Do I care what a headline says? No, I care about protecting the innocence of my children and your children's."
On the importance of school choice and parental involvement:
"You should not be destined to the zip code that you live in for your opportunities to live up to your God-given potential. It should be up to the parents to decide what education they think is best for their children. And government should get out of the way. But what I've found is there's a nice competitive model. If you have charter schools, and you have homeschooling, and you have private schools and you have public schools, and there's a competition for students, you find everybody does well, because they're all wanting to compete. And at the end of the day, we're looking for the return on the investments of the students, we want them to be able to be happy, which is first and foremost, and productive in society."
On protecting the innocence of children:
"The Governor passed something in Florida called curriculum transparency. Basically what that was, that enabled parents to be able to go to the schools to say, 'I want to see what curriculum you're teaching out kids.' And if they didn't give that information to the parent in a timely matter, then they had the right of action to be able to sue and it was also tied to the principal's teaching certificate. And what that led to was the discovery of pornography in a lot of these schools in their libraries and a lot of parents were really frustrated. I talked to other parents across the state whose children were being transitioned behind their back without their consent or their knowledge...and this isn't ok. In this time in society, it's not ok to take the rights of parents away from them."
Earlier on Thursday, Florida Senate President Kathleen Passidomo and Virginia County mom Marienne Jenson joined the American Agenda to share why they proudly support 'Mamas for DeSantis.'
Watch the full interview HERE.
"Just look how good she is at getting her message across, how important it is for our citizens of our country to take back our conservative values, to raise our children the way we want to raise them," said Florida Senate President Kathleen Passidomo. "She is the right person to do it. Because she has three young children, she cares deeply about our educational values. And I think she's going to come out in Iowa and she's going to promote those values. And she's going to do a bang up job. I am so proud to work with her in Florida. And I think she's going to do a great job around the country."
"Moms will take back this country. Moms will get this country back on track. I'm excited to be a part of this," said Marienne Jenson. "I saw what Governor DeSantis did down in Florida while I was here in Virginia, with our previous governor locking down our children from school and making our children wear masks. I saw what he was doing down there [in Florida] and I am so ready to throw my support behind him. But I know that Casey is the lead in this and mammas will support her and support Governor DeSantis."
The launch instantly garnered national attention across America. Read more below.

Quad-City Times: Casey DeSantis pushes for 'parental rights' at Mamas for DeSantis launch in Iowa
ABC News: Casey DeSantis makes her solo campaign debut in Iowa
CBS: Casey DeSantis pitches voters on husband Ron DeSantis as 'parent candidate'
Daily Mail: Casey DeSantis shines in first solo campaign appearance, touting Ron's war against woke during Iowa stop and warning the claws
Townhall: Casey DeSantis Joins Her Husband In the Fight to Protect the US From the Left's Radical Agenda
New York Times: A DeSantis Hits the Campaign Trail in Iowa, but It's Not Ron
NewsNation: Ron DeSantis deploys wife Casey on campaign trail
Florida Politics: Casey DeSantis rolls out 'Mamas for DeSantis' hype video
Radio Iowa: Gov. Reynolds and Casey DeSantis tout ESAs for private schooling
Des Moines Register: 'That's when the claws come out': Casey DeSantis solos in Iowa to launch 'Mamas for DeSantis'

  