
    Leishman highlights Booker's strong record on criminal justice reform as key reason for endorsement
Manchester, NH — After seeing Sen. Cory Booker campaign in New Hampshire this weekend, New Hampshire state Representative Peter Leishman (Peterborough) announced that he has endorsed Booker in the Democratic presidential primary. Leishman joins six fellow state representatives who announced their own endorsements last week.
"Cory Booker is a proven leader who knows the opioid epidemic and mental health crisis won't be solved by sending millions of people to prison and throwing away the key — but instead by reforming our criminal justice system so that we treat every American with dignity," said Rep. Peter Leishman. "I know this from personal experience--my son, Jordan, suffered from addiction for 12 years, he got caught up in the system, and then we lost him. What we're doing now is not working.
"I'm proud to support Cory for president because he thinks of people like my son when he gets up every morning to find solutions to the toughest challenges facing our country. Cory led to passage major, bipartisan legislation that is fixing our criminal justice system, even with Donald Trump in the White House. Just think about what he will do when he's in the Oval Office. I know Cory will fight for all Americans, including those battling addiction here in New Hampshire, and is the right person to take on Trump and reunite our country so we can finally make much-needed progress on critical issues facing our state and our country."
Leishman joins the following New Hampshire leaders in endorsing Booker for president:

Sen. Jon Morgan (Brentwood)
Sen. David Watters (Dover)
Rep. Anita Burroughs (Bartlett)
Rep. Linn Opderbecke (Dover)
Rep. Lee Walker Oxenham (Plainfield)
Rep. Katherine Rogers (Concord)
Rep. Jeffrey Salloway (Lee)
Rep. Bruce Tatro (Swanzey)

 Booker spent last weekend touring New Hampshire in an RV, making stops in Manchester, Nashua, Exeter, Pelham and Portsmouth. Booker met his 5,000th New Hampshire voter, held his 40th campaign stop in the state and became the first 2020 candidate to knock on doors when he campaigned for Manchester Mayor Joyce Craig.
  