
    Pool Reports by Brian Bennett, Time Magazine 



Sent:
Reports:




July 4, 2023 09:19

In town pool report #1 - checking in
Happy Independence Day from a hot, humid and sunny Washington, D.C. I'll be the print pooler for the day.
President Biden is scheduled to leave Camp David this morning and arrive at Fort McNair at 9:50 am. He will then travel to the White House.
The pool is in vans at Fort McNair waiting for President Biden's arrival.
Biden is speaking at an education event at the White House later today and then hosting a barbeque for military families. He will also give Independence Day remarks in the evening and watch the fireworks.
Here is the schedule released by the White House last night:
9:15 AM THE PRESIDENT and THE FIRST LADY depart Camp David en route to Fort Lesley J. McNair Camp David
9:50 AM THE PRESIDENT and THE FIRST LADY arrive at Fort Lesley J. McNair Fort Lesley J. McNair  In-Town Travel Pool
10:10 AM THE PRESIDENT and THE FIRST LADY arrive at the White House  North Grounds  In-Town Travel Pool
12:15 PM THE PRESIDENT and THE FIRST LADY participate in an event with the National Education Association  South Court Auditorium  Pre-Credentialed Media and Pooled for TV (Gather 12:00 PM – Stakeout Location) [RSVP here by 7:00 AM]
5:00 PM THE PRESIDENT and THE FIRST LADY host a barbeque with active-duty military families  South Grounds  Open Press (Pre-Set 3:00 PM, Gather 4:45 PM – Palm Room Doors) [RSVP here by 10:00 AM]
8:00 PM THE PRESIDENT and THE FIRST LADY host a Fourth of July celebration for military and veteran families, caregivers, and survivors, and deliver remarks to celebrate Independence Day   South Lawn  Open Press (Pre-Set 3:00 PM, Gather 7:40 PM – Palm Room Doors) [RSVP here by 10:00 AM]
9:09 PM THE PRESIDENT and THE FIRST LADY view the Independence Day fireworks display over the National Mall The White House 


July 4, 2023 09:52

In town pool report #2 - Biden departed Camp David
President Biden is expected to land at Fort McNair at around 10 am.
From White House: The President and the First Lady departed Camp David at 9:28am. 


July 4, 2023 10:31

In town pool report #3 - Biden arrival at McNair and White House, no quotes
Marine One touched down at 10:01 am on the lawn at Fort McNair.
President Biden walked down the steps of the helicopter, turned and offered his hand to First Lady Jill Biden as she walked down the steps.
Biden and the First Lady walked to Biden's motorcade. Biden did not stop to talk to the pool.
Some of President Biden's family were also on Marine One.
Finnegan Biden walked off the helicopter holding the hand of Hunter Biden's son Beau Jr.
Melissa Biden and Hunter Biden stepped off Marine One and held hands as they walked across the lawn. Beau Jr. then took Hunter's hand.
When Hunter and Melissa approached one of the black SUVs with Beau Jr., young Beau seemed reluctant to get in. Hunter Biden then picked him up and the three got into the vehicle.
Biden's motorcade arrived back at the White House at 10:16 am. Your pooler did not see President Biden get out if the limo.
From the White House:
Traveling with the President and the First Lady via motorcade en route to the White House:
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff Anthony Bernal, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the First Lady 


July 4, 2023 12:32

In town pool report #4 - two minute warning, Biden speaks virtually to NEA converence
Two minute warning
Remarks will be streamed at https://www.whitehouse.gov/live/
From the White House:
The President and the First Lady are delivering remarks to the National Education Association Annual Representative Assembly.
Speaking Program:
Becky Pringle, President of the National Education Association (Virtual) The First Lady The President 


July 4, 2023 13:10

In town pool report #5 - Biden gave remarks to NEA
Remarks are streamed here:
https://m.youtube.com/watch?v=qMocNgl7j4A
First Lady Jill Biden entered the South Court Auditorium at 12:44 pm. She spoke over video conference with Becky Pringle, President of the National Education Association, during NEA's annual conference in Orlando, FL. After giving remarks, First Lady Jill Biden introduced President Joe Biden as "my husband, the education president Joe Biden."
Biden walked onto the stage at around 12:50 pm
He spoke about teacher pay and unions and student loan forgiveness for public service jobs.
On gun violence: "Arming teachers is not the answer."
He raised his voice when he described efforts to ban books from school libraries. Biden: "Come on, that's not who we are." Biden finished speaking at 12:59 pm.
Then the President and First Lady walked off the stage.
Reporters shouted questions about gun violence and imprisoned Wall Street Journal reporter Evan Gershkovich. Biden did not stop to answer. 


July 4, 2023 17:31

In town pool report #6 - Biden remarks at barbecue
At 5:03 pm, President Biden and First Lady Jill Biden walked out of the South Portico to give remarks at a barbecue for military families. A chaplain gave a prayer. First Lady Jill Biden gave remarks and then she introduced President Biden.
Remarks are at:
https://www.whitehouse.gov/live/
And
https://youtube.com/watch?v=m4vjZ2ZEutM
Biden told the members of the military:
"You are the sinew, the backbone, the reality of why we are who we are, unbreaking, unbending. Throughout our history remind us that democracy is never, never, never guaranteed. Every generation must fight to maintain it."
I hope we all rededicate ourselves to the central work of our democracy which is to unify, unify, unify this nation. To see each other not as adversaries but as fellow Americans."
He mentioned that this year marks the 50th anniversary of the all volunteer force, the 75th anniversary of the order to desegrate the military, and the 75th year of integrating women into the armed forces.
"We are the United States of America and there is nothing, nothing beyond our capacity if we work together."
Biden finished speaking at 5:10 pm. He stepped aside and spoke to Secretary Austin and Charlene Austin. Then Biden walked to greet people on the crowd before turning and walking back inside the South Portico.
From the White House:
Attending the President and the First Lady's remarks at a barbecue for active-duty and National Guard military families on the South Lawn:
Secretary Lloyd Austin, Department of Defense Charlene Austin, Spouse of Secretary Austin Colonel John Barkemeyer, Senior White House Military Office, Chaplain, U.S. Army Servicemembers, active-duty and National Guard military families, Cabinet members, senior White House staff, & invited guests
Speaking Program
The First Lady The President 


July 4, 2023 20:30

In town pool report #7 - Biden brief remarks on stage at South Lawn fireworks viewing
Thousands of people sat on blankets, stepped around blankets and stood betweek blankets in the South Lawn. Drinks, popcorn and beer were served. A large stage was set up for musical acts.
Around 8 pm, First Lady Jill Biden came on stage. President Biden followed her, several steps behind. "Come on, Joe," Jill said. Jill spoke for a few minutes.
"Now, before we get to our final performer, I'd like to introduce our Commander in Chief, President Joe Biden."
Biden began speaking.
Biden: "Welcome to your house, the White House. We're just rentin'."
"It's amazing what what a difference music makes. No, no, I really mean it. Think about how music can change moods. Music can make us feel better."
"It really matters, your showing your support for the military on a day like today."
"Today's America's day."
Then Jill Biden introduced the next musical act.
President Biden walked down the steps and shook hands with people in the crowd before going into the White House.
Fireworks start at 9:09 pm. 


July 4, 2023 20:32

In town pool report #8 - musical acts at White House Fourth of July celebration
From the White House:
In attendance for the President and the First Lady's Fourth of July celebration & remarks to celebrate Independence Day:
Military and veteran families, caregivers and survivors, National Park Service staff and families, Cabinet members and families, members of the Biden-Harris Administration, and senior White House staff and families.
Attendees will enjoy music performances from The United States Military's Premier Bands; singer-songwriter and Veteran Army spouse Becca Rae Greene; acclaimed artist and producer DJ D-Nice; Grammy award-winning country musicians Brothers Osborne; and three-time Grammy award-winning musician NE-YO. Musical ensembles from the U.S. Military's Premier Bands include "The President's Own" United States Marine Band, The United States Army Band, The United States Army Old Guard Fife and Drum Corps, The United States Navy Band, and The United States Air Force Band.
Run of Show Becca Rae Greene - The National Anthem DJ D-Nice Brothers Osborn The First Lady The President NE-YO


July 4, 2023 21:23

In town pool report #9 - fireworks, no quotes
President Biden walked out on the balcony of the South Portico as the fireworks began at 9:09 pm. First Lady Jill Biden stood next to him. Members of the Biden family were with him on balcony as music by the B-52s, The Beach Boys "Surfin' USA", Miley Cyrus and other artists boomed on the sound system and fireworks lit up the sky. (It was hard to identify the Biden family members from your pooler's spot on the lawn.) 


July 4, 2023 21:44

In town pool report #10 - lid
After watching the fireworks, President Joe Biden embraced First Lady Jill Biden and both waved to the crowd. They walked inside around 9:27 pm.
We have a lid.
Happy Fourth of July! 


July 4, 2023 22:52

In town pool report #11 - guest count
From the White House:
The White House hosted approximately 7,500 guests for the Fourth of July celebration on the South Lawn. 



  