
    President George W. Bush today announced his nomination of one individual, his intention to nominate four individuals and his intention to appoint six individuals to serve in his administration.
The President has nominated Peter Eide to be General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority for a five-year term. Eide is currently the Director of Labor Law Policy at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, where he has worked since 1990. Before joining the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, Eide practiced labor and employment law with Akin, Gump, Strauss, Hauer and Feld in Washington, D.C. and Piper and Marbury in Baltimore, Maryland. From 1983 to 1987, he was with Martin Marietta Aerospace, first as an Employee Relations Administrator and then as the Manager of Salaried and Professional Relations. From 1975 to 1983, Eide was a Field Examiner with the National Labor Relations Board. Eide is a graduate of Florida State University and the University of Maryland Law School.
The President intends to nominate Harry R. Hoglander to be a Member of the National Mediation Board for a three-year term expiring July 1, 2005. Hoglander is currently a Legislative Specialist in the Office of Congressman John Tierney specializing in labor and transportation issues. He was a pilot with Trans World Airlines from 1965 to 1993 and Master Chairman of the TWA Master Executive Council from 1982 to 1986. Hoglander served as Executive Vice President of the Air Line Pilots Association from 1976 to 1978, and from 1988 to 1994, he was a Labor Representative on the United States Aviation Bi-Lateral Delegation. A former member of the U.S. Air Force and Massachusetts Air National Guard, he is a graduate of Florida State University and Suffolk University Law School.
The President intends to nominate Daniel Pearson to be a Commissioner of the United States International Trade Commission for a nine-year term expiring June 16, 2011. Pearson is Assistant Vice President for Public Affairs of Cargill, Incorporated in Minneapolis, Minnesota. He has been a policy analyst in Cargill's public affairs department since 1987, and he has focused primarily on trade policy issues. From 1981 to 1987, Pearson was the agriculture legislative assistant to U.S. Senator Rudy Boschwitz. In 1979 and 1980, he farmed in a diversified 800-acre operation with his father and brother in Ogilvie, Minnesota. Pearson earned a bachelor's degree and Master's degree in agriculture economics from the University of Minnesota.
The President intends to nominate Neil McPhie to be a Member of the Merit Systems Protection Board for the remainder of a seven-year term expiring March 1, 2009. McPhie is currently a Senior Assistant Attorney General in the Virginia Attorney General's Office. From 1998 to April of 2002, McPhie was the Executive Director of the Virginia Department of Employment Dispute Resolution. From 1982 to 1998, he served with the Virginia Attorney General's Office first as an Assistant Attorney General and then as the Senior Assistant Attorney General and Chief of the Employment Law Section. From 1976 to 1982, McPhie was a trial and appellate attorney with the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission. He is a graduate of Howard University and Georgetown University Law Center.
The President intends to nominate Quanah Crossland Stamps to be Commissioner of the Administration for Native Americans. Stamps is presently the President of QCS International, which works to create business and employment opportunities in urban communities and provides strategic advice and technical assistant to Native American tribes. From 1994 to 1998, she was an Assistant Administrator of the U.S Small Business Administration where she was responsible for overseeing all national Native American small business and economic development programs. From 1991 to 1994, she served in a variety of positions at the Bureau of Indian Affairs. Stamps earned a bachelor's and Master's degree from George Mason University.
The President intends to appoint Windy Sitton to be United States Commissioner of the Canadian River Commission. Sitton was first elected Mayor of Lubbock, Texas in 1997, and was then reelected for two additional terms. In 1994, Sitton was elected Councilwoman for Lubbock's 3rd District. While serving as Mayor, she was appointed to the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board and served on the Texas Attorney General's municipal affairs committee. Sitton earned an undergraduate degree from the University of North Texas and a Master's degree from Texas Women's University.
The President intends to appoint the following five individuals to serve as Members of the Federal Salary Council:
Employee Representatives:
Thomas Bastas is currently the National President and CEO of the Association of Civilian Technicians in Lake Ridge, Virginia. James Pasco is the Executive Director of the Fraternal Order of Police in Washington, D.C.
Labor Relations and Pay Policy Representatives:
Rudy Joseph Maestas is the Acting Director of the Labor and Industrial Division of the New Mexico Department of Labor. Mary McNally Rose is the Chair of the Federal Prevailing Rate Advisory Commission in Washington, D.C. Samuel Johnson Wallace is the Owner of Williams and Wallace Management Consultants in Oakland, California. From 1989 to 1993, he was the Department of Labor's regional director for California, Nevada, Arizona, Utah and Hawaii.
  