
    The Rudy Giuliani Presidential Committee today announced endorsements from Northeast Florida led by Regional Chair Richard Clark, Jacksonville City Councilman. Also joining the team are the campaign's Duval County Chair Toni Ann Van Orman, the campaign's St. Johns County Chair Elvira Fernandez Hasty, and Glorious Johnson, Jacksonville City Councilwoman.
This diverse group of local Republican Party officials will focus on building Mayor Giuliani's campaign in Northeast Florida and will help continue the campaign's success in the state.
"Rudy is a strong leader and is definitely the candidate with the vision for the future that Floridians are looking for. I'm honored to help him become the next President of the United States," said Councilman Clark.
Giuliani's Florida Senior Advisor Karen Unger said these additions are evidence of the Mayor's strong support in Florida. "Florida will be an important player in the upcoming elections, and we are putting together the team it will take to make sure every Floridian knows Mayor Giuliani's record and vision for the country," said Unger.
About the Northeast Florida Leadership:
Jacksonville City Councilman Richard Clark, Northeast Florida Regional Chair
Clark was elected to the Jacksonville City Council in 2005. He is currently the President of Supreme Janitorial, a family owned janitorial service founded in 1973. Clark has served in several professional leadership roles during his tenure with Supreme Janitorial, including as the Board President of the International Facility Management Association. He is involved with the National Federation of Independent Businesses.
Elvira Fernandez Hasty, St. Johns County Chair
Hasty has served in a variety of leadership roles within the Republican Party in Florida including as a State Committeewoman for the Republican Party of St. Johns County, as an Alternate Delegate to the 2004 Republican National Convention, a precinct coordinator for the 2004 Bush-Cheney Campaign, and as the St. Johns County Coordinator for Senator Mel Martinez's successful 2004 campaign.
Toni Ann Van Orman, Duval County Chair
A veteran of several local campaigns, Van Orman has worked as the campaign coordinator for four Jacksonville City Council campaigns and was the Beaches Headquarters Coordinator for the 2004 Bush-Cheney Campaign. Until joining the Giuliani campaign, Van Orman was President of the Republican Club of the Beaches since 1998.
Jacksonville City Councilwoman Glorious Johnson
Johnson is a longtime resident of Jacksonville and is an active community leader. A teacher for many years in the Duval County School system, Johnson received the Honorary Life Membership Award from the Florida Parent Teacher Association. Johnson previously worked as the Master Admissions Representative at Florida Metropolitan University, Jacksonville Campus. She is a motivational speaker and an active member of the Potter's House Christian Fellowship Church.
  