
    "In the first six months of this administration, President Donald Trump has fought every day to deliver on his promises to the American people. At a historic pace, this president has taken bold action to restore prosperity, keep Americans safe and secure, and hold government accountable."
Trump's triumphs are many after only six months and he's just getting started
By Mike Pence
Fox News
July 23, 2017
In the first six months of this administration, President Donald Trump has fought every day to deliver on his promises to the American people. At a historic pace, this president has taken bold action to restore prosperity, keep Americans safe and secure, and hold government accountable.
President Trump has signed more than 40 bills and nearly 40 executive orders on everything from health care to energy, infrastructure and more.
While the previous administration turned to federal agencies to enact its agenda, President Trump has signed more laws to slash through federal red tape than any president in American history and has saved businesses up to $18 billion a year in costs.
And whereas the last administration stifled the use of America's vast energy resources, President Trump has put a renewed emphasis on American energy – approving the Keystone XL and Dakota Access pipelines, rolling back the Clean Power Plan, and putting America First by withdrawing from the Paris climate accord.
President Trump inherited an economy that would barely budge – but under his watch, American businesses small and large have already created more than 800,000 new jobs since January. Company after company is responding to the president's agenda with optimism – investing billions of dollars in American jobs, American workers and America's future.
As the father of a United States Marine, I couldn't be more proud to serve alongside a president who cares so deeply about the men and women of the armed forces of the United States of America.
...
It is the greatest privilege of my life to serve as vice president to a president who is fighting every single day to restore an America of freedom, prosperity and opportunity for all.
So with boundless faith in the American people, with faith in President Trump's vision and determination, and with faith in God who has ever watched over this Land of the Free and Home of the Brave, I say with confidence: We will make America safe again. We will make America prosperous again. And to borrow a phrase, we will Make America Great Again.
Read the full op-ed here.
  