
    Clinton Holds a Significant Lead Among Black Democratic Primary Voters
A South Carolina poll shows that African Americans prefer Senator Hillary Clinton to other Democratic presidential candidates in the state, reaffirming the strong support that Senator Clinton enjoys from black voters in South Carolina, and across the country.
The new CNN South Carolina poll gave Senator Clinton a 16-point lead over her closest rival, and an overall 14-point lead among all South Carolina Democratic primary voters. The poll, released this week, was conducted in advance of the upcoming CNN/YouTube debate being held Monday, July 23, 2007 in Charleston.
Specifically the new poll shows:

Among whites, Senator Clinton has a 3-point lead over Edwards (30% to 27%) with Obama at 18%
Among blacks, Senator Clinton holds a 16-point lead over Obama (47% to 31%) with Edwards at 4%

"The poll shows that many African Americans in South Carolina are hearing our messages," South Carolina Senator Robert Ford said. "Hillary Clinton has been campaigning across the country, letting all Americans know that she believes in providing opportunities so that everyone in this great country can rise to their highest possible level of achievement."
Senator Clinton has a long history of working to protect the civil rights and expand opportunities for African Americans. Her commitment to improving the lives of African Americans spans over 35 years -- from her start as a law student as a volunteer at the Legal Services Corporation providing free legal services to low income people to walking door-to-door with Marian Wright Edelman working with the Children's Defense Fund.
"As President, she will appoint federal judges that will uphold the equal access laws in our country and ensure that every American has fair access to jobs, education, housing, and quality health care," Aiken City Councilperson and South Carolina Co-Chair of the Clinton campaign Lessie Price said. "Her administration will make discrimination a thing of the past, and open new doors to opportunity. It's time that America stop sliding backward, and move forward towards a society where not a single man, woman or child is held back or discriminated against because of their race, color or religion."
"Our nation has the will to do better," Price, also a former president of the Municipal Association of South Carolina said. "The people of our state are supporting Hillary Clinton because together, with Americans across the country, we will once again make this country a land of opportunity for all, and not a chosen few."
  