
    President Trejos, my fellow Presidents, ladies and gentlemen:
President Trejos, Mrs. Johnson and I are very pleased to be able to return your visit to our country and to pay our respects to the citizens of Costa Rica.
A long and splendid tradition enriches Costa Rica--a tradition of democracy, created at the ballot box; of social justice, preserved and extended through democratic government; and of order and peace between citizens.
Like President Trejos, I am a former schoolteacher. Both experiences--as teacher and as a public servant--have convinced me that the best hope of progress for any people lies in the widespread opportunity of good education.
Costa Rica has set an example for all of Latin America in providing that opportunity. This is a nation in which the schoolhouse is the center of national life where there are more teachers than policemen, and where scholars are often statesmen. I understand that Costa Rica has invested 43 percent of each tax dollar in education. I know that is an investment which will continue to pay the greatest dividends to this nation and pay dividends to this entire region.
You have also set an example with the number of women holding high office in your Government. I am trying to do the same in the United States. We need womanpower in the pursuit of our national goals.
At their meeting in San Salvador during the last few days, the leaders of Central America committed themselves to new efforts to insure greater regional cooperation. They pledged increased educational, social, and economic progress within their own countries.
I am confident that Costa Pica, with its long tradition of responsible government and educational opportunity, will be a leader in translating the commitments of San Salvador into actual accomplishments. And you may be very sure that the people of the United States will continue to meet their pledges of friendship and support for your efforts.
Thank each of you for coming out here to greet us today, to greet the President of Guatemala and his First Lady; the President of Honduras and his First Lady; and to say a greeting to Mrs. Johnson, my daughter, and myself.
Hasta la vista--adios.
  