
    President and Mrs. Sanchez, Presidents of Central America and their ladies, ladies and gentlemen:
Mrs. Johnson and I will be leaving shortly. I need to work on the nonproliferation message to the Senate that will have to be there on Tuesday morning prior to Secretary Rusk's appearance. I will be joining you later. We will see you at the reception at 7 o'clock this evening.
We have had a very delightful day with our hosts from Central America. Mrs. Johnson and I want to tell you how grateful we are for your graciousness and your many courtesies, beginning at the cathedral this morning; the visit to the marketplace; to the many people who lined the highways; to the schools that we went to; and now, to conclude it with this delicious steak and sausage, in these beautiful surroundings.
It is exceeded only by the beauty of the friendship that exists between the nations of this hemisphere.
I want to say to President Sanchez that when I received the invitation to come to Central America, little did I realize we would have such an enjoyable visit in such beautiful surroundings, nor did I think that the results would be so productive. I hope that sometime when there is more time I can come and get to know all the people of these wonderful countries better.
Mrs. Johnson wants to say a word before we leave. And then I understand President Sanchez will say a word to our press. Mrs. Johnson.
MRS. JOHNSON. President and Mrs. Sanchez, Your Excellencies, friends:
May I just say a word from a purely feminine viewpoint?
It is very easy for us to fly in here and enjoy all these delightful entertainments and these wonderful trips that you have planned.
But I know something of the planning, the details, and the hard work that have gone into making them all happen.
I want to say thank you very much, to all of you.
My trip yesterday through your wonderfully picturesque countryside, seeing a coffee plantation for the first time, and visiting your agriculture school, whose work is so hopeful, will be a page in my album of memories that I shall cherish.
This delightful barbecue today, in this enchanting spot--I have never seen anything quite like it before. This is really a great stroke to bring us here.
So may I say thank you to everyone for showing us so much of your country in such a short time, and giving us the pleasure of getting to know the other Presidents of Central America and their wives.
THE PRESIDENT. There are just two things I want to say:
First, we hope, we pray, and we believe that what we have done this weekend will help some to better the lives of the people of this area.
Second, as President of the United States, I would like to say to the people of Central America that we thank you for the services of the outstanding dean of the diplomatic corps, Ambassador Sevilla-Sacasa.
He has been truly the dean of the diplomatic corps for all of the free world. For every visitor who has come to our country, he has been there to greet him, to extend his graciousness, and to see him depart. We are so grateful for the contribution he has made. Thank you and goodby.
  