
    President Donald J. Trump today announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key positions in his Administration:
William Bryan of Virginia, to be the Under Secretary for Science and Technology at the Department of Homeland Security.
Mr. Bryan currently serves as Senior Official Performing the Duties of the Under Secretary for Science and Technology at the Department of Homeland Security (DHS). As the science and technology advisor to the DHS Secretary, he leads the research, development, innovation, and testing activities in support of DHS operational components and first responders across the Nation. Previously, he was the President of ValueBridge International's Energy Group and held leadership roles in the Departments of Energy Defense. Mr. Bryan is a United States Army veteran. He graduated summa cum laude from Colorado Technical University and earned his M.S. from the Joint Military Intelligence College.
Martin J. Oberman of Illinois, to be a Member of the Surface Transportation Board for the remainder of a five year term expiring December 31, 2023.
Mr. Oberman currently practices law in Chicago, IL, where he also serves on the Board of the Chicago Metropolitan Agency for Planning (CMAP). Previously, he served as Chairman of the Board of Directors of Metra, a member of the Chicago City Council, and as General Counsel to the Illinois Racing Board. Mr. Oberman graduated from Yale University and earned his J.D. with honors from the University of Wisconsin Law School.
Philip S. Kosnett of Virginia, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Kosovo.
Mr. Kosnett currently is the Chargé d'Affaires ad interim at the United States Embassy in Ankara, Turkey. Over the course of his Foreign Service career, he served at eight United States Missions in Europe, Asia, and the Middle East and in senior leadership positions at the Department of State. Mr. Kosnett earned an A.B. at Harvard University. He is the recipient of 10 Department of State awards, the Office of the Secretary of Defense Medal for Exceptional Civilian Service, and the Department of the Army Medal for Outstanding Civilian Service. Mr. Kosnett speaks Turkish, Russian, Dutch, and Japanese.
  