
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to reappoint one individual, nominate two individuals, and the designation of one individual to serve in his administration:
The President intends to reappoint William K. Sessions III, of Vermont, as a Vice Chair of the United States Sentencing Commission for a term of six years. Sessions currently serves as a United States District Judge for the District of Vermont and as a Vice Chair of the United States Sentencing Commission. Previously, Sessions was a partner at the Vermont law firm of Sessions Keiner Dumont & Barnes and a Public Defender in Addison County, Vermont. Sessions received his undergraduate degree from Middlebury College and his law degree from George Washington University Law School.
The President intends to nominate George W. Miller, of Virginia, to be a Judge of the United States Court of Federal Claims. Miller currently is a partner at the law firm of Hogan & Hartson. Previously, Miller served on active duty as a Lieutenant in the United States Navy Judge Advocate General's Corps, working in the Office of the General Counsel at the United States Department of Defense. He received an A.B. degree from Princeton in 1963, a J.D. degree from Harvard Law School in 1966, and an LL.M. degree in Taxation from George Washington University Law School in 1968.
The President intends to nominate Pamela P. Willeford, of Texas, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Switzerland and to serve concurrently and without additional compensation as Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Principality of Liechtenstein. Currently, Ms. Willeford serves as Chair of the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board, and Partner and President of Pico Drilling Co., Ltd. She previously served as Director of Development and Texas Capitol Rededication Coordinator for the State Preservation Board and as a board member for the Texas State History Museum. Ms. Willeford earned her bachelor's degree from The University of Texas at Austin.
The President has designated William H. Campbell, of Maryland, to be Acting Assistant Secretary of Veterans Affairs (Human Resources and Administration).
  