
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
July 15 *
The White House announced the Clinton administration approved an additional $17 million for flood recovery for Georgia, Alabama, and Florida.
July 17
In the evening, the President traveled to Miami, FL.
July 18
In the morning, the President attended the first meeting of the executive committee of the Summit of the Americas at the Sheraton Bal Harbour Hotel. He then went to the Miami Beach Convention Center where he attended an afternoon reception with officers of the National Council of La Raza. He traveled to Brunswick, ME, later in the afternoon.
In the evening, the President attended the Maine Democratic Party Coordinated Campaign reception at the Sonesta Hotel. Following the Maine Democratic Party Coordinated Campaign dinner at the Holiday Inn by the Bay, he traveled to Boston, MA.
July 19
In the morning, the President met with Jim and Mary Bryant and their two children, a family from Beverly, MA, who are unable to obtain health insurance under the present system. He returned to Washington, DC, in the afternoon.
In the evening, the President attended a fundraiser for Colorado Gov. Roy Romer at the Sheraton Carlton Hotel.
July 20
The President announced his intention to nominate James W. Swilhart, Jr., to be Ambassador to Lithuania.
July 21
The President announced he has named Senator David Pryor of Arkansas to be Chairman of the Policy Committee for the White House Conference on Aging and the following individuals to be members:
—Secretary of Housing and Urban Development Henry G. Cisneros;
—Secretary of Veterans Affairs Jesse Brown;
—Secretary of Health and Human Services Donna Shalala;
—Norman Abramowitz;
—Horace Deets;
—James T. Delacruz;
—Rose Dobrof;
—Mary Rose Oakar;
—Herb Sanderson;
—Lawrence Smedley;
—Marta Sotomayor;
—Daniel Thursz.
The President announced that Glenn H. Hutchins will be the Chairman of the Western New Independent States Enterprise Fund.
July 22
The President announced his intention to appoint Peter Berle, Dan Morales, Jean Richardson, John Wirth, and Jonathan Plaut to be members of the Joint Public Advisory Committee of the North American Commission for Environmental Cooperation.
The President announced his intention to nominate Dr. Paul Hill to be the Chairperson and Chief Executive Officer of the Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board and his intention to nominate Dr. Devra Lee Davis, Dr. Gerald V. Poje, Dr. Andrea Kidd Taylor to be members of the Board.
  