
    Mr. President:
I am greatly honored to have the opportunity of welcoming you on your visit to the United States as a part of your world tour.
You visited the United States last, as I understand it, in 1970, and we all recognize, of course, that through the years, you have been a very wise and valued friend of the United States.
I recognize, as all of us do here from the United States, that you have achieved a great deal for your country in the period during your Presidency. The Indonesian people, we recognize, have developed a solid foundation to deal with your nation's very complex challenges and the very difficult road, but in the process of development, great progress has been made.
Admiring you, President Suharto, and your country, as I do, I have wanted to meet with you and discuss with you the many issues that concern both of our nations. And I have found today, in our discussions, that your observations concerning Southeast Asia and the Pacific have been extremely meaningful and very constructive. I hope that this exchange of views will be mutually beneficial to both countries as we face our problems in the years ahead.
We do attach, in the United States, a great deal of importance to our relations with you. You have been a source of strength in Southeast Asia and in Asia as a whole, and we respect you for this part that you have played in the area, as well as the leadership that you have given to your own country in the process of development in the last 5 to 10 years.
We look forward to the opportunity of working with you in the future. The fact that we had a recent tragedy in Indochina actually should redouble, and does, our interest in the stability of Southeast Asia. 'Your assessment there, as I indicated, is most helpful to us as we plan and look to the future.
Let me say that the American people have great respect for your people, as we do for you and those in your Government. I was delighted this morning to reaffirm our Nation's solid support for Indonesia's development efforts, and we look forward to working with you in economic matters and the strengthening of your country in its major role in Southeast Asia.
Mr. President, in the months and years ahead, it seems to me that your country can provide continuing leadership in that part of the world, working with other nations that have a like philosophical, ideological view. Let me assure you that we will be most anxious to work with you and those other nations.
Today has been most enjoyable, most pleasant, and, I think, most constructive. I hope that you will return to the United States very soon and for a much longer and more extended visit to the United States.
It is a pleasure for me to ask all of you to raise your glasses to the good health and sustained success of the leader of Indonesia--His Excellency, President Suharto.
  