
    Today, President Donald J. Trump announced his intent to nominate the following individual to a key position in his Administration:
Robert S. Gilchrist, of Florida, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary to the Republic of Lithuania.
Robert S. Gilchrist is a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, and currently serves as the Director of the Operations Center of the Department of State. Previously, Mr. Gilchrist was Deputy Chief of Mission of the United States Embassy in Sweden, Deputy Chief of Mission of the United States Embassy in Estonia, and the Director of Nordic and Baltic Affairs in the State Department's Bureau of European and Eurasian Affairs. Among his earlier assignments, Mr. Gilchrist was Deputy Political Counselor at the United States Embassy in Iraq, Chief of the Political Section of the United States Embassy in Romania, and a Special Assistant in the Office of the Deputy Secretary of State. Mr. Gilchrist earned a B.A. from Wake Forest University, and an M.A. degree from the University of Virginia. He speaks Spanish, French, Estonian, and Romanian.—
Today, President Donald J. Trump announced his intent to appoint the following individual to a key position in his Administration:
Carrie Beth Cabelka, of Michigan, to be an Assistant Secretary of State (Administration).
Carrie Beth Cabelka currently serves as the White House Liaison to the Department of State. She previously served as White House Liaison and Senior Advisor to Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice from 2007 to 2009, and White House Liaison at the Office of Personnel Management from 2003 to 2007. Ms. Cabelka began her career working for Senator Spencer Abraham of Michigan, followed by roles in the White House Office of Presidential Personnel and the Department of Commerce's International Trade Administration. While in the private sector, Ms. Cabelka oversaw multimillion-dollar contracts for the Department of Defense, managing public awareness campaigns on health issues that impact service members, veterans and their families, including a special focus on the prevention, treatment, and recovery from traumatic brain injury. Ms. Cabelka earned a B.A. from Miami University (Ohio).
  