
    "The political cronies for the President are doing just fine—that part of the private sector is perfectly happy—but the middle class is still struggling and continues to do so—has for over 40 months of over 8 percent unemployment with no end in sight. So while those middle-class Americans continue to suffer, President Obama's political pals are definitely doing fine. And that's largely thanks to the billions of dollars from taxpayers that the President has steered back to his political donors—his bundlers." — Virginia Attorney General Ken Cuccinelli
Virginia Attorney General Ken Cuccinelli
"Political Payoffs" Press Conference Call
July 16, 2012
Click Here To Listen To The Entire Call
Highlights From The "Political Payoffs" Press Conference Call:
VA ATTY. GEN. KEN CUCCINELLI: "Obviously this is a subject that is sensitive for many Americans. That being that the President famously said not to long ago the private sector was 'doing fine.' Well, most people in the private sector don't think that, but there is a small select group of them that are getting their political payoffs from President Obama while the middle class gets its layoffs. The political cronies for the President are doing just fine—that part of the private sector is perfectly happy—but the middle class is still struggling and continues to do so—has for over 40 months of over 8 percent unemployment with no end in sight. So while those middle-class Americans continue to suffer, President Obama's political pals are definitely doing fine. And that's largely thanks to the billions of dollars from taxpayers that the President has steered back to his political donors—his bundlers. The President promised that his stimulus, to start off, less than a month after he was sworn in, would bring the economy back, you remember under 8 percent by June? And that his green energy program would create millions of new jobs and instead we've gotten names synonymous with bankruptcy and waste or worse like Solyndra being the most infamous of them all and as I said we haven't been below 8 percent unemployment in that stretch. So President Obama's political payoffs have cost us billions of dollars—have cost taxpayers billions of dollars—in grants and loan guarantees, but they have completely failed to create jobs or help middle class families."
  