
    Yesterday, Kentucky Governor Andy Beshear and Colorado Governor Jared Polis announced their support for the Bipartisan Infrastructure Framework unveiled by President Joe Biden last week. In an additional show of support for the framework, the Michigan Urban Core Mayors issued a statement affirming its endorsement and the Michigan Municipal League and Michigan Mayors Association penned a joint statement backing the framework and calling for its swift passage.
The Michigan Urban Core Mayors noted that the framework will not only improve roads, bridges, and replace lead pipes, but it will also fundamentally improve people's lives.
"Infrastructure is the lifeblood between the people we represent and the places they live. Strong, resilient infrastructure sustains local economies, improves quality of life, provides equitable access to jobs, and protects the environment," wrote Grand Rapids Mayor and Michigan Urban Core Mayors Chair Rosalynn Bliss on behalf of the Michigan Urban Core Mayors.
Similarly, Port Huron Mayor and Michigan Association of Mayors President Pauline Repp and Westland Mayor and Board President of the Michigan Municipal League William Wild, highlighted the importance of passing the bill to improve the quality of life for their residents. Additionally, the statement called for immediate action by Congress to pass the bill.
During his press conference, Kentucky Governor Andy Beshear highlighted the importance of bipartisanship in Washington – something he suggested was lacking and necessary for the strength and unity of the country.
"First, we need something bipartisan coming out of Washington, DC. It would be good for all of us," said Governor Beshear. "These are huge needs that polling shows everybody across America agrees with regardless of party."
And in a statement, Colorado Governor Jared Polis said, "This is the transformational change we've been waiting for… I appreciate President Biden's engagement, bipartisan partnership and steadfast support for Coloradans as we build back stronger than before. Thank you to the bipartisan group of Senators who are willing to step up and get real work done."
Read the statements below: 
Kentucky Governor Andy Beshear"We've talked a whole lot about some of the federal infrastructure through the American Rescue Plan Act. And let me today just briefly state my support for the bipartisan...infrastructure agreement that needs to now work its way through as legislation in Washington, DC. First, we need something bipartisan coming out of Washington, DC. It would be good for all of us. But the dollars that it puts into roads and bridges, and this morning we were unveiling electric buses through the Volkswagon settlement I did as the attorney general in Louisville, it puts money into electrification. These are huge needs that polling shows everybody across America agrees with regardless of party. We need that to move forward."
Colorado Governor Jared Polis"This is the transformational change we've been waiting for. We need to fix our roads and reduce traffic, and this bipartisan effort will get it done. President Biden's plan invests in our infrastructure, boosts workers and small businesses and will help people and products move around our country for generations to come," said Colorado Governor Jared Polis. "I appreciate President Biden's engagement, bipartisan partnership and steadfast support for Coloradans as we build back stronger than before. Thank you to the bipartisan group of Senators who are willing to step up and get real work done." 
Grand Rapids Mayor and Michigan Urban Core Mayors Chair Rosalynn Bliss 
The Michigan Urban Core Mayors Applaud the Bi-Partisan Agreement to Make a Historic Investment In our Nation's Infrastructure 
"Infrastructure is the lifeblood between the people we represent and the places they live. Strong, resilient infrastructure sustains local economies, improves quality of life, provides equitable access to jobs, and protects the environment. We support the bi-partisan framework to make a historic investment in our infrastructure that will allow us to improve our roads and bridges, remove lead service lines, provide robust public transit options, and expand access to broadband. We look forward to working with our congressional leaders to secure meaningful investment in our country's infrastructure." 
The Urban Core Mayors (UCM) represent the cities of Ann Arbor, Battle Creek, Bay City, Dearborn, Detroit, Flint, Grand Rapids, Jackson, Kalamazoo, Lansing, Muskegon, Pontiac, and Saginaw.
Port Huron Mayor and Michigan Association of Mayors President Pauline Repp and Westland Mayor and Board President of the Michigan Municipal League William Wild 
The Michigan Municipal League and The Michigan Association of Mayors Support the Bipartisan Effort to Solve the Nation's Infrastructure Needs 
"We applaud the bipartisan efforts to reach a deal on a framework for investing in our country's infrastructure. This investment would ensure access to safe roads, clean drinking water, and high-speed broadband across Michigan. It will drive economic activity, strengthen our communities, and improve quality of life for our residents. We ask that Congress act quickly to implement this framework and we are ready and willing to add our voice to the process."
  