
    President Trump replaced NAFTA with a better trade deal that delivers wins for America's beef and dairy farmers.
On Cow Appreciation Day, we celebrate the millions of hardworking cattle farmers across America who are poised to benefit from the new United States-Mexico-Canada (USMCA) trade deal negotiated by President Trump.
American farmers, who tend to almost 95 million head of cattle, spent decades at a disadvantage due to the disastrous NAFTA deal Joe Biden supported. Now, the newly-ratified USMCA is leveling the playing field—and that's good news for cattle farmers and producers across the United States.
The "landmark" USMCA will boost U.S. agricultural exports by $2.2 billion, giving beef cattle farmers duty-free access to Mexico and Canada, expanding dairy farmers' access to Canada's markets more than anticipated, and allowing dairy producers to export three times as much product to Canada. Additionally, the new USMCA deal eliminates Canada's unfair 'Class 6' and 'Class 7' programs, which allowed low-priced dairy ingredients to undersell American dairy products. Further, U.S. dairy exports are expected to rise by more than $300 million per year.
There's a reason dairy and beef advocacy groups across the country praised the deal. "Dairy is one of the big winners," wrote the National Milk Producers Federation. "A crucial win for all U.S. beef producers," wrote the National Cattlemen's Beef Association.
Career politician Joe Biden spent decades in Washington failing our nation's farmers. He supported the disastrous NAFTA trade deal and now he embraces the socialist Green New Deal. That's one reason American cattle farmers would suffer under a Joe Biden presidency. In Iowa, according to one analysis, a Green New Deal methane tax would cost cattle farmers $2,000 per cow—nearly $8 billion each year.
The men and women of America's cattle industry support more than $76 billion in sales per year—and that number will only continue to grow as farmers take advantage of the pro-agriculture policies championed by President Trump and his administration.
  