
    The United States is joining with Australia, China, India, Japan, and South Korea to accelerate clean development.
This partnership will focus on voluntary practical measures taken by these six countries in the Asia-Pacific region to create new investment opportunities, build local capacity, and remove barriers to the introduction of clean, more efficient technologies.
This partnership will help each country meet nationally designed strategies for improving energy security, reducing pollution, and addressing the long-term challenge of climate change.
We are focused on cooperation to achieve practical results.
The partnership will promote the development and deployment of existing and emerging cleaner, more efficient technologies and practices that will achieve practical results in areas such as:



      
Energy Efficiency


      
Methane Capture and Use


      
Rural/Village Energy Systems




      
Clean Coal


      
Civilian Nuclear Power


      
Advanced Transportation




      
Liquefied Natural Gas


      
Geothermal


      
Building and Home Construction/Operation




      
Bioenergy


      
Agriculture/Forestry


      
Hydropower/Wind




      
Power/Solar Power


      



      




We are pursuing a balanced approach to overcome poverty with policies that promote clean development.

Overcoming extreme poverty will also improve the environment. Stagnant economies are one of the world's greatest environmental threats, because people who lack food, shelter, and sanitation cannot be expected to preserve the environment at the expense of their own survival - and poor societies cannot afford to invest in cleaner, more efficient technologies.
The rapid, sustained economic progress of poor nations will lead to dramatic environmental improvements. And the best way to help nations develop, while limiting pollution and improving public health, is to promote technologies for generating energy that is clean, affordable, and secure.
Some have suggested the best solution to environmental challenges and climate change is to oppose development and put the world on an energy diet. But today, about two billion people have no access to any form of modern energy - and blocking that access would condemn them to permanent poverty, disease, high infant mortality, polluted water, and polluted air.

We are taking action on climate change in a broad, pro-growth context.

Climate change is a serious long-term issue, requiring sustained action over many generations by both developed and developing countries. Developing and deploying innovative technologies that are cleaner and more efficient are the keys to addressing our climate challenge.
We know the surface of the Earth is warmer and an increase in greenhouse gases caused by human activity is contributing to the problem. Though there have been past disagreements about the best way to address this issue, we are acting to help developing countries adopt new energy sources.
The greatest progress will be assured by a cooperative effort that combines our strategies with the best strategies of other nations to improve economic and energy security, reduce harmful air pollution, and reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
We oppose any policy that would achieve reductions by putting Americans out of work or by simply shifting emissions from one country to another. Like us, developing countries are unlikely to join in approaches that foreclose their own economic growth and development.

  