
    Pool Report by Patrick Wilson, Richmond Times-Dispatch 



Sent:
Reports:




July 1, 202215:57

FLOTUS pool report on health clinic event from Richmond Times-Dispatch
First lady Jill Biden visited a health clinic outside Richmond, Va., on Friday afternoon to encourage parents to vaccinate children from 6 months to 5 years old against COVID-19.
The first lady toured the Henrico County Health Department East Clinic, 1400 N. Laburnum Ave., greeting staff and parents of children 5 and under who are now eligible for the COVID-19 vaccine following recent approval by the FDA and CDC for young children to receive the vaccine.
"The relief is finally here – a vaccine for our youngest children," she said.
She encouraged parents to have their children vaccinated and to consult with their physicians over any concerns.
"Parents, this is your choice and we want you to have all the information you need to make that choice," Biden said, referring parents to the CDC website vaccines.gov to find a vaccine site.
She spoke to press, elected leaders and local health officials at the multi-purpose clinic, where parents of children under 5 had brought their children to receive COVID-19 vaccines.
Biden greeted parents and children in a waiting area shortly after 1 p.m. "Thank you for coming in today," she told them. "Thank you for doing this and protecting your children."
Dr. Melissa Viray, the acting health director for the Richmond-Henrico Health District, helped escort Biden through the clinic.
Biden greeted families and children in individual waiting rooms before the children were vaccinated, and shook hands with staff. "I promise it doesn't hurt and I'm a scaredy cat when it comes to shots," she told one family.
Chris Beck, a high-school science teacher from Chesterfield County, Va., brought his son, Ezra Beck, age 2, and his nephew, Wayne Ham, age 4, to the clinic for a vaccine and asked Biden to take a photo with them.
Beck told the pooler that he and his wife were eager to get the children vaccinated so the children don't get sick or needlessly transmit COVID-19. "I am very excited about it," he said.
After Biden visited with families, she and other officials gathered in another room to speak to a small group of health department employees, government officials and press.
U.S. Rep. Donald McEachin, D-4th, said that while the pandemic has created serious challenges, parents can now "rest a little easier knowing that they can get their young children vaccinated against the virus."
"This is such an important milestone in our continued fight against the pandemic and a testament to the leadership of the Biden administration," McEachin said.
Ashish Jha, who leads the nation's coronavirus response as White House COVID-19 Response Coordinator, said it took a long time for the vaccine to be available to young children because officials needed to get it right. He said the vaccine was "extremely safe" for children and would prevent them from getting sick.
"It took time but I think it was worth it because what we have now is two vaccines for this population, both of which are extraordinarily safe, both of which are extraordinarily effective," Jha said.
While children don't get as sick as adults from COVID-19, he said, many of them have, even without any pre-existing conditions.
Kyle Wendling and his wife, Dr. Cathy Marcelo, went to the clinic to get a vaccine for their 9-month-old son, Patrick. Wendling spoke at the event and said the vaccine was safe and effective in protecting against COVID-19.
He said Friday was a great moment for his family because Patrick had now received the same protection against the virus.
Biden thanked the press for helping spread the message that vaccines are now available for young children.
"We couldn't do this without you – we couldn't get the word out," she said.
To parents, she said, the vaccine is safe, effective and free. "So make the decision to protect your children with the same vaccine that has already saved millions of lives," she said.
Officials did not take questions from press.
Biden waved to the group as she left the room where the speakers made their presentations. "Have a happy Fourth of July," she said.
Others in attendance included state Sen. Jennifer McClellan, D-Richmond, Richmond Mayor Levar Stoney, Frank J. Thornton, the vice chair of the Henrico County Board of Supervisors, and Cari Tretina, chief of staff for the county.




  