
    Biden openly admits he wants to "end fossil fuel" and sacrifice hundreds of thousands of oil and gas jobs, betraying workers and leaving America at the mercy of foreign energy producers 
Key Takeaways:

Today, President Trump is visiting Texas to tour an oil rig and showcase how the U.S. is achieving energy dominance
While President Trump has helped make America an energy super-power, Biden's radical energy policies would kill jobs and leave the U.S. at the mercy of foreign energy producers
Biden has made clear – he wants to "end" fossil fuels, saying they would have "no place" in a Biden presidency

Biden has said he would "love to make sure we can't use any oil or gas, period" and that he would "make sure" fossil fuels and fracking are "eliminated"
In March, Biden said he would ban any new fracking or future oil and gas development on federal lands


Biden openly admits he would "sacrifice" "hundreds of thousands" of blue-collar energy jobs in pursuit of his anti-energy agenda

Over 10.3 million American jobs are supported by the oil and gas industry
Biden's plan to ban new energy development on federal lands alone would threaten an estimated 268,000 jobs


Biden has proposed completely eliminating oil, gas, and coal from the U.S. power grid by 2035

Prior estimates show eliminating oil, gas, and coal from the U.S. energy grid would cost anywhere from $4.5 trillion to $5.7 trillion, with an average cost of $35,000 per household?



BIDEN HAS PLEDGED THAT FOSSIL FUELS AND FRACKING WOULD BE "ELIMINATED" IF HE IS PRESIDENT
In July 2019, Biden Said That There Would Be No Place For Fossil Fuels And Fracking In A Biden Administration, Saying "We Would Make Sure It's Eliminated." DANA BASH: "Just to clarify, would there be any place for fossil fuels, including coal and fracking, in a Biden administration?" JOE BIDEN: "No, we would -- we would work it out. We would make sure it's eliminated and no more subsidies for either one of those, either -- any fossil fuel." (Joe Biden, Remarks At A Democratic Presidential Primary Debate, Detroit, MI, 7/31/19)

Click To Watch
In March, Biden Reiterated He Would Block Any "New" Fracking, Any Coal Plant Construction, And All Oil And Gas "Drilling On Federal Lands." BERNIE SANDERS: "Joe believes, to continue fracking. Correct me if I am wrong. What we need to do right now is bring the world together, tell the fossil fuel industry that we are going to move aggressively to win solar, sustainable energies..." JAKE TAPPER: "Thank you." SANDERS: "... and energy efficiency." TAPPER: "Thank you, Senator." JOE BIDEN: "No more, no new fracking. And by the way, on the Recovery Act, I was able to make sure we invested $90 billion in making sure we brought down the price of solar and wind, that is lower than the price of coal. That's why not another new coal plant will be built. I did that while you were watching, number one. Number two, we're in a situation where we in fact have the ability to lay down the tracks where no one can change the dynamic. And that's why we should be talking about things like I've been talking about for years, high speed rail, taking millions of automobiles off the road. Making sure that we move in a direction where no more, no more drilling on federal lands, making sure that we invest in changing the entire fleet of the United States military." (Joe Biden, Remarks During Presidential Debate, Washington, DC, 3/15/20)

Click To Watch
In September 2019, Biden Vowed To "End Fossil Fuel." JOE BIDEN: "But kiddo, I want you to just take a look, ok. You don't have to agree, but I want you to look in my eyes, I guarantee you, I guarantee you we are going to end fossil fuel and I am not going to cooperate with them, ok." (Joe Biden, Remarks At A Campaign Event, New Castle, NH, 9/6/19)

Click To Watch
In December 2019, Biden Said He Would "Love To" Ban Fracking Nationwide And "Love To Make Sure We Can't Use Any Oil Or Gas, Period." JOE BIDEN: "Look, you're going to ban fracking all across America right now, right?" VOTER: "I would love to." BIDEN: "Yeah. I'd love to too. I'd love to make sure we cant' use any oil or gas, period." (Sunrise Movement, YouTube, 12/6/19)

Click To Watch
Biden Is "Willing To Sacrifice" "Hundreds Of Thousands Of Blue Collar" Oil And Gas Jobs
In December, When Asked If He Was "Willing To Sacrifice" "Hundreds Of Thousands Of Blue Collar Jobs" As Part Of His Energy Policies, Biden Did Not Hesitate In Saying "Yes." TIM ALBERTA: "Vice President Biden, I'd like to ask you. Three consecutive American presidents have enjoyed stints of explosive economic growth due to a boom in oil and natural gas production. As president, would you be willing to sacrifice some of that growth, even knowing potentially that it could displace thousands, maybe hundreds of thousands of blue-collar workers in the interest of transitioning to that greener economy?" JOE BIDEN: "The answer is yes." (Joe Biden, Remarks During Democratic Debate, Los Angeles, CA, 12/19/19)

Click To Watch
Oil And Gas Is A Critical Part Of The U.S. Economy – Supporting More Than 10 Million Jobs And Contributing $1.3 Trillion
In 2015, The Oil And Gas Industry Contributed $1.3 Trillion To America's Gross Domestic Product – 7.6 Percent Of The Total. ("Natural Gas And Oil: A Critical Contributor To American Prosperity," American Petroleum Institute, 7/17)
The Oil And Gas Industries Support 10.3 Million Jobs Nationally. ("Natural Gas And Oil: A Critical Contributor To American Prosperity," American Petroleum Institute, 7/17)
BIDEN'S PLAN TO BLOCK NEW DRILLING ON FEDERAL LANDS WOULD BE DEVASTATING
Biden's Plan To Block New Oil And Gas Development On Federal Lands Would Kill 268,000 Jobs And Cut Billions In Royalties
In March, Biden Promised There Would Be "No Ability For The Oil Industry To Continue To Drill" Both Offshore And On Federal Lands If He Is President. JOE BIDEN: "Number one, no more subsidies for the fossil fuel industry, no more drilling on federal lands, no more drilling, including offshore, no ability for the oil industry to continue to drill, period, ends." (Joe Biden, Remarks At Democratic Debate, Washington, DC, 3/15/20)

Click To Watch
A Ban On Issuing Future Leases On Federal Lands Would Threaten An Estimated 268,000 Jobs. ("What If…Energy Production Was Banned On Federal Lands And Waters?" U.S. Chamber Of Commerce, 8/26/16)

73,000 Direct Jobs Would Immediately Be Impacted By A Ban On Permitting On Federal Lands. ("What If…Energy Production Was Banned On Federal Lands And Waters?" U.S. Chamber Of Commerce, 8/26/16)
195,000 Indirect And Induced Jobs Would Be Impacted By This Ban. ("What If…Energy Production Was Banned On Federal Lands And Waters?" U.S. Chamber Of Commerce, 8/26/16)

A Ban On New Energy Production On Federal Lands Would Lead To A $6 Billion Drop In Annual Royalties. ("What If…Energy Production Was Banned On Federal Lands And Waters?" U.S. Chamber Of Commerce, 8/26/16)

States Would Lost $780 Million In Annual Royalties. ("What If…Energy Production Was Banned On Federal Lands And Waters?" U.S. Chamber Of Commerce, 8/26/16)

Biden Has Pledged To Eliminate Oil, Gas, And Coal By 2035
Biden's Latest Climate Plan Calls For 100 Percent "Clean Energy" By 2035, Claiming He Will Spend A Staggering $2 Trillion Over Four Years To Make This Happen. "Joe Biden on Tuesday will call for setting a 100% clean-electricity standard by 2035 and investing $2 trillion over four years on clean energy, three people familiar with his plan said Monday." (Jennifer Epstein, Ari Natter, and Jennifer A Dlouhy, "Biden To Call For $2 Trillion In Spending On Clean Energy," Bloomberg, 7/13/20)

In Doing So, Biden Is Embracing The Far-Left Climate Positions Of Elizabeth Warren, Jay Inslee, And Bernie Sanders. "Biden's new proposals bring him closer to the positions of his more progressive former primary opponents, including Massachusetts Senator Elizabeth Warren and Washington Governor Jay Inslee, whose campaign focused on climate change. Inslee had proposed a 100% clean electricity standard by 2035 that Warren later endorsed. A task force of allies of Biden and Senator Bernie Sanders offered a similar idea last week, recommending that Democrats commit to eliminate carbon pollution from power plants by 2035." (Jennifer Epstein, Ari Natter, and Jennifer A Dlouhy, "Biden To Call For $2 Trillion In Spending On Clean Energy," Bloomberg, 7/13/20)
This 2035 Target Grew Out Of A Unity Task Force Recommendation, Which Included Climate Co-Chair Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez. "The 2035 target date for 100% clean energy – 15 years sooner than Biden had campaigned on – grew out of a unity task force with former rival Sen. Bernie Sanders, I-Vt. The co-chair of the climate task force, Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, D-N.Y., who had pushed for more ambitious goals to eliminate carbon emissions called the Green New Deal, said she was pleased with the unity platform." (Bart Jansen, "Biden Proposes $2 Trillion To Spur Development Of 100% Clean Energy By 2035," USA Today, 7/14/20)

A Move To Eliminate Carbon Emissions In Biden's Time Frame Would Cost An Estimated $4.5 Trillion
A Wood Mackenzie Study Found That 100 Percent De-Carbonization Would Cost An Estimated $4.5 Trillion. "We estimate the cost of full decarbonisation of the US power grid at US$4.5 trillion, given the current state of technology." (Dan Shreve, "Deep Decarbonisation: the Multi-Trillion-Dollar Question," Wood Mackenzie, 6/27/19)

This Equals An Average Cost Per American Household Of $35,000, Or Roughly $2,300 Per Year. "We estimate the cost of full decarbonisation of the US power grid at US$4.5 trillion, given the current state of technology. That's nearly as much as what the country has spent, since 2001, on the war on terror. From a budgetary perspective, the cost is staggering at US$35,000 per household – nearly US$2,000 per year if assuming a 20-year plan." (Dan Shreve, "Deep Decarbonisation: the Multi-Trillion-Dollar Question," Wood Mackenzie, 6/27/19)

An Analysis From The Non-Partisan American Action Forum Found That A Move To 100 Percent Renewable Energy Would Cost $5.7 Trillion. "A 'Green New Deal' that includes a proposal to move 100 percent of U.S. electricity production to renewable sources would require at least $5.7 trillion of investment in renewable energy and storage." (Philip Rossetti, "What It Costs To Go 100 Percent Renewable," American Action Forum, 1/25/19)

(Philip Rossetti, "What It Costs To Go 100 Percent Renewable," American Action Forum, 1/25/19)
Biden Is Open To Banning Crude Oil And Natural Gas Exports
In September 2019, Biden Suggested That He Was Open To Banning Crude Oil And Natural Gas Exports. CNN'S ANDERSON COOPER: "So let me ask you about that, because you talk about exporting. The United States is projected to be a net energy exporter by next year, largely because of crude oil and natural gas. Should the U.S. ban fossil fuel exports, as some other candidates are calling for?" JOE BIDEN: "Well, I think -- I think we should, in fact, depending on what it is they're exporting for what they're replacing. Everything is incremental. Everything is incremental." (Joe Biden, Remarks At A CNN Climate Change Town Hall. New York City, NY, 9/4/19)

Click To Watch
In November 2019, The U.S. Became A Net Energy Producer For The First Time Since Records Began 70 Years Ago.  "The U.S. solidified its status as an energy producer by posting the first full month as a net exporter of crude and petroleum products since government records began in 1949. The nation exported 89,000 barrels a day more than it imported in September, according to data from the Energy Information Administration Friday. While the U.S. has previously reported net exports on a weekly basis, today's figures mark a key milestone that few would have predicted just a decade ago, before the onset of the shale boom. (Stephen Cunningham, "U.S. Posts First Month In 70 Years As A Net Petroleum Exporter," Bloomberg, 11/29/19)
  