
    Mr. Prime Minister, gentlemen:
Sir Henry Wotton, in his letter to James the First, referred to "My good associates, by whose light and leading I have walked."
Someone suggested, today, Mr. Prime Minister, that I begin by saying this toast: "My good disassociates."
But that is not the case at all.
For 200 years the British and the Americans have had their differences, but from them have emerged a strong bond, a hearty spirit, and a mutual respect that neither adversaries nor age can diminish.
Prime Ministers and Presidents have met often in the long history of our two nations-usually with admirable results.
You may recall that during the War of 1812, President James Madison made a sudden and unplanned--and not altogether pleasant--move away from his house. His departure might have been stayed had he met as frequently with his counterpart, the Earl of Liverpool, as I have with you.
Let us hope we do not make the same mistake again. Mrs. Johnson has always admired Dolley Madison, but I do not think she desires to emulate her--at least in that way.You and I have many things in common, Mr. Prime Minister.
One, of course, is politics--and election results--including the difficult problem that goes with an enlarged majority.
Another is economics--including that most fascinating and most unfortunately named subject, "the balance of payments."
You and I know it most appropriately as the "imbalance of payments." Those who wonder if we can solve this problem, I think, should be reminded of the woman in an English court that was charged with shoplifting, who was asked if she had anything to say on her own behalf. She said, "Yes, sir, I have. I take only British goods."
A third interest, Mr. Prime Minister, is our mutual fascination with transportation. Today I am thinking of ships and airplanes in particular.
While you and I share a common purpose in several fields, the same is true, I think, of our peoples in our two countries.
Anglo-American relations are not a partisan issue in either your country or mine.
Our friendship for many years is built on a common history, a common language, and most of all common trust--and a common responsibility to the peace of the world. We have worked together as steadfast friends in a never-ending quest for peace and order. And we shall continue to do so.
Both of our countries in this century have given their treasure and the lives of their people to ensure that reason, and not force, is the way to the future.
We are aware, as we meet here this afternoon, that timid men do not master great problems like those that we face during these hours.
My countrymen in particular have learned that England is not a nation of amateurs. We know her as a country whose greatest resource, as Francis Doyle once wrote, is "the strong heart of her sons."
That is why I am confident you shall prevail.
To those who urge you to think small, I can only reply: "Impossible. A nation that has given us the tongue of a Shakespeare, the faith of a Milton, and the courage of a Churchill must always be a force for progress, an influence for good, in the affairs of men."
In World War II, Mr. Prime Minister, England saved herself by fortitude and the world by example. You personally are asking of the British people today the same fortitude--the same resolve--that turned the tide in those days.
I do think and I must say that England is blessed now, as it was blessed then, with gallant and hardy leadership. In you, sir, she has a man of mettle. She is blessed with a leader whose own enterprise and courage will show the way. We believe your firmness and your leadership have impressed the people of the world deeply in the tradition of the great men of Britain.
Mr. Prime Minister, I feel blessed, in a time of some distress and danger, with a comrade who has, in addition to his pluck, a delightful sense of humor.
In the late evening, when I am going through that night reading and the cables, Mr. Prime Minister, that does make a difference.
Lord Palmerston once said that Britain has no permanent friends--she has only permanent interests. With due respect to that illustrious British statesman, I must disagree. For Americans, Britain is a permanent friend, and the unbreakable link between our two nations is our permanent interest.
So to this small gathering of leaders of this Government, and to some of our friends in the press, I should like to ask all of you to join me in a toast. In the presence of her Prime Minister, let us all now toast the Queen.
  