
    The following list does not include promotions of members of the Uniformed Services, nominations to the Service Academies, or nominations of Foreign Service officers.
Submitted July 29
James M. Bodner, of Virginia, to be Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Policy, vice Jan Lodal.
Eugene A. Conti, Jr., of Maryland, to be an Assistant Secretary of Transportation, vice Frank Eugene Kruesi, resigned.
Gregory H. Friedman, of Colorado, to be Inspector General of the Department of Energy, vice John C. Layton, resigned.
Harry Litman, of Pennsylvania, to be U.S. Attorney for the Western District of Pennsylvania, vice Frederick W. Thieman, resigned.
Paul M. Warner, of Utah, to be U.S. Attorney for the District of Utah, vice Scott M. Matheson, resigned.
Patricia T. Montoya, of New Mexico, to be Commissioner on Children, Youth, and Families, Department of Health and Human Services, vice Olivia A. Golden, resigned.
Norine E. Noonan, of Florida, to be an Assistant Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, vice Robert James Huggett, resigned.
Submitted July 30
Francis M. Allegra, of Virginia, to be a Judge of the U.S. Court of Federal Claims for a term of 15 years, vice Lawrence S. Margolis, term expired.
Legrome D. Davis, of Pennsylvania, to be U.S. District Judge for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, vice Edmund V. Ludwig, retired.
Harold Lucas, of New Jersey, to be an Assistant Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, vice Kevin Emanuel Marchman.
Stephen W. Preston, of the District of Columbia, to be General Counsel of the Department of the Navy, vice Steven S. Honigman.
Joseph R. Biden, Jr., of Delaware, to be a Representative of the United States of America to the 53d Session of the General Assembly of the United Nations.
Cardell Cooper, of New Jersey, to be an Assistant Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, vice Saul N. Ramirez, Jr.
Montie R. Deer, of Kansas, to be Chairman of the National Indian Gaming Commission for the term of 3 years, vice Tadd Johnson.
Rod Grams, of Minnesota, to be a Representative of the United States of America to the 53d Session of the General Assembly of the United Nations.
Charles G. Groat, of Texas, to be Director of the U.S. Geological Survey, vice Gordon P. Eaton, resigned.
Claiborne deB. Pell, of Rhode Island, to be an Alternate Representative of the United States of America to the 53d Session of the General Assembly of the United Nations.
Michael M. Reyna, of California, to be a member of the Farm Credit Administration Board, Farm Credit Administration, for a term expiring May 21, 2004, vice Doyle Cook, term expired.
John U. Sepulveda, of New York to be Deputy Director of the Office of Personnel Management, vice Janice R. Lachance.
Joseph E. Stevens, Jr., of Missouri, to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation for a term expiring December 10, 2003 (reappointment).
David C. Williams, of Maryland, to be Inspector General, Department of the Treasury, vice Valerie Lau, resigned.
Withdrawn July 30
Daryl L. Jones, of Florida, to be Secretary of the Air Force, vice Sheila Widnall, resigned, which was sent to the Senate on October 22, 1997.
Tadd Johnson, of Minnesota, to be Chair of the National Indian Gaming Commission for the term of 3 years, vice Harold A. Monteau, resigned, which was sent to the Senate on July 31, 1997, and September 2, 1997.
Cardell Cooper, of New Jersey, to be Assistant Administrator, Office of Solid Waste, Environmental Protection Agency, vice Elliott Pearson Laws, resigned, which was sent to the Senate on September 2, 1997.
Submitted July 31
Terrence L. Bracy, of Virginia, to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation for a term expiring October 6, 2004 (reappointment).
Withdrawn July 31
Michael D. Schattman, of Texas, to be U.S. District Judge for the Northern District of Texas, vice Harold Barefoot Sanders, Jr., retired, which was sent to the Senate on March 21, 1997.
  