
    Pool Reports by Cassie Semyon, Spectrum News 



Sent:
Reports:




July 11, 202313:25

VP Pool Report #1
Hello from the EEOB, where the Vice President is holding an ADA Roundtable event. A clarification note from the original planning, the event is not in the Indian Treaty room, but EEOB 350, a conference room space.
The event was scheduled to start at 1pm, but the pool was brought in at 1:02pm. The VP was seated in the center of a U shaped table set up, wearing a lavender pantsuit. Secretary Pete Buttigieg is sitting to the VP's right, and opened up remarks by describing the room set up for those who may be unable to see them (sorry, the otter started late and we missed this part). There was also an interpreter in attendance to make sure everyone in the room could participate in the conversation.
The VP focused on the needs to expand accessibility not just when it comes to transportation, but also when it comes to access to polling places and having accommodations at the ready for those to cast their ballot, making sure there is equal access to reproductive care, and she also touched on how AI may have ingrained biases that can discriminate against people with disabilities.
Pool was ushered out about 1:19pm.
Here are some quotes from the event and a link to the otter: >https://otter.ai/u/lOhwMxx1U4OZtlvxKYkX-Orm6D4<
Tweet with a photo of the room: https://twitter.com/casssemyon/status/1678816152913342464?s=46&t=bOw80na_GSQRcxJ7HkMzKg
Sec. Buttigieg: "Improving accessibility benefits everyone in our country, those with disabilities, those who will age into disability and everybody else, because when we empower millions of Americans to live their lives to their fullest potential, we are not only empowering them to thrive, but also ensuring that the country can benefit from their contribution."
VP: "Every person in our nation has a fundamental right to participate fully in our society, and to determine their own future, the right to self determination, the right to dignity. And we as members of civil society have a duty, It is not about a whim or a desire, with a duty to ensure that that promise is a reality for all people in our country."
VP: "We celebrate today and this month the progress that we have made but we also then recommit clear in the work that we still have yet to do. People with disabilities still face incredible challenges in participating fully in our society. And we have to be responsible and truthful about where we are and what we must do."
VP: "Voting rights for example, I was proud to convene a group of many of the leaders who are here many months ago to discuss on the issue of voting rights, how folks with disability are directly impacted by laws that are being passed in various states. That in my opinion, many are intentional in the desire to make it more difficult for people to vote, not to mention the status quo before those laws. Because we created incredible obstacles for people with disabilities to be able to exercise their legal rights, to have a voice in the future of their country and government. I've heard stories of polling stations for example, without ramps, I've heard stories of individuals going to the polling place asking for a private place where they can then in a private way, register and submit their vote and having to have the courage which we shouldn't have to require people just speak in a crowded room about the need to have accommodations."
As always, check the otter/quotes against the official transcript.
Here is some information on background from a WH official on today's event:
Today, as part of Disability Pride Month and the 33rd Anniversary of the ADA, Vice President Kamala Harris will convene a roundtable with disability rights leaders to highlight the Biden-Harris Administration's commitment to building a nation where people with disabilities are afforded the opportunities, independence, and respect they deserve, including through efforts to increase transportation accessibility.
In her remarks, the Vice President will applaud disabilities advocates for their leadership, highlight how the Americans with Disabilities Act has transformed our country, outline some of the work that lies ahead, and share that the Department of Transportation will soon announce a new rule to help address accessibility in airplane restrooms.
The Vice President will be joined by Secretary of Transportation Pete Buttigieg, other Biden-Harris Administration officials, and advocates—full list of participants attached. You can tune into the roundtable discussion at www.whitehouse.gov/live at 1:00PM ET.
Since taking office, the Vice President has met with disability rights leaders to discuss some of the most pressing issues facing our nation:

In July of 2022, on the 32nd anniversary of the signing of the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA), the Vice President convened a roundtable conversation with disability rights leaders to discuss access to reproductive health care.

Following the roundtable, she hosted an ADA anniversary reception at her residence.




In July of 2021, the Vice President delivered remarkson the 31st anniversary of the signing of the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) and proclamation signing. 


In July of 2021, the Vice President conveneddisabilities rights leaders to discuss access to voting. 

The Vice President's Record on Policy Related to People with Disabilities:

The Vice President has understood and fought to address the intersectional needs of the disability community over the course of her career.

As U.S. Senator, the Vice President ensured that people with disabilities were considered in legislation she authored, including legislation to support domestic workers and to help communities prepare for natural disasters like wildfires. 
As Attorney General of California, the Vice President won a $324 million settlement for disabled and elderly Medi-Cal beneficiaries, the largest Medi-Cal recovery in California's history. The Vice President also helped shut down ten private, fraudulent health insurance websites that misled Californians by imitating the state's official ACA marketplace—predatory practices that would have disproportionately impacted people with disabilities.



Participants:
- The Vice President
- Secretary Pete Buttigieg, U.S. Department of Transportation
- Former Congressman Tony Coelho (D-CA-15)
- Carmel Martin, Domestic Policy Advisor to the VP
- Theo Braddy, Executive Director, National Council on Independent Living
- Zainab Aklebsi, President, Deaf and Hard of Hearing Consumer Advocacy Network and National Association of the Deaf
- Heather Ansley, Associate Executive Director, Paralyzed Veterans of America
- Teresa Nguyen, Brandeis University Community Living Policy Center
- Gabriel Cazares, Executive Director, LINK Houston
That's all from me, feel free to reach out with any questions!



  