
    DES MOINES, IA -- U.S. Senator John McCain's presidential campaign today announced the launch of the Iowa Veterans for McCain Leadership with a gathering at the state capitol to pledge their support for John McCain and to screen the campaign video entitled, "The Obama Iraq Documentary: Whatever the Politics Demand."
"Whether as a soldier, a leader or a citizen, John McCain has always put his country first," said Curly Hultman, Chair of Iowa Veterans for McCain. "He has been a tireless advocate for our troops who are currently serving, as well as all the soldiers from different generations who have returned to civilian life. Unlike his opponent, John McCain doesn't need to make campaign stops overseas in an attempt to beef up his foreign policy credentials. He already has the credentials, the experience and the judgment we need. That is why veterans throughout Iowa are eager to give our support to John McCain."
Chuck Larson Sr., Vice Chair of the Iowa Veterans for McCain, added, "My son and I have both spent time in the combat zone in Iraq, and I can say that in these dangerous times we cannot afford to have an inexperienced commander in chief. We need a leader with strong foreign policy and national security experience and that is Senator John McCain.
Featured speakers included Iowa Veterans for McCain Chairman Major General (Ret.) Evan (Curly) Hultman and Vice Chairman Colonel (Ret.) Charles (Chuck) Larson Sr.
"The Obama Iraq Documentary: Whatever the Politics Demand" can be viewed by clicking here.
IOWA VETERANS FOR JOHN MCCAIN LEADERSHIP
 Major General (Ret.) Curly Hultman, Chairman
Colonel (Ret.) Chuck Larson Sr., Vice Chairman
Steve Lukan, State Representative
Richard W. Allfree
Andy Anderson
Dr. Dale Andres
Lee Booton
Roger Bradley
Steve Brown
Robert Camblin
Tim Cox
George Crowder
Earl Draayer
Oliver Eason
Russ Eggers
David Elwell
Harold E. Getty
Jim Gruettner
Norman Gunnink
Debra Hoback
Jason Hogie
William R. Holland
Evan Hultman
Rick Lamere
Greg Linker
Steve Lukan
Gene Madson
Paul Marean
Robert Marvin
Robert Mock
Richard Morrin
Richard Nace
Maurice Phillips
Richard Rattray
Dan Roupe
Robert Sentman
Brandon Shepherd
Deborah Smith
John Tonsfeldt
Michael D. Treinen
Pete Vanderhoff
Gary Wattnem
Mark Weber
Chad Workman
James W. Wright
Richard "Doc" Zortman
  