
    Pool Reports by Katie Rogers, The New York Times 



Sent:
Reports:




July 23, 202320:33 EDT

FLOTUS travel pool report 1: En route to Paris
Good evening from Joint Base Andrews, where it's 83 degrees and First Lady Jill Biden is heading to Paris.
There is another pooler waiting in Paris, but I'm sending this note ahead of our departure.
The First Lady boarded the small plane, which is a C-40C and is so small that it does not have the United States of America paint job, at 8:27 pm, without a backward glance. Ashley Biden is traveling with the First Lady on this trip, per the East Wing.
We are wheels up shortly at 8:32 pm.
Trip details from the East Wing are below:
REPORTABLE BACKGROUND FROM THE OFFICE OF THE FIRST LADY
Day 1 of 4: SUNDAY, JULY 23
From Sunday, July 23rd through Wednesday, July 26th, First Lady Jill Biden will travel to France to make the United States rejoining the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) and to highlight the importance of the United States' leadership and collaboration in education, cultural heritage, and science around the world. This will be Dr. Biden's first visit to France as First Lady.
In the evening, the First Lady will depart Washington, D.C. from Joint Base Andrews to Paris, France. This departure will be covered by the traveling press pool.
Full trip guidance below:
TRIP GUIDANCE FOR FIRST LADY JILL BIDEN TO FRANCE JULY 23-26
From Sunday, July 23rd through Wednesday, July 26th, First Lady Jill Biden will travel to France to mark the United States rejoining the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) and highlight the importance of the United States' leadership and collaboration in education, cultural heritage, and science around the world. This will be Dr. Biden's first visit to France as First Lady.
Sunday, July 23rd, 2023
In the evening, the First Lady will depart Washington, D.C. from Joint Base Andrews to Paris, France. This departure will be covered by the traveling press pool. Monday, July 24th, 2023
In the morning, the First Lady will arrive in Paris, France at Paris-Orly Airport. The arrival will be open press and will be managed by U.S. Embassy Paris.In the afternoon, the First Lady will greet families and staff of the U.S. Embassy Paris. This greet will be closed press.Tuesday, July 25th, 2023
In the morning, the First Lady will meet with Mrs. Brigitte Macron at the Élysée Palace. This arrival will be open to pre-credentialed media and managed by Palace Communications.
In the afternoon, the First Lady will attend and deliver remarks at the UNESCO flag-raising ceremony and participate in a greet with UNESCO Director-General Audrey Azoulay. Portions of this event will be open press and managed by UNESCO.In the evening, the First Lady will attend a reception hosted by U.S. Ambassador Denise Bauer. This reception will be closed press.Wednesday, July 26th, 2023
In the morning, the First Lady will depart Paris, France for Brittany and Normandy, France. This departure will be covered by the traveling press pool.In the morning, the First Lady will arrive at Dinard-Pleurtuit-Saint-Malo Airport. This arrival will be open to pre-credentialed media and managed by U.S. Embassy Paris.In the afternoon, the First Lady will visit the Brittany American Cemetery to pay respect to American service members who lost their lives in Northern France during World War II. This visit will be pooled press.
Afterwards, the First Lady will visit Mont Saint-Michel, a UNESCO World Heritage Site, to highlight the importance of preserving cultural heritage sites around the world. This visit will be pooled press.



  