
    I AM GLAD that my schedule has allowed me time to come by and meet the other members of the Embassy staff.
This is a beautiful building. I understand that it is designed to withstand earthquakes. I wish I could say the same for the place where I work.
Secretary Rusk, I think, would share my feeling. It is a little unfair that you work down here in the shadow of a volcano--while back in Washington we sit right on top of one.
Many of you on the staff may not have had an opportunity to meet Assistant Secretary of State Covey Oliver. I also want you to meet my wife, Lady Bird. Mrs. Johnson received such glowing reports from Liz Carpenter about what a lovely country El Salvador was that she insisted that she be allowed to come along to see what her own beautification projects back home are supposed to look like when they are completed.
I am also delighted to have with me my daughter, Luci. Luci is well known these days as the mother of my favorite grandchild, Lyn. Little Lyn himself would have been here with us, too, but we decided that it would be an insult to an old Salvadorian tradition to interfere with his siesta--despite the fact that he insists on observing the tradition about 16 hours each day.
The primary reason I wanted to stop by today, however, was to tell you how much I appreciate all the hard work you have done in arranging and coordinating my visit to El Salvador.
This is a large undertaking and it is just as important as it is involved and demanding. Members of the executive staff have told me that they have never had more cooperation from any embassy than they had here in El Salvador.
I know you fully realize that you are here at a time of critical importance in the history and development of El Salvador and Central America. Tomorrow, when the scores of visitors are gone, the eyes of the Americas will still be on you, for your job will not be done.
The nations of Central America are in a period of dramatic and unprecedented change. Whether the momentum of that change can be guided responsibly and progressively by democratic, stable governments which are responsive to the needs and the dreams of the people is a question which all of us will have to help answer.
In the end, of course, it will be the people of Central America who will determine the destiny of this region. But we share with those citizens the challenge and responsibility to alleviate and finally conquer the problems of sickness and disease, poor education, unstable economies, inadequate distribution of wealth, and unchecked population growth.
Yesterday, El Salvador, along with Costa Rica, Guatemala, Honduras, and Nicaragua, pledged themselves to a series of reforms and innovations which could be substantial steps toward the social, economic, and educational goals I have mentioned. We in the United States, as a concerned neighbor and friend, will continue to do our part to help the nations of Central America shape their futures. We will try to provide both assistance and incentive:
--assistance by contributing know-how and dollars--when they are wanted, needed, and used wisely;
--incentive by conducting ourselves as a neighbor in such a way that we can continue to warrant the respect and friendship of the nations around us.
Together, I hope that we can assist the nations of Central America in realizing the great potential of the human and physical resources of this beautiful area of the world.
I am sorry I cannot spend more time with all of you, but we have some appointments which we must keep. Before I go, however, I do want to express to you on the Embassy staff America's appreciation for your efforts on behalf of us all.
Thank you for taking part of your own Sunday morning to welcome us here today. Know that I appreciate it very much.
  