
    Pool Reports by Gerren Keith Gaynor, TheGrio 



Sent:
Reports:




July 20, 2023 09:50

In-Town Pool Report #1
Good morning!
It is Thursday, July 20. I am your in-town pooler on this very sunny, warm day.
As you may already know, POTUS is traveling to Philadelphia this morning to promote Bidenomics.
Principal Deputy Press Secretary Olivia Dalton will gaggle on Air Force One.
See full schedule for the day below:
EDT
9:00 AM THE PRESIDENT receives the Presidential Daily Briefing   Closed Press
9:35 AM Out-of-Town Pool Call Time  Joint Base Andrews Overhang
9:45 AM In-Town Pool Call Time
10:20 AM THE PRESIDENT departs the White House en route to Joint Base Andrews South Grounds  In-Town Travel Pool (Gather 10:05 AM – Palm Room Doors)
10:50 AM THE PRESIDENT departs Joint Base Andrews en route to Philadelphia, Pennsylvania Joint Base Andrews Out-of-Town Pool
11:35 AM THE PRESIDENT arrives in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania  Philadelphia International Airport, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania  Open Press
12:05 PM THE PRESIDENT participates in a tour of Philly Shipyard  Philly Shipyard, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania  Out-of-Town Pool
1:00 PM THE PRESIDENT discusses how his Bidenomics agenda is growing the economy from the middle out and the bottom up  Philly Shipyard, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania  Open Press
2:15 PM THE PRESIDENT departs Philadelphia, Pennsylvania en route to Joint Base Andrews Philadelphia International Airport, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania  Out-of-Town Pool
3:10 PM THE PRESIDENT departs Joint Base Andrews en route to the White House  Joint Base Andrews  In-Town Travel Pool
3:30 PM THE PRESIDENT arrives at the White House  South Grounds  In-Town Travel Pool
Briefing Schedule
Principal Deputy Press Secretary Olivia Dalton will gaggle aboard Air Force One en route to Phildelphia, Pennsylvania 


July 20, 2023 10:10

In-Town Pool Report #2 - Gathering for departure
Pool is gathered for the president's departure by the Palm Room doors.
POTUS is scheduled to depart the White House at 10:20. 


July 20, 2023 10:44

In-Town Pool Report #3 - Motorcade rolling to JBA
POTUS exited White House and entered vehicle at 10:40.
A fellow pooler spotted POTUS holding what appeared to be a brief case.
Motorcade began rolling at 10:41 a.m. We are now headed to Joint Base Andrews. 


July 20, 2023 11:06

In-Town Pool Report #4 - JBA arrival
There were many jovial spectators holding up cell phones as motorcade traveled down 15th Street NW en route to the highway. Otherwise, the ride was uneventful.
Motorcade arrived at JBA at 11:05 a.m. 


July 20, 2023 11:28

In-Town Pool Report #5 - AF1 gaggle time
Air Force One gaggle with Principal Deputy Press Secretary Olivia Dalton will begin at 11:35 a.m. It is being live-streamed.
Also please see the below travel details your pooler failed to send earlier.
Traveling with the President via motorcade en route to Joint Base Andrews:
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff Natalie Quillian, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations Ali Zaidi, Assistant to the President & National Climate Advisor Ben LaBolt, Assistant to the President & Director of Communications Stefanie Feldman, Assistant to the President & Staff Secretary Christian Tom, Assistant to the President & Director of Digital Strategy Celeste Drake, Deputy Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of the National Economic Council Olivia Dalton, Deputy Assistant to the President & Principal Deputy Press Secretary Marc Gustafson, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for the White House Situation Room Travis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director Sheila Grant, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Presidential Speechwriter Alana Mounce, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of the Office of Political Strategy & Outreach Justin Oswald, Special Assistant to the President & House Legislative Affairs Liason 


July 20, 2023 15:08

In-Town Pool Report #6 - AF1 lands/Motorcade rolling
AF1 landed at JBA at 2:59 p.m.
President Biden walked off AF1 at 3:04 p.m. Your pooler didn't get a good look at him.
Motorcade is en route back to the White House. 


July 20, 2023 15:37

In-Town Pool Report #7 - White House return
Motorcade arrived back at the White House South Lawn at 3:32 p.m.
Your pooler did not see POTUS enter the White House. 


July 20, 2023 15:40

In-Town Pool Report #8 - Lid
And just like that, we have a lid at 3:37 p.m.




Pool Reports below by Eugene Daniels, Politico 



Sent:
Reports:




July 20, 2023 10:46

Out of Town Pool #1 - checking in
Hey all -- I'm your print Pooler for the President's day trip to Philly.
Your pool has seen Reps. Brendan Boyle and Madeleine Dean walk in and go throuhh security.
Below is the guidance from the White House on today:
In the afternoon, the President will participate in a tour of Philly Shipyard. This tour will be covered by the out-of-town pool.
Then, the President will discuss how his Bidenomics agenda is growing the economy from the middle out and the bottom up. These remarks at Philly Shipyard, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania will be open press.
Later, the President will return to the White House from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. The departure from Philadelphia International Airport, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania and the arrival to Joint Base Andrews will be covered by the out-of-town pool. The departure from Joint Base Andrews and arrival to the South Grounds will be covered by the in-town travel pool.
In-Town Pool Wires: AP, Reuters, Bloomberg Wire Photos: AP, Reuters, AFP, NYT TV Corr & Crew: FOX Print: The Grio Radio: ABC
Out-of-Town Pool Wires: AP, Reuters, Bloomberg Wire Photos: AP, Reuters, AFP, NYT TV Corr & Crew: FOX Print: Politico Radio: iHeartMedia
EDT    9:00 AM THE PRESIDENT receives the Presidential Daily Briefing   Closed Press
9:35 AM Out-of-Town Pool Call Time  Joint Base Andrews Overhang
9:45 AM In-Town Pool Call Time
10:20 AM THE PRESIDENT departs the White House en route to Joint Base Andrews South Grounds  In-Town Travel Pool (Gather 10:05 AM – Palm Room Doors)
10:50 AM THE PRESIDENT departs Joint Base Andrews en route to Philadelphia, Pennsylvania Joint Base Andrews Out-of-Town Pool
11:35 AM THE PRESIDENT arrives in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania   Philadelphia International Airport, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania Open Press
12:05 PM THE PRESIDENT participates in a tour of Philly Shipyard  Philly Shipyard, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania Out-of-Town Pool
1:00 PM THE PRESIDENT discusses how his Bidenomics agenda is growing the economy from the middle out and the bottom up  Philly Shipyard, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania Open Press
2:15 PM THE PRESIDENT departs Philadelphia, Pennsylvania en route to Joint Base Andrews  Philadelphia International Airport, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania  Out-of-Town Pool
3:10 PM THE PRESIDENT departs Joint Base Andrews en route to the White House  Joint Base Andrews  In-Town Travel Pool
3:30 PM THE PRESIDENT arrives at the White House  South Grounds  In-Town Travel Pool
Briefing Schedule
Principal Deputy Press Secretary Olivia Dalton will gaggle aboard Air Force One en route to Phildelphia, Pennsylvania


July 20, 2023 11:17

Out of Town Pool #2: Biden boarded
Biden got on AF1 at 11:10. Said hi to the greeter, did not wave to press as he boarded. Taking off shortly for the quick trip to Philly.
Reminder that Olivia Dalton will be gaggling on the plane. Audio will be livestreamed on the WH YouTube.
The White House sent the below:
Greeter: Colonel Paul Pawluk, Vice Commander, 89th Airlift Wing
Traveling with Biden:
Rep. Joe Courtney (CT-02) Rep. Donald Norcross (NJ-01) Rep. Brendan Boyle (PA-02)  Rep. Madeleine Dean (PA-04)  Rep. Mary Gay Scanlon (PA-05)  Rep. Chrissy Houlahan (PA-06)  Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff Natalie Quillian, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations Ali Zaidi, Assistant to the President & National Climate Advisor Ben LaBolt, Assistant to the President & Director of Communications Stefanie Feldman, Assistant to the President & Staff Secretary Christian Tom, Assistant to the President & Director of Digital Strategy Celeste Drake, Deputy Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of the National Economic Council Olivia Dalton, Deputy Assistant to the President & Principal Deputy Press Secretary Marc Gustafson, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for the White House Situation Room Travis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director Sheila Grant, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Presidential Speechwriter Alana Mounce, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of the Office of Political Strategy & Outreach Justin Oswald, Special Assistant to the President & House Legislative Affairs Liason 


July 20, 2023 11:51

Out of Town Pool #3: Landed
Hi!
We landed in Philly at 11:48 after a very bumpy AF1 ride. Olivia came back and gsggled for about 8 minutes before we landed. No real news. 


July 20, 2023 12:15

Out of town pool #4 — Rolling
Biden deplaned just before noon from the front of the plane. The group of lawmakers came with him.
He hugged Philly Mayor Jim Kenney before walking over to a small group of families -- secret service and White House office military families and friends in Philly. He shook hands, hugged and spoke to them for a few minutes before jumping back into the motorcade. A little girl gave the president a piece of paper that looked like a drawing from our vantage point. He gave it to a staffer. The president also was given a hat Andy put it on his head.
The president did not answer a shouted question, though it's possible he didn't hear it.
We started rolling around 12:10. The ride is about 10 minutes. 


July 20, 2023 12:27

Out of Town Pool #5 — Arrived at shipyard
We arrived on location to the Philly shipyard facility around 12:20.
Info from the White House
Tour Participants Rep. Mary Gay Scanlon (PA-05) Mayor Jim Kenney, Philadelphia, PA Steinar Nerbovik, CEO, Philadelphia Shipyard, Inc. (PSI) Lasse Johannes Petterson, CEO, Great Lakes Dredge and Dock (GLDD) Jimmy Hart, President, Metal Trades Department, AFL-CIO Don King, Plasma Operator Vern Smith, Plasma Operator
Tour Attendees Megan Heileman, Manager, PSI Apprentice Program Madeline "Maddy" Ballard, Apprentice Lisa Brown, Apprentice Alexander Day, Apprentice Roscoe Ezell, Apprentice Ismael Ferrera-Jimenez, Apprentice Malik King, Apprentice Anthony Rivera, Apprentice Francisco Rivera, Apprentice Emily Andrewson, Apprentice Welder, Boilermaker Local 19 


July 20, 2023 12:44

Out of town pool #6 — Tour
Biden was greeted by and walked with the head of the apprenticeship program. Biden walked in between two women who were wearing white hard hats. The president had on his aviators and took them off when talking face to face.
The president shook hands with a group of apprentices. He was also greeted by leadership next to a mock-up of the ship they are building. One of men thanked the president and said he's able to build because of Biden policies.
Couldn't hear much of what the president was saying but he did quip that "wind doesn't cause cancer." The men laughed.
The pool was ushered while the president was still chatting when we were led off to the location where the president will be making remarks.
Remarks will be in about 30 minutes. The president is doing a photo line with:
Rep. Joe Courtney (CT-02) Rep. Donald Norcross (NJ-01) Rep. Brendan Boyle (PA-02)  Rep. Madeleine Dean (PA-04)  Rep. Mary Gay Scanlon (PA-05)  Rep. Chrissy Houlahan (PA-06)  Mayor Jim Kenney, Philadelphia, PA State Senator Sharif Street (PA-03) State Representative Regina Young (PA-185) 


July 20, 2023 13:06

Out of town pool #7 — 2 minute warning for Biden
POTUS will take stage in under two 


July 20, 2023 13:35

Out of town pool #8 - Program over
Biden spoke for more than 20 minutes. Event was live-streamed. In attendance are labor union members, apprentices, shipyard workers, company leaders, and members of Congress.
Most notable news wise was him knocking republicans who oppose Biden policies but tout the benefits to their states and districts. He also connected Bidenomics to clean energy and climate policies.
The president is currently doing his favorite activity: shaking hands with the crowd.
Press is holding for next moves. 


July 20, 2023 14:13

Out of town Pool #9 — back to af1
After shaking hands the president walked behind the setup and gave ice cream sandwiches to them. He also ate one and spoke to them for a bit before pool was ushered out to the motorcade where we waited.
Pulled off at 2:05 to af1. No greeters per aide. 


July 20, 2023 14:19

Out of town Pool #10– taking off shortly
Got to Philadelphia International around 2:15 after a pretty uneventful ten minute ride. POTUS was on already on plane when pool buses arrived. We're taking off shortly.
Traveling with the President aboard Air Force One en route to Joint Base Andrews:
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff Natalie Quillian, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations Ali Zaidi, Assistant to the President & National Climate Advisor Ben LaBolt, Assistant to the President & Director of Communications Stefanie Feldman, Assistant to the President & Staff Secretary Christian Tom, Assistant to the President & Director of Digital Strategy Celeste Drake, Deputy Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of the National Economic Council Olivia Dalton, Deputy Assistant to the President & Principal Deputy Press Secretary Marc Gustafson, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for the White House Situation Room Travis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director Sheila Grant, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Presidential Speechwriter Alana Mounce, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of the Office of Political Strategy & Outreach Justin Oswald, Special Assistant to the President & House Legislative Affairs Liason 



  