
    "For weeks, President Obama has been spreading falsehoods and distortions about Governor Romney's record of job creation — and now we know why. President Obama's policies have encouraged American jobs to move overseas and he's sent taxpayer dollars to foreign-owned companies. Sometimes the truth hurts, and it's clear the President's failed economic policies are hurting American workers." — Andrea Saul, Romney Campaign Spokesperson
President Obama's Campaign Distortions Have Been Debunked By Nonpartisan Fact Checkers As "Misleading, Unfair And Untrue":
FactCheck.org: "We Found No Evidence To Support The Claim That Romney — While He Was Still Running Bain Capital — Shipped American Jobs Overseas." "But after reviewing numerous corporate filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, contemporary news accounts, company histories and press releases, and the evidence offered by both the Obama and Romney campaigns, we found no evidence to support the claim that Romney — while he was still running Bain Capital — shipped American jobs overseas." (Robert Farley and Eugene Kiely, "Obama's 'Outsourcer' Overreach," FactCheck.org, 6/29/12)


    FactCheck.org: "The Post Story Did Not Reveal, To Use The Obama Campaign's Term, That Romney Relocated U.S. Jobs To Foreign Countries." (Robert Farley and Eugene Kiely, "Obama's 'Outsourcer' Overreach," FactCheck.org, 6/29/12)
  

The Washington Post: "There Is Little In The Post Article That Backs Up The Obama Campaign's Spin." "Yet the campaign clearly seized on this report because their interpretation fit with a long-term "outsourcing" attack they have waged against Romney. One of their outsourcing ads before the article ran, in fact, earned Four Pinocchios. These new ads would not fare much better; there is little in the Post article that backs up the Obama campaign's spin." (Glenn Kessler, "Obama's New Attacks On Romney And Outsourcing," The Washington Post, 7/2/12)
FactCheck.org: "Obama Campaign's Recent Ads Thus Mislead When They Point To Investments Made By Bain" After Mitt Romney Left Bain. "And after reviewing evidence cited by the Obama campaign, we reaffirm our conclusion that Romney left the helm of Bain Capital when he took a leave of absence in 1999 to run the Salt Lake City Organizing Committee for the 2002 Winter Olympics — as he has said repeatedly — and never returned to active management. The Obama campaign's recent ads thus mislead when they point to investments made by Bain, as well as management decisions made by companies in which Bain invested, after that time." (Brooks Jackson and Robert Farley, with Eugene Kiely, "FactCheck To Obama Camp: Your Complaint is All Wet," FactCheck.org, 7/2/12)
The Washington Post: "On Just About Every Level, This Ad Is Misleading, Unfair And Untrue..." "The Obama campaign fails to make its case. On just about every level, this ad is misleading, unfair and untrue, from the use of 'corporate raider' to its examples of alleged outsourcing. Simply repeating the same debunked claims won't make them any more correct." (Glenn Kessler, "4 Pinocchios For Obama's Newest Anti-Romney Ad," The Washington Post, 6/21/12)
Why Has President Obama Resorted To Spreading Falsehoods? His Own Policies Have Driven American Jobs Overseas:
President Obama Has "Repeatedly Failed" To "Protect American Jobs From Being Moved Overseas." "While White House officials say they have been waiting on Congress to act, Obama's critics, primarily on the political left, say he has repeatedly failed in other ways to protect American jobs from being moved overseas." (Tom Hamburger, et al, "Obama's Record On Outsourcing Draws Criticism From The Left," The Washington Post, 7/9/12)
"Large American Companies In 2010 Barely Added Any Workers In The United States, Increasing Their Numbers By 0.1 Percent, While They Expanded Their Foreign Workforce By 1.5 Percent." "According to a study by the U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis, large American companies in 2010 barely added any workers in the United States, increasing their numbers by 0.1 percent, while they expanded their foreign workforce by 1.5 percent." (Tom Hamburger, et al, "Obama's Record On Outsourcing Draws Criticism From The Left," The Washington Post, 7/9/12)
President Obama Has Failed To Label China A Currency Manipulator — A Policy That Would Help "Protect American Industries." "But Obama's critics say the most important step the president could take — but hasn't — is to declare China a 'currency manipulator,' which could ultimately allow the U.S. government to erect tariffs to protect American industries." (Tom Hamburger, et al, "Obama's Record On Outsourcing Draws Criticism From The Left," The Washington Post, 7/9/12)


    China's Currency Manipulation "Makes It More Attractive For Companies To Hire Workers" In China Instead Of The United States. "Many economists say that China manipulates foreign exchange markets to keep the value of its currency, the renminbi, lower than it would be if freely traded — a practice that makes it more attractive for companies to hire workers there rather than employ them in the United States. Romney says he would declare a China a currency manipulator on his first day in office." (Tom Hamburger, et al, "Obama's Record On Outsourcing Draws Criticism From The Left," The Washington Post, 7/9/12)
  

President Obama Spent Millions Of Taxpayer Dollars "To Develop A Domestic Clean-Energy Industry," Which "Landed In The Hands Of Foreign Businesses." "According to some critics, a galling example of the Obama administration fostering overseas work came as part the 2009 stimulus program. They point to millions of dollars meant to develop a domestic clean-energy industry that instead landed in the hands of foreign businesses." (Tom Hamburger, et al, "Obama's Record On Outsourcing Draws Criticism From The Left," The Washington Post, 7/9/12)
"An April 2010 Study By The Energy Department Found That 60 Percent Of The 40 Largest Wind Farms Then Financed By The Stimulus Relied On Foreign Manufacturers For Their Central Components, Including Turbines." (Tom Hamburger, et al, "Obama's Record On Outsourcing Draws Criticism From The Left," The Washington Post, 7/9/12)
Former Obama Economic Adviser Diana Farrell "Promoted The Benefits Of Offshoring." "Diana Farrell, who was Obama's deputy economic policy adviser for two years, promoted the benefits of offshoring while she worked at the McKinsey Global Research Institute. Farrell was the primary author of a 2003 report called 'Offshoring: Is it a Win-Win Game?,' which concluded that the benefits to the United States of offshoring exceed the costs." (Tom Hamburger, et al, "Obama's Record On Outsourcing Draws Criticism From The Left," The Washington Post, 7/9/12)
  