
    Campaign saw surge in support following Booker's standout performance in the first debate
88 percent of donors in Q2 were first-time donors to the campaign; Cory 2020 tripled total number of donors in Q2
Newark, NJ — Cory 2020 raised more than $4.5 million in the three months from April to June, and will report nearly $5.4 million cash on hand on the second quarter campaign finance report to be filed with the Federal Election Commission today.
The second fundraising quarter saw an influx of new, grassroots donors to Cory 2020. The campaign added 72,000 new donors in the three months from April to June, tripling the number of unique donors to the campaign. In addition, 88 percent of donors in this quarter were first-time donors to Cory. And the average online donation to Cory 2020 in the second quarter was $15.11.
As a result, the campaign is rapidly closing in on 130,000 total donors -- one of the qualification thresholds for the September DNC debate. Booker is the sixth candidate to have already met the polling qualification threshold.
Furthermore, the Q2 report includes only four days following Cory Booker's standout debate performance, after which the campaign witnessed a surge in contributions and an influx of support. The days following the debate were the largest online fundraising days for Cory 2020 since the day Cory launched his presidential campaign, and Cory 2020 raised $1 million in the final week of the quarter thanks to the post-debate influx. Fully one-fourth of all Cory 2020 donors became donors during the last two weeks of June.
"In February, we set out to build a grassroots campaign fueled by small donations. We're proud of the tremendous progress we've made towards that goal and are happy that we have the resources we need to continue investing in our growing organizing effort. Presidential primaries are won on the ground, in the early states. And we're in a position to be successful," said Addisu Demissie, Cory 2020 campaign manager. 
Since the debate, Cory 2020 has continued to build its ground game in the early states, announcing the hiring of 19 organizing staff in South Carolina and Nevada.
Additionally, the campaign recently opened two field offices -- one in Orangeburg, South Carolina, and the other in Portsmouth, New Hampshire.
  