
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate three individuals to serve in his Administration:
The President intends to nominate William J. Burns, of the District of Columbia, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Russian Federation. A career member of the Senior Foreign Service, Mr. Burns recently served as Assistant Secretary of State for Near Eastern Affairs at the Department of State. He previously served as U.S. Ambassador to the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan. Earlier in his career, Mr. Burns was the Minister-Counselor for Political Affairs at the U.S. Embassy in Moscow. He received his bachelor's degree from LaSalle University. He later received his master's degree and PhD from Oxford University, where he studied as a Marshall Scholar.
The President intends to nominate Donetta Davidson, of Colorado, to be a Member of the Election Assistance Commission, for the remainder of a four-year term expiring December 12, 2007. Ms. Davidson currently serves as Colorado Secretary of State. She previously served as Arapahoe County Clerk and Recorder in Littleton, Colorado. Prior to that, Ms. Davidson was Director of Elections at the Colorado Department of State. She is currently Vice Chair for the National Association for Secretaries of States.
The President intends to nominate Arthur F. Rosenfeld, of Virginia, to be Director of the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service. Mr. Rosenfeld currently serves as General Counsel of the National Labor Relations Board. He previously served as Senior Labor Counsel for the Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions. Earlier in his career, Mr. Rosenfeld worked at the Department of Labor in a variety of capacities, including Counsel for Regulations in the Division of Employee Benefits and Special Assistant to the Solicitor of Labor. He received his bachelor's degree from Muhlenberg College, his master's degree from Lehigh University and his J.D. from Villanova University School of Law.
  