
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate five individuals and appoint five individuals, and designate one individual to serve in his Administration:
The President intends to nominate Clyde Bishop, of Delaware, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of the Marshall Islands. Mr. Bishop, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, currently serves as Consul General in Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic. Prior to this, he served as Diplomat-in-Residence at City College of New York. Earlier in his career, he was the Principal Officer in Naples, Italy. Mr. Bishop received his bachelor's degree from Delaware State University. He later went on to receive his master's degree and PhD from the University of Delaware.
The President intends to nominate Mark R. Dybul, of Florida, to be Coordinator of the United States Government Activities to Combat HIV/AIDS Globally with the rank of Ambassador. Dr. Dybul currently serves as Acting United States Global AIDS Coordinator and Chief Medical Officer at the Department of State. Prior to this, he served as Deputy United States Global AIDS Coordinator and Chief Medical Officer at the Department of State. Earlier in his career, Dr. Dybul served as Assistant Director for Medical Affairs at the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases at the National Institute of Health. Dr. Dybul received his bachelor's degree and his MD from Georgetown University.
The President intends to nominate Peter W. Tredick, of California, to be a Member of the National Mediation Board, for an additional three-year term expiring July 2, 2010. Mr. Tredick currently serves as a Member of Presidential Emergency Board #239. He previously served as Chairman of the Foreign Service Impasse Dispute Panel and a Member of Presidential Emergency Board #238. Earlier in his career, he served as Partner at the Washington based law firm of Hogan & Hartson. Mr. Tredick received his bachelor's degree from Princeton University and his JD from Harvard University.
The President intends to nominate the following individuals to be Members of the Board of Trustees of the Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation:

  Stephen M. Prescott, of Oklahoma, for the remainder of a six-year term expiring April 15, 2011.
Anne Jeannette Udall, of North Carolina, for the remainder of a six-year term expiring October 6, 2010.

The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the National Arctic Research Commission:

  Louis Mead Treadwell, II, of Alaska (Academic Representative), and upon appointment designate Chairman, for the remainder of a four-year term expiring February 26, 2009.
Vera K. Metcalf, of Alaska (Indigenous Representative), for the remainder of a four-year term expiring February 26, 2009.
Charles J. Vorosmarty of New Hampshire, (Academic Representative), for the remainder of a four-year term expiring February 26, 2008.

The President intends to appoint Timothy Pawlenty, of Minnesota, to be a Member of the National Infrastructure Advisory Council.
The President intends to appoint Sidney R. Unobskey, of Maine, to be an Alternate Member of the Roosevelt Campobello International Park Commission.
  