
    Memorandum for the Heads of Departments and Agencies
Women represent more than half of the population of this country, but still do not enjoy the specific protection of the United States Constitution. They continue to face discrimination and unequal treatment in many spheres of human activity.
I have made clear before that ratification of the Equal Rights Amendment is and will remain a priority with this Administration. In addition, I am determined that every resource of the Federal government be applied to eliminating discrimination and inequality based on sex.
This Administration has made important gains, particularly in increasing the participation of women in Federal government. However, I am convinced of the need to increase our effort to achieve equal treatment for women throughout the Nation.
In response to this need, I have asked my Assistant, Midge Costanza, to focus her efforts on women's issues with particular emphasis on the Equal Rights Amendment and implementation of the International Women's Year Plan of Action. As my Assistant she will be expected to:
—participate in the development of all domestic policy decisions of this Administration which affect women;
—assure that I am fully advised of the impact on women of policy decisions, legislation and Federal programs;
—coordinate the Interdepartmental Task Force on women, established by Section 6 of Executive Order 12050;
—provide liaison and support for the National Advisory Committee for Women established by Executive Order 12050;
—monitor and provide frequent and regular reports to me on our progress in eliminating unequal treatment of women.
I am further directing that the head of each department and agency take the following actions:
—make the most of public appearance opportunities to demonstrate the Administration's commitment to the Equal Rights Amendment;
—include in public speeches, where appropriate, language emphasizing the importance of the Equal Rights Amendment and assure that similar language is included in the speeches made by officials of their agency or department;
—review the Federal women's program in their agency or department to determine how it can be strengthened and provide suggestions to Ms. Costanza for my consideration;
—designate a policy level representative from their agency or department who will serve on the Interdepartmental Task Force;
—provide professional and clerical staff support for the agency or department's representative on the Interdepartmental Task Force.
Ms. Costanza will meet regularly with department and agency heads, their staffs, and representatives of women's interests to assure full and immediate implementation of this directive.
JIMMY CARTER
  