
    WASHINGTON, DC – Today, President Barack Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals for key administration posts:

Philip D. Murphy, Ambassador to the Federal Republic of Germany
Richard A. Serino, Deputy Administrator, Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security 
Dr. Marcia K. McNutt, Director of the United States Geological Survey and Science Advisor to the Secretary of the Interior

President Obama said, "I am grateful that these three talented individuals have decided to join my administration at a critical time for our nation, and I look forward to working with them in the months and years ahead."
President Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals today:
Philip D. Murphy, Nominee for Ambassador to the Federal Republic of Germany
Philip D. Murphy served as the head of Goldman Sachs's Frankfurt, Germany office from 1993-97. During that period, he had oversight responsibility for Goldman Sachs's activities in the German region, which principally included all of Germany, Switzerland and Austria, and the then-emerging nations of Central Europe. In all, Mr. Murphy spent 23 years at Goldman Sachs and held such high level positions as President of Goldman Sachs (Asia) LLC, Co-Head of Goldman Sachs's Investment Management Division, member of the firm's Management Committee and head of Private Wealth Management. He became a Senior Director of the firm in 2003, a position he held until his retirement in 2006. After leaving Goldman Sachs, Mr. Murphy served from 2006-09 as the National Finance Chair of the Democratic National Committee. Since leaving the DNC earlier this year, he has been a principal of Murphy Endeavors, LLC. He has devoted substantial time over the years to civic, community and philanthropic affairs. He co-chaired a task force of the Center for American Progress and The Institute for America's Future on public education for the 21st century; chaired a benefits review task force appointed by New Jersey Governor Richard Codey on public sector employee benefits; served on boards and/or committees of the NAACP, The Goldman Sachs Foundation, The Wharton School's Graduate Executive and Asian Advisory Boards, 180 Turning Lives Around and The U.S. Soccer Foundation. Mr. Murphy graduated from Harvard University with an A.B. in Economics and received an M.B.A. from The Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania.
Richard A. Serino, Nominee for Deputy Administrator, Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security 
Richard Serino has had an impressive career in emergency management and emergency medical services. Currently, he is the Chief of Emergency Medical Services and the Assistant Director for the Boston Public Health Commission. Previously, he has served as the Superintendent-in-Chief and a Superintendent for Field Operations for Boston Emergency Medical Services having rose through the ranks over 35 years. He has also served as a guest lecturer at Harvard and Boston University on homeland security and emergency preparedness issues and as a national faculty member for the Domestic Preparedness Program at the U.S. Department of Defense. He has also participated in Senior Leadership programs in national preparedness and homeland defense at Harvard's Kennedy School of Government and at the Naval Postgraduate School, Center for Homeland Defense and Security.
Dr. Marcia K. McNutt, Nominee for Director of the United States Geological Survey and Science Advisor to the Secretary of the Interior
Dr. Marcia McNutt studied geophysics at Scripps Institution of Oceanography in La Jolla, California and earned her PhD there in Earth Sciences in 1978. She spent 3 years with the USGS in California working on earthquake prediction. She joined the faculty at MIT in 1982 where she was appointed the Griswold Professor of Geophysics and served as Director of the Joint Program in Oceanography & Applied Ocean Science & Engineering, a joint program offered by both MIT & the Woods Hole Oceanography Institution. Marcia has participated in 15 major oceanographic expeditions and served as chief scientist on more than half of those voyages. She has published 90 peer-reviewed scientific articles and also chaired the President's Panel on Ocean Exploration convened by President Clinton to examine the possibility of initiating a major US program in exploring the oceans. She is a fellow for the American Geophysical Union, the Geological Society of America, the American Association for the Advancement of Science and the International Association of Geodesy. She is a member of the National Academy of Sciences, the American Philosophical Society and the American Academy of Arts & Sciences and serves on numerous evaluation and advisory boards for institutions such as the Monterey Bay Aquarium, Stanford University, Harvard University and Science Magazine.
  