
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Kevin Madden (857) 288-6390
Boston, MA - Today, Romney for President launched its newest television ad, "Ocean." In the ad, Governor Romney discusses his belief that we need to look at the culture that surrounds America's children and clean up "the ocean in which our children now swim." Governor Romney believes that our country's strength is dependent upon the strength of the American family and the promise of our children.
The ad will begin airing today in Iowa, New Hampshire and South Carolina. Scripts and viewing links are below.
Script For "Ocean" (TV:60):
GOVERNOR MITT ROMNEY: "I'm deeply troubled about the culture that surrounds our kids today.
"Following the Columbine shootings, Peggy Noonan described our world as 'the ocean in which our children now swim.'
"She described a cesspool of violence, and sex, and drugs, and indolence, and perversions.
"She said that the boys who did the shooting had 'inhaled too deeply in the oceans in which they swam.'
"I'd like to see us clean up the water in which our kids are swimming.
"I'd like to keep pornography from coming up on their computers.
"I'd like to keep drugs off the streets.
"I'd like to see less violence and sex on TV and in video games and in movies.
"And if we get serious about this, we can actually do a great deal to clean up the water in which our kids and our grandkids are swimming.
"I'm Mitt Romney and I approve this message."
To view "Ocean," please see: http://mitt-tv.mittromney.com/?showid=234880
AD FACTS: Script For "Ocean" (TV:60 ):
GOVERNOR ROMNEY: "I'm deeply troubled about the culture that surrounds our kids today. Following the Columbine shootings, Peggy Noonan described our world as 'the ocean in which our children now swim.'"
- Governor Romney: "I'm deeply troubled about the culture that surrounds our kids today. Following the Columbine shootings, Peggy Noonan described our world as 'the ocean in which our children now swim.'" (Governor Mitt Romney, Remarks At The Frontiers Of Freedom Ronald Reagan Gala, Washington, D.C., 4/18/07)
- Author Peggy Noonan: "This is the ocean in which our children swim. This is the sound of our culture. It comes from all parts of our culture and reaches all parts of our culture, and all the people in it, which is everybody. " (Peggy Noonan, Op-Ed, "The Culture Of Death," The Wall Street Journal, 4/22/99)
GOVERNOR ROMNEY: "She described a cesspool of violence, and sex, and drugs, and indolence, and perversions. She said that the boys who did the shooting had 'inhaled too deeply in the oceans in which they swam.'"
- Governor Romney: "She described a cesspool of violence, and sex, and drugs, and indolence, and perversions. She said that the boys who did the shooting had 'inhaled too deeply in the oceans in which they swam.'" (Governor Mitt Romney, Remarks At The Frontiers Of Freedom Ronald Reagan Gala, Washington, D.C., 4/18/07)
- Author Peggy Noonan: "The boys who did the killing, the famous Trench Coat Mafia, inhaled too deep the ocean in which they swam." (Peggy Noonan, Op-Ed, "The Culture Of Death," The Wall Street Journal, 4/22/99)
GOVERNOR ROMNEY: "I'd like to see us clean up the water in which our kids are swimming. I'd like to keep pornography from coming up on their computers. I'd like to keep drugs off the streets. I'd like to see less violence and sex on TV and in video games and in movies. And if we get serious about this, we can actually do a great deal to clean up the water in which our kids and our grandkids are swimming."
- Governor Romney: "I'd like to see us clean up the water in which our kids are swimming. I'd like to keep pornography from coming up on their computers. I'd like to keep drugs off the streets. I'd like to see less violence and sex on TV and in video games and in movies. And if we get serious about this, we can actually do a great deal to clean up the water in which our kids and our grandkids are swimming." (Governor Mitt Romney, Remarks At The Frontiers Of Freedom Ronald Reagan Gala, Washington, D.C., 4/18/07)
GOVERNOR ROMNEY: "I'm Mitt Romney and I approve this message."
To view "Ocean," please see: http://mitt-tv.mittromney.com/?showid=234880
  