
    The Rudy Giuliani Presidential Committee today announced U.S. Representatives Jerry Weller and Judy Biggert endorsed Mayor Giuliani for President of the United States. Both Illinois U.S. Representatives join State Representative Tom Cross, State House Republican Leader and Rudy's Illinois State Chairman, in supporting the Mayor.
"As Mayor of New York, Rudy proved he is the strong leader with the executive experience we need to lead our nation," said Congressman Weller, who serves on the House Ways and Means Committee. "I share Rudy's commitment to fiscal discipline and to making America energy independent. Rudy is the one candidate that can accomplish these goals."
"Rudy showed the whole country that he can lead during difficult times. It will be an honor to campaign for him in Illinois and communicate his optimistic vision for America to voters," said Congresswoman Biggert.
Weller and Biggert join a growing list of 16 other U.S. Representatives supporting Mayor Giuliani.
Congressman Jerry Weller, Illinois 11th District
Congressman Weller was first elected to Congress in 1994 and is now serving in his seventh term. He currently serves on the House Ways & Means Committee. Weller led the successful effort to eliminate the Marriage Tax Penalty and to reform business depreciation schedules. He holds a long-term commitment to reducing America's dependence on foreign oil. Weller served as an aide to former U.S. Rep. Tom Corcoran (R-IL) and as an aide to U.S. Secretary of Agriculture John Block in the Reagan Administration. He served three terms in the Illinois General Assembly before being elected to serve in Washington, D.C.
Congresswoman Judy Biggert, Illinois 13th District
Congresswoman Biggert was first elected to Congress in 1998 and is now serving her fifth term. An attorney and former school board president, she served three terms in the Illinois House of Representatives and was named Assistant Republican Leader after serving just one term. She is the ranking member on the House Financial Services Subcommittee on Housing and Community Opportunity, and serves on the Education & Labor and Science & Technology Committees. She is Co-Chair of the Congressional Missing and Exploited Children's Caucus. Biggert authored legislation, now law, to increase America's investment in basic research and alternative energy sources; increase funding for math and science teachers; and guarantee that homeless children have access to education.
  