
    "Every day, we are lifting our forgotten Americans off the sidelines, out of the margins, and back into the workforce." – President Donald J. Trump 
PERKINS CTE REAUTHORIZATION: President Donald J. Trump's Administration worked to help secure reauthorization for the Carl D. Perkins Career and Technical Education Act (Perkins CTE).

Perkins CTE has been one of the Administration's top legislative priorities.

Last reauthorized in 2006, Perkins CTE has been stalled for years due to policy disagreements. 
Reauthorizing Perkins CTE was one of the top workforce development policies in President Trump's infrastructure plan, which was sent to Congress in February 2018. 


Working hand-in-hand with the Administration, Congress passed and the President signed into law the reauthorization for Perkins CTE.

Advisor to the President Ivanka Trump together with Secretary of Education Betsy DeVos and other Administration officials worked closely with Congress to help advance reauthorization. 



PROMOTING CAREER AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION: CTE programs help provide students with the skills they need to succeed in the economy of today and tomorrow.

Perkins CTE programs authorize more than $1 billion for States each year to fund vocational and career-focused education programs. 
These programs will benefit secondary and post-secondary students across America who utilize CTE programs to gain the skills and knowledge needed for rewarding careers.

Perkins CTE reauthorization will benefit more than 11 million students. 



ACCOMPLISHING AN ADMINISTRATION PRIORITY: President Trump has made workforce development a top priority of his Administration, and has taken action to follow through on this priority.

President Trump has taken a range of actions to better prepare our Nation's workforce. 
Recently, President Trump signed an Executive Order "Establishing the President's National Council for the American Worker."

The new Council will raise awareness of the skills gap, help expand apprenticeships, and encourage investment in worker education. 
A number of major companies attended the signing and pledged to offer millions of new education and job-training opportunities for American workers. 


In February 2018, President Trump released an infrastructure plan that would reform and modernize Federal education and workforce development programs. 
In June 2017, President Trump signed an Executive Order to expand apprenticeships and improve job-training programs by:

Using available Department of Labor funding to promote apprenticeships and work-based learning. 
Supporting efforts by educational institutions to incorporate apprenticeship programs into their curricula and offer industry-recognized credentials. 
Establishing a task force with leaders from trade and industry groups, companies, educational institutions, government, non-profit organizations, and unions. 



  