
    Dear Mr. Speaker: (Dear Mr. Chairman:)
In accordance with the provisions of Public Law 95-384, I am submitting the following report on progress made during the past 60 days toward conclusion of a negotiated solution of the Cyprus problem.
The intercommunal talks remain recessed despite persistent efforts by UN Secretary General Waldheim and his staff to bring the two parties back to the conference table. Ambassador Hugo Cobbi, the new Special Representative of the Secretary General, arrived in Cyprus in May and immediately began working with the two sides in an effort to overcome the remaining difficulties. As the UN efforts intensified, the Secretary General also dispatched Under Secretary General Perez de Cuellar to Cyprus. Mr. Perez de Cuellar presented the two parties with a compromise formula under which they might resume the intercommunal talks. Early on June 7, the Greek Cypriots informed the Under Secretary General that they would accept the proposal. Later that day, the Turkish Cypriots told Mr. Perez de Cuellar that they had given the UN formula serious consideration but felt unable to accept it.
It is encouraging to note, however, that the Perez de Cuellar mission succeeded in narrowing somewhat the gap between the positions of the two parties, and Ambassador Cobbi is continuing to consult with the two sides in an attempt to reach a compromise. The Secretary General's June 13 statement to the Security Council on Mr. Perez de Cuellar's mission is attached.
I am pleased to report that the United Nations Security Council voted on June 13 to extend the mandate of the UN Peacekeeping Forces in Cyprus (UNFICYP) for another six months. The calm that prevails on the island today is due to the professionalism and dedication of the men of UNFICYP. Without the stability provided by the peacekeeping troops, there would be little hope for eventually achieving a negotiated Cyprus settlement. (The Secretary General's report to the Security Council on UNFICYP is also attached.)
Secretary of State Muskie recently returned from Ankara where he discussed the Cyprus problem with Turkish Prime Minister Demirel. In a productive exchange of views, Secretary Muskie stressed the continuing interest of the United States in seeing the Cyprus dispute resolved. During his meeting with the Turkish Prime Minister as well as in his discussions with Greek Foreign Minister Mitsotakis, the Secretary of State reaffirmed our faith in Secretary General Waldheim's efforts as the best hope for achieving an early resumption of the intercommunal talks.
Other members of the Executive Branch have also been active in support of the Secretary General's efforts. On June 23, for example, while in Athens, Under Secretary of State Nimetz took the opportunity offered by the presence of Cyprus Foreign Minister Rolandis to arrange an informal but useful meeting on the Cyprus problem.
The United States Government will continue to use every opportunity to emphasize to all concerned parties that cooperation with the efforts of UN Secretary General Waldheim offers the best chance for a resumption of the intercommunal talks. The Secretary General has pledged to persevere in his mission, and the two parties on Cyprus have renewed their commitment to reach a negotiated settlement. The roots of the Cyprus problem are deep, and a solution will not easily be found. I am convinced, however, that if the two communities on Cyprus are seriously committed to resolve their differences, a settlement will eventually be achieved. I urge both sides to return to the negotiating table and begin the process of searching for a just and lasting solution that will meet the needs of all people of Cyprus.
Sincerely,
JIMMY CARTER
  