
    ST. LOUIS, MO -- U.S. Senator John McCain's presidential campaign today announced its Missouri Small Business Leaders for McCain leadership. Small business owners from the Show-Me State endorsed John McCain's economic plan, joining business leaders across the country who have praised John McCain's jobs-first plan to grow the economy as president.
"John McCain will reform government, achieve energy security, and ensure that health care and a quality education are affordable and available to all Americans. He understands that Missourians are hurting due to tough economic times, and has put forth a comprehensive approach to take on America's challenges head on," said Colonel Jack Jackson, chairman of John McCain's Missouri campaign. "Small businesses are the engine that keeps our economy growing, and the support of so many small business leaders is a telling sign that McCain is taking the right approach to fixing our economy."
Kirk Mathews of Inpatient Management added, "Even in the face of economic challenges, small businesses create jobs. We need policies that will fuel expansion and job growth, not restrict it. John McCain's plans for making health insurance affordable and reducing taxes are good for small business. In this election, the choice is clear that John McCain is the right choice for small business and job creation."
Today in Denver, CO, John McCain set the stage for the week by announcing his jobs-first economic plan in Colorado, kicking off five days of economic themed activity in critical battleground states. Later this week John McCain will be visiting Pennsylvania, Ohio, Michigan, Minnesota and Wisconsin to highlight his plans to grow our economy, and to contrast it Barack Obama's votes to raise taxes on families making as little as $32,000 a year.
SMALL BUSINESS LEADERS FOR MCCAIN CHAIRS  Van Allen, Timeline Recruiting
Gordon Alt, Music Store owner
Shawn Archambault, Archie Communications
Joe Balsoratti, Software To Go
Paul Birner, Amazing Siding
Becky Bodenstab, Priority Financial
Christie Boen, Chiropractor
Linda Boyd-Shell, Boyd-Shell Realty
Patty Boyers, Boycom Cable Vision
Chris Carnahan, Boone Valley Forest Product
Gonzalo Corvera, Corvera Abatement
Steve Cusamano, Cusamano Vision Center
Russ Duker, Master Tech Inc
David Fernandez, JDC
Mike Gaffney, Skyline Aeronautics
Bill Glaser, Legacy Wealth Advisors
Al Gonzalez, Hispanic Chamber of St. Louis
Cord Harper, Author
Jim Henderson, Dynamic Sales
Laura Herring, Impact Group
Don Hockenbury, Garlich Printing
Ed Horton, Navigation Corp
Charlene Jayamanne, National Marketing
Matthew Kent, Realty MD LLC
Virginia Kirkpatrick, CVK Personnel
Dave Kruse, Revelation Products
Kirk Mathews, Inpatient Management
Judy Meador, Former owner, St. Louis Small Business Monthly
Tom Mendenhal, REMM Ltd
John Morganthor, Aerocharter
Carm Natoli, Natoli Engineering
Terry Orf, Inpatient Management
Janet Poppen, Poppen and Associates CPAs PC
Danette Proctor, D-4 Investments
Anthony Ramirez, Anthony B. Ramirez PC
Dwight Scharnhorst, Photographer/State Rep
Jeanine Stewart, Certified Insurance Consultant?
Kelly Swanson, Port of Kimberling Marina & Campground LLC
Randy Swanson, LRN Enterprises Inc.
Maria Taxman
Bob Thomas, Aerocharter
Seung Lee Walston, Ellisville Cleaners
Eric West, Colonial West Apartments
Kevin Whelan, Pioneer Printing
  