
    Ambassador Dobrynin, Secretary Ingersoll, Administrator Fletcher, ladies and gentlemen:
Obviously, on this occasion it is a very great pleasure to be here this morning and to participate in a small way on this historic occasion. The launch of the Soviet Union Soyuz spacecraft, which we are about to witness--and I hope my remarks conclude before it--marks the beginning of a very epic venture into space.
As has been said, shortly after 3 o'clock this afternoon, America's Apollo spacecraft will be launched from the Kennedy Space Center at Cape Canaveral. And these two voyagers in space will rendezvous historically, 2 days from now and thereafter circle the globe together.
It is my judgment that this joint space mission is a truly historic occasion. In my prelaunch message to the American astronauts and to the Soviet cosmonauts, I told them that they are opening a new era in the exploration of space and the blazing of a brand new trail of international space cooperation. Never before have representatives of two countries lived and worked together in space. They have a wonderful and unique opportunity as a result.
This space mission also demonstrates that the United States and the Soviet Union are prepared to cooperate in a common endeavor of great significance, importance, and complexity.
Since the Apollo-Soyuz project was agreed to 3 years ago, the crews, the scientists, the specialists, the technicians on both sides, of both countries have worked diligently and productively in a spirit of cooperation. And they bring us to where we are today. And they have done it with not only skill but great success.
I am particularly heartened by the example of dedication and cooperation displayed by the cosmonauts and by our own astronauts--Stafford, Brand, and Slayton. They obviously represent the best of capabilities on both sides.
Along with the people throughout the world, I will be following the flight of these partners in exploration on behalf of the American people, and I wish both crews a most successful mission.Thank you very kindly.
[The President spoke at 8:11 a.m. in the West Auditorium at the Department of State prior to viewing the televised launching of the Soyuz spacecraft with A. F. Dobrynin, Soviet Ambassador to the United States, Robert S. Ingersoll, Deputy Secretary of State, and James C. Fletcher, Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.
Following the launching, the President and Ambassador Dobrynin were approached by reporters for their reactions to the event. The President responded as follows:]
It was a wonderful display, and we certainly congratulate the Soviet Union and their cosmonauts on the successful inauguration of this very historic flight. And we wish them as well as our own astronauts the very best on this wonderful expression of cooperation, not only technically but otherwise between our two countries.
  