
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate three individuals to serve in his Administration.
The President intends to nominate Mark M. Boulware, of Texas, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Islamic Republic of Mauritania. Mr. Boulware, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, currently serves as Faculty Advisor at the National War College. Prior to this, he served as Principal Officer at the United States Embassy in Rio de Janeiro. Earlier in his career, he served as Deputy Chief of Mission in San Salvador. Mr. Boulware received his bachelor's degree and master's degree from Midwestern State University.
The President intends to nominate Benjamin Eric Sasse, of Nebraska, to be Assistant Secretary of Health and Human Services (Planning and Evaluation). Dr. Sasse currently serves as Counselor to the Secretary for Policy and Strategic Initiatives at the Department of Health and Human Services. Prior to this, he served as Assistant Professor at the Lyndon B. Johnson School of Public Affairs at the University of Texas at Austin. Earlier in his career, he served as Chief of Staff in the Office of Legal Policy at the Department of Justice. Dr. Sasse received his bachelor's degree from Harvard University, master's degrees from St. John's College and Yale University and PhD from Yale University.
The President intends to nominate Barry L. Wells, of Ohio, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of The Gambia. Mr. Wells, a career member of the Senior Executive Service, currently serves as Director of the Office of Civil Rights and Chief Diversity Officer at the Department of State. Prior to this, he served as Deputy Director of the Foreign Service Institute at the Department of State. Earlier in his career, he served as a Country Director in the Peace Corps in Belize and Jamaica, respectively. Mr. Wells received his bachelor's degree from Youngstown State University and his master's degree from the University of Pittsburgh.
  