
    WASHINGTON – Today, President Barack Obama announced his intent to nominate former Congresswoman Anne Northup as a Commissioner to the Consumer Product Safety Commission.
President Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individual today:
Anne Northup, Nominee for Commissioner, Consumer Product Safety CommissionAnne Meagher Northup served the Third Congressional District of Kentucky in the United States House of Representatives from 1997-2006. Before her tenure in Congress, Northup served in the Kentucky House of Representatives for nine years, from 1987-1996. Soon after taking office in 1997, Northup was appointed to the House Appropriations Committee. She sat on the Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education; Transportation, Treasury, HUD and Independent Agencies; and Military Quality of Life and Veterans Affairs Subcommittees. Congresswoman Northup has been an aggressive advocate for education reform. In March 1998, she founded the House Reading Caucus, a bipartisan caucus that raises awareness about the growing number of children who are failing to learn to read. She introduced legislation commissioning the National Reading Panel, the findings of which were incorporated into the "Reading First Initiative" of the 2001 No Child Left Behind education law. Additionally, Congresswoman Northup was a member of the Congressional Coalition on Adoption and was an instrumental proponent of legislation promoting adoption. As co-chair of the coalition in 2002, Northup traveled to China to work on eliminating the growing bureaucratic obstacles between the United States and China that were threatening to reduce the number of Chinese orphans available to American families for adoption. In 2003, Northup introduced legislation that resulted in extended paperwork deadlines for families adopting children from China who were impacted by delays due to the SARS epidemic. Northup and her husband are the parents of two adopted children. Congresswoman Northup graduated from Saint Mary's College in 1970 with a Bachelor of Arts degree in Economics and Business.
  