
    7 key moments on the 30th anniversary of the Americans with Disabilities Act. 
President Trump is fighting to make America great for all people – and uplifting and caring for Americans with disabilities is a key part of his presidency. On the 30th anniversary of the Americans with Disabilities Act being signed into law, here are seven moments from President Trump that speak to his unwavering commitment to Americans with disabilities.
Last year, President Trump embraced Army Captain Luis Avila, who was severely wounded by a bomb in Afghanistan in 2011.

Last year, President Trump shared a touching moment on stage with the Shalva band, whose members are young adults with varying disabilities.

In April, President Trump hosted Michael Heup of Maryland's Bitty & Beau's Coffee at the White House. The coffee shop employs Americans with disabilities and received a Paycheck Protection Program (PPP) loan, allowing them to continue paying their employees.

Last year, President Trump met with American families in recognition of World Down Syndrome Day.

In 2000, Donald Trump helped the family of an 11-year-old girl named Megan suffering from brittle bone disease, providing her family with a check after seeing her story on Maury and feeling personally touched.

In 2019, President Trump took executive action to "ensure that our wounded warriors are not saddled with mountains of student debt," saving 25,000 disabled veterans an average of $30,000. Prior to this, only about half of permanently disabled veterans were eligible for loan forgiveness due to bureaucratic requirements.

As President, Donald Trump has repeatedly addressed the March for Life and defended the right to life, especially for those with disabilities, including Down syndrome. "Sadly, there remain too many people – both in the United States and throughout the world – that still see Down syndrome as an excuse to ignore or discard human life," President Trump said in 2017. "We should not tolerate any discrimination against them, as all people have inherent dignity."

"I love helping people," Trump has said. From his time as a businessman to his time in the White House, that's how he's lived his life. As President, he implemented inclusive economic policies that led to a record low unemployment rate among Americans with disabilities. He created a historic, government-wide task force focused on expanding employment for Americans with disabilities. The Trump Administration expanded the Veterans-Directed Care program, helping veterans with disabilities stay in their own homes. And during the coronavirus crisis, the Trump Administration awarded funding to address the needs of Americans with disabilities in emergency responses and provided unprecedented support to Centers for Independent Living.
President Trump is working to empower and protect Americans with disabilities, and he always will.
  