
    WASHINGTON, DC – Today, President Barack Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key Administration posts:
•      Mignon L. Clyburn – Commissioner, Federal Communications Commission
•      Stephen Crawford – Governor, Board of Governors of the United States Postal Service
•      John M. Koenig – Ambassador to the Republic of Cyprus, Department of State
The President also announced his intent to appoint the following individual to a key Administration post:
•      Patrick Gaynor – Member, Medal of Valor Review Board
President Obama said, "I am proud to nominate such impressive individuals to these important roles, and I am grateful they have agreed to lend their considerable talents to this Administration. I look forward to working with them in the months and years ahead."
President Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key Administration posts:
Mignon L. Clyburn, Nominee for Commissioner, Federal Communications Commission
Mignon L. Clyburn is a Commissioner on the Federal Communications Commission, having been appointed by President Obama in July 2009. From 1998 to 2009, Ms. Clyburn served as the Representative of South Carolina's sixth district on the Public Service Commission (PSC) of South Carolina. She was sworn in for her first term in July 1998, and was subsequently re-elected in 2002 and 2006. Ms. Clyburn served as Chair of the PSC from July 2002 to June 2004. Prior to her service on the PSC, she was Publisher and General Manager of the Coastal Times from 1984 to 1998. Ms. Clyburn received her B.A. from the University of South Carolina.
Stephen Crawford, Nominee for Governor, Board of Governors of the United States Postal Service
Stephen Crawford is a research professor at the George Washington Institute of Public Policy at George Washington University. From 2009 to 2011, he served as Vice President for Policy & Research at the Corporation for Enterprise Development, and from 2008 to 2009 as Deputy Director of the Metropolitan Policy Program at the Brookings Institution. Previously, Mr. Crawford was the Director of Social, Economic and Workforce Programs at the National Governors Association from 2002 to 2007 and Vice President, Treasurer, and Board Secretary of the National Policy Association from 2000 to 2002. Earlier in his career, he served as Executive Director of the Governors' Workforce Investment Board for the State of Maryland from 1997 to 2000. Mr. Crawford served in the U.S. Army, including as an infantry officer in Vietnam, and he was awarded a Bronze Star. He holds a B.A. from Cornell University, a M.G.A from the Wharton Business School at the University of Pennsylvania, and a Ph.D. from Columbia University.
John M. Koenig, Nominee for Ambassador to the Republic of Cyprus, Department of State
John M. Koenig, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, served as Political Advisor to the Commander of the Allied Joint Force Command in Naples from August 2009 to May 2012. From 2006 to 2009, he served as Charge d'Affaires ad interim and Deputy Chief of Mission at the U.S. Embassy in Berlin. From 2003 to 2006, Mr. Koenig was Deputy Permanent Representative and Deputy Chief of Mission at the U.S. Mission to NATO. From 2000 to 2003, he was Principal Officer at the U.S. Consulate General in Thessaloniki, Greece. Other overseas assignments include posts at the U.S. Embassies in Athens, Nicosia, Jakarta, and Manila. In Washington, he has served in the Bureau of East Asian and Pacific Affairs and the Operations Center. Mr. Koenig received a B.A. from the University of Washington and an M.A. from Johns Hopkins University's School of Advanced International Studies.
President Obama announced his intent to appoint the following individual to a key Administration post:
Patrick Gaynor, Appointee for Member, Medal of Valor Review Board
Patrick Gaynor has been an officer in the Meriden, Connecticut Police Department for 15 years and is currently the Detective Division Commander. His has served in numerous operational areas of the Department including patrol, narcotics, SWAT, training, and professional standards. He is the President of the Connecticut Council of Police Unions, AFSCME Council 15. Before joining the Department, Mr. Gaynor served in the U.S. Marine Corps for eight years and is a veteran of Operation Desert Shield. He has a B.A. in Business Management from Saint Leo University.
  