
    Today, the White House launched Invest.gov, a new website showing the historic public and private sector investments President Biden's Investing in America agenda is bringing to states and territories across America. Invest.gov features an interactive map showing infrastructure projects underway that are funded by President Biden's Bipartisan Infrastructure Law as well as private sector investments mobilized by President Biden's agenda, including the Inflation Reduction Act, the CHIPS and Science Act, the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, and the American Rescue Plan.

President Biden's Investing in America agenda is rebuilding the economy from the middle-out and bottom-up, not top-down. As a result of historic legislation passed by President Biden – including the American Rescue Plan, the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, the CHIPS and Science Act, and the Inflation Reduction Act - President Biden has overseen the strongest jobs recovery in history, is rebuilding our nation's infrastructure, and is bringing manufacturing back to the United States. Since President Biden took office, private companies have announced over $470 billion in private sector manufacturing investments, and over the last 18 months, the Administration has awarded over $220 billion in funding from the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law aimed at repairing roads and bridges, delivering clean water, deploying high-speed internet, and building out clean energy transportation infrastructure. Invest.gov enables Americans in every state and territory across the country to see these investments in their communities.
The website also includes summaries of the impact of President Biden's Investing in America agenda in each state and territory, including jobs created, new businesses started, spotlight infrastructure projects funded, and manufacturing investments made under the Biden presidency. The website will be updated regularly to reflect recent investments, projects, and announcements.
State spotlight:

    
To highlight the impact of President Biden's Investing in America agenda, members of the Administration will be fanning out across the country later this month for a second installment of the Investing in America tour. The tour will coincide with the two-week Congressional recess around the July 4th holiday.
Visit Invest.gov to learn more about the Investing in America agenda and projects in every community across the country.
  