
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate six individuals, appoint twelve individuals, designate one individual, and upon appointment designate one individual to serve in his Administration:
The President intends to nominate William B. Wark, of Maine, to be a Member of the Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board, for a five year term. Mr. Wark currently serves as Executive Vice President for LGH, Incorporated. Prior to this, he served as Project Manager for The Marasco Newton Group. Earlier in his career, he served as Deputy Director for the Technological Hazards Division at the Federal Emergency Management Agency. Mr. Wark has served as a Lieutenant in the United States Navy. He received his bachelor's degree from the University of Maine at Fort Kent and his master's degree at The George Washington University.
The President intends to nominate Robert L. Wilkie, of North Carolina, to be Assistant Secretary of Defense for Legislative Affairs. Mr. Wilkie currently serves as Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary for Legislative Affairs and Acting Assistant Secretary of Defense for Legislative Affairs. Prior to this, he served as Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for the National Security Council. Earlier in his career, he served as Counsel and Advisor on International Security Affairs to Senator Trent Lott. Mr. Wilkie received his bachelor's degree from Wake Forest University and his JD from Loyola University in New Orleans. He went on to receive his LLM from Georgetown University and his master's degree from the United States Army War College.
The President intends to nominate William E. Wright, of Florida, to be a Member of the Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board, for a five year term. Mr. Wright currently serves as Chairman of the Department of Defense Explosives Safety Board. Prior to this, he served as Commander of Explosive Ordnance Disposal Group ONE. Earlier in his career, he served as Head of the Ordnance Branch for the Chief of Naval Operations. He has served as Captain in the United States Navy for 30 years. Mr. Wright received his bachelor's degree and a master's degree from the University of Puget Sound. He went on to receive a second master's degree from the Naval War College.
The President intends to nominate the following individuals to be Members of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for Public Broadcasting:
Warren Bell, of California, for the remainder of a six-year term expiring January 31, 2012
Chris Boskin, of California, for the remainder of a six-year term expiring January 31, 2012
David H. Pryor, of Arkansas, for the remainder of a six-year term expiring January 31, 2008
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the National Infrastructure Advisory Council:
Edmund G. Archuleta, of Texas
David Michael Cote, of Ohio
James B. Nicholson, of Michigan
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation, for the remainder of a four-year term expiring June 10, 2010:
Susan Schanlaber Barnes, of Illinois, and upon appointment designate Vice Chair
Rhonda Bentz, of California, (Public)
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the Helping to Enhance the Livelihood of People (HELP) Around the Globe Commission, for the Life of the Commission:
Benjamin K. Homan, of Arizona
David A. Williams, of Pennsylvania
The President intends to appoint the following individuals:
Jennings David Colbert, of Oklahoma, to be a Member of the Community Development Advisory Board (Native American Tribal Development Representative), for the remainder of a four-year term expiring November 27, 2007
J. French Hill, of Arkansas, to be a Member of the Community Development Advisory Board (Insured Depository Institution Representative), for the remainder of a four-year term expiring October 16, 2007
Farah M. Jimenez, of Pennsylvania, to be a Member of the Community Development Advisory Board (Community Development Representative), for the remainder of a four-year term expiring October 16, 2007
Jack Lund, of New York, to be a Member of the Community Development Advisory Board (Consumer/Public Interest Organization Representative), for the remainder of a four-year term expiring October 16, 2007
L. Raymond Moncrief, of Kentucky, to be a Member of the Community Development Advisory Board (Community Development Financial Institution Representative), for the remainder of a four-year term expiring October 16, 2007
The President intends to designate Michael W. Smith, of Tennessee, to be Vice Chair of the President's Council on Service and Civic Participation.
  