
    Pool Reports by Brian Bennett, Time Magazine 



Sent:
Reports:




June 22, 202213:51

In town pool report #1 - pool gathering
Pool is gathering in the briefing room for Biden's scheduled 2 pm remarks on gas prices in the South Court Auditorium.
It's 90 degrees outside and has started raining hard here on the White House grounds.



June 22, 202214:08

In town pool report #2 - Biden federal gas tax holiday remarks begin
Biden came out at 2:03 pm.
Biden proposes a federal gas tax holiday.
He asks companies to pass the savings - "every penny" on to customers.
Pool and credentialed press are gathered in the South Court Auditorium in the EEOB waiting for Biden. A lectern with the presidential seal is set up on the stage. The set is decorated with image of an on open landscape and an oil pumpjack.
A title behind the lectern "President Joe Biden delivers remarks on reducing gas prices."
Here are a few links where Biden's remarks are being streamed:
https://www.whitehouse.gov/live/
https://m.youtube.com/watch?v=H3Y7VCAmmlI&feature=youtu.be



June 22, 202214:17

In town pool report #3 - Biden quotes on gas tax holiday
Biden quotes:
"What I'm proposing is suspending the federal gas tax without affecting the Highway Trust Fund."
Biden proposed "suspending the 18 cent gas tax, federal gas tax, for the next 90 days."
"To the companies running gas stations and setting those prices at the pump, this is a time of war, global peril, Ukraine, this is not normal times. Bring down the price you are charging at the pump to reflect the price you are paying for the product. Do it now. Do it today. Your customers, the American people, they need relief now."
"Today I'm calling for a federal gas tax holiday"
"Let's remember how we got here. Putin invaded Ukraine. Putin invaded Ukraine with 100,000 forces."
Biden stopped speaking at 2:16 pm. He walked off the stage and did not take questions. One shouted question was "do you have the votes?"



June 22, 202214:36

In town pool report #4 - Energy Secretary Granholm to attend White House press briefing
From the White House Press office: "Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre will be joined by Secretary of Energy Jennifer Granholm today at the press briefing."
The briefing is scheduled for 3 pm.



June 22, 202216:40

In town pool report #5 - lid
The White House called a lid for the night.




  