
    
  Book exposing the 'Washington Cartel' hits stores Tuesday, June 30

HOUSTON, Texas – U.S. Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas, announced today the release of his long-anticipated book, A Time for Truth: Reigniting the Promise of America. The book will hit stores nationwide on Tuesday, June 30. A Time for Truth offers unique insights of the inner workings of Washington through the lens of Cruz's personal experience. In the book, Cruz pointedly identifies the underlying fundamental corruption of Washington's power players or as he has recently described them, 'the Washington Cartel'. Cruz convincingly exposes how the rigged game works for DC insiders at the expense of the American people.
In A Time for Truth, Cruz shows how the Washington Cartel has made politicians more accountable to lobbyists and special interests than to the people who elected them. He offers a rare look behind the curtain at Washington's backroom deal-making including the emblematic story of the debt ceiling fight where the Republican leaders in the Senate tried to have it both ways – rigging the game to raise the limit while voting against it. He remarks how surprising it was to him how easily politicians assimilate into Washington's corrupt culture and how few resist it.
He calls out the deceitfulness of Republican leadership in the Obamacare fight where Senate Leader Mitch McConnell won his own race campaigning against it but inside the Senate, led the fight to keep it.
A Time for Truth also gives readers a lesser-known in-depth perspective into Cruz's career leading up to his unlikely win in the 2012 race for United States Senate in Texas. He writes about his time working as a law clerk for U.S. Supreme Court Justice William Rehnquist and as Solicitor General for the State of Texas arguing nine times in front of that same court. In his role as one of the nation's top litigators, he gives surprising details of a Supreme Court case he won against the George W. Bush administration. The win was a major victory for the Second Amendment and U.S. sovereignty where the administration argued in favor of placing international law over the Constitution.
But A Time for Truth goes well beyond politics and policy. Cruz writes introspectively about his own remarkable personal journey. As the son of an immigrant father and glass-ceiling breaking mother who both instilled in him a love for America and inspired him to work hard to keep its promise for the next generation. Cruz tells the remarkable American story of being the son a working-class Irish-Italian mother and a Cuban father who came to this country with almost nothing, to becoming a U.S. Senator and candidate for President of the United States.
Cruz will spend the next two weeks promoting the message of A Time for Truth in a national tour that begins today in New York and continues on with stops in Texas and several other states after that. A high-resolution graphic of the book, cover can be downloaded here.
  