
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate three individuals to serve in his administration and announced two individuals to serve as members of the Federal Judiciary.
The President intends to nominate Edward William Gnehm, Jr. to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan. A career member of the Senior Foreign Service, he has served as Ambassador to Australia since June 2000. He held the post of Director General of the Foreign Service and Assistant Secretary for Personnel from 1997 to 2000, and was Deputy to the U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations and Permanent Representative from 1994 to 1997. He has held a variety of overseas posts, including Ambassador to Kuwait immediately following the Gulf War, and served as Deputy Assistant Secretary in the Bureau of Near Eastern Affairs. Ambassador Gnehm is originally from Georgia and earned a B.A. and M.A. from George Washington University.
The President intends to nominate Larry C. Napper to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Kazakhstan. A career member of the Foreign Service, he has served as the Director of S.E.E.D., Support for Eastern European Democracy, since 1998, and before that held the post of Ambassador to Latvia. Napper was the Director of the Soviet Desk at the Department of State from 1991 to 1994. He has held numerous posts overseas including Deputy Chief of Mission in Bucharest and Political and Consular Officer in Moscow. He is the recipient of several Department awards including an award for valor in 1990. Originally from Texas, he is a graduate of Texas A&M University and received a Master's Degree from the University of Virginia.
The President intends to nominate Frank Huddle, Jr. to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Tajikistan. A career member of the Senior Foreign Service, he has held the post of Principal Officer in Toronto since 1999 and was Principal Officer in Mumbai from 1996 to 1999. He served in Washington, D.C. as the Director of the Office of Australia, New Zealand and Pacific Island Affairs from 1994 to 1996 and was Charge d'Affaris in Rangoon from 1990 to 1994. He has completed a variety of assignments overseas and at the Department of State including Principal Officer in Cebu and Songkhla and as a political analyst for South Asia in the Bureau of Intelligence and Research. Originally from California he is a graduate of Brown University and received a Master's Degree from Harvard University.
The President will nominate Richard R. Clifton to be a United States Circuit Judge for the Ninth Circuit.
The President will nominate Carolyn B. Kuhl to be a United States Circuit Judge for the Ninth Circuit.
  