
    Governor Dwinell, the New Hampshire Congressional Delegation, Governor Adams, distinguished guests, my fellow Americans
Of course I am not going to make a speech. But I am in New Hampshire and it seems fitting that I should try to express one or two thoughts as to what New Hampshire has come to mean to me.
For a long time, New Hampshire has been a source of strength and aid. We have a sturdy Congressional delegation from New Hampshire in the Congress. At the head of that delegation is a very Senior Senator whose knowledge of public life has been long dedicated to the public good. Today he, with other forward-looking Americans in Washington, is trying to hammer out through the anvil of debate and legislative processes a program which will conform to the deep-seated desire of America for peace--for peace abroad and a widely shared prosperity here at home.
Americans covet no other country's land. We covet no additional power. We need no additional prestige. We want--in a land where each man is the king of his own castle--we want mere opportunity to expand, to continue to grow, and opportunity to attain our deepest spiritual and intellectual aspirations. That is what we want. That is what a forward-looking program means. That is what your delegation, under the leadership of Senator Bridges, is seeking.
Now New Hampshire has come to mean some other things to me, because I have had Sherman Adams by my side.
Once, in the war, General Marshall and General Bradley and I happened to be talking together and the conversation turned to the qualities that we were constantly seeking in the generals that served in the Army, in order that the job of the war would be most quickly and effectively accomplished.
Now all such qualities as courage, and decisiveness, and consideration for men--everything that you would think of as a necessary quality in a general, were discussed--his tactical skill, his vast experience, his reputation, and so on.
But finally we came down to this one thing--the first quality you must seek in a general is exactly the same quality that you must seek in any man who serves the public: selflessness.
I think that Sherman Adams in the last two years--and I must say I have long sought for an opportunity to express a little bit more accurately my feeling of indebtedness to Sherman--here, it seems to me, is the proper place to do it--for these past two years, I think that he has exhibited this quality of selflessness as much as any man I have known.
He has not sought honor for himself. He has sought, in his position, almost an anonymity, to serve his country by working with the legislators, by working with the staff that is set up in the White House, by advising me and trying to keep me from stumbling too often. He has found that last, possibly, one of his toughest problems.
In any event, I think that I could express my feelings this morning by thanking New Hampshire and the town of Lincoln for sending to me Sherman Adams, to serve as the head of the staff that, without publicity, with no credit other than that which goes with that of a conscience that recognizes duty well done, is working day by day to further all of those programs that we believe will actually promote peace in the world and prosperity--a widely shared prosperity at home.
It has been a great honor for me to come to New Hampshire. It is a greater honor for me to come to this one little spot that is so dear to the heart of my good friend, my chief of staff Sherman Adams.
Thank you all. It has been fine to meet you.
NOTE.: The President spoke at 10:42 a.m.
  