
    Today President Donald J. Trump announced his intent to nominate a fifteenth wave of United States Attorney nominees and tenth wave of United States Marshal nominees as follows:
If confirmed, Robert S. Brewer, Jr. will serve as the United States Attorney for the Southern District of California. Bob Brewer is currently Of Counsel at Seltzer Caplan McMahon Vitek. Mr. Brewer previously served as a Deputy District Attorney in Los Angeles County from 1975 to 1977, and as an Assistant United States Attorney in the Central District of California from 1977 to 1982 where he successfully prosecuted a variety of cases including espionage, bank robbery, murder for hire, and aircraft hijacking. He held various management positions, including Assistant Chief of the Criminal Division. From 1982 through the present, Mr. Brewer has been in private practice, including from 1991 to 2009 as a partner at McKenna Long & Aldridge LLP, and from 2009 to 2014 as a partner at Jones Day. Before attending law school, Mr. Brewer served in the United States Army as an Airborne Ranger and received the Silver Star and two Bronze Stars for his service in the Vietnam War. Mr. Brewer has been a Fellow in the American College of Trial Lawyers since 1999. Mr. Brewer earned his B.A. from St. Lawrence University, and his J.D. from the University of San Diego School of Law.
If confirmed, Jason R. Dunn of Colorado will serve as the United States Attorney for the District of Colorado. Jason Dunn is currently a shareholder at Brownstein Hyatt Farber Schreck LLP, where he chairs the firm's Political and Regulatory Law Practice Group and its State Attorneys General Practice Group. His legal practice focuses on regulatory and consumer protection investigations, constitutional and election law, and appeals. He has argued numerous cases in the Colorado Supreme Court and the 10th Circuit Court of Appeals. Mr. Dunn previously served as Deputy Attorney General under Colorado Attorney General John Suthers, helping manage an office of over 250 lawyers and shaping Colorado's legal strategy in national and state litigation. Following law school, Mr. Dunn clerked for Justice (now Chief Justice) Nathan Coats of the Colorado Supreme Court. Mr. Dunn is a native of Colorado, and earned his B.S., M.P.A., and J.D. from the University of Colorado.
If confirmed, Matthew J. Schneider will serve as the United States Attorney for the Eastern District of Michigan. Matthew Schneider was appointed by Attorney General Sessions as United States Attorney on January 5, 2018. He previously was Chief Deputy Attorney General for the State of Michigan, and Chief Legal Counsel for the Michigan Attorney General's office. Prior to those positions, Mr. Schneider was the Chief of Staff and General Counsel for the Michigan Supreme Court. From 2003 to 2011, he served as an Assistant United States Attorney in Detroit, where he prosecuted violent crime and public corruption cases. Mr. Schneider was a Senior Advisor and Assistant General Counsel in the Office of Management and Budget and an associate at Wiley Rein LLP. He earned his B.A. from Michigan State University's James Madison College and his J.D. from the University of Michigan Law School.
If confirmed, Peter G. Strasser of Louisiana will serve as the United States Attorney for the Eastern District of Louisiana. Peter Strasser is currently a partner at the New Orleans office of Chaffe McCall, LLP. Previously, he served as an Assistant United States Attorney for the Eastern District of Louisiana, where he was the head of the organized crime and the economic crime sections. Mr. Strasser also served for over eleven years at United States Embassies in Eastern Europe, Asia, and Africa as a Resident Legal Advisor with the Department of Justice's Office of Overseas Prosecutorial Development, Assistance, and Training. Mr. Strasser is a retired Navy Reserve Captain, JAGC, where he served world-wide, and as a military judge. He earned his B.A., with distinction, from the University of Virginia and his J.D. from Washington and Lee Law School.
If confirmed, John M. Garrison of Texas will serve as the United States Marshal for the Eastern District of Texas. John Garrison is a retired Judicial Security Inspector for the U.S. Marshals Service (USMS) Eastern District of Texas. He joined the USMS in 1990 as a Deputy U.S. Marshal. Mr. Garrison spent his entire 28-year USMS career in the Eastern District of Texas, serving as the District's Sex Offender Investigations Coordinator, Judicial Security Inspector, and Acting Assistant Chief. During his career with the USMS, Mr. Garrison also served a member of the FBI Violent Crimes Task Force and the USMS Special Operations Group. Prior to joining the USMS, he served as a Deputy Sheriff for the Rapides Parish Sheriff's Office in Alexandria, Louisiana from 1987 to 1989. Mr. Garrison served in the United States Marine Corps from 1977 to 1980.
If confirmed, Bradley Jay LaRose of Vermont will serve as the United States Marshal for the District of Vermont. Brad LaRose is the retired Chief of Police for the Town of Essex, Vermont. He began his law enforcement career in 1978 as a police officer with the Williston, Vermont and Burlington, Vermont Police Departments. In 1980, Mr. LaRose joined the Essex Police Department as a patrol officer. Mr. LaRose rose through the ranks, serving as Sergeant, Lieutenant, Captain, and Acting Chief before becoming Chief of Police in 2012. He served as chief until his retirement in January 2018. Mr. LaRose holds a B.S. in Law Enforcement from Champlain College and an Associate of Science in Law Enforcement from Champlain College. He is a graduate of the FBI National Academy.
If confirmed, Mark B. Shepherd of Mississippi will serve as the United States Marshal for the Southern District of Mississippi. Before he retired, Mark Shepherd was the Sheriff of Pike County, Mississippi, a position he held for 13 years. He has served as an appointed member of the Mississippi Crime Stoppers Advisory Council since 2004 and as president of the Mississippi Sheriffs' Association from 2013 to 2014. Mr. Shepherd began his law enforcement career as a patrolman with the McComb Police Department, where he served for 20 years. He is a graduate of Southwest Mississippi Community College.
  