
    Renaissance woman Dr. Maya Angelou announced her endorsement of Hillary Clinton for president in a video tribute that was first shown on Tuesday at a fundraiser hosted by women of color. In the video, Dr. Angelou speaks in personal terms about her fondness for Hillary Clinton.
"I would encourage her to be a long-distance runner. Be in this thing to win," said Dr. Angelou. "You've got a lot of help and a lot of people care for you -- not just admire you, but really have profound affection for you."
Hillary Clinton saw the video for the first time with over 300 women of color at a luncheon to support her candidacy and learn more about the campaign. In addition to Dr. Angelou's video tribute, the women at the event heard from other noted participants included actress and foster care advocate Victoria Rowell and Mary Wilson of the Supremes. Several members of Congress also attended the event including Representatives Sheila Jackson Lee of Texas, Stephanie Tubbs Jones of Ohio, and Nydia Velasquez of New York, and Grace Napolitano of California.
"I was deeply moved by Maya's words. She never ceases to amaze me by her brilliance," said Clinton. "I have known Maya for many years and have been honored by her friendship. I'm thrilled to have her support in my campaign."
Dr. Maya Angelou is one of the great voices of contemporary literature. Throughout her life, she has filled many roles including poet, educator, historian, best-selling author, actress, playwright, civil-rights activist, producer, and director. Maya Angelou is known for the autobiographical writings I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings (1969) and All God's Children Need Traveling Shoes (1986). Her volume of poetry, Just Give Me a Cool Drink of Water 'Fore I Die (1971) was nominated for the Pulitzer Prize, and in 1993, Angelou read her poem On the Pulse of Morning during Bill Clinton's Presidential inauguration. It was only the second time in U.S. history that a poet had been asked to read at an inauguration.
The campaign has posted the video on its Web site. To view the video, [Click here] http://www.hillaryclinton.com/video/35.aspx.
  