
    John Ross Beyrle, of Michigan, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Bulgaria.
Alan W. Eastham, Jr., of Arkansas, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Malawi.
John R. Fisher, of the District of Columbia, to be an Associate Judge of the District of Columbia Court of Appeals for the term of fifteen years, vice Annice M. Wagner, retired.
Charles A. Ford, of Georgia, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Career Minister, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Honduras.
Kevin I. Fromer, of Virginia, to be a Deputy Under Secretary of the Treasury, vice John M. Duncan.
Henry Louis Johnson, of Mississippi, to be Assistant Secretary for Elementary and Secondary Education, Department of Education, vice Raymond Simon, resigned.
Marcus C. Peacock, of Minnesota, to be Deputy Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, vice Stephen L. Johnson, resigned.
Katherine Hubay Peterson, of California, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Botswana.
John M. Reich, of Virginia, to be Director of the Office of Thrift Supervision for a term of five years, vice James Gilleran, term expired.
Marie L. Yovanovich, of Connecticut, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Kyrgyz Republic.
WITHDRAWAL SENT TO THE SENATE:
John M. Reich, of Virginia, to be Director of the Office of Thrift Supervision for a term expiring October 23, 2007, vice James Gilleran, term expired, which was sent to the Senate on May 25, 2005.
  