
    "By investing in women around the world, we're investing in families, we're investing in prosperity, and we're investing in peace. -President Donald J. Trump
PROMOTING PEACE AND SECURITY BY EMPOWERING WOMEN: President Donald J. Trump has released a strategy to enhance women's leadership in efforts to prevent conflict, stem terrorism, and promote security.

Today, the Trump Administration released a Strategy on Women, Peace, and Security, which aims to increase women's meaningful leadership in political and civic life.
This strategy implements the Women, Peace, and Security Act signed by President Trump in 2017.

President Trump was the first to sign standalone legislation on this topic, making us the first country in the world with a comprehensive law on Women, Peace, and Security.


The United States will help enhance women's participation in resolving conflict, countering violent extremism, and building peace and stability.
When women are involved in peace negotiations, they are more likely to raise issues that help societies reconcile and recover.

In fact, research shows the peace agreements are more likely to succeed if women participate.



ADDRESSING INEQUALITY AND VIOLENCE: Across the world, there are strong correlations between women's empowerment and stability.

The United States recognizes that societies that empower women economically and politically are far more stable and peaceful.
Marginalization of women correlates with the likelihood that a nation will experience conflict.

14 of the 17 lowest-scoring countries in the Index for Gender have experienced armed conflict in the last two decades.


The United States will promote the protection of women and support humanitarian assistance efforts that address women's economic security, safety, and dignity.
The United States will work with partner countries to remove barriers, laws, and regulations that impede women's access to justice and participation in the peace and security process.

AN ADMINISTRATION PRIORITY: The Strategy will build on President Trump and his Administration's existing efforts to empower women and girls across the globe. 

President Trump signed National Security Presidential Memorandum-16 to establish the Women's Global Development Prosperity (W-GDP) Initiative, advancing women's participation in the global economy by focusing on workforce development, entrepreneurship, and creating an enabling environment.

W-GDP Initiative recognizes that women's economic empowerment is foundational to good defense policy, as underscored in the President's National Security Strategy.
The Initiative seeks to economically empower 50 million women across the developing world by 2025.


The United States was a founding country of the Women Entrepreneurs Finance Initiative (We-Fi) to increase access to finance for women entrepreneurs across the developing world.

  