
    STATEMENT OF ADMINISTRATION POLICY
(House Rules)(Sponsors: Whitten (D), Mississippi; Obey (D), Wisconsin)
At this stage of the process, the Administration supports passage of H.R. 5114, the Foreign Operations, Export Financing, and Related Programs Appropriations Bill, FY 1991, as reported out of the full Appropriations Committee, provided that amendments designed to change current United States policy regarding overseas family planning activities are not added to the bill. Any amendment that would weaken or circumvent the current Kemp-Kasten provision or the Mexico City policy would result in the President's senior advisors recommending veto. The President vetoed last year's bill because it contained an unacceptable provision relating to the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA).
H.R. 5114 contains a number of provisions that reflect a solid bipartisan approach to foreign policy. Some of these provisions support emerging democracies in Eastern Europe, Latin America and elsewhere. The bill also provides key assistance for the Andean countries engaged in fighting narco-traffickers. The Administration is also pleased by the much-reduced level of earmarking in the security assistance appropriations.
Further, compromises were reached in Committee that provide some additional funding over subcommittee levels for the world Bank and Foreign Military Financing. The Administration will continue to work with Congress to achieve funding levels for these programs and for others that more accurately reflect Administration priorities.
With regard to El Salvador, the House Leadership and the Administration are discussing this matter in an effort to reach a bipartisan U.S. policy that will support a cease-fire and a negotiated solution by the parties in the civil war. The Administration is encouraged by this effort to fashion a unified policy approach. However, should the final bill contain the provision on El Salvador, Section 531 as reported from the Committee, when it is presented to the President, his senior advisors would have to recommend veto.
Finally, there are a number of other provisions in the bill as reported by the Committee that are objectionable because they impair the President's ability to conduct foreign policy. These include the Notification to Congress on Debt Relief Agreements and the restrictions on assistance to the Cambodian Non-Communist Resistance. On these issues, the Administration would support modifications of the bill to make it more in accord with current U. S. policy.
  