
    ARLINGTON, VA -- U.S. Senator John McCain's presidential campaign today released a new Spanish radio ad, entitled "Economy," which will run in Nevada and New Mexico. Please find below transcripts and links to listen to the ads.
"Economy" -- (Radio:60)
 ANNCR: When we are buying groceries, we don't have a political party. When we are filling up the gas tank, we are not Republicans, Democrats or Independents. We are Hispanics, and we all are hurting together in this uncertain economic time. We need someone that has a good economic plan, and that is John McCain. His plan is a realistic plan, not a political one, and it will help jump-start the local and national economies.
He proposed to Congress a federal gas-tax holiday for the summer months. He wants middle-class families to pay less taxes so we can have more money in our pocket and less in Washington. And he wants to help families hurt by the housing crisis under his HOME Plan.
He is optimistic and knows that we all, "unidos," together, Republicans, Democrats, and Independents, can find a better way to fill up our tanks, our shopping carts, and our dreams.
That's why in (Nevada/New Mexico), "Estamos Unidos con John McCain."
JOHN MCCAIN: I'm John McCain and I approve this message.
ANNCR: Paid for by John McCain 2008.
ANNCR: Cuando estamos comprando en el supermercado, no tenemos partido poltico. Cuando estamos llenando el tanque de la gasolina, no somos Republicanos, Demcratas o Independientes. Somos Hispanos y estamos sufriendo juntos en estos tiempos de incertidumbre econmica. Necesitamos a alguien que tenga un buen plan econmico, ese alguien es John McCain. Su plan es realista, no poltico y ayudar a reactivar la economa local y nacional.
l propuso al Congreso quitar el impuesto de la gasolina en los meses de verano. Quiere que las familias de clase media paguen menos impuestos para que tengamos ms dinero en nuestra bolsa y menos dinero (para la burocracia en) Washington. Y con su plan llamado H.O.M.E. quiere ayudar a las familias que estn padeciendo la crisis hipotecaria.
John McCain es optimista y sabe que todos unidos, Republicanos, Demcratas e Independientes, podemos encontrar soluciones para llenar nuestros tanques de gasolina, nuestros carritos del supermercado y nuestros sueos.
Por eso en Nevada/Nuevo Mxico, Estamos Unidos con John McCain.
JOHN MCCAIN: I'm John McCain and I approve this message.
ANNCR: Paid for by John McCain 2008.
LISTEN TO THE NEVADA "ECONOMY" AD HERE OR HERE
 LISTEN TO THE NEW MEXICO "ECONOMY" AD HERE OR HERE

  