
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
June 5
The President announced his intention to nominate C. Richard Allen as a Managing Director of the Corporation for National and Community Service.
The President announced his intention to appoint Joyce A. Savocchio to the Board of Trustees of the Christopher Columbus Fellowship Foundation.
June 6
In the morning, the President met with Prime Minister Gyula Horn of Hungary.
In the afternoon, the President traveled to Baltimore, MD. He returned to Washington, DC, later in the afternoon.
The President named Stephen D. Harlan and Edward A. Singletary to the District of Columbia Financial Responsibility and Management Assistance Authority.
The President announced his intention to nominate Beth Susan Slavet to be Vice Chair and member of the Merit Systems Protection Board.
The White House announced that the President has appointed Jeremy Ben-Ami as Deputy Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy.
June 7
The President named Betsy Myers as Deputy Assistant to the President and Director of Women's Initiatives.
The President named Frank Herrera and Mary Jo Waits as members of the Community Adjustment and Investment Program Advisory Committee for the North American Development Bank.
The President announced his intention to nominate John J. Callahan to be Assistant Secretary for Management and Budget at the Department of Health and Human Services.
June 8
In the afternoon, the President had a telephone conversation with Capt. Scott F. O'Grady, USAF, who was rescued after being shot down and stranded in western Bosnia.
The President selected the following individuals to serve as delegates to the White House Conference on Small Business: Pedro Alfonso; James Burke; Paula Calimafde; Sharon Casey; Judith A. Clark; John H. French; Gail S. Messerman; Mary Ann Mitchell; James W. Mozley; Santiago J. Negre; Edward M. Nigro; R. Donahue Peebles; William Petrocelli; Joan Y. Phillips; Carlos Portes; John C. Rennie; and Amy Zisook.
June 9
The President announced his intention to appoint Dr. Richard Garwin and Dr. Edwin Smith as members of the U.S. Arms Control and Disarmament Agency's Scientific and Policy Advisory Committee.
The President selected an additional seven individuals who will serve as delegates to the White House Conference on Small Business: Brenda Garrand, Wayne Granquist, James T. Hamilton, Richard C. Herring, Donna Jean Rainville, George Shanklin, and William Worley.
The President announced his intention to appoint the following individuals to the President's Committee on Mental Retardation: Joyce Keller, K. Charlie Lakin, and Jacquelyn B. Victorian.
  