
    A four-part statement on restoring fiscal discipline
LAKE JACKSON, Texas —June 21, 2012 GOP presidential candidate Ron Paul issued a statement on what his budget priorities will be if elected. See statement below.
"As President, I will not be able to waive a magic wand and solve all of our problems overnight. I will have to work with Congress and build consensus from the American People.
"But, there are several things that I will do right away to strengthen the fight for Constitutional government.
"First, I will veto any spending bills that contribute to an unbalanced budget.
"During these tough times, the American people are tightening their belts and making sacrifices to make ends meet. So should government.
"Second, I will veto any spending bill that contains funding for Planned Parenthood, facilities that perform abortion and all government family planning schemes.
"Like millions of Americans, I believe that innocent life deserves protection and I am deeply offended by abortion. It is unconscionable to me that fellow Pro-Life Americans are forced to fund abortion through their tax dollars.
"As a Congressman, I've never voted for any budget that includes funding for Planned Parenthood. Instead, I've introduced the Taxpayers' Freedom of Conscience Act to cut off all taxpayer funding of abortions, so-called "family planning" services and international abortionists.
"Third, I will direct my administration to cease any further implementation of ObamaCare.
"And fourth, I will on day one of my administration begin to repeal by Executive Order unconstitutional and burdensome regulations on American business. I will be the first President to shrink the size of the Federal Register. We must create a favorable regulatory environment for U.S. business. This cannot be stressed enough."
2 Responses to "Ron Paul Issues Budget Statement"


June 22, 2011 at 7:04 pm, What Would Ron Paul's First Year in the White House Look Like? | The State Column said:
[...] Ron Paul (R-Tex.), a candidate for the Republican presidential nomination, released a statement this week that outlined four budget priorities that the Texas congressman would bring to the White [...]


June 22, 2011 at 7:42 pm, Rep. Ron Paul Tackles Abortion Funding and Federal Deficit | The State Column said:
[...] Ron Paul (R-Tex.), a candidate for the Republican presidential nomination, released a statement this week that outlined four budget priorities that the Texas congressman would bring to the White [...]


  