
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate two individuals, appoint eleven individuals, and designate three individuals to serve in his administration:
The President intends to nominate Robert Allen Pittman, of Florida, to be an Assistant Secretary of Veterans Affairs (Human Resources and Administration). Mr. Pittman currently serves as Executive Director of U.S. Oncology, Inc., in Clearwater, Florida. He has worked for the cancer care services company since 1993. Earlier in his career, Mr. Pittman served as Vice President of Human Resources and Administration for Option Care, Inc., in Chicago, Illinois. He earned his bachelor's degree from the University of Arkansas. Mr. Pittman is a veteran of the U.S. Navy Reserve.
The President intends to nominate John Ripin Miller, of Washington, for the Rank of Ambassador at Large during his tenure of service as Director of the Office to Monitor and Combat Trafficking in Persons at the Department of State. Mr. Miller has served in this position since 2002. He previously served as Chairman of the Board of the Discovery Institute, a Seattle-based organization devoted to research and writing on international affairs, trade, defense, science, economics, technology, and transportation. From 1985 to 1993, Mr. Miller served in the U.S. House of Representatives. Mr. Miller earned his bachelor's degree from Bucknell University and his master's degree and J.D. from Yale University.
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the National Cancer Advisory Board, for a six-year term expiring March 9, 2010:
John Edward Niederhuber of Wisconsin (Public), and Designate Chairman for a two-year term
Kathryn Giusti of Connecticut (Public)
Diana M. Lopez of Florida (Science/Environmental Carcinogenesis)
Carolyn D. Runowicz of Connecticut (Science)
Daniel Von Hoff of Arizona (Science/Environmental Carcinogenesis)
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Governors of the Board of Governors of the American National Red Cross, for a three-year term:
Bonnie McElveen-Hunter of North Carolina, and upon appointment Designate Principal Officer
Secretary of Commerce Donald Louis Evans of Texas
Secretary of Education Roderick R. Paige of Texas
Secretary of State Colin Luther Powell of Virginia
Secretary of Veterans Affairs Anthony Joseph Principi of California
Secretary of Health and Human Services Tommy G. Thompson of Wisconsin
The President intends to designate Jerry D. Jennings, of Michigan, to be United States Co-Chairman of the United States-Russian Joint Commission on POW/MIAs.
  