
    NOMINATIONS SENT TO THE SENATE:
Michael Anthony Battle, Sr., of Georgia, to be Representative of the United States of America to the African Union, with the rank and status of Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary.
Donald Sternoff Beyer Jr., of Virginia, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Switzerland, and to serve concurrently and without additional compensation as Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Principality of Liechtenstein.
Martha Larzelere Campbell, of Michigan, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of the Marshall Islands.
Donald Henry Gips, of Colorado, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of South Africa.
Gordon Gray, of Virginia, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Tunisia.
Rocco Landesman, of New York, to be Chairperson of the National Endowment for the Arts for a term of four years, vice Dana Gioia, resigned.
Alfonso E. Lenhardt, of New York, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the United Republic of Tanzania.
John R. Nay, of Michigan, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Suriname.
John R. Norris, of the District of Columbia, to be a Member of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission for the remainder of the term expiring June 30, 2012, vice Joseph Timothy Kelliher, resigned.
Daniel M. Rooney, of Pennsylvania, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Ireland.
Richard J. Schmierer, of Virginia, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Sultanate of Oman.
Pamela Jo Howell Slutz, of Texas, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Burundi.
Vinai K. Thummalapally, of Colorado, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Belize.
Joseph W. Westphal, of New York, to be Under Secretary of the Army, vice Nelson M. Ford.
  