
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate three individuals, appoint one individual and designate two individuals to serve in his Administration.
The President intends to nominate Ronald K. McMullen, of Iowa, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the State of Eritrea. Dr. McMullen, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, currently serves as Director for Afghanistan and Pakistan Affairs at the Bureau of International Narcotics and Law Enforcement Affairs at the Department of State. Prior to this, he served as Associate Dean of the Leadership and Management School at the Foreign Service Institute's George P. Shultz National Foreign Affairs Training Center. Earlier in his career, he served as Deputy Chief of Mission in Rangoon, Burma. Dr. McMullen received his bachelor's degree from Drake University, a master's degree from the University of Minnesota, and a master's degree as well as his PhD from the University of Iowa.
The President intends to nominate Deborah Taylor Tate, of Tennessee, to be a Commissioner of the Federal Communications Commission for a five-year term expiring 06/30/12. Ms. Tate currently serves as a Commissioner of the Federal Communications Commission. Prior to this, she served as Director and Chairman of the Tennessee Regulatory Authority. Earlier in her career, she served as an Attorney and Senior Policy Advisor to former Governor Lamar Alexander and former Governor Don Sundquist. Ms. Tate received her bachelor's degree and her JD from the University of Tennessee at Knoxville.
The President intends to nominate John J. Young, Jr., of Virginia, to be Under Secretary for Acquisition, Technology and Logistics at the Department of Defense. Mr. Young currently serves as Director of Defense Research and Engineering at the Department of Defense. Prior to this, he served as Assistant Secretary of the Navy (Research Development and Acquisition). Earlier in his career, he served as a Professional Staff Member for the United States Senate Committee on Appropriations - Subcommittee on Defense. Mr. Young received his bachelor's degree from the Georgia Institute of Technology and his master's degree from Stanford University.
The President intends to appoint LaSalle Doheny Leffall, Jr., of the District of Columbia, to be a Member of the President's Cancer Panel, for the remainder of a three-year term expiring 02/20/10 and designate Chairman for a one-year term.
The President intends to designate Horace A. Thompson, of Mississippi, to be Chairman of the Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission.
  