
    The United States has joined with its European allies and other countries of the United Nations in strongly condemning the terrorist violence perpetrated by armed extremists determined to destabilize the democratic, multi-ethnic government of Macedonia. Their violent tactics threaten U.S. and international efforts to promote regional peace and stability and pose a potential danger to U.S. military forces and other Americans supporting peacekeeping efforts. Macedonian President Trajkovski has asked for our support to combat these extremists, who are undermining the political dialogue currently underway among Macedonia?s legitimately elected leaders. This dialogue offers a real opportunity for a negotiated and peaceful settlement. As the President stated in Europe, we must face down extremists in Macedonia and elsewhere who seek to use violence to redraw borders or subvert the democratic process. The President has therefore ordered two actions be taken to deprive these extremists of financial and material support and to restrict their travel.
First, the President issued an Executive Order prohibiting as of June 27, 2001 U.S. persons from transferring, paying, exporting, withdrawing or otherwise dealing in the property or interests in property of persons involved in violent and obstructionist actions, whom are identified in an annex to the order. Others may be added to this list in the future.
Second, the President issued a proclamation restricting the entry to the United States of those individuals who actively obstruct implementation of the Dayton Peace Accords or UN Security Council Resolution 1244 and who otherwise seek to undermine peace and stability in the region. In addition, the proclamation restricts the entry into the United States of those who are responsible for wartime atrocities committed in the region since 1991.
The purpose of these two actions is to send a clear message to the extremists and their supporters in the region, who actively obstruct and undermine peace and stability, that such tactics are unacceptable, and that we will use the means at our disposal to isolate these groups and individuals and cut their access to financial support.
For the first time in history, there are democratic governments throughout southeast Europe. Legitimate grievances must be addressed through the democratic process. As President Trajkovski said on Tuesday, Macedonians must reinvigorate the political dialogue with all legitimate parties; the men of violence must lay down their weapons, so that all Macedonian citizens can live in peace.
  