
    President Trump. So we're signing a very important document, a pretty comprehensive document. And we've had a really great term together, a great relationship. I'll be giving a news conference at 2:30, which is in a little bit less than 2 hours. And we'll discuss this at great length. In the meantime, I believe that they'll be handing it out on behalf of Chairman Kim or myself. And we're both very honored to sign the document. Thank you.
Would you like to say something to the press?
Chairman Kim. Today we had a historic meeting and decided to leave the past behind. And we are about to sign a historic document. The world will see a major change. I would like to express my gratitude to President Trump to make this meeting happen. Thank you.
President Trump. Thank you very much.
Okay. Okay.
[At this point, President Trump and Chairman Kim signed the joint statement.]
North Korea's Nuclear Weapons Program 
Q. Mr. President, did he agree to denuclearize, sir?
President Trump. We're starting that process very quickly. Very, very quickly. Absolutely.
North Korea-U.S. Relations 
Q. Mr. President, 100-percent denuclearization?
Q. Did you talk about Otto Warmbier, sir?
Q. Mr. Kim, did you agree to give up your nuclear arms?
President Trump. You'll be seeing everything in just a little while. The letter that we're signing is very comprehensive, and I think both sides are going to be very impressed with the result. A lot of good will went into this, a lot of work, a lot of preparation. I want to thank everybody on both sides. Secretary Pompeo and all of his counterparts, they were absolutely fantastic.
Thank you very much. That's fantastic. Thank you very much.
Thank you very much, everybody. We'll see you a little bit later. And we're very proud of what took place today. I think our whole relationship with North Korea and the Korean Peninsula is—it's going to be a very much different situation than it has in the past. We both want to do something. We both are going to do something. And we have developed a very special bond. So people are going to be very impressed. People are going to be very happy. And we're going to take care of a very big and very dangerous problem for the world.
And I want to thank Chairman Kim. We spent a lot of time together today, a very intensive time. And I would actually say that it worked out for both of us far better than anybody could have expected. I think far better—I watched the various news reports. I would say far better than anybody even predicted.
And this is going to lead to more and more and more. And it's an honor to be with you, a very great honor.
Thank you. Thank you to all of your representatives very much.
Thank you very much, everybody. Thank you.
North Korea-U.S. Relations 
Q. Mr. Kim, will you invite Chairman Kim to the White House?
President Trump. Absolutely, I will.
Q. Mr. Kim, would you like to come to Washington?
President Trump. Thank you. Thank you, everybody.
  