
    President Donald J. Trump today announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key positions in his Administration:
Brian J. Bulatao of Texas, to be an Under Secretary of State for Management.
Mr. Bulatao has served as the chief operating officer of the Central Intelligence Agency since 2017 and as a senior advisor to then-CIA Director Pompeo. Mr. Bulatao also served for seven years as an officer in the United States Army from 1986 to 1993. Following his honorable discharge from the military, Mr. Bulatao was the president and chief operating officer of a number of private sector companies, including Thayer Aerospace, Wichita, Kansas, Nefab America, Coppel, Texas, and Niteo Products, Dallas, Texas. Mr. Bulatao was a distinguished graduate of the United States Military Academy, receiving his B.S. in 1986. He received his master of business administration from Harvard Business School, in 1995. Mr. Bulatao was the recipient of the CIA Director's Award for Distinguished Service and was an honor graduate of the U.S. Army Ranger School.
Robert C. Tapella of Virginia, to be Director of the Government Publishing Office.
Mr. Tapella serves as professional oversight staff of the Committee on House Administration of the United States Congress with expertise in the areas of printing, publishing, and security credentialing. Mr. Tapella led a review of Title 44 of the U.S. Code, which outlines the role of public printing and publishing of documents in the Federal government, as well as the Federal Depository Library Program. Mr. Tapella served as the 25th Public Printer of the United States under President Bush and continued his service under President Obama. He began his career as calligrapher, illuminator, and bookbinder, and later ventured into print brokerage and direct mail businesses. Mr. Tapella, a 1991 graduate of Cal Poly San Luis Obispo with a B.S. in graphic communication, was designated as an honored alumni in 2008 and presently serves as chairman of the Dean's Council on the library, and is also a member of the graphic communication department advisory board.
Karen S. Evans of West Virginia, to be an Assistant Secretary of Energy for Cybersecurity, Energy Security and Emergency Response.
Mrs. Evans has professional experience in cybersecurity policy and strategy, as well as critical infrastructure. She entered federal service as a GS-2 and worked her way to the Senior Executive Service as the Chief Information Officer for the Department of Energy prior to her presidential appointment as the Administrator for E-Government and Information Technology for nearly six years under President George W. Bush. Mrs. Evans serves as the national director for U.S. Cyber Challenge, a public-private program dedicated to strengthening the cybersecurity workforce. She also serves as a director for private sector and not-for-profit boards. Mrs. Evans received her master of business administration and B.A. in chemistry from West Virginia University.
Mary Bridget Neumayr of Virginia, to be a Member of the Council on Environmental Quality and upon confirmation designate Chair.
Ms. Neumayr currently serves as chief of staff of the Council on Environmental Quality. Prior to joining CEQ in March of 2017, she served in a variety of positions with the Committee on Energy and Commerce in the U.S. House of Representatives, including deputy chief counsel, energy and environment in 2017; senior energy counsel from 2011 to 2017; and counsel from 2009 to 2010. Ms. Neumayr also served as deputy counsel for environment and nuclear programs at the U.S. Department of Energy from 2006 to 2009, and counsel to the assistant attorney general for the environment and natural resources division at the U.S. Department of Justice from 2003 to 2006. Prior to her government service, Ms. Neumayr was in private legal practice from 1989 to 2003. She received her B.A. from Thomas Aquinas College and her J.D. from the University of California, Hastings College of the Law.
Ellen E. McCarthy of Virginia, to be an Assistant Secretary of State for Intelligence and Research.
Ms. McCarthy has been president of Noblis NSP since 2016. She has experience in the intelligence community including service as the chief operating officer of the National Geospatial Intelligence Agency from 2013 to 2016. Before joining NGA, Ms. McCarthy served as president of the Intelligence and National Security Alliance from 2009 to 2013. She was also director of the human capital management office from 2005 to 2009 and the acting director of security within the Office of the Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence from 2003 to 2005. Ms. McCarthy also served as the Director of Intelligence Operations, Strategy and Policy for the United States Coast Guard from 1998 to 2003 and an intelligence research specialist for the U.S. Atlantic Command from 1991 to 1998. Ms. McCarthy earned a B.A. from the University of South Carolina, and she holds a Master's Degree in public policy from the University of Maryland. She is the recipient of a Secretary of Defense Meritorious Civilian Service Medal, a National Intelligence Superior Service Medal, and a Presidential Rank Award, Meritorious.
  