
    "We are creating a culture of life in America and that's a really good thing."
WASHINGTON, D.C. – This morning, Tim Scott spoke at Faith and Freedom Coalition's Road to Majority Conference in Washington, D.C. Tim discussed the one year anniversary of the Dobbs' decision, personal attacks from the radical Left, and the corruption of the Biden administration.
Watch the full speech here
Below are excerpts from Tim's delivered remarks:
We have to start with tomorrow's anniversary and thank God Almighty for the Dobbs' decision. We are creating a culture of life in America, and that's a really good thing....
The radical left has lost so much faith in America. They've lost faith in life itself. But we are here to tell 'em life is good and we are proud to be Americans.
I said that because not only was Secretary Yellen, but then the ladies on the View, Joy Behar told me, I don't know what it feels like to be Black.
I was like, let me go on that show and have a conversation with the women of The View, because I gotta say their comments were offensive and dangerous and disgusting. And so I went on the view and said, your comments are offensive, dangerous, and disgusting. Because to suggest that the only way for a child of color to make it in this nation is to be the exception and not the rule is a lie from the pit of hell alive, from the pit of hell. But then President Obama decided to jump in as well.
He says, I'm too optimistic. I have been accused of being too optimistic, too positive, too proud to be an American for those accounts. I am guilty. Guilty, yes. Charged. I love America. I love our country....
In this radical left Biden administration, they weaponized the Department of Justice against their political enemies. That is wrong. We deserve better in the United States of America. We deserve better, I wish, and as president of the United States, I would change the trajectory of this nation by focusing on restoring confidence and integrity in the DOJ because we will first fire Joe Biden, second fire, Merrick Garland. Third, fire Chris Wray at the FBI.
  