
    America has a special interest in its representation in the Olympic Games and other international athletic competitions. As we mark our Bicentennial, nothing would be more fitting to our celebrations here at home than to be represented by our finest amateur athletes on the Olympic fields.
The Federal Government has never attempted to direct amateur athletics in this country, nor should it. However, the Government does have a role in helping to promote United States competition in international sporting events.
America's best amateur athletes can represent us in the Olympics only if the Federally-chartered United States Olympic Committee and related organizations are sufficiently organized to recruit, screen, and develop the athletes on our teams. In the past, rivalries among amateur sports organizations have sometimes fragmented our international sports efforts, hindered opportunity for our athletes to develop their skills fully, and restrained voluntary financial support for our Olympic teams as well as other amateur sports teams engaged in international competitions.
Because there are conflicting views on the best methods of addressing the problems facing international amateur athletics, it is desirable and appropriate that a Commission of outstanding, knowledgeable Americans undertake an immediate study of our Nation's problems in the Olympic sports.
Now, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me as President of the United States, it is hereby ordered as follows:
SECTION 1. There is hereby established the President's Commission on Olympic Sports (hereinafter referred to as the Commission).
SEC. 2. The Commission shall consist of a Chairman and thirteen other members, who shall be appointed by the President. In addition, the Speaker of the House of Representatives and the President Pro Tempore of the Senate are requested to appoint two members of the House of Representatives and two members of the Senate, respectively, to serve as members of the Commission.
SEC. 3. (a) The Commission shall conduct a full and complete study and evaluation of the United States Olympic Committee, its activities, and its present and former membership groups on a sport-by-sport basis as they relate to the effectiveness of United States teams in international competitions in the Olympic sports.
(b) The Commission shall determine what factors impede or tend to impede or prevent the United States from fielding its best amateur athletes for participation in Olympic Games and other international amateur sporting events in the Olympic sports.
(c) The Commission shall study methods to assure adequate financial support for our Olympic teams and other amateur athletic teams participating in international competitions in the Olympic sports.
(d) The Commission shall study and evaluate any other related matters which have a direct bearing upon participation by amateur athletes of the United States in Olympic Games and other international amateur sporting events in the Olympic sports, including development plans to increase the level of sports participation generally in the United States.
SEC. 4. (a) The Commission shall, through the Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare, submit two reports of its findings and recommendations to the President.
(b) The first report shall be an overview of the problems and an indepth analysis of the organization and operation of the United States Olympic Committee and other major sports groups as they relate to participation in international competition in the Olympic sports. This report shall be submitted within five months after the Commission meets for the first time. Included in this report shall be a set of recommendations for the President which deal with overall amateur sports problems.
(c) The second report shall be an analysis of the organizational and developmental problems in each Olympic sport. This shall be submitted within seven months after the first report and contain an analysis of the financial and facilities requirements of each sport and recommend ways to provide needed funds.
SEC. 5. The Chairman of the Commission is authorized to establish such Advisory Committees as he may deem appropriate to carry out the purposes of this Order.
SEC. 6. (a) The Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare shall, to the extent permitted by law, furnish necessary staff, supplies, facilities, and other administrative services for the Commission.
(b) Expenses of the Commission shall, to the extent permitted by law, be met from funds available to the Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare.
SEC. 7. Members of the Commission and Advisory Committees created pursuant to this Order, not otherwise employed in the Government, may receive an amount not to exceed $100 per day from the United States for their service with the Commission, and may, to the extent permitted by law, be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence as authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5703), for persons employed intermittently in the Government service.
SEC. 8. The Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare shall perform such functions with respect to the Commission and Advisory Committees created pursuant to this Order, as may be required by the Federal Advisory Committee Act (86 Stat. 770; 5 U.S.C., App. 1).
GERALD R. FORD
The White House,
June 19, 1975.
  