
    In Charlotte, the Vice President continued her fight to safeguard Americans' fundamental freedoms.
On Saturday, in Charlotte, North Carolina, Vice President Kamala Harris delivered a national address on reproductive freedom exactly one year after the Supreme Court's decision to overturn Roe v. Wade. Rallying alongside a crowd of more than 1,600 people including community leaders and advocates, the Vice President lifted up the stories of those impacted by this health care crisis, called out extremists for their dangerous and deeply unpopular efforts to take away a woman's right to make her own decisions about her own body, and renewed her call for national legislation that protects reproductive rights.
Read more below: 
ELLE: Vice President Kamala Harris on One Year Post-Roe: 'So Many Women Are Silently Suffering' [ELLE Staff, 6/24/23]
On Saturday, the one-year anniversary of the Supreme Court overturning Roe v. Wade and ending the constitutional right to abortion, Vice President Kamala Harris shared a message with ELLE readers.
In the exclusive video—filmed backstage after the vice president gave a national address in Charlotte, North Carolina, about the state of abortion rights in the U.S.—Harris said: "My concern is that so many women are silently suffering, and we want to make sure that we're reaching out to let folks know that we're not gonna judge them. We want them to know that they exist in a country where there is care and compassion and an acknowledgement of the right of each woman to make decisions for herself."
She continued, "I think on this issue, it's really important to also just remember: You don't have to abandon your faith or your deeply held beliefs to agree that the government should not be telling a woman what to do."
The vice president also emphasized the importance of voting for pro-abortion candidates, explaining that "the right that the Court took away, Congress can put back in place." President Joe Biden has previously promised that if Democrats are able to take control of Congress and garner enough votes to pass a bill reinstating the protections of Roe v. Wade, he would sign it into law. […]
Charlotte Observer: VP in Charlotte: Administration will fight for abortion rights | Charlotte Observer [Ryan Oehrli, 6/24/23]
Vice President Kamala Harris told a crowd Saturday in Charlotte that the Biden administration will stand firm for abortion rights amid Republican challenges nationally and in North Carolina.
"We, all of us, are now called upon to advance the promise of freedom, including the freedom of every woman to make decisions about her own body," Harris told the crowd.
She likened the cause of abortion rights to those taken up by past generations, including Civil Rights activists in Greensboro. […]
"Next week, overruling the will of the people, North Carolina will be the latest state with an extreme ban, in spite of the best efforts of Gov. Roy Cooper." "We're talking about real people every day in our country, who are being subjected to judgment. Being made to feel as though they should be silent. We can't stand for that. We can't tolerate that. It's just not right."
NBC: Kamala Harris says Roe v. Wade reversal created a 'health care crisis' (nbcnews.com) [Rebecca Shabad and Sally Bronston, 6/24/23]
In a speech marking the anniversary of the Supreme Court's reversal of Roe v. Wade, Vice President Kamala Harris on Saturday condemned the conservative justices for creating a "health care crisis in America."
"How dare they," Harris, the first female vice president, said to a crowd gathered in Charlotte, North Carolina. […]
"This fight is not only about people in one particular state, these extremists plan to take their agenda national. And that agenda, by the way, goes way beyond reproductive rights. A lot of these same folks attack the right to vote, that prevents the teaching of America's history." she said. […]
ABC News: Harris, Pence continue to differ one year after Dobbs [Fritz Farrow, 6/24/2023]
[…] "Over the past 365 days, the women of our nation have suffered under the consequences of these laws," Harris said, addressing a crowd in downtown Charlotte, North Carolina, on Saturday. "Laws that in design and effect have created chaos, confusion, and fear. Laws that have denied women of our country care even when their life and health were at risk." […]
Harris' speech serves as a bookend to the Biden campaign's week-long push to center abortion in the election. On Friday, President Joe Biden and Harris, along with the first lady and the second gentleman, attended a rally in Washington, D.C., where they accepted endorsements from pro-abortion groups EMILYs List, NARAL Pro-Choice America and Planned Parenthood Action Fund. […]
CNN: Kamala Harris found her voice on abortion rights in the year after Dobbs. Now she's making it central to her 2024 message [Jasmine Wright, 6/24/23]
[…] Harris tested her message at a keynote speech on reproductive rights Saturday in Charlotte, North Carolina, a place where White House officials have said is the "belly of the beast," for the current abortion debate after the state's Republican-led General Assembly banned most abortions after 12 weeks.
"Extremist Republicans in Congress have proposed to ban abortion nationwide. Nationwide. But I have news for them: We're not having that. Americans believe in freedom. And we will not allow you to destroy our most basic rights and principles," Harris said. […]
AP: One year later, the Supreme Court's abortion decision is both scorned and praised  [Geoff Mulvihill, 6/24/23]
[…] Vice President Kamala Harris spoke about the impact of the Dobbs ruling in Charlotte, North Carolina.
"We knew this decision would create a healthcare crisis in America," she said, pointing to women who were initially denied abortion access even during miscarriages because hospitals were concerned about legal fallout.
The laws restricting abortion "in design and effect have created chaos, confusion and fear," Harris said. […]
The Hill: Harris claims US in 'health care crisis,' pushes harder for codifying abortion access [Nick Robertson, 6/24/23]
Vice President Harris took to the stage in Charlotte, N.C., on Saturday, one year after the Supreme Court overturned Roe v. Wade, to double down on her push to codify abortion access in federal law. […]
The conservative court majority that overturned Roe created a "health care crisis in America," she said. "How dare they."
Harris and President Biden received early endorsements by a slate of women's rights organizations and abortion access nonprofits on Friday, and Harris signaled that abortion rights will be an important part of her reelection bid in 2024. […]
"We cannot in our nation allow people to silently suffer without telling their stories in a way that hopefully understands the importance of uplifting their voices, in support and in love and with a sense of empathy and agreement that they shouldn't have to have those kinds of experiences," Harris said Saturday.
Reuters: US activists rally one year after Supreme Court allowed abortion bans [Julia Harte, 6/24/23]
[…] A live crowd chanted "four more years" in Charlotte, North Carolina, as Democratic Vice President Kamala Harris spoke in favor of national legislation to protect abortion rights. A new Republican-backed law takes effect in North Carolina on July 1, cutting the legal window for abortions from 20 to 12 weeks of pregnancy.
"We know this fight will not truly be won until we secure this right for every American, which means ultimately the United States Congress must put back in place what the Supreme Court took away," Harris said. […]
Q City Metro: VP Kamala Harris urges N.C. to rally for reproductive rights on visit to Charlotte - QCity Metro [Destiniee Jaram, 6/24/23]
[…] During her speech, she called abortion bans an attack on "fundamental rights" which she says is the cause of a healthcare crisis, citing the present maternal mortality rate. […]
Harris also said that extremists who pass abortion laws are only the beginning, listing recent book bans and attacks on the right to vote as concerns.
The Vice President encouraged North Carolina residents to make their voices heard about laws regarding reproductive rights.
She suggested that anyone concerned about abortion bans organize and vote.
"Have the courage to stand for freedom," Harris said.
Additional Stories: AP: Harris pledges to protect abortion rights PBS News Hour: WATCH: Harris speaks about abortion rights in North Carolina on anniversary of Dobbs ruling Queen City News: Kamala Harris visit comes as White House signs third executive order on reproductive health care (qcnews.com) Yahoo News: VP Kamala Harris speaks about reproductive rights 1 year after SCOTUS Roe V. Wade overturn The Guardian: 'How dare they?' Kamala Harris says in fiery speech on Roe's overturn as protests mark anniversary – live (theguardian.com) WXII 12 (NBC): North Carolina: Vice President Kamala Harris to travel to Charlotte (wxii12.com) ABC 11 North Carolina: VP Kamala Harris visits NC, defends reproductive rights 1 year after overturning of Roe v Wade Spectrum News 1: VP Kamala Harris visiting N.C. to mark one year since Roe v. Wade overturned The Messenger: Inside the White House's State-Level Abortion Rights Push
  