
    Yesterday, President Biden announced a historic Bipartisan Infrastructure Framework that will make life better for millions of Americans, create a generation of good-paying union jobs and spur economic growth. It's an exciting demonstration that we can come together to deliver progress for the American people.
Unions, economists, community leaders, and state, local, and federal elected officials of both parties continue to thank President Biden and the senators who co-wrote the proposal for their collaboration and commitment to delivering for families and communities across the country.
See below for what they are saying:
Unions
International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers (IBEW): "Today's announcement of the Bipartisan Infrastructure Framework represents a historic investment in our economy and is a vital step forward in meeting President Biden's Build Back Better vision.
This deal isn't just an investment in critical infrastructure like roads and bridges. It will modernize our electrical grid, building thousands of miles of new transmission lines. It infuses more than $14 billion into the electric vehicle industry, paired with a 500,000 electric vehicle charging network to fuel them, that will put tens of thousands of IBEW electricians on the job. This framework will also be the biggest federal investment in public transit and passenger rail in history.
But most importantly for the members of the IBEW and working people everywhere, it is imperative that this framework becomes an investment in good-paying, blue-collar union jobs. To make this a reality, the IBEW stands ready to work with members of Congress to ensure that this investment is coupled with strong labor protections that build worker power and protect the standards that create and sustain good-paying union jobs. Only then can we meet this moment to achieve President Biden's promise to rebuild America's middle class.
I want to commend President Biden and lawmakers from both parties who were able to cross the aisle and work together to craft a framework that will ensure our economy remains competitive and on the cutting edge of the 21st century. The men and women of the IBEW are ready to get to work building our economy back better." [Statement, 6/25/21]
United Steelworkers (USW) International President Tom Conway: "Yesterday's compromise gets us closer than ever to enacting a historic infrastructure program. After so many years of inaction from the White House, it is a welcome relief that the Biden administration is clearly committed to getting this done, but there is much more work to do before we can celebrate. This agreement is just one piece of what we hope will be a many-faceted approach to rebuilding our nation. Infrastructure is more than just iron pipes, steel beams and cement blocks. It's the teachers who educate our children and it's the nurses who care for our aging parents. The final plans Congress approves must take a wider view of our national infrastructure than we have in the past so that we see lasting improvements in our quality of life for decades to come. The COVID-19 crisis should be a wake-up call for those in Congress who in the past have failed to look at infrastructure as a long-term, big-picture issue. The pandemic made it clear that we must invest heavily both in restoring our nation's manufacturing capacity and in keeping the American people safe. That means making sure we never have to look overseas for essential goods. It means training new generations of workers so we have Americans ready to make the products we need. And it means supporting union organizing so that we make sure the jobs we create are the kinds of jobs that can support families and communities." [Statement, 6/25/21]
North America's Building Trades Unions (NABTU) President Sean McGarvey: "The bipartisan infrastructure framework that the White House and key Senate Republicans and Democrats agreed to yesterday represents a significant step forward towards Building Back Better. This deal has the potential to play a vital role in generating family-sustaining, middle class careers for construction workers across America. We commend the Biden-Harris Administration and these committed lawmakers for putting politics aside and working together to craft this deal." [Statement, 6/25/21]
SMART (International Association of Sheet Metal, Air, Rail and Transportation Workers): "Today's announcement is an important breakthrough towards tackling our country's crumbling infrastructure. We look forward to continuing to work with Congress and the Biden administration to finalize this agreement and pass a broader package that encompasses all elements of the American Jobs Plan and American Families Plan. By working on these two packages simultaneously, we believe we will meet the needs of our country, create good paying union jobs, combat climate change, and revitalize the economy equitably.
We stand committed to fulfilling President Biden's mission of making our federal government a model employer by ensuring that every dollar allocated towards infrastructure complies with strong labor standards that guarantees good jobs and worker protections. This is an essential action the federal government must take to achieve a positive return on investment for taxpayers and our communities." [Statement, 6/25/21]
Business Groups
Association of Equipment Manufacturers (AEM) Senior Vice President of government and industry relations Kip Eideberg: "Equipment manufacturers applaud the steadfast leadership provided by President Biden, the G21 group of senators, and others closely involved in crafting the current bipartisan infrastructure framework. The Association of Equipment Manufacturers and the 2.8 million men and women of this industry have long called for a transformative investment in our nation's physical infrastructure so they can continue to build, feed, and power the world, and are pleased to see such important progress being announced today. However, the job is not done. Despite what skeptics say, we can and must get this deal all the way across the finish line in a bipartisan manner. Equipment manufacturers urge lawmakers, staff, stakeholders, and the American public to remain positive and focused on getting this generational bill passed and signed into law." [Statement, 6/25/21]
American Society of Civil Engineers (ASCE) President Jean Louis Briaud, PhD, P.E.: "The American Society of Civil Engineers (ASCE) is encouraged by today's bipartisan agreement on an infrastructure framework that includes over $550 billion in new investments to revitalize the nation's roads, transit systems, water infrastructure, and electric grid. These investments will help address our nation's ten-year, $2.59 trillion infrastructure funding gap that was identified in ASCE's 2021 Report Card for America's Infrastructure, which assigned our nation's infrastructure a grade of ‘C-' across 17 categories, most of which are addressed in this plan. Deteriorating infrastructure is costing each American household on average $3,300 per year if swift action is not taken. This bipartisan framework could mitigate those losses. American families and businesses are counting on Congress to work together to deliver safe roads and bridges, clean drinking water, reliable electricity, and climate-resilient communities.We commend this group of Senators for their leadership, and urge the full Congress to act quickly on the agreed upon framework and pass legislation next month." [Statement, 6/24/21]
American Soybean Association President Kevin Scott: "ASA has long championed many of the investments in this package, including ports, waterways, highways and bridges, and broadband. We are thankful to see these issues prioritized and that the plan avoids tax provisions that would negatively impact farmers and their families, such as drastic changes to stepped-up basis," said Kevin Scott, ASA president and soybean farmer from South Dakota." [Statement, 6/25/21]
Climate leaders
Third Way Executive Vice President for Policy Jim Kessler: "Many said a meaningful bipartisan package was impossible. Not to President Joe Biden and not to the bipartisan group of Senators led by Sens. Sinema and Portman who reached a historic deal on infrastructure that will create thousands of American jobs and bring us several critical steps closer to reaching our climate goals. The package includes investments that will bring new clean energy technologies to the market, modernize the power grid, connect more people to broadband, reduce emissions from fossil fuels, keep carbon-free nuclear power plants running, promote domestic battery production, cut energy use and costs for low-income households, and spur economic growth. President Biden promised he would work with both sides to get things done, get Americans back to work, and tackle some of the greatest crises we face. He is delivering, getting America vaccinated and back on its feet quickly. Now, this Administration and Congress are taking huge and vital steps to build back better. There is still much more work to be done. Congress must pass this bill, as well as a bold reconciliation bill that tackles additional pressing issues for workers, our economy, and the climate. But this is a vital step forward, and we look forward to this framework advancing alongside another bold bill." [Statement, 6/25/21]
Jesse Jenkins, Assistant Professor of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering and the Andlinger Center for Energy and the Environment, Princeton: "Today's big news: @POTUS & a bipartisan group of Senators have "struck a deal" on an infrastructure package. That has many asking, What does this mean for #cleanenergy & #climateaction? tl/dr: There's now a narrow path to victory..." [Tweet thread, 6/24/21]
House and Senate Members
House Majority Leader Steny Hoyer: "I'm pleased that President Biden and a bipartisan group of Senators announced an agreement today on an infrastructure package that will continue to spur economic growth and the creation of millions of new American jobs. I look forward to reviewing the full details of this agreement as we remain focused on repairing our nation's infrastructure and building the infrastructure of the future. This will ensure that Americans and American businesses can compete successfully in the twenty-first century global economy." [Statement, 6/24/21]
Florida Congressman Darren Soto: "Excited that ? @POTUS ? and @HouseDemocrats are coming together with Republicans, finding common ground, and getting ready to pass a bipartisan infrastructure deal! #AmericanJobsPlan" [Tweet, 6/25/21]
New Jersey Congressman Josh Gottheimer: "This deal will be a generation-defining initiative that will restore our nation's crumbling infrastructure." [Tweet, 6/25/21]
Oregon Congressman Peter DeFazio: "Today's bipartisan framework is a big step & shows a real willingness to get an infrastructure deal done. I look forward to bringing my surface transportation bill to the House floor next week to put bold plans in motion. It's time to get out of the 1950s." [Tweet, 6/25/21]
Ohio Senator Rob Portman: "Today we reached an historic, bipartisan agreement to responsibly upgrade & modernize our nation's infrastructure w/o raising taxes on American families. The President says he is on board. 20+ Senators are on board. Now let's work together to get this over the finish line." [Tweet, 6/25/21]
State and Local Leaders
National Association of Counties (NACo) Executive Director Matthew Chase: "We are encouraged that President Biden and lawmakers from both political parties are a step closer to addressing major infrastructure across America. The framework laid out in the bipartisan compromise on an infrastructure package would help counties rebuild our nation's infrastructure and economy.
Counties play a major role in maintaining critical infrastructure. We own 44 percent of the nation's road miles and nearly 40 percent of all bridges. We are also involved in the vast majority of public transportation systems and a third of all public airports.
Counties invest significant resources in infrastructure as we fulfill our responsibilities to keep our communities healthy, safe and vibrant. This infrastructure package includes much-needed investments in transportation, water and sewer, ports, resiliency, environmental stewardship and broadband.
We particularly commend the president and bipartisan group of lawmakers for ensuring the next infrastructure package will help to bridge the digital divide, which will increase our economic competitiveness and connect our residents. Broadband connectivity is more important than ever. Americans in every corner of the country rely on high-speed every day, including at work, school, at medical appointments and more.
With a focus on preparing our communities for the future, we thank President Biden and congressional partners for their leadership in addressing the country's infrastructure needs. We know today's compromise is not a final infrastructure package, and we look forward to working with the administration and bipartisan members of Congress to help craft this legislation. Together, we can achieve our shared goals, strengthening our nation's infrastructure, economy and resiliency for the future." [Statement, 6/25/21]
Michigan Governor Gretchen Whitmer: "My friend @GovLarryHogan said it best. This bipartisan agreement will help us fix the damn roads and make long term investments in our infrastructure. Let's get it done." [Tweet, 6/25/21]
Chairman Marshall Pierite, Tunica-Biloxi Tribe of Louisiana: "On behalf of the Tunica-Biloxi Tribe of Louisiana, I applaud President Biden and the bipartisan group of legislators for reaching an agreement on the largest infrastructure investment in our lifetimes. By finding common ground on the politics President Biden and congress are going to deliver real world results that will benefit every American, this will mean safe roads, cleaner energy and high speed internet in every home. The country, and Indian Country, will be stronger for generation because of this Administration's work today." [Facebook post, 6/25/21]
Governor Stephen Lewis, Gila River Indian Community of Arizona: "The Bipartisan Infrastructure Framework announced by President Biden has the potential to close the existing infrastructure deficits throughout Indian Country in the areas of transportation, broadband, water projects, and construction and rehabilitation of key tribal and federal governmental buildings. The Gila River Indian Community supports this inclusive, bipartisan effort to make sure tribal communities - as stewards of our natural resources, shudag (water) and lands - are a key partner in rebuilding the infrastructure of the United States."
Governor J. Michael Chavarria, Santa Clara Pueblo, Chairman of Eight Northern Indian Pueblo Council: "Santa Clara Pueblo applauds the President and Congress on reaching the Bipartisan Infrastructure Framework. There is a great need in Native communities for investments in clean drinking water, waste water, roads and other basic infrastructure. We look forward to working with the Administration and Congress on job opportunities in the Framework."
Chairwoman Cheryl Andrews-Maltais, Wampanoag Tribe of Gay Head Aquinnah: "We are so excited about the announcement of the Bipartisan Infrastructure Framework. Finally, it seems that both sides of the isle are sincerely trying to work together, to pass legislation that will benefit all Americans.
The American infrastructure has been in need of repairs, upgrades and modernization for decades. This plan will be the first significant investment in America in about a century. There hasn't been this ambitious of a plan, to provide badly needed repairs and infrastructure improvements, and most importantly, good paying jobs for Americans since the New Deal.
As a Tribal Leader, I'm also encouraged that our Tribal Nations are included in this investment in America, and, that we will have a seat at the table. Finally, Indian Country's needs of clean water, reliable transportation, new roads and bridges, sanitation facilities and waste water disposal, clean and renewable energy, highspeed internet and broadband connectivity will be part of the discussion. With this commitment to us, I am hopeful that we are seeing the United States trying to better fulfilling it trust and treaty obligations to all our Tribes.
I'd like to thank and applaud the Biden-Harris Administration and all the legislators, who rolled up their sleeves to hammer out a deal that we all can live with and benefit from. This is historic day in America's history and bright beacon of hope for our future. By finding common ground, together we will rebuild America, and build [it] back better than it was before. Thank you." [Statement, 6/25/21]
President Leonard Forsman, Affiliated Tribes of Northwest Indians Chairman: "The Affiliated Tribes of Northwest Indians (ATNI) congratulates Pres. Biden and members of the US Senate for an historic, bipartisan agreement on infrastructure. This investment in clean water, renewable energy, broadband, and other necessities means building back better in Indian Country and beyond. It means addressing the climate crisis and moving towards shared economic wellbeing. And, of great importance to the Pacific Northwest, we are hopeful that investments in wastewater infrastructure will help our efforts to protect our ancestral waterways, a top priority for those of us who rely on treaty fishing rights for sustenance and for our way of life. We also applaud the investments in climate resiliency, which is increasingly urgent as we face heat waves, drought, fires, and species extinctions resulting from the climate crisis. Together, these investments represent an historic step for Indian Country and for all who care about the wellbeing of future generations." [Tweet, 6/25/21]
President Whitney Gravelle, Bay Mills Indian Community of Michigan: "The COVID-19 pandemic shed light on the critical needs of Indian Country over the last year, including my own Tribal Nation. Bay Mills Indian Community is grateful for the bi-partisan commitment from our federal representatives with the Infrastructure Framework plan, which includes the largest investment in Indian Country in this Nation's history. We look forward to continuing the good work with this Administration. Together we will be able to build a better and brighter future, that meets the health, safety, welfare, and development needs of our tribal communities." [Statement, 6/25/21]
Rosebud Sioux Tribe: "At the Rosebud Sioux Tribe, we applaud President Biden's historic infrastructure agreement with Congress. America should work on a bipartisan basis on behalf of all Americans, including Native Americans. This is democracy in action-- the democracy that led the worldwide economic recovery after World War II, the computer revolution, the rise of the internet and the global economy. America has always been the world's economic leader, and President Biden is hard at work for America.
The infrastructure agreement includes the largest investments ever in clean drinking water, transit, and climate change remediation.
At Rosebud, our Lakota people have suffered endemic poverty, overcrowded housing, poor healthcare and devastating unemployment. We have the lowest life expectancy, poorest healthcare, and lowest income in America. President Biden has promised to include our economically disadvantaged Tribal communities in the nation's largest infrastructure package. Tribal governments need set-asides for:

transit;
clean drinking water;
electricity (including federal buy-back of green energy);
low income and moderate income housing and health care; and
efforts to save Grandmother Earth from climate change.

President Biden is making good on his promises to America, including Native America, and we thank him for his good work. We thank Congress for working with him to rebuild our Nation's crumbling infrastructure." [Statement, 6/25/21]
Vice-Chair Brandon Stevens, Oneida Nation of Wisconsin: "The Oneida Nation is pleased that President Biden and Congress has come to a bipartisan agreement on a historic $1.2 trillion infrastructure bill. Vice Chairman Stevens said "The Oneida Nation looks forward to upgrading our roads, and bridges, connecting our community to broadband, enhancing our community transit systems, water infrastructure, and more." [Tweet, 6/25/21]
Chief Executive/Chairwoman Melanie Benjamin, Mille Lacs Band of Ojibwe: "Indian country has suffered from either crumbling or non-existent infrastructure for far too long. For many tribal communities, today ushers in an era of not just building back better, but of building what never existed when it comes to safe roads, clean drinking water and the broadband access our tribal communities desperately need. This is unequivocal proof that President Biden and Vice President Harris are master negotiators who will continue to achieve bipartisan solutions to get America back to work. They don't work for a party – they work for America." [Statement, 6/25/21]
Councilman Alex Wesaw, Tribal Council, Pokagon Band of Potawatomi Indians (Michigan & Indiana): "After hearings today's news—I'm so hopeful that the Bipartisan Infrastructure Framework is the first, of many, steps to come in Washington to move beyond partisan politics and get back to getting things done for our country. Migw?tth (thank you), President Biden, for keeping your promise to find common ground and to get things done. Migw?tth also to the 11 Republican and 10 Democratic Senators that put our country first and worked hard to find common ground on the largest infrastructure investment in over a century! I am particularly excited to read about the Framework making the largest federal investment in passenger rail since Amtrak was created over 50 years ago. Midwest communities have been waiting far too long for consistent and reliable passenger rail options that will reduce pollution from vehicle usage and will be one mechanism to address our collective climate crisis." [Statement, 6/25/21]
Mayor Chokwe Antar Lumumba, Jackson, Mississippi: "Thank you, @POTUS. We are encouraged by today's historic infrastructure deal. @CityOfJxnMS stands hopeful and ready to get to work building the sustainable and equitable infrastructure that our residents deserve." [Tweet, 6/25/21]
Birmingham Mayor Randall Woodfin: Yesterday, @POTUS & @VP announced their support for the Bipartisan Infrastructure Framework. This historic investment in our country and people will create a generation of good-paying union jobs and support economic growth across the country. The framework invests in universal broadband, public transit, clean energy, clean drinking water, and repairs for even more roads and bridges…" [Tweet thread, 6/25/21]
Shreveport Mayor Adrian Perkins: "We need a modern plan of reconstruction that addresses systemic inequities disproportionately affecting Black Americans. I joined the mayors of Southern cities to outline the inequities in our communities and the urgent need for @POTUS #AmericanJobsPlan." [Tweet, 6/25/21]
Anthony Foxx, Former Mayor of Charlotte and Former U.S. Secretary for Department of Transportation: "Bravo. I look forward to hearing more details but well played Team Biden. When is the last time we had a President come out of the gate on infrastructure? So gutsy. Congrats @POTUS and @SecretaryPete!" [Tweet, 6/24/21]
  