
    The following listing includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the White House Press Office and not included elsewhere in this issue.
June 11
The President left Camp David, Md., for a fishing trip at Leetown, W. Va. While he was in Leetown, the President toured the National Fish Health Research Laboratory. He then returned to the White House.
The President participated in a briefing by administration officials on the Panama Canal treaties implementing legislation given for Members of the House of Representatives on the State Floor at the White House.
June 12
The President met at the White House with:
—Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs;
—Rev. Leon Sullivan;
—Frank B. Moore, Assistant to the President for Congressional Liaison;
—William J. Green, Democratic candidate for mayor of Philadelphia;
—Prime Minister Odvar Nordli of Norway and Vice President Walter F. Mondale;
—former Ambassador John J. McCloy. The President participated in a briefing by administration officials on the strategic arms limitation agreement given for civic and community leaders in the East Room at the White House.
The President has accorded the personal rank of Ambassador to William A. Hayne, Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for International Environmental Affairs, while he serves as head of the U.S. delegation to the diplomatic conference on the protection of migratory species being held in Bonn, Federal Republic of Germany.
June 13
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Mr. Moore;
—Stansfield Turner, Director of Central Intelligence, Hamilton Jordan, Assistant to the President, and Dr. Brzezinski;
—the Joint Chiefs of Staff;
—Vice President Mondale;
—Gen. Bernard W. Rogers, appointed as Supreme Allied Commander, Europe, and Commander in Chief of U.S. Forces in Europe.
The White House announced that President Carter has invited President elect Jaime Roldos of Ecuador to meet with him in July.
The President today announced that he will nominate Frederick H. Schultz, of Jacksonville, Fla., to be Vice Chairman of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. The President announced his intention to nominate Schultz as a member of the Board on April 12, 1979.
June 14
The President today declared a major disaster for the State of Texas as a result of severe storms and flooding, beginning on or about May 30, which caused ex-
tensive public and private property damage.
June 15
The President today declared a major disaster for the State of Kansas as a result of severe storms and flooding, beginning on or about June 7, which caused extensive public and private property damage.
  