
    Washington, DC – The White House today announced that Maria Cristina "MC" González Noguera will be joining the staff as Special Assistant to the President and Communications Director to the First Lady, replacing Kristina Schake who will be leaving the White House for a position in the private sector. Ms. Gonzalez will start in the East Wing in July.
Statement from Mrs. Obama:
"Kristina has been an essential and valued advisor to me over the past two and a half years. Her expertise in strategic planning and her creativity have been invaluable not just to me but to the entire Administration and I am truly grateful for her leadership and counsel. While she will be greatly missed at the White House, the impact of her work will be lasting."
"While Kristina leaves big shoes to fill, MC brings a fresh perspective and a wealth of expertise that will make her an incredible asset to our team. My time at the White House has been focused on ensuring all our children and families thrive, and as an experienced communications professional who shares my commitment to this mission, I know MC will be an outstanding partner."
Statement from Kristina Schake:
"It has been an honor to work for such a genuine and thoughtful leader," said Kristina Schake. "Mrs. Obama is improving the lives of children and families across the country, and she is doing it with her own signature sense of grace, compassion, exuberance and fun. It has been an extraordinary honor to have served the First Lady and the President."
Biography of MC González Noguera:
Maria Cristina González Noguera is an experienced communications executive currently serving as the Global Vice President, Corporate Communications, for the Estée Lauder Companies Inc. (ELC). Ms. González Noguera advises the Company's leadership team on strategic communications matters including government affairs, media relations, issues management, and employee engagement. During her tenure at ELC she has played a significant role in leading and integrating the Company's extensive corporate responsibility initiatives. Prior to joining ELC, Ms. González Noguera was a Managing Director for the Washington, D.C., strategic communications firm Chlopak, Leonard, Schechter & Associates (CLS). A native of San Juan, Puerto Rico, Ms. González Noguera is a graduate of Tufts University. She is married and has a one-year-old son.
  