
    Conference Will Explore Initiative's Impact Aiding Millions In Partnership With Nonprofit Sector
On June 26 and 27, President George W. Bush will deliver remarks at the White House Office of Faith-Based and Community Initiatives (OFBCI) "Innovations in Effective Compassion" National Conference in Washington, D.C. Attended by members of the President's Cabinet, OFBCI Director Jay Hein, and more than 1,000 public and private-sector leaders, the Conference will explore and expand the ways the Faith-Based and Community Initiative is transforming government's approach to human need, in partnership with faith-based and community organizations, to solve problems from addiction and homelessness to malaria and HIV/AIDS.
Conference Agenda: Thursday, June 26, 2008
8:30 – 8:55 Welcome and Introduction
The Honorable Jedd Medefind, Special Assistant to the President and Deputy Director White House Office of Faith-Based and Community Initiatives
The Honorable Jay Hein, Deputy Assistant to the President and Director White House Office of Faith-Based and Community Initiatives
8:55 – 9:10 Victory of the Level Playing Field
The Honorable Michael B. Mukasey, Attorney General of the United States
9:10 – 9:25 Access to Recovery
The Honorable John P. Walters, Director
White House Office of National Drug Control Policy
9:25 – 9:40 Administration Homelessness Efforts Through Faith-Based and Community Organizations
The Honorable Steve Preston, Secretary of Housing and Urban Development
9:40 – 9:55 Prisoner Reentry Initiative
The Honorable Elaine L. Chao, Secretary of Labor
12:00 – 1:00 Luncheon: The Faith-Based and Community Initiative Vision Applied Internationally
The Honorable Ed Schafer, Secretary of Agriculture
Ambassador Mark R. Dybul, U.S. Global AIDS Coordinator
1:00 – 1:45 Keynote Remarks
President George W. Bush
Conference Agenda: Friday, June 27, 2008
8:30 – 8:50 Welcome and Introduction
The Honorable Jay Hein, Deputy Assistant to the President and Director
White House Office of Faith-Based and Community Initiatives
The Honorable Joseph Lieberman, United States Senator (Connecticut)
8:50 – 9:10 Social Entrepreneurism and the Future of American Compassion
The Honorable Stephen Goldsmith
Chairman, Corporation for National and Community Service, and Former Mayor, Indianapolis, Indiana
David Eisner, CEO, Corporation for National and Community Service
1:00 – 1:45 Luncheon Keynote
The Honorable Felix P. Camacho, Governor of Guam
Innovations In Effective Compassion Panels (Friday Morning)
The Faith-Based and Community Initiative has championed the same kinds of innovation within government that are modeled by the social entrepreneurs it supports outside of government. New partnership models, technologies, and other tools invented to expand collaboration between government and front-line service organizations represent both major progress and ongoing experimentation.
9:10 – 9:50 Panel I: Enlisting Social Entrepreneurship for Service Delivery

Participants: Brent Orrell, Deputy Assistant Secretary for Employment and Training, U.S. Department of Labor, Moderator


Lisa Johnson, Skill Development Manager, Missouri Department of Economic Development
Bruce Wilkinson, Senior Vice President, International Programs, World Vision



9:50 – 10:30 Panel II: Extending the Work of Social Entrepreneurs

Participants: Brent Orrell, Deputy Assistant Secretary for Employment and Training, U.S. Department of Labor, Moderator


Reverend Danny Cortés, Senior Vice President and Chief of Staff, Esperanza
Governor Scott McCallum, President and CEO, Aidmatrix Foundation
Fred Davie, President, Public/Private Ventures



10:40 – 11:20 Panel III: Engaging Social Entrepreneurs through Vouchers and other Choice Mechanisms

Participants: Jedd Medefind, Special Assistant to the President and Deputy Director
  White House Office of Faith-Based and Community Initiatives, Moderator



Virginia Walden Ford, Executive Director, D.C. Parents for School Choice
Karri Schultheis, Project Director, Arizona Women's Education and Employment, Inc.
Dr. Thomas A. Kirk, Commissioner, Connecticut Department of Mental Health and Addiction Services


The Future Of Innovation Panels (Friday Afternoon)
Research indicates that since its launch in 2001, the Faith-Based and Community Initiative has made tremendous progress. The years ahead carry rich opportunities for those ready to build upon this work – particularly in efforts to identify, partner with, and extend the reach of frontline social entrepreneurs working in faith-based charities, community groups, and other settings. Today, these innovations are happening in States through bipartisan efforts to create multi-sector partnerships that draw upon the unique strengths of faith-based and other community organizations.
1:45 – 2:30 Panel I: The Future of Innovation & Research Regarding America's Social Entrepreneurs

Participants: The Honorable Karl Zinsmeister, Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy, Moderator
Byron Johnson, Professor of Sociology, and Director, Institute for Studies of Religion, Baylor University
Richard Nathan, Co-Director, Rockefeller Institute of Government
Bill Galston, Senior Fellow, Brookings Institution

2:30 – 3:25 Panel II: The Future of Innovation in Community Partnerships

Participants: Jedd Medefind, Special Assistant to the President and Deputy Director
  White House Office of Faith-Based and Community Initiatives, Moderator
Jannah Scott, Policy Advisor for Faith-Based and Community Initiatives for the Office of Governor Janet Napolitano
Steve Wing, Director, Workforce Initiatives, CVS Corporation
Hal Roark, Executive Director, The Broadmoor Development Corporation
Scott Merriner, Co-Chair, Governor's Advisory Council on Faith-Based & Community Initiatives, Alaska

  