
    Robert Cramer Balfe, III, of Arkansas, to be United States Attorney for the Western District of Arkansas for the term of four years, vice Thomas C. Gean, resigned.
Carin M. Barth, of Texas, to be Chief Financial Officer, Department of Housing and Urban Development, vice Angela Antonelli.
Herman Belz, of Maryland, to be a Member of the National Council on the Humanities for a term expiring January 26, 2010, vice Linda Lee Aaker, term expired.
Peter Cyril Wyche Flory, of Virginia, to be an Assistant Secretary of Defense, vice Jack Dyer Crouch, II.
Craig Haffner, of California, to be a Member of the National Council on the Humanities for a term expiring January 26, 2010, vice Michael Pack, term expired.
John H. Hager, of Virginia, to be Assistant Secretary for Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Department of Education, vice Robert Pasternack.
James Davidson Hunter, of Virginia, to be a Member of the National Council on the Humanities for a term expiring January 26, 2010, vice Edward L. Ayers, term expired.
Tamar Jacoby, of New Jersey, to be a Member of the National Council on the Humanities for a term expiring January 26, 2010, vice Pedro G. Castillo, term expired.
Harvey Klehr, of Georgia, to be a Member of the National Council on the Humanities for a term expiring January 26, 2010, vice Theodore William Striggles, term expired.
Thomas K. Lindsay, of Texas, to be a Member of the National Council on the Humanities for a term expiring January 26, 2010, vice Ira Berlin, term expired.
Iris Love, of Vermont, to be a Member of the National Council on the Humanities for a term expiring January 26, 2010, vice Evelyn Edson, term expired.
Thomas Mallon, of Connecticut, to be a Member of the National Council on the Humanities for a term expiring January 26, 2010. (Reappointment)
David E. Nahmias, of Georgia, to be United States Attorney for the Northern District of Georgia for the term of four years, vice William S. Duffey, Jr.
Ricardo Quinones, of California, to be a Member of the National Council on the Humanities for a term expiring January 26, 2010, vice Amy Apfel Kass, term expired.
William Sanchez, of Florida, to be Special Counsel for Immigration-Related Unfair Employment Practices for a term of four years, vice Juan Carlos Benitez, resigned.
Veronica Vargas Stidvent, of Texas, to be an Assistant Secretary of Labor, vice Chris Spear, resigned.
  