
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

The history of the flag of the United States presents in capsule form the history of our Nation. Although there was a great variety of colorful and interesting flags during the Colonial period, it was not until June 14, 1777, two years after the Battle of Bunker Hill, that the delegates at the Continental Congress adopted the familiar design we know today. They voted "that the flag of the thirteen United States be thirteen stripes, alternate red and white; that the union be thirteen stars, white in a blue field representing a new constellation."
Since 1777, the flag of our Nation has been redesigned periodically to reflect the admission of new States. It has flown over our public buildings, our town squares, and many private homes. It has been carried proudly into battle, and our national anthem gives a dramatic account of the hope and inspiration it has given to many Americans. Today, it is the leading symbol of the Nation we love and an emblem recognized around the world as a sign of our unity and devotion to freedom.
To commemorate the adoption of our flag, the Congress, by a joint resolution approved August 3, 1949 (63 Stat. 492), designated June 14 of each year as Flag Day and requested the President to issue an annual proclamation calling for its observance and the display of the flag of the United States on all government buildings. The Congress also requested the President, by a joint resolution of June 9, 1966 (80 Stat. 194), to issue annually a proclamation designating the week in which June 14 occurs as National Flag Week and calling upon all citizens of the United States to display the flag during that week.
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim June 14, 1985, as Flag Day and the week beginning June 9, 1985, as National Flag Week, and I direct the appropriate officials of the government to display the flag on all government buildings during that week. I urge all Americans to observe Flag Day, June 14, and Flag Week by flying the Stars and Stripes from their homes and other suitable places.
I also urge the American people to celebrate those days from Flag Day through Independence Day, set aside by Congress as a time to honor America (89 Stat. 211), by having public gatherings and activities at which they can honor their country in an appropriate manner.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this 14th day of June, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-five, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and ninth.

RONALD REAGAN
  