
    STATEMENT OF ADMINISTRATION POLICY
(House Floor)(Sponsors:  Obey (D), Wisconsin; Carr (D), Michigan)
This Statement of Administration Policy expresses the Administration's views on H.R. 4556, the Department of Transportation and Related Agencies Appropriations Bill, FY 1995, as reported by the House Appropriations Committee. The Administration supports House passage of H.R. 4556 and will work with the House to address the concerns described below.
President's Investment Initiatives 
The Administration supports the Committee's action that funds a portion of the next generation high-speed rail investment proposal. The Administration objects, however, to the reduction in funding for Federal-aid highways and mass transit. Specifically, the House is urged to fund the core highway programs of the Intermodal Surface Transportation Efficiency Act at a level closer to the authorization.
Increased funding for the investment proposals could be achieved through a reallocation of resources from lower-priority or unrequested programs in the Committee bill. In particular, the House is urged to shift funds from Transit New Starts to Formula Capital Grants in order to fund a greater portion of the transit investment proposal.
Earmarkings
The Administration objects to the significant amount of earmarkings in the bill. Specifically, earmarkings in the FAA Airport Improvement Program, Mass Transit Discretionary Grants, and add-on funding for place-specific highway projects would constrain the Department's efforts to ensure that scarce resources are allocated on a cost-effective and equitable basis. The Administration urges the House to eliminate these provisions.
Other Issues
The Administration urges the House to restore the 10-percent transit set-aside for congestion relief. Targeting a portion of the increase in transit formula grants specifically to projects that reduce congestion would focus attention on using transit as a demand management tool for congested highways.
The Administration understands that an amendment may be offered on the floor to reduce funding for Amtrak. The Committee bill already reduces Amtrak funding below the request, and the Administration urges the House to avoid additional cuts to Amtrak.
The Administration also understands that an amendment may be offered on the floor to substantially reduce or terminate funding for the Interstate Commerce Commission (ICC). The Administration would oppose such an amendment.
  