
    I.
At the invitation of the President of the Council of State of the Polish People's Republic, Mr. Henryk Jablonski, and the Chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Piotr Jaroszewicz--the President of the United States, Mr. Richard Nixon, and Mrs. Nixon paid an official visit to Poland on May 31 and June 1.
On the first day of the visit, the First Secretary, of the Central Committee of the Polish United Workers' Party, Eduard Gierek, conducted talks with President Nixon.
On June 1, President Nixon called on the President of the Council of State Henryk Jablonski and had talks with him.
On the second day of the visit talks were held between First Secretary of the Central Committee of the Polish United Workers' Party Eduard Gierek, Chairman of the Council of Ministers Piotr Jaroszewicz, and President Nixon.
The following participated in the talks:on the American side:Secretary of State William P. Rogers Ambassador of the United States Walter J. Stoessel, Jr.Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs Dr. Henry KissingerAssistant Secretary of State for European Affairs Martin J. Hillenbrandon the Polish side:Vice Premier and Chairman of the Planning Commission Mieczyslaw JagielskiForeign Minister Stefan OlszowskiSecretary of the Central Committee of the PUWP Franciszek SzlachcicSecretary of the Central Committee of the PUWP Jan SzydlakAmbassador of Poland Witold TrampczynskiMinister of Science, Higher Education and Technology Jan KaczmarekMinister of Foreign Trade Tadeusz OlechowskiDeputy Chairman of the Planning Commission Henryk KisielVice Minister of Foreign Affairs Romuald SpasowskiGovernment Spokesman Undersecretary of State Wlodzimierz Janiurek
Talks were also held between Secretary of State William P. Rogers and Minister of Foreign Affairs Stefan Olszowski
During the talks, the two sides had a useful exchange of views on international questions of particular interest to them and discussed the most important subjects in the field of bilateral relations.
The talks were frank, businesslike and constructive. They were conducted in an atmosphere marked by a desire to better understand each other's position, and to expand and deepen mutual relations.
President and Mrs. Nixon expressed their warm appreciation for the hospitality they enjoyed in Poland. The President of the United States invited the First Secretary of the Central Committee of the Polish United Workers' Party, Mr. Eduard Gierek, the President of the Council of State, Mr. Henryk Jablonski, and the Prime Minister, Mr. Piotr Jaroszewicz, to visit the United States at a time convenient to both sides. The invitation was accepted with pleasure.
II.
1. Both sides agreed that the development of peaceful cooperation among states must be based on the principles of territorial integrity and inviolability of frontiers, non-interference in internal affairs, sovereign equality, independence and renunciation of the use or threat of use of force.
2. Both sides presented their views on the situation in Europe. They affirmed that the broadening of relations between all states interested in European security is of outstanding importance for world peace. Both sides welcomed the expansion of cooperation in Europe in all fields and expressed their belief that true security is indivisible and can be attained only if Europe is considered as a whole. The relations between the United States and Poland, based on sovereign equality and mutual respect, contribute to peace and stability in Europe and to the favorable development of the overall international situation.
3. Both sides welcomed the treaty between Poland and the Federal Republic of Germany signed on December 7, 1970, including its border provisions. They noted the significance of the provisions of this treaty as well as of other recent agreements in contributing to confidence and cooperation among the European states.
4. Both sides agreed that a reciprocal reduction of armed forces and armaments, first of all in Central Europe, would contribute to the goal of ensuring security and stability in Europe. Any agreement reached on this matter should not diminish the security of any of the sides. The two sides agreed that the states concerned should reach appropriate agreement as soon as practicable on procedures for negotiations on this question in a special forum. Reduction of armed forces and armaments in Central Europe would be an important step toward attaining the objective of general and complete disarmament.
5. Both sides expressed the belief that a European Conference on Security and Cooperation may constitute an important step forward in the extensive and long-range process of the normalization of relations and detente in Europe. They agreed that the Conference should be carefully prepared, and that multilateral consultations in that regard should begin without undue delay. The two sides declared their readiness to cooperate to achieve this aim.
6. Both sides presented their known positions on the war in Vietnam and the situation in Indochina. Essential views of the two sides in this question remained divergent.
III.
1. Both sides noted with satisfaction the increasing commercial and other economic ties between the two countries and concluded that there are considerable possibilities for their further expansion. With this in mind the two sides discussed issues related to commercial exchange and financial and credit matters.
The Polish side indicated an interest in increased purchases of capital goods, licenses and technology in the United S rates.
The U.S. side undertook to consider in a constructive manner further steps leading to increased bilateral trade and economic cooperation.
2. The two sides will exchange information leading to expanded trade relations. In the interest of broadening and facilitating trade relations between the two countries and working out concrete steps towards that end the two sides decided to create a joint Polish-American Trade Commission.
3. The two sides will encourage and support contacts and cooperation between economic organizations and enterprises of both countries.
4. The two sides expressed their satisfaction with the expanding program of scientific and technical cooperation and appraised positively its mutually advantageous results. Last year's exchange of visits at the cabinet level, which gave attention to the development of scientific and technical cooperation, confirmed the desirability of continuing cooperation in this field.
The two sides expressed their interest in the conclusion of an intergovernmental agreement on comprehensive cooperation in science, technology and culture. Appropriate institutional arrangements will be established to promote work in these fields.
5. The two sides agreed that the increase of mutual economic and personal contacts, including tourism, justifies further development of transportation links between Poland and the United States by sea as well as by air. The two sides expect to sign in the near future an air transport agreement and to establish mutual and regular air connections.
6. The two sides expressed their interest in commemorating the five hundredth anniversary of the birth of Nicholas Copernicus and discussed ways of celebrating it.
7. Both sides welcomed the signing of the Consular Convention by Secretary of State William P. Rogers and Minister of Foreign Affairs Stefan Olszowski and the conclusion of an agreement on the simultaneous establishment on December 1, 1972 of new Consulates--in New York and Krakow, respectively. Both parties welcome these steps as concrete evidence of expanding relations between the two states.
8. The two sides emphasized the positive influence exerted on their mutual relations by the traditions of history, sentiment and friendship between the Polish and American peoples. A prominent part is played in this respect by many United States citizens of Polish extraction who maintain an interest in the country of their ancestors. The two sides recognize that this interest and contacts resulting from it constitute a valuable contribution to the development of bilateral relations.
Signed in Warsaw, June 1, 1972.
  