
    President George W. Bush today nominated five individuals to serve in his Administration.
The President has nominated Paul R. Brubaker, of Virginia, to be Administrator of the Research and Innovative Technology Administration at the Department of Transportation. Mr. Brubaker currently serves as Chairman and CEO of Procentrix, Inc. Prior to this, he served as Executive Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer of SI International. Earlier in his career, he served as Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense (Deputy Chief Information Officer). Mr. Brubaker received his bachelor's degree from Youngstown State University and his master's degree from Kent State University.
The President has nominated Nancy Goodman Brinker, of Florida, to be Chief of Protocol at the Department of State, and to have the rank of Ambassador during her tenure of service. Ms. Brinker currently serves as Founding Chair of the Susan G. Komen For The Cure, which was founded in 1982. Prior to this, she served as Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Hungary. Earlier in her career, she served on the National Cancer Advisory Board and the President's Cancer Panel. Ms. Brinker received her bachelor's degree from the University of Illinois.
The President has nominated David W. James, of Missouri, to be Assistant Secretary of Labor (Public Affairs). Mr. James currently serves as Press Secretary at the Department of Labor. Prior to this, he served as Regional Press Secretary at the Republican National Committee. Earlier in his career, he served as Executive Director of the Missouri Republican Party - Victory 2002. Mr. James received his bachelor's degree from DePauw University.
The President has nominated Steven H. Murdock, of Texas, to be Director of the Census at the Department of Commerce. Dr. Murdock currently serves as a Professor and holds the Lutcher Brown Distinguished Chair in Demography at the University of Texas at San Antonio. He also currently serves as the State Demographer of Texas. Prior to this, he served as Regents Professor in the Department of Rural Sociology at Texas A&M University. Dr. Murdock received his bachelor's degree from North Dakota State University, and his master's degree and PhD from the University of Kentucky.
The President has nominated Eunice S. Reddick, of New York, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Gabonese Republic and the Democratic Republic of Sao Tome and Principe. Ms. Reddick, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, currently serves as Country Director of the Office of East African Affairs in the Bureau of African Affairs at the Department of State. Prior to this, she served as Director of the Office of Philippines, Malaysia, Brunei, and Singapore Affairs at the Bureau of East Asian and Pacific Affairs at the Department of State. Earlier in her career, she served as Counselor for Political Affairs at the American Institute in Taiwan. Ms. Reddick received her bachelor's degree from New York University and her master's degree from Columbia University.
  