
    by Elizabeth Santorum
Yesterday was a big day in the Santorum household. After long months of discernment, my father has decided to run for president of the United States of America. This morning, as I drove my sister Sarah Maria to school, she looked over at me and said, "Wow. I think I'm still absorbing how important yesterday was!" I had to agree.
So, I'll give a recap of yesterdays "behind the scenes" excitement. My Dad spent the morning doing radio and television interviews, while my Mom and I got all six of my siblings ready to go. As you can imagine, getting everyone ready is never an easy task. From "Oh no, did you pack the hairbrush?" to "Patrick, those had better not be grass stains on your khakis," let's just say that we averted several minor crises. Bella is often the easiest to get ready because she always looks adorable in whatever she's wearing. Her sweet smile and peaceful demeanor are a constant source of joy for our family.
Onceat the Somerset Courthouse, many friends, old and new, greeted us. The Courthouse is beautiful! You can see its regal dome from the turnpike as you pass the Somerset exit. Before taking the stage, my Father led our family in prayer in a quiet room in the courthouse. After that, we were ready to go. The crowd of hundreds of people was overwhelmingly enthusiastic and supportive. My Mom introduced my Dad, sharing with the crowd the love and respect she has for her husband of 21 years. Then, my Dad stepped up to the podium. The energy was kinetic, nearly tangible. It was living proof that what my Dad so wisely says is true: "In 2008 America was looking for a president that they could believe in. Now, Americans want a president who believes in them." Yesterday, my Dad showed that he believes in America and in her people. So, here we go. We are out of the gates and into the race … and what a crazy journey it will be!
Everything could not have gone better and, as a family, the Santorums send a huge thank you to everyone who worked so hard to make this day possible and to everyone who continues to support us along our journey. God bless you.
To close, I echo the words of Ronald Reagan from his own presidential announcement speech over thirty years ago … "A troubled and afflicted mankind looks to us, pleading for us to keep our rendezvous with destiny; that we will uphold the principles of self-reliance, self-discipline, morality, and--above all--responsible liberty for every individual that we will become that shining city on a hill. I believe that you and I together can keep this rendezvous with destiny." Our time is not unlike his. Freedom is once again in jeopardy. Now, my Dad calls upon Americans to rise again, to keep our own "rendezvous with destiny." For as someone once said, great moments are born of great opportunity. Now, as a nation, we are given a great opportunity, which I am sure will be turned into a great moment in our history.
  