
    Your Majesty, Your Royal Highnesses, Your Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen:
Once again, it has been my great privilege and pleasure to meet with Your Majesty, as well as with Crown Prince Khalid and other members of the Saudi Arabian Government.
Our talks have been constructive and far-reaching, covering problems on the whole world. We have particularly directed our attention to, and have reviewed in detail, the momentous changes that are occurring in this area of the world, the Middle East.
While we both recognize that important steps have already been taken on the long road to permanent peace in this area, there is much that remains to be done in reaching our goal.
And the United States intends to persevere in its active efforts to achieve this difficult but great goal of a permanent and equitable and just peace in this area, and essential elements in the search for peace are the fundamental developments we are witnessing in American relations with Saudi Arabia and with other nations in the Arab world.
The American and Arab nations are rapidly moving into an era of close cooperation and interdependence, an era unprecedented in the long history of our relationships. It is entirely fitting that one of the first manifestations of this new era should come in the relationships between Saudi Arabia and the United States, the two nations that have been closely bound by ties of friendship for more than three decades.
In exploring avenues of cooperation, His Majesty and I have focused, in particular, on the work of the joint commissions which were agreed to a week ago during the visit of His Royal Highness Prince Fahd and other senior Saudi ministers to Washington. These commissions and the goals they represent hold rich promise for the future of Saudi Arabia and for the future of the entire Mideast.
And, Your Majesty, the United States intends to be Saudi Arabia's active and constructive partner in insuring the success of these goals.
His Majesty and I have also reviewed the efforts by the United States to assist Saudi Arabia in maintaining its defense forces. Our two nations are totally dedicated to peace. But to achieve that goal in this area, Saudi Arabia must have a level of security that is consistent with its role as a leader in this part of the world. If Saudi Arabia is strong and secure, as it will be, we will enhance the prospects for peace anti stability throughout the Middle East and, in turn, throughout the world.
As we conclude these talks after having met on several occasions before, I would say that today American ties with Saudi Arabia have never been stronger and have never more solidly been based than they are now. We have long been good friends, and our friendship which now develops into an active partnership will be further strengthened through active cooperation between us in the areas that I have described.
And, Your Majesty, on behalf of all of the Americans traveling with me, I would like to express our grateful appreciation to you for the very generous hospitality you have extended to us and also to express appreciation to you for the gestures of hospitality and the counsel you have provided for Secretary Kissinger during his visits to your nation.
And personally, I look forward to meeting you again when you next can plan a trip to the United States. I can assure you of a warm and friendly reception.
  