
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate six individuals, designate four individuals and appoint four individuals to serve in his administration:
The President intends to nominate John C. Danforth, of Missouri, to be Representative of the United States to the United Nations with the rank of Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary; and to be United States Representative in the Security Council of the United Nations; and to be Representative of the United States of America to the Sessions of the General Assembly of the United Nations during his tenure of service as Representative of the United States to the United Nations. Senator Danforth currently serves as a partner with Bryan Cave LLP in St. Louis, Missouri. Since 2001, Senator Danforth also has been the President's Special Envoy for Peace in Sudan. He previously served as a member of the United States Senate for eighteen years. Earlier in his career, Senator Danforth served as the Attorney General of Missouri. He earned his bachelor's degree from Princeton University and his J.D. from Yale University.
The President intends to nominate Douglas L. McElhaney, of Florida, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Bosnia and Herzegovina. A career member of the Senior Foreign Service, Mr. McElhaney most recently served as Consul General in Milan, Italy. He previously served as Deputy Chief of Mission and Charge d'Affaires in Paris, France. Prior to this position, Mr. McElhaney served as Deputy Permanent Representative in the United States Mission to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. He earned his bachelor's degree from the University of Michigan and his master's degree from Columbia University.
The President intends to nominate Aldona Wos, of North Carolina, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Estonia. Dr. Wos currently serves on the United States Holocaust Memorial Council. In addition, she also serves as a member of the United Way of Greater Greensboro Board of Directors. Earlier in her career, Dr. Wos served as a consultant for The Port Authority of New York and New Jersey and maintained a private medical practice for eight years in New York, New York. She earned her M.D. from the Warsaw Medical Academy.
The President intends to nominate Luis Luna, of Maryland, to be an Assistant Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency (Administration and Resource Management). Mr. Luna currently serves as Deputy Administrator in the Department of Agriculture's Rural Development Office of Community Development. He previously served as Executive Director of the Greater Salisbury Committee, a non-profit coalition of business leaders in Maryland. He earned his bachelor's degree from the University of Maryland and his J.D. from Georgetown University.
The President intends to designate Stephen Koplan, of Virginia, to be Chairman of the United States International Trade Commission for a two-year term expiring June 16, 2006. Commissioner Koplan currently serves as a Commissioner of the United States International Trade Commission, where he previously served as Chairman. Earlier in his career, he served as Director for Governmental and Conservation Affairs of Safari Club International. Commissioner Koplan earned his bachelor's degree from Brandeis University, his J.D. from Boston University and his master's from New York University.
The President intends to designate Deanna Tanner Okun, of Idaho, to be Vice Chairman of the United States International Trade Commission for a two-year term expiring June 16, 2006. Ms. Okun currently serves as Chairman of the United States International Trade Commission, where she previously served as Vice Chairman. Earlier in her career, she served as Counsel for International Affairs to Senator Frank Murkowski. Ms. Okun earned her bachelor's degree from Utah State University and her J.D. from Duke University.
The President intends to nominate the following individuals to be Members of the Board of Directors of the Millennium Challenge Corporation for a three-year term:
Kenneth Francis Hackett of Maryland, recommendation of the Minority Leader of the Senate
Christine Todd Whitman of New Jersey, recommendation of the Majority Leader of the Senate
The President intends to designate Thomas Dunne, of Maryland, to be Acting Assistant Administrator of the Environment Protection Agency, Office of Solid Waste.
The President intends to appoint Reggie B. Walton, of the District of Columbia, to be Chairman of the National Prison Rape Reduction Commission.
The President intends to designate Mary Ann Melody Larson McDonald, of California, to be Chairman of the Advisory Committee to the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation.
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the Advisory Committee to the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, for the remainder of a three-year term expiring February 19, 2007:
Thomas M. Garrott of Tennessee (Employer Representative)
Betty S. Ireland of West Virginia (Employer Representative)
James E. Nevels of Pennsylvania (Public Representative)
  