
    The President today announced his intention to appoint the following individuals to be members of the Commission on the Bicentennial of the United States Constitution. The President also intends to designate Chief Justice Warren E. Burger as Chairman, who is a member by law.
Frederick K. Biebel is executive vice president and treasurer of the International Republican Cooperation Fund in Washington, DC. He was born April 5, 1926, in Bridgeport, CT, and now resides in Stratford, CT.
Betty Southard Murphy is partner in the law firm of Baker & Hostetler in Washington, DC. She was born March 1, 1928, in East Orange, NJ, and now resides in Alexandria, VA.
Phyllis Schlafly is president of Eagle Forum in Washington, DC. She was born August 15, 1924, in St. Louis, MO, and now resides in Alton, IL.
Bernard H. Siegan is distinguished professor of law at the University of San Diego. He was born July 28, 1924, in Chicago, IL, and now resides in La Jolla, CA.
Ronald H. Walker is managing director and partner of Korn/Ferry International in Washington, DC. He was born July 25, 1937, in Bryan, TX, and now resides in Potomac, MD.
Charles Alan Wright is professor of law at the University of Texas at Austin. He was born September 3, 1927, in Philadelphia, PA, and now resides in Austin, TX.
Upon the recommendation of Warren E. Burger, Chief Justice of the United States:
Herbert Brownell is currently of counsel with the law firm of Lord, Day and Lord in New York City. He was born February 20, 1904, in Peru, NE, and now resides in New York City.
Cornelia G. Kennedy is currently U.S. Circuit Judge for the Sixth Circuit. She was born August 4, 1923, in Detroit, MI, and now resides in Grosse Pointe Woods, MI.
Obert Clark Tanner is founder and chairman of the board of OC Tanner & Co. He was born September 20, 1904, in Farmington, UT, and now resides in Salt Lake City, UT.
Charles Edward Wiggins is currently U.S. Circuit Judge for the Ninth Circuit. He was born December 3, 1927, in El Monte, CA, and now resides in San Francisco, CA.
Upon the recommendation of the President pro tempore of the Senate in consultation with the majority leader and minority leader of the Senate:
Harry McKinley Lightsey, Jr., is dean, University of South Carolina School of Law. He was born December 27, 1931, in Columbia, SC, and now resides in West Columbia, SC.
Edward P. Morgan is owner of the law firm of Welch & Morgan of Washington, DC. He was born May 28, 1913, in St. Louis, MO, and now resides in Bethesda, MD.
Theodore Fulton Stevens is a U.S. Senator for the State of Alaska. He was born November 18, 1923, in Indianapolis, IN, and now resides in Chevy Chase, MD.
Upon the recommendation of the Speaker of the House of Representatives, in consultation with the minority leader of the House of Representatives
Lynne Anne Vincent Cheney is currently senior editor of the Washingtonian magazine. She was born January 14, 1941, in Casper, WY, and now resides in Washington, DC.
Philip M. Crane is U.S. Representative for the 12th District of Illinois. He was born November 3, 1930, in Chicago, IL, and now resides in Washington, DC.
William Joseph Green is an attorney with the firm of Wolf, Block, Schorr & Solis-Cohen of Philadelphia. He was born June 6, 1938, in Philadelphia, PA, and still resides there.
Thomas Henry O'Connor is a professor of history at Boston College. He was born December 9, 1922, in Boston, MA, and resides in Braintree, MA.
  