
    NOMINATIONS SENT TO THE SENATE:
Brian Allen Benczkowski, of Virginia, to be an Assistant Attorney General, vice Leslie Ragon Caldwell.
David Steele Bohigian, of Missouri, to be Executive Vice President of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation, vice Mimi E. Alemayehou.
Steven Gill Bradbury, of Virginia, to be General Counsel of the Department of Transportation, vice Kathryn B. Thomson, resigned.
Annie Caputo, of Virginia, to be a Member of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission for the term of five years expiring June 30, 2022, vice William Charles Ostendorff, term expired.
Robert Charrow, of Maryland, to be General Counsel of the Department of Health and Human Services, vice William B. Schultz.
Carlos G. Muñiz, of Florida, to be General Counsel, Department of Education, vice James Cole, Jr.
Peter Louis Oppenheim, of Maryland, to be Assistant Secretary for Legislation and Congressional Affairs, Department of Education, vice Julius Lloyd Horwich.
Joseph Otting, of Nevada, to be Comptroller of the Currency for a term of five years, vice Thomas J. Curry, term expired.
Stephen Parente, of Minnesota, to be an Assistant Secretary of Health and Human Services, vice Richard G. Frank.
David P. Pekoske, of Maryland, to be an Assistant Secretary of Homeland Security, vice Peter V. Neffenger.
Richard V. Spencer, of Wyoming, to be Secretary of the Navy, vice Raymond Edwin Mabus, Jr.
Charles Douglas Stimson, of Virginia, to be General Counsel of the Department of the Navy, vice Paul Luis Oostburg Sanz.
Kristine L. Svinicki, of Virginia, to be a Member of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission for the term of five years expiring June 30, 2022. (Reappointment)
Elizabeth Erin Walsh, of the District of Columbia, to be Assistant Secretary of Commerce and Director General of the United States and Foreign Commercial Service, vice Arun Madhavan Kumar.
Ray Washburne, of Texas, to be President of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation, vice Elizabeth L. Littlefield.
Owen West, of Connecticut, to be an Assistant Secretary of Defense, vice Michael D. Lumpkin.
David Wright, of South Carolina, to be a Member of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission for the term of five years expiring June 30, 2020, vice Jeffery Martin Baran, resigned.
  