
    Moreno and James to Serve as Harris' State Campaign Co-Chairs
Senator Kamala Harris has earned her first endorsements in Louisiana, a critical early primary state, from New Orleans City Council President Helena Moreno and State Representative Ted James today. Louisiana's 2020 Democratic primary will be on Saturday, March 7, just four days after Super Tuesday. Fifty delegates will be up for grabs.
Moreno and James are pointing to Harris' commitment to help working families through policies like the LIFT Act and her recently released equal pay plan as reasons for their early support. Moreno is the first Latina to serve as New Orleans City Council President. The two will serve as Harris' campaign co-chairs for the state.
"Kamala Harris is just the type of bold, courageous leader our country needs and I couldn't be prouder to endorse her for President," said Moreno. "I'm inspired by Kamala's commitment to building coalitions and connections that unite us around priorities that America needs to work for all people, not the just the wealthy and well-connected. I look forward to helping elect the first woman president who is champion for paying teachers their worth, closing the gender pay gap and uplifting working class families."
"There is no better leader to unite our country at this time of paralyzing divisiveness than Kamala Harris," said James. "Kamala has spent the balance of her life fighting to ensure everyone has equal and adequate access to health care, fair wages and safe communities. Louisianans, and Americans across the country, can count on her to be their champion in the White House, and I'm proud to endorse her for President of the United States."
"I'm so proud to have the endorsement of Helena and Ted in this race," said Harris. 'They understand that when we lead with our values we move closer to a more perfect union. I look forward to working with them to build a better future for our children - that includes ensuring access to quality education, clean air and water and affordable healthcare. Louisiana will play a critical role in determining the nominee and I look forward to earning the support of Lousianan's across the state."
These endorsements come ahead of Senator Harris' southern campaign swing with stops in Alabama and South Carolina. Harris has been to Louisiana twice as a candidate and was last in New Orleans in April to speak to more than 10,000 members of Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority, Inc. at their South Central regional conference.
  