
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
June 20 [xi]1
The President announced his intention to appoint Jake Steinfeld as a member of the President's Council on Physical Fitness and Sports.
June 21
In the evening, the President and Hillary Clinton had dinner with Summit of the Eight leaders at the Fort Restaurant in Denver, CO. Later, they joined summit leaders for an evening of entertainment at the Western Event Complex.
June 22
In the afternoon, the President traveled to San Francisco, CA, arriving in the evening.
June 23
In the afternoon, the President traveled to Los Angeles, CA. While en route aboard Air Force One, he had a telephone conversation with the family of Betty Shabazz to offer his condolences regarding her death.
In the evening, the President attended a Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee dinner at the Beverly Hilton Hotel. Later, he returned to Washington, DC, arriving the following morning.
The President announced his intention to nominate Saul Ramirez, Jr., to serve as the Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development at the Department of Housing and Urban Development.
The President announced his intention to nominate Jamie Rappaport Clark as Director of the Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior.
June 24
The President announced his intention to nominate Ambassador Martin Indyk as the Assistant Secretary for Near Eastern Affairs at the State Department.
The President announced his intention to nominate Robert Orent and Larry Schumann as members of the President's National Security Telecommunications Advisory Committee.
The President appointed 11 men and 4 women from 10 States and the District of Columbia as 1997-1998 White House Fellows.
June 25
In the morning, the President traveled to Nashville, TN, and in the afternoon, he traveled to Chicago, IL. In the evening, the President and Hillary Clinton traveled to Hope, AR.
The President announced his intention to nominate Rudy F. de Leon to be the Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness.
The President announced his intention to nominate M.D.B. Carlisle and Darryl R.
Wold to serve as Commissioners on the Federal Election Commission.
June 26
In the afternoon, the President traveled to Texarkana, AR. Later, he traveled to New York City, NY.
In the evening, the President met with U.N. Secretary General Kofi Annan in Mr. Annan's office at the United Nations.
Later, the President met with President Kim Yong-sam of South Korea in the Conference Room at the United States Mission.
The White House announced that President Roman Herzog of Germany will meet with the President on July 24 to discuss social and political issues of importance to both the German and American peoples.
June 27
The President announced his intention to nominate David A. Lipton to be Under Secretary for International Affairs at the Department of the Treasury.
The President announced the nomination of Nancy Killefer as Assistant Secretary for Management and Chief Financial Officer at the Department of the Treasury.
The President announced the nomination of Gary Gensler to become Assistant Secretary for Financial Markets at the Department of the Treasury.
The President announced his intention to nominate Nancy-Ann Min Deparle to serve as Administrator of the Health Care Financing Administration at the Department of Health and Human Services.
The President announced his intention to nominate Robert G. Stanton as Director of the National Park Service, Department of the Interior.
The President announced his intention to nominate Kneeland Youngblood, M.D. to the Board of Directors of the U.S. Enrichment Corporation.
The White House announced that the President will travel to Poland, Romania, and Denmark immediately following the NATO Summit in Madrid, at the invitation of the Presidents of Poland and Romania and Her Majesty the Queen of Denmark.
  