
    I AM forwarding proposed legislation to create in the Executive Office of the President an Office of Science and Technology Policy headed by a Director who will also serve as my Science and Technology Adviser.
From my earliest days in public life, I have been impressed with the vital contributions of science and technology to the continued progress of this Nation. The expansion of knowledge through scientific research and the successful and creative employment of our scientific and technological capabilities are essential to the growth, stability and security of the Nation. Today, advancement in these fields is crucial, for example, to the achievement of our long-range energy independence.
The Director of the new Office will provide advice to me and my top assistants in policy areas where scientific or technological considerations are involved, thereby helping to assure that the Nation's scientific and technological capabilities are utilized effectively in achieving our Nation's goals. He will identify new opportunities for using science and technology to improve our understanding of national problems and to contribute to their solution. He will also chair the Federal Council on Science and Technology, and I expect him to provide advice on the scientific and technological considerations in Federal policies, programs and budgets.
The Director and the Deputy Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy will be appointed by the President. The Office will draw extensively on the Nation's scientific and engineering community for advice and assistance. The Director and staff will also call upon Federal agencies for assistance in carrying out their responsibilities.
I believe that this new mechanism for providing the President and his senior advisers ready access to scientific and technological advice will improve our ability to find the best courses of action for achieving our national objectives.
I urge the Congress to give this proposed legislation its early and favorable consideration.
Sincerely,
GERALD R. FORD
  