
    To the Congress of the United States:
The annual reports on administration of the Highway Safety and National Traffic and Motor Vehicle Safety Acts of 1966 are transmitted for your consideration. They describe some of the many and varied programs undertaken to carry out the purpose of Congress to reduce the rising numbers of traffic accidents, injuries and deaths. The volume on motor vehicle safety also includes the annual report required by Title I of the Motor Vehicle Information and Cost Savings Act of 1972. The highway safety document contains information on a number of activities initiated because of provisions in the Highway Safety Act of 1973.
Ten years after passage of the basic legislation, the American motorist is safer than ever before. The 1975 data show that: There were 45,674 traffic deaths, 6,000 fewer than in 1967, and 9,000 less than in 1973. The number of deaths per 100 million miles of travel reached 3.47, the lowest 'rate on record and far below that of any other industrial nation. The principal category of highway users, motor vehicle occupants, show the largest statistical improvement. Deaths in this category remained fairly constant until the 1973-1974 fuel crisis, while fatalities among other classes were rising.
These figures represent a real achievement in view of the tremendous growth in traffic during that period. This progress was made possible through the cooperation and support of Federal, State and community governments, of industry, private organizations, and the taxpaying public. It is the cumulative effect of a wide variety of safety and energy conservation programs, as well as research designed to improve the safety of the traffic components-- vehicle, highway, and driver.
The fatality figures are still far too large. There is a long way to go to containment within tolerable limits. However, the rising death curve of this century has been turned around. This merits the continued support of the Congress, and of all of the organizations and individuals who brought it about.
GERALD R. FORD
THE WHITE HOUSE,
June 25, 1976.
  