
    50 Democrats endorse Edwards for president
Detroit, Michigan – As Senator John Edwards visits Detroit to discuss his plan to guarantee quality, affordable health care to every American, the John Edwards for President campaign announced that 50 Michigan Democratic leaders are endorsing Edwards for president. Edwards' campaign to transform America already has the support of two Michigan leaders: Congressman Bart Stupak, who endorsed Edwards in February and former Congressman David Bonior, who is leading Edwards' campaign as the National Campaign Manager. In April, Edwards delivered the keynote address at the Michigan Democratic Party's Jefferson-Jackson Dinner.
"I can't think of anything more important that I could be doing than working to elect John Edwards our next president," said Bonior. "He is a leader in the fight for social and economic justice in our country and I'm proud to be a part of his campaign to create a working society where every person who works hard has the chance to achieve the American Dream."
"Through his leadership on poverty, the minimum wage and with the victims of Hurricane Katrina, John Edwards brings morality and voice to issues too often ignored," said Rev. Michael C. Murphy. "The prophet Amos said 'let justice roll down like waters and righteousness like an ever-flowing stream.' Senator Edwards' willingness to speak truth to power embodies this spirit."
Former State Senator and environmental leader Lana Pollack endorsed Edwards saying, "I'm thrilled that John Edwards is running for president because he is not afraid to speak the truth on even the toughest issues. He is the only one taking on the issue of poverty in a way that counts. He clearly has the strongest position on the biggest environmental challenge we face -- global warming."
Sheriff Mark Hackel said, "John Edwards is committed to the working people of this country. He cares about our future, jobs, and health care. He's the one person who can bring us all together."
"These are tough times in Michigan with many complicated issues," said State Representative Fred Miller. "John Edwards is the kind of leader with real plans to address the problems we are facing in these tough economic times in Michigan. As the son of blue-collar workers, John understands the concerns of Michigan's working families and knows that now is the time to stand up and fight for what is right. My colleagues and I are proud to endorse John Edwards for president and ask others to stand with us to create a better America."
The Michigan Democrats endorsing Edwards for president are:
Congressman Bart Stupak
Former Congressman David Bonior
Former State Representative Reverend Michael C. Murphy
State Senator Ray Basham
Former Michigan Senate Minority Leader Mike Hanley
Former State Senator and environmental leader Lana Pollack
State Representative Doug Bennett
State Representative Bob Constan
State Representative Marie Donigan
State Representative Kathleen Law
State Representative Fred Miller
State Representative Mike Simpson
Former State Representative Stephen Adamini
Former State Representative Ken Daniels
Trisha Stein Executive Director One United Michigan
7th Congressional District Chair/Chair of Jackson Democratic Party Leonard Smigielski
8th Congressional District Chair Kathleen Carney
Clinton Township Trustee George Fitzgerald
Delta Township Trustee Sherry Freeman
Macomb County Commissioner Brian Brdak
Macomb County Commissioner Ed Bruley
Macomb County Commissioner David Flynn
Macomb County Commissioner Joan Flynn
Macomb County Commissioner/Former State Rep Paul Gieleghem
Macomb County Commissioner Robert Mijac
Macomb County Commissioner Sarah Roberts
Macomb County Commissioner Jon Switalski
Macomb County Commissioner Kathy Tocco
Macomb County Treasurer Ted Wahby
Macomb County Sheriff Mark Hackel
Mount Clemens City Commissioner Lois Hill
Mount Clemens City Commissioner Matthew Dreger
St. Clair County Commissioner Howard Heidemann
Wayne County Commissioner Tim Killeen
Wyandotte City Council Member-Mayor Pro Tem Joe Peterson
Saginaw Co. Democratic Chair Bob Blaine
Southfield City Councilman Bill Lattimore
Michigan Women's Caucus Vice Chair Trina Ellis Erwin
President, Wyandotte Democratic Club Diana Keller
President, Clinton Township Democrats Christine Koch
Orion Area Democratic Club Chair, Phil Reid
Former Commissioner Gene Kuthy
Vice President, Warren Woods Board of Education Elizabeth Lenhard
Lathrup Village City Councilor Maria Mannarino
Brighton Area Schools Trustee Joe Carney
Royal Oak School Board Member Kevin McLogan
Chippewa Valley School Board Member Kenneth Pearl
Chair, St Clair Shores Democratic Club Charles Roberts
President, Warren Center Line Democrats Mike Scozzari
Treasurer, Clinton Township Democrats Bill Sowerby
Justice Caucus Co-Chair Paul Stevenson
Ingham County Commissioner Tim Soule
  