
    To the Congress of the United States:
I transmit herewith Reorganization Plan No. 4 of 1966, prepared in accordance with the Reorganization Act of 1949, as amended, and providing for a reorganization relating to the National Zoological Park located in the District of Columbia.
Today, all responsibilities for the administration of the Park are vested in the Smithsonian Institution with one exception--the function of preparing plans and specifications for the construction of buildings and bridges at the Zoo. That statutory responsibility is now conducted by the Board of Commissioners of the District of Columbia.
Under the accompanying reorganization plan, the responsibility for the preparation of these plans and specifications would be transferred from the D.C. Board of Commissioners to the Smithsonian. The complete administration of the Park would then be vested in one agency--the Smithsonian Institution. This will allow the more efficient and effective development and management of the Park.
In 1912, the functions to be transferred were vested in the Municipal Architect of the District of Columbia and in the Engineers of the Bridges of the District of Columbia. In 1952, they were transferred to the Board of Commissioners.
When the 1912 Act was passed, the District of Columbia shared the costs of capital improvements in the National Zoological Park. In 1961, it ceased sharing these costs, and the Federal Government assumed complete responsibility for financing the improvements. Accordingly, the District Government retains no capital improvement responsibilities for the National Zoological Park except those functions relating to construction plans and specifications for buildings and bridges, as specified in the 1912 statute. Upon the transfer of these remaining functions to the Smithsonian Institution, the administration of the National Zoological Park will, at last, be fully centered in one agency. It is not practicable at this time, however, to itemize the resulting reduction in expenditures.
I have found, after investigation, that each reorganization included in the accompanying reorganization plan is necessary to accomplish one or more of the purposes set forth in Section 2(a) of the Reorganization Act of 1949, as amended.
I recommend that the Congress allow the reorganization plan to become effective.
LYNDON B. JOHNSON
The White House
June 13, 1966
  