
    Your Royal Highness and all of our distinguished guests from Saudi Arabia and from the United States:
It is very appropriate that we are having this luncheon, the last social function ,at the White House prior to a visit to the Mideast by the President of the United States. This visit is one that comes at a time that we are developing a hopeful, new relationship with the nations in that area, and particularly with the Arab nations, some of which we have not had very helpful or, shall we say, close relations with in the past because of events on the international scene.
But as we welcome our friends from Saudi Arabia, it seems to me very important to say to this company, and also to say it to all of those who may hear or read these words in America and in the world, that America's interest in the Mideast is not solely and not even primarily dictated by what we call those pragmatic selfish concerns that usually are the factor most important in foreign policy.
For example, there are those who might say we receive our Saudi friends here in this company and the President of the United States welcomes the opportunity to go there because Saudi Arabia is the greatest producer of oil in the world, and we buy some oil from them. But a relationship between two countries bound together only by oil would not last very long.
Our very distinguished guest, His Royal Highness Prince Fahd, brought this home to me in our constructive discussions this morning when he said, "The friendship between Saudi Arabia and the United States goes back many years before we discovered the enormous oil reserves of that country."
And it is that friendship which binds us together; it is that friendship that we honor today; it is that kind of friendship that we wish to develop with the nations we will visit on this trip and the other nations in that area.
And I can only say, speaking personally, that while I have not had the privilege of being to Saudi Arabia before, I have valued for over 20 years a very close, personal friendship with King Faisal, with many members of this company who are here today, and I know whereof I speak when I say that, yes, we have interests which bring us together, but even more important, we have friendship that will last long after any interests might disappear.
And to that friendship between two great countries, it is in that spirit that I propose a toast today to His Royal Highness.
Gentlemen, will you rise to His Royal Highness Prince Fahd, and friendship between the Saudi Arabian and the American people.
  