
    Meek Will Serve as Senior Advisor
The Clinton Campaign today announced the endorsement of Florida Congressman Kendrick Meek and named him a Senior Advisor to the Senator and her campaign.
"Senator Hillary Clinton is the Democratic candidate with the perfect blend of leadership, talent and intellect to lead our nation in a new direction. It is my honor to endorse Senator Hillary Clinton to be our next president," Meek said. "I am pleased to accept Senator Clinton's offer to serve as her Senior Advisor, and will work to help her win this campaign. Where Hillary Clinton needs me, I will go and deliver her message of hope and opportunity to all Americans. Ending the war in Iraq, tackling the inequities in our health care system, breaking our dependency on foreign oil -- that is Hillary Clinton's agenda and I will work tirelessly to help her achieve these goals."
Meek is serving in his third term in Congress after being elected to represent Miami-Dade and Broward Counties in 2002. A member of the powerful House Ways and Means and Armed Services Committees, Meek also serves on the Democratic Steering and Policy Committee. He serves as Chair of the Congressional Black Caucus Foundation.
During his first two terms in Congress, Meek was tapped for several leadership positions, including Vice Chair of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee where he traveled the country recruiting candidates to run for Congress, raised millions of dollars on behalf of Democratic congressional candidates, and was selected to serve on the Democratic National Committee's Commission on Presidential Nomination Timing and Scheduling.
Meek has also led efforts to improve Florida's education system, chairing an initiative to reduce class sizes in the state's overcrowded public schools. He spearheaded a petition drive to collect more than 500,000 signatures, and helped defeat two state Supreme Court challenges to get the measure approved.
Prior to his election to Congress, Meek served eight years in the Florida House and Senate and was a captain in the Florida Highway Patrol.
"Kendrick is a rising star and the future of our party," Clinton said. "I'm honored to have his support, and fortunate to have him advising me on policy and campaign strategy. I look forward to working together as we tackle the challenges facing America at home and abroad."
The announcement was made during a joint appearance on the national radio broadcast of "The Tom Joyner Morning Show."
  