
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
June 22
In the morning, the President traveled from Houston, TX, to Cleveland, OH.
In the afternoon, the President attended a Democratic National Committee reception at the Slam Jam Sports Grill in Cleveland, OH. Later, he returned to Washington, DC.
June 24
In the morning, the President traveled to Nashville, TN.
In the afternoon, the President traveled to New York, NY.
In the evening, the President attended a Democratic National Committee dinner at the Plaza Hotel. Later, he returned to Washington, DC, arriving after midnight.
The President declared a major disaster in the State of Ohio and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by flooding beginning May 2.
The President declared a major disaster in the State of Iowa and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms and flooding May 8-28.
June 25
In the afternoon, the President met with President Sixto Duran-Ballen of Ecuador in the Oval Office. Later, he met with President Lennart Meri of Estonia, President Algirdas Brazauskas of Lithuania, and President Guntis Ulmanis of Latvia in the Cabinet Room. He then met with President Islom Karimov of Uzbekistan.
The President announced his intention to appoint Margo H. Briggs to the President's National Security Telecommunications Advisory Board.
The President declared a major disaster in the State of Nebraska and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by a tornado and severe storms May 8-28.
June 26
In the morning, the President hosted an ecumenical breakfast with religious leaders, including pastors, ministers, and heads of national organizations in the State Dining Room.
Later in the morning, the President and Hillary Clinton traveled to Lyons, France. While en route, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu of Israel who expressed condolences over the casualties caused by a terrorist bomb in Saudi Arabia.
The White House announced that the President will attend memorial services at Eglin Air Force Base and Patrick Air Force Base in Florida on June 30, for the U.S. Air Force personnel killed by a terrorist bomb in Saudi Arabia.
The White House announced that the President certified the Bosnian Government's compliance with the requirement in the Dayton accords that foreign forces be withdrawn from Bosnia, and that Iranian-Bosnian intelligence cooperation on training, investigations, and related activities has been terminated.
The President announced his intention to appoint Mary Beth Blegen to the Commission on Presidential Scholars.
June 27
In the morning, the President traveled to Perouges, France.
In the afternoon, the President returned to Lyons.
The President announced his intention to nominate Sophia H. Hall to the Board of Directors of the State Justice Institute.
The President declared a major disaster in the State of Vermont and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by extreme rainfall and flooding June 12-14.
  