
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
June 12
In the morning, the President traveled to Chicago, IL, and in the evening, he returned to Washington, DC.
June 13
In the evening, the President and Hillary Clinton attended "An American Celebration" at the Ford's Theatre.
The President had a telephone conversation with President Boris Yeltsin of Russia concerning NATO peacekeeping efforts in Kosovo.
June 14
The President had separate telephone conversations concerning NATO peacekeeping efforts in Kosovo with the following foreign leaders: President Boris Yeltsin of Russia, President Vaclav Havel of the Czech Republic, Prime Minister Ivan Kostov of Bulgaria, Prime Minister Ljubco Georgievski of Macedonia, and Prime Minister Radu Vasile of Romania.
The President also had separate telephone conversations with President Hugo Chavez of Venezuela concerning regional issues and cooperation on counternarcotics efforts, and Prime Minister Atal Behari Vajpayee of India concerning the situation in Kashmir.
The White House announced that the President will travel to Connecticut and New York City on June 28; Chicago, IL, on June 30; Miami, FL, on July 13; and Cincinnati, OH, and Aspen, CO, on July 23.
June 15
In the evening, the President and Hillary and Chelsea Clinton traveled to Geneva, Switzerland, arriving after midnight.
The President announced his intention to nominate Jerry Florence to be a member of the National Museum Services Board.
The President announced his intention to appoint Dr. Gary Vikan as a member of the Cultural Property Advisory Committee.
The President announced his intention to appoint Thomas J. Donohue, Gerald Greenwald, Louis V. Gerstner, Jr., Rhonda Karpatkin, and Robert Shapiro as members of the Advisory Committee for Trade Policy and Negotiations.
June 16
In the morning, the President met with President Ruth Dreifuss of Switzerland concerning the situation in Kosovo.
In the afternoon, the President and Hillary and Chelsea Clinton traveled to Paris, France. While en route aboard Air Force One, the President had separate telephone conversations with Rep. Nick Lampson and Rep. Bob Etheridge concerning proposed gun control legislation.
The President announced his intention to appoint Greta Dicus as Chair of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission.
June 17
In the evening, the President traveled to Cologne, Germany.
The President announced his intention to nominate Michael A. Sheehan to be Coordinator for Counter-Terrorism with the rank of Ambassador at the Department of State.
June 18
The President announced his intention to nominate Dr. A. Lee Fritschler to be Assistant Secretary for Postsecondary Education at the Department of Education.
The President announced his intention to nominate Robert S. Gelbard to be Ambassador to Indonesia.
The President announced his intention to nominate Sally Katzen to be Deputy Director for Management at the Office of Management and Budget.
The President announced his intention to appoint Victoria Catchett, Carl Feen, Christine Warnke, and Cynthia Yorkin to the President's Advisory Committee on the Arts of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts.
  