
    The following listing includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the White House Press Office and not included elsewhere in this issue.
May 28
The President returned to the White House from Camp David, Md.
May 29
The President met at the White House with:
—Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs;
—Frank B. Moore, Assistant to the President for Congressional Liaison;
—Kang Shi'en, Vice Premier of the State Council of the People's Republic of China.
The President transmitted to the Congress the 1978 annual report of the National Institute of Building Sciences.
May 30
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Mr. Moore;
—Stansfield Turner, Director of Central Intelligence, Hamilton Jordan, Assistant to the President, and Dr. Brzezinski;
—Representative Charles Rose of North Carolina.
The President participated in a breakfast briefing by administration officials on the strategic arms limitation agreement given for community and civic leaders in the State Dining Room at the White House.
May 31
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Mr. Moore;
—Representative Silvio O. Conte of Massachusetts;
—Mrs. Carter, for lunch;
—Secretary of Energy James R. Schlesinger, Stuart E. Eizenstat, Assistant to the President for Domestic Affairs and Policy, and representatives of the petroleum industry, to discuss current gasoline shortages and the long-term outlook.
The President received the 1979 Public Health Service Award from members of the National Association of Community Health Centers in a ceremony in the Oval Office.
The White House made available the following information on the President's financial affairs: the financial disclosure report for 1978; the net worth statement as of December 31, 1978; the 1978 joint income tax return; and the Internal Revenue Service final audit report for the 1977 joint income tax return.
The President has received the report of the Emergency Board which investigated the American Train Dispatchers Association labor dispute.
June 1
The President met at the White House with:
—Secretary of Defense Harold Brown, Deputy Secretary of State Warren M. Christopher, Dr. Brzezinski, and Mr. Jordan;
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Mr. Moore;
—U.S. Ambassador to Saudi Arabia John C. West;
—Secretary Schlesinger, Mr. Eizenstat, and representatives of consumer and conservation groups, to discuss current gasoline shortages and the longterm outlook.
The President participated in a luncheon briefing by administration officials on the strategic arms limitation agreement given for community and civic leaders in the State Dining Room at the White House.
The President left the White House for a stay at Camp David, Md.
  