
    The following releases of the Office of the White House Press Secretary, distributed during the period covered by this issue, are not included in the issue.
Released June 23, 1978
Advance text: remarks at the Democratic fundraising dinner in Houston, Tex.
Released June 24, 1978
Advance text: remarks at dedication ceremonies for the Jack Brooks Federal Building in Beaumont, Tex.
Announcement: commendation by Ambassador Robert S. Strauss of the Business Roundtable for joining in the administration's program of voluntary wage and price restraint
CHECKLIST—Continued
Released June 24—Continued
Announcement: commendation by Ambassador Strauss of the Printing Industries of America, Inc., for joining in the administration's program of voluntary wage and price restraint
Released June 26, 1978
Announcement: nomination of Clinton T. Peoples to be United States Marshal for the Northern District of Texas
Announcement: nomination of Robert E. Hauberg to be United States Attorney for the Southern District of Mississippi
Fact sheet: Representative William A. Steiger's proposal on tax reduction legislation
Released June 27, 1978
Announcement: commendation by Ambassador Strauss of the Chamber of Commerce of the United States for its anti-inflation resolution
Announcement: U.S. delegation to the Solomon Islands independence ceremonies
Released June 28, 1978
Statement: on the Supreme Court decisions on Regents of the University of California v. Bakke—by Attorney General Griffin B. Bell (made during his White House news conference)
News conference: on the Supreme Court decisions on the Bakke case—by Attorney General Bell
Released June 29, 1978
Fact sheet: Executive Order 12065, on national security information
News conference: on the security classification system—by Deanne Siemer, General Counsel, Department of Defense; Richard M. Neustadt, Assistant Director, Domestic Policy Staff, and Gary Barron, National Security Council staff
Released June 30, 1978
Announcement: nomination of Eugene Madden, Jr., to be United States Marshal for the Northern District of New York
Announcement: nomination of Robert J. Cindrich to be United States Attorney for the Western District of Pennsylvania
Fact sheet: administration's paperwork reduction programs
  