
    This week, White House Office of Public Engagement Director Steve Benjamin, Domestic Policy Advisor Neera Tanden, and Infrastructure Implementation Coordinator Mitch Landrieu met with Co-Chair of the Poor People's Campaign Bishop William J. Barber, Service Employees International Union (SEIU) International President Mary Kay Henry, and other leaders from the Poor People's Campaign and Repairers of the Breach to discuss the enduring fight to end poverty in America.
During the meeting, senior White House officials underscored the Biden-Harris Administration's commitment to make the promise of America real for every American, including communities impacted by persistent poverty. They discussed how President Biden has led the most equitable economic recovery on record by signing into law the historic American Rescue Plan (ARP), Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, and Inflation Reduction Act (IRA), in turn creating more than 13 million jobs since taking office and helping generate new economic opportunities for underserved communities. The officials thanked participants for sharing their stories about the devastating impact of poverty and for their moral leadership and partnership in building an America in which all can participate, prosper, and reach their full potential. The officials emphasized the Biden-Harris Administration's core commitment to continue building the economy from the bottom up and the middle out.
Participants included:
White House Officials

Steve Benjamin, Assistant to the President, Director, Office of Public Engagement
Neera Tanden, Assistant to the President, Domestic Policy Advisor
Mitch Landrieu, Senior Advisor to the President, Infrastructure Implementation Coordinator 
Erika Moritsugu, Deputy Assistant to the President, AA and NHPI Senior Liaison
Tara Murray, Special Assistant to the President, Deputy Director, Office of Public Engagement
Melissa Rogers, Special Assistant to the President, Director of White House Office of Faith-Based and Neighborhood Partnerships
Phil Kim, Senior Advisor, AA and NHPI and Faith Liaison, Office of Public Engagement
David Marsh, Director of Economic Mobility, Domestic Policy Council

Poor People's Campaign and Repairers of the Breach

Bishop William J. Barber II, Director, Yale Center for Public Theology & Public Policy; President, Repairers of the Breach; Co-Chair, Poor People's Campaign: A National Call for Moral Revival

Rev. Dr. Liz Theoharis, Director, The Kairos Center; Co-Chair, Poor People's Campaign: A National Call for Moral Revival
Mary Kay Henry, International President, SEIU
Valerie Eguavoen, Associate Director, Yale Center for Public Theology & Public Policy 
Rev. A. Kazimir Brown, Executive Director and Vice President, Repairers of the Breach
Shailly Barnes, Policy Director, Kairos Center 
Rabbi Alana Suskin, Maryland Poor People's Campaign 
Tanya Fogle, Kentucky Poor People's Campaign
Pam Garrison, West Virginia Poor People's Campaign 
Callie Greer, Alabama Poor People's Campaign
Mariel Garcia, Fight for $15 LA
Rev. Dr. Della Jane Owens, Senior Minister, St. James Christian Church
Yara Allen, Director of Theomusicology, Repairers of the Breach
Rev. Dr. Alvin O'Neal Jackson, Executive Director, Poor People's Campaign
Rev. Dr. Louis Threatt, Minister and Chaplain
Rev. Wayne Wilhelm, North Carolina Poor People's Campaign

  