
    "All we're doing in Florida is having the temerity to fight back to protect the integrity of education for our kids, to protect parents' rights, to be able to send kids to school and have the school focus on the basics, and not teach a young kid that they can change their gender or that they were born in the wrong body."
This evening, Governor Ron DeSantis joined Kayleigh McEnany on Fox News Tonight for a wide-ranging interview contrasting Florida's track record of economic success against California's failed leftist policies, his plans to take on the CCP, and the necessity of fighting culture wars head on.
Watch the full interview HERE.
HIGHLIGHTS
**Governor DeSantis on why fighting the culture wars matters: **
"Well, Kayleigh when they're trying to inject matters of gender ideology into a kindergarten or first grade classroom, just understand that is a culture war. But that's a culture war being waged by the left against parents and kids. All we're doing in Florida is having the temerity to fight back to protect the integrity of the education for our kids, to protect parents' rights, to be able to send their kid to school, and have the school focus on the basics, and not teach a young kid that they can change their gender or that they were born in the wrong body."
Governor DeSantis on combatting the CCP:
"You know, when China was put into the World Trade Organization, and granted most favored nation status almost 25 years ago, we were told by DC elites that this would make China more free, more democratic, it'd make the world better. In reality, it hollowed out parts of our country, it made China very rich, and what has Xi used that money for? To build up more military capacity. He now has grand ambitions, not just in the Pacific, but even in our own hemisphere. And we see news where China is going to be working with Cuba to establish eavesdropping, maybe a military outpost, that's a huge, huge threat to this country. So yes, we need to declare independence from China economically. And we need to make sure that we have the ability to project the appropriate strength in the Pacific to work with our allies to deter China. China understands the language of strength. And I think what Joe Biden has done since his first day in office, he's projected weakness. A lot of bad actors around the world see that. And that really whets their appetite to be able to do things that are going to be very harmful for the world."
Governor DeSantis on Florida vs California:  
"Even though we're only 60% of the size of California we have New--more business formations here. We have way less tax, way less debt, we have one of the lowest tax and debt burdens in the entire country. We have led amongst all big states since COVID. And economic growth, our unemployment rates 2.6%, California's is over 4%...It's a beautiful state, great topography, all kinds of diversity in terms of the different communities you can live in. And yet they never lost population until their current governor took office. Now they're hemorrhaging wealth. Now they're hemorrhaging population because you see things like what I saw the other day in San Francisco. I saw people defecating on the sidewalk. I saw people in an open-air drug market using fentanyl. I saw them using crack cocaine. I had police officers come over and shake my hand and thank me for what we're doing in Florida because they wish that they had a commitment to law and order in the state of California and in San Francisco. So, we can cite all the statistics. People vote with their feet. And if someone picks up and moves 2500 miles across the country, from California to Florida, that's a major statement."
  