
    "A strong and independent United Kingdom, like a strong and independent United States, is truly a blessing on the world. -President Donald J. Trump
AN IMPORTANT NEW ERA: President Donald J. Trump is honored to be back in the United Kingdom during this important time of change and opportunity for its nations and people.

The longstanding relationship between the United States and the United Kingdom is essential to our shared security and prosperity.
As the United Kingdom continues to work toward a plan to leave the European Union (EU), the United States pledges to maintain a strong relationship with both.

The United States will continue to prepare for all outcomes and coordinate with governments, financial institutions, and international bodies to protect its interests.


President Trump supports Brexit being accomplished in a way that will not affect global economic and financial stability while also securing independence to the United Kingdom.

ROBUST ECONOMIC RELATIONS: President Trump seeks to strengthen our economic ties with the United Kingdom through an ambitious new trade agreement.

The United Kingdom is one of the largest markets for U.S. exports and one of the largest suppliers of U.S. imports.
In February, President Trump outlined his negotiating objectives to strike an ambitious trade agreement with the United Kingdom after it leaves the EU.
As two of the top five largest economies in the world, the United States and the United Kingdom stand to benefit greatly from expanded trade and economic cooperation.

In 2018, the United States and the United Kingdom had more than $260 billion in two-way trade in goods and services.


At nearly $1.3 trillion, the United States and the United Kingdom share one of the world's largest bilateral foreign direct investment partnerships.

More than 2.2 million jobs depend directly on those investments.



GLOBAL SECURITY AND SHARED PROSPERITY: President Trump is working with the United Kingdom to address global and regional security issues and to promote shared prosperity.

Now nearly 80 members strong, the United States and the United Kingdom are leaders in the Global Coalition to Defeat ISIS.

The Royal Air Force and other partners liberated more than 110,000 square kilometers of territory and freed nearly 8 million people from ISIS.


The United Kingdom is working with the United States to hold Iran accountable for its malign behavior and unacceptable rhetoric.
In Asia, the United States and the United Kingdom are working toward a denuclearized Korean Peninsula and continue to address China's malicious cyber activities and egregious human rights abuses.
The United States and the United Kingdom remain committed to NATO's principle of collective defense, exceeding the 2 percent of GDP required to be provided by the Wales Pledge.
In 2017, the United States and the United Kingdom signed a landmark science and technology agreement that created a pathway for advancements in early-stage R&D, artificial intelligence, and more.

  