
    Pool Reports by Christopher Kane, Washington Blade 



Sent:
Reports:




June 26, 2023 14:33

pool report #1: wheels up
Good afternoon,
Chris Kane here with the Washington Blade. I'll be your print pooler for the VP's trip to New York today.
We were wheels up from JBA at 2:33 p.m. ET.


June 26, 2023 15:17

pool report #2: wheels down
Good afternoon from New York,
We were wheels down at LaGuardia at 3:16 p.m.


June 26, 2023 15:44

pool report #3: VP talks with crowd at LGA
Good afternoon,
After stepping off AF2 at LGA, the VP talked with a crowd of supporters gathered outside, many waving Pride Progress flags. At one point, chants of "Four more years!" broke out.


June 26, 2023 16:35

pool report #4: VP arrives at Stonewall for OTR
Good afternoon,
The VP has arrived at the Stonewall Inn for an OTR.
On June 28 1969, riots erupted after a police raid, commemorated a year later with demonstrations that were credited with ushering in the modern movement for LGBTQ civil rights.


June 26, 2023 17:05

pool report #5: VP's remarks at Stonewall Inn
Mostly-complete transcript of the VP's remarks at the Stonewall Inn, where she was joined by Andy Cohen:
We are fighting for the ideals of our country, which means that we are patriots because we love our country. We believe in a time of equality and freedom...I'm looking at where we are in our country. But we're also clear eyed about that. There are over 600 bills that are being proposed, anti LGBTQ bills. You know, I look at it in terms of — I was honored to perform some of the first same-sex marriages in our country back in 2004.
I look at these young teachers in Florida are in their 20s and if they're in a same sex relationship are afraid they might lose their jobs. So just thinking about the symmetry there It pains but it also reminds me that we can take nothing for granted in terms of the progress we achieved. We have to be vigilant. We understand that's the nature of our fight for equality. And so we're up for it and we are not going to be overwhelmed. We're not going to be silenced. We're not going to be deterred. We are not going to tire. We're not going to throw up our hands, we're going to roll up our sleeves. That's to me what Stonewall means —strength in numbers.


June 26, 2023 17:12

pool report #6: VP remarks outside Stonewall
Good afternoon,
The VP delivered brief remarks outside the Stonewall Inn. Partial transcript below:
This place represents a real inflection moment — which is a moment that is about equality and a movement that is about freedom
…
understanding that this fight is not [over]. When I look at the fact that in our country somewhere around 600 [anti-lgbtq] bills being proposed and passed…a failed policy approach that is
…
people [are living] in fear, people are afraid to be themselves — these are fundamental issues that point to the need for us to all be vigilant to stand together. I feel very strongly no one should be made to fight. So when it comes to the work I have done for decades now, it is the work that I will continue to do to stand with the LGBTQ community and fight for freedom and safety and for fairness.
…
So that's why I'm here today to celebrate 54 years ago, such courage and determination and the inspiration they gave this movement that continues today.


June 26, 2023 17:17

pool report #7: additional background on Stonewall visit
A WH official shared the following, additional background on the VP's OTR visit to Stonewall:On Monday, June 26th, Vice President Harris made a surprise stop at the Stonewall Inn and National Monument in New York City, New York. Upon arrival, the Vice President was greeted by Shirley McKinney, Manhattan Sites Superintendent for the National Park Service, who provided a briefing and tour of the National Monument. The Vice President then proceeded to the Stonewall Inn bar and tavern where she was welcomed by TV host Andy Cohen and greeted patrons. Before departing, Vice President Harris shared brief remarks with press. In her remarks, the Vice President talked about the importance of honoring and celebrating the contributions of LGBTQI+ Americans throughout history, what Stonewall represents in terms of the long movement towards full equality for LGBTQI+ Americans, and made clear the Biden-Harris Administration's steadfast support of LGBTQI+ people and families.
Additional Background on StonewallThe Stonewall Inn, is a gay bar located in the Greenwich Village neighborhood of Lower Manhattan, New York City, and the site of the Stonewall uprising of 1969, considered as a key turning point in the struggle for the civil rights of LGBTQ+ Americans.
In a pattern of harassment of LGBTQ+ establishments, police raided the Stonewall Inn in the early hours of Saturday, June 28, 1969. Instead of dispersing, patrons and allies fought back. The initial raid and the riot that ensued led to six days of demonstrations and conflicts outside the bar, in nearby Christopher Park, and along neighboring streets. Stonewall is regarded by many as an important catalyst for the dramatic expansion of the LGBTQ+ rights movement.
In 2000, the Stonewall Inn was recognized as a National Historic Landmark. Then, in 2016, President Obama established the Stonewall National Monument, the first U.S. national monument dedicated to LGBTQ+ rights. The national monument includes Christopher Park and the surrounding streets where the uprising occurred.


June 26, 2023 18:28

pool report #8: extended background on VP's Stonewall visit
Good evening,Extended background below on the VP's visit to Stonewall and her work on LGBTQ rights over the years.
In addition to Andy Cohen, the VP was joined by the Stonewall Inn's current owner, Kurt Kelly.
From a White House official:On Monday, June 26th, Vice President Harris made a surprise stop at the Stonewall Inn and National Monument in New York City, New York. Upon arrival, the Vice President was greeted by Shirley McKinney, Manhattan Sites Superintendent for the National Park Service, who provided a briefing and tour of the National Monument. The Vice President then proceeded to the Stonewall Inn bar and tavern where she was welcomed by TV host Andy Cohen and greeted patrons. Before departing, Vice President Harris shared brief remarks with press. In her remarks, the Vice President talked about the importance of honoring and celebrating the contributions of LGBTQI+ Americans throughout history, what Stonewall represents in terms of the long movement towards full equality for LGBTQI+ Americans, and made clear the Biden-Harris Administration's steadfast support of LGBTQI+ people and families.
Additional Background on StonewallThe Stonewall Inn, is a gay bar located in the Greenwich Village neighborhood of Lower Manhattan, New York City, and the site of the Stonewall uprising of 1969, considered as a key turning point in the struggle for the civil rights of LGBTQ+ Americans.
In a pattern of harassment of LGBTQ+ establishments, police raided the Stonewall Inn in the early hours of Saturday, June 28, 1969. Instead of dispersing, patrons and allies fought back. The initial raid and the riot that ensued led to six days of demonstrations and conflicts outside the bar, in nearby Christopher Park, and along neighboring streets. Stonewall is regarded by many as an important catalyst for the dramatic expansion of the LGBTQ+ rights movement.
In 2000, the Stonewall Inn was recognized as a National Historic Landmark. Then, in 2016, President Obama established the Stonewall National Monument, the first U.S. national monument dedicated to LGBTQ+ rights. The national monument includes Christopher Park and the surrounding streets where the uprising occurred.
 Vice President's History on LGBTQI+ Issues

Vice President Harris has fought to advance civil and human rights, including for LGBTQI+ people, throughout her career.
As San Francisco District Attorney, Vice President Harris created one of the first LGBTQI+ hate crimes units in the nation, fought against the so-called "gay and transgender panic defense," and officiated same-sex marriages in 2004 in San Francisco City Hall. 
As Attorney General, Vice President Harris played a key role in re-establishing marriage equality in California by not defending Proposition 8.
As Senator, Vice President Harris was a prominent supporter of efforts to defend and advance equality for LGBTQI+ people. She authored bills that would have safeguarded federal protections for LGBTQI+ people and that would increase affordable access to drugs that prevent HIV, in addition to cosponsoring landmark legislation that sought to further equal treatment for LGBTQI+ people, including the Equality Act.
Vice President Harris first officiated same-sex marriages in 2004 while serving as District Attorney of San Francisco after then-Mayor Gavin Newsom directed the county clerk to issue marriage licenses to same-sex couples. She later officiated same-sex weddings in 2008 when the California Supreme Court overturned the state's same sex marriage ban, and then again in 2013, after the Supreme Court effectively reinstated the federal district court decision that invalidated Proposition 8.

 Recent Engagement with the LGBTQI+ Community

Understanding that Americans experience an intersection of issues, Vice President Harris has worked to ensure there is LGBTQI+ representation in engagements on a variety of issues.

In May, Vice President Harris convened young men of color entrepreneurs for a conversation on small businesses and the work the Administration is doing to ensure they have the tools they need to thrive. Participants represented a variety of sectors and lived experiences, include LGBTQI+ people like designer Brandon Blackwood (story).
In February, Vice President Harris recording a video about climate with Ebony and Denise Nunez, of Team2Moms, and their daughter Olivia (tweet).
Following Dobbs decision, Vice President Harris convened civil rights activists around the issues of reproductive rights and made clear from the onset the implications for LGBTQI+ Americans.


In December of 2022, President Biden and Vice President Harris ensured safe return of Brittney Griner (tweet).
In May, Vice President Harris made a surprise visit to the Los Angeles Sparks' game against the Phoenix Mercury for Brittney Griner's first regular season game since she was released from Russia (tweet).
In December of 2022, President Biden and Vice President Harris delivered remarks at the signing of the Respect for Marriage Act (Video, Transcript).
In November of 2022, the Vice President delivered remarks at the Human Right's Campaign Annual National Dinner (Video,Transcript).
In June of 2022, Vice President Harris hosted a Pride reception at the Naval Observatory to commemorate Pride Month. During the program, she was introduced by Kris Perry and Sandy Stier; the reception took place on Kris and Sandy's 9th wedding anniversary. During Pride Month, the Vice President also made a surprise stop at DC Pride Fest, where she celebrated the progress made on LGBTQI+ rights and called out the need to continue fighting, in particular against violence targeting the LGBTQI+ community. 
The Vice President was and continues to be outspoken about the potential impact of the Dobbs decision on LGBTQI+ rights. Immediately following the decision, she said "This is the first time in the history of our nation that a constitutional right has been taken from the people of America. And what is that right? -- some might ask. It's the right to privacy. Think about it as the right for each person to make intimate decisions about heart and home; decisions about the right to start a family, including contraception, such as IUDs and the morning-after pill; decisions about whether to have a child, including, as Senator Durbin mentioned, through in-vitro fertilization; decisions to marry the person you love -- Obergefell v. Hodges, Loving vs. Virginia."

Over the summer of 2022, prior to the passage of the Respect for Marriage Act, Vice President Harris met with Jim Obergefell and they discussed threats to marriage equality (tweet).



Biden-Harris Administration Accomplishments for the LGBTQI+ Community

On the first day of the Administration, President Biden signed a historic Executive Order on preventing and combatting discrimination against LGBTQI+ Americans. That order directed agencies to implement the Supreme Court's ruling in Bostock v. Clayton County to fully enforce civil rights laws to prevent discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation and gender identity regarding employment discrimination.
President Biden rescinded the discriminatory ban on transgender servicemembers, enabling all qualified Americans to serve their country in uniform. The Department of Veterans Affairs has also taken important steps to strengthen services and supports for LGBTQI+ veterans, including by removing an outdated ban on providing comprehensive gender-affirming care for transgender veterans through the VA health system.
The Department of Justice has intervened and filed statements of interest in lawsuits across the country challenging state laws that seek to ban transgender children from accessing gender-affirming health care and participating on school sports teams as unconstitutional. 
The State Department expanded access to more inclusive U.S. passports by offering an "X" gender marker option to ensure gender non-binary Americans can access an accurate federal ID.
The Biden-Harris Administration established a first of its kind Interagency Working Group to coordinate a government-wide response to the crisis of anti-transgender violence which disproportionately impacts transgender women and girls of color. 
President Biden signed an Executive Order in March 2021 stating the Administration's policy that all students should be guaranteed an educational environment free from discrimination on the basis of sex, including discrimination in the form of sexual harassment, which encompasses sexual violence, and including discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation or gender identity, as codified in Title IX. The EO directed the Department of Education to assess existing regulations and policies and to ensure they were consistent with the Administration's policy. On the 50th Anniversary of Title IX on June 23, 2022, the Department of Education issued a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking to align with the stated policy. 
In June of 2022, President Signed an Executive Order advancing equality for LGBTQI+ individuals by addressing discriminatory legislative attacks against LGBTQI+ children and families, directing key agencies to protect families and children; preventing so-called "conversion therapy" with a historic initiative to protect children from the harmful practice; safeguarding health care, and programs designed to prevent youth suicide; supporting LGBTQI+ children and families by launching a new initiative to protect foster youth, prevent homelessness, and improve access to federal programs; and taking new, additional steps to advance LGBTQI+ equality.




June 26, 2023 20:08

pool report #9: VP speaks at campaign reception
From the Biden-Harris campaign: The Vice President's campaign reception this evening in New York City at the 24th Annual LGBTQ+ Leadership Council Gala is in support of the Biden Victory Fund.
Report with the VP's remarks is forthcoming



  