
    President Bush Today Announced His Intention to Nominate Four Individuals and Appoint Five Individuals to Serve in His Administration
President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate four individuals and appoint five individuals to serve in his administration.
The President intends to nominate Jeffrey S. Merrifield to be a Member of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission for a five-year term expiring June 30, 2007. Merrifield was first appointed to serve on the Nuclear Regulatory Commission in 1998, and he was previously the Counsel and Staff Director of the Senate Subcommittee on Superfund, Waste Control and Risk Assessment. Merrifield is a graduate of Tufts University and Georgetown University Law School.
The President intends to nominate John S. Bresland to be a Member of the Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board for a five-year term. Bresland is currently a staff consultant with the Center for Chemical Process Safety in New York, and he was previously the Director of Environmental Risk Management for Honeywell International, Inc. He earned an undergraduate degree from Londonberry Technical College in Northern Ireland, and a postgraduate degree from Salford University in England.
The President intends to nominate Ellen Sauerbrey to be Representative of the United States Commission on the Status of Women of the Economic and Social Council of the United Nations with the rank of Ambassador. Sauerbrey was a member of the Maryland House of Delegates from 1978 to 1994, and she served as Minority Leader from 1986 to 1994. Her Committee assignments included the Appropriations Committee; Subcommittee on Education and Transportation; Ways and Means and Economic Matters. She is a graduate of Western Maryland College.
The President intends to nominate Norman J. Pattiz to be a Member of the Broadcasting Board of Governors for the remainder of a three-year term expiring August 13, 2004. Mr. Pattiz has served on the Broadcasting Board of Governors since 2000, and he is the Chairman of Westwood One, America's largest radio network.
The President intends to appoint the following five individuals to serve as Members of the Nuclear Waste Technical Review Board for the remainders of four-year terms expiring April 19, 2006:
Michael Corradini of Wisconsin to serve as ChairmanMark D. Abkowitz of Tennessee to represent the Transportation sectorThure E. Cerling of Utah to represent the Geochemistry sectorDavid J. Duquette of New York to represent the Corrosion sectorRonald Michael Latanision of Massachusetts to represent the Corrosion sector
  