
    The United States of America and the Russian Federation, recognizing the growing role of technological innovation in the economies of both countries, as well as the importance of bilateral cooperation in this area, express their intent to begin new and dedicated efforts to promote collaboration in the areas of development of civil technologies, open standards, and innovation and technology policy. These collaborative measures will be made in equal partnership and for mutual benefit and will foster long term relationships in the areas of economic development, national competitiveness, and the development of a world-class workforce.
In this context the United States and Russia are considering the generation of new innovative ideas, their broad dissemination and their commercialization as an important component for developing an innovation ecosystem and fostering economic growth in both countries.
Implementation of these ideas is dependent upon a trained world class workforce with twenty-first century knowledge and skills, unfettered access to ideas and information, and a business environment that fosters fair competition, and the rule of law, to include ensuring protection of intellectual property rights. At the same time efficient capital markets and openness to international trade and investment are fundamental for an effective innovation strategy, and are key to supporting the development of innovative products and ventures.
To build upon existing measures in innovation and technology policy the United States and Russia propose to develop cooperation in the following key areas:

  Invest in the Building Blocks of Innovation. For purposes of successful innovation development the United States and Russia will take steps that will foster and develop bilateral and international collaboration, including: support of research and development, and the creation of human, physical, and technological capital needed to perform that research and transfer those innovations.
Promote Productive Entrepreneurship. Both countries commit to create environments conducive to entrepreneurship, including policies that support the venture capital industry, that will allow companies based in the United States and Russia to be internationally competitive in a global exchange of ideas and innovation.
Catalyze Breakthroughs for Shared Priorities. The United States and Russia are committed to fostering innovation in sectors of exceptional importance to both countries, in particular: developing alternative energy sources, energy efficiency and conservation, advanced transportation technologies, nanotechnology, space technology, biotechnology, security technologies, and computer and information technology.

For these purposes the United States and Russia are committed to supporting and developing cooperation on innovation in science and technology through both existing mechanisms of strategic partnership and through new cooperation instruments at the level of government institutions, non-governmental organizations and the private sector. These instruments will serve primarily to create opportunities for quality training and mentoring of scientists, entrepreneurs and innovators; foster targeted bilateral investments in basic and applied research and development, including through targeted grants; support leading universities and scientific research organizations; and provide for joint commercialization of research and development.
  