
    The following listing includes the President's daily schedule and other items of general interest as announced by the White House Press Office during the period covered by this issue. Events and announcements printed elsewhere in the issue are not included.
June 23
Following his arrival in Houston, Tex., the President attended receptions for Representative Bob Gammage of Texas and sponsors of the Democratic fundraising dinner at which he later spoke. He also met with representatives of the Houston Hispanic community.
June 24
During his stay in Houston, the President held separate meetings with representatives of the Houston black community and Texas business executives. He also attended a reception for volunteers who had worked in his 1976 Presidential primary and general election campaigns.
The President returned to the White House from his trip to Texas.
June 26
The President met at the White House with:
—Prime Minister James Callaghan of the United Kingdom;
—Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs;
—Frank B. Moore, Assistant to the President for Congressional Liaison;
—Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare Joseph A. Califano, Jr., and a group of administration officials;
—Vice President Walter F. Mondale;
—Senator Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts.
June 27
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Mr. Moore;
—a bipartisan group of Members of the Senate and House of Representatives;
—Vice President Mondale, Adm. Stansfield Turner, Director of Central Intelligence, Hamilton Jordan, Assistant to the President, and Dr. Brzezinski;
—Mrs. Carter, for lunch;
—Jerry Lewis, national chairman of the Muscular Dystrophy Association;
—James T. Mcintyre, Jr., Director of the Office of Management and Budget.
The President transmitted to the Congress the annual report of the Office of Alien Property, Department of Justice, for fiscal year 1976.
Senator John Glenn of Ohio will be the President's personal representative to the Solomon Islands independence ceremonies held July 5-8 in the capital city of Honiara.
June 28
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Mr. Moore;
—Representative Joseph L. Fisher of Virginia;
—Senate Majority Leader Robert C. Byrd;
—Vice President Mondale, Secretary of the Treasury W. Michael Blumenthal, G. William Miller, Chairman of the Board of Directors, Federal Reserve System, Charles L. Schultze, Chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers, and Mr. Mcintyre.
June 29
The President departed the White House in the morning for a fishing trip off the Virginia coast. He returned to the White House in the evening.
June 30
The President met at the White House with:
—Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance, Secretary of Defense Harold Brown, Dr. Brzezinski, and Mr. Jordan;
—Mr. Moore;
—Mr. Schultze;
—a group of editors and news directors (transcript will be printed next week);
—Father Theodore Hesburgh, U.S. Ambassador to the U.N. Conference on Science and Technology.
Following his visit to the Pentagon, the President departed Washington, D.C., for a week's stay at Camp David, Md.
  