
    
  STATEMENT OF ADMINISTRATION POLICY

(House)
(Rep. Waxman, D-California, and Rep. Markey, D-Massachusetts)
The President has called on Congress to enact forward-looking energy legislation that would spur U.S. development of advanced, clean energy technologies to reduce our dependence on oil, strengthen our energy and national security, create millions of new jobs all across America, and restore America's position as a global leader in efforts to mitigate climate change and address its worst consequences. The Administration commends the House Energy and Commerce Committee for its extraordinary efforts in developing historic bipartisan comprehensive energy and climate legislation that creates the framework to accomplish these goals. The Administration strongly supports House passage of H.R. 2454.
For decades, the energy crisis has largely been ignored, imperiling our economy, our national security, and our planet. The President has challenged all of us to make America the nation that leads the 21st century by unleashing innovation and utilizing advanced technology in the clean energy sector. H.R. 2454 contains authorities to move the country in that direction. This legislation would establish energy efficiency and clean energy requirements for U.S. electric utilities, promote advanced carbon capture and sequestration technology and clean transportation infrastructure and vehicles, and improve energy efficiency in buildings, lighting, and appliances.
H.R. 2454 would, for the first time, create a system of clean energy incentives designed to jumpstart the economy, address carbon pollution, and result in significantly reduced U.S. emissions. The bill contains provisions to protect consumers, keep costs low, help sensitive industries transition to a clean energy economy, and promote domestic emission reduction efforts that will lead to real global emission reductions. This legislation would strengthen U.S. leadership in the global effort to address climate change and encourage other nations in their efforts to prevent deforestation and adopt clean energy technology. Further, the bill would advance ongoing U.S. efforts to understand and adapt to the myriad challenges posed by climate change and assist the most vulnerable countries to address its effects. The Administration strongly supports a robust and effective agriculture and forestry offsets program and appreciates the efforts of the House Energy and Commerce Committee and the House Agriculture Committee toward that end.
As this complex bill moves through the legislative process, the Administration feels strongly that the enacted bill must be consistent with our international obligations and an open and integrated global economic system. It must meet the President's objectives of creating a clean economy through an efficient, cost-effective, and comprehensive approach that leverages the Nation's capacity for innovation, creates jobs, reduces dependence on oil, is consistent with the Administration's financial regulatory reform proposal, and makes the United States a leader in efforts to address climate change.
  