
    Earlier today I signed into law the implementing legislation for two very important United Nations international conventions against terrorism: the International Convention for the Suppression of Terrorist Bombings and the International Convention for the Suppression of the Financing of Terrorism. I thank the Congress, especially the judiciary committees, for its hard work in passing this legislation, which will strengthen our campaign against global terrorism. The Senate gave its advice and consent to ratification of these Conventions last December. Now that this legislation has been enacted, the United States will deposit its instruments of ratification at the United Nations and become a party to these two Conventions.
These two Conventions strengthen international efforts to defeat terrorism of global reach. They underscore—along with 10 other international terrorism conventions— the broad moral consensus that violence against innocent civilians is a criminal act and must be punished. These Conventions also require parties to them to take practical steps to bring terrorists and their supporters to justice. The Terrorist Bombings Convention creates a new and important mechanism for nations to cooperate in investigating and prosecuting terrorist crimes. The International Convention for the Suppression of the Financing of Terrorism strengthens our continuing efforts to cut off the flow of funds to terrorist groups.
In Canada this week, I will be discussing with leaders from other industrialized nations ways we can ensure that all countries take stronger legal measures against terrorism. In particular, I urge all countries to join us in becoming party to these Conventions and fully adhering to U.N. Security Council Resolutions to stop terrorism, particularly U.N. Security Council Resolution 1373, which denies safe haven to terrorists and prohibits terrorist financing, recruitment, and access to weapons and other support. I will continue to work with other leaders around the world to build a consensus that terrorism, whatever the excuse, is unacceptable. Working together, America and the other freedom-loving nations of the world are moving towards a day when our children can live free from the fear of terrorism and free to achieve their dreams.
  