
    President George W. Bush today announced the nomination of seven individuals to serve in his Administration.
The President has nominated Richard A. Anderson, of Georgia, to be a Member of the Internal Revenue Service Oversight Board, for a five-year term expiring 09/14/13. Mr. Anderson is currently the Executive Director of the Georgia Regional Transportation Authority. Prior to this, he served as Group President of Global Business Services at AT&T. Earlier in his career, he served as Vice Chairman and President of Business Markets at BellSouth Corporation. Mr. Anderson received his bachelor's degree and master's degree from Murray State University.
The President has nominated Joseph F. Bader, of the District of Columbia, to be a Member of the Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board, for the remainder of a five-year term expiring 10/18/12. Mr. Bader currently serves as a Member of the Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board. Prior to this, he served as Vice President of Hill International. Mr. Bader received his bachelor's degree from Villanova University and his master's degree from the University of Virginia.
The President has nominated Mark Everett Keenum, of Mississippi, to be a Member of the Farm Credit Administration Board, for the remainder of a six-year term expiring 05/21/14. Dr. Keenum currently serves as Under Secretary for Farm and Foreign Agricultural Services at the Department of Agriculture. Prior to this, he served as Chief of Staff in the Office of Senator Thad Cochran. Earlier in his career, he served as an Assistant Professor and Economist in the Department of Agricultural Economics at Mississippi State University. Dr. Keenum received his bachelor's degree, master's degree and PhD from Mississippi State University.
The President has nominated Mary Lucille Jordan, of Maryland, to be a Member of the Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission. Ms. Jordan currently serves as a Commissioner of the Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission. Prior to this, she served as a Senior Staff Attorney at the United Mine Workers of America. Earlier in her career, she served as an attorney at the Federal Register. Ms. Jordan received her bachelor's degree from St. Bonaventure University and her JD from the Antioch School of Law.
The President has nominated Matthew A. Reynolds, of Massachusetts, to be Assistant Secretary of State (Legislative Affairs). Mr. Reynolds currently serves as Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary in the Bureau of Legislative Affairs at the Department of State. Prior to this, he served as Acting Assistant Secretary in the Bureau of Legislative Affairs at the Department of State. Earlier in his career, he served as Staff Director of the Committee on Rules in the United States House of Representatives. Mr. Reynolds received his bachelor's degree from Georgetown University.
The President has nominated the following individuals to be Members of the Broadcasting Board of Governors:
Peter Robert Kann, of New Jersey, for the remainder of a three-year term expiring 08/13/10;
Michael Meehan, of Virginia, for the remainder of a three-year term expiring 08/13/10.
  