
    TODAY, on the second anniversary of the signing of the United Nations Charter, I am happy to speak for the Government and the people of the United States in saluting the Organization and the ideals of international cooperation which gave it life.
For the last 2 years, the Members of the United Nations have been exerting great effort to build and set in motion its machinery. This process of organization has gone forward in an atmosphere of disturbance and uncertainty, the aftermath of the Second World War. From the very first sessions of its principal components, the United Nations has been asked to contend with some highly controversial international political issues. It has found it necessary to chart new paths of economic and social cooperation in the complexities of a postwar world.
The effectiveness of the United Nations depends upon the Member States meeting all their obligations. Assurance that these obligations will be met depends in turn upon the will of the peoples of the Member States. The vigor of the United Nations stems therefore from a public opinion educated to understand its problems.
The existence of the United Nations obviously affords no guarantee that every international problem can be solved easily, or automatically, or immediately. It should not be a matter for surprise or disillusionment that many issues arising as a result of the war still remain unsettled. The strength of the United Nations rests in the recognition by the Member States that, despite all differences, they have a common interest in the preservation of international peace and in the attainment of international security.
The Member States are not only bound by the Charter, jointly and severally, to execute the decisions of the Organization; they are bound to conduct their day-to-day foreign relations in accordance with the principles of freedom and justice prescribed by the Charter.
During the last 2 years the Government and the people of the United States have demonstrated their support of the United Nations. They have attempted consistently and actively to achieve the purposes set forth in the United Nations Charter--to prevent war, to settle international disputes by peaceful means and in conformity with the principles of justice, to cooperate in securing economic and social advancement, to encourage respect for fundamental human rights and freedoms, and to build genuine security.
The Government and the people of the United States are aware that the realization of these objectives is not easy. They know that it is a continuing task. They will not be discouraged by temporary setback or delay.
The enterprise which was launched at San Francisco 2 years ago is the hope of the world for lasting peace. It provides mankind today with the best opportunity to unite for the preservation of civilization and for the continuation of human progress.
On behalf of the United States Government and its people, I renew the pledge of our utmost efforts to insure the success of the United Nations. We shall do our part.
  