
    TOWARD A STRATEGIC PARTNERSHIP FOR THE 21ST CENTURY
President Barack Obama and President Ollanta Humala reaffirmed today their desire to strengthen the U.S.-Peru relationship by further deepening cooperation on economic prosperity and social inclusion; education; science and technology; and citizen security. The two leaders resolved to continue working together on a diversified cooperative agenda to bolster our relationship and ensure it remains strong and relevant to the challenges and opportunities of the 21st century.
Both Presidents acknowledged the historic relationship between our two nations and reaffirmed their intent to strengthen and deepen it based on shared fundamental values and principles such as democracy, respect for human rights, belief in open markets, and the rule of law.
Both leaders also recognized that the United States and Peru are working to consolidate a strategic partnership for the 21st century that will further enhance security, prosperity and development in the hemisphere.
They also welcomed closer relationships at the state and local level to expand opportunities for mutual cooperation.
ECONOMIC PROSPERITY AND SOCIAL INCLUSION
Underpinning our successful U.S.-Peru economic relationship is the successful implementation of the U.S.-Peru Trade Promotion Agreement, which facilitated nearly $16 billion in bilateral trade in 2012 and supported robust job creation in both countries. The two Presidents noted that in the four years since the Agreement entered into force, the United States and Peru have made it easier for our businesses to trade, further diversified our trading relationship, and continue to work jointly to protect the environment. They reiterated the importance of maintaining regular dialogue on specific proposals for deepening the trading relationship. The two Presidents also reviewed Trans-Pacific Partnership negotiations, including at the 17th negotiating Round hosted by Peru in May, and reaffirmed their shared commitment to conclude negotiations this year.
Both Presidents discussed the importance of taking advantage of economic prosperity to also reduce poverty and inequality. In this context, the leaders noted the importance of public-private partnerships and expressed their belief in sustainable and inclusive economic growth.
The United States welcomed Peru to the Small Business Network of the Americas, wherein the United States will support the establishment of small business development centers in Peru to provide entrepreneurs and small business owners with training and other job creating services.
The two leaders also highlighted joint efforts to expand internet connectivity to rural areas of Peru, apply science and technology to accelerate development, and provide support to 1,000 small- and medium-sized businesses led by Peruvian women entrepreneurs through the Pathways Access Initiative and ongoing Women's Entrepreneurship in the Americas Initiative (WEAmericas). As founding members of the Equal Futures Partnership, Peru and the United States have committed to expand opportunities for women and girls and to promote gender equality across political, economic and social spheres.
The leaders reaffirmed their desire to boost sustainable, inclusive, and balanced growth and job creation; promote productive investment; reform and strengthen the international financial architecture; and enhance multilateral trade. They reiterated their support for a successful ninth WTO Ministerial Meeting, which will take place in December this year in Bali, Indonesia.
The Presidents also highlighted the importance of the "Pacific Alliance," one of the most innovative regional integration initiatives, and underscored its auspicious prospects for deepening trade liberalization and enhancing cooperation between its members.
EDUCATION
The two Presidents highlighted education as an increasingly important strategic priority for both countries, focusing particularly on science, technology, innovation, and competitiveness. Recognizing the economic advantages for both countries of increasing contact between Americans and Peruvians, the United States and Peru launched an Education Policy Dialogue to further facilitate information-sharing and best practices, and to promote linkages to President Obama's 100,000 Strong in the Americas initiative, as well as Peruvian scholarship initiatives such as "Beca 18" and "Beca Presidente de la República." Both presidents also welcomed joint efforts to provide high-quality English language training and instruction to Peruvian teachers and students.
Both Presidents recognized the importance of cultural heritage to their respective nations and expressed willingness to continuously strengthen bilateral cooperation to prevent illicit traffic of cultural heritage property and restore it to its country of origin in accordance with bilateral and multilateral agreements to which both countries are party.
SCIENCE AND THE ENVIRONMENT
Both nations resolved to work together to address the impact of global climate change. The two leaders welcomed the signing of a Memorandum of Understanding that lays out measures to enhance Peru's capacity to design and implement a Low Emissions Development Strategy. Through the design and implementation of such actions, the United States and Peru intend to work together to reduce emissions from Peru's largest greenhouse gas emission sources.
The two countries also intend promote clean energy and energy security throughout Peru under the auspices of the Energy and Climate Partnership of the Americas, and the "Connecting the Americas 2022" initiative. President Obama and President Humala affirmed their decision to work together toward successful outcomes at the international negotiations on climate change. This cooperation includes working together to building a new international climate regime that is ambitious, effective, and can attract the participation of all parties.
They welcomed strong and deepening cooperation on environmental related science and technology issues between the two nations, including the ongoing collaboration and exchange of experts between the U.S. National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration and the Instituto del Mar del Perú in the field of maritime matters, and the further establishment of a framework agreement between both institutions.
ENHANCING CITIZEN SECURITY
The two leaders reiterated their shared interest in enhancing citizen security, highlighting the importance of strengthening institutions that build and sustain the rule of law, protect human rights, and improve public security over the long-term.
President Obama applauded Peru's participation in the UN Stabilization Mission in Haiti, where Peruvian peacekeeping forces have been continuously deployed since the mission's establishment in 2004. President Humala welcomed U.S. support for the Peruvian National Police, including educational opportunities and training on enhanced community policing.
Highlighting the threat posed by narcotics trafficking to both countries, President Obama reaffirmed U.S. commitment to partnering with Peru to combat the production and trafficking of illicit narcotics. President Humala welcomed President Obama's intent to increase counternarcotics and alternative development assistance to Peru by more than $20 million to provide additional support for the implementation of the Government of Peru's counternarcotics strategy. The two leaders also applauded joint initiatives to: reduce the production of cocaine and further advance an inclusive and sustainable alternative development strategy in coca-growing regions, noting successes with cacao and coffee; investigate and prosecute organized criminal organizations; support Peru's transition to a new criminal procedure code; and strengthen cooperation to combat money laundering and financial crimes.
The two leaders agreed to develop closer bilateral defense ties, and welcomed the progress made in the negotiations toward a robust new Defense Cooperation Agreement between the United States and Peru intended to address shared security challenges and threats such as drug trafficking, terrorism, proliferation, and natural disasters.
The United States and Peru also welcomed the signature of the Megaports initiative agreement to begin a cooperative effort to detect, deter, and interdict illicit smuggling of nuclear and other radioactive material.
The presidents expressed their mutual commitment to the Open Government Partnership as a means of enhancing transparency, government accountability to citizens, fighting corruption and encouraging citizen participation.
Presidents Obama and Humala will remain in close consultation on these and other issues of mutual interest in order to further the partnership between our nations.
  