
    The following listing contains releases of the White House Press Office which are not included in this issue.
Released June 11, 1979
News conference: on changes in the Federal timber policy as an anti-inflation measure-by Alfred E. Kahn, Advisor to the President on Inflation, Secretary of Agriculture Bob Bergland, and John R. McGuire, Chief of the Forest Service, Department of Agriculture
Fact sheet: departure from even-flow timber
harvest on Federal lands
Announcement: nomination of George Arceneaux, Jr., to be United States District Judge for the Eastern District of Louisiana
Released June 12, 1979
News conference: on the National Health Plan—by Stuart E. Eizenstat, Assistant to the President for Domestic Affairs and Policy, and Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare Joseph A. Califano, Jr.
Released June 13, 1979
News conference: on proposed hazardous waste disposal legislation—by Douglas M. Costle, Administrator, and Thomas C. Jorling, Assistant Administrator for Water and Hazardous Materials, Environmental Protection Agency, James W. Moorman, Assistant Attorney General, Land and Natural Resources Division, and Mr. Eizenstat Announcement: nomination of Otto R. Skopil, Jr., to be United States Circuit Judge for the Ninth Circuit
Announcement: nomination of Patrick E. Carr to be United States District Judge for the Eastern District of Louisiana Announcement: nomination of Lynn C. Higby to be United States District Judge for the Northern District of Florida
Announcement: nomination of Robert L. Vining, Jr., to be United States District Judge
for the Northern District of Georgia Announcement: nomination of Robert J. Staker to be United States District Judge for the Southern District of West Virginia Announcement: visit of President-elect Jaime Roldos of Ecuador
Announcement: appointment of Marshall Brement to the National Security Council staff in charge of Soviet-Eastern European affairs and East-West relations
Announcement: appointment of Gerald G. Oplinger to the National Security Council staff in charge of nuclear nonproliferation issues
Released June 14, 1979
Advance text: remarks on departure from the White House for a trip to Vienna, Austria
  