
    Governor Dwinell, Mr. Speaker, distinguished guests and my fellow Americans:
I wonder whether your imaginations could picture yourself the recipient of such a glowing commendation as has been heaped upon me by your Governor and by the people of this State for whom he spoke?
If your imaginations are equal to that task, then you must know something of how I feel, you must know how inadequate are words in any effort to reply effectively and truly feelingly. I can only say I am overwhelmed by your kindness.
Now, I had many reasons for coming on this trip. The simplest one of all, the one that explains it best, is merely a matter of self-education.
No man in responsible office can ever know enough about this country. He must seize opportunities to go and learn. And he finds there are spots that he has visited less than, possibly, some others. One of the great gaps in my education is that I have not visited this northern tier of the New England group as much as I should have liked.
And so I am seizing the opportunity between a speech out in California and possibly even more prolonged talking in Europe to come here to mingle with you, to learn something of what you are thinking, to gain strength from you.
There are among you many of my old comrades of the Armed Services, people who served with me in war and peace. And they will know from their courses in staff colleges, and listening to lectures, that the commander often visits his troops, and the purpose is supposed to be to inspire them to do their duty better, to carry on in better fashion, to do the work that they are sent into the field to do.
I found early in war that this whole process was reversed in my case. I went out to visit the troops so that I could come back and do my job better.
My admiration for the young American on the battlefield is unexcelled. And I have found in later times that my admiration for his counterpart in every hamlet, every city, every farm of America is exactly the same.
When I feel that I have gotten a grip on what Americans are thinking, then I am perfectly certain that I am right.
In these feeble words, I am trying to tell you the serious reason for my visit among you. There are some reasons not quite so serious in character.
In my White House staff we have a lecture every morning. The chief of the staff has one subject: New Hampshire. Most of us have had a bit of education--we have unquestionably learned something--but above all things we have had our curiosity excited. We want to find out whether the golf greens are greener, the fish are bigger, more plentiful and more cooperative, whether the hills are really as beautiful as he says, whether all of the people are as healthy and strong and completely independent and virile--well!--all of the good words that we apply to people. I expect to find every one of them here.
People often ask me what my ideas are on how long I would like a residence in 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue. My own thought is: they should ask how long it is going to take Governor Adams to finish up his series of lectures on New Hampshire, because he doesn't seem to be a third of the way through them yet.
In any event, just to know you is a great honor. To have heard the words I have heard is a greater one.
I hope in the next day or two to see as much of each of you, perhaps have the great privilege of greeting some of you individually, or shaking you by the hand, talking to you, if even for a brief moment. If I do have that privilege, I assure you that it is one I shall treasure.
If I do not, I would ask you to remember that I wanted to do so. This is one of the great days of my life, marred only by the fact that Mrs. Eisenhower could not be with me, because she would have enjoyed it just as much as I.
Thank you very much.
  