
    President Bush. I'm so honored to have a chance to visit with you again, Mr. Prime Minister. I look forward to our discussions. We've got great relations, and relations with Canada are, as far as I'm concerned, very important relations.
And we will continue our discussions on mad cow and softwood lumber. You've always been a strong advocate of Canadian interests, of course, and I appreciate that. Hopefully we can resolve the mad cow quickly—that you've asked me to do and that we will continue to work on a softwood lumber agreement that's beneficial to both countries.
Canada is a great friend, and you've been very cooperative at figuring out ways to cooperate in the war on terror. The Prime Minister has got a clear vision about the dangers that face the free world, and for that I'm grateful too. So I look forward to our discussions, sir.
Prime Minister Martin. Well, thank you very much. First of all, Mr. President, I thank you for having us all here. This is an absolutely spectacular, beautiful spot. And I think that we're all very, very glad to be here.
In terms of the war on terror, this is a—we feel every bit as strongly about it as you. And the fact is that we are all at peril here, and we have all got to win this war. And Canada certainly intends to do our part, and we stand with you foursquare in the battle against global terrorism.
If you'll also allow me simply to say, now that I'm here, I really—certainly on my own behalf and on behalf of all of the Canadian people, how—how much we regret the passing of President Reagan and what a tremendous contribution he made to the free world. I don't think there's any doubt that he is one of the great influential people in the second half of the last century. His effect in bringing the cold war to an end is one for which historians will laud him forever. And so I think that you— at the same time, while you feel very badly, I'm sure you feel very, very proud, and I think the American people can feel proud.
President Bush. Thank you, Paul. Appreciate it.
  