
    WASHINGTON, DC – Today, President Obama nominated Charlene Honeywell and Jeffrey Viken to Federal District Court judgeships.
"I am honored today to put forward the names of two distinguished Americans to serve on the Federal bench," said President Obama. "They represent the very best that our country has to offer in the way of excellence and public service. They are hardworking, fair-minded, tenacious and dedicated. We are fortunate that these two extraordinary individuals are willing to assume the awesome responsibilities associated with serving as a trial judge in the federal system. "
Judge Charlene Honeywell: Nominee for Middle District of Florida 
Judge Honeywell currently serves as a Circuit Court Judge for the Thirteenth Judicial Circuit of Florida. She was appointed to that position by Gov. Jeb Bush in 2000. Judge Honeywell graduated from Howard University cum laude in May 1979 and from the University of Florida's College of Law in December 1981. From 1982 to 1985, she served in the Tallahassee Public Defender's Office and then spent two years as an assistant public defender in the Tampa Public Defender's Office. From 1987 to 1994, she worked as an Assistant City Attorney for the City of Tampa and then spent six years at the Tampa law firm Hill, Ward & Henderson. In 1994, Judge Honeywell served as a County Court Judge for the Thirteenth Judicial Circuit in Florida. She has also served a four year term on the Florida Federal Judicial Nominating Commission. Judge Honeywell received a well-qualified rating from the ABA and is being nominated to the District Court for the Middle District of Florida.
Jeffrey Viken: Nominee for District of South Dakota 
Jeffrey Vikenis currently the Federal Public Defender for North and South Dakota and has served in this capacity since 2003. Mr. Viken received his Bachelor of Arts in 1974 and law degree in 1977 from the University of South Dakota. From 1977 to 1981, Viken was an Assistant U.S. Attorney in the District of South Dakota. During his tenure as an AUSA, he served as First Assistant U.S. Attorney and acting U.S. Attorney. From 1981 to 2003, Viken worked in private practice, specializing in criminal and civil litigation in federal court. Mr. Viken received a well-qualified rating from the ABA and is being nominated to the District Court of South Dakota.
  