
    Pool Reports by Morgan Chalfant, The Hill 



Sent:
Reports:




June 25, 202111:01

In town pool report #1 
Good morning. I'll be your print pooler today. Passing along the following from the White House.
In a pre-recorded message, the President will join the annual convention of the National Newspaper Publishers Association (NNPA), a trade association representing over 200 Black-owned community newspapers around the country. The President will thank attendees for the work they do to tell important stories, and he will celebrate 81 years of the NNPA as the "Trusted Voice of Black America" and 194 years of the Black press in the U.S.



June 25, 202112:00

In town pool report #2 -- briefing delayed to 12:45pm 
The press briefing with Jen Psaki has now been delayed until 12:45pm.
We've got a busy afternoon on our hands. Below is President Biden's schedule for today, according to the White House guidance. In addition to the briefing, both the 1:30pm and 2pm events will be streamed at https://www.whitehouse.gov/live/ but I will send any color from inside the room.
1:30 PM THE PRESIDENT signs H.R. 49, To designate the National Pulse Memorial, into law; THE FIRST LADY also attendsSouth Court AuditoriumIn-House Pool Coverage (Final Gather 1:15 PM – Stakeout Location)
2:00 PM THE PRESIDENT and the Secretary of Transportation deliver remarks to commemorate LGBTQ+ Pride Month; THE FIRST LADY also attendsEast RoomIn-House Pool and Pre-Credentialed Media Coverage (Final Gather 1:45 PM – Palm Room Doors)
3:30 PM THE PRESIDENT welcomes His Excellency Mohammad Ashraf Ghani, President of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan, and His Excellency Dr. Abdullah Abdullah, Chairman of the High Council for National Reconciliation of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan, to the White HouseOval OfficeRestricted In-House Pool Spray at the Top (Final Gather 3:10 PM – Brady Press Briefing Room)
5:10 PM THE PRESIDENT departs the White House en route Camp DavidSouth LawnExpanded In-House Pool Coverage (Final Gather 4:50 PM – Palm Room Doors)



June 25, 202112:50

In town pool report #3 -- two-minute warning 
Two minute warning to the press briefing.



June 25, 202112:52

In town pool report #4 -- briefing begins 
The press briefing began at 12:52pm.



June 25, 202113:35

In town pool report #5 -- briefing concludes 
The press briefing concluded at 1:35pm. Pool is gathering immediately for the bill signing.



June 25, 202113:56

In town pool report #6 - two min warning 
Pool is set up in the South Court Auditorium. Two minute warning until the event starts.
You can watch the event athttps://www.whitehouse.gov/live/



June 25, 202113:58

In town pool report #7 — event begins 
President Biden and First Lady Jill Biden entered the room for the bill signing at 1:57pm.
Passing along the following from the WH —
Senator Tammy Baldwin (WI)Rep. David Cicilline (RI-01)Rep. Sharice Davids (KS-03)Rep. Val Demings (FL-10)Rep. Jennifer Gonzalez-Colon (Resident Commissioner, Puerto Rico)Rep. Mondaire Jones (NY-17)Rep. Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18)Rep. Stephanie Murphy (FL-07)Rep. Mark Pocan (WI-02)Rep. Darren Soto (FL-09)Rep. Mark Takano (CA-41)Rep. Ritchie Torres (NY-15)Mayra Alvear, mother of Amanda AlvearDaniel Alvear, father of Amanda AlvearNeema Bahrami, survivorEarl Crittenden, Board Chairman, OnePULSE FoundationKim Vierlma, sister of Luis Sergio VielmaBrandon Wolf, survivor



June 25, 202114:07

In town pool report #8 - event concludes 
Signing event concluded at 2:53. President Biden said during the event that he spoke to Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis. Pool now hustling to the East Room where Biden will give remarks on Pride Month. --



June 25, 202114:17

In town pool report #9 - East Room 
Pool is set up in the East Room, where several guests are seated to watch the president’s remarks. Pool spotted HHS assistant secretary for health Rachel Levine, Sen. Chris Coons, Alphonso David of the Human Rights Campaign in the audience.
Outside the East Room, the Ground Floor Corridor is lit up in rainbow colors for Pride Month. A military orchestra is also playing.



June 25, 202114:26

In town pool report #10 - event begins 
President Biden and Transportation Secretary Pete Buttigieg entered the room at 2:25pm and the event is beginning.
Again, this event is streaming at the below link:
https://www.whitehouse.gov/live/
Attendees from the White House:
Attendees at the President’s remarks include:

Members of the Congressional Equality Caucus, including Senator Tammy Baldwin, Congressman David Cicilline, and more.
History-making members of the Administration who are openly LGBTQ+, including Sec. Pete Buttigieg and Dr. Rachel Levine.
One of the highest-ranking openly trans servicemember, Lt. Col. Bree Fram.
State legislative leaders like Delaware State Sen. Sarah McBride, Virginia Del. Danica Roem, and Pennsylvania State Rep. Malcom Kenyatta.
Young transgender advocates and their families, such as Stella Keating and Ashton Mota of the GenderCool Project.
Leaders of LGBTQ+ organization, including Human Rights Campaign President David Alphonso, GLAAD CEO Sarah Kate Ellis, PFLAG Executive Director Brian Bond, and more.
Survivors of the Pulse Nightclub shooting like Brandon Wolf




June 25, 202114:59

In town pool report #11 — event highlights 
Secretary Buttigieg's remarks gathered periodic claps and nods from people in the audience. Audience cheered clapped as he recognized Rachel Levine and she stood in the audience.
Buttigieg introduced a 16-year-old transgender advocate, Ashton Mota from Lowell, Massachusetts. Mota is a leader with the GenderCool Project. He delivered a personal speech about his transition and his advocacy for transgender youths, and emphasized the need to pass the Equality Act. He also thanked President Biden for the actions taken by his administration.
"Mr. President, thank you for having our back."
President Biden received a standing ovation and began speaking at 2:39pm. He quipped that Ashton looked comfortable at the podium.
"Pride is back at the White House," Biden said to a thunder of applause.
He talked about walking through the rainbow hallway "lit with the colors of pride" that he walks by every morning.
He also pointed out two members of the audience whose wedding he said he officiate.
Biden highlighted the executive order he signed to root out discrimination against LGBTQ+ people, which he said was his first executive order, as well as other actions by his administration.
Biden said the his administration is making equality a centerpiece of its foreign policy agenda, noting that pride flags are flying at over 130 US embassies around the world. He also announced Jessica Stern as his US special envoy for LGBTQI+ rights at the State Department.
He also called on Congress to pass the Equality Act.
He described anti-transgender bills in states as "nothing but bullying disguised as legislation."
"These young people aren't hurting anyone but these laws are hurting them and they have got to stop," Biden said.



June 25, 202115:59

In town pool report #12- gathering
Pool is now gathering in the briefing room ahead of the meeting between President Biden and Afghanistan President Ghani in the Oval Office. --



June 25, 202116:22

In town pool report #13 - meeting 
Pool was ushered into the Oval at 4:14pm.
President Biden was seated with President Ghani and Chairman Abdullah.
President Biden said it is good to see two old friends, said he met with both of them before.
"It's good to have them here in the White House."
He said US support for Afghanistan was not ending and would be sustained.
"Afghans are going to have to decide their future, what they want"
He said the "senseless violence has to stop."
President Ghani then spoke and expressed gratitude to the United States. He said Afghanistan respects Biden's decision.
"We are determined to have unity, coherence"
He said the Afghanistan security forces have retaken six districts today.
Biden was asked at the end of the meeting about the Chauvin verdict, he said he didn't have all the details but under the guidelines it seemed to be appropriate.
Pool ushered out around 4:19pm.
I'll have full quotes ASAP.



June 25, 202116:34

In town pool report #14 -- Chauvin quote 
Question: Do you have a reaction to Derek Chauvin being sentenced to 22.5 years in prison?
Biden: "I don't know all the circumstances that were considered but it seems to me, under the guidelines, that seems to be appropriate."
Thanks to the AP's Darlene Superville for lending a good recording of the quote.
More quotes coming.



June 25, 202116:48

In town pool report #15 -- CSPAN link 
Quotes incoming momentarily, but here's the CSPAN link of the pool spray in the Oval: https://www.c-span.org/video/?512963-1/president-biden-meets-afghanistan...



June 25, 202117:00

In town pool report #16 - quotes 
Full quotes from the meeting:
President Biden:
"Well, it's good to see two old friends. We met many, many times in Afghanistan for long hours and they're welcome here.""They've had a chance to meet with all the major players in the administration, from the Secretary of the Defense to the CIA, across the board, and it's good to have them here in the White House. The partnership between Afghanistan and the United States is not ending. It's going to be sustained. And you know our troops may be leaving but our support for Afghanistan is not ending in terms of support and maintenance of helping maintain their military as well as economic and political support. And they both got very difficult jobs. Every time I think I've got a tough job I think of Mr. President," Biden said, gesturing to Ghani, who chuckled.
"But seriously, they're doing important work, trying to bring about unity among Afghan leaders, across the board, and Afghans are going to have to decide their future, what they want, what they want. But it would be for lack of us being help."
"The senseless violence has to stop but it's going to be very difficult. But we're going to stick with you and we're going to do our best to see to it you have the tools you need."
President Ghani:
"First of all, let me pay tribute to the 2,448 Americans who paid the ultimate sacrifice, over a million American veterans who have served with honor and dignity for your security and our freedom. The United States has not spared any effort in blood or treasure during these years. As a grateful nation I want to acknowledge that and ask you, thank the gold star families."
"Second, President Biden's decision has been historic. It has made everybody recalculate and reconsider. We are here to respect it and support it.""Third, we are entering into a new chapter of our relationship where the partnership of the United States will not be military but comprehensive regarding our mutual interest and we're very encouraged and satisfied that this partnership is taking place. Thank you for ordering the priorities.""The Afghan nation is a nation is an 1861 moment, like President Lincoln. Rallying to the defense of the republic, determined that the republic is defended. It's a choice of values, the values of an exclusionary system or an inclusionary system. We are determined to have unity, coherence, national sense of sacrifice and will not spare anything.""Just for your information, today, the Afghan Defense and Security Forces have retaken six districts, both in the south and the north.""Let us understand that in great moments of transition, things happen but you will see that with determination, with unity and with the partnership, we will overcome all odds."



June 25, 202117:01

In town pool report #17 -- participants 
From the White House --
Participants at the President’s meeting with Afghani leaders:
USThe PresidentT.H. Lloyd Austin, Secretary of DefenseT.H. Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security AffairsT.H. Brian McKeon, Deputy Secretary of State for Management and ResourcesT.H. Samantha Power, Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development.T.H. Ross Wilson, Chargé d'affaires of the Embassy of the United States to AfghanistanT.H. Sumona Guha, Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for South Asia, National Security Council
AfghanistanHis Excellency Mohammad Ashraf Ghani, President of the Islamic Republic of AfghanistanH.E. Dr. Abdullah Abdullah, Chairman of the High Council for National ReconciliationH.E. Amrullah Saleh, First Vice President of the Islamic Republic of AfghanistanMr. M. Haneef Atmar, Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Islamic Republic of AfghanistanMr. Hamdullah Mohib, National Security Advisor of the Islamic Republic of AfghanistanMrs. Habiba Sarabi, Member of the Peace Negotiation Team of AfghanistanMr. Abdul Matin Bek, Member of the Peace Negotiation Team of Afghanistan



June 25, 202117:25

In town pool report #18 - meeting over 
Pool is told that the meeting with the Afghanistan leaders is now over. President Biden is due to depart for Camp David this evening, though we are waiting for an updated gather time.



June 25, 202118:11

In town pool report #19 - gathering for departure 
Pool is gathering now for the president’s departure from the South Lawn to Camp David. --



June 25, 202118:50

In town pool report #20 — departure and lid 
President Biden emerged from the Oval Office at 6:43pm. He waved to the pool but didn’t stop to take questions. Marine One lifted off from the South Lawn at 6:46pm. Several staffers watched from the White House balcony and applauded as the helicopter lifted off.
We have a travel/photo lid. Hope you all have a nice weekend.



June 25, 202118:51

In town pool report #21 
Passing along from the White House —
Traveling with the President and the First Lady on Marine one en route Camp David:- Anthony Bernal, Assistant to the President and Advisor to the First Lady- Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President and Director of Oval Office Operations- Yohannes Abraham, Chief of Staff and Executive Secretary for the National Security Council




 
Pool Reports below by Ching-Yi Chang, Shanghai Media Group 



Sent:
Reports:




June 25, 202114:59

Foreign Pool Report #1 Afghanistan President's Visit Background Info 
Good afternoon! I am Ching-Yi Chang, your foreign pooler today.
Right before the meeting between President Biden and President Ghani, here's some background information which you may find useful.
Today, President Biden and President Ghani will have their first face-to-face meeting since President Biden took office, but President Ghani is no stranger to the White House. He visited the White House in May 2015 and met with then President Obama (your foreign pooler also covered their joint press conference).
President Ghani started his first term in 2014 and was reelected again, beating out his competitor Abdullah Abdullah. Ghani and Abdullah eventually formed a national unity government. Both men will visit the White House together and Dr. Abdullah's title is Chairman of the High Council for National Reconciliation.
According to multiple sources, President Ghani, who arrived in Washington DC yesterday (June 24th), is accompanied by First Vice President Amrullah Saleh, Foreign Minister Haneef Atmar, National Security Adviser Hamdullah Mohib, the Head of Human Rights Commission Shahzad Akba, Representative of Afghanistan to the U.N. Adela Raz, as well as the First Lady of Afghanistan Rula Ghani.
According to ARG (Afghanistan Presidential Palace), the news release states, "During the visit, President Ghani is set to meet with the US President Joe Biden, members of the Congress and other US officials to discuss the new chapter of relations between Afghanistan and the United States and deepening bilateral relations in various areas, particularly the US support for the Afghan National Defense and Security Forces."
On Tuesday, the day before leaving for the White House, Ghani said, President Biden's withdrawal decision is a "game-changing and game-shaping decision", according to Afghanistan's Ariana News.
He is apparently aware of the news report that his government may be toppled within 6 months of U.S.' total withdrawal. He stated previously that the more people point towards a possible collapse of government or hostile takeover, the more they are contributing to anxiety and uncertainty among Afghans.
But President Ghani is seemingly not optimistic about the uncertain future. He said that should Afghanistan be engulfed in intense conflict, like that seen in Syria and Yemen, "no one in the region will be spared. The consequences will be spread."
President Ghani speaks impeccable English, having studied and taught in the U.S. He also obtained U.S. citizenship, but renounced it before his first presidential bid in 2009. So it is expected that he will speak English during the pool spray at 3:10 PM. Your foreign pooler will file the foreign pool report after the pool spray. ???? (tashakor, thank you)!



June 25, 202117:09

Foreign Pool Report #2 Pool Spray 
President Ghani arrived in the White House at 3:58 PM. He waved before he went into the West Wing. President Biden wasn't seen greeting him at the entrance.
At 4:15 PM, your foreign pooler was ushered into the Oval Office. Originally, we were told three leaders will all talk, but in the end, Chairman Abdullah did not talk, which caused a bit of confusion. Both President Biden and President gave roughly 2 minutes remark. So we were ushered out at 4:20 PM.
President Ghani spoke in English, he said that President Biden's decision, "we are here to respect it and support." And both countries are "entering into a new chapter of a relationship". And he said, "just for your information, today, Afghan security forces have retaken six districts," he continued, "so I hope that nobody exaggerating our (inaudible) before something has happened. Let us understand that in moments of great transition, things happen. But you will see that with determination, with the unity and with the partnership. We will overcome all odds."
As always, please check against the official transcript.
Per White House, the participants from Afghanistan side are:
His Excellency Mohammad Ashraf Ghani, President of the Islamic Republic of AfghanistanH.E. Dr. Abdullah Abdullah, Chairman of the High Council for National ReconciliationH.E. Amrullah Saleh, First Vice President of the Islamic Republic of AfghanistanMr. M. Haneef Atmar, Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Islamic Republic of AfghanistanMr. Hamdullah Mohib, National Security Advisor of the Islamic Republic of AfghanistanMrs. Habiba Sarabi, Member of the Peace Negotiation Team of AfghanistanMr. Abdul Matin Bek, Member of the Peace Negotiation Team of Afghanistan
Prior to the meeting with President Biden, President Ghani already had several meetings today, including with Speaker Nancy Pelosi, Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin, and National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan. During the meeting with the Speaker, President Ghani said President Biden's decision is a strategic one, "we respect that decision".
Finally, your foreign pooler found that, so far, it seems President Biden's meetings with foreign leaders in the White House are all in Fridays. With that. I'd like to hope everyone a great weekend.




  