
    Mr. President, Mrs. Asad, Your Excellencies, and distinguished guests:
Mr. President, on behalf of all your guests tonight and particularly your American guests, I express appreciation for this magnificent dinner and for the entertainment which accompanied it.
I was somewhat prepared for this evening by our Secretary of State, Henry Kissinger. He told me of his great respect for your quick intelligence, for your tough negotiating ability, and also for your statesmanship. And you, Mr. President, have told me that there is a Syrian saying to the effect that the guest's respect and admiration for his host is directly measured by the amount of food the guest consumes at the host's dinner.
I can now see why Henry Kissinger gained 7 pounds in his 13 trips to Damascus over the past 30 days. And whenever we wear him out on his other travels throughout the world, we will send him back here to build him up.
And tonight, in addition to complimenting those who prepared this magnificent dinner, all of them and those who served it so beautifully, may I pay respects on behalf of all our guests and your guests tonight to the cultural groups who entertained us so beautifully.
And it is my hope, Mr. President, that with the cultural exchange program between our two countries being reestablished, that a group like this--maybe this one--you will choose to send to the United States so that people in Washington and other cities may be able to see it and hear it, as we did tonight.
Mr. President, I am sure you must know how I feel in my position standing here in what is generally agreed to be the oldest continually inhabited city in the world, Damascus, and to realize that this city in 6,000 years has seen more of history than any other continually inhabited city on the whole globe.
And tonight, as you have indicated, this ancient city with its honorable traditions, its great history, sees another event which will mark a new direction in the relations not only between two nations but, we trust, between and among many nations in this part of the world.
That new direction is symbolized by what you have referred to, that this is the first time a President of the United States has ever visited Damascus, has ever stood on Syrian soil. But it symbolizes far more than that.
You have indicated the fact that a first step has been taken toward the just and equitable peace that we want for this area of the world. And you have indicated very eloquently, very directly, very candidly, as you have always done, your concern about what other steps may be taken or should be taken in order that the peace be just and be equitable. You have indicated your concern about such matters as the Palestinians, which we, of course, understand; your concern about your borders, which we, of course, understand; and other matters that are for future negotiations.
I would like to tell you that I have an instant solution for these very complex problems, but you would know with your vast experience in diplomacy and negotiations, as would our other guests here, that I do not bring any instant solution to these problems.
I do know that for 30 years that resort to war by either side, by whatever chance, has not solved these problems.
And I do know that the United States, for that reason as well as for other reasons involving our interests in justice and equity, now is directly involved in attempting to get solutions for these problems through the channels of peace rather than through resort to war.
The fact that a first step has been taken has been credited with very good reason to the persistence and ability of our Secretary of State and his colleagues. But your own statesmanship, your own recognition of what could be accomplished and should be accomplished as a first step, played an indispensable part in obtaining this first disengagement step in this critical area.
Tomorrow we will explore in greater detail all of the factors involved in the problems that you have touched upon tonight.
I can simply state tonight, however, that we do not consider the first step to be the last step. It is a beginning, and a good beginning. But now we must move forward step by step as each case permits it to be done until we reach our goal of a just and equitable peace.
And while, Mr. President, as I said earlier, it would be very easy to make rather overblown promises about what can be accomplished and when it can be accomplished, I can tell you that the United States is committed irreversibly to participating where we can be of assistance in working out an equitable and just peace settlement.
And it is with that spirit of good will, of understanding, and of determination that we will enter our talks tomorrow with you on what various steps can be taken in the future that can be effective.
Having referred to that specific problem, may I return, in conclusion, to the theme which you touched upon so eloquently in your remarks.
America is fortunate to have many of Syrian background as citizens of our country. They are all good American citizens but proud of their Syrian background, and they have enriched the diversity of our American life.
And tonight, Mr. President, as I met you, Mrs. Asad, your wonderful family, had the opportunity to see some exhibits of your culture, I realize how much both of our countries have missed in being apart for so many years over these past 20 years.
As I sensed at this dinner tonight and as I sensed as we rode through Damascus earlier today, it is natural for Syrians and Americans to be friends. It is not natural for us to be enemies. And I would hope and trust that we would never again allow differences to drive us apart as they have over these past few years.
We will not always agree, just as friends do not always agree. But as friends, we will learn from each other, and we will work together for a goal to which we are both deeply dedicated, the cause of peace not only between and among the nations in this area but for all peoples in the world.
And so, I think we can safely say that after 6,000 years of history, this great city is seeing again something happening, something that will change not only the relations between our two countries but something that can change the world and make it a better world for all of us.
And for that and many other reasons, Mr. President, Mrs. Nixon and I, Dr. Kissinger, and all of your American guests are proud to be here tonight in your company as your guests.
  