
    THE PRESIDENT. I'd like to say this morning, after the discussion with His Majesty King Hussein and his advisers, that the talks have indeed been very fruitful. We've explored the common basis on which we will cooperate in the future, as we have in the past. We've had thorough discussions of what might be done to alleviate tensions in the Middle East and to deal with the threats to stability and security in the Persian Gulf and Southwest Asia regions. We've talked about the possibility of economic progress in the region, both before and after a full and comprehensive and just peace is realized.
His Majesty knows that the United States and Israel and Egypt are all determined to proceed with the Camp David process. We believe it has the best chance for success. His Majesty has expressed on many occasions his concern about the limitations of the Camp David process, and we've not tried to change each other's minds about the approach or the technique or the procedure to be used. But we do agree completely with the ultimate goals, that is, the solution of the Palestinian question in all its aspects, the right of the Palestinians to have a voice in the determination of their own future, the security of Israel, and a comprehensive and just peace for the region. So, in almost every instance our ultimate goals are parallel or the same, and we have explored ways to resolve the differences in our approach to the technique or the procedure to be used in reaching those goals.
I'm very deeply grateful for the visit by King Hussein to our country again. And the outpouring of affection that has been evidenced among the Americans who have welcomed him is indicative again of the high esteem in which he's held personally and of the strength of the friendships that bind our two nations and our two people together.
King Hussein, welcome again. And I'm very grateful to you for the progress that we've made and for your advice and counsel, which will be very beneficial to me in the future.
THE KING. Mr. President, I'd like to thank you once again, sir, for giving me this opportunity to visit with you; to have extremely fruitful and comprehensive talks on all matters of mutual interest regarding the problems within our area and within the world as a whole, and ways and means of closer cooperation, with some better understanding of our respective positions; to make our contributions, to overcome difficulties, and to make progress towards dear objectives. I've had the opportunity once again to express my feelings and the feelings of my countrymen of determination to see the friendship that has existed between our two countries hopefully grow stronger in all fields and areas, the feelings that these contacts between us are important and necessary and are of great benefit during these times and in the face of the challenge before us.
We understand better the United States position. We've had the chance and opportunity to bring to you and our friends in the United States our feelings that a just and comprehensive peace must come in the area. We will do all we can towards that end, but it can only come as a result of a solution to the Palestinian problem, which would give the people of Palestine their legitimate rights on their soil, rights of self-determination, rights to express themselves and forge their future, with all confidence that their desire and yearning is for peace, a life of dignity and peace and security. And in the area of security, what we seek once peace is established, a just peace, a lasting peace, a security for all, all there now, in the near future, and in the future in the broadest sense.
The challenge is there, the objectives are clear, we will do all we can, and hopefully we will respond to what is within us in the way of genuine and sincere feelings and the drive that is there and which is shared by the rest of the world and the world community as well.
I thank you very much indeed, sir, for all your kindness, for the warm reception-it's made us feel at home and amongst friends once again—for the privilege of being with you. And I look forward to the great pleasure of continuing our contacts and, hopefully, fruitful cooperation to serve our common objectives.
Thank you, sir, very, very much.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you, Your Majesty.
  