
    The President today announced the appointments of the 1984-1985 White House fellows. This is the 20th class of fellows since the program began in 1964.
The 13 fellows were chosen from among 1,247 applicants and screened by 11 regional panels. The President's Commission on White House fellowships, chaired by Vice Adm. James B. Stockdale, USN (Ret.), interviewed the 33 national finalists before recommending the 13 persons to the President. Their year of government service will begin September 1, 1984.
The 1984-1985 White House fellows are:
Lew W. Cramer, 35, of Glendale, CA; attorney and partner, Argue, Freston, Pearson, Harbison & Myers; and adjunct professor, Graduate School of Business Administration, University of Southern California, Los Angeles;
MacArthur Deshazer, 38, of Hollandale, MS; major, United States Army, Deputy Commanding Officer, the School Brigade, Fort Bliss, TX;
Jose C. Feliciano, 34, of Cleveland, OH; chief police prosecutor of Cleveland;
Charles L. Hirsch, 26, of Pennington, NJ; director, division of economic development, New Jersey Department of Commerce, Trenton;
Thomas C. Leppert, 29, of Los Angeles, CA; engagement manager, McKinsey & Co., Inc., Los Angeles;
Stephen C. Mott, 34, of Stamford, CT; director of marketing, MCI International, Rye Brook, NY;
Patrick A. Putignano, 32, of Park Ridge, NJ; major, United States Army, assistant professor, department of social science, United States Military Academy, West Point, NY;
Bruce K. Scott, 33, of Falls Church, VA; major, United States Army; Olmsted Scholar, John F. Kennedy School of Government, Harvard University, Boston, MA;
Teresa B. Smith, 27, of Baltimore, MD; senior electrical engineer, Westinghouse Electric Corp., Defense Center Advanced Technology Laboratories, Baltimore;
Richard D. Stamberger, 25, of Washington, DC; director of special projects, the National Cable Television Association, Washington, DC;
J. Scott Wheeler, 36, of Harker Heights, TX; major, United States Army, aide to the Commanding General of III Corps and Fort Hood, Fort Hood, TX;
Linda C. White, 27, of Richmond, VA; supervisor of cost accounting, Philip Morris U.S.A., Richmond;
J. Robert Wood, 34, of Davenport, IA; major, United States Army, assistant professor of economics, United States Military Academy, West Point, NY.
Fellows serve for 1 year as special assistants to the Vice President, members of the Cabinet, and the President's principal staff. In addition to the work assignment, the fellowship includes an education program which parallels and broadens the unique experience of working at the highest levels of the Federal Government.
The program is open to U.S.. citizens in the early stages of their careers and from all occupations and professions. Federal Government employees are not eligible, with the exception of career Armed Forces personnel.
Leadership, character, intellectual and professional ability, and commitment to community and nation are the principal criteria employed in the selection of fellows.
Applications for the 1985-1986 program are available from the President's Commission on White House Fellowships, 712 Jackson Place NW, Washington, DC 20503.
  