
    The DeSantis Family joined Nevadans at local events over the weekend
Florida Governor Ron DeSantis, First Lady Casey DeSantis, and their children, Madison (6), Mason (5), and Mamie DeSantis (3), spent the weekend in Nevada. His trip to the Silver State began Friday night when Governor DeSantis and the First Lady spoke to veterans and served beers at VFW Post 9211 ("the Bunker") in Sparks. Afterward, the DeSantis family enjoyed the 104th Reno Rodeo, and the governor was the first presidential candidate to attend the event. The trip culminated with the 8th Annual Morning in Nevada PAC's Basque Fry earlier today, where DeSantis addressed a crowd of 2,500+ as the featured speaker of the event.
"This country is in decline. But decline is not inevitable. It is a choice - a choice we, as Americans, must make over these next 18 months. I'm running for President because I want to reverse that decline. I'm not interested in being like some of these other Republicans, who will manage the decline a little better than the Democrats. I have no interest in managing decline. We are going to reverse the decline.
We will be an energetic executive. We will lean in, and we will go on offense. We're going to repeal and reverse Biden's disastrous economic policies that are making your life more difficult and making your groceries cost more.
I believe we have it within our capacity to reverse the decline in this country and restore this country to its proper greatness. That's going to be our mission over these next 18 months. We all have a role to play. We can win the state of Nevada in November of 2024. We need to win the state of Nevada in November of 2024. Make no mistake about it!"Governor DeSantis conducted with interviews with Nevada-syndicated KRNV and Megan Barth of the Nevada Globe.
The Basque heritage is rich in Nevada, and the yearly event is a proud state tradition that features music, activities for kids, and food.
Nevadans welcomed the DeSantis family with warmth and enthusiasm. As reported in the Daily Mail, Ron DeSantis "charmed a Nevada rodeo crowd alongside his all-American family during a presidential campaign stop on Friday evening."
This weekend marks Ron DeSantis' first visit to the Silver State of many.
  