
    [Dated June 5, 1975. Released June 6, 1975]
Memorandum for: the Secretary of State, the Secretary of the Treasury, the Secretary of Agriculture, the Secretary of Commerce, the Secretary of Labor, the Special Representative for Trade Negotiations, the Director, Office of Management and Budget, the Chairman, Council of Economic Advisers, the Executive Director of the Council on International Economic Policy, the Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs, the Executive Director of the Domestic Council
This memorandum supersedes the memorandum of March 3, 1972 which established a Special Working Group for Textile Trade Policy within the Council on International Economic Policy. That Special Working Group is hereby terminated and a new working group is hereby established in lieu thereof. This new working group will be chaired by the Special Representative for Trade Negotiations and will, in addition, consist of Under Secretaries of State, the Treasury, Agriculture, Commerce and Labor and the Executive Director of the Council on International Economic Policy. The chairman and each member of the Group may designate a senior policy official from their respective agencies to serve as an alternate member of the Group.
The duties of this new working group, hereinafter referred to as the Textile Trade Policy Group, are as follows:
1. Advise generally with respect to policies affecting actions by the United States concerning international trade in textiles and textile products under Section 204 of the Agricultural Act of 1956, as amended, and other laws.
2. Establish procedures by which the Committee for the Implementation of Textile Agreements shall, under the policy guidance of the Textile Trade Policy Group, take actions with respect to the rights and obligations of the United States under Articles 3 and 8 of the Arrangement Regarding International Trade in Textiles, and with respect to any other matter affecting textile trade policy.
3. Develop policy proposals with respect to the negotiation of additional bilateral and multilateral textile trade agreements.
4. Authorize and provide for the negotiation of bilateral agreements regarding international trade in textiles which it determines to be appropriate with representatives of governments of foreign countries.
The Committee for the Implementation of Textile Agreements will submit to the Textile Trade Policy Group such reports and recommendations concerning textile trade policy and the implementation of textile trade agreements as the Textile Trade Policy Group may request.
The Committee for the Implementation of Textile Agreements, acting through its chairman, will continue to supervise the implementation of rights and obligations of the United States under textile trade agreements.
GERALD R. FORD
  