
    Pool Reports by Jeff Mordock, The Washington Times 



Sent:
Reports:




June 1, 2023 07:30 MDT

Travel Pool Report #1 —- gathering
The pool has gathered in the lobby of the RON ahead of the 7:30 call time.
POTUS schedule has not changed and it's below.
MDT
7:30 AM Out-of-Town Pool Call Time
9:40 AM THE PRESIDENT delivers the commencement address at the United States Air Force Academy Falcon Stadium, El Paso County, Colorado Open Press    2:20 PM THE PRESIDENT departs Colorado Springs, Colorado en route to Joint Base Andrews Peterson Air Force Base, Colorado Springs, Colorado Out-of-Town Pool
EDT
6:00 PM In-Town Pool Call Time    7:40 PM THE PRESIDENT departs Joint Base Andrews en route to the White House Joint Base Andrews Out-of-Town Pool 
7:50 PM THE PRESIDENT arrives at the White House  South Lawn Open Press(Gather 7:40 PM – Palm Room Doors) 


June 1, 2023 08:47 MDT

Travel Pool Report #2 —- Rolling
The motorcade is rolling to the Air Force Academy at 8:46
Your pooler spotted POTUS entering the beast in a brief glimpse from inside the press pool van.
Just a reminder you can watch POTUS speech here
https://www.whitehouse.gov/live/ 


June 1, 2023 09:16 MDT

Travel Pool Report #3 — Arrival
The motorcade arrived at the Air Force Academy Falcon Stadium at 9:15.
Lots of onlookers filming the motorcade as it drove down the highway.
Your pooler did not see POTUS exit the beast. Pool is now making its way to the press staging area.
Per White House, here is who traveled with POTUS to Air Force Academy graduation.
Traveling with the President via motorcade en route to Falcon Stadium:
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations Anita Dunn, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President Karine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press Secretary Ryan Montoya, Deputy Assistant to the President & Director of Scheduling and Advance Marc Gustafson, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for the White House Situation Room John McCarthy, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the Counselor to the President Carlyn Reichel, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for Speechwriting & Strategic Initiatives Jason Israel, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for Defense Policy and Strategy 


June 1, 2023 09:34 MDT

Travel Pool Report #4 - greeters
Greeting the President upon arrival to Falcon Stadium:
Frank Kendall, Secretary of the Air Force General Charles Q. Brown, Jr, Chief of Staff of the U.S. Air Force General Brandon Saltzman, Chief of Staff of the Space Force


June 1, 2023 09:50 MDT

Travel Pool Report #5 --- Two minute warning
Two minute warning until President Biden's remarks, which you can live stream here
whitehouse.gov/live
WiFI is very very spotty at Falcon Stadium and the pool is sitting at tables where our view of the stage is blocked by the riser and photography/video equipment, making it very difficult to see POTUS or the ceremony itself.
And here's photoline, per WH
Participating in a photoline with the President at Falcon Stadium:
Lieutenant General Richard Clark, Superintendent, Air Force Academy Lieutenant General Stephen Whiting, Commander, Space Operations Command Lieutenant General (Retired) Mike Gould, Associate of Graduates, Air Force Foundation CEO Brigadier General Linell Letendre, Dean of the Faculty, Air Force Academy Brigadier General Paul Moga, Commandant of Cadets, Air Force Academy Colonel Ben Jonsson, Vice Superintendent, Air Force Academy Colonel Kurt Wendt, Director, Center for Character and Leadership Development Colonel Michael Cornelius, Commander, Air Force Preparatory School Colonel Chris Leonard, Commander, 10th Air Base Wing Colonel Michael Stolley, Commander, 306th Flying Training Group Lieutenant Colonel Robert Umholtz, Overall Lead, 2023 Graduation Lieutenant Colonel Colleen Kellam, Chief, Air Force Academy Commander's Action Group Chief Master Sergeant Randy Kwiatkowski, Command Chief, Air Force Academy Chief Master Sergeant Alonzo Watson, Senior Enlisted Leader, Air Force Academy Preparatory School Chief Master Sergeant Robert Devall, Commandant of Cadets and Senior Enlisted Leader Gail Colvin, Director of Staff, Air Force Academy Leslie Forrester, Deputy Director of Staff, Air Force Academy Jennifer Block, Executive Director of Athletics, Air Force Academy Nate Pine, Director of Athletics, Air Force Academy Mark Hille, Associate of Graduates and President, Air Force Academy Foundation Mayor-Elect Yemi Mobolade, Colorado Springs, Colorado 


June 1, 2023 10:29 MDT

Travel Pool Report #6 --- Biden Remarks begin
President Biden began his remarrks at 10:29 Mountain Time 


June 1, 2023 11:03 MDT

Travel Report #7 ---POTUS Remarks end
President Biden wrapped up his remarks at 1:01
Some quick quotes from his speech which began with a few quick jokes
On challenges facing cadets
"The pace of change is accelerating as well. Russia's aggression and brutality in Europe to our competition in China and a whole hell of a lot in between. We are seeing emerging technologies from AI to 3D printing that can change a conflict."
POUTS said that he met with eight leading AI scientists at the WH and "some are very worried that AI can actually overtake human thinking. So we've got a lot to deal with.
On Ukraine --
"Remember when I said Putin was certain that NATO would crack? That they would stand together. He brought 40 nations together. The United States has rallied the world to stand strong with Ukraine."
"The American people's support for Ukraine will not waiver. We always stand up for democracies. Always."
Next up cadet awards and presentation of graduates. 


June 1, 2023 12:52 MDT

Travel Pool Report #8 — POTUS fell on stage.
President Biden fell down on stage after handing out the last diploma to the Air Force cadets. He appeared to slip and fall going down on his knees.
He was helped up by Air Force officials.
POTUS appears to be ok and continued to stand until the ceremony ended a few minutes later. 


June 1, 2023 12:57 MDT

Travel Pool Report #9 — More on POTUS fall
POTUS was walking back to his seat when fell. He appeared to have tripped on a black sandbag on the stage. When he fell, pointed to the black sandbag suggesting that's what he tripped on. 


June 1, 2023 13:03 MDT

Travel Pool Report #10 — Rolling
The motorcade is rollling to Petersen Space Force base at 12:59. The graduation ceremony concluded around 12:50 or so, ending a roughly three and a half hour event that had 920 graduates.
Your pooler did not see POTUS leave the ceremony and no word on how he's feeling after the fall. 


June 1, 2023 13:46 MDT

Travel Pool Report #11 — arrival/update on POTUS
POTUS arrived at Peterson Space base at 1:37 and boarded AF1 at 1:40.
Your pooler spoke to Karine Jean-Pierre who said the president is feeling "totally fine." She noted that boarded AF1 flashing "a big smile."
POTUS did not take questions from the pool. When asked how he's feeling, he mouthed something that was difficult for the pool to hear over the roar of the plane engines. 


June 1, 2023 13:48 MDT

Travel Pool Report #12 — Traveling with POTUS
Traveling aboard Air Force One from Peterson Space Force Base en route to Joint Base Andrews:
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations Anita Dunn, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President Karine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press Secretary Ryan Montoya, Deputy Assistant to the President & Director of Scheduling and Advance Marc Gustafson, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for the White House Situation Room John McCarthy, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the Counselor to the President Carlyn Reichel, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for Speechwriting & Strategic Initiatives Jason Israel, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for Defense Policy and Strategy 


June 1, 2023 13:51 MDT

Travel Pool Report #13 - Wheels Up
Wheels up at 1:50--


June 1, 2023 18:41 EDT

Travel Pool Report #13 —- Wheels Down/Obama Call
[APP Note: See comment in Report #15, below, noting that this should be Report #14.]
AF1 Wheels down at 6:40
The trip back from Colorado was uneventful except for a press cabin visit by White House press secretary Karine Jean-Pierre for an off-the-record chat.
Also passing this along from the White House
President Biden and President Obama spoke this afternoon following President Biden's commencement address at the Air Force Academy. Among other topics, they spoke about the votes in Congress this week. 


June 1, 2023 18:45 EDT

Travel Pool Report #15 — Correction on numbers
The last pool report was numbered incorrectly . Wheels down report should have been Travel Pool Report #14, not Travel Pool Report #13.
The numbers are now correct and next report will be #16 


June 1, 2023 18:56 EDT

Travel Pool Report #16 — WH Departure
POTUS departed AF1 at 6:45and boarded Marine One for the White House at 6:50
Marine One lifted off at 6:54.
He did not take any questions from the pool
Kicking it back to In-Town. That's all from Travel Pool.
A special shout out to Cleve Wootson of the Washington Post, Steve Holland of Reuters, Josh Wingrove of Bloomberg and Marek Walkuski of Polskie radio for their invaluable help on this trip.
Thanks to all of you!!
Per WH, here's who greeted POTUS at JBA and who is going back to WH with him
Greeting the President upon arrival at Joint Base Andrews:
Colonel Matthew Jones, Commander, 89th Airlift Wing
Traveling with the President aboard Marine One en route to the White House:
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations Anita Dunn, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President Karine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press Secretary 




Pool Reports below by Noah Robertson, The Christian Science Monitor 



Sent:
Reports:




June 1, 2023 18:15 EDT

WH In Town Report #1 Good Evening
Happy June Everyone,
Greetings from the WH, where your in-town crew is stationed ahead of the president's return this temperate evening. There's little zest to the schedule other than that, but please ping me if you have any questions! 


June 1, 2023 18:55 EDT

WH In Town Report #2 Holding
Gathered at the Palm Room Doors. 


June 1, 2023 19:13 EDT

WH In Town Report #3 Touchdown
M1 landed at 7:04 pm, and the president exited a few minutes later.
He bumped his head on the doorframe while exiting the helicopter but otherwise appeared spry, wearing a blue suit with a matching tie and trademark aviators. Smiling, waving, and gingerly approaching the pool, he joked "I got sandbagged" in reference to the fall earlier today. Then he skipped once, holding his smile, and kept walking.
No response to shouted questions about whether he was okay after the fall and what he and former President Obama discussed over the phone. 


June 1, 2023 19:16 EDT

WH In Town Report #4 Lid
And that's all from us. Lid called at 7:13 p.m.
After the president's skip, he responded to the pool's shouted questions with "No questions, no."
Have a good night everyone! 



\r\n
  