
    SC Rep. Michael Rivers endorses Sanders, adding to growing momentum.
BEAUFORT, SC – Less than a week after a major endorsement from Rep. Leon Howard, the momentum surrounding Bernie 2020 continues to grow with the announcement that South Carolina State Representative Michael Rivers has joined the list of state leaders publicly supporting Sen. Bernie Sanders.
"From education to the environment, Rep. Rivers has proven himself time and again to be a tireless advocate for the people of his district and for all South Carolinians," said Bernie 2020 SC State Director Kwadjo Campbell. "No matter the issue, he fights for what is best in all of us and his willingness to fight for Sen. Bernie Sanders speaks volumes about our candidate and this campaign. We are proud to have his support."
Elected to the SC House of Representatives in 2016, Rivers recently co-sponsored legislation to ban seismic testing and drilling off South Carolina's coast as well as legislation to establish the state's first hate crime law. Representing District 121, which includes parts of Beaufort and Colleton Counties, Rivers previously served 18 years on the Beaufort County School Board and is a veteran of the United States Air Force.
Rep. Rivers is the latest in a string of state and local leaders to publicly endorse Sanders including:

SC Rep. Leon Howard
SC Rep. Krystle Simmons
SC Rep. Ivory Thigpen
SC Rep. Justin Bamberg
SC Rep. Wendell Gilliard
SC Rep. Terry Alexander
SC Rep. Shedron Williams
SC Rep. Cezar McKnight
Councilwoman Dorothy Williams - North Charleston City Council
Councilman Sam Hart - North Charleston City Council
Councilwoman Wilhelmina Peguese - Bennettsville City Council
Councilwoman Elaine Reed - Darlington City Council
Councilwoman Sheila Baccus - Darlington City Council
Councilman Willie Gladden - Marlboro County Council
Mr. Randolph Walker - Member, Georgetown County School Board
Ms. Cynthia Leggette - Chair, Marion County School Board
Stevenson Pierre - Immediate Past President, Cheraw NAACP
Donna DeWitt - President Emeritus, South Carolina AFL-CIO 
Pastor Eddie Massey
Mal Hyman - former Democratic Congressional Nominee, SC-7

SC State Representative Michael Rivers (District 121):
"Senator Sanders' commitment to key policies that protect and seek justice for all people is exactly what our nation and state need at this critical moment in time. That's why I am proud to endorse Senator Sanders and stand with him on our shared, life-long commitment to fighting for civil rights and economic justice."
  