
    The following list does not include promotions of members of the Uniformed Services, nominations to the Service Academies, or nominations of Foreign Service officers.
Submitted June 22
Lynn Jeanne Bush,
of the District of Columbia, to be a Judge of the U.S. Court of Federal Claims for a term of 15 years, vice Wilkes C. Robinson, retired.
Submitted June 23
Jane E. Henney, of New Mexico, to be Commissioner of Food and Drugs, Department of Health and Human Services, vice David A. Kessler, resigned.
Barbara Pedersen Holum, of Maryland, to be a Commissioner of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission for the term expiring April 13, 2002 (reappointment).
Kenneth Prewitt, of New York, to be Director of the Census, vice Martha F. Riche, resigned.
Submitted June 24
Barry P. Goode, of California, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the Ninth Circuit, vice Charles E. Wiggins, retired.
Robert Bruce King, of West Virginia, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the Fourth Circuit, vice Kenneth K. Hall, resigned.
Thomasina V. Rogers, of Maryland, to be a member of the Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission for the remainder of the term expiring April 27, 2001, vice Daniel Guttman.
Withdrawn June 24
Daniel Guttman,
of the District of Columbia, to be a member of the Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission for a term expiring April 27, 2001, vice Edwin G. Foulke, Jr., term expired, which was sent to the Senate on January 9, 1997.
Submitted June 25
David O. Carter, of California, to be U.S. District Judge for the Central District of California, vice William J. Rea, retired.
Submitted June 26
Susan G. Esserman, of Maryland, to be Deputy United States Trade Representative, with the rank of Ambassador, vice Jeffery M. Lang, resigned.
Richard E. Hecklinger, of Virginia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Kingdom of Thailand.
Theodore H. Kattouf, of Maryland, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the United Arab Emirates.
  