
    STATEMENT OF ADMINISTRATION POLICY
(House Rules)SENT to House on 6/25/92(McCurdy (D) OK)
The Administration strongly objects to H.R. 5095, as reported by the Select Committee on Intelligence. The bill would authorize appropriations and personnel at levels substantially below those requested in the President's Budget. These reduced levels would seriously impede the Administration's ability to meet the President's new intelligence priorities and to cope effectively with an uncertain future. The Administration would also strongly object to any amendments that would further reduce the President's budget request for intelligence activities.
Specifically, the Administration objects to the:

—   substantial reductions in funding and personnel throughout the National Foreign Intelligence Program;
—   34 percent reduction in funding for the FBI's foreign counter-intelligence activities;
—   cancellation of important technical collections systems; and
—   elimination of certain key analytic centers. 
The Administration urges the House to adopt the Administration's proposal, which the Central Intelligence Agency transmitted to Congress on March 16, 1992, rather than enact H.R. 5095. The Administration's proposal would authorize appropriations consistent with the President's request and provide other essential intelligence-related authorities. During further congressional consideration of H.R. 5095, the Administration will seek to restore the requested authorization levels and other general authorities.
Scoring for the Purposes of PAYGO and Discretionary Cans
H.R. 5095 would increase direct spending; it is, therefore, subject to the pay-as-you-go requirement of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1990 (OBRA). No offsets to the direct spending increase are provided in the bill. A budget point of order applies in the House against any bill that is not fully offset under CBO scoring. If, contrary to the Administration's recommendation, the House waives any such point of order that applies against H.R. 5095, the effects of enactment of this legislation would be included in the look back pay-as-you-go sequester report at the end of the congressional session.
OMB preliminary scoring estimates of this bill are presented in the table below. Final scoring of this legislation may deviate from these estimates. If H.R. 5095 is enacted, final OMB scoring estimates will be published within five days of enactment, as required by OBRA. The cumulative effects of all enacted legislation on direct spending will be issued in monthly reports transmitted to Congress.
Estimates for Pay-As-You-Go($ in millions)


1993
1994
1995
1996
1997
1993-96


*
*
*
*
*
2


 
 
 
 
 
 


* - Less than $500,000


  