
    To the Congress of the United States:
On June 1, 1992, pursuant to section 204(b) of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1703(b)), and section 301 of the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1631), I reported to the Congress by letters to the President of the Senate and the Speaker of the House, dated May 30, 1992, that I had exercised my statutory authority to issue Executive Order No. 12808 of May 30, 1992, that declared a national emergency and blocked "Yugoslav Government" property and property of the Governments of Serbia and Montenegro.
On May 30, 1992, the United Nations Security Council adopted Resolution No. 757 calling on member states to impose a comprehensive economic embargo against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro). Today I have taken additional steps to ensure that the economic measures we are taking with respect to the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) conform to United Nations Security Council Resolution No. 757 of May 30, 1992.
Specifically, pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701, et seq.), the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1601, et seq.), section 1114 of the Federal Aviation Act of 1958, as amended (49 U.S.C. App. 1514), section 5 of the United Nations Participation Act of 1945, as amended (22 U.S.C. 287c), and section 301 of title 3 of the United States Code, I have issued a second Executive order, "Blocking Property of and Prohibiting Transactions with the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro)," a copy of which is enclosed.
Among other things, the order that I have issued on this day:
prohibits exports and imports of goods and services between the United States and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro), and any activity that promotes or is intended to promote such exportation and importation;
prohibits any dealing by a U.S. person in connection with property originating in the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) exported from the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) after May 30, 1992, or intended for exportation to any country, and related activities;
prohibits transactions related to transportation to or from the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro), or the use of vessels or aircraft registered in the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro), by U.S. persons or involving the use of U.S.-registered vessels and aircraft;
prohibits the granting of permission to any aircraft to take off from, land in, or overfly the United States if that aircraft is destined to land in or take off from the territory of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro);
prohibits the performance by any U.S. person of any contract in support of certain categories of projects in the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro);
continues to block all property of the Government of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro), as well as assets of the former Government of the Socialist Republic of Yugoslavia, located in the United States or in the possession or control of U.S. persons, including their foreign branches; and
clarifies the definition of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro).
Today's order provides that the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, is authorized to take such actions, including the promulgation of rules and regulations, as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of the order.
The declaration of the national emergency made by Executive Order No. 12808 remains in force and is unaffected by today's order.
George Bush
The White House,
June 5, 1992.
  