
    Governor Boggs, Governor Aronson, members of the Governors' Conference, friends and guests:
I am recording this message on the eve of my departure for the far East.
Ever since I addressed you in Seattle 7 years ago, I have been concerned with the problems that engage the interest of the Nation's Governors and the federal Government.
Our common philosophy through the years, I think, can be thus expressed:
The first responsibility of the federal Government is to maintain the Republic strong and safe and free; to create a favorable climate for the expansion of the national economy; to carry out the Constitutional guarantees of full equality under law for all persons; to promote the general welfare wherever and whenever national action is necessary to insure common objectives.
The first responsibility of State governments is to provide all those services, necessary to the welfare of our people, which can best be provided by legislatures and executives close to the people; sharply aware of local needs; free from the need to compromise conflicting claims by section and region.
Through a preceding period, the traditional role of State governments within our federal Government was, or at least seemed to be, in the process of reduction to secondary status.
At Seattle, I expressed to you my conviction that this role had to be restored and maintained.
Moreover, I pledged frequent consultation with you concerning our mutual problems.
Only so, I felt, might be developed a true partnership between the National and State administrations.
The first step was an examination of the situation.
That was accomplished by the Kestnbaum Commission on Intergovernmental Relations--the first official study of federal-State relations since our Constitution was written.
Thereafter, 3 years ago in Williamsburg, I proposed that the National government and the States cooperate in establishing an action committee to consider the many facets of federal-State relations.
Congress last year, with my approval, enlarged this joint enterprise into a continuing, permanent, advisory commission with membership representing all levels of American government. Accomplishments are measurable.
In areas of responsibility where the States have major concern--education, highways and public works, health, welfare and conservation--they are spending twice as much today as they were 10 years ago.
This increase in money is an accurate index, I think, to the increase in the States' acceptance of responsibility--an index to the restoration of the traditional role of the State governments.
Take one example.
At your conference in New York in 1954, the Vice President presented on my behalf a proposal that the States and the national government work together on a gigantic project to modernize our nationwide highway system.
You approved and appointed a committee to work jointly with the Committee appointed by me.
Together, we developed the greatest highway program in our history.
Nine thousand miles of the interstate system are now completed.
Another two thousand are scheduled for completion this year..
Of course, the program needs more money. But with your help, this money will be found.
On many fronts, we have been engaged in an exciting and historic effort to make our unique federal system work, and to work better.
Our cooperative effort, I am certain, will be carried forward and improved upon by our successors.
Certainly, in the talks I shall have overseas during the next 2 weeks, I can speak with greater assurance than ever of our success and strength in representative government, with greater confidence that we shall continue our advance toward a more effective democracy at home, a more vigorous leadership in the world.
In that sense, the trip ahead of me is a sequel to the philosophy and the programs that have joined us in mutual effort.
Before closing, I should like to pay my respects to your distinguished guest, the Prime Minister of Canada--the outstanding leader of our neighbors and partners and friends to the north. And on behalf of all our people, I salute him and the nation he represents.
To all of you and to the representatives of our neighbors to the south, my best wishes for a productive and successful conference.
  