
    On Thursday, June 23, at 3:15 PM ET, First Lady Jill Biden will arrive at Palm Beach International Airport in West Palm Beach, Florida. This arrival will be open press. For interested media, please RSVP HERE by Wednesday, June 22nd at 5:00 PM ET.
At 3:45 PM ET, as part of the Biden Administration's Cancer Moonshot initiative, First Lady Jill Biden and U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) Deputy Secretary Andrea Palm will join Ambassador Nancy Brinker in Palm Beach County, Florida, to highlight the importance of private sector commitments and collaboration in the effort to end cancer as we know it. The First Lady, HHS Deputy Secretary Andrea Palm, and Ambassador Brinker will tour FoundCare Palm Springs, a Federally Qualified Health Center that was able to establish a women's health center and offer breast and cervical cancer screenings with the support of the Promise Fund of Florida. The Promise Fund of Florida, co-founded and led by Ambassador Brinker, partners with community-based health centers to improve access to breast and cervical cancer screenings and provide patient navigation services for local women diagnosed with breast or cervical cancer. After the tour of FoundCare Palm Springs, the First Lady, HHS Deputy Secretary Andrea Palm, and Ambassador Brinker will give remarks focusing on the importance of cancer screening and patient navigation. The FoundCare tour will be pooled press. The speaking program will be open press with limited capacity. For interested media, please RSVP HERE by Wednesday, June 22nd at 5:00 PM ET.
On Friday, June 24, at 9:00 AM ET, the First Lady will arrive at Miami International Airport in Miami-Dade County, Florida. This arrival will be open press. For interested media, please RSVP HERE by Wednesday, June 22nd at 5:00 PM ET.
At 10:00 AM ET, the First Lady and FEMA Administrator Deanne Criswell will participate in the Town of Surfside's memorial event with Mayor Shlomo Danzinger in Surfside, Florida. The First Lady will deliver remarks. This event is in honor and remembrance of the 98 lives lost at the Champlain Towers South on June 24, 2021. For interested media, please contact the Office of the Town of Surfside.
  