
    In anticipation of "Olympic Day," a global commemoration on June 23rd of the birth of the modern Olympic Games, President Obama today announced the Presidential Delegation to the Opening Ceremony of the 2012 Olympic Games in London. First Lady Michelle Obama will lead the delegation this summer, accompanied by Olympic and Paralympic greats to attend the Opening Ceremony, meet with U.S. athletes, and encourage American children to be active in their daily lives.
The First Lady is working to turn the inspiration of the Olympic and Paralympic Games into action by getting more kids healthy and active. In May, the First Lady joined U.S. Olympians, Paralympians, and London hopefuls to announce a nationwide commitment to get more than 1.7 million American children active as part of herLet's Move! initiative to solve the problem of childhood obesity in a generation. In March, Mrs. Obama welcomed Mrs. Samantha Cameron, wife of British Prime Minister David Cameron, to the United States by hosting a mini-Olympic event for local school children and in April, Mrs. Obama spoke at the Opening Ceremony for the 2012 Warrior Games.
"This summer I'll be cheering on Team U.S.A. at the Olympic Games in London with this distinguished group of champions who truly represent the best of our country," said First Lady Michelle Obama. "Olympians and Paralympians are true American heroes and role models for all of us, especially our young people. And I know that this delegation will help inspire a generation of young people to get into the Olympic spirit by getting active and healthy so they can reach their fullest potential and reach their dreams."
Members of the Delegation
First Lady Michelle Obama
The Honorable Louis B. Susman, United States Ambassador to the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland
Ms. Brandi Chastain, 2-time Olympic gold medalist (1996, 2004), 1-time Olympic silver medalist (2000), Women's Soccer
Ms. Dominique Dawes, Co-chair of the President's Council on Fitness, Sports and Nutrition and Olympic gold medalist (1996), 3-time Olympic bronze medalist (1992, 1996, 2000), Women's Gymnastics
Mr. Gabriel Diaz de Leon, Paralympic javelin gold medalist (1992), Paralympic discus silver medalist (1992), Paralympic shot put and discus bronze medalist (1988, 1996, 2000)
Mr. Grant Hill, Member of the President's Council on Fitness, Sports and Nutrition and Olympic gold medalist (1996), Men's Basketball
Ms. Summer Sanders, 2-time Olympic gold medalist (1992), 1-time Olympic silver medalist (1992), 1-time Olympic bronze medalist (1992), Women's Swimming
  