
    Pool Reports by Tom DeFrank, National Journal 



Sent:
Reports:




June 25, 2023 11:34

Pool Report 1 - Updated Guidance
Good morning; calling your attention to updated guidance just released by the White House indicating that POTUS will be arriving later than previously anticipated. He will now leave Camp David at 7:15 pm, arrive at Fort McNair at 7:50 pm, and arrive at the White House at 8:10 pm.
Your pooler has asked the press office for details about the President's day at Camp David and will pass along any response.


June 25, 2023 18:48

Pool Report 2 - Fort McNair
Greetings from historic Fort McNair, the third-oldest post in the Army. The pool has journeyed from the White House to McNair for the President's arrival from Camp David. All we know about his activities today are one-paragraph readouts of phone calls concerning events in Russia with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy and Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau.


June 25, 2023 20:34

Pool Report #3 - Arrival/Lid
Marine One touched down on the vast lawn in front of the iconic National War College building at 8 pm. Three minutes later POTUS emerged hand-in-hand with Baby Beau, Hunter's young son. Hunter was also on the 31-minute flight. Pop and Beau walked to the limo holding hands.
Questions were posed, but the pool was too far away to be heard and POTUS went directly into the car with grandson and son without looking our way.
Motorcade left McNair at 8:06 and thanks to intersection control was back at the White House at 8:15, where a lid was promptly called.
POTUS was wearing a navy blue suit with a light blue, open-necked dress shirt.
And a muggy good night to all.
White House advises:
The President departed Camp David at 7:29pm.
Traveling with the President aboard Marine One en route to Fort Lesley J. McNair:
Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations 



  