
    Former White House Aide Will Advise Campaign on Urban Policy
The Clinton Campaign announced today that Alvin Brown, former White House Senior Adviser and immediate past Chairman of the National Black MBA Association, has joined Hillary's campaign as a Senior Adviser on urban policy.
"Alvin Brown brings substantial policy experience and insight to our campaign, and I'm delighted he's joined our team," Clinton said.
Brown was Vice President Al Gore's Senior Adviser for Urban Policy and Vice Chair and Executive Director of the White House Community Empowerment Board. In those roles, he worked on a wide range of domestic issues, including community revitalization, job creation, new business development and expansion of affordable housing. Brown led the Clinton-Gore administration's $4 billion community empowerment programs, including the new market tax credits initiative and the Empowerment Zone/Enterprise Community program that fueled economic growth in rural America and the nation's cities. The pioneering program attracted $10 billion in private investment and drew praise for its innovative use of public-private partnerships.
"My hometown of Columbia is just one of many communities that have been helped by the empowerment zones Alvin championed during his time in the White House," said House Majority Whip Jim Clyburn of South Carolina. "Alvin has been a leader on the critical issues facing urban areas -- economic development, affordable housing and entrepreneurship -- and I know he will continue to work to expand economic opportunity for all Americans."
Prior to his work in the White House, Brown held a number of key positions in the Administration, including Senior Adviser to the late Commerce Secretary Ron Brown, where he focused on base closure and defense conversion, and Senior Adviser to Housing and Urban Development Secretary Andrew Cuomo. While at HUD, Brown was responsible for overseeing the Department's $100 million disaster recovery initiative, which included leading and overhaul of the Department's response effort.
"Alvin and I worked together for years creating public-private partnerships to bring new investment and spur entrepreneurship in America's cities," said BET founder and businessman Bob Johnson. "He not only understands policy, he understands people. Alvin will be a tremendous asset to Senator Clinton and her campaign."
Brown said Clinton's commitment to America's cities was critical to his decision to join her campaign. "Hillary Clinton is ready to lead this country from her first day in the White House," Brown said. "I believe her vision will empower and inspire a new generation of Americans to make this country a better place."
  