
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
June 12 [xi]1
The President announced his intention to nominate Patricia M. McMahon to be Deputy Director for Demand Reduction at the Office of National Drug Control Policy.
June 17
In the morning, the President returned to Washington, DC, from Camp David, MD.
In the early evening the President and Hillary Clinton hosted a tea for former President of Haiti Jean-Bertrand Aristide and his wife, Mildred, in the Yellow Oval Room. Later in the evening, he addressed a reception for Gov. Mel Carnahan of Missouri at the Sheraton Carlton Hotel and attended a Democratic National Committee dinner at the Ritz Carlton Hotel.
The White House announced that President Hosni Mubarak of Egypt accepted the President's invitation to meet in Washington, DC, on July 30 for an official working visit.
June 18
In the early evening, the President met with congressional leaders in the Cabinet Room.
Later, the President and Hillary Clinton hosted the annual White House summer picnic for members of the press.
The President declared a major disaster in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by flooding on June 12.
The White House announced the President asked the Congress for $12 million in supplemental appropriation for the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms to intensify the Federal efforts to investigate acts of arson against African-American churches.
June 19
In the early evening, the President addressed the Business Roundtable at the J.W. Marriott Hotel.
Later in the evening, the President attended a reception for the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee at a private residence.
The President awarded the 1996-97 White House Fellowships to the following recipients: Brenda G. Berkman, Audrey Choi, Kimberly R. Cornett, Linda Eddleman, Stephanie Ferguson, Susan D. Fink, Peter S. Fiske, Lewis P. Long, Mark J. Mathabane, Kevin Monroe, David A. Moore, Robert C. Orr, Bonnie J. Ryan, Stefanie J. Sanford, Elisabeth A. Stock, Loree K. Sutton, Reginald M. Turner, and John (Randy) Wood.
The White House announced that President Islom A. Karimov of Uzbekistan has accepted the President's invitation to meet in Washington, DC, on June 25.
June 20
In the evening, the President and Hillary Clinton welcomed the arrival of the 1996 Olympic torch on the South Lawn of the White House.
June 21
In the morning, the President traveled to Chicago, IL.
In the afternoon, the President traveled to Houston, TX.
In the evening, the President attended a Democratic National Committee reception and gala at the J.W. Marriott Hotel. He then attended a dinner at a private residence and a Saxophone Club reception at the El Dorado Ranch.
The President announced his intention to appoint the following individuals to the National Cancer Advisory Board: Barbara K. Rimer; Richard J. Boxer; Frederick P. Li; Ivor Royston; Ellen L. Stovall; and Sandra Millon-Underwood.
  