
    While speaking to voters in Hollis, New Hampshire this morning, Governor Ron DeSantis continued to highlight his detailed plan to stop the invasion and secure the border once and for all.
"First thing that comes to my mind is, this is humiliating as a country, to not even be able to control your own territory, your own border, to cede the border to Mexican drug cartels, and to allow tens of thousands of Americans to be poisoned with impunity. That is not the America I know. And we are going to make sure we change that... And the main theme through our border approach is no excuses. We have been hearing about this for how many decades, certainly years, it has been such an issue and a lot of politicians chirp. They make grandiose promises, and then fail to deliver the actual results. And so the time for excuses is over. Now is the time to deliver results and finally get the job done. And we have the plan to do it. But I think more importantly than that, you can look at my record as governor, every time I told someone I do something I did it."
The campaign also released a video this afternoon recapping the governor's trip to Texas on Sunday and Monday. 
Watch the video HERE. 
And the Washington Examiner published a story this morning highlighting how Texas residents were "hooked" when they heard about DeSantis' proposal yesterday. Here are some highlights from the story:
Residents in a border town grappling with sustained illegal immigration and community releases eagerly welcomed 2024 Republican presidential candidate Ron DeSantis for a visit on Monday.
"Governor DeSantis promised that action will be taken when he wins the presidential election," said Alison Anderson, a resident of the nearby border town Del Rio. "And for me, seeing action being taken against the cartels, the smugglers, the trafficking, the gotaways, and the relentless lawlessness that is happening along our southern border and throughout border communities is something I can certainly stand behind and support."
Residents in Eagle Pass, a town of roughly 30,000, believed DeSantis's stop was a genuine attempt to hear their concerns and put forth plans to fix them.
Tony Castaneda, a resident of the nearby town Quemado and the former Eagle Pass chief of police, turned out Monday morning because he believed DeSantis meant what he said in his calls for action.
"I really think that the man is very sincere in his message," Castaneda said.
The crowd erupted in applause when DeSantis mentioned transporting immigrants to Martha's Vineyard.
Anderson, a mother of three young children, said it was DeSantis's strategy to impose "consequences" for illegal immigration that appealed to her the most.
"I am a big believer in if you break the law, you break the law --- there's no reward for being a criminal, in my opinion," Anderson said. "I believe that enforcing our laws is one of the most important things that we need to be doing, especially with immigration law."
"He was the first one to come and support our governor with the security of our border," Castaneda said. "We need to really focus in on different issues affecting our country, but in this area, immigration is a big subject of concern, especially to people like me that have property on the border on the river, and I've never had this type of invaders come through our property."
  