
    Presidential Action
On June 15, 2005, President Bush Delivered Remarks In Washington, D.C., On His National Energy Policy. President Bush entered office four years ago proposing the first national energy plan in a generation, and is now calling on Congress to stop their delay and get an energy bill on his desk before the August recess.
Background: President Bush Discussed Plans To Reduce Our Dependence On Foreign Sources Of Energy
New Technologies Will Promote Conservation And Reduce Gas Consumption.

Tax Incentives For Hybrid Vehicle Owners. Some of these cars can travel twice as far as conventional vehicles on one gallon of fuel, and they produce lower emissions. The President's FY 2006 Budget includes $2.5 billion over 10 years in tax incentives to consumers for the purchase of hybrid cars and trucks that will reduce U.S. dependence on foreign energy sources.
Extending Tax Credits To Clean-Diesel Vehicles. Clean-diesel technology will allow consumers to travel much farther on each gallon of fuel without the harmful pollution of older diesel engines, and the President has proposed to make a new generation of energy-efficient vehicles - clean-diesel cars - eligible for the same tax credits he has proposed for hybrid vehicles.

Producing And Refining More Crude Oil Here At Home Will Help Offset Growing Demand For Foreign Oil.

Increase Domestic Energy Production In Environmentally Responsible Ways. Technology now makes it possible to reach energy resources in places like the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge (ANWR). Drilling on less than 1 percent of ANWR's total area could eventually yield up to one million barrels of oil per day.
Simplify Rules So Existing Refineries Can Expand Their Capacity. The President has directed the Environmental Protection Agency to simplify existing regulations and make it easier for refineries to expand their capacity, while maintaining strict environmental safeguards.
Build New Refineries To Meet Growing Demand. There have been no new oil refineries built in the United States since 1976. The President has proposed the construction of new refineries on closed military sites, which will create jobs in these communities.

Developing Alternative Fuel Sources To Reduce America's Need For Foreign Energy Sources.

President Bush Is Leading The Way On Hydrogen Fuel. President Bush has dedicated $1.2 billion over five years towards developing hydrogen-powered fuel cells, zero-emissions vehicles that could run without gasoline, and the infrastructure to support them. As hydrogen production becomes more cost competitive, this new energy source will offer an environmentally friendly alternative to gasoline.
Ethanol Is An American-Grown Alternative To Foreign Crude Oil. Ethanol is a renewable resource derived from corn grown in America that offers the opportunity to reduce U.S. demand for foreign crude oil. With minor modifications by automobile manufacturers, vehicles can run on a fuel blend that is 85 percent ethanol and only 15 percent gasoline.
Biodiesel Delivers Critical Benefits Without Oil. Made from a variety of waste products and producing substantially less air pollution than gasoline or regular diesel, biodiesel also reduces engine wear. Moreover, the use of biodiesel supports American farmers and manufacturers - not foreign oil producers.

By Urging Other Nations To Increase Production And Helping Them Become More Efficient Users Of Energy, The United States Can Help Address Increased Demand For Energy Worldwide.

Working With Foreign Leaders To Increase Production. The United States is encouraging oil-producing countries to maximize their production, so that more crude oil is on the market to meet high demand.
Rising Oil Consumption In Asia Is Growing Faster Than Global Supply. Helping rapidly developing countries like India and China become more efficient users of energy will take pressure off the global oil supply and reduce gas prices in America.
The Administration Is Working With World Leaders To Join Our Efforts. At the G-8 meeting later this month, President Bush will ask other world leaders to help encourage developing countries to find practical, cost-efficient ways to use clean-energy technologies and reduce global demand for oil.

  