
    Just moments ago I officially announced that I am running for the Republican nomination for President of the United States.
Will you stand with me today as a DAY ONE Founding Member of my campaign? Please follow this link to make an instant online contribution.
I did not make this decision lightly. After months of consideration and years of working to protect and secure our country, I knew I could still do more.
Our country very much needs a proven leader...
Who is ready to be Commander in Chief on Day One and has the conviction to defeat our enemies...
Who can inspire Americans to build on the best our country has to offer...
And who can cast a vision for a strong, secure and prosperous nation that Americans can rally around and give their full support.
The greatest issue America faces is the growing threat to our nation's security from terrorist organizations with more capabilities, more arms, more recruits and more safe havens to attack the U.S. than at any time before 9/11.
I recently retired as a Colonel from the U.S. Air Force Reserves after a 33-year career in the Air Force, National Guard and Reserves. I've visited and served in Afghanistan and the Middle East more than 20 times gaining first-hand knowledge about terror groups that threaten our way of life.
I have the understanding, experience and leadership that is needed to protect this country. If you agree that we need an experienced leader in the White House, then I hope you will stand with me today by making a Day One supporter donation.
I'm running for President to do the big things. I believe in the near future our great country is going to face tremendous challenges — both at home and abroad — and we are going to need proven leadership to meet those challenges.
I have a proven conservative record of getting things done and bringing common-sense solutions to the table. I've been in the middle of debates, confrontations and decision-making on the critical issues — taxes, job creation, debt, Social Security, energy, military spending and foreign policy.
More than anything, our nation needs a president who will make the tough decisions needed to keep us safe and carry on the great promise of America.
I am hoping that today I can count on you to become a Day One Founding Member of my presidential campaign.
The road ahead will not be easy, but I take comfort knowing I have your friendship and support.
Sincerely,
Lindsey Graham
P.S. I am 100% committed to becoming the Republican nominee for president and going one-on-one against Hillary Clinton next year. I promise a hard-hitting, honest and winning fight, but I need your immediate help to ensure we have the funds needed to do so. Please send whatever you can afford today. Thanks, Lindsey
  