
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Kevin Madden (857) 288-6390
Boston, MA – Today, Governor Mitt Romney issued the following statement on Senator John McCain's (R-AZ) immigration remarks in Miami, Florida:
"The policies we enact have important consequences on the American public with regard to economic and national security.
"The immigration approach proposed by Senators McCain and Kennedy falls short of a workable solution to an important problem. I respect Senator McCain, but my opposition to his bill is a matter of principled disagreement about policies and priorities related to enforcement of our immigration laws.
"In reforming our immigration system, we must meet three priorities. First, we can and must secure our borders. Second, our country must have an enforceable employment verification system. Third, in reforming our immigration system, we must do so in a way that rewards immigrants who obey the laws and guards against providing special incentives for those who show no regard for them."
Governor Romney's Immigration Reform Priorities:
First, Securing Our Border. GOVERNOR ROMNEY: "We're going to have to secure our border first." ("Mike Gallagher Show," 5/21/07)
Second, Putting In Place An Enforceable Employment Verification System. GOVERNOR ROMNEY: "Two, put in place an employment verification system to make sure we're giving jobs only to those people who come legally." ("Mike Gallagher Show," 5/21/07)
Third, No Special Privilege Or Special Pathway To Citizenship For Those Here Illegally. GOVERNOR ROMNEY: "And number three, for the 12 million, we can't allow them to have a special privilege of being able to stay here indefinitely." ("Mike Gallagher Show," 5/21/07)
Governor Romney: Border Security Is Number One. GOVERNOR ROMNEY: "You've got to have a wall or fence or electronic surveillance. You have got to make sure we secure our border, that's first." (Fox News' "The O'Reilly Factor," 9/19/06)
Governor Romney: "I believe it's important to end illegal immigration so we can maintain and encourage legal immigration. Immigration is good for this country; it's helped us over our history. We need immigration to provide some of the skills that we may miss, migrant workers, cultural advantages. It's a great source of vitality for America to have legal immigration, but illegal immigration – that we need to bring an end to." (KCMO's "Morning Show With Chris Stigall," 5/22/07)
  