
    [1.] SANTA BARBARA, CALIFORNIA (Rear platform, 7:15 a.m.)
Well, Santa Barbara is a nice place. I see the covered wagons are still pulling in here. Everybody must have had a pleasant evening, gone home early, and gotten up early. I am sure I did.
I am glad to be back in Santa Barbara once more. I have been through here on many occasions. I always liked the town. I always liked to stay here, and I am sorry I can't stay this time, but you people are not interested in what I did in the past, you are interested in what is doing now.
I hope that when I get through with my trip in Southern California, that you will thoroughly understand just exactly the things for which I stand.
I know that your great problem here is water, and I also hope that we will find some way to improve that water situation. You can't do it by turning the water and the power and the land over to the special interests. Those things must be retained for the benefit of the people. That is what I am trying to get done.
It is a little too early in the morning to make a real political talk, or a nonpolitical talk, because this is supposed to be a nonpolitical trip. That all depends on your viewpoint. If you are on my side, it's nonpolitical; if you are not, it's a low-down political trip, to come out and tell the people what they ought to hear.
That's all I am trying to do. I am trying to give you the picture as I see it, and then if you like it, that will be wonderful for me. If you don't like it, then you will do what you think is best for the country. And I think that is the reason our country is great. You can look at me here now and then make up your own mind, and there won't be anybody standing behind you with a club when you go out to vote. That's the great thing in this country, and this is one of the very few countries where that can be done.
I can't tell you how much I appreciate the cordiality of the people in California. They are naturally hospitable. They make you feel like you ought to stay here, and I guess that's the reason most of you are here.
I thank you very much for getting up so early in the morning to greet your President and see what he looks like, and I hope you will feel favorably toward him when the right time comes.
[2.] LOS ANGELES, CALIFORNIA (Press Club Address, 1:30 p.m., see Item 134)
[3.] SAN BERNARDINO, CALIFORNIA (Rear platform, 7:40 p.m.)
Well, this is the usual California welcome, and I can't tell you how very much I appreciate it.
From the time I have started from Washington to Chicago, to Omaha, to Cheyenne, to Butte, to Spokane, to Seattle, to Tacoma, to Portland, to Salem, Oreg., to San Francisco, and to Los Angeles, and to San Bernardino. I have never had such cordial treatment. I can't tell you how much I appreciate it.
I wish I could be here long enough to make you a statement on the affairs of the Nation and on foreign affairs. I can't do that. I haven't time. We are only here for just a few minutes.
You have all been very kind to me in the West, and I can't tell you how very much I appreciate it. Sometime, I hope in the next few months I can come back here and talk to you on the affairs of the Nation, and make you a political speech. You see, I am on a nonpolitical trip.
Thank you a lot.
  