
    Veteran Official and Advocate to Serve as Northern Nevada Co-Chair
The Clinton campaign today announced the endorsement of Nevada State Treasurer Kate Marshall and named her Northern Nevada Co-Chair.
"As president, Hillary Clinton will restore responsible fiscal policy to our country, for the benefit of all citizens," said Marshall. "She will work to ensure that government runs efficiently and effectively, and operates with absolute transparency. She is committed to eliminating deficit spending and fostering strong economic growth. Most importantly, she believes in shared prosperity, and understands that America needs both a strong business community and a strong working community, operating hand-in-hand. I am thrilled to get to work on behalf of Senator Clinton's Nevada campaign, knowing how much our state and our nation will benefit from her experience and leadership. She is ready to lead."
Elected to the office of Nevada State Treasurer in 2006, Kate Marshall has dedicated her entire career to public service, protecting the people from fraud, safeguarding public funds and advocating for responsive and efficient government. In her first six months as Treasurer, she has stepped up efforts to return unclaimed property to the citizens of Nevada, more than doubling the number of claims processed per week.
Marshall previously led teams of investigators in the Anti-Trust Division of the U.S. Department of Justice in both the George H.W. Bush and Clinton administrations, before moving to Nevada to create and build the Antitrust Unit of the Nevada Attorney General's office.
As Senior Deputy Attorney General, Marshall led a team of attorneys, financial experts and administrators to successfully streamline and modernize Nevada's antitrust statutes, facilitating greater access for all Nevadans. Her team achieved unprecedented success in cracking down on financial fraud and abuse, and prosecuting white collar criminals.
In 2000, Marshall became in-house counsel for ATG, Inc., a private telecommunications firm serving businesses in Northern Nevada. Prior to her election as Treasurer, she most recently managed her own successful law practice, specializing in consumer protection, telecommunications law, and competitive market analysis.
An active volunteer for educational causes, Marshall spearheaded efforts to bring Nevada's "Toys for Tots" program into rural communities overlooked by many government agencies. Prior to pursuing her law degree, Marshall spent her early career as a Peace Corps volunteer teaching English and Commerce in Kenya. In 2001, she was honored as a Woman of Achievement by the Nevada Women's Fund.
"Like Senator Clinton, Kate Marshall has through the course of her career been a passionate and tireless advocate for those without a voice in the community," said Clinton Northern Nevada Chair Frankie Sue Del Papa. "Her experience, knowledge and enthusiasm will be tremendous assets to our efforts. We are absolutely thrilled to have her on Senator Clinton's Nevada team."
  