
    The following list does not include promotions of members of the Uniformed Services, nominations to the Service Academies, or nominations of Foreign Service officers.
Submitted June 10
Patrick A. Shea, of Utah, to be Director of the Bureau of Land Management, vice Jim Baca.
Submitted June 11
David Andrews, of California, to be Legal Adviser of the Department of State (new position).
Timberlake Foster, of California, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Islamic Republic of Mauritania.
Ralph Frank, of Washington, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Kingdom of Nepal.
Jane Garvey, of Massachusetts, to be Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration for the term of 5 years, vice David Russell Hinson, resigned.
John C. Holzman, of Hawaii, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the People's Republic of Bangladesh.
Karl Frederick Inderfurth,
of North Carolina, to be Assistant Secretary of State for South Asian Affairs, vice Robin Lynn Raphel.
Nancy Jo Powell, of Iowa, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Uganda.
Amelia Ellen Shippy, of Washington, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Malawi.
Robert L. Mallett, of Texas, to be Deputy Secretary of Commerce, vice David J. Barram.
George A. Omas, of Mississippi, to be a Commissioner of the Postal Rate Commission for a term expiring October 14, 2000, vice Wayne Arthur Schley, term expired.
Submitted June 12
Susan E. Rice,
of the District of Columbia, to be an Assistant Secretary of State, vice George Edward Moose.
  