
    Today, President Donald J. Trump announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key positions in his Administration:
Brigadier General Anthony J. Tata, United States Army (Retired), of Virginia, to be Under Secretary of Defense for Policy.
General Tata currently serves as the Senior Advisor to the Secretary of Defense. Prior to his appointment, General Tata was the President and CEO of Tata Leadership Group, LLC and Co-owner and Chief Growth Officer of Air Data Solutions.
General Tata previously served as President of KaylaTek, LLC, where he led the startup in providing innovative contract and consulting services to clients in the Defense, Energy, Logistics, and Transportation sectors.
Prior to this position, General Tata served as Secretary of Transportation for the North Carolina Department of Transportation. General Tata also served as the Superintendent of Wake County Public Schools, and as COO of Washington, D.C. Public Schools.
His extensive uniformed service with the United States Army included assignments as Deputy Director of the Joint Improvised Explosive Device Defeat Organization; Deputy Commanding General of the 10th Mountain Division & Joint Task Force-76 in Afghanistan; Executive Officer to the Vice Chief of Staff of the Army; Deputy Director of the Joint Experimentation, Joint Forces Command; Commander of the 2nd Brigade, 101st Airborne Division, and Commander of the 1st Battalion, 505th Parachute Infantry Regiment in the 82nd Airborne Division.
General Tata is a recipient of the Army Distinguished Service Medal, Defense Superior Service Medal, Bronze Star, NATO Medal, Combat Action Badge, and Ranger Tab. He is a graduate of the School of Advanced Military Studies, the Catholic University of America, and the United States Military Academy. He also served as a National Security Fellow at Harvard University's John F. Kennedy School of Government.
David Reimer, of Ohio, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Sierra Leone.
Ambassador Reimer, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Counselor, is currently the United States Ambassador to the Republic of Mauritius and the Republic of Seychelles. Prior to that, Ambassador Reimer was the Director in the Office of West African Affairs at the Department of State and the Deputy Chief of Mission of the United States Embassy in Nouakchott, Mauritania.
Ambassador Reimer's other experience includes assignments as an Assessor on the Board of Examiners for the State Department and as a Senior Refugee Coordinator at the United States Embassy in Baghdad, Iraq. He also was the Deputy Director of the Office of East African Affairs and a Refugee and Migration Officer at the United States Mission in Geneva, Switzerland.
Prior to joining the State Department, Ambassador Reimer was an International Affairs Specialist in the Office of International Cooperation and Development at the United States. Department of Agriculture. Ambassador Reimer earned his B.A. from Goshen College and his M.P.I.A. from the University of Pittsburgh. He speaks French, Italian, and German.
—
Today, President Donald J. Trump announced his intent to appoint the following individuals to key positions in his Administration:
David E. Richardson, of Michigan, to be an Assistant Secretary of Homeland Security for Countering Weapons of Mass Destruction.
Andrew Rakowsky, of New York, to be a Member of the Federal Salary Council.
  