
    Prominent Business Owner and Advocate Named State Co-Chair
The Clinton campaign today announced the endorsement of Las Vegas Latin Chamber of Commerce Chairman Robert Gomez and named him co-chair of the Nevada campaign. Gomez will also serve on the campaign's Nevada Hispanic Leadership Council.
"As a proven expert and innovative advocate on both domestic and international issues, Hillary Clinton has the best credentials to lead our country, hands-down," said Gomez. "Throughout her career she has been a champion for middle-class, working Americans, and as President she will bring forward policies carrying the best opportunities for those who have been invisible in society. Her lifelong commitment to removing economic disparities and increasing access to education will benefit Hispanics in Nevada, and throughout the nation. My family and I are honored, excited and ready to work hard to support Hillary Clinton's efforts in our home state."
Owner and general manager of an award-winning industrial janitorial business and known as a leading advocate for minority business development and education, Robert Gomez is the 2007 Chairman of the Board of Directors for the Las Vegas Latin Chamber of Commerce. He has served on the Chamber's board for the past five years, during which time he has spearheaded development of innovative programs designed to assist Latin businesses in such areas as bank loans, minority business certification, marketing and capacity building.
A 38-year resident of Las Vegas, Gomez was named Entrepreneur of the Year by the Latin Chamber in 2003. His business, Magic Brite Janitorial, is the recipient of numerous honors, including the 2002 Award of Excellence as Small Business of the Year from the Nevada Minority Purchasing Council. In the year 2000, Top Rank of Nevada ranked Magic Brite as the second largest minority-owned business in the State of Nevada.
"Robert Gomez knows the issues important to Nevadans, having experienced firsthand the growth of the Hispanic community in our state, and taken on the development of Latino business as a deeply personal cause," said Clinton Nevada Chair Rory Reid. "He will be a great resource and energetic leader on our team."
As State Co-Chair, Gomez joins Clinton's Nevada campaign leadership team which includes Northern Nevada Chair Frankie Sue Del Papa as well as Reid. Pastor Robert Fowler of Victory Baptist Ministries and Clark County Commissioner Chris Giunchigliani were also named State Co-Chairs this week.
  