
    "I want a Mitt Romney. I want somebody who can generate equity for me and the stockholders of America. I think we need a leader that takes responsibilities, not a fundraising professor that blames others." – Jack Gilchrist, Gilchrist Metal Fabricating
Rep. Charlie Bass, Chris Ahlgren of Jo Green's Garden Café, and Jack Gilchrist of Gilchrist Metal Fabricating
"President Obama Is Hostile To New Hampshire Job Creators" Press Conference Call
June 4, 2012
Click Here To Listen To The Entire Call
Highlights From The "President Obama Is Hostile To New Hampshire Job Creators" Press Conference Call:
REP. CHARLIE BASS: "I come to the front here not only as a Member of Congress and one who is interested obviously as a top priority in getting this economy turned around but one with a background in business myself, most notably in manufacturing. And I have to say that this President I believe views business as a necessary evil in the process of making America work. He's done little over the last four years to really encourage entrepreneurship and opportunity for people to get into businesses and move businesses along."
CHRIS AHLGREN, JO GREEN'S GARDEN CAFE: "We are a seasonal resort town here in Wolfboro and we rely heavily on vacationers and the, you know, and the discretionary income that they have. When gas prices are high, they don't have discretionary income. When they don't have a job, they don't have discretionary income. So that definitely impacts my business."
JACK GILCHRIST, GILCHRIST METAL FABRICATING: "Our business, our neighbors, ourselves, are all affected negatively by the same condition: and that's uncertainty. The Obama economy is just loaded with uncertainty. We have a rising debt. We have a devalued currency. And every time that happens I have less money to buy more expensive equipment with to try and keep up with technology. We're the stockholders of America and every time our stock is worth less, I feel like I'm worth less and it's harder for me to run my business. I want a Mitt Romney. I want somebody who can generate equity for me and the stockholders of America. I think we need a leader that takes responsibilities, not a fundraising professor that blames others."
  