
    STATEMENT OF ADMINISTRATION POLICY
(House Floor)(Sponsors: Natcher (D), Kentucky; Obey (D), Wisconsin)
This Statement of Administration Policy expresses the Administration's views on H.R. 2295, the Foreign Operations, Export Financing, and Related Programs Appropriations Bill, FY 1994, as reported by the House Appropriations Committee.
The Administration supports H.R. 2295 as reported by the Committee. The bill represents a crucial, bi-partisan effort to show strong United States and multilateral support for democratic and pro-market reform in Russia and the other new independent states of the former Soviet Union. Bolstering the success of such reform is a U.S. national security priority of the highest order. Such reform can help make the United States more secure, preserve the freedom of the Russian people and the people of its neighboring states, improve international cooperation on a range of global problems, and provide a new source of jobs and growth for the U.S. and the global economy.
The Administration would oppose amendments that would reduce funds in the Committee bill for economic assistance to the new independent states of the former Soviet Union, the Export-Import Bank, the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and make a $41 million reduction in development assistance to India.
The Administration is pleased with the Committee's elimination of earmarks and the major effort it has made to reduce the limitations and restrictive provisions that would otherwise constrain the Executive Branch in responding to foreign policy issues. The Administration appreciates the Committee's willingness to provide this needed flexibility to administer effectively the funds contained in this bill, especially given the substantial reductions the Committee had to make in a number of important foreign affairs programs.
The Administration understands the constraints that the Committee faced when developing its funding recommendations. The Administration will work with the Congress as H.R. 2295 moves through the legislative process to identify modifications in funding for the bill that would enhance the ability of the President to carry out foreign policy.
  