
    Pool Reports by Nikki Schwab, Daily Mail 



Sent:
Reports:




June 10, 202213:23 PDT

FLOTUS Pool Report No. 1 - spouses luncheon at the Walt Disney Concert Hall
Hello from lovely Los Angeles! I'll be your FLOTUS pooler for today's spouses luncheon at the Summit of the Americas. We are gathered at the Frank Gehry-designed Walt Disney Concert Hall.
The lunch itself is being served outside the hall under a grove of trees. There are three tables set up with blush-tone floral centerpieces. There are several food stations nearby and a wooden bar. A podium with the summit logo has been set up for speeches.
Prior to eating, attendees filed into the immense concert hall for a performance by the Youth Orchestra Los Angeles - or YOLA. There are 10 string musicians wearing black YOLA shirts and black face masks.
Dr. Biden arrived at 12:44 p.m. She is with 10 spouses, all women.
"Good morning!" she told the performers. Biden is wearing a mint floral dress and sitting in the back row, dead center, of the front section. There are five spouses on each side of her. She's wearing a dark pink suede heel.
Renee from the Los Angeles Philharmonic welcomed Biden and the other spouses to the concert hall.
"Thank you, it's beautiful!" Biden exclaimed back.
An 11th spouse joined the women after the song was played. It took a moment for the attendees to realize the performance had ended and then the musicians were treated to another round of applause. The first ladies were talking amongst each other as pool exited at 12:51 p.m.
At 12:56 p.m. Biden walked outside for a performance by Torres Martinez Desert Cahuilla Bird Singers. The group consists of six male singers, holding what are called rattle gourds, and three female dancers.
It is 81 degrees and hot.
One of the female chefs invited to provide luncheon food briefly spoke, welcoming the spouses.
At 1:07 p.m. pool is holding as they eat.
Sending the official guest list in the next report - and trying to track down the names of some of the speakers.
More TK!



June 10, 202213:42

FLOTUS Pool Report No. 2 - names of attendees, speakers
Hi there: Here's the spouse list provided by the East Wing –
Spouse of the Prime Minister of Antigua and BarbudaT.H. Maria Vanessa BROWNEMrs. Browne
Spouse of the President of the Argentine RepublicMs. Fabiola YAÑEZMs. YañezJa-gnees
Spouse of the Prime Minister of the Commonwealth of the BahamasMrs. Ann Marie DAVISMrs. DavisDay-vis
Spouse of the President of the Federative Republic of BrazilMrs. Michelle BOLSONAROMrs. BolsonaroBowl-soh-nah-roh
Spouse of the Prime Minister of CanadaMrs. Sophie GRÉGOIRE TRUDEAUMrs. Grégoire TrudeauGreg-wah Troo-dow
Spouse of the President of the Republic of Costa RicaMrs. Signe ZEIKATEMrs. ZeikateSeeg-nay SAY-cat-tay
Spouse of the President of the Republic of EcuadorMrs. María de Lourdes ALCÍVAR DE LASSOMrs. Alcivar de LassoMah-ree-uh Day Lord-ace Al-see-var Day Lass-ose
Spouse of the President of the Co-operative Republic of GuyanaMrs. Arya ALIMrs. AliAh-lee
Spouse of the President of the Republic of PanamaMrs. Yazmín COLÓN DE CORTIZOMrs. Colón de CortizoYaz-meen Ko-LAWN day Core-TEE-so
Spouse of the President of the Republic of ParaguayMs. Silvana LÓPEZ MOREIRA de AbdoMs. López MoreiraLaw-pez More-a-ra
Spouse of the President of the Republic of PeruMs. Lilia PAREDESMs. ParedesPa-re-this
Spouse of the President of the Republic of SurinameMrs. Mellisa SANTOKHI-SEENACHERRYMrs. Santokhi-SeenacherrySan-toh-key Sen-ashery
The opening speaker's full name is Renee Durgin
And the chef was Lien Ta, co-founder of Regarding Her & Managing Partner of Here's Looking at You (HLAY) And All Day Baby.
Pool was treated to some of the food that was served at the luncheon including tacos, empanadas, Ethiopian chicken served with injera, a tostada with guacamole, smoked salmon and roe, chicken skewers, pot pies, tomato salad and more.
We're holding inside the Disney.



June 10, 202214:30 PDT

FLOTUS Pool Report No. 3 - remarks
Pool re-entered the outdoor area where the women ate at 2:09 and Biden began speaking at 2:11 p.m.
"So I don't know whether you speak English or Spanish but I think mmmmm is the same in both languages. I think there were a lot of those today. As we ate this delicious meal," she said.
She then had the group of female chefs stand alongside the tables.
"We all ate so much I hope you don't fall asleep during my speech and I will forgive you if you do," she said.
She talked of last night's dinner at the Getty and said it was "emotional seeing all the flags."
"I'm proud to share all these pieces of Los Angeles with you," she said.
Biden said it's "clear we're all here because of the love of our husbands," but she said they were there for the work too.
Translators were standing alongside the spouses who didn't speak English.
"When one nation embraces democracy, transparency, and respect for human rights, it becomes the living proof that governments can deliver for the people that they represent inspiring others to follow their lead," Biden said, echoing the sentiment expressed by her husband throughout the summit.
She also noted "we are cable girls, we are connectors."
Biden's remarks concluded at 2:18 p.m.
A final musical performance is ongoing.
I'll send longer quotes in a final report.
Video and photos I took are available for your use here: Ihttps://www.dropbox.com/sh/1rr4diw9hhy2g96/AAAvn3DAx_E2fffZTbOXZtW3a?dl=0



June 10, 202215:09 PDT

FLOTUS Pool Report No. 4 - final color/quotes
A few more details:
FLOTUS was seated next to Mrs. Bolsonaro during the musical performance and for the family photos. Their husbands had their first bilateral meeting Thursday.
The final singer was Gaby Moreno.
After the musician wrapped up, the women gathered for a family photo.
"Take one for the press and one for the sisterhood," Biden said as the women posed side-by-side for the pool and then Biden put her arms around Bolsonaro and the first lady of Paraguay.
And then more quotes from her speech:
"This week has been very special to me as first lady, and you inspired me with all of your convictions and the power of your voices and your desire find the platforms that serve all of your different countries. And together you, you all have found ways to work across borders."
"And it's clear to me that yes, we're all here because of the love of our husbands, right? But we're also here because of the love of the work."
"And I want you to know how much I value the opportunity to go beyond the surface and get to know each one of you. Injustice and corruption, poverty and pollution, disease and despair. They aren't contained by borders. We are all connected, especially in the Americas."
"If one nation is vulnerable to health crisis or poverty, it won't be long before we see the same problems on our own doorsteps. When one nation embraces democracy, transparency and respect for human rights, it becomes the living proof that governments can deliver for the people that they represent, inspiring others to follow their lead."
"As spouses - you know, I've heard this so many times - we aren't elected, but we serve the people of our countries too. We can listen and we can learn from them in a way that few others can. We are cable girls. We are connectors, right? Yes. That's what you said yesterday, we are cable girls."
"And as Joe said last night politics is personal and it's about relationships. And it's been so incredible to me to learn how much we have in common and to find places that we can work together. And that's what I kept hearing at all of the tables, what can we work on, what can we work on together, our common interests."
"May the friendships we build here today, live on long after this summit ends. All of you are in my heart and I hope that our paths cross soon and often."
Have a wonderful Friday, everyone!




  