
    THE VICE PRESIDENT: Hello, Miami! (Applause.)
What a great day.
Governor Scott, Senator Rubio, Congressman Diaz-Balart, Congressman Curbelo, Secretary Acosta, Secretary Perdue, Secretary Ross, distinguished members of the Cuban-American community, honored guests, my fellow Americans, welcome to history! (Applause.)
Welcome to a historic day, a day when America will renew our commitment to the ideal of freedom in this hemisphere, a day when the world will witness America once again standing in solidarity with the people of Cuba thanks to the strong and unwavering leadership of President Donald Trump. (Applause.)
It is the greatest privilege of my life to serve as Vice President to President Donald Trump -- a man of his word, a man of action, and a President who stands without apology as leader of the free world. (Applause.)
Since the hour of our nation's birth, the United States has stood for the proposition that all are created equal, that we are endowed by our Creator with certain inalienable rights -- life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. (Applause.)
As Americans we believe these rights belong to the entire human family. But for 58 years the people of Cuba have labored under a repressive regime that has stifled their liberty and with it, their future.
For generations, the sons and daughters of Cuba have come to our shores in search of the freedom that their friends and family at home are denied.
But while you came to the land of the free, you never forgot home. You raised your voices through the generations to demand that Cuba be free once more -- and once again, you have a President who hears you and is with you. (Applause.)
Today, President Donald Trump will make it clear that America is with you, that America stands with the persecuted, the oppressed, and the exploited in Cuba -- that this nation stands not with tyrants, but today, President Donald Trump will make it clear that the United States of America stands with the courageous men and women of Cuba who seek to reclaim their God-given rights to life and liberty. (Applause.)
Today, under the leadership of President Donald Trump America, will say once again with one voice -- Que Viva Cuba Libre -- Cuba Si, Castro No. (Applause.)
AUDIENCE: Cuba Si, Castro No, Cuba Si, Castro No, Cuba Si, Castro No!
THE VICE PRESIDENT: So With gratitude for his leadership, and with admiration for his unwavering dedication to freedom, it is now my high honor and distinct privilege to introduce to you my friend, the President of the United States of America, President Donald Trump. (Applause.)
  