
    The President today announced his intention to appoint the following individuals to be members of the President's Committee on the Arts and the Humanities. The President also announced his intention to designate Andrew Heiskell to be Chairman and Armand Deutsch and W. Barnabas McHenry as Vice Chairmen.
Andrew Heiskell, of New York, is former chairman of the board and chief executive officer of Time, Inc., and currently chairman of the board of the New York Public Library Board.
Armand S. Deutsch, of California, is currently board chairman, Starwood Corp., New York. He served as a member of the Presidential Task Force on the Arts and Humanities.
W. Barnabas McHenry, of New York, is general counsel, the Reader's Digest Association, Inc., and former Vice Chairman of the Presidential Task Force on the Arts and Humanities.
Sidney Brody, of California, is president of Brody Investment Co. in Beverly Hills.
Lloyd Cotsen, of California, is president of Neutrogena Corp. in Los Angeles.
Charles A. Dana, Jr., of Connecticut, is chairman of the board and president of Caban Corp. in New York. He also serves on the board of the Hoover Institution.
Joan Dillon, of Kansas, is president, Performing Arts Foundation, Folly Theatre, in Kansas City, Mo.
Robert S. Fryer, of California, is artistic director, Center Theatre Group, Ahamanson Theatre; a Broadway producer; and served as a member of the Presidential Task Force on the Arts and Humanities.
Nancy Hanks, of Washington, D.C., is former Chairman of the National Endowment for the Arts and served as a member of the Presidential Task Force on the Arts and Humanities.
Ignacio Lozano, of California, is editor and publisher of La Opinion, the largest Hispanic newspaper in California.
Dr. Franklin D. Murphy, of California, is chairman of the board and chief executive officer, Times Mirror Co., in Los Angeles. He served as a member of the Presidential Task Force on the Arts and Humanities.
Leonard Silverstein, of Washington, D.C., is a partner, Silverstein & Mullens; president of the National Symphony Orchestra; Chairman of the U.S. Advisory Committee on Public Diplomacy; and served as a member of the Presidential Task Force on the Arts and Humanities.
Frank Sinatra, of California, is a singer and actor.
Dr. Donald M. Stewart, of Georgia, is president of Spelman College in Atlanta.
Rawleigh Warner, Jr., of Connecticut, is chairman of the board and chief executive officer of Mobil Oil Corp. in New York, chairman of the Business Committee for the Arts, and served as a member of the Presidential Task Force on the Arts and Humanities.
Isabel Brown Wilson, of Texas, is chairman, Municipal Art Commission, in Houston, Tex.
  