
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in the issue.
June 19
In the morning and afternoon, the President attended G-8 working session meetings with foreign leaders in the Exhibit Hall of the Ludwig Museum in Cologne, Germany.
June 20
In the afternoon, the President met with President Boris Yeltsin of Russia in the Cologne Room of the Renaissance Hotel.
In the evening, the President and Hillary Clinton traveled to Bonn, Germany.
The President had a telephone conversation with Kosovo Liberation Army leader Hashim Thaci.
June 21
In the afternoon, the President and Hillary Clinton traveled to Ljubljana, Slovenia.
The President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Tony Blair of the United Kingdom concerning the two British soldiers killed in an explosion in Negrovce, Kosovo.
The President announced his intention to nominate Martin George Brennan to be Ambassador to Uganda.
The President announced his intention to appoint Richard Glenn as a member of the Arctic Research Commission.
June 22
In the morning, the President traveled to Skopje, Macedonia.
In the evening, the President and Hillary and Chelsea Clinton traveled to Aviano Air Base in Italy, and later, they returned to Washington, DC.
June 23
The President announced his intention to nominate Paul W. Fiddick to be Assistant Secretary of Administration at the Department of Agriculture.
The President announced his intention to nominate Evelyn S. Lieberman to be Under Secretary for Public Diplomacy and Public Affairs at the Department of State.
The President announced his intention to appoint W. Cullen Battle as a member of the Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission.
The President announced his intention to appoint Stewart H. Gamage as a member of the Commission on Presidential Scholars.
The President announced his intention to appoint Diane Takvorian and Roberto Ortego as members of the Advisory Council of the Border Environment Cooperation Commission.
June 24
In the morning the President met with his economic team.
The President announced his intention to nominate Michael Gaines, Timothy E. Jones, Marie F. Ragghianti, and John R. Simpson to be members of the U.S. Parole Commission.
The President announced his intention to nominate Diana E. Murphy to be Chair and member and Ruben Castillo, Sterling Johnson, Jr., Joseph Kendall, Michael O'Neill, William K. Sessions III, and John R. Steer to be members of the U.S. Sentencing Commission.
The President announced the nomination of William J. Ranier as Chairman and Commissioner of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission.
The White House announced that President Kim Dae-jung of South Korea will make an official working visit to the White House on July 2.
June 25
In the afternoon, the President held his 176th news conference in Presidential Hall (formerly Room 450) in the Old Executive Office Building.
  