
    Repeal All of Obamacare? Nah, Just KiddingFebruary 25, 2015
"If you are one of those unsophisticated voters out there in America who thought that you voted for Republican candidates last November so that they will repeal and replace Obamacare, I have bad news for you — Many of the "thinkers" on the Republican or conservative side in Washington are too scared to do it."
The GOP Mustn't Offer Obamacare LiteFebruary 1, 2015
"There is a secret that people outside of Washington, D.C., aren't aware of right now: Some Republicans in Congress are on the verge of proposing an alternative to Obamacare that imposes new tax hikes on the American people."
Another Broken Promise: Obamacare and AbortionSeptember 23, 2014
"It was bound to happen. After all the secret deals with special interests and Cornhusker Kickbacks used to pass Obamacare, after the extralegal waivers of Obamacare's new insurance regulations—a majority of which went to participants in union plans—after the multiple delays of an insurance mandate for big business—but not for individuals—you just knew that Planned Parenthood and the pro-abortion lobby would get their political payback for supporting the Democrat machine."
Your health care: Obama's $18,000 broken promiseJuly 15, 2014
"... The administration also now claims that Obamacare is working, because premiums are "only" rising by 6 or 8 percent per year.  But that's not what then-candidate Obama himself promised in 2008; he spoke frequently of "cutting," "reducing," and "lowering" premium costs.  Whether premiums go up by 1 percent or 101 percent, any increase represents a promise broken."
Yes, we can still repeal ObamaCare — let's get to workMay 19, 2014
"Many families struggling with rising premiums and co-payments might believe that they will never see relief. But the notion that we can't slow the growth of health spending is just as fanciful as the idea that ObamaCare cannot be repealed.  The only reason we can't accomplish both objectives is political will—because Washington needs a Beltway-sized reality check."
What Hillary Knew—In 1993May 13, 2014
"It is a well-known fact that Clinton came to strenuously support an individual health insurance mandate in her 2008 primary campaign against Barack Obama. Less well-remembered, however, is that Clinton considered an employer mandate—not an individual mandate—the best way to achieve "universal coverage" in her health care task force's ill-fated 1993 proposal, put forth while she was first lady."
Obamacare Is Anything But CompassionateFebruary 9, 2014
"Obamacare's Medicaid expansion doesn't just discourage work; it also prioritizes coverage for able-bodied adults over the needs of persons with disabilities. That's a dirty little secret the Obama administration and its liberal allies, in their rush to expand government-funded health coverage to millions more Americans, won't tell you. And it's yet another reason why states should resist the siren song of the administration and its leftist supporters, who plan to spend 2014 persuading them to embrace the expansion."
Obamacare flaws go beyond its executionNov 27, 2013
"For two years in Washington, President Obama and left-wing radicals ran wild. The result — Obamacare — a new federal entitlement program leading to government-run health care. We're now starting to see the fruits of this disastrous policy in a website filled with glitches."
  