
    Washington Examiner by Julia Johnson
Presidential candidate Nikki Haley recalled her time at the United Nations during a town hall in South Carolina on Monday, detailing some of the animosity that other countries held against the United States.
Worst of all, she said, is that many of those countries were recipients of billions of dollars of foreign aid from the U.S.
"When I am president, we will no longer give money to countries that hate America," Haley told attendees at a town hall in Moncks Corner, South Carolina.
"There were two things that I knew that Russia, China, Iran, and our enemies never wanted America to have when I was at the U.N.," she said. "They didn't want us to have a strong military, and they didn't want us to be energy independent."
"We need to do both of those things," Haley said. "Strong militaries don't start wars. Strong militaries prevent wars."
She further said that "when it comes to energy independence, no more going hat in hand to Saudi Arabia" for oil or purchasing what she slammed as "dirty oil from Venezuela or Iran."
Haley noticed how often it felt like other countries opposed the U.S. in the U.N., so she recalled researching each member, how often they voted against the U.S., and then how much foreign aid was afforded to them by America's government.
"I took that book, and I gave it to President Trump," she told voters. "He lost his mind."
According to her, America needed to "quit trying to buy friends. Quit paying off our enemies. Last year, we gave $50 billion in foreign aid."
"Do you know who we gave it to?" she asked.
"Pakistan, who harbored terrorists that tried to kill our soldiers. Iraq that has Iranian influence that says, 'Death to America,' every day. Zimbabwe, the most anti-American African country out there. Belarus, who's holding hands with Russia as they invade Ukraine," Haley said.
"We give money to communist Cuba, who we named a state sponsor of terrorism," she added.
"And the one that's the most embarrassing: We give money to China," she said.
Haley's campaign also announced on Monday that she would deliver a "major foreign policy speech" addressing China on Friday at the American Enterprise Institute.
  