
    Warren Bell, of California, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for Public Broadcasting for a term expiring January 31, 2012, vice Kenneth Y. Tomlinson, resigned.
Chris Boskin, of California, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for Public Broadcasting for a term expiring January 31, 2012, vice Katherine Milner Anderson, resigned.
Linda Mysliwy Conlin, of New Jersey, to be First Vice President of the Export-Import Bank of the United States for a term expiring January 20, 2009, vice April H. Foley, term expired.
J. Joseph Grandmaison, of New Hampshire, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Export-Import Bank of the United States for a term expiring January 20, 2009. (Reappointment)
Thomas E. Harvey, of New York, to be an Assistant Secretary of Veterans Affairs (Congressional Affairs), vice Pamela M. Iovino, resigned.
Roger L. Hunt, of Nevada, to be a Member of the Board of Trustees of the Harry S Truman Scholarship Foundation for a term expiring December 10, 2009, vice Scott O. Wright, term expired.
John E. Kidde, of California, to be a Member of the Board of Trustees of the Harry S Truman Scholarship Foundation for a term expiring December 10, 2011, vice Frederick G. Slabach, term expired.
John Peyton, of Florida, to be a Member of the Board of Trustees of the Harry S Truman Scholarship Foundation for a term expiring December 10, 2011, vice Patrick Lloyd McCrory, term expired.
David H. Pryor, of Arkansas, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for Public Broadcasting for a term expiring January 31, 2008, vice Christy Carpenter, term expired.
William B. Wark, of Maine, to be a Member of the Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board for a term of five years, vice Rixio Enrique Medina, resigned.
Robert L. Wilkie, of North Carolina, to be an Assistant Secretary of Defense, vice Daniel R. Stanley.
William E. Wright, of Florida, to be a Member of the Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board for a term of five years, vice Gerald V. Poje, term expired.
  