
    The President. Well, listen, thank you all for introducing yourselves. I want to thank you very much, Olga, for giving me a chance to visit with these students.
First of all, I'm looking forward to hearing about your stories and your dreams. There's no question that education is what's going to help change the world; it'll certainly change your personal lives. But it also has the opportunity to change regions in the world. And I am excited that all of you have had a chance to go to higher education and that you aspire beyond your current education to achieve new things, new dreams—Michigan State Law School—mean, Michigan Law School—excuse me—or mathematics. I mean; it's uplifting for me to be with you.
America strongly supports education initiatives at home and abroad. I think the best thing we can do is to invite students to come to our country. You'll see what America is really like when you come. But you don't have to, you know, just come to America to study. You can study all over the world, and then go back to your countries and become productive citizens and apply what you've learned and help your countries grow, because the potential in this part of the world is wide open. We kind of have to do a little political work in some places, but it's wide open. And we wish you all the very best. I'm honored to be with you.
Stanko, why don't you share some thoughts with us.
Stanko Stankov. Well, I have to—I mean, I agree with the point about education. There are many challenges here in the region, especially after Bulgaria now entered European Union. And this period of transition, I think, is going to be best dealt with by having a good education and having competent people who can stand up to the challenge and just face it the proper way.
The President. So, Stanko, what was your major?
Mr. Stankov. My major was business administration.
The President. Oh, that's right. Yeah. And so what are you going to do?
Mr. Stankov. Oh, first I'm going to do some work here in Bulgaria, because I need some work experience before I apply to a grad school in the United States— that's where I hope to apply. And after I do this work for 2 or 3 years, I'm going to go probably to the States and study, do my masters there. And after that, well, we'll see.
The President. And have you found a job?
Mr. Stankov. Yes, I'm being interviewed still. And tomorrow I have a very important interview. [Laughter] My next job interview. [Laughter]
The President. Well, if the interviewer is listening—[laughter]—Stanko is looking for a little work. [Laughter] It'll make your mother happy when you find a job, won't it?
Mr. Stankov. Yes, she will be happy.
The President. That's good. Well, thank you very much, Stanko. Thank you all.
  