
    Moldova has worked hard to build democratic institutions and a prosperous economy, as well as to ensure its sovereignty and security. The United States has provided assistance to Moldova in these efforts. As Moldova prepares to sign an Association Agreement and Deep and Comprehensive Free Trade Agreement with the European Union on June 27, 2014, the United States has targeted programs to help Moldova advance its European aspirations.
Vice President Joe Biden announced during his meeting with Moldovan President Nicolae Timofti on June 7 an additional $8 million in assistance to Moldova, pending consultations with the U.S. Congress. This assistance will support Moldova's European choice and mitigate vulnerabilities to external pressure.
This package will build upon $2.7 million in U.S. assistance announced on March 3, which is helping Moldovan businesses to increase productivity and competiveness, and ensuring that they are better positioned to take advantage of European markets, as Moldova and the EU develop closer economic ties. When added to funds previously budgeted, the United States is providing approximately $31 million in assistance to Moldova this year.
Since 1992, the United States has provided approximately $1.2 billion in assistance to Moldova, including a five-year, $262 million Millennium Challenge Corporation (MCC) Compact launched in 2010.
U.S. assistance to Moldova:

Improves governance, increases transparency and accountability, strengthens the rule of law, combats corruption, facilitates informed citizen participation, strengthens independent media and supports the implementation of anti-discrimination legislation;
Promotes economic growth by reducing barriers to trade, improves the business environment, and increases productivity and competitiveness;
Supports municipalities with energy efficiency plans; and supports Moldova as a member of the Energy Community;
Enhances civic and economic ties between citizens in Transnistria and the rest of Moldova, underscoring the U.S. commitment to peaceful reintegration;
Builds the capacity of Moldovan law enforcement;
Supports Moldova's capacity to effectively participate in international peacekeeping operations and promotes the professionalization of Moldova's armed forces; and
Encourages reforms necessary for European integration.

  