
    Pool Reports by Anita Kumar, POLITICO 



Sent:
Reports:




June 10, 202110:19

Travel pool report #1 
St Ives, England
June 10, 2021 Good morning from St Ives, a seaside village in Cornwall, England.
Your pool has arrived near the security perimeter of the G-7 after two separate 75-minute drives through the English countryside following a 5 am gather time.
Your pool has been Covid tested with a UK test that requires both throat and nasal swabs using the same stick. Pool is holding in vans until further notice.
POTUS will meet with British Prime Minister Boris Johnson this afternoon.
A previously scheduled trip to St. Michael’s Mount for today was canceled due to bad weather.



June 10, 202112:27

Travel pool report #2 
St Ives, England
June 10, 2021
Your pool has moved to a hold outside the Tregenna Castle hotel. We have not seen POTUS.
From the Office of the First Lady:
In addition to the G7 program of events and meetings, the First Lady will have an independent schedule. As you saw yesterday at RAF Mildenhall, the First Lady spoke about the importance of supporting military families, calling it a "national security imperative," and thanked the service members and their families for being our "ambassadors to the world." She also hosted a roundtable with U.S. military spouses who are focusing on the wellbeing and emotional health of service members and their families.
Today, she will meet separately with Mrs. Carrie Johnson, the spouse of Prime Minister Boris Johnson. Friday, she will participate in the G7 Summit welcoming events and an additional scheduling update is expected for this day. On Saturday, in addition to participating in the program for spouses of G7 leaders, she will meet with members of Bude Surf Veterans, a local volunteer group that assists UK military veterans with physical or mental health injuries through surfing. On Sunday, before she departs, she will meet with UK veterans who participated in Walk of America, a 2018 expedition led by Walking with the Wounded. The First Lady served as the patron of this expedition, in which three veterans from the United States, and three veterans from the United Kingdom, walked 1,000 miles across the United States to share the stories of wounded, ill, or injured service members.
The First Lady's Communications Director, Elizabeth Alexander, and her Press Secretary, Michael LaRosa, are traveling with her on this trip. Feel free to reach out to us with any questions.



June 10, 202110:10

Travel pool report #3 
?St Ives, England
June 10, 2021
?Motorcade is rolling from the castle at 3:07 pm.
Though the guidance for today has listed this afternoon’s activities as embargoed, there is no longer an embargo. Also the full pool will be covering the events.
Service is spotty. Pool reports may be delayed.



June 10, 202110:16

Travel pool report #4 
?Carbis Bay
June 10, 2021
Motorcade arrived a few minutes later at 3:11 pm after an uneventful ride. Police officers lined the street. A few spectators watched the motorcade pass.



June 10, 202110:27

Travel poor report #5 
??Carbis Bay
June 10, 2010
Your pool was escorted to a spot at 3:17 pm to witness POTUS and PR Johnson and their wives on a deck overlooking St Ives Bay, England.
"It gorgeous. I don't want to go home," Biden said.
The four then climbed stairs to go inside a building where POTUS and Johnson looked at the old charter. A man was showing them the charter inside a glass case but your pooler could not hear most of their conversation. POTUS did mention something about the Gettysburg Address. All three men wore masks.



June 10, 202110:51

Travel pool report #6 
?Carbis Bay
June 10, 2021
A few minutes later, POTUS and Johnson moved to another part of the room and sat in two chairs facing the media for photos.
POTUS and Johnson welcomed POTUS to the country and mentioned that it was his first overseas trip as president. "I think it's your first big overseas trip,"
POTUS mentioned he was happy to meet Mrs. Johnson. "I'm thrilled to meet your wife. I told the prime minister we have something in common: we both married above our station."
"I'm not going to disagree with the president on that or anything else," Johnson said.
"Fantastic to see you," Johnson said.
A bit of color from earlier courtesy of David Sanger.
As they looked at the charter documents and photos, Johnson noted that Churchill showed up in his naval uniform. POTUS responded that he could because of his previous life. Johnson pointed out a photo of Averell Harriman at the conference and POTUS said that he had spoken to Harriman shortly before he died about the signing of the Atlantic Charter. Johnson pointed out a section of the charter that embraces labor rights and said that it's rumored that Chamberlain got it inserted. POTUS made a fist of approval. They looked at a photo of one of FDR's sons who accompanied his father to the same 1941 meeting.
Pool was ushered out after about 90 seconds.
Earlier when we saw the two wives, Mrs. Johnson was wearing a brought red dress and Dr. Biden was wearing a black jacket over a black and white polka dotted dress. The jacket had the word LOVE on the back.



June 10, 202111:27

Travel pool report #7
?Carbis Bay
June 10, 2021
FLOTUS had a two-minute gaggle with media outside the building after she and Mrs. Johnson had tea.
"It's really nice to be here in Cornwall. It's my first time. Obviously it's beautiful for those of you have been here before."
"Joe and I are really looking forward to meeting everyone at the G7."
On her jacket, which had the word LOVE on the back:
"I think that we're bringing love from America. This is a global conference and we are trying to bring unity across the globe and I think it's needed right bow, that people feel a sense of unity from all the countries and feel a sense hope after this year of the pandemic."
On her husband being prepared for the week:
"I think he's so well prepared. He's been studying for weeks, working up to today. Of course he knows most of the leaders that'll be here. Joe loves foreign policy. This is his forte."
When asked if he was prepared for the Putin meeting, she said "Oh my gosh. He's over prepared."
On meeting with the Royals:
"Well, we're hoping to focus, I think, on education. Joe and I are both looking forward to meeting the Queen. That's an exciting part of the visit for us. We've looked forward to this for weeks and now it's finally here. It's a beautiful beginning."



June 10, 202111:18

Travel pool report #8 
?Carbis Bay,
June 10, 2021
Pool is holding in vans outside the bilat.
The White House passes on this information:
The President is participating in a bilateral meeting with Prime Minister Boris Johnson and members of the United Kingdom delegation. Meeting participants are as follows:
U.S. ManifestThe PresidentT.H. Antony Blinken, Secretary of StateT.H. Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security AffairsT.H. Yael Lempert, Chargé d’Affaires, U.S. EmbassyT.H. Jeffrey Zients, Coordinator of the COVID-19 Response and Counselor to the PresidentT.H. Daleep Singh, Deputy Assistant to the President and Deputy National Security Advisor, and Deputy National Economic Council DirectorT.H. Dr. Amanda Sloat, Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for European Affairs, National Security CouncilRebecca Neff, Director for European Affairs
U.K. ManifestT.R.H. Boris Johnson, Prime Minister of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern IrelandT.R.H. Dominic Raab, MP, Secretary of State for Foreign and Commonwealth Affairs of the United Kingdom and Northern IrelandH.E. Karen Pierce, Ambassador of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland to the United StatesLord David Frost, Minister of StateSir Stephen Lovegrove, National Security AdvisorMr. Will Gelling, Private Secretary for Foreign AffairsProfessor John Bew, Foreign Policy Special AdvisorMr. Jack Doyle, Director of Communications



June 10, 202112:03

Travel pool report #9 
???Carbis Bay
June 10, 2021
Motorcade is rolling from Johnson bilat at 5:02 pm.



June 10, 202112:17

Travel pool report #10 
?St Ives
June 10, 2021
Motorcade arrived back at the castle hotel at 5:11 pm.
The ride was uneventful. Some spectators lined the closed streets, smiling, waving and snapping photos on their phones. Many, many police officers stood guard just inside the makeshift fence along the sidewalks.
POTUS and Johnson met for more than 90 minutes.



June 10, 202113:17

Travel pool report #11 
St Ives
June 10, 2021
Pool has gathered on a lawn outside the Tregenna Castle hotel, where POTUS is expected to deliver remarks shortly.
The lawn is surrounded by the castle hotel's villas, each of which has a balcony, though no one is on them currently.
A lectern is set up with the presidential seal. A Teleprompter has been erected in front.
The remarks will be carried live on the White House's website.



June 10, 202113:28

Travel pool report #12 
St Ives
June 10, 2021
POTUS walked out to the lectern at 6:27 pm.
It’s a cool 63 degrees with cloudy skies.



June 10, 202113:57

Travel pool report #13 
??St Ives
June 10, 2021
POTUS wore a dark blue suit and a blue and white stripped tie.
Pfizer CEO and Chairman Albert Bourla stood a few feet away to his right.
POTUS wrapped up remarks at 6:42 pm. He and Bourla shook hands before Bourla began speaking. POTUS stood to his left.
POTUS turned and smiled at a question from NBC’s Mike Memoli about his upcoming meeting with Vladimir Putin but did not stop or answer. He also didn’t answer a subsequent question from Bloomberg’s Jennifer Jacobs on Northern Ireland.
Pool spotted Jeff Zients standing and watching the speech alongside the pool. In total, about three dozen people were standing and watching from the lawn.
As POTUS spoke, aides Kate Bedingfield, Jen Psaki and Jake Sullivan appeared on one of the villa’s balconies to watch.



June 10, 202114:03

Travel pool report #14/ lid 
St Ives
June 10, 2021
At 6:49 pm, the White House called a travel photo lid.
Pool waiting to depart for the long ride back to the pool hotel.
Goodnight from St Ives, England.



June 10, 202117:22

Travel pool report #15
Your pool has left POTUS in St Ives but the White House passes on this information:
On background:
As a gesture of friendship and in recognition of their shared interest in cycling, President Biden gave Prime Minister Johnson an American-made touring bicycle and bike helmet custom-made by Bilenky Cycle Works, a small family business located in Philadelphia, PA that crafts American bicycles.
In 2010, Bilenky Cycle Works founded the Philadelphia Bike Expo to promote cycling culture. The expo is now one of the largest cycling trade shows in the United States.



June 10, 202119:41

Travel pool report #16 
Greetings again from England.
Passing along one more piece of information from the White House tonight, though it's well after midnight here.
Statement by Deputy Press Secretary Andrew Bates:
"Earlier today, White House staff were briefed by Democratic Senators working on the bipartisan agreement on infrastructure. The President appreciates the Senators' work to advance critical investments we need to create good jobs, prepare for our clean energy future, and compete in the global economy. Questions need to be addressed, particularly around the details of both policy and pay-fors, among other matters. Senior White House staff and the Jobs Cabinet will work with the Senate group in the days ahead to get answers to those questions, as we also consult with other Members in both the House and the Senate on the path forward."




  