
    Today, President Donald J. Trump announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key positions in his Administration:
Kyle Hauptman, of Maine, to be a Member of the National Credit Union Administration Board.
Mr. Hauptman is currently Senator Tom Cotton's advisor on economic policy, as well as Staff Director of the Senate Banking Committee's Subcommittee on Economic Policy. Prior to joining Senator Cotton's office, Mr. Hauptman worked on the 2016 Presidential Transition Team.
From 2015 to 2016, Mr. Hauptman served on the United States Securities and Exchange Commission's Advisory Committee for Small and Emerging Companies. Previously, he was Mitt Romney's policy advisor for financial services during his 2012 campaign.
Previously, Mr. Hauptman was a fixed-income trader in Tokyo, New York City, and Sydney, Australia. He earned his MBA from Columbia University and his B.A. from UCLA.
Geeta Pasi, of New York, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia.
Ms. Pasi, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Career Minister, is Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary for African Affairs at the Department of State. She previously served as United States Ambassador to Chad and as United States Ambassador to Djibouti.
Ms. Pasi also served as Director of Career Development and Assignments for the State Department, Director of the Department's Office of East African Affairs, Deputy Chief of Mission at the United States Embassy in Dhaka, Bangladesh, and Deputy Principal Officer at the United States Consulate General in Frankfurt, Germany. Her other past assignments include Afghanistan Desk Officer in the Office of Pakistan, Afghanistan, and Bangladesh Affairs, Political Officer at the United States Embassy in New Delhi, India, and Political Officer at the United States Embassy in Accra, Ghana.
Ms. Pasi earned her B.A. from Duke University and her M.A. from New York University. She has won numerous Department of State performance awards, including the Matilde W. Sinclaire Language Award. She speaks French, German, Hindi, Romanian, and Russian.
Cynthia Kierscht, of Minnesota, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Islamic Republic of Mauritania.
Ms. Kierscht, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Counselor, currently serves as a Deputy Assistant Secretary in the State Department's Bureau of Western Hemisphere Affairs. Prior to that, she was the Director and Deputy Director of the Office of Canadian Affairs for the State Department.
Overseas, Ms. Kierscht served at the United States Embassies in Bogota, Colombia, Rabat, Morocco, and Cairo, Egypt, in the United States Consulate in Marseille, France, and at the United States Interests Section in Tripoli, Libya. Among her other assignments at the State Department, Ms. Kierscht worked in the Executive Secretariat and the Operations Center, in the Bureau of Near Eastern Affairs, and in the Bureau of Counterterrorism.
Ms. Kierscht earned her B.A. from Carleton College in Northfield, Minnesota and her M.P.P. from Harvard University's Kennedy School of Government. She speaks Arabic, French, and Spanish.
  