
    WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman John K. Delaney's Presidential campaign announced the hiring of Monica Biddix as their Iowa Communications Director.
"Team Delaney is pleased to welcome Monica to our campaign," said John Davis, Senior Advisor. "As one of the best in the business, she brings a wealth of knowledge and experience in navigating the Iowa political landscape and a tireless work ethic to match. As our campaign digs its heels into Iowa in the coming months, we know we can trust Monica to spread our message to a broad audience across the state."
Biddix brings nearly a decade of political experience, primarily in Iowa, that includes working with the Iowa Legislature, spearheading issue advocacy campaigns and organizing around the Iowa Caucuses. After managing state legislative races in both the Iowa Senate and the Iowa House, Biddix served as Communications Director for Progress Iowa and the Iowa Democratic Party. Most recently, Biddix served as the campaign manager for Dr. Andy McGuire's gubernatorial campaign. In addition to her work in Iowa, Monica has worked across the nation in statewide, congressional and municipal elections.
"I am very excited to join Team Delaney, and be part of a campaign that wants to unify our country moving forward," said Monica Biddix. "I believe Iowans and Americans are tired of partisan bickering and are ready for a leader with long-term solutions and real plans for the future. As President, John Delaney is ready to bring together a nation that is deeply divided and focus on getting things done and promoting the common good."
Next week, Delaney's sixth television ad will air in Iowa in which he shares his grandfather's immigration story and calls for a "shared humanity." The spot titled, "A Shared Humanity" will run in the Des Moines and Cedar Rapids markets and is the first of a multi-ad, summer-long Iowa television buy. Delaney is scheduled to make campaign stops in 14 counties at the end of this month. This will be Delaney's 12th trip to Iowa since he announced his candidacy for President last year.
  