
    Today, President Donald J. Trump announced his intent to nominate:
Justin R. Walker of Kentucky, to serve as Judge on the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Kentucky. 
Justin Walker is Assistant Professor of Law and Co-Director of the Ordered Liberty Program at Brandeis School of Law at the University of Louisville. He also serves as Partner of Counsel at Dinsmore & Shohl, LLP in Louisville, Kentucky, where his practice focuses on commercial and appellate litigation. Before returning home to Kentucky, Mr. Walker was an appellate attorney at Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP in Washington, D.C. Mr. Walker served as a law clerk to U.S. Supreme Court Justice Anthony Kennedy and then-Judge Brett Kavanaugh of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit. He earned his J.D., magna cum laude, from Harvard Law School, where he served as Notes Editor on the Harvard Law Review, and his B.A., summa cum laude, from Duke University.
Daniel Z. Epstein of Texas, to serve as Judge on the U.S. Court of Federal Claims.
Daniel Epstein is Special Assistant to President Donald J. Trump and Senior Associate Counsel to the President. Before joining the White House in January 2017, Mr. Epstein was counsel to both the Presidential Transition Team and the Trump for President Campaign. In 2011, Mr. Epstein founded Cause of Action Institute, Inc., a 501(c)(3) public interest law firm, and served as its Executive Director and President of the Board until 2016. At Cause of Action, he represented pro bono clients in government investigations and litigated regulatory, constitutional, political, and public law matters. Earlier in his career, Mr. Epstein also served as Counsel for the House of Representatives Committee on Oversight and Government Reform. Mr. Epstein earned his J.D. from Emory University School of Law, his B.A., cum laude, from Kenyon College, and he is currently a Ph.D. candidate in the Department of Political Science at George Washington University.
W. Stephen Muldrow of Puerto Rico, to serve as the United States Attorney for the District of Puerto Rico.
W. Stephen Muldrow currently serves an Assistant United States Attorney in the Middle District of Florida, having previously served as the Office's Acting United States Attorney, First Assistant United States Attorney, and Chief of the Major Crimes Section. Mr. Muldrow previously served as an Assistant United States Attorney in the District of Puerto for six years. Mr. Muldrow's prosecutorial career has focused on drug trafficking offenses, money laundering, and violent crimes. Mr. Muldrow began his Department of Justice service as a Trial Attorney in the Tax Division. He received his J.D., cum laude, from American University Washington College of Law, his M.A. from American University School of International Service, and his B.A. from Bucknell University.
  