
    Governors
Letter from 28 State Governors: "As governors, we support smart and strategic trade agreements that promote economic growth in our states and expand opportunities for our workers, farmers, and manufacturers. Nearly 25 years after the passage of the North American Free Trade Agreement, it is time to update our trade policies with two of our most critical trading partners. The United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement (USMCA) is a comprehensive, 21st Century trade agreement that protects workers across the nation, establishes a level playing field among the United States and our partners, and encourages free and fair trade."
Former Governor Tom Vilsack (D-IA): "Having this agreement pass creates optimism, creates hopefulness about the future, which is really important, which is incredibly important for agriculture and for the food industry, to have that optimism that things are going to be better. This isn't about giving President Trump a victory. It's about giving the farmers in this room a victory," Vilsack said. "It's about giving all the people who are connected to the food and agriculture industry a victory. It's about giving the American economy a victory."
Former Governor Tom Corbett (R-PA): "There is clearly much on the line for Pennsylvania when it comes to a new trade deal with Canada and Mexico. Over 42,000 jobs rely on trade with Mexico and Canada and this deal will allow for the creation of even more export-related jobs here in Pennsylvania. That's why passing a new deal must be about jobs, not a political party's agenda. Members on both sides of the aisle need to work together to get this passed as soon as possible."
Former Governor Jim Hodges (D-SC) and Former Governor George Allen (R-VA): "Although we affiliate with different political parties, one thing that should always bring us together is the opportunity to secure and preserve American prosperity. That's why we're coming together, having served as governors from different states and different parties, in support of the United States-Mexico-Canada trade agreement. […] Congress should proceed with a robust debate on the agreement as soon as possible. We must end the trade and tariff disputes that are harming American farmers and most manufacturing workers, as well as leading to many higher prices for American consumers. No agreement is perfect, but—as the two of us know—good compromise is found when both sides cede on some things, come out from their corners and meet in the middle. We need lawmakers from both sides of the aisle to come together and ratify the United States-Mexico-Canada trade agreement to secure the future of our states and the future of our country."
Former Governor Howard Dean (D-VT): "Or consider how USMCA would boost wages for workers in the auto industry, which supports over 7 million U.S. jobs. To receive duty-free treatment under USMCA, 75 percent of a vehicle's value must originate in North America, up from the current 62.5 percent requirement under NAFTA. This change would create more jobs at auto-parts suppliers. USMCA also requires nearly half of all car parts to be made by workers earning at least $16 an hour. That provision would ensure American manufacturing workers earn strong wages. This deal has the strongest labor provisions of any U.S. trade agreement in history. It requires all three countries to protect labor rights recognized by the International Labor Organization. It also makes it easier for Mexican workers to form unions and collectively bargain. That'll help American workers by raising wages and benefits in Mexico — thereby making it less attractive for U.S. companies to shift production and operations to our southern neighbor."
Former Governor Gary Locke (D-WA): "Congress will soon vote on the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement (USMCA), a landmark trade pact finalized by all three nations last November," former Democratic Governor of Washington Gary Locke writes. USMCA is a "historic win for workers," Locke says. "It would guarantee fairer pay through wage requirements, ensure safe working environments, and strengthen workers' rights to unionize for better benefits."
Letter from State Lieutenant Governors: "As lieutenant governors, one of our main responsibilities is to promote economic growth, and under the new provisions renegotiated in the USMCA, we believe this agreement will benefit all our states and improve trade conditions for the business community . . . We believe the USMCA deal provides American workers and farmers with the necessary protections and framework for robust economic growth in the 21st century. We urge the passage of this trade deal and remain able and ready to promote its achievements."
State Legislators
Alabama State Legislative Resolution: "By this resolution, we memorialize the Congress of the United States to approve the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement, USMCA, in order to ensure continuity in trade among the three North American economic partners."
Alabama Senate President Pro Tem Del Marsh (R-AL): "Alabama dairy, poultry, and other farmers will have access to foreign markets. The USMCA also requires more car parts to be assembled in the United States, which will benefit Alabama's growing auto manufacturer sector. This mutually beneficial trade deal can help continue the robust growth we have had in the last few years, and I urge Congress to approve it as fast as possible."
Alaska State Legislative Resolution: "By signing the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement, Canada, Mexico, and the United States have agreed to make targeted improvements to the North American Free Trade Agreement that build on their enormously successful partnership and shared competitiveness in the global marketplace … the Alaska State Legislature supports the ratification of the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement and urges the United States Congress to ratify the agreement as soon as possible."
Arkansas State Legislative Resolution: "The House of Representatives encourage the United States Congress to ratify the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement in order to ensure continuity in trade between the three North American economic partners."
Arizona State Legislative Resolution: "A seamless transition between the current NAFTA and the newly negotiated USMCA will ensure that none of the benefits of continuity in trade accomplished by the integration of the three North American economies will be lost…the Senate of the State of Arizona prays that the United States Congress ratify the newly negotiated USMCA to ensure continuity in trade among the three North American partners."
Florida Legislators: A group of over 30 Florida legislators wrote – "The United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement trade deal is a positive move for Floridians. This trade deal provides support for new innovations and advances in agriculture and technology. USMCA creates tremendous positive impact for Florida's workers and opens up markets for American farmers."
Idaho State Legislative Resolution: "We support the ratification of USMCA and urge Congress to ratify the agreement as soon as possible."
Iowa State Legislative Resolution: "The Iowa General Assembly recognizes that a multilateral trade agreement between the United States, Canada, and Mexico will strengthen Iowa's economy and benefit Iowa's farmers and workers, and urges Congress to enact legislation to implement such a multilateral trade agreement."
Maine House Minority Leader Kathleen Dillingham (R-ME): "Given our unique geographic position, a fair free trade agreement between the United States, Mexico, and Canada is important to the health of Maine . . . I also want to lend my support for the Agreement as a way to improve on the NAFTA and ensure everyone in North America benefits from open markets."
Michigan State Legislative Resolution: "The United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement (USMCA) creates a 21st Century trade agreement for North America. The renegotiated USMCA has provisions favorable to U.S. autoworkers that would help level the playing field between U.S. and Mexican autoworkers. The updated agreement is also more beneficial to the agricultural sector than NAFTA and will offer a higher degree of certainty and stability to Michigan farmers. The new IP provisions are the most comprehensive of any multilateral U.S. trade agreement and are vastly superior to those included in NAFTA."
Minnesota Legislators: "Minnesota has a vested interest in the ratification of this historic agreement. It would strengthen a relationship that is already vital to our economy. Minnesota enjoys vibrant agriculture, small business, and manufacturing communities that will be strengthened through the USMCA. In 2017 alone, Minnesota's exports to our North American neighbors totaled $6.7 billion."
Montana State Legislative Resolution: "The Montana Legislature supports the ratification of the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement on trade by all countries as soon as possible."
North Carolina State Legislative Resolution: "The General Assembly memorializes the Congress of the United States to approve the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement in order to ensure continuity in trade among the three North American economic partners."
Pennsylvania State Legislative Resolution: "RESOLVED (the Senate concurring), That the General Assembly of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania urge . . . the Congress of the United States to ratify the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement on trade by all countries as soon as possible."
Pennsylvania House Speaker Mike Turzai (R-PA): "Great to have @VP in PA today to talk about #USMCA. This trade deal will help create more jobs for PA workers!"
State Representative John Hershey (R-PA): "#USMCA would be a huge win for PA manufacturers and farmers, many of which are in the 82nd district. THANK YOU, @VP, for coming to PA and hearing our concerns!"
South Carolina State Legislative Resolution: "Be it resolved by the House of Representatives . . . by this resolution, memorialize the Congress of the United States to approve the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement USMCA in order to ensure continuity in trade among the three North American economic partners."
Tennessee State Legislative Resolution: "This General Assembly thanks President Trump for his work in negotiating the USMCA to help improve international competitiveness and fair trade and strengthen the economies of all nations involved in this trade agreement…we praise President Trump for his work in negotiating the landmark United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement and his ongoing support of American businesses, workers, and farmers."
Texas Legislators: A group of over 75 Texas legislators wrote – "The trade landscape has shifted over the past two decades, and we are calling upon Congress to take immediate action to shape the future of global trade and provide a platform of modernization that will encourage fair market access, protections for workers, and the ability to further innovate under a collaborative agreement that is designed for the 21st Century. The USMCA positions our country for this next chapter and also allows Texas to continue to lead."
Washington Legislators: Over 30 Washington legislators wrote – "Continued, uninterrupted trade with Canada and Mexico is vital to Washington State's economy and to the jobs that support thousands of our citizens and their families. That is why we believe the USMCA is one of the most important agreements for the economic viability of Washington State."
Wisconsin State Legislative Resolution: "It is especially important to have a solid trade relationship with Mexico and Canada, and the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement would strengthen these relationships, and expand opportunities for Wisconsin exporters."
County and Municipal Officials
Association of California Cities-Orange County: "The Association is pleased to support the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement (USMCA). We strongly believe that access to fair and balanced trade will improve access to good middle-class jobs and strengthen the nation's economy; thereby improving the lives of all Americans."
California County Supervisors: A coalition of Supervisors from Fresno, King, Tehama, and Tulare Counties wrote – "We appreciate the Administration's efforts to assist the agricultural industry in California. Our growers continue to provide the safest and most reliable supply of food and fiber in the world and do so with the highest production costs and highest regulatory standards. Through aggressive investment and implementation of cutting edge technology, we have created a significant economic driver for our local and global economy. Our growers need free and fair trade and encourage the timely approval and implementation of the USMCA."
Del Norte County, California Board of Supervisors: "Del Norte County is ready, willing and able to compete in a world market that looks out for the United States best interests for free and fair trade. Our County encourages timely implementation of the USMCA."
Merced County, California Board of Supervisors: "As we continue to work toward an agreement that allows for the fair and profitable trade of goods throughout North America, the Merced County Board of Supervisors is hopeful that Congress will also recognize the value of this proposal to help implement it in a timely fashion."
Coalition of 25 Mississippi Mayors: "We, the undersigned Mayors in Mississippi urge Congress to approve the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement to rebalance and modernize the North American Free Trade Agreement into a 21st century, high standard trade deal, and to better serve the interests of American workers, farmers, ranchers, and businesses, and support mutually beneficial trade leading to freer markets, fairer trade, and robust economic growth in North America."
Fulton County, New York Resolution: "Rebalancing the terms and conditions originally contained in NAFTA is in the best interest of residents and businesses of New York and the United States in general…the Board of Supervisors herby supports the passage of the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement and urges its representatives in Congress to pursue swift ratification."
Herkimer County, New York Resolution: "The Herkimer County Legislature herby supports passage of the Unite States-Mexico-Canada Agreement and urges its representatives in Congress to pursue swift ratification."
Coos County, Oregon Board of Commissioners: "To be able to continue trade with Canada and Mexico is vital to Oregon State's economy and to the jobs that support the tens of thousands of members in our county. For those families, as well as companies, we believe the USMCA is one of the most important agreements for the economic future of the State of Oregon."
Bexar County, Texas Resolution: "The Bexar County Commissioners Court supports the passage of the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement by the United States Congress in order to support mutually beneficial trade between the three [Canada and Mexico] countries."
Borden County, Texas Resolution: "The Borden County Commissioners Court supports the passage of the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement by the United States Congress in order to help secure the future prosperity of Borden County and the State of Texas."
Cooke County, Texas Resolution: "The Cooke County Commissioners Court supports the passage of the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement by the United States Congress in order to help secure the future prosperity of Cooke County and the State of Texas."
Cottle County, Texas Resolution: "The Cottle County Commissioners Court supports the passage of the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement by the United States Congress in order to help secure the future prosperity of Cottle County and the State of Texas."
Deaf Smith County, Texas Resolution: "The Deaf Smith County Commissioners Court supports the passage of the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement by the United States Congress in order to help secure the future prosperity of Deaf Smith County and the State of Texas."
Falls County, Texas Resolution: "The Falls County Commissioners Court supports the passage of the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement by the United States Congress in order to help secure the future prosperity of Falls County and the State of Texas."
Hill County, Texas Resolution: "The Hill County Commissioners Court supports the passage of the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement by the United States Congress in order to help secure the future prosperity of Hill County and the State of Texas."
Hutchinson County, Texas Resolution: "The Hutchinson County Commissioners Court supports the passage of the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement by the United States Congress in order to help secure the future prosperity of Hutchinson County and the State of Texas."
McLennan County, Texas Resolution: "The Commissioners Court of McLennan County supports the passage of the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement by the United States Congress in order to help secure the future prosperity of McLennan County and the State of Texas."
Montague County, Texas Resolution: "The Montague County Commissioners Court supports the passage of the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement by the United States Congress in order to help secure the future prosperity of Montague County and the State of Texas."
Polk County, Texas Resolution: "The Polk County Commissioners Court supports the passage of the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement by the United States Congress in order to help secure the future prosperity of Polk County and the State of Texas."
San Patricio County, Texas Resolution: "The San Patricio County Commissioners Court supports the passage of the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement by the United States Congress in order to help secure the future prosperity of San Patricio County and the State of Texas."
Waller County, Texas Resolution: "The Waller County Commissioners Court supports the passage of the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement by the United States Congress in order to help secure the future prosperity of Waller County and the State of Texas."
Young County, Texas Resolution: "The Young County Commissioners Court supports the passage of the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement by the United States Congress in order to help secure the future prosperity of Young County and the State of Texas."
Huntsville Mayor Tommy Battle (R-AL): "International trade is critically important for our local economy. It means investments and jobs, which translate into new opportunities for our citizens. I support ratification for USMCA."
Merced Mayor Michael Murphy (Unaffiliated-CA): "On behalf of the City of Merced, I am pleased to lend my support to the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement (USMCA). As a community that relies heavily on the agriculture industry for jobs and economic development, Merced is keenly aware of the impacts that agricultural trade can have on local economies."
San Diego Mayor Kevin Faulconer (R-CA): "Free trade works, and we need to pass the USMCA to keep goods and services moving between San Diego and other border cities."
Sanibel Councilman Jason Maughan (R-FL): "Florida's export of Made-in-America products alone is nearly $60 Billion Dollars per year. The continuation of this strong trade relationship with the World guarantees hundreds of thousands of American jobs in Florida. Your determined negotiation of the USMCA has protected those jobs and allowed Business to flourish without suffering unfair and unjust trade restrictions from foreign governments."
Vicksburg Mayor George Flaggs (I-MS): "The USMCA is a must for Vicksburg; it is a must for Mississippi; and, most importantly, it is a must for future prosperity of our great nation."
Erie County Executive Mark Poloncarz (D, NY): "The ability of Erie County's dairy farmers to access the Canadian market is a true success for the revised trade agreement and the deal should be ratified by Congress, the Canadian Parliament, and the Mexican Congress of the Union."
Laredo Mayor Pete Saenz (D-TX) on behalf of the Texas Border Coalition: "International trade under the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) framework has been absolutely critical to the economic prosperity of the border region, the state of Texas and the entire United States. We support improvements to the NAFTA framework as proposed in the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement (USMCA)."
San Antonio Councilwoman Rebecca Viagran (D-TX): "I am aware of how our local economy has benefitted from the passage of NAFTA, benefits which include the creation of 63,000 jobs between 1994 and 2016. It's critical that Congress ratify the USMCA so our small and mid-businesses can benefit."
Norfolk Mayor Kenny Alexander (D-VA): "The City of Norfolk serves as a global gateway for the import and export of freight in the United States and has a strong partnership with The Port of Virginia. The Port serves as a driving economic engine for the Commonwealth of Virginia and the nation with 374,000 jobs, or 9.4 percent of the state's resident workforce, working in port-related jobs . . . The USMCA will support our continuing growth and provide mutually beneficial trade with our partners, leading to freer markets, fairer trade, and robust economic growth for the City of Norfolk."
  