
    "We call on the regime to abandon its nuclear ambitions, change its destructive behavior, respect the rights of its people, and return in good faith to the negotiating table. -President Donald J. Trump
TARGETING THE IRANIAN REGIME: President Donald J. Trump is imposing new sanctions targeting the Supreme Leader of Iran and the Office of the Supreme Leader of Iran. 

President Trump has signed an Executive Order today imposing sanctions on the Supreme Leader of Iran and the Office of the Supreme Leader of Iran.

Further, the order allows the Secretary of the Treasury to impose sanctions on officials appointed to their position by the Supreme Leader.


These sanctions will deny Iran's leadership access to financial resources, blocking them from using the United States financial system or accessing any assets in the United States.

Anybody who conducts significant transactions with these sanctioned individuals may be exposed to sanctions themselves.


The President is also authorizing the Secretary of the Treasury to impose sanctions on anyone who provides material support to the Supreme Leader's Office.
President Trump's action will target the most nefarious elements of the Iranian regime.

The Supreme Leader funds and oversees the worst elements of the Iranian regime, such as the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC).



SENDING A CLEAR MESSAGE: The United States is sending a clear message to the Iranian regime that it must end its malign behavior. 

These sanctions build on President Trump's efforts to put financial pressure on and raise costs for the Iranian regime.
The President has implemented tough sanctions against Iran and will continue to impose maximum pressure until the regime abandons its malign behavior.

Efforts to impose maximum pressure have included placing sanctions on key sectors of Iran's economy and designating the IRGC as a foreign terrorist organization.


The President has been clear that he is open to the possibility of future talks with Iran, and wants to ensure they are never allowed to gain nuclear weapons.

RESPONDING TO IRAN'S ESCALATIONS: Iran has escalated its aggression towards the United States in recent days. 

Iran has engaged in a series of provocative actions in recent weeks, leading up to the attack on a United States drone operating over international waters.
Iran recently announced that it will be increasing its stockpile of enriched uranium in the coming days.
Iran attacked two commercial vessels and used proxy forces to attack civilian infrastructure in Saudi Arabia.
No amount of economic sanctions entitles the regime to attack innocent civilians, disrupt global commerce, or engage in nuclear blackmail.

  