
    Pool Reports by Courtney Subramanian, USA Today 



Sent:
Reports:




June 7, 202108:54 CST

VPOTUS travel pool report #1 - Checking in
Good morning from Guatemala City, where VP Harris is holding a bilat with President Alejandro Giammatteiand later meeting with community and civil society leaders and entrepreneurs. Here's a look at today's schedule:

9:35am local time (11:35 am ET) – VPOTUS holds bilat with Giammattei at the Palacio Nacional de la Cultura (pool spray at the top)
10:45am local time (12:45pm ET) – VPOTUS and Giammattei take official photo
11:45am local time (1:45pm ET) – VPOTUS andGiammattei hold a press conference
1:45pm local time (3:45pm ET) – VPOTUS will participate in a roundtable with community and civil society leaders at Universidad del Valle de Guatemala (expanded pool spray at the top)
3:25pm local time (5:25pm ET) – VPOTUS will meet women entrepreneurs at Universidad del Valle de Guatemala (expanded pool spray at the top)
7:50pm local time (9:50pm ET) – VPOTUS will depart La Aurora International Airport for Mexico City (travel pool coverage)
11:05pm local time (1:05am ET) – VPOTUS arrives at Benito Juarez International Airport and RON in Mexico City

I will update you with any schedule changes but please feel free to reach out with any questions.


June 7, 202108:59 CST

VPOTUS travel pool report #2 - rolling from hotel
Motorcade left the hotel at 8:52 am for the Palacio Nacional de la Cultura.



June 7, 202109:14 CST

VPOTUS travel pool report #3 - palace arrival
The motorcade arrived at the Palacio Nacional de la Cultura at 9:02 after a 10-minute ride along a tree-lined boulevard. It's 73 degrees and sunny here.
The route was mostly cleared except for security and military. Pool did spot one group along the boulevard in front of a public building that included pro-Trump signs that read: "Kamala, Trump won" and "Kamala, mind your own business!"
The motorcade eventually turned on to a city street lined with storefronts where some masked onlookers ambled along the sidewalks and others watched as we drove by.



June 7, 202109:51 CST

VPOTUS travel pool report #4 - holding for spray
Pool is holding on the second floor of the National Palace, a green-hued stone building erected in the 1940s, before the pool spray at the top of the bilat.
One update: the press conference this afternoon will be live-streamed.
One correction: VPOTUS arrives in Mexico City at 11:05 pm, which is only one hour behind so that is 12:05am ET.



June 7, 2021
[APP Note: Report #5 does not exist or was not received by the APP.]


June 7, 202109:56 CST

VPOTUS travel pool report #6 - more from spray
Apologies, I forgot to include Amb. William Popp's surname in the last report
More from Harris:
"Hope does exist by itself. It must be coupled with relationships and trust, it must be coupled with tangible outcomes in terms of what we do as leaders" to convince people that there is a reason to be hopeful about their future .
The delegations spoke in an ornate room with with balconies and a vaulted ceiling with three flags from each country between then. And a signing table with a registry that foreign dignitaries sign (pool was told POTUS signed it) behind Harris.
At the tables in the room:AT THE TABLE T.H. Kamala Harris, Vice President of the United States of America1. T.H. William Popp, US Ambassador to Guatemala2. T.H. Nancy McEldowney, Assistant to the President and National Security Advisor to the Vice President3. T.H. Ricardo Zúniga, Special Envoy for the Northern Triangle4. T.H. Juan Gonzalez, Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for the Western Hemisphere, National Security Council5. T.H. Michael Fuchs, Special Assistant to the President and Deputy Chief of Staff to the Vice President6. Mr. Mazin Alfaqih, Special Advisor to the Vice President
BACKBENCH CHAIRS1. T.H. Symone Sanders, Deputy Assistant to the President and Senior Advisor and Chief Spokesperson for the Vice President2. T.H. Kate Childs Graham, Special Assistant to the President and Director of Speechwriting3. Mr. Daniel Gage, Embassy Notetaker
GUATEMALAN DELEGATION
AT THE TABLEH.E. Alejandro GIAMMATTEI Falla, President of the Republic of Guatemala1. H.E. Pedro BROLO Vila, Minister of Foreign Affairs2. H.E. Alfonso QUIÑONEZ Lemus, Guatemalan Ambassador to the United States3. H.E. Juan Carlos ALEMÁN, Minister of National Defense4. H.E. Antonio MALOUF, Minister of Economy5. H.E. Gendri REYES Mazariegos, Minister of Government6. H.E. José Ángel LÓPEZ Camposeco, Minister of Agriculture, Livestock, and Food
BACKBENCH CHAIRS1. H.E. Claudia RUIZ CASASOLA, Minister of Education2. H.E. Mario ROJAS ESPINO, Minister of Environment3. Mr. Janio ROSALES, Private Secretary4. Ms. Patricia LETONA, Secretary of Social Communication (Spokesperson)5. Ms. Keila GRAMAJO, Secretary of Planning



June 7, 202109:55 CST

VPOTUS travel pool repot #7 - Fuller quotes from pool spray
Pool is working to get you more quotes. It was very difficult to hear inside the hall. A massive thanks to Noah Bierman for help with the quotes.
Here's more but please check against audio:
"I very much have been looking forward to this trip, we have had many conversations, but it is good to see you in person," she said at the top of remarks.
"Mr. President I am very proud that this is my first foreign trip as vice president," Harris said. "It is a reflection of the priority that President Biden placed on this region."
She said the countries are "interconnected" and share "familial bonds.""It is important that as we embark on a new era that we recognize the significance and importance of this relationship."
She said COVID made clear that the world is interconnected and it's important to work together on addressing root causes of migration and share responsibility around the world. She reminded Giammattei that POTUS is about to take his first foreign trip as a "reflection again of our administration's priority on re-establishing relationships with our allies around the world."
She said she's here to discuss shared priorities and "foremost among those – as you have mentioned – is addressing migration from this region in particular."
She talked about the pride that Guatemalan people have and students who want to continue their education here as well as farmers who are feeding their neighbors and the significance of those activities to the country's economic base.
"I know, as you do, that Guatemala is a country with incredible resources, historically and currently, but there is work that we can do together to grow the capacity for those resources and to reach the people."



June 7, 202110:17 CST

VPOTUS travel pool report #8 - Moving to the presser/additional quotes from spray
Pool is heading to the presser, which will be livestreamed. Your pooler will send any notable color from the room.
"We believe also that, and you and I have discussed this in our first conversation, most people don't want to leave home…the place where they grew up…the place where they pray, the place where their land is (inaudible)."
She said they usually do it for one of two reasons, "either because they're fleeing some harm or because they simply cannot satisfy their basic needs by staying at home."
"Hope does not exist by itself. It must be coupled with relationships of trust, it must be coupled with tangible outcomes in terms of what we do as leaders to convince people that there is a reason to be hopeful about their future."
Note on earlier report on registry placed behind Harris in the bilat: It is referred to as the "libre de oro."



June 7, 202110:24 CST

VPOTUS travel pool report #9 - Press conference color
The press conference is taking place inside the patio de la paz (the patio of peace), one of the two most important ceremonial rooms for functions of the state (the other is the hall of flags where Harris earlier met Giammattei for the bilat).
Members of press are seated before a large stage lined with blue and white flowers and two podiums with small tables covered with navy and white tablecloths beside them. Placed behind them are the Guatemalan and American flags.
Above the stage is a balcony where VPOTUS and Giammattei will perform a ceremonial wave before the press conference. The balcony is flanked with flags from both countries and is also adorned with blue and white flowers (I've tweeted a photo).
The palace is located on the Plaza de la Constitucion, which was built in 1776.



June 7, 202111:13 CST

VPOTUS travel pool report #10- Ceremonial wave
VPOTUS and Giammattei stepped up to the balcony for a ceremonial wave at 11:05 am local time. The pair were introduced over a loudspeaker in Spanish, waved and continued walking down the long, arched hallway on the second floor.
The press conference is due to begin at 11:35am. A reminder this press conference is livestreamed so your pooler will send color from the room.
https://youtu.be/xJcH_eD7YoQ
A huge thanks to Tuck Evans, PIO at the US embassy here in Guatemala, for providing all the historical detail at the palace here today.



June 7, 202112:05 CST

VPOTUS travel pool report #11 - Press conference begins
VPOTUS and Giammattei took the stage at 11:44 amlocal time.
The event is being livestreamed here: https://www.whitehouse.gov/live/
Members of each delegation and the vice president's staff were seated in two rows in front of members of press (Amb. William Popp, Nancy McEldowney, Ricardo Zuniga, Juan Gonzales and Michael Fuchs, deputy chief of staff, were seated in the front row on the VP's side).
Before the press conference began, aides added two more American and Guatemalan flags behind the two podiums (four total). I should also note the Patio de La Paz is an atrium with a tented ceiling (an embassy official told pool this is permanent and because of the rain. We're in the middle of the rainy season here).
Also flagging the WH sent out VPOTUS' opening remarks from the bilateral meeting.



June 7, 202112:32 CST

VPOTUS travel pool report #12 - press conference ends
Press conference ended at 12:23 pm for a total of 39 minutes.
Giammattei spoke first before VPOTUS spoke for a total of 10 minutes, highlighting what was discussed at the meeting:
She confirmed she told Giammattei the US is sending an initial 500,000 excess vaccines to Guatmala.
VPOTUS also announced a joint task force on smuggling and human trafficking and a women's empowerment program to increase economic opportunities and an anti-corruption task force to help local Central American law enforcement prosecute cases.
She also had a message to those considering irregular migration: "Do not come. Do not come. The United States will continue to enforce our laws and secure our borders... If you come to our border, you will be turned back."
On a question of response to GOP criticism that neither she or POTUS have gone to the US southern border, VP said she made her first foreign trip to the region to meet with leaders to speak about what they can do to resolve irregular migration in a "way that is significant and has real results."
"I will continue to focus on that kind of work as opposed to grand gestures."
Giammattei ignored a question from the US pool about whether he could be a reliable partner in the region for anti-corruption. When asked a second time, he blamed social media misinformation and denied charges that his government has meddled.
"How many cases of corruption have I been accused of? I can give you the answer: Zero."
Giammattei also said at the top he would take the Vice President's word that she will come back and they will travel together to the areas that need help.
Part of the way through the rain began to pour down and pool could hear it hit the tarp above.



June 7, 202113:46 CST

VPOTUS travel pool report #13 - Universidad arrival
Pool left the National Palace at 12:28 local time for about a 10-minute ride to the Universidad del Valle de Guatemala. Pool pulled up to the red brick building emblazoned with large green letters on the side that read UGV.
Pool was ushered inside to what appears to be a cafeteria, where we're holding before the next event.



June 7, 202113:48 CST

VPOTUS travel pool #14 - holding for roundtable pool spray
Pool was ushered across a large patio but was fortunately protected from the downpour. We're now holding for the VP's next event with civil society and community leaders.
From WH official:
Last night, the Vice President held a virtual Embassy meet and greet with Embassy personnel at the U.S. Embassy in Guatemala.



June 7, 202113:49 CST

VPOTUS travel pool report #15 - Roundtable pool spray
Pool entered a room where 18 participants are seated, socially distanced, facing two desks, where the VP and Amb. William Popp are expected to sit (one fixed with what appears to be the vice presidential seal). Some are dressed in indigenous clothing and others in suits and business wear.
The wall behind the desks are draped in textiles. Some wooden sculptures and dolls are displayed prominently as well.
Pool is awaiting VPOTUS.



June 7, 202114:16 CST

VPOTUS travel pool report #16 - More from roundtable spray
One correction: the seal on the VP's desk is the diplomatic seal.
VPOTUS entered with Amb. Popp at 1:57 pm local time. The two took a seat behind the two desks.
VP said the last conversation she had with these participants through zoom was "very helpful to me."
Said she is looking forward to having "a candid conversation so that you can share with me your experiences, your perspective. So then, I have a perspective on the needs of the challenges and their desires and hopes of the people" of Guatemala.
The VP mentioned the 500,000 vaccines, noting it would not cure the issue but would "make a dent." She said she expects more to come on top of the $26 million that US contributed for assistance with the associated issues of the pandemic (refrigerators, the apparatus and the technology that are needed to actually address the virus.)
VP Harris also mentioned the creation of the the young women's empowerment initiative she announced earlier at a press conference with Giammattei. The US is investing up to $40 million to increase the education and economic opportunities available to Indigenous women and children, and girls in particular, and also will make available $48 million for agricultural business and affordable housing and supporting entrepreneurs, she said.
Participants:

Rigoberta Menchu, Indigenous Women Platform
Eduardo Stein, Association for Research and Social Studies
Daniel Villatoro, Executive Director of Visibles
Ingrid Gamboa, Association of Garifuna Women Living with HIV/AIDS
Otilia Lux de Cotti, Indigenous Women Platform
Pedro Lamport, Mars Distribution
Alvaro Montenegro Muralles, Justice Now
Carmen Rosa de Leon Escribano, Institute of Education for Sustainable Development
Elvyn Leonel Diaz, Lawyer and Human Rights Activist
Claudia Samayoa, Human Rights Defenders Protection Unit
Manfredo Marroquin, Citizen Action
Daphne Posadas, Foundation for Liberty and Development
Jose Echeverria, National Civil Movement
Carlos Mendoza, Violence Observatory
Salvador Biguria, Vice President, Corporate Social Responsibility Think Tank FUNDESA (Salvador)
Helen Beatriz Mack Chans, Human Rights Activist, Founder of the Myrna Mack Foundation
Father Marco Tulio Martinez, Jesuit Rafael Landivar University
Aura Leticia Teleguario Sincal, Indigenous Women




June 7, 202115:01 CST

VPOTUS travel pool report #17 - Roundtable spray ended
The spray ended at 2:07pm local time (4:07pm ET). Pool returned to the cafeteria and the event is ongoing.
More from VPOTUS' comments: VPOTUS spoke of the "impact that the lack of judicial independence can have on civil society, especially with regard to the highest courts in the land."
She said she likes to visit the highest court whenever she goes to a new country and was able to see Guatemala's during the visit.
"There's something about seeing a country's highest court, that gives you a sense of the significance of the rule of law," she said.
She said the "United States will continue to raise concerns then about the threats to the independence of the judiciary, of the press, and civil society in Guatemala and neighboring nations around the world," she said. "In fact, President Biden, just last week issued a statement that was very unambiguous about our country's intention to prioritize us and our relationships with any of our friends around the globe."
"I have asked you what will bring the people of Guatemala hope - that has been part of the conversation. I'm going to ask of you again today. I'm going to asks of you to share with me how we can address barriers that stand in the way of allowing people to have a future that they dream for their children and themselves. I'm going to ask you to help me to craft an approach that addresses those barriers and speaks truly to the needs and the desires of the people… Because if this has any meaning, it will be based on how it impacts people, how it impacts families, how it impacts children."
VPOTUS said many of those there have been "doing this work your entire lives at personal sacrifice." She thanked them "for your leadership, for your courage, and for being here today so we can have this conversation."
Upon return to the holding area, pool spotted Lester Holt and NBC Nightly News crew setting up for the VPOTUS' interview.



June 7, 202115:54 CST

VPOTUS travel pool report #18 - young female engineers event
Pool was taken into a modern building and passed some science and engineering labs. The building was designed in collaboration with MIT.
For the first part of the second event this afternoon, VPOTUS is touring a lab where three young female engineers are displaying their projects and talking about their experiences as part of a joint engineering program with MIT.
Participants:• Ambassador William Popp• Mayarí Pérez (tour guide / instructor)• Mayra Talita Guit Par• Maricarmen Eugenia González Fernández• Luisa Karina Bal Chex
Pool is awaiting the VP.
The VP will then meet with women entrepreneurs who have microbusinesses - a mixture of people from high-out migration areas. Many of whom have indigenous roots and speak a Mayan language and also Spanish.
On background from a WH official: "Cookies that were provided to passengers on Air Force Two on Sunday were a gift from a member of the staff. The vice president wanted to make sure the cookies were shared with everyone."



June 7, 202116:13 CST

VPOTUS travel pool report #19 - More from young female engineer tour
The VP entered the room at 3:38pm and the first student began explaining her project in Spanish. A translator said the student said her project, which is a handheld robot that distinguishes colors and shadows, was inspired by female engineers.
The VP held it in her hand and asked her to explain how the sensors work.
"This is so impressive," Harris said emphatically, asking what her vision is for its application.
The student said her aim is to do this at scale, according to the translator.
VPOTUS moved on to the second table where a biomedical engineer student explained her department's project, which was created due to a lack of ventilators during the pandemic.
"Unfortunately no women are involved in this project, and as a woman, I feel that it is my duty to later build these types of projects because this is geared towards my career," she told the VP according to a translator.
Pool was ushered out to the next location as the third student stood behind a third table displaying her project and began speaking in Spanish.
Some other color:
The three students featured in the first pool spray, per a US embassy official : One is 24 and from San Juan Comalapa, Chimaltenango, one is 19 and from Sololá, Sololá and the third is 19 and from Amatitlán, Guatemala
Mayari, the instructor, is a 28-year-old industrial mechanical engineer from UVG from Guatemala City.



June 7, 202116:39 CST

VPOTUS travel pool report #20 - women entrepreneurs event
Pool was escorted into another room where six women in indigenous dress are seated at a U-shape arrangement of tables. Narrow colorful textiles hung behind the women on the left side of the room and a large textile draped the backdrop behind where the VP and Amb. Willam Popp. The larger textile was flanked by a US flag on the left and a Guatemalan flag on the right. Marimba, the National music of Guatemala, was playing in the background.
The VP and the ambassador entered at 3:55pm location time and took their seats. The ambassador introduced the Vice President, who then spoke about the tour she just took.
"they were showing their creations and the strength and the beauty of their work is these young leaders. And what we all know is possible, which is they have the ability to see what can be unburdened by what has been," she said.
VP and Amb. William Popp are visiting with six female entrepreneurs who make a range of products including artisanal chocolate, specialized desserts (pastries, etc.), traditional textiles and blouses/bags and coffee. One participant is a farmer who farms Amaranth seeds.
The three girls who VP Harris spoke with prior to this event joined the event.
The VP reiterated the women's empowerment initiative announced earlier."So we're here today so that I can speak when each of us can hear your story as a way to help us design this initiative that we have invested in," she said.
The ambassador asked for a volunteer to begin sharing their experience. As everyone looked around the room at one another, the VP remarked, "I like chocolate!" - suggesting that one of the participants who makes chocolate could kick things off.
The woman, named Yuri, said she makes candies and drinkable chocolate and employs five families - which was a source of support during the pandemic. She said she took an online course through USAID.
She said her request to the Vice President is that this support would be extended to more women.
The VP asked if the capital helped. Yuri said she was able to use the seed money to buy machinery to seed and mill the chocolate.
Another woman named Martha began speaking about growing coffee and cardamom and making chocolate.
She said the young person's cooperative is "agents of change in our communities" to give opportunity and discourage migration.
The VP took notes throughout these remarks and continued to ask questions.
She asked if the cooperative provided technical assistance. Martha said they took marketing courses for online sales that helped make the products more accessible.
In the cooperative, we are the farmers, Martha said. Some are focused on growing, others on marketing and some on project management. She said the cooperative has 150 active members from the Mayan indigenous communities.
VP asked the women, what are the barriers for women in entering this kind of work and how could the US help?
One woman who grows amaranth said technical support.
Pool left the event at 4:14 pm local time as the event was ongoing.



June 7, 202120:06 CST

VPOTUS travel pool report #21 - Rolling for airport
After holding for a little more than three hours, pool loaded into the Press vans and we're headed to the airport, which is about a 10-minute ride. Pool did not lay eyes on VPOTUS after the long hold, during which she filmed an interview with NBC's Lester Holt.
Motorcade is rolling at 7:36pm local time.
Next up: flight to Mexico City.



June 7, 202120:09 CST

VPOTUS travel pool #22 - VP gaggles with press
The VP gaggled under the wing for nearly 4 minutes.
She answered questions about her activities in Guatemala, her forthcoming conversation with AMLO and why she emphasized for would-be migrants to turn back from the border.
The VP said she achieved their goal of having "direct" conversations with Giammattei. The VP boarded AF2 at 7:59pm.
Here's a link to the audio - pool will not be able to transcribe the comments as we're about to take off. Please rely on this audio:
https://otter.ai/u/lOC9-BP5DB0Bs-IU4F2cD4ntikY
Pool arrived at the La Aurora International Airport at 7:50 pm local time after a rainy but quiet ride.
A crowd of mostly masked people were spotted along the route just outside the airport.
Before the VP spoke to pool, she posed with Members of the advance team and embassy staff who organized the trip for departure photos in front of the plane.



June 7, 202120:14 CST

VPOTUS travel pool report #23 - more quotes from gaggle/ wheels up
VPOTUS said corruption "probably of any subjects that I had discussed today with, with all of the groups that is the number one issue aside from vaccines, and the pandemic."
"And that's why we're here to address those issues to hear from the people on the ground, and then to order our priorities in a way that reflects what capacity we have to actually affect the root causes the acute causes so that people have hope about staying in their own country."
Said she plans to emphasize the US' "longstanding partnership" with Mexico in tomorrow's meeting with AMLO.
We are wheels up for Mexico City at 8:11pm local time (for a flight of a little over two hours).



June 7, 202123:16 CDT

VPOTUS travel pool report #24 - Arrival/briefing notes
AF2 touched down in Mexico City at 11:06pm local time.
Symone Sanders briefed reporters with Special Envoy Ricardo Zuniga for about 10 minutes during the flight to Mexico City.
Sanders said Harris' meeting with López Obrador will follow up on their virtual meeting in May , when the two sought to "expand cooperation between the United States and Mexico to address the root causes of flight from Guatemala, Honduras and El Salvador."
She said Harris will work to "build on that progress from that first conversation," which includes:

the two countries jointly agreeing to secure their borders and bolster human rights protections
Spur economic development in the Northern Triangle countries and in southern Mexico
Agreeing to protect the rights of workers to organize or join a union and expand opportunities for US business collaborations
Agreed to develop a package of measures that include trade and business development missions facilitated by the Commerce Dept., the US trade and development agency and investments through the US international Development finance corporation
Agreeing to combat migrant smuggling and human trafficking

They will also speak about migration specifically to the US-Mexico border, both by stepping up enforcement and partnering to address root causes
Harris and AMLO will also witness the signing of an memorandum of understanding between the two countries that will entail cooperation between development agencies that work in Central America and examine how they plan to allocate aid. Sanders emphasized they Harris and López Obrador will not sign the agreements themselves
Harris will later participate in a conversation with women entrepreneurs and a labor roundtable. She'll also meet with embassy staff.
Sanders also praised Mexico for what she described as historic labor reforms, which ensure the right to organize a labor union and collectively bargain, eliminate discrimination on the job, establish standards for wages, hours, health and safety and abolish child labor. She said the US will reiterate its support for those protections.
Zuniga said the memorandum is really about "the ways we're going to cooperate between our respective development agencies in Central America" with a "real focus on youth and reforestation." He said the main focus is to show how the US and Mexico are trying to improve conditions on the ground in neighbouring countries because of their impotence to both the US and Mexico.
"We are both destination countries for migration from Central America and we both have some of the same issues trying to ensure that we have legal paths for migration and particularly Labor."
Zuniga was asked whether Sunday's elections would change their strategy: "It really doesn't impact our plans" because the relationship doesn't not depend on who is in power or domestic politics.



June 7, 202123:49 CDT

VPOTUS travel pool report #25 - Airport departure for hotel
VP Harris deplaned at 11:31 pm local time and exchanged greetings with those listed below. The VP stood facing the group and spoke to them for a few minutes before she was escorted into a limo by an aide at 11:34 pm local time. She did not stop to talk to press.
Greeters at the airport:• Ms. Susana Iruegas, Director General of Protocol of Mexico• His Excellency Marcelo Ebrard Casaubon, Secretary of Foreign Affairs of Mexico• His Excellency Esteban Moctezuma Barragán, Ambassador of Mexico to the United States• The Honorable John S. Creamer, Chargé d'Affaires a.i., U.S. Embassy Mexico City• Mr. Roberto Velasco Alvarez, Acting Undersecretary and Director General for North America
Motorcade is rolling at 11:36 pm local time for a 20-30-minute ride to the hotel. We drove past risers holding tv cameras and members of local media.
Here's the link to audio from the briefing: https://otter.ai/u/Y7zDWsMq_omMCqfrdGKL30Kvbb8



June 7, 2021
[APP Note: Report #26 does not exist or was not received by the APP.]


June 8, 202102:04 CDT

VPOTUS travel pool report #27 - Statement from Symone Sanders
Statement from Symone Sanders, Senior Advisor and Chief Spokesperson to the Vice President:
"The President and Vice President have been clear in dissuading people from making the dangerous and treacherous journey to the U.S./Mexico border. We encourage those who do want to come to the U.S. to do so legally and seek legal immigration options in their home countries. The Vice President is committed to addressing the root causes of migration, which also addresses why migrants are coming to our border."
Background
During the transition, before we took office, Ambassador Susan Rice and National Security Advisory Jake Sullivan reiterated in a joint interview, now is not the time to come to the U.S.
On March 16, Preside Biden said, "I can say quite clearly don't come don't leave your town and community."
Secretary Mayorkas has also reiterated the message to pursue legal immigration channels.
We encourage those who want to come to the U.S. to do so through legal means.




  