
    America loves Poland, and America loves the Polish people. --President Donald J. Trump
EXPANDING OUR PARTNERSHIP: President Donald J. Trump is working to further strengthen the longstanding partnership between the United States and Poland.

Today, President Trump welcomes President Duda of Poland back to the White House.

This visit comes at a critical time, as both the United Sates and Poland are opening our economies after months of battling the coronavirus.


The United States and Poland share a longstanding strategic relationship firmly rooted in shared values of freedom, the rule of law, and democracy, dating back to the American Revolution.
President Trump is ensuring that the United States and Poland continue to expand our cooperation across a wide range of issues.
During the visit, President Trump and President Duda will discuss defense, trade, energy, and telecommunications security.

DEEPENING OUR DEFENSE COOPERATION: President Trump remains committed to building on our Nation's already robust defense partnership with Poland.

Poland has been a stalwart NATO Ally and is a leader within NATO in meeting commitments to contribute 2 percent of GDP to defense, with plans to contribute even more.

Through a multi-billion dollar defense modernization program, utilizing American military equipment, Poland is further strengthening NATO's capabilities.


Poland facilitates critical military training for the United States and our allies and has shown exceptional hospitality and support for American troops deployed in its country.
President Trump and President Duda have signed two joint declarations to strengthen our military-to-military and security ties.

The Trump Administration is currently working to secure a Defense Cooperation Agreement that will further increase our militaries cooperation.


Last year, Poland entered the Visa Waiver Program, marking a historic advancement in the relationship between the United States and Poland.

ADVANCING OUR ECONOMIC TIES: The Trump Administration is working with Poland to improve our economies, protect critical infrastructure, and achieve energy security.

Our two nations enjoy strong economic ties, with a growing trade partnership and American investment in Poland at a record high.
Poland and the United States share a priority of securing telecommunications and the privacy of our personal data.

Last year, the United States and Poland signed a joint declaration on 5G to lay the groundwork for 5G security, and the United States applauds Poland for using only trusted providers and technology in its 5G build-out.




The United States and Poland have facilitated several long-term contracts for American liquefied natural gas, helping Poland achieve energy security through diversification.
Poland stands with the United States in the pursuit of peaceful uses of nuclear energy.

The United States and Poland are in the process of reaching a bilateral civil nuclear agreement that will enable Poland to decisively move ahead in building large-scale nuclear plants with American technology.



  