
    
  Bloomberg: "Graham, Who's Running A National Security-Centric Campaign, Took Time To Merge Policy and Recreation"
  (Kendall Breitman, "Lindsey Graham Takes Shots With Republican Donors," Bloomberg, 06/13/15)

Over the weekend, Senator Lindsey Graham attended Mitt Romney's annual E2 Summit in Park City, Utah where he met with attendees and hosted a trap shooting competition on Saturday morning. In case you missed it, check out a video of the Senator teaching MSNBC's, Kasie Hunt, how to trap shoot here and take a look at some of the stories from the weekend:

"'Don't shoot yourself in the foot, it's the first goal of shooting skeet and the first goal of politics,' Senator Lindsey Graham joked with reporters at the Lions Club shooting range in Park City, Utah... Donning khakis, an olive green sweatshirt, a black baseball cap and worn-in white sneakers, Graham — an avid hunter — had the chance to show off his well-known Southern charm...toward some." (Kendall Breitman, "Lindsey Graham Takes Shots With Republican Donors," Bloomberg, 06/13/15)
The Washington Post: "Later, Romney Thanked Graham For Sharing His 'Wisdom.'"
"Graham was perhaps the most pointed, saying Clinton was eminently beatable — 'She's carrying more bags than any politician should' — but insisting that Republicans would have to soften their tone on immigration to break out of their 'demographic death spiral.'... Later, Romney thanked Graham for sharing his 'wisdom.' His wife, Ann, told reporters: 'He's right. We've got to put a mirror up and see what's going on.'" (Philip Bump & Robert Costa, "Republican Elite Convene At Romney Summit Search Of A Clinton," The Washington Post, 06/12/15)
The Washington Post: "[Graham] Wisecracks On The Cattle-Call Circuit And Texts Punchy One-Liners" "He wisecracks on the cattle-call circuit and texts punchy one-liners to GOP moneymen from his old-school flip phone. His impish campaign-trail humor leaves almost everyone in stitches. 'Isn't Lindsey hilarious?' Ann Romney gushed the other day." (Robert Costa & Philip Rucker, "Lindsey Graham Campaigns With A Smile, One Wisecrack At A Time," The Washington Post, 06/13/15)
Bloomberg: "Graham, Who's Running A National Security-Centric Campaign, Took Time To Merge Policy and Recreation" "Graham, who's running a national security-centric campaign, took time to merge policy and recreation. He chatted with reporters about his ideas for gun policy and held rifles with a group of fellow skeet 'enthusiasts,' saying 'we'll send this to the terrorists.'" (Kendall Breitman, "Lindsey Graham Takes Shots With Republican Donors," Bloomberg, 06/13/15)
CNN: "Graham said, 'There's Not Enough Money In The World To Get You Elected President Unless You Can Connect With Voters.'" "With no king — or apparent kingmaker — some of the lower tier candidates said were enjoying the extended courtship, and encouraging donors to take their time. Graham, for example, told some of them to expect surprises as they watched for traction the early states. 'At the end of the day,' Graham said, 'there's not enough money in the world to get you elected president unless you can connect with voters.'" (Sara Murray & Maeve Reston, "GOP Candidates Scramble For Cash At Romney's Donor Retreat," CNN, 06/13/15)
Bloomberg: "[Graham's] Southern Charm Seems To Be Paying Off"
"For Graham, the opportunity for schmoozing and showing off his Southern charm seems to be paying off. According to the senator, the weekend in Utah helped him 'pick up some investors.'" (Kendall Breitman, "Lindsey Graham Takes Shots With Republican Donors," Bloomberg, 06/13/15)
Graham: "We Tried Tall, Good Lookin', Smart, Nice, Great Family" "'We tried tall, good lookin', smart, nice, great family,' Graham told donors Friday in a playful nod to Romney. 'Vote for me. We're not going down that road again!'" (Philip Bump & Robert Costa, "Republican Elite Convene At Romney Summit Search Of A Clinton," The Washington Post, 06/12/15)
  