
    Pool Reports by Debra Saunders, Las Vegas Review-Journal



Sent:
Reports:




June 11, 202010:12

In Town Pool Report #1 
Good morning,
I am your print pooler today.
The only expected contact with the president would be at 12:25 in the South Lawn as POTUS heads to Dallas. Weather is gnarly, so there could be a motorcade departure instead.
Peter Navarro would not answer questions after his appearances on Fox Business Network and Yahoo Finance.
The Press Secretary sent out a statement on sanctions against the International Criminal Court. White House sent out a text of letter and executive order on the subject.



June 11, 202012:50

In Town Pool Report #2 
No my pool report is not late.
Pool is standing outside and pretty drenched waiting for departure
Documentary tweets tell the story



June 11, 202012:58

In Town Pool Report #3 
POTUS walked out of Oval at 12:54. Red tie, Nlue suit.
He had an umbrella and did not respond to questions other than to wave.



June 11, 202013:08

In Town Pool Report #4 
Marine One was wheels up at 1:01.
I am told Johnny McEntee boarded Marine One as well. Kayleigh McEnany and Hogan Gidley already waiting at JBA.
Turning over to Out of Town Pool.




 
Pool Reports below by Catherine Lucey, The Wall Street Journal



Sent:
Reports:




June 11, 202013:19

Out of Town Pool Report #1 - Andrews 
Good afternoon from Joint Base Andrews. Marine One was wheels down at 1:10 PM. President Trump exited wearing a navy suit and a red tie, carrying an umbrella. He gave a thumbs up sign to the pool but did not stop to talk. He waved from the top of the stairs at 1:15 PM and boarded the plane
Also boarding AF1 were Jared Kushner, Dan Scavino and Johnny McEntee. Surgeon General Jerome Adams was seen earlier at JBA and is on the trip.
We are headed to Dallas where the president is scheduled to have a roundtable on "Transition to Greatness: Restoring, Rebuilding, and Renewing," per the White House. That will be followed by a fundraiser.
The roundtable will be streamed on White House Live. The fundraiser is closed press.
An RNC official says the Dallas fundraising event will have approximately 25 attendees and will raise "$10M for Trump Victory, a joint fundraising committee benefiting the Trump campaign, RNC, and 22 state parties."
We should be wheels up shortly for Dallas.



June 11, 202016:16

Out of Town Pool Report #2 - Dallas Arrival 
Air Force One touched down at Dallas Love Field Airport at 2:49 Central Time after an uneventful flight.
The president did not visit the press cabin. Televisions were tuned to Fox News throughout the flight.
President Trump exited the plane under blazing sun at 3:09 CT. He was followed by Attorney General Bill Barr, HUD Secretary Ben Carson and Surgeon General Jerome Adams.
The president paused to speak with Texas officials. He did not stop to speak with the press. The White House says he is being met by:
Governor Greg Abbott, Governor of TexasLieutenant Governor Dan Patrick, Lieutenant Governor of TexasAttorney General Ken Paxton, Attorney General of TexasTommy Tuberville, Candidate for United States Senate from AlabamaRonny Jackson, Candidate for United States Representative for Texas's 13thCongressional District
Jackson entered AF1 before the president came out and then exited in the group behind the president.
The motorcade is now rolling for next stop.
Up next is the roundtable at Gateway Church Dallas Campus. Again this will be steamed on WH live but pool will send additional color and details.
After the roundtable is a private fundraiser. The Trump campaign says the president is expected to raise over $10 million for his campaign and the Republican Party at the event. The campaign also passes on the following comment:
"As the country continues to reopen, we are thrilled that President Trump is going back out on the road to engage with the tremendous supporters he has across the country, both at rallies and fundraisers." - Kimberly Guilfoyle National Chair Trump Victory Finance Committee



June 11, 202016:43

Out of Town Pool Report #3 - Roundtable 
The presidential motorcade arrived at Gateway Church Dallas Campus at 3:30 CT.
Near the church was a large group of Trump protesters with signs reading "Dump dumb Trump," "F—- Trump" and "F—- your orange Cheeto looking ass." There was also a group of Trump supporters with signs that said "Women for Trump" and "Trump 2020."
The roundtable is being held in large auditorium filled with people, most of whom are not wearing masks. Billy Joel's "Piano Man" is playing over the sound system.
The president will be sitting on a stage at a long semi-circular table behind a presidential seal and against a backdrop dotted with American flags and printed with the words "Transition to Greatness." There is also a large American Flag and screens that say "Transition to Greatness."
The atmosphere is excited, with most of the crowd Standing as they wait for the president. Officials, who are also mostly not wearing masks, are entering and taking their seats — Attorney General Bill Barr got a big round of applause.
Trump entered at 3:43 CT to huge applause to "God Bless the USA."
Website to stream roundtable:
https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44f...



June 11, 202017:11

Out of Town Pool Report #3b 
>From the White House on the event
Today, President Donald J. Trump will participate in a roundtable with faith leaders, law enforcement officials, and small business owners at Gateway Church in Dallas, Texas.
Since taking office, President Trump has remained steadfastly committed to uplifting all Americans by fighting for a strong economy, reforming the criminal justice system, increasing school choice, expanding Opportunity Zones, and revitalizing Project Safe Neighborhood. Due to these efforts and the unwavering support from law enforcement departments around the country, violent crime and murder rates in America have fallen in the last two years and minority unemployment rates hit a record low.
President Trump deeply believes in the resilience and strength of the United States, and he wants every American to be part of the great American Comeback.
The following individuals are expected to attend:
The White HousePresident Donald J. TrumpBrooke Rollins, Assistant to the President for Strategic InitiativesJa'Ron Smith, Deputy Assistant to the President and Deputy Director of the Office of American InnovationScott Turner, Executive Director of the White House Opportunity and Revitalization Council
Trump AdministrationAttorney General William Barr, Department of JusticeSecretary Ben Carson, Department of Housing and Urban DevelopmentVADM Jerome Adams, Surgeon General of the United States
External ParticipantsAttorney General Ken Paxton, TexasVernell Dooley, Chief of Police, Glenn Heights, TexasMichael Mata, President, Dallas Police AssociationFred Frazier, 1st Vice President, Dallas Police Association and Commissioner on the President's Commission on Law Enforcement and the Administration of JusticeJaime Castro, 3rd Vice President, Dallas Police AssociationManny Ramirez, President, Fort Worth Police Officers AssociationPastor Robert Morris, Senior Pastor, Gateway Church Bishop Harry Jackson, Senior Pastor at Hope Christian Church, Beltsville, MarylandDr. Robin Armstrong, Physician and Advisory Board MemberJack Brewer, Chief Executive Officer of the Brewer GroupJon Ponder, Founder of Hope for PrisonersWill Douglas, Owner, Crimson Care Pharmacy Group



June 11, 202017:12

Out of Town Pool Report #4 
The president's roundtable wrapped up at 5:07 PM CT. "You Can't Always Get What You Want" played as he waved and exited the room.
It was carried live, but a few notes. The capacity of the room is 1830, per a sign outside, and it is close to full.
President Trump opened the event. He called for more resources for police training, saying he was finalizing an executive order on police standards. He said the nation must work together to "confront hate and bigotry." He also repeatedly stressed the importance of police, saying that most officers do a good job and saying "you always have a bad apple no matter where you go."
Attorney General Bill Barr said the DOJ was committed to working on these issues and said that the "real danger to our communities comes from violent crime and lawlessness more than it does from the police."
Surgeon General Jerome Adams, who drew a huge round of applause and was the only person on stage wearing a mask, directly extended his condolences to Floyd's family. He also spoke about the administration's work on Covid 19, advising attendees to continue practising social distancing and wearing masks.
The crowd gave a big round of applause when HUD secretary Ben Carson said to Trump: "I don't know if anybody could stand up to all the criticisms you have." He also drew a standing ovation at the end of his remarks, which touched on his mother and his upbringing, concluding that he was confident that "we the people will recognize, despite all forces to the contrary, that we are not each others' enemies."
Dr. Robin Armstrong spoke positively about the use of hydroxychloroquine to treat the illness, drawing applause from the audience.Pool is holding at the venue for now.



June 11, 202017:57

Out of town pool report #5 - Rolling 
The motorcade left the church at 5:51 PM CT. The president's next event is a private fundraiser, which will be closed press.
Including this from earlier report about the fundraiser, in case anyone missed it:
The Trump campaign says the president is expected to raise over $10 million for his campaign and the Republican Party at the event. The campaign also passes on the following comment:
"As the country continues to reopen, we are thrilled that President Trump is going back out on the road to engage with the tremendous supporters he has across the country, both at rallies and fundraisers." - Kimberly Guilfoyle National Chair Trump Victory Finance Committee



June 11, 202018:20

Out of Town Pool Report #6 - Fundraiser 
Just after 6 PM CT, the president's motorcade pulled into a leafy neighborhood of palatial gated houses on sprawling grounds. Some neighbors were out with phones to watch the motorcade. Per Google Maps this appears to be the Preston Hollow area or nearby.
At 6:08 PM the president's car pulled into a driveway. Pool vans peeled off. We drove past a small cluster of people with Biden signs and one with a sign that said Bunker Bitch.
At 6:20 PM, pool is now holding at a nearby church.



June 11, 202019:25

Pool report #7 - rolling 
At 7:24 PM CT, the president's motorcade exited the fundraiser. We are now en route back to Dallas Love Field Airport.



June 11, 202020:41

Out of Town Pool Report #8 - Back at Airport 
The president's motorcade arrived at Dallas Love Field Airport at 7:33 PM CT.
Trump boarded Air Force One at 7:37 PM and waved before going inside. Pool was too far away to call out questions.
We will be wheels up for New Jersey shortly.



June 11, 202023:30

Out of Town Pool Report #9 - Newark 
Air Force One was wheels down at Newark International Airport at 11:10 PM ET.
It was an uneventful flight. The president did not visit the press cabin. Hogan Gidley came back briefly off the record.
President Trump exited AF1 at 11:23 PM. He pumped his fist and boarded Marine One. Pool loaded an Osprey at 11:28 PM. We should be on move soon.



June 12, 202000:00

Out of Town Pool Report #10 - Lid 
The White House says President Trump landed at the Bedminster Landing Zone at 11:51 PM.
We have a travel/photo lid.
Big thanks to co pooler Zach Montague for his help today. Good night all.




  