
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

On July 4, 1776, with a firm reliance on the protection of Divine Providence, our Nation's Founders boldly declared America's Independence and affirmed the truth "that all men are created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable Rights, that among these are Life, Liberty and the pursuit of Happiness." They did so knowing that they risked nothing less than their lives, their fortunes, and their sacred honor. On this occasion, we celebrate that profound act of faith and courage and give thanks for the rich legacy of freedom that this country has enjoyed ever since.
That legacy has enabled us to enjoy unparalleled levels of security and prosperity, and it has inspired millions of people around the world in their own struggles for liberty and self-government. Thus, every picnic and parade, every backyard barbecue and public display of fireworks that makes the Fourth of July a favorite summer holiday carries deeper symbolism and meaning. Each resonates with the singular joy of a free people.
This year we are particularly grateful for the blessings of liberty because we have been reminded of the price that many brave and selfless individuals have been willing to pay to secure them. Just months ago, when forces led by a brutal tyrant invaded a small, defenseless country -- raping, pillaging, and threatening not only the stability of an entire region but also vital interests of all freedom-loving peoples -- thousands of courageous Americans answered the call of duty. Our celebration of Independence Day, 1991, is dedicated in a special way to them -- to the regulars, reservists, National Guardsmen, and members of the United States Merchant Marine who helped to liberate Kuwait.
Of course, as we honor our Persian Gulf veterans, we also remember in prayer each of their comrades who made the ultimate sacrifice in service to our country. We salute with great pride and gratitude the military personnel who offered vital support for our mission from bases here at home and around the world, and we pay due tribute to all those who have served in the United States Armed Forces.
The Americans who fought tyranny and lawlessness in the Persian Gulf have upheld, once again, the principles that were first affirmed on these shores 215 years ago when our Nation's Founders elected "between submission or the sword." On this Independence Day -- a day marked by triumphant homecomings and by the promise of a safer, more peaceful world -- it is fitting that we recall the words that Thomas Jefferson wrote shortly before his death on July 4, 1826: All eyes are opened, or opening, to the rights of man . . . These are grounds of hope for others. For ourselves, let the annual return of this day forever refresh our recollections of these rights, and an undiminished devotion to them.
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush, President of the United States of America, do hereby ask all Americans to join in celebrating this 215th anniversary of our Nation's Independence with appropriate ceremonies and activities.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this eleventh day of June, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-one, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundered and fifteenth.

GEORGE BUSH
  