
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

On Sunday, July 1, this year's winner of the Federal Duck Stamp Contest will be honored at a special event unveiling the 1990 Duck Stamp. The stamp, issued by the United States Fish and Wildlife Service, will go on sale at post offices nationwide on July 2.
The Federal Duck Stamp Program is unique in that it represents the only art competition sponsored by the Federal Government. Every year, hundreds of talented artists across the country compete to have their work featured on the Duck Stamp. More important, however, is the Program's role in supporting wetlands conservation.
During the 55 years since the Federal Duck Stamp Program was established, more than $350 million in Duck Stamp receipts have been applied to waterfowl habitat conservation programs. These receipts have enabled us to preserve more than four million acres of wetland refuges for North American waterfowl. Thus, the Federal Duck Stamp Program represents an effective partnership between the public and private sectors, bringing together government officials, artists, sportsmen, business and industry leaders, and oher concerned Americans in a concerted effort to restore and protect the wetlands that sustain our waterfowl population and other wildlife.
In recognition of the contributions of the Federal Duck Stamp Program, the Congress, by House Joint Resolution 599, has designated July 1, 1990, as "National Ducks and Wetlands Day" and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this day.
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim July 1, 1990, as National Ducks and Wetlands Day. I encourage the people of the United States to observe this day with appropriate ceremonies and activities and to support the Duck Stamp Program and other conservation efforts.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-ninth day of June, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fourteenth.

GEORGE BUSH
  