
    Pool Reports by Tarini Parti, The Wall Street Journal 



Sent:
Reports:




June 7, 202214:41 PDT

VP Travel Pool #1 roundtable info -- closed press event
Hi -- I'm your VP pooler for the day for her events in LA at the Summit of Americas.
The first one, which just started at 2:39 pm, is closed to press.
Here's info on the event on background from a White House Official:
The Vice President is hosting a women's leadership roundtable with women business executives, entrepreneurs, and civil society leaders to discuss economic empowerment in northern Central America.
Among other topics, they are discussing increasing women's participation in the work force, expanding women's financial and digital inclusion, and promoting diverse and inclusive workforce cultures.
Participants:1 VPOTUS2 Rebecca Lissner, Deputy National Security Advisor to the VP3 Blanca Trevino, Co-Chair, Partnership for Central America4 Michelle Nunn, CEO, CARE5 Carolyn Cawley, President, U.S. Chamber Foundation6 Luz Urrutia, CEO, Accion Opportunity Fund7 Teresa Casertano, Central America Director, AFL-CIO Solidarity Center8 Celina De Sola, Entrepreneur9 Pili Luna, Entrepreneur10 Suzy Ferriera, CEO, Dinie
Here's the schedule for the rest of the day:
At 3:20PM PDT, the Vice President will deliver remarks at the In Her Hands launch — an event promoting women's economic empowerment in northern Central America and throughout the Western Hemisphere. This event, co-hosted by the Chamber of Commerce, the Partnership for Central America, and the U.S. government, will launch new private sector and public sector initiatives to promote women's economic empowerment and address gender-based violence in the region, which will help address the root causes of migration. This event at the InterContinental Los Angeles will be pooled press, open to pre-credentialed media, and livestreamed at WhiteHouse.gov/live.
At 4:00PM PDT, the Vice President will host a roundtable with business executives as part of her Call to Action for northern Central America, the initiative she launched in May 2021 to bring together the private sector and social enterprises to invest in and support the long-term development of the region. The Vice President will announce significant new investments in the region by the private sector, which will create jobs and economic opportunity for people within their countries. The opening remarks at the InterContinental Los Angeles will be pooled press.



June 7, 202215:58 PDT

VP Travel Pool #2 women's econ event
VP came out to the stage and began remarks for the "In Her Hands" launch event at 3:45 pm. She was wearing a tan suit and no mask.
Remarks were live steamed, so I won't be sending full quotes.
VP announced a total of $3.2 billion in investments in northern triangle countries as part of her Partnership For Central America call to action, which the White House previewed this morning.
Harris said the next phase of the call to action will focus on women under the "In her Hands" initiative.
"When you lift up the economic status of women, you lift up the economic status of families, of her community and our entire hemisphere," Harris said.
She said American people will benefit from "stable and prosperous neighbors."
Her remarks ended at 3:55 pm.
Laurene Powell Jobs, Founder and Chair of Emerson Collective, introduced the VP. There was a delay in getting Powell Jobs on stage after she was announced. A speaker didn't give a reason for the delay and music played as we waited for several minutes. When she got on stage, she asked for the lights to be turned on in the room before getting started.
In her introduction, Powell Jobs said VP understands that root causes of migration are complex and require complex solutions.
Earlier in the event, a video showing the work being done through this initiative was shown.
Looked like there were roughly 200 people at the event.
More info on background from a WH Official:
The Vice President will deliver remarks at the In Her Hands launch — an event promoting women's economic empowerment in northern Central America and throughout the Western Hemisphere.
This event, co-hosted by the Chamber of Commerce, the Partnership for Central America, and the U.S. government, will launch new private sector and public sector initiatives to promote women's economic empowerment and address gender-based violence in the region, which will help address the root causes of migration.More information on these initiatives can be found here.



June 7, 202216:58 PDT

VP Travel Pool #3 CEO event
VP was already seated for the roundtable when pool entered at 4:43 pm.
She have brief opening remarks. She said the work of addressing root causes can't just be done by the government in order to have the needed "depth and longevity."
"so the work that we are doing is motivated by creating opportunities and investing in that region to allow opportunity for people to reach their capacity."
Harris said 40 companies are now part of this effort. "We have seen the success already."
She said the efforts were focused on combating corruption, empowering women, reducing violence and the need to respect the rule of law.
She thanked the leaders at the round table.
Please check quotes against transcript.
Pool was ushered out at 4:47 pm. Harris did not respond to a shouted q about whether summit could be successful without presence of Mexican leader.
That's all for her public events today.
More info from a WH official:
The Vice President will host a roundtable with business executives as part of her Call to Action for northern Central America, the initiative she launched in May 2021 to bring together the private sector and social enterprises to invest in and support the long-term development of the region.
The Vice President will discuss the announcement made earlier today that we have generated more than $3.2 billion in private sector investments in the region, which will create jobs and economic opportunity for people within their countries.
More information on this announcement can be found here.
Participants:VPOTUSPhil Gordon, Assistant to the President and National Security Advisor to the VPAjay Banga, Co-Chair, Partnership for Central AmericaJonathan "Jon" Fantini Porter, Executive Director, Partnership for Central AmericaMichelle Nunn, CEO, Care InternationalMelissa Nelson, General Counsel, SanMarSylvia Constain, Head of Government Engagement for Latin America, Visa, and former Colombian Minister of Information and Communication Technologies.Mauricio Ramos, CEO, MillicomMaria del Carmen Nasser, Executive Director, Fundación TerraEddie Ingle, CEO, UnifiUwe Martinz, President and CEO, COATLIturu "Elvis" Motobayashi, Executive Vice President, Yazaki



June 7, 202217:24 PDT

VP Travel Pool #4 additional names of speakers
The WH passes along names of speakers who spoke at the "In Her Hands" event before Powell Jobs and Harris.
Jonathan Fantini-Porter, Executive Director for Partnership For Central America
Christy Turlington Burns, Founder and President Every Mother Counts




  