
    
  Meanwhile, 23 Million Americans Are Struggling For Work – And President Clinton Warned This Might Happen

"Four years ago, President Clinton compared voting for Barack Obama to a roll of the dice. After three and a half years of mounting debt, fewer jobs, and policies that are hostile to jobs creators, it's clear that the gamble didn't pay off. Mitt Romney will take action from day one of his presidency to get our economy moving again." –Amanda Henneberg, Romney Campaign Spokesperson
During The 2008 Campaign, President Clinton Claimed Barack Obama Wasn't Prepared For The Challenges Of The Presidency:
Former President Bill Clinton, On Barack Obama's Qualifications For President: "When Is The Last Time We Elected A President Based On One Year Of Service In The Senate Before He Started Running?" ROSE: "You want to say to the voters if they are prepared to choose someone with less experience but perhaps other qualities -- as you've said, gifted in politics." CLINTON: "Very gifted." ROSE: "... intellect, then they are rolling the dice is what you are saying." CLINTON: "Well ..." ROSE: "They are rolling the dice about America if they don't choose the person who has had the kind of experience you are talking about." CLINTON: "It's less predictable, isn't it? I mean, when is the last time we elected a president based on one year of service in the Senate before he started running, and he will have been a senator longer by the time he is inaugurated, but essentially once you start running for president full time, you don't have time to do much else." (PBS's "Charlie Rose Show," 12/15/07)


Click Here To View President Clinton's Remarks On Barack Obama


President Clinton Suggested Obama Voters "Were Willing To 'Roll The Dice' On The Presidency." "Former President Bill Clinton made an unusually direct attack Friday night on Senator Barack Obama, one of his wife's leading rivals for the Democratic presidential nomination, suggesting that voters who would support someone with Mr. Obama's experience were willing to 'roll the dice' on the presidency." (Patrick Healy, "Bill Clinton Says Obama Isn't Ready," The New York Times, 12/16/07)
Four Years Later, How Did President Clinton Evaluate Governor Romney's Qualifications? "A Sterling Business Career" And More Than Qualified To Be President:
Former President Clinton, On Governor Romney's Qualifications For President: "The Man Who Has Been Governor And Had A Sterling Business Career Crosses The Qualification Threshold." "'I don't think that we ought to get into the position where we say 'This is bad work. This is good work,' Clinton said. 'The man who has been governor and had a sterling business career crosses the qualification threshold.'" (Byron Tau, "Bill Clinton: Mitt Romney's Business Record 'Sterling',"Politico, 5/31/12)

Click Here To View President Clinton's Remarks On Governor Romney

"Clinton Also Went On To Say That Romney's Time At Bain Capital Represented A 'Good Business Career.'" (Byron Tau, "Bill Clinton: Mitt Romney's Business Record 'Sterling'," Politico, 5/31/12)
The Results Are In On What President Clinton Described As A "Roll [Of] The Dice" – High Unemployment, Soaring Debt, And Policies That Are Hostile To Job Creators:
President Obama's Advisors Predicted The Stimulus Would Lower Unemployment To 6% Today – But It Remains Above 8%. (Christina Romer and Jared Bernstein, "The Job Impact Of The American Recovery And Reinvestment Plan," 1/9/09)


    Under President Obama, The Nation Has Lost 552,000 Jobs. (Bureau Of Labor Statistics, www.bls.gov, 6/4/12)
  

Last Month, "The Nation's Jobs Picture Dimmed" With Unemployment Increasing To 8.2%. "The nation's jobs picture dimmed in May as employers added just 69,000 jobs and the unemployment rate ticked up to 8.2 percent, a continuation of a long, slow employment recovery that began 33 months ago." (Susanna Kim, "May Unemployment Rises To 8.2 Pct.," ABC News, 6/1/12)
President Obama Has Projected The "Fourth Straight Year Of Deficits Over $1 Trillion." ("Highlights Of Obama's $3.8 Trillion Budget," The Associated Press, 2/14/12)


    Since President Obama Took Office, The Nation Has Added More Than $5 Trillion To The National Debt. (U.S. Department Of The Treasury, www.treasurydirect.gov, 6/4/12)
  

Nearly Three-Quarters Of Small-Business Owners Blame Obamacare For Impeding Job Creation. "As part of the explanation for the general economic pessimism, 78 percent of small businesses believe that taxation, regulation and legislation from Washington make it harder for businesses to hire more employees — and 74 percent blame the recent health care reforms passed by the Obama administration for creating an impediment to job creation." (Tim Mak, "Chamber Poll: Small Biz Blames D.C.," Politico, 1/18/12)
Gallup: Nearly Half Of Small-Business Owners Named Concern Over Government Regulations And Rising Health Care Costs As Reasons For Why They Were Not Hiring New Employees. (Dennis Jacobe, "Health Costs, Gov't Regulations Curb Small Business Hiring," Gallup, 2/15/12)
According To The Small Business And Entrepreneurship Council, "Business Owners Remain On Edge Regarding The Tidal Wave Of Federal Government Regulation." "'Business owners remain on edge regarding the tidal wave of federal government regulation that has been advanced or proposed over the past two years. ... The pain of the harsh recession was intensified and lengthened by this hyper-regulatory environment,' Karen Kerrigan, president of the Small Business and Entrepreneurship Council, wrote in a Jan. 12 letter to Issa." (Philip Rucker and David S. Hilzenrath, "GOP Eyes Rules That Firms Say Hurt Jobs," The Washington Post, 2/7/11)
  