
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
June 20
In the afternoon, the President went to Camp David, MD.
June 21
The President returned to Washington, DC.
June 22
In the morning, the President and Hillary Clinton traveled to Nashville, TN, and in the evening, they returned to Washington, DC.
June 23
In the morning, the President met with President Mary McAleese of Ireland in the Oval Office.
The President announced his intention to nominate Jane E. Henney to be Commissioner of the Food and Drug Administration at the Department of Health and Human Services.
The President announced his intention to nominate Thomasina Rogers to serve as a member of the Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission.
The President announced his intention to nominate Paul Steven Miller to serve as a Commissioner of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission.
The President announced his intention to appoint Marcia D. Greenberger as a member of the National Skill Standards Board.
The President announced his intention to appoint Donald D. Runnells as a member of the Nuclear Waste Technical Review Board.
The President announced his intention to appoint Jerry L. Sinn as Federal member of the Delaware River Basin Commission and the Susquehanna River Basin Commission.
The President declared a major disaster in Minnesota and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms, straightline winds, and tornadoes on May 15-30.
The President declared a major disaster in Texas and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area threatened by extreme fire hazards on June 4 and continuing.
The President declared a major disaster in Massachusetts and ordered Federal aid to supplement Commonwealth and local recovery efforts in the area struck by heavy rains and flooding beginning June 13 and continuing.
The White House announced that the President will travel to Atlanta, GA, and Miami, FL, on July 9.
The White House announced that President Emil Constantinescu of Romania will visit Washington, DC, on July 15-17.
The White House announced that Prime Minister Jerzy Buzek of Poland will visit Washington, DC, on July 10.
June 24
In the morning, the President traveled to Elmendorf Air Force Base, AK, and in the afternoon, he traveled to Xi'an, China, arriving the following evening.
June 25
The President announced his intention to nominate Richard E. Hecklinger to be Ambassador to Thailand.
The President announced his intention to nominate Theodore H. Kattouf to be Ambassador to the United Arab Emirates.
June 26
In the morning, the President and Hillary Clinton traveled to Xiahe village. In the afternoon, they were given a tour of the Terra Cotta Warriors exhibit at the Xianyang Museum, where they later had tea with Governor Cheng Andong of Shaanxi Province in the museum's VIP Room. Later in the afternoon, the President and Hillary Clinton visited the Shaanxi Historical Museum.
In the late afternoon, the President and Hillary Clinton returned to Xi'an, and in the evening, they traveled to Beijing.
The President announced his intention to nominate Joseph H. Melrose, Jr., to be Ambassador to Sierra Leone.
The President announced his intention to nominate Susan G. Esserman to be Deputy United States Trade Representative, with the rank of Ambassador.
The President announced his intention to appoint E.R. Chamberlin, Frank Pugliese, and Timothy Beyland to serve as members of the Committee for Purchase from People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled.
The President announced his intention to appoint Senator J. James Exon as a member of the U.S. Air Force Academy Board of Visitors.
  