
    President Bush to Nominate Seven Individuals to Serve in His Administration
President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate seven individuals to serve in his administration.
The President intends to nominate Michael Klossom to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Cyprus. A career member of the Senior Foreign Service, Klossom has served as Consul General for Hong Kong and Macau since August 1999. From 1996 to 1999, he served at the State Department as Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for Legislative Affairs. From 1990 to 1996, Klosson served as Deputy Chief of Mission and Charge d'Affairs at the U.S. Embassy in Stockholm, Sweden, and the U.S. Embassy in The Hague, the Netherlands. From 1984 to 1990, he served as Deputy Director of the Office of European Security and Political Affairs and as Director of the Secretariat Staff in the Office of the Secretary of State. Klossom earned a bachelor's degree from Hamilton College and Master's degrees from Princeton University.
The President intends to nominate Larry Leon Palmer to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Honduras. A career member of the Senior Foreign Service, Palmer is currently the Charge d'Affairs in Quito. In 1994 to 1998, Palmer was Counselor for Administration in the Dominican Republic, and from 1991 to 1994, he was Personnel Officer in Seoul. For two years, he was as a Pearson Fellow, serving as Assistant to the President of the University of Texas at El Paso. His past assignments include service in the Dominican Republic, Uruguay and Paraguay, and Sierra Leone. Before joining the Foreign Service, Palmer was a Peace Corps volunteer in Liberia. He received a bachelor's degree from Emory University and a Master's degree from Texas Southern University.
The President intends to nominate James Irvin Gadsden to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Iceland. A career member of the Senior Foreign Service, he is presently the Special Negotiator for Agricultural Biotechnology in the State Department's Bureau for Economic and Business Affairs. From 1997 to 2001, he was Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for European Affairs, and from 1994 to 1997, he was Deputy Chief of Mission at the U.S. Embassy in Budapest. Gadsden's past assignments include service in as Counselor for Economic Affairs in Paris, economic/political officer at the U.S. Mission to the European Communities in Brussels and European Communities desk officer at the State Department. He received a bachelor's degree from Harvard University and a Master's degree from Stanford University.
The President intends to nominate John R. Hamilton to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Guatemala. A career Foreign Service officer, Hamilton has served as Ambassador to Peru since 1999, and he was previously the Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary of State in the Bureau of Western Hemisphere Affairs. In 1992, Hamilton was named Director of Central American Affairs, and from 1989 to 1992, he was Political Counselor at the U.S. Embassy in San Jose, Costa Rica. He received a bachelor's degree from the University of North Carolina and a Master's degree from Stanford University.
The President intends to nominate Randolph M. Bell to have the rank of Ambassador during his tenure of service as the Special Envoy for Holocaust Issues. A career member of the Foreign Service, he is currently the Director for Austria, Germany and Switzerland Affairs, and was previously the Director of UK, Ireland and Benelux Affairs in the Bureau of European Affairs. In 1993, Bell was names Director of the Office of Russian and Eurasian Affairs. His past overseas assignments include service as Political-Economic Counselor in Prague and Political Counselor in Brussels. Bell received a bachelor's degree from the College of William and Mary and Cambridge University.
The President intends to nominate Deborah Doyle McWhinney to be a Director of the Board of Directors for the Securities Investor Protection Corporation to represent the Securities Industry for the remainder of a three-year term expiring December 31, 2004. McWhinney is presently the President of Services for Investment Advisors at Schwab International, and she was previously the President of Engage Media Services Group. From 1995 to 1999, she was with VISA International, and from 1978 to 1995, McWhinney was with Bank of America, first in the Consumer Markets, then in the Corporate Banking Groups and finally in the Retail Banking Group. She is a graduate of the University of Montana.
The President intends to nominate William H. Campbell to be Assistant Secretary for the Department of Veterans Affairs for Management. Campbell is currently the Deputy Assistant Secretary of Veterans Affairs for Finance, and Acting Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary for Management. Before joining the VA, Campbell was the Director of Finance and Procurement, a position that combined the functions of Chief Financial Officer, Head of Contracting Activity, Senior Acquisition Selection Official, Senior Competition Advocate, and Director of Security and Counter Intelligence. He has also served as the Chief Engineer for the Naval Supply Systems Command and as Program Manager for the Navy Spares Competition and Logistics Technology Program. Campbell earned a bachelor's degree from Massachusetts Maritime Academy and a Master's degree from Johns Hopkins University.
  