
    The Chairman and I met again today and talked for somewhat more than 4 hours, beginning at lunch and working through until just now.
We have gone more deeply than before into a great number of the many questions before our two countries in the world. We have also agreed to keep in good communication in the future through Secretary Rusk and Foreign Minister Gromyko, through our very able Ambassadors, Mr. Dobrynin and Mr. Thompson, and also directly.
We have made further progress in an effort to improve our understanding of each other's thinking on a number of questions.
I believe more strongly than ever that these have been very good and very useful talks. The Chairman and I join in extending our thanks to Governor and Mrs. Hughes, to President and Mrs. Robinson, and to the good people of Glassboro for the contribution that they have made in making these good meetings possible.
And now I should like to ask the Chairman to say a word or two.
CHAIRMAN KOSYGIN. Esteemed ladies and gentlemen:
I would like first of all to thank all the citizens of Glassboro and the Governor, and the president of the college, for having created a very good atmosphere for the talks that we were able to have here with your President.
I think altogether we have spent and worked here for about 8 or 9 hours, and we have come to become accustomed to this place. We like the town and we think the people of Glassboro are very good people. We have come to like them. And we have been very favorably impressed by the time we have spent here.
As during the first meeting which took place on June 23d, the exchange of views between the President and myself touched upon several international issues.
Also, in the course of these conversations we had a general review of the state of bilateral Soviet-American relations.
On the whole, these meetings provided the Governments of the Soviet Union and the United States with an opportunity to compare their positions on the questions under discussion, and this both sides believe is useful.
Once again, on my own behalf and on behalf of all those who have come here with me, I wish to extend my profound gratitude to you all. Goodby.
[Following their remarks to members of the press, Chairman Kosygin and the President spoke briefly to the assembled crowd.]
CHAIRMAN KOSYGIN. I want to thank you all very sincerely for this very warm welcome. May I salute friendship between the Soviet and American peoples, and to all of you I want to wish every success and happiness, and express the hope that we shall go forward together for peace.
PRESIDENT JOHNSON. You good people of Glassboro have done your part in helping us make this a significant and a historic meeting.
We think that this meeting has been useful, and we think it will be helpful in achieving what we all want more than anything else in the world--peace for all humankind.
Thank you very much.
  