
    "When President Obama brings his 'doing fine' message to Ohio today, he'll need to answer for five years' worth of broken promises to Cuyahoga's students. As middle-class families struggle, the economy lags, and our national debt explodes, it's clear to everyone – except President Obama – that he hasn't lived up to his own promises. On Day One of his presidency, Mitt Romney will take immediate steps to get the economy moving again and put Americans back to work." –Amanda Henneberg, Romney Campaign Spokesperson
Today, President Obama Returns To Cuyahoga Community College To Discuss The Economy:
Today, President Obama Will Speak At Cuyahoga Community College In Cleveland To Discuss The Economy. "President Obama is scheduled to speak at the Cuyahoga Community College Metropolitan Campus in Cleveland Thursday just five minutes prior to when Romney himself is set to begin an event in Cincinnati. This is the first time the president and the presumptive GOP candidate will hold public campaign events in the same state on the same day." (Emily Friedman, "Romney Predicts Obama Will Change Course In Ohio Speech, Says 'Words Are Cheap'," ABC News, 6/13/12)
But Today Isn't President Obama's First Visit – Over The Last Five Years, He's Made Promises To Cuyahoga Students That He Hasn't Kept:
In 2007, Candidate Obama Told Cuyahoga Community College It Would Be "Un-American" To Pass Down To "Our Children And Grandchildren" An "America That's A Little Poorer And A Little Leaner." OBAMA: "If we fail to accept the challenge, then we find ourselves perhaps the first generation in a very long time in which our children and our grandchildren inherit an America that's a little poorer and a little leaner than the one that we received from our parents. Now that's unacceptable, that's un-American." (Senator Barack Obama, Remarks at Cuyahoga Community College, Highland Hills, OH, 2/26/07)


    Median Family Net Worth Has Hit A Two-Decade Low. "The Great Recession shrank Americans' wealth so much that in 2010 median family net worth was no more than it had been in 1992 after adjusting for inflation, the Federal Reserve reported Monday. Median net worth declined from $126,400 in 2007 to $77,300 in 2010, a Fed survey of family finances found. The median marks the point where half had more and half had less." (Martin Crutsinger, "Fed Report: Middle Class Net Worth Tumbles," The Associated Press, 6/12/12)
  



    "Summer Jobs For Teens Are Disappearing" With "Fewer Than Three In 10 American Teenagers" Currently Able To Find Work. "Once a rite of passage to adulthood, summer jobs for teens are disappearing. Fewer than three in 10 American teenagers now hold jobs such as running cash registers, mowing lawns or busing restaurant tables from June to August. The decline has been particularly sharp since 2000, with employment for 16-to-19-year olds falling to the lowest level since World War II." (Hope Yen, "More Than Seven In 10 U.S. Teens Jobless In Summer," The Associated Press, 6/12/12)
  

President Obama, At Cuyahoga Community College In 2010: "The Economy Is Growing Again." OBAMA: "And, Ohio, we have done that. The economy is growing again. The financial markets have stabilized. The private sector has created jobs for the last eight months in a row. And there are roughly 3 million Americans who are working today because of the economic plan we put into place." (President Barack Obama, Remarks at Cuyahoga Community College, Parma, OH, 9/8/10)


    The Associated Press: "The Dismal Jobs Figures Could Fan Fears That The Economy Is Sputtering." "U.S. employers created 69,000 jobs in May, the fewest in a year, and the unemployment rate ticked up. The dismal jobs figures could fan fears that the economy is sputtering." (Christopher Rugaber, "U.S. Employers Added 69,000 Jobs In May As The Unemployment Rate Rose To 8.2 Percent," The Associated Press, 6/1/12)
  



    The Nation's GDP "Grew At A Slower Pace Than Previous Reported" In The First Quarter Of 2012 – 1.9% – Which Is "Widely Considered To Be Weak" Economic Growth. "The nation's economy grew at a slower pace than previously reported in the first three months of this year, raising new concerns about economic weakness. Gross domestic product, the broadest measure of the nation's economic health, grew at an annual rate of 1.9% in the first quarter, the Commerce Department said Thursday. The rate was lowered from the 2.2% growth rate originally reported in April, and significantly slower than the 3% growth rate in the final three months of last year. The current growth rate is widely considered to be weak." (Chris Isidore, "U.S. GDP Grows At 1.9% Annual Rate In 1st Quarter," CNN Money, 5/31/12)
  

President Obama, At Cuyahoga Community College In 2010: "I'll Spend The Next Year Making The Tough Choices Necessary To Further Reduce Our Deficit And Lower Our Debt" OBAMA: "But I am absolutely committed to fiscal responsibility, which is why I've already proposed freezing all discretionary spending unrelated to national security for the next three years. And once the bipartisan fiscal commission finishes its work, I'll spend the next year making the tough choices necessary to further reduce our deficit and lower our debt -- whether I get help from the other side or not." (President Barack Obama, Remarks at Cuyahoga Community College, Parma, OH, 9/8/10)


    Since President Obama's Last Visit To Cuyahoga Community College, The National Debt Has Increased By More Than $2.3 Trillion To A Record Total Of $15.7 Trillion. (U.S. Department Of The Treasury, www.treasurydirect.gov, 6/13/12)
  



    President Obama Did "Not Come Close" To Keeping His Promise To Cut The Deficit In Half By The End Of His First Term. "The 2013 budget the president submitted today does not come close to meeting this promise of being reduced to $650 billion for fiscal year 2013. The president noted in that 2009 speech the Obama administration inherited a $1.3 trillion deficit. The deficit was similarly $1.3 trillion in 2011, is projected to be $1.15 trillion in 2012, and the president's budget claims it will be $901 billion in 2013." (Jake Tapper, "Obama's Broken Deficit Promise," ABC News, 2/13/12)
  

  