
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate five individuals and appoint one individual to serve in his Administration:
The President intends to nominate Steven G. Bradbury, of Maryland, to be an Assistant Attorney General (Office of Legal Counsel) at the Department of Justice. Mr. Bradbury currently serves as Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General in the Office of Legal Counsel at the Department of Justice. He previously served as a Partner with Kirkland & Ellis, LLP in Washington, DC. Earlier in his career, Mr. Bradbury served as a Law Clerk for The Honorable Clarence Thomas, Supreme Court of the United States and for The Honorable James L. Buckley, U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit. He earned his bachelor's degree from Stanford University and his J.D. from the University of Michigan Law School.
The President intends to nominate Colleen Duffy Kiko, of Virginia, to be General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority, for a five-year term. Ms. Kiko currently serves as a Member of the Employees' Compensation Appeals Board at the Department of Labor. She previously served as an Associate with Ronald M. Cohen & Associates, P.C. in Arlington, Virginia. Earlier in her career, Ms. Kiko started a General Law Practice in McLean, Virginia and served as Associate Counsel for the U.S. House of Representatives Committee on the Judiciary Subcommittee on Civil and Constitutional Rights. She earned her bachelor's degree from North Dakota State University and her J.D. from George Mason School of Law.
The President intends to nominate Stephanie Johnson Monroe, of Virginia, to be Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights at the Department of Education. Most recently, Ms. Monroe served as Chief Counsel for the Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions. She previously served as Chief Counsel and Staff Director for the Senate Committee on Labor and Human Resources Subcommittee on Children and Families. Earlier in her career, Ms. Monroe served as a Legislative Assistant for Representative Gordon Humphrey. She earned her bachelor's degree from the University of Maryland and her J.D. from the University of Baltimore.
The President intends to nominate Granta Y. Nakayama, of Virginia, to be Assistant Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency (Enforcement & Compliance Assurance). Mr. Nakayama currently serves as a Partner for Environmental Law and Product Safety at Kirkland & Ellis, LLP in Washington, DC. In addition, he is an adjunct professor at George Mason University School of Law, where he teaches environmental law. He previously served as Chief of Quality Control for Welding and Nondestructive Testing Branch of the Naval Nuclear Propulsion Program for the United States Navy. Prior to this position, Mr. Nakayama served as Chief Engineer for Nuclear Core Manufacturing for the Naval Nuclear Propulsion Program. Mr. Nakayama earned his bachelor's and master's degree from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and his J.D. from George Mason University.
The President intends to nominate Mary M. Rose, of North Carolina, to be a Member of the Merit Systems Protection Board, for the remainder of a seven-year term expiring March 1, 2011. Ms. Rose currently serves as Vice Chairman of the Federal Salary Council and Chairman of the Federal Prevailing Rate Advisory Committee. She previously served as Deputy Associate Director of the Office of Presidential Personnel at the White House. Earlier in her career, Ms. Rose served as Deputy Undersecretary of Management at the Department of Education. She graduated from the Bon Secours School of Nursing.
The President intends to appoint Ignacio Eduardo Sanchez, of Florida, to be a Member of the Board of Trustees of the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars, for the remainder of a six-year term expiring October 23, 2010.
  