
    President Jimmy Carter of the United States visited Lisbon on June 26 at the invitation of the President of Portugal, Antonio Ramalho Eanes. The visit provided an opportunity for meetings between the two Presidents and between President Carter and Prime Minister Francisco Sa Carneiro.
President Carter and his hosts noted with satisfaction the close relations between the U.S. and Portugal, based on long-standing ties of friendship, common commitment to democratic values, and partnership in the NATO Alliance. They discussed international issues, including the situation in Afghanistan, in Iran, and in the Middle East; new forms of coordination and consultation among the Western countries; and US-Portuguese cooperation in enhancing western security, including development and conservation of energy resources.
In emphasizing Portugal's very positive contributions to the Western Alliance, President Carter congratulated both the President and the Prime Minister for their vigorous leadership in the evolution of Portuguese democracy. He expressed particular appreciation for the prompt response of the Portuguese Government to the Soviet armed invasion and occupation of Afghanistan. The leaders agreed that this Soviet action, in flagrant violation of the United Nations charter, seriously threatens international peace and poses a major strategic challenge affecting vital western interests in Southwest Asia and the Persian Gulf region.
In accord with that shared strategic assessment, the leaders view as indispensable the application of concrete political, economic, and commercial measures to impress upon the Soviet Union the necessity of a prompt and complete withdrawal of its troops from Afghanistan.
In line with that view, the leaders welcomed the concerted steps which NATO is now pursuing in order to strengthen the common defense in response to the strategic challenge faced by all the Western Allies and they pledged their commitment to the earliest possible fulfillment of the goals embodied in NATO's long-term defense program. Bearing in mind the U.S. commitment of resources toward building a security framework in the region of Southwest Asia and the Persian Gulf, they further recognized the usefulness of adequate consultation among the Western Allies regarding security requirements within the NATO area.
President Carter also reiterated his appreciation and that of the entire American people for the forthright support given by Portugal to the international effort to secure release of American hostages held by Iran in defiance of international law and universally accepted standards of decency. The leaders stressed that the principle of the rule of law, vital to the health and stability of the world community, is at stake in this crisis. They agreed that continued detention of the hostages will further undermine Iran's international standing and they concurred in the necessity of maintaining economic sanctions on Iran as well as the efforts being pursued by international bodies as a way of convincing the Iranian authorities to release all the hostages unharmed.
Turning to other aspects of mutual interest, both sides recognized the importance of achieving a comprehensive and lasting peace in the Middle East which takes into consideration the interests of all the parties involved.
President Carter welcomed the constructive insights and suggestions which President Eanes and Prime Minister Sa Carneiro offered regarding critical issues affecting East-West and North-South relationships. In particular, President Carter praised Portugal's efforts to strengthen ties with Africa, and especially with the Lusophone African states. They agreed that it would be useful to intensify U.S.-Portuguese consultations on ways in which both countries can work for greater peace, freedom, and prosperity.
  