
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this book.
January 20
In the afternoon, following the Inaugural luncheon in Statuary Hall at the Capitol, President Bush and First Lady Laura Bush went by motorcade along the Inaugural parade route to the White House, where they viewed the parade from the reviewing stand.
In the evening, the President and Mrs. Bush attended several Inaugural balls.
January 22
In the morning, the President had intelligence and national security briefings and met with Chief of Staff Andrew H. Card, Jr. Later, he met with Secretary of State Colin L. Powell.
In the evening, the President met with Speaker of the House of Representatives J. Dennis Hastert.
The White House announced that the President will travel to San Cristobal, Mexico, on February 16 to meet with President Vicente Fox of Mexico.
January 23
In the morning, the President had separate telephone conversations with President Vicente Fox of Mexico and Prime Minister Tony Blair of the United Kingdom.
In the afternoon, the President met with Mayor Anthony A. Williams of Washington, DC.
In the evening, the President had separate telephone conversations with Prime Minister Yoshiro Mori of Japan and President Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo of the Philippines.
January 24
In the morning, the President had separate telephone conversations with King Fahd and Crown Prince Abdullah of Saudi Arabia, President Hosni Mubarak of Egypt, and King Abdullah II of Jordan.
In the evening, the President met with Senator John McCain.
Later, the President had separate telephone conversations with President Kim Dae-jung of South Korea and President Aleksander Kwasniewski of Poland.
January 25
In the morning, the President had intelligence and national security briefings.
In the evening, the President had a telephone conversation with Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder of Germany.
Later, the President and Laura Bush traveled to Hyattsville, MD, where they met with Catholic leaders at the residence of Archbishop Theodore E. McCarrick of the Archdiocese of Washington, DC. They then returned to Washington, DC.
The White House announced that the President invited Prime Minister Jean Chretien of Canada to the White House on February 5.
January 26
In the morning, the President had intelligence and national security briefings.
The White House announced that the President will welcome Prime Minister Tony Blair of the United Kingdom to Washington for a working visit February 23–24.
January 27
In the evening, the President and Mrs. Bush attended an Alfalfa Club dinner at the Capital Hilton.
January 29
In the evening, the President had a telephone conversation with Brian Billick, head coach of the Super Bowl XXXV champion Baltimore Ravens.
January 30
In the morning, the President had foreign policy, intelligence, and national security briefings. Later, he had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Atal Behari Vajpayee of India, concerning assistance for victims of the recent earthquake.
The President announced his intention to appoint John Howard as Deputy Assistant to the President and Deputy Director of the White House Office of Legislative Affairs, David W. Hobbs as Deputy Assistant to the President and Deputy Director of the White House Office of Legislative Affairs for the House of Representatives, and Ziad S. Ojakli as Deputy Assistant to the President and Deputy Director of the White House Office of Legislative Affairs for the Senate.
The President announced his intention to appoint Brian C. Conklin, Kirsten Ardleigh Chadwick, R. Nelson Litterest, and Daniel J. Keniry as Special Assistants to the President for Legislative Affairs for the House of Representatives.
The President announced his intention to appoint Christine M. Ciccone, Townsend Lange McNitt, and Dirksen Lehman as Special Assistants to the President for Legislative Affairs for the Senate.
February 1
The President had separate telephone conversations with Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott and Attorney General John Ashcroft, to congratulate them on the Attorney General's confirmation by the Senate.
In the evening, the President hosted a private screening of the film "Thirteen Days" in the Family Theater at the White House, for guests including Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Representative Patrick J. Kennedy, Lt. Gov. Kathleen Kennedy Townsend, and Caroline Kennedy Schlossberg and her husband, Edwin Schlossberg.
February 2
In the morning, the President attended a Senate Democratic retreat at the Library of Congress. Later in the morning, he traveled to Williamsburg, VA, and in the afternoon, he traveled to Camp David, MD.
The President designated John D. Whitmore as Acting Administrator of the Small Business Administration.
The White House announced that the President will meet with Prime Minister Jean Chretien of Canada on February 5 for a working lunch.
February 3
The President had a telephone conversation with President Thabo Mbeki of South Africa.
February 4
In the afternoon, the President traveled to Farmington, PA, where he participated in a Democratic congressional retreat. Later, he returned to Washington, DC.
February 5
In the morning, the President had intelligence and national security briefings and met with Secretary of State Colin L. Powell.
In the afternoon, the President had a working luncheon with Federal Reserve Board Chairman Alan Greenspan.
The President announced his intention to nominate Mark A. Weinberger to be Assistant Secretary of the Treasury for Tax Policy.
The President announced his intention to nominate Paul Wolfowitz to be Deputy Secretary of Defense.
February 6
In the morning, the President had intelligence, national security, and economic policy briefings.
In the late afternoon, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister-elect Ariel Sharon of Israel, to congratulate Mr. Sharon on his electoral victory.
The President announced his intention to nominate Richard Haass for the rank of Ambassador during his tenure of service as Director of Policy Planning for the State Department.
The President announced his intention to nominate Marc Grossman to be Under Secretary of State for Political Affairs.
The President announced his intention to nominate Grant S. Green to be Under Secretary of State for Management.
The President announced his intention to nominate Sean O'Keefe to be Deputy Director of the Office of Management and Budget.
The President announced that he has designated Carolyn Huntoon as Acting Assistant Secretary of Energy.
February 7
In the morning, the President had intelligence and national security briefings.
February 8
In the morning, the President met with a group of high-tech business leaders in the Roosevelt Room. He also had separate telephone conversations with Chairman Yasser Arafat of the Palestinian Authority and Sultan Qaboos of Oman.
The President announced his intention to nominate Senator Bill Frist to be one of two Senate representatives to the 55th Session of the General Assembly of the United Nations.
The President announced his intention to nominate Michele Davis to be Assistant Secretary of the Treasury for Public Affairs.
February 9
In the morning, the President had intelligence and national security briefings. Later, he met with Mardi Gras princesses and Louisiana festival queens in the Oval Office and with State and local superintendents of education in the Roosevelt Room.
Also in the morning, the President had separate telephone conversations with King Mohamed VI of Morocco and Prime Minister Giuliano Amato of Italy. Later, in the Roosevelt Room, he met with a group of incumbent Louisiana politicians who had recently switched their affiliations to the Republican Party.
In the afternoon, the President met with Utah Jazz basketball player Karl Malone in the Oval Office. He then went to Camp David, MD.
February 11
In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC.
February 12
In the morning, the President traveled to Fort Stewart, GA, and in the afternoon, he returned to Washington, DC.
The President announced his intention to nominate Richard Lee Armitage to be Deputy Secretary of State.
The President announced his intention to nominate Dov Zakheim to be Under Secretary of Defense and Comptroller.
The President announced his intention to nominate Thelma J. Askey to be Commissioner of the U.S. International Trade Commission.
The President announced his intention to nominate Kenneth I. Juster to be Under Secretary of Commerce for Export Administration.
The President announced his intention to nominate Faryar Shirzad to be Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Import Administration.
The President announced his intention to nominate Theodore William Kassinger to be General Counsel of the Department of Commerce.
The President announced his intention to nominate Scott Whitaker to be Assistant Secretary of Health and Human Services for Legislation.
The President announced his intention to designate Laura S. Unger as Acting Chairwoman of the Securities and Exchange Commission.
February 13
In the morning, the President traveled to Norfolk, VA, and in the afternoon, he returned to Washington, DC.
The President announced his intention to nominate Gov. Argeo Paul Cellucci of Massachusetts to be Ambassador to Canada.
The President announced his intention to nominate Michael P. Jackson to be Deputy Secretary of Transportation.
The President announced his intention to nominate John M. Duncan to be Under Secretary of the Treasury for Legislative Affairs.
February 14
In the morning, the President traveled to Charleston, WV, where he visited the West Virginia National Guard emergency operations center to watch a simulated emergency flood response exercise. In the afternoon, he returned to Washington, DC.
In an afternoon ceremony in the Oval Office, the President received diplomatic credentials from Ambassadors Ivan Grdesic of Croatia, Emmanuel Touaboy of the Central African Republic, Juan Jose Bremer Martino of Mexico, Milan St. Protic of Yugoslavia, Kanat Saudabayev of Kazakhstan, Meret Orazov of Turkmenistan, and Carlos Alzamora Traverso of Peru.
The President announced his intention to nominate Larry D. Thompson to be Deputy Attorney General at the Department of Justice.
The President announced his intention to nominate Theodore B. Olson to be Solicitor General of the United States.
The White House announced that the President will have a working visit with President Andres Pastrana of Colombia at the White House on February 27.
February 15
The President announced his intention to nominate Charles A. James to be Assistant Attorney General for the Antitrust Division of the Department of Justice.
The President announced his intention to nominate Daniel J. Bryant to be Assistant Attorney General for Legislative Affairs.
The White House announced that the President will have a working visit with President Kim Dae-jung of South Korea at the White House on March 7.
February 16
In the morning, the President traveled to San Cristobal, Mexico. In the evening, he traveled to Crawford, TX.
The President announced his intention to nominate William Howard Taft IV to be Legal Advisor to the Secretary of State.
February 17
The President and Mrs. Bush attended a hometown celebration welcoming them on their first post-Inauguration visit to Crawford.
February 19
In the morning, the President and Mrs. Bush traveled to Oklahoma City, OK, where they toured the Oklahoma City National Memorial Center Museum. Later, they met privately with survivors and family members of victims of the 1995 bombing of the Alfred P. Murrah Federal Building.
In the afternoon, the President and Mrs. Bush returned to Washington, DC.
February 20
In the morning, the President and Mrs. Bush traveled to Columbus, OH, where they toured Sullivant Elementary School classrooms and met with reading mentors.
In the afternoon, the President and Mrs. Bush traveled to St. Louis, MO, where they toured Moline Elementary School classrooms and listened to a reading of "Amazing Grace." Later, the President met with Archbishop Justin Rigali of St. Louis at a private residence.
The President named Ruben Barrales as Deputy Assistant to the President and Director of the Office of Intergovernmental Affairs.
February 21
In the morning, the President traveled to Townsend, TN, where he met with students from Doyle Middle School at McGhee Tyson Airport. Later, he toured Townsend Elementary School classrooms and listened to several essay readings.
While returning to the airport in the afternoon, the President stopped in front of Heritage Middle School to shake hands with students. Later, he returned to Washington, DC.
In the evening, the President and Mrs. Bush attended a private dinner at the home of Katharine Graham, executive committee chairman, Washington Post Co.
The President announced his intention to nominate Andrew Natsios to be Administrator of the U.S. Agency for International Development.
The President announced his intention to nominate Maria Cino to be Assistant Secretary of Commerce and Director General of the U.S. and Foreign Commercial Service.
The President announced his intention to nominate Brenda L. Becker to be Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Legislative Affairs.
The President announced his intention to nominate David Aufhauser to be General Counsel for the Department of the Treasury.
The President announced his intention to nominate Robert E. Fabricant to be Assistant Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency (General Counsel).
The President announced his intention to nominate John Robert Bolton to be Under Secretary of State for Arms Control and International Security Affairs.
The President announced the appointment of Gary R. Edson as Deputy Assistant to the President for International Economic Affairs and Deputy National Security Adviser.
February 22
In the morning, the President had intelligence and national security briefings.
The President announced his intention to nominate James Andrew Kelly to be Assistant Secretary of State for East Asian and Pacific Affairs.
The White House announced that the President will meet with President Fernando Henrique Cardoso of Brazil at the White House on March 30.
February 23
In the morning, the President had intelligence and national security briefings. He also had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Bulent Ecevit of Turkey.
Later in the morning, the President and Mrs. Bush went to Camp David, MD, where in the afternoon, they welcomed Prime Minister Tony Blair of the United Kingdom and his wife, Cherie. Later, the President had a working lunch with Prime Minister Blair at the Laurel Lodge.
The President announced his intention to nominate Tim S. McClain to be General Counsel of the Department of Veterans Affairs.
The White House announced that the President will travel to Pittsburgh, PA, and Council Bluffs, IA, on February 28 and to Little Rock, AR, and Atlanta, GA, on March 1.
February 25
In the afternoon, the President and Mrs. Bush returned to Washington, DC.
February 26
In the morning, the President had intelligence and national security briefings.
The President announced his intention to nominate Hector V. Barreto to be Administrator of the Small Business Administration.
The President announced his intention to nominate Mel Sembler to be President of the Export-Import Bank.
The President announced his intention to nominate Robert Glenn Hubbard to be a member of the Council of Economic Advisers. Upon confirmation, Mr. Hubbard will serve as the Chairman of the Council.
The White House announced that the President will meet with President Francisco Flores of El Salvador at the White House on March
2.
The White House announced that the President invited Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder of Germany to the White House for a working visit on March 29.
The White House announced that the President invited President Hosni Mubarak of Egypt to the White House for a working visit on April
2.
The White House announced that the President invited King Abdullah II of Jordan to the White House for a working visit on April 10.
February 27
In the morning, the President had intelligence and national security briefings.
The White House announced that the President will meet with NATO Secretary General Lord Robertson on March 8.
February 28
In the morning, the President traveled to Beaver, PA, where he met with Bishop Donald W. Wuerl of the Catholic Diocese of Pittsburgh.
In the afternoon, the President traveled to Omaha, NE, and later, he traveled to Little Rock and North Little Rock, AR.
The President announced his intention to nominate Wade F. Horn to be Assistant Secretary of Health and Human Services for Family Support.
The President announced his intention to nominate Kevin Keane to be Assistant Secretary of Health and Human Services for Public Affairs.
The President announced his intention to nominate Lee Sarah Liberman Otis to be General Counsel at the Department of Energy.
The President announced his intention to nominate Peter S. Watson to be President of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation.
March 1
In the morning, the President toured Lakewood Elementary School, where he answered questions from first graders in classroom 6. Later, he traveled to Atlanta, GA. In the evening, he returned to Washington, DC.
The President announced his intention to nominate Lincoln P. Bloomfield to be Assistant Secretary of State for Political Military Affairs.
The President announced his intention to nominate Viet Dinh to be Assistant Attorney General for Legal Policy.
The President declared a disaster in Washington State and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by an earthquake on February 28 and continuing.
The White House announced that the President ordered an increase in the Federal funding to Arkansas for debris removal in ice storm recovery efforts.
March 2
In the morning, the President had intelligence and national security briefings. He also had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Constantine Simitis of Greece.
In the afternoon, the President and Mrs. Bush went to Camp David, MD.
The President announced his intention to nominate Chris Spear to be Assistant Secretary of Labor for Policy.
The President announced his intention to nominate John B. Taylor to be Under Secretary of the Treasury for International Affairs.
The White House announced that the President will meet with Prime Minister Bertie Ahern of Ireland at the White House on March
16.
March 4
In the morning, the President and Mrs. Bush traveled to Hampton, VA. In the afternoon, they traveled to Newport News, VA, and later returned to Washington, DC.
March 5
In the evening, the President had a telephone conversation with Vice President Cheney, to wish him well following an angioplasty procedure at George Washington University Hospital.
The President announced his intention to nominate William S. Farish to be Ambassador to Great Britain and Northern Ireland.
The President announced his intention to nominate Kenneth Dam to be Deputy Secretary of the Treasury.
The President announced his intention to nominate Roger Walton Ferguson, Jr., to be a member of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System.
The White House announced that the President announced that 203 educators will receive the annual Presidential Awards for Excellence in Mathematics and Science Teaching for 2000.
March 6
In the morning, the President traveled to Chicago, IL, where he toured Chicago Mercantile Exchange in the afternoon. Later in the afternoon, he returned to Washington, DC.
The President announced his intention to nominate Ralph F. Boyd, Jr., to be Assistant Attorney General for the Civil Rights Division.
The President announced his intention to nominate John D. Graham to be Administrator of the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs of the Office of Management and Budget.
The President announced his intention to nominate Patrick Pizzella to be Assistant Secretary of Labor for Administration and Management.
The President announced his intention to nominate John D. Negroponte to be U.S. Representative to the United Nations, with the rank of Ambassador.
The White House announced that the President will travel to Go¨teborg, Sweden, to attend the European Union-U.S. summit in June.
March 7
In the morning, the President had a meeting with Mayor Richard J. Riordan of Los Angeles, CA.
The President announced his intention to nominate Pete Aldridge to be Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics.
The President announced his intention to nominate Robert Gordon Card to be Under Secretary of Energy.
The President announced his intention to nominate Kristine Ann Iverson to be Assistant Secretary of Labor for Congressional and Intergovernmental Affairs.
The President announced his intention to nominate Bobby P. Jindal to be Assistant Secretary of Health and Human Services for Planning and Evaluation.
The President announced his intention to nominate Donna McLean to be Assistant Secretary of Transportation for Budget and Programs and Chief Financial Officer of the Department of Transportation.
The White House announced that the President welcomed the formation of Israel's new government and extended his congratulations to Prime Minister Ariel Sharon, who will come to the White House for a working visit on March
20.
March 8
In the morning, the President had intelligence and national security briefings.
In the afternoon, the President traveled to Fargo, ND, and in the evening, he traveled to Sioux Falls, SD.
The President announced his intention to nominate Peter R. Fisher to be Under Secretary of the Treasury for Domestic Finance.
The President announced his intention to nominate J. Steven Griles to be Deputy Secretary of the Interior.
The President announced his intention to nominate Bill Hansen to be Deputy Secretary of Education.
The President announced his intention to nominate Sean B. O'Hollaren to be Assistant Secretary of Transportation for Government Affairs.
The White House announced that the President will visit NATO Headquarters in Brussels, Belgium, in June as part of his first official trip to Europe.
March 9
In the morning, the President traveled to Fayetteville, LA, and in the afternoon, he traveled to Crawford, TX.
The President announced his intention to nominate Ruth A. Davis to be Director General and Chairman of the Board of the Foreign Service.
The President announced his intention to nominate Alphonso R. Jackson to be Deputy Secretary of Housing and Urban Development.
The President announced his intention to nominate James J. Jochum to be Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Export Administration.
The President announced the appointment of Richard R. Kasher, Helen Mercer Witt, and Robert Oberndoerfer Harris as members of Presidential Emergency Board No. 235. Ms. Witt will serve as Chairman.
The White House announced that the President will welcome Prime Minister Yoshiro Mori of Japan to Washington for a working visit on March 19.
The White House announced that the President will meet with Vice Premier Qian Qichen of China at the White House on March 22.
March 12
In the morning, the President traveled to Panama City, FL, and in the afternoon, he returned to Washington, DC.
The President announced his intention to nominate Paula J. Dobriansky to be Under Secretary of State for Global Affairs.
The President announced the designation of Dale Cabaniss as Chairman of the Federal Labor Relations Authority.
March 13
In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President met with leaders of the Boy Scouts of America to receive their annual report to the Nation.
Later in the morning, in an Oval Office ceremony, the President received diplomatic credentials from Ambassadors Cyrille Oguin of Benin, Usha Jeetah of Mauritius, Yang Jiechi of China, Knut Vollebaek of Norway, Vygaudus Usackas of Lithuania, and Rostom al-Zoubi of Syria.
The President announced his intention to nominate Roy A. Bernardi to be Assistant Secretary of Housing and Urban Development for Community Planning and Development.
The President announced his intention to nominate William James Haynes to be General Counsel at the Department of Defense.
The President announced his intention to nominate Victoria Clarke to be Assistant Secretary of Defense for Public Affairs.
The President announced his intention to nominate Michael Chertoff to be Assistant Attorney General for the Criminal Division at the Department of Justice.
The White House announced that the President will meet with President Fernando de la Rua of Argentina at the White House for a working visit on April 19.
March 14
In the morning, the President traveled to Plainfield, NJ. In the afternoon, he traveled to East Brunswick, NJ, and later returned to Washington, DC.
The President announced his intention to nominate Richard J. Egan to be Ambassador to Ireland.
The President announced his intention to nominate William Burns to be Assistant Secretary of State for the Near East.
The President announced his intention to nominate Lou Gallegos to be Assistant Secretary of Agriculture for Administration.
The President announced his intention to nominate Powell A. Moore to be Assistant Secretary of Defense for Legislative Affairs.
The President announced his intention to nominate John Charles Weicher to be Assistant Secretary of Housing and Urban Development and serve as Federal Housing Commissioner.
The White House announced that the President added the responsibility of leading the U.S. engagement in support of the Northern Ireland peace process to Richard Haass' February 6 nomination to be Director of Policy and Planning at the State Department.
March 15
In the morning, the President had intelligence and national security briefings.
In the afternoon, the President met separately with World Boxing Association heavyweight champion Johnny Ruiz and National PTA Phoebe Apperson Hearst Outstanding Educator Award winner Katha Black in the Oval Office.
The President announced his intention to nominate Eugene Hickok to be Under Secretary of Education.
March 16
In the afternoon, the President went to Camp David, MD.
The President announced his intention to nominate Samuel W. Bodman to be Deputy Secretary of Commerce.
The President announced his intention to nominate Ann Laine Combs to be Assistant Secretary of Labor.
The President announced his intention to nominate Kathleen B. Cooper to be Under Secretary of Commerce for Economic Affairs.
The White House announced that the President will meet with United Nations Secretary-General Kofi Annan at the White House on March 23.
The White House announced that the President will meet with King Juan Carlos I of Spain on March 28.
The White House announced that the President will travel to Quebec City, Canada, for the third Summit of the Americas on April 20–22.
The White House announced that the President will travel to Japan, South Korea, and China in October.
March 18
In the afternoon, the President and Mrs. Bush returned to Washington, DC.
March 19
In the morning, the President had intelligence and national security briefings. He also had a telephone conversation with King Abdullah II of Jordan, concerning the situation in the Middle East and the Jordan-U.S. free trade agreement.
The President announced his intention to nominate Charles S. Abell to be Assistant Secretary of Defense for Force Management.
The President announced his intention to nominate Maureen Patricia Cragin to be Assistant Secretary of Veterans Affairs for Public and Intergovernmental Affairs.
The President announced his intention to nominate Donald Burnham Ensenat to be Chief of Protocol of the Department of State.
The President announced his intention to nominate Walter Kansteiner to be Assistant Secretary of State for African Affairs.
The President announced his intention to nominate David A. Sampson to be Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Economic Development.
The President announced his intention to nominate David S.C. Chu to be Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness.
The President announced his intention to nominate Mark D. Weinberg to be Assistant Secretary of Housing and Urban Development for Public Affairs.
March 20
In the afternoon, the President traveled to Langley, VA, and later returned to Washington, DC.
The President announced his intention to nominate Peter F. Allgeier to be Deputy U.S. Trade Representative, with the rank of Ambassador.
The President announced his intention to nominate Linnet F. Deily to be Deputy U.S. Trade Representative, with the rank of Ambassador.
March 21
In the morning, the President traveled to Orlando, FL, and in the afternoon, he returned to Washington, DC.
The President announced his intention to nominate Deborah J. Daniels to be Assistant Attorney General for the Office of Justice Programs.
The President announced his intention to nominate Jimmy Gurule to be Under Secretary of the Treasury for Enforcement.
The President announced his intention to nominate Kay Coles James to be Director of the Office of Personnel Management.
The President announced his intention to nominate Timothy J. Muris to be a member of the Federal Trade Commission for a 7-year term beginning September 26, 2001.
The President announced his intention to nominate Susan B. Neuman to be Assistant Secretary of Education for Elementary and Secondary Education.
The President announced his intention to nominate Stephen A. Perry to be Administrator of General Services.
The President announced his intention to nominate Pierre-Richard Prosper to be Ambassador at Large for War Crimes Issues.
The President announced his intention to nominate Francis X. Taylor to be Coordinator for Counterterrorism, with the rank of Ambassador at Large.
The President announced his intention to nominate Robert D. Blackwill to be Ambassador to India.
The President announced his designation of Susan Walthall as Acting Chief Counsel for Advocacy at the Small Business Administration.
The President declared an emergency in Maine and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by record/near record snow on March 5–7.
The President amended the Maine emergency declaration to extend the area struck by record/ near record snow on March 5–7.
March 22
In the morning, the President had intelligence and national security briefings. He also had a telephone conversation with Amir Hamad bin Khalifa Al-Thani of Qatar, to congratulate him on the peaceful settlement of a territorial dispute with Bahrain.
The President announced his intention to nominate Margaret Tutwiler to be Ambassador to Morocco.
The President announced his intention to nominate Eric M. Bost to be Under Secretary of Agriculture for Food, Nutrition, and Consumer Services.
The President announced his intention to nominate Thomas C. Dorr to be Under Secretary of Agriculture for Rural Development.
The President announced his intention to nominate J.B. Penn to be Under Secretary of Agriculture for Farm and Foreign Agriculture Services.
The President announced his intention to nominate Bruce Marshall Carnes to be Chief Financial Officer of the Department of Energy.
The President announced his intention to nominate Jessie Hill Roberson to be Assistant Secretary of Energy for Environmental Management.
The President announced his intention to nominate Thomas Scully to be Administrator of the Health Care Financing Administration.
The President announced his intention to nominate Angela Styles to be Administrator of Federal Procurement Policy at the Office of Management and Budget.
The President announced his intention to nominate Otto J. Reich to be Assistant Secretary of State for Western Hemisphere Affairs.
The White House announced that the President will welcome President Ricardo Lagos of Chile to Washington, DC, for a working visit on April 16.
March 23
In the morning, the President traveled to Portland, ME, and in the afternoon, he returned to Washington, DC.
The President announced his intention to nominate Carol D'Amico to be Assistant Secretary of Education for Vocational and Adult Education.
The President announced his intention to nominate Francis S. Blake to be Deputy Secretary of Energy.
The President announced his intention to nominate Linda J. Fisher to be Deputy Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency.
The President announced his intention to nominate Claude A. Allen to be Deputy Secretary of Health and Human Services.
The President announced his intention to nominate David D. Lauriski to be Assistant Secretary of Labor for Mine Safety and Health.
The President announced his intention to nominate Charlotte L. Beers to be Under Secretary of State for Public Diplomacy.
The President announced his intention to nominate Lorne W. Craner to be Assistant Secretary of State for Democracy, Human Rights, and Labor.
March 26
In the morning, the President traveled to Kansas City, MO, and in the afternoon, he traveled to Billings, MT.
The President announced his intention to nominate J. Richard Blankenship to be Ambassador to the Bahamas.
The President announced his intention to nominate Howard H. Leach to be Ambassador to France.
The President announced his intention to nominate Vicky A. Bailey to be Assistant Secretary of Energy for International Affairs and Domestic Policy.
The President announced his intention to nominate Ronald Rosenfeld to be President of the Government National Mortgage Association.
The President announced his intention to nominate Jon M. Huntsman to be Deputy U.S. Trade Representative.
The President announced his intention to nominate former Senator Howard Baker, Jr., to be Ambassador to Japan.
March 27
In the morning, the President traveled to Kalamazoo, MI, and in the afternoon, he returned to Washington, DC.
The President announced his intention to nominate Nora Mead Brownell to be a Commissioner of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission.
The President announced his intention to nominate Patrick Henry Wood III to be a Commissioner of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission.
The President announced his intention to nominate Clark Kent Ervin to be Inspector General of the Department of State.
The President announced his intention to nominate Leo S. Mackay, Jr., to be Deputy Secretary of Veterans Affairs.
March 28
In the morning, the President had intelligence and national security briefings.
The President announced his intention to nominate Mark B. McClellan to be a member of the Council of Economic Advisers.
The President announced his intention to nominate John E. Robson to be President of the Export-Import Bank.
The President announced his intention to nominate Anna Maria Farias to be Assistant Secretary of Housing and Urban Development for Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity.
The President announced his intention to nominate Earl Floyd Kvamme to be Cochair and member of the President's Committee of Advisers on Science and Technology.
March 29
In the morning, the President had intelligence and national security briefings.
The President announced his intention to nominate Grant D. Aldonas to be Under Secretary of Commerce for International Trade.
The President announced his intention to nominate William Gerry Myers III to be Solicitor of the Department of the Interior.
The President announced his intention to nominate John F. Manning to be Assistant Attorney General for the Office of Legal Counsel.
The President announced his intention to nominate Shinae Chun to be Director of the Women's Bureau of the Department of Labor.
The President announced his intention to nominate Carl W. Ford to be Assistant Secretary of State for Intelligence and Research.
The President announced his intention to nominate Jeanne L. Phillips to be U.S. Representative to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, with the rank of Ambassador.
The President announced the designation of Larry Massanari as Acting Commissioner of the Social Security Administration.
The White House announced that the President will travel to Wilmington, DE, on April 3, and that the President and the First Lady will spend Easter weekend in Crawford, TX.
March 30
In the morning, the President had intelligence and national security briefings. In the afternoon, he went to Camp David, MD.
The President announced his intention to nominate Robin L. Higgins to be Under Secretary of Veterans Affairs for Memorial Affairs.
The President announced his intention to appoint Carlos M. Ramirez as Commissioner of the U.S. Section of the International Boundary and Water Commission for the U.S. and Mexico.
March 31
In the late evening, the President was notified and briefed by National Security Adviser Condoleezza Rice concerning the emergency landing of a U.S. Navy EP–3E Aries II electronic surveillance aircraft with a 24-member crew on China's Hainan Island after a mid-air collision with a Chinese F–8 fighter jet over the South China Sea.
April 1
Throughout the day, the President was updated by National Security Adviser Condoleezza Rice concerning the U.S. Navy aircraft incident.
In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC.
April 2
In the morning, the President had intelligence and national security briefings. He then met with Secretary of State Colin L. Powell, Secretary of Defense Donald H. Rumsfeld, and National Security Adviser Condoleezza Rice, concerning the U.S. Navy aircraft incident.
April 3
In the morning, the President traveled to Wilmington, DE, where he toured the H. Fletcher Brown Boys and Girls Club. In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC.
The President announced his intention to nominate Angela Antonelli to be Chief Financial Officer of the Department of Housing and Urban Development.
The President announced his intention to nominate Brian Jones to be General Counsel at the Department of Education.
The President announced his intention to nominate Bruce P. Mehlman to be Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Technology Policy.
The President announced his intention to nominate Bill Hawks to be Under Secretary of Agriculture for Marketing and Regulatory Programs.
The President announced his intention to nominate James R. Moseley to be Deputy Secretary of Agriculture.
The President announced his intention to nominate Thomas L. Sansonetti to be Assistant Attorney General for the Environmental and Natural Resources Division.
The President announced his intention to nominate Patricia Lynn Scarlett to be Assistant Secretary of the Interior for Policy, Management, and Budget.
The President announced his intention to nominate Allan Rutter to be Administrator of the Federal Railroad Administration.
The President announced the designation of Jonathon Chase as Acting Director of the Community Relations Service.
The President announced the designation of Kevin D. Rooney as Acting Commissioner of Immigration and Naturalization.
The President announced the designation of Kathryn Turman as Acting Director of the Office for Victims of Crime.
April 4
In the morning, the President had intelligence and national security briefings. Also in the morning, the President had separate telephone conversations with President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali of Tunisia and President Ali Abdallah Salih of Yemen.
In the late evening, the President had conversations with Secretary of State Colin L. Powell and National Security Adviser Condoleezza Rice, concerning the U.S. Navy aircraft incident.
The President announced his intention to nominate Robert D. McCallum, Jr., to be Assistant Attorney General for the Civil Division.
The President announced his intention to nominate Paul V. Kelly to be Assistant Secretary of State for Legislative Affairs.
The President announced his intention to nominate Sue Cobb to be Ambassador to Jamaica.
The President announced his intention to nominate Anthony H. Gioia to be Ambassador to Malta.
April 5
In the morning, the President had intelligence and national security briefings. Later, he met with Lt. Gov. Bill Ratliff, State House Speaker James E. "Pete" Laney, State Representative Robert Junell, and State Senator Rodney Ellis of Texas.
The President announced his intention to nominate Joseph J. Jen to be Under Secretary of Agriculture for Research, Education, and Economics.
The President announced his intention to nominate Mary Kirtley Waters to be Assistant Secretary of Agriculture for Congressional Relations.
The President announced his intention to nominate Jeffrey R. Holmstead to be Assistant Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency for Air and Radiation.
The President announced his intention to nominate Eileen J. O'Connor to be Assistant Attorney General for the Tax Division.
The White House announced that the President will visit Poland during his June trip to Europe.
April 6
In the morning, the President had intelligence and national security briefings. He also had telephone conversations with Senator Pete V. Domenici and Senator Trent Lott, to express his thanks and confidence concerning the progress of tax relief legislation.
In the afternoon, the President traveled to Crystal City, VA, and later returned to Washington, DC. Later in the afternoon, the President traveled to Milwaukee, WI, where in the evening, he threw out the first pitch at the Milwaukee Brewers vs. Cincinnati Reds baseball game. He then traveled to Camp David, MD.
The President announced his intention to nominate Douglas Jay Feith to be Under Secretary of Defense for Policy.
The President announced his intention to nominate Kevin J. Martin to be a Commissioner of the Federal Communications Commission.
The President announced his intention to nominate Kathleen Q. Abernathy to be a Commissioner of the Federal Communications Commission.
The President announced his intention to nominate Michael J. Copps to be a Commissioner of the Federal Communications Commission.
The President announced his intention to nominate A. Elizabeth Jones to be Assistant Secretary of State for European Affairs.
The President announced his intention to nominate Thelma J. Askey to be Director of the Trade and Development Agency.
The President announced his intention to nominate Craig Stapleton to be Ambassador to the Czech Republic.
The President announced his intention to nominate Jim Nicholson to be Ambassador to the Holy See.
The White House announced that the President will visit the Organization of American States on April 17 and meet with Secretary General Cesar Gaviria and the members of the Permanent Council.
April 8
In the evening, the President and Mrs. Bush returned to Washington, DC. Later, the President had a telephone conversation with professional golfer Tiger Woods, to congratulate him on winning the Masters golf tournament.
April 9
In the morning, the President met with Secretary of State Colin L. Powell. He then had a telephone conversation with Brig. Gen. Neal Sealock, USA, U.S. Embassy Defense Attache in Beijing, China, concerning the general's fourth meeting with the crew of the U.S. Navy aircraft held in China.
Later in the morning, the President had his official photo with the Cabinet taken in the Oval Office.
In the afternoon, the President met separately with President Robert Kocharian of Armenia and President Heydar Aliyev of Azerbaijan in the Oval Office.
The President announced the naming of Scott
H. Evertz as Director of the Office of National AIDS Policy.
The President announced his intention to nominate Tony Armendariz to be a member of the Federal Labor Relations Authority.
The President announced his intention to nominate Sarah V. Hart to be Director of the National Institute of Justice at the Department of Justice.
The President announced his intention to nominate Shirin Raziuddin Tahir-Kheli to be the
U.S. Representative on the Human Rights Com-mission of the Economic and Social Council of the United Nations.
The President announced his intention to nominate Gordon H. Mansfield to be Assistant Secretary of Veterans Affairs for Congressional Affairs.
The White House announced that the President will meet with Amir Hamad bin Isa Al Khalifa of Bahrain for a working visit on May 7.
April 10
In the morning, the President had intelligence and national security briefings and a briefing on the budget. He also had a telephone conversation with Brig. Gen. Neal Sealock, USA,
U.S. Embassy Defense Attache in Beijing, China, concerning the general's fifth meeting with the crew of the U.S. Navy aircraft held in China.
Later in the morning, the President met with Treasury Secretary Paul H. O'Neill.
April 11
In the morning, the President traveled to Concord, NC, where he toured Concord Middle School. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Greenville, NC, and in the evening, he returned to Washington, DC.
The President announced his intention to nominate Jon A. Hansen to be Administrator of the U.S. Fire Administration.
The President announced his intention to nominate Richard R. Nedelkoff to be Director of the Bureau of Justice Assistance.
April 12
In the afternoon, the President traveled to Crawford, TX.
The President announced his intention to nominate Russell F. Freeman to be Ambassador to Belize.
The President announced his intention to nominate John N. Palmer to be Ambassador to Portugal.
The President announced his intention to nominate Daniel R. Coats to be Ambassador to Germany.
The White House announced that the President contacted Attorney General John Ashcroft concerning recent events in Cincinnati, OH.
April 13
The President announced his intention to nominate Charles A. Heimbold, Jr., to be Ambassador to Sweden.
The White House announced that the President invited President Boris Trajkovski of Macedonia to the White House on May 2.
The White House announced that the President will meet with Prime Minister Rafiq Hariri of Lebanon at the White House on April 24.
April 15
In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC.
April 16
In the morning, the President and Mrs. Bush greeted visitors touring the White House after the Easter egg roll was canceled due to rain.
The President announced his intention to nominate Bennett William Raley to be Assistant Secretary of the Interior for Water and Science.
The President announced the appointment of Attorney General John Ashcroft and Secretary of State Colin L. Powell as members of the James Madison Commemoration Commission.
The White House announced that the President applauded Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Christine Todd Whitman's decision to move forward with pending regulations to protect America's wetlands.
April 17
The President announced his intention to nominate Michael J. Garcia to be Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Export Enforcement.
The President announced his intention to nominate Mary Sheila Gall to be Chairman of the Consumer Product Safety Commission.
The President announced his intention to nominate Anne O. Krueger to be a member of the Council of Economic Advisers.
The President announced his intention to nominate Jack Dyer Crouch II to be Assistant Secretary of Defense for International Security Policy.
The President announced his intention to nominate Russ Whitehurst to be Assistant Secretary of Education for Educational Research and Improvement.
The President announced his intention to nominate David Garman to be Assistant Secretary of Energy for Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy.
The President announced his intention to nominate Neal A. McCaleb to be Assistant Secretary of the Interior for Indian Affairs.
The President announced his intention to nominate Rosario Marin to be Treasurer of the United States.
The President declared a major disaster in Mississippi and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms and flooding on April 3–5.
The White House announced that the President will meet with President Olusegun Obasanjo of Nigeria in Washington for a working visit on May 11.
The White House announced that the President will give commencement addresses at the University of Notre Dame, South Bend, IN, on May 20, and the U.S. Naval Academy, Annapolis, MD, on May 25.
April 18
In the morning, from the Oval Office, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Bulent Ecevit of Turkey.
Later in the morning, the President traveled to Waterbury, CT, where he toured the B.W. Tinker Elementary School. He then traveled to New Britain, CT. In the afternoon, he returned to Washington, DC.
The President announced his intention to nominate George Tracey Mehan III to be Assistant Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency for Water Programs.
The President announced his intention to nominate Eduardo Aguirre, Jr., to be First Vice President of the Export-Import Bank of the United States.
The President announced his intention to nominate Donald E. Powell to be a member and Chairperson of the Board of Directors of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.
The President announced his intention to nominate Robert S. Martin to be Director of the Institute of Museum and Library Services.
The President announced his intention to nominate Alfred Rascon to be Director of the Selective Service System.
The President announced his intention to nominate Christina B. Rocca to be Assistant Secretary of State for South Asian Affairs.
The White House announced that the President will travel to Jacksonville, FL, New Orleans, LA, Little Rock, AR, and Crawford, TX, on April 25; Houston, TX, on April 26, returning to Crawford, TX, in the evening; and Austin, TX, on April 27.
April 19
In the morning, the President had intelligence and national security briefings. He also had a telephone conversation with President Bashar al-Asad of Syria, concerning the situation in Lebanon.
The President announced his intention to nominate Richard A. Hauser to be General Counsel of the Department of Housing and Urban Development.
The President announced his intention to nominate Jennifer L. Dorn to be Federal Transit Administrator at the Department of Transportation.
The President announced his intention to nominate Allen Frederick Johnson to be Chief Agriculture Negotiator for the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative, with the rank of Ambassador.
The White House announced that the President will visit Spain during his June trip to Europe.
April 20
In the morning, the President traveled to Quebec City, Canada.
The President announced his intention to nominate Dan R. Brouillette to be Assistant Secretary of Energy for Congressional and Intergovernmental Affairs.
The President announced his intention to nominate J. Robert Flores to be Administrator of the Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention.
The President announced his intention to nominate Stephen Brauer to be Ambassador to Belgium.
April 22
In the afternoon, the President attended a luncheon with Prime Minister Jean Chretien of Canada and President Vicente Fox of Mexico at the Citadelle.
In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC.
April 23
In the morning, the President had intelligence and national security briefings. He then met with Secretary of State Colin L. Powell.
The President announced his intention to nominate Donald J. McConnell to be Ambassador to Eritrea.
The President announced his intention to nominate Stephen A. Cambone to be Under Secretary of Defense for Policy.
The President announced his intention to nominate Donald Cameron Findlay to be Deputy Secretary of Labor.
The President announced his intention to nominate Lori A. Forman to be Assistant Administrator for the U.S. Agency for International Development for Asia and the Near East.
The White House announced that the President invited President Jorge Batlle of Uruguay to the White House on April 24.
April 24
In the morning, the President had intelligence and national security briefings. Later, he met with Prime Minister Rafiq Hariri of Lebanon in the Oval Office.
In the late afternoon, the President met with President Jorge Batlle of Uruguay in the Oval Office.
The President announced his intention to nominate Richard Henry Jones to be Ambassador to Kuwait.
The President announced his intention to nominate James G. Roche to be Secretary of the Air Force.
The President announced his intention to nominate Thomas E. White to be Secretary of the Army.
The President announced his intention to nominate Gordon England to be Secretary of the Navy.
April 25
In the afternoon, the President traveled to New Orleans, LA, and Little Rock, AR. In the evening, he traveled to Crawford, TX.
The President announced his intention to nominate Bonnie McElveen-Hunter to be Ambassador to Finland.
The President announced his intention to nominate Jacob Lozada to be Assistant Secretary of Veterans Affairs for Human Resources and Administration.
The President announced his intention to nominate Eugene Scalia to be Solicitor of the Department of Labor.
The President announced his intention to nominate Charles J. Swindells to be Ambassador to New Zealand.
The President announced his intention to nominate Stuart Bernstein to be Ambassador to Denmark.
The President announced his intention to nominate George L. Argyros to be Ambassador to Spain and Andorra.
April 26
In the morning, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Ariel Sharon of Israel.
In the afternoon, the President traveled to Houston, TX, and in the evening, he returned to Crawford, TX.
The President announced his intention to nominate Stephen L. Johnson to be Assistant Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency for Prevention, Pesticides, and Toxic Substances.
The White House announced that the President will meet with President Moshe Katsav of Israel for a working visit on May 30.
The President announced his intention to nominate Mercer Reynolds to be Ambassador to Switzerland and Liechtenstein.
April 27
In the morning, the President traveled to Austin, TX, and in the afternoon, he returned to Crawford, TX.
The President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi of Japan, to congratulate him on his election.
The President announced his intention to nominate C. David Welch to be Ambassador to Egypt.
The President announced his intention to nominate Michael K. Powell to be a Commissioner of the Federal Communications Commission.
The President announced his intention to nominate James W. Ziglar to be Commissioner of Immigration and Naturalization.
The President announced his intention to appoint the following individuals to serve as members of the White House Commission on Presidential Scholars:
Bruno V. Manno;
Robert Lewis King;
Jennifer Sandra Carroll;
Lynne Ann Munson;
Lawrence Richard Bearden;
Modesto A. Maidique;
Mary Katherine Turner;
Paul Gust Vallas;
Theodore Martin Hesburgh;
Flo N. Traywick;
Michele M. Ridge;
Virginia Sue Hoffa;
Marcia Jackson;
Manuel Lujan, Jr.;
Elizabeth K. Johnson;
Mary Kramer;
Linda Richey Graves;
Louis Wade Sullivan;
Jean Loretta Becker;
Nancy Ann Hunt;
Stanley E. Taylor;
Shirley Miller;
Glen Thomas Becerra; and
Williamson Evers.
The President declared a major disaster in Kansas and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms, hail, flooding, and tornadoes beginning on April 21 and continuing.
April 28
In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC.
April 30
The President had separate telephone conversations with Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder of Germany, President Jacques Chirac of France, Prime Minister Jean Chretien of Canada, Prime Minister Tony Blair of the United Kingdom, and NATO Secretary General Lord Robertson.
The President announced his intention to nominate Clark T. Randt, Jr., to be Ambassador to China.
May 1
In the morning, the President had intelligence and national security briefings and a budget briefing. He also had a telephone conversation with President Vladimir Putin of Russia, concerning plans for a national missile defense system.
Later in the morning, the President met with members of the Tampa Bay Devil Rays baseball team.
The President announced his intention to nominate Alexander R. Vershbow to be Ambassador to Russia.
The President announced his intention to nominate James Laurence Connaughton to be a member of the Council on Environmental Quality. Upon confirmation, he will be designated Chairman.
The President announced his intention to nominate John W. Gillis to be Director of the Office for Victims of Crime.
May 2
In the morning, the President had intelligence and national security briefings.
In the afternoon, the President met with members of the RespecTeen National Youth Forum at the Dwight D. Eisenhower Executive Office Building. Later, he met with President Boris Trajkovski of the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia in the Oval Office.
The President announced his intention to nominate Hans H. Hertell to be Ambassador to the Dominican Republic.
The President declared a disaster in Iowa and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms, tornadoes, and flooding beginning on April 8 and continuing.
May 3
In the morning, the President met with Foreign Minister Shimon Peres of Israel in the Oval Office. In the afternoon, he met with President Vicente Fox of Mexico in the Oval Office.
The White House announced that the President invited President Vicente Fox of Mexico to the White House for a state visit on September 5–7.
The President announced his intention to nominate Edmund James Hull to be Ambassador to Yemen.
May 4
In the morning, the President had intelligence and national security briefings. Later, he met with Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani of New York City. Later in the morning, he held an interview with Univision.
In the afternoon, the President went to Camp David, MD.
The President announced his intention to nominate Ronald Weiser to be Ambassador to the Slovak Republic.
The President announced his intention to nominate Matt Fong to be Under Secretary of the Army.
May 6
In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC, where he and Mrs. Bush hosted a tee-ball game on the South Lawn.
May 7
In the morning, the President had intelligence and national security briefings. He then met with Secretary of State Colin L. Powell.
May 8
The President announced the nomination of Susan Morrisey Livingstone to be Under Secretary of the Navy.
The President announced his intention to nominate William Henry Lash III to be Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Market Access Compliance.
May 9
In the morning, the President had intelligence and national security briefings. Later, he dropped by a meeting between National Security Adviser Condoleezza Rice and President Vojislav Kostunica of Yugoslavia.
The President announced his intention to nominate Vincent Martin Battle to be Ambas­sador to Lebanon.
The President announced his intention to nominate Representative Asa Hutchinson to be Administrator of the Drug Enforcement Administration at the Department of Justice.
The President announced his intention to nominate Brian Carlton Roseboro to be Assistant Secretary of the Treasury for Financial Markets.
The White House announced that the President will travel to Philadelphia, PA, on May 14.
May 10
In the morning, the President had intelligence and national security briefings.
In the afternoon, the President traveled to Vienna, VA, and later, he returned to Washington, DC.
The President declared a major disaster in Illinois and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by flooding beginning on April 18 and continuing.
May 11
In the morning, the President had intelligence and national security briefings.
In the afternoon, the President met with MATHCOUNTS 2001 national champions and their coaches in the Roosevelt Room. Later, he went to Camp David, MD.
The President declared a major disaster in Wisconsin and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by flooding and severe storms on April 10 and continuing.
May 13
In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC.
May 14
In the morning, the President traveled to Philadelphia, PA, where he met with Anthony Cardinal Bevilacqua. In the afternoon, he returned to Washington, DC.
The President announced his intention to nominate R. Barrie Walkley to be Ambassador to Guinea.
The President announced his intention to nominate Peter W. Rodman to be Assistant Secretary of Defense for International Security Affairs.
May 15
The President announced his intention to nominate Marvin R. Sambur to be Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Acquisition, Research, and Development.
May 16
In the morning, the President had intelligence and national security briefings.
The President announced his intention to nominate P.H. Johnson to be Federal Cochair-person of the Delta Regional Authority.
The President announced his intention to nominate Joseph M. DeThomas to be Ambassador to Estonia.
The President announced his intention to nominate Theodore H. Kattouf to be Ambassador to Syria.
The President announced his intention to nominate Maureen Quinn to be Ambassador to Qatar.
The President announced his intention to nominate Arlene Render to be Ambassador to Cote d'Ivoire.
The President announced his intention to nominate Marcelle Wahba to be Ambassador to the United Arab Emirates.
The President designated John E. Higgins as Acting General Counsel of the National Labor Relations Board.
The President designated Peter J. Hurtgen as Chairman of the National Labor Relations Board.
The President declared a major disaster in Maine and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe winter storms and flooding on March 5–31.
The President declared a major disaster in Minnesota and order Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe winter storms, flooding, and tornadoes beginning on March 23 and continuing.
The President declared a major disaster in Nebraska and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe winter storms, flooding, and tornadoes on April 10–23.
The President declared a major disaster in Puerto Rico and ordered Federal aid to supplement Commonwealth and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms, flooding, and mudslides beginning on May 6 and continuing.
May 17
In the morning, the President traveled to St. Paul, MN, and in the afternoon, he traveled to Nevada, IA. In the evening, he returned to Washington, DC.
The President announced his intention to appoint the following individuals as Governors on the Board of Governors of the American National Red Cross:
David Thomas McLaughlin;
Anthony Joseph Principi;
Donald Louis Evans;
Richard Lee Armitage;
Tommy G. Thompson;
Roderick R. Paige;
Joe M. Allbaugh; and
Gen. Henry H. Shelton.
The President declared a major disaster in South Dakota and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe winter storms, flooding, and ice jams on March 1–April 30.
The President declared a major disaster in Colorado and order Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe winter storms on April 11–22.
May 18
In the morning, the President traveled to Conestoga, PA, and in the afternoon, he returned to Washington, DC.
The President announced his intention to nominate R. Nicholas Burns to be the U.S. Permanent Representative to the Council of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, with the rank of Ambassador.
The President designated Frank D. Yturria to be Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Inter-American Foundation.
The President designated Patricia Hill Williams to be Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Inter-American Foundation.
The White House announced that the President will visit Slovenia in June.
May 20
In the morning, the President traveled to Notre Dame, IN, and in the afternoon, he returned to Washington, DC.
May 21
In the morning, the President traveled to New Haven, CT, and in the afternoon, he returned to Washington, DC.
The President announced his intention to nominate John Price to be Ambassador to Mauritius.
May 22
In the morning, the President had intelligence and national security briefings.
Also in the morning, the President had separate telephone conversations with President Hosni Mubarak of Egypt and King Abdullah II of Jordan, to discuss the Report of the Sharm el-Sheikh Fact-Finding Committee, chaired by former Senator George J. Mitchell, issued April 30, and the situation in the Middle East.
In the afternoon, the President met with Senator James M. Jeffords in the Oval Office.
The President announced his intention to nominate Wendy J. Chamberlin to be Ambassador to Pakistan.
The President announced his intention to appoint Charles Blahous III as Executive Director of the President's Commission To Strengthen Social Security.
May 23
In the morning, the President had separate telephone conversations with Chairman Yasser Arafat of the Palestinian Authority and Prime Minister Ariel Sharon of Israel, to discuss the Mitchell report and the situation in the Middle East. Later, the President met with the Dalai Lama in the Oval Office.
The President announced his intention to nominate Nancy Goodman Brinker to be Ambassador to Hungary.
The President announced his intention to nominate Douglas Alan Hartwick to be Ambassador to Laos.
The President announced his intention to nominate Alberto Jose Mora to be General Counsel of the Department of the Navy.
The President announced his intention to nominate Everet Beckner to be Deputy Administrator for Defense Programs at the Department of Energy.
The President announced his intention to nominate Thomas C. Hubbard to be Ambassador to South Korea.
May 24
In the morning, the President traveled to Cleveland, OH, and in the afternoon, he returned to Washington, DC.
The President announced his intention to nominate Albert E. Smith to be Under Secretary of the Air Force.
The President announced his intention to nominate Michael Montelongo to be Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Financial Management.
The President announced his intention to nominate Steven John Morello, Sr., to be General Counsel of the Department of the Army.
The President announced his intention to nominate James Edward Rogan to be Under Secretary of Commerce for Intellectual Property and Director of the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office.
The White House announced that the President will meet with President Thabo Mbeki of South Africa at the White House for a working visit on June 26.
May 25
In the morning, the President had a telephone conversation with President Vicente Fox of Mexico, to express condolences concerning the deaths of 14 Mexicans in the Arizona desert earlier in the week. Later, he traveled to Annapolis, MD.
In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC, and later went to Camp David, MD.
The President announced his intention to nominate Thomas P. Christie to be Director of Operational Test and Evaluation at the Department of Defense.
The President announced his intention to nominate Dennis P. Coleman to be Ambassador to Luxembourg.
The President announced his intention to nominate Lyons Brown Jr., to be Ambassador to Austria.
The President announced his intention to nominate Daniel Charles Kurtzer to be Ambassador to Israel.
The President announced his intention to nominate Arthur F. Rosenfeld to be General Counsel of the National Labor Relations Board.
The President announced the appointment of the following individuals as members of the Federal Home Mortgage Corporation:
William Dodd Powers;
Cesar Benito Cabrera;
David James Gribbin III;
Catherine Lynn Stepp; and
Michelle Engler.
May 26
In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC.
May 28
In the morning, the President traveled to Arlington, VA, and in the afternoon, he returned to Washington, DC. Later, he traveled to Mesa, AZ, and Los Angeles, CA.
May 29
In the morning, the President traveled to Camp Pendleton, CA.
In the afternoon, the President returned to Los Angeles, CA, where he met with Gov. Gray Davis of California at the Century Plaza Hotel & Spa to discuss California's energy shortage.
In the evening, the President traveled to Sequoia National Park, CA.
The President announced his intention to nominate Rebecca O. Campoverde to be Assistant Secretary of Education for Legislative and Congressional Affairs.
The President announced his intention to nominate Henrietta Holsman Fore to be Director of the Mint.
The President announced his intention to nominate Dionel M. Aviles to be Assistant Secretary of the Navy for Financial Management.
The President announced his intention to nominate William A. Eaton to be Assistant Secretary of State for Administration.
The White House announced that the President will meet with Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi of Japan for a working visit in Washington, DC, on June 30.
May 30
In the morning, the President returned to Washington, DC, arriving in the evening.
The President announced his intention to nominate George G. Williams to be Assistant Secretary of the Army for Acquisition, Logistics, and Technology.
The President announced his intention to nominate Otto Wolff to be Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Administration and Chief Financial Officer of the Department of Commerce.
The President announced his intention to nominate Linda Mysliwy Conlin to be Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Trade and Development.
The President announced his intention to nominate Michael W. Wynne to be Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Technology.
The President announced his intention to nominate Diane K. Morales to be Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Logistics and Materiel Readiness.
The President announced his intention to nominate William A. Navas, Jr., to be Assistant Secretary of the Navy for Manpower and Reserve Affairs.
The President announced his intention to nominate Robert C. Bonner to be Commissioner of Customs at the Department of the Treasury.
The President announced that he has designated Edward F. Reilly as Chairman of the
U.S. Parole Commission.
The White House announced that the President will travel to Boston, MA, to attend funeral services for Representative John Joseph Moakley on June 1.
May 31
In the morning, the President met with President Moshe Katsav of Israel in the Oval Office.
The President made additional disaster assistance available to North Dakota for rebuilding public facilities damaged by severe storms, flooding, and ground saturation on April 5–Au-gust 12, 2000.
The President announced his intention to nominate Alex Azar II to be General Counsel of the Department of Health and Human Services.
The President announced his intention to nominate Theresa Alvillar-Speake to be Director of the Office of Minority Economic Impact in the Department of Energy.
The President announced his intention to nominate Sharee M. Freeman to be Director of the Community Relations Service in the Department of Justice.
The President announced his intention to nominate Bruce Cole to be Chairperson of the National Endowment for the Humanities.
The President announced his intention to nominate Roger Francisco Noriega to be U.S. Permanent Representative to the Organization of American States, with the rank of Ambassador.
The President announced his intention to nominate Ross J. Connelly to be Executive Vice President of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation.
The President announced his intention to nominate Patricia deStacy Harrison to be Assistant Secretary of State for Educational and Cultural Affairs.
The President announced his intention to nominate Kirk Van Tine to be General Counsel of the Department of Transportation.
The President announced his intention to nominate Ellen G. Engleman to be Administrator of the Research and Special Programs Administration at the Department of Transportation.
The President announced his intention to nominate Sheila C. Bair to be Assistant Secretary of the Treasury for Financial Institutions.
June 1
In the morning, the President traveled to Boston, MA, where he attended funeral services for Representative John Joseph Moakley. Later, he returned to Washington, DC.
In the afternoon, the President went to Camp David, MD.
The President announced his intention to nominate Juan Carlos Benitez to be Special Counsel for Immigration-Related Unfair Employment Practices.
The President announced his intention to nominate Janet Rehnquist to be Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services.
The President announced his intention to nominate Carole L. Brookins to be U.S. Executive Director of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development.
June 3
In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC. He and Mrs. Bush then hosted a tee-ball game on the South Lawn.
June 4
In the morning, the President traveled to Everglades National Park, FL.
In the afternoon, the President traveled to Miami, FL, where he met with Most Rev. John Clement Favalora, Archbishop of Miami. Later, he traveled to Tampa, FL.
The President announced his intention to nominate Laurie Rich to be Assistant Secretary of Education for Intergovernmental and Interagency Affairs.
The President announced his intention to nominate Patrick M. Cronin to be Assistant Administrator of the U.S. Agency for International Development for Policy and Program Coordination.
The President declared a major disaster in West Virginia and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms, flooding, and landslides beginning on May 15 and continuing.
June 5
In the morning, the President returned to Washington, DC.
June 6
In the morning, the President traveled to Bedford, VA, and in the afternoon, he returned to Washington, DC.
The President announced his intention to nominate Patrick Francis Kennedy to be U.S. Representative to the United Nations for U.N. Management and Reform, with the rank of Ambassador.
The President announced his intention to appoint John V. Cogbill III as a member of the National Capital Planning Commission and, upon appointment, to designate him as Chairman.
June 7
In the morning, the President participated in a telephone interview with the Omaha World-Herald from the Oval Office.
The President announced his intention to nominate J. Thomas Schieffer to be Ambassador to Australia.
The President announced his intention to nominate Nancy Jo Powell to be Ambassador to Ghana.
The President announced his intention to nominate Thomas J. Miller to be Ambassador to Greece.
The President announced his intention to nominate Michael E. Guest to be Ambassador to Romania.
The President announced his intention to nominate Laura E. Kennedy to be Ambassador to Turkmenistan.
The President announced his intention to nominate Michael Parker to be Assistant Secretary of the Army for Civil Works.
The President announced his intention to nominate Reginald Jude Brown to be Assistant Secretary of the Army for Manpower and Reserve Affairs.
The President announced his intention to nominate John P. Stenbit to be Assistant Secretary of Defense for Command, Control, Communications, and Intelligence.
The President announced his intention to nominate Ronald M. Sega to be Director of Defense Research and Engineering.
The President announced his intention to nominate Josefina Carbonell to be Assistant Secretary of Health and Human Services for Aging.
The President announced his intention to nominate Kevin Kennedy to be Assistant Administrator of the U.S. Agency for International Development for the Bureau of Humanitarian Response.
The President announced his intention to nominate Judith Elizabeth Ayres to be Assistant Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency for International Activities.
The President announced his intention to nominate Jo Anne Barnhart to be a Commissioner of Social Security.
The President announced his intention to nominate Claude M. Kicklighter to be Assistant Secretary of Veterans Affairs for Policy and Planning.
The White House announced that the President has invited President John Agyekum Kufuor of Ghana, President Abdoulaye Wade of Senegal, and President Alpha Oumar Konare of Mali to the Oval Office for a working visit on June 28.
June 8
In the morning, the President traveled to Dallas Center, IA. Later, he traveled to Omaha, NE, where he threw the first pitch at the College World Series Game 1.
In the afternoon, the President traveled to Crawford, TX.
The President announced his intention to nominate Susan Schmidt Bies to be a member of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System.
The White House announced that the President will meet with President Miguel Angel Rodriguez of Costa Rica on July 13.
The White House announced that the President will meet with President Alfonso Portillo of Guatemala at the White House on July 5.
The White House announced that the President will meet with Prime Minister Chok Tong Goh of Singapore on June 11.
June 9
The White House announced that the President declared a major disaster in Texas and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by Tropical Storm Allison beginning on June 5 and continuing.
June 10
In the morning, the President returned to Washington, DC.
In the afternoon, the President and Mrs. Bush hosted a White House reception for the Ford's Theatre gala on the State Floor at the White House.
In the evening, the President and Mrs. Bush attended the Ford's Theatre gala at Ford's Theatre.
June 11
In the morning, the President met with Prime Minister Goh Chok Tong of Singapore in the Oval Office.
In the evening, the President and Mrs. Bush traveled to Madrid, Spain, arriving the following morning.
The President announced his intention to nominate Franklin L. Lavin to be Ambassador to Singapore.
The President announced his intention to nominate Aubrey Hooks to be Ambassador to the Democratic Republic of Congo.
The President declared a major disaster in Louisiana and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by Tropical Storm Allison beginning on June 5 and continuing.
The White House announced that the President will welcome Prime Minister John Howard of Australia to Washington, DC, on September 10.
June 12
In the morning, the President and Mrs. Bush met with King Juan Carlos I, Queen Sofia, and Crown Prince Felipe of Spain at Zarzuela Palace.
In the afternoon, the President traveled to Quintos de Mora, Spain, where he met with President Jose Maria Aznar of Spain at his private residence. Later, the President returned to Madrid.
June 13
In the morning, the President and Mrs. Bush traveled to Brussels, Belgium. While en route aboard Air Force One, the President had a telephone conversation with Central Intelligence Agency Director George J. Tenet, to congratulate him on his efforts concerning the Middle East cease-fire.
In the afternoon, the President met with U.S. diplomats, military personnel, and their families at the Brussels American School. Later, the President and Mrs. Bush met with King Albert II and Queen Paola of Belgium at the Royal Palace of Laeken.
The President announced his intention to nominate Daniel R. Levinson to be Inspector General for the General Services Administration.
The President announced his intention to nominate John Lester Henshaw to be Assistant Secretary of Labor for Occupational Safety and Health.
The President announced his intention to nominate John J. Young to be Assistant Secretary of the Navy for Research, Development, and Acquisition.
June 14
In the morning, the President met with Prime Minister Guy Verhofstadt of Belgium at Lambermont. Later, the President and Mrs. Bush traveled to Go¨teborg, Sweden.
In the evening, the President and Mrs. Bush met with King Carl XVI Gustaf, Queen Silvia, and Crown Princess Victoria of Sweden at the Residence.
Later in the evening, the President attended a reception and dinner for European Union Summit leaders at the Borsen Stock Exchange.
The President announced his intention to nominate Jackson McDonald to be Ambassador to Gambia.
June 15
In the morning, the President and Mrs. Bush traveled to Warsaw, Poland.
In the afternoon, the President met with Prime Minister Jerzy Buzek of Poland at the Palace on the Water in Lazienki Park. Later, he participated in a wreath-laying ceremony at the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier.
The President announced his intention to nominate Joseph Gerard Sullivan to be Ambassador to Zimbabwe.
The President announced his intention to nominate John W. Keys to be Commissioner of Reclamation at the Department of the Interior.
The President announced his intention to nominate Jose A. Fourquet to be U.S. Executive Director of the Inter-American Development Bank.
The President announced his intention to nominate the following individuals as members of the President's Commission on White House Fellowships:
Brad Freeman (Chairman);
James E. Bostic, Jr.;
Paul W. Brooks;
Gilberto Cardenas;
Martha Chayet;
Ben Crenshaw;
Robert M. Duncan;
Clayton Fong;
Valde Garcia;
Phillip J. Montante, Jr.;
Patrick F. Noonan;
Alan Novak;
Paul Simon;
Rosemarie Avila;
Fred Carter;
Olden Lee;
William McGurn;
Marcia Jackson;
Angela Antonelli;
Bruno V. Manno;
Jimmy Gurule;
Manuel Lujan, Jr.; and
Lawrence Richard Bearden.
The President announced his intention to appoint the following individuals as members of the Commission on Ocean Policy:
Robert Ballard;
James D. Watkins;
Paul L. Kelly;
Ted A. Beattie;
Lawrence Dickerson;
Marc J. Hershman;
Ed Rasmuson;
Christopher Koch;
Paul G. Gaffney;
Andrew A. Rosenberg;
James M. Coleman;
Paul A. Sandifer;
William D. Ruckelshaus;
Ann D'Amato;
Frank Muller-Karger; and
Lilliam Barrone.
The President announced his intention to designate J. Timothy O'Neill as Chairman of the Federal Housing Finance Board.
The White House announced that the President will travel to Genoa, Italy, to attend the G–7/8 Summit on July 20–22.
June 16
In the morning, the President and Mrs. Bush traveled to Kranj, Slovenia. In the evening, they returned to Washington, DC.
June 18
In the morning, the President had intelligence and national security briefings. He then dropped by a meeting between National Security Adviser Condoleezza Rice and Minister of Foreign Affairs Makiko Tanaka of Japan. Later, he met with Secretary of State Colin L. Powell.
Also in the morning, the President had separate telephone conversations with Prime Minister Tony Blair of the United Kingdom, President Jose Maria Aznar of Spain, and President Aleksander Kwasniewski of Poland, concerning President Bush's June 16 meeting with President Vladimir Putin of Russia.
The President also had a briefing by White House Counsel Alberto R. Gonzales, concerning possible grounds for clemency in the case of Juan Raul Garza, who was scheduled to be executed by the State of Texas on June 19.
The President announced his intention to nominate Joseph E. Schmitz to be Inspector General of the Department of Defense.
The President announced his intention to nominate Jeffrey William Runge to be Administrator of the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration.
The President announced the designation of Warren L. Miller as Chairman of the Commission for the Preservation of America's Heritage Abroad.
The White House announced that the President declared a major disaster in Florida and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by Tropical Storm Allison on June 11–15.
June 19
In the morning, the President had intelligence and national security briefings. He then traveled to Arlington, VA, and later returned to Washington, DC.
The President announced his intention to nominate Johnny Young to be Ambassador to Slovenia.
The President announced his intention to nominate John J. Danilovich to be Ambassador to Costa Rica.
The President announced his intention to nominate Martin J. Silverstein to be Ambassador to Uruguay.
The White House announced that the President announced the appointment of Stephen E. Biegun as Executive Secretary of the National Security Council.
June 20
In the morning, from the Oval Office, the President had separate telephone conversations with Prime Minister Ariel Sharon of Israel and President Hosni Mubarak of Egypt.
In the afternoon, from the Oval Office, the President had a telephone conversation with Chairman Yasser Arafat of the Palestinian Authority.
Later, in a ceremony in the Oval Office, the President received diplomatic credentials from Ambassadors Josefina Pitra Diakite of Angola, Lalit Mansingh of India, Ignacio Arcaya of Venezuela, Girma Asmeron Tesfai of Eritrea, Ahmad Tariq Karim of Bangladesh, Fatos Tarifa of Albania, Sorin Ducaru of Romania, Linn Myaing of Burma, and Shavkat Khamrakulov of Uzbekistan.
The President announced his intention to nominate Hilton Lewis Root to be U.S. Director of the Asian Development Bank, with the rank of Ambassador.
The President announced his intention to nominate Christopher William Dell to be Ambassador to Angola.
The President announced his intention to nominate Michael L. Dominguez to be Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Manpower and Reserve Affairs.
The President announced his intention to nominate Nelson F. Gibbs to be Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Installations and Environment.
The President announced his intention to nominate Claude B. Hutchinson, Jr., to be Assistant Secretary of Veterans Affairs for Management.
June 21
In the morning, the President had intelligence and national security briefings. Later, he met with members of the Chicago White Sox baseball team.
In the afternoon, the President traveled to Birmingham, AL, where he toured a YMCA day camp. In the evening, the President traveled to Crawford, TX.
The President announced his intention to nominate Peter Russell Chaveas to be Ambassador to Sierra Leone.
The President announced his intention to nominate Hilda Gay Legg to be Administrator of the Rural Utilities Service in the Department of Agriculture.
The President announced his intention to nominate Mark Edward Rey to be Under Secretary of Agriculture for Natural Resources and Environment.
The President announced his intention to nominate Nancy Victory to be Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Communications and Information.
The President announced his intention to nominate Robert Pasternack to be Assistant Secretary of Special Education and Rehabilitative Services at the Department of Education.
The President announced his intention to nominate Joanne M. Wilson to be Commissioner of the Rehabilitative Services Administration at the Department of Education.
The President announced his intention to nominate Marianne Lamont Horinko to be Assistant Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency for the Office of Solid Waste.
The President announced his intention to nominate Kenneth M. Donohue, Sr., to be Inspector General at the Department of Housing and Urban Development.
The President announced his intention to nominate Michael Minoru Fawn Liu to be Assistant Secretary of Housing and Urban Development for Public and Indian Housing.
The President announced his intention to nominate Emily Stover DeRocco to be Assistant Secretary of Labor for Employment and Training.
The White House announced that the President declared a major disaster in Mississippi and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by Tropical Storm Allison on June 6–13.
June 22
The President announced his intention to nominate Edward William Gnehm, Jr., to be Ambassador to Jordan.
The President announced his intention to nominate Larry C. Napper to be Ambassador to Kazakhstan.
The President announced his intention to nominate Frank Huddle, Jr., to be Ambassador to Tajikistan.
The White House announced that the President declared a major disaster in Pennsylvania and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by Tropical Storm Allison on June 15–17.
June 25
In the morning, the President traveled to Detroit, MI, and in the afternoon, he returned to Washington, DC.
The President announced his intention to nominate John H. Marburger III to be Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy.
The President announced his intention to nominate Gerald Reynolds to be Assistant Secretary of Education for Civil Rights.
June 26
In the morning, the President had intelligence and national security briefings.
In the afternoon, the President met with President-elect Alejandro Toledo of Peru in the National Security Adviser's office.
The White House announced that the President will welcome President Abdelaziz Bouteflika of Algeria to the White House on July 12.
The President announced his intention to nominate John Malcolm Ordway to be Ambassador to Armenia.
The President announced his intention to nominate Brian Carlson to be Ambassador to Latvia.
The President announced his intention to nominate Marion Blakey to be a member of the National Transportation Safety Board and, upon confirmation, to be designated Chairman.
The President announced his intention to nominate John Arthur Hammerschmidt to be a member of the National Transportation Safety Board.
June 27
In the morning, the President had intelligence and national security briefings, as well as domestic and economic policy briefings. Also in the morning, he had a telephone conversation with Senate Majority Leader Thomas A. Daschle, concerning the scheduling of defense supplemental appropriations legislation.
The President announced his intention to nominate Donald R. Schregardus to be Assistant Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency for Enforcement and Compliance Assurance.
The President announced his intention to nominate H.T. Johnson to be Assistant Secretary of the Navy for Installations and Environment.
The President announced his intention to nominate the following individuals to be Commissioners of the U.S. Parole Commission: Gilbert Gallegos, Henry Hart, Cranston J. Miller, and Marie F. Ragghianti.
June 28
In the morning, the President had intelligence and national security briefings.
In the afternoon, the President met with President John Agyekum Kufuor of Ghana, President Alpha Oumar Konare of Mali, and President Abdoulaye Wade of Senegal in the Oval Office.
June 29
In the morning, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Bertie Ahern of Ireland, to discuss the situation in Northern Ireland. Also in the morning, he had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Tony Blair of the United Kingdom, to discuss Northern Ireland, Macedonia, and the Middle East.
In the afternoon, the President and Mrs. Bush went to Camp David, MD.
The President announced his intention to nominate Randal Quarles to be U.S. Executive Director of the International Monetary Fund.
The President announced his intention to nominate Nils J. Diaz to be a member of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission.
The President announced his intention to appoint Secretary of Transportation Norman Y. Mineta as a member of the Amtrak Reform Board.
The White House announced that the President declared a major disaster in Oklahoma and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms, flooding, and tornadoes on May 27–30.
  