
    Pool Reports by Nikki Schwab, Daily Mail 



Sent:
Reports:




June 21, 202108:34

White House Pool Report No. 1 - meeting participants 
Good morning - I'll be your print pooler for today.
From a White House official:
This afternoon, the President will meet with lead financial regulators for an update on the state of the country's financial system and institutions in the Oval Office. Meeting participants include:
Secretary Janet Yellen, Secretary of the TreasuryJerome Powell, Chair of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve SystemRostin Behnam, Acting Chairman of the Commodity Futures Trading CommissionGary Gensler, Chair of the U.S. Securities and Exchange CommissionDave Uejio, Acting Director of the Consumer Financial Protection BureauJelena McWilliams, Chairman of the Federal Deposit Insurance CorporationMichael Hsu, Acting Comptroller of the Currency



June 21, 202111:39

White House Pool Report No. 2 - 1 p.m. briefing 
The press briefing will now be held at 1 p.m.



June 21, 202113:04

White House Pool Report No. 3 - 2 minute warning 
There's a 2 minute warning for the briefing.



June 21, 202114:01

White House Pool Report No. 4 - briefing concludes 
The briefing started at 1:06 p.m.
It wrapped at 2 p.m.



June 21, 202114:46

White House Pool Report No. 5 - lid! 
The White House called a travel/photo lid at 2:44 p.m.
Have a great afternoon on this first day of summer!



June 21, 202115:23

White House Pool Report No. 6 - recorded remarks tonight 
The White House passes this along -
Today, President Biden will deliver recorded remarks to the National Poor People's & Low-Wage Workers' Assembly, an online gathering by the Poor People's Campaign's, over 40 state coordinating committees, 200+ organizing partners, and thousands of moral and faith leaders from the Poor People's Campaign's Prophetic Council. The event, taking place from 5-7 PM ET, will focus on creating a national stage for the voices and leadership of people directly impacted by systemic injustice. It is happening the same day as the President's Child Tax Credit Awareness Day, which will be highlighted during the virtual assembly.



June 21, 202121:04

White House Pool Report No. 7 - Manchin, Sinema meetings
Passing this along -From a White House Official:
This afternoon, the President hosted Senator Manchin for a meeting at the White House where they discussed their shared commitment to voting rights. The President expressed his sincere appreciation for Senator Manchin's efforts to achieve reform. The President conveyed that he sees voting rights as one of the most urgent issues facing our nation during his administration, and made it clear how important he thinks it is that the Senate find a path forward on this issue. They also discussed bipartisan negotiations on infrastructure.
Later in the afternoon, the President also hosted Senator Sinema for a discussion about the bipartisan infrastructure negotiations. The President thanked each Senator for their engagement toward making historic investments in economic growth, middle class jobs, and the clean energy economy, and told them he was encouraged by what has taken shape but that he still has questions about the policy as well as the means for financing the bipartisan group's proposal. The President also made clear that he is at the same time focused on budget resolution discussions in the Senate. And they agreed to stay in touch over the coming days.




  