
    To the Congress of the United States:
As required by Public Law 94-104, this report describes what has occurred during the last sixty days toward settlement of the Cyprus problem and the efforts the Administration has made toward that goal.
In my last report, I promised to work closely with the Congress on this problem, and to devote whatever effort might be required to bring about a truly just and lasting peace in Cyprus. I emphasized as well the importance of continuing to strengthen the ties of friendship and cooperation between the United States and Greece and Turkey, our two major allies in the eastern Mediterranean.
Since my last report on April 15, there have been only a few significant developments with regard to Cyprus. This pause is to some extent a reflection of understandable preoccupation of the parties with the Turkish national elections of June 5. Even so, talks between the two Cyprus communities took place in Nicosia in late May and early June. These discussions allowed some clarification of the positions presented during the' earlier meetings in Vienna which had taken place under the chairmanship of the United Nations Secretary General. The United Nations Security Council authorized a further six-month extension of the mandate of the United Nations Peacekeeping Force on Cyprus (UNFICYP) on June 15, and we expect that the negotiating process will resume at an early date between the two Cypriot communities.
I would add that while I was in London in conjunction with the NATO Summit meeting in May, I met separately with the Greek and Turkish Prime Ministers. Secretary Vance, National Security Advisor Brzezinski and the Special Representative for eastern Mediterranean matters, Clark Clifford, were also present. I used the opportunity for a brief discussion of the Cyprus problem as well as a review of other elements of our relationship with these two valued NATO allies. Mr. Clifford also had separate discussions with both Prime Minister Caramanlis and Prime Minister Demirel. I believe both governments now appreciate the depth of our interest and determination to assist in achieving a lasting Cyprus settlement.
We intend to work actively during the summer months and into the fall toward this end. I would hope it will soon be possible in these periodic reports to Congress to record real progress toward the just and lasting Cyprus settlement which the United States seeks.
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
June 22, 1977.
  