
    Your Majesties, Your Excellencies, distinguished guests, friends of Spain and the United States:
We thank you very much, Your Majesty, for your very kind words and your thoughtfulness on behalf of Mrs. Ford and myself and the American people.
Mrs. Ford and I are deeply honored and very pleased to join you here in your embassy this evening and to enjoy your gracious hospitality and the unique gifts of the Spanish culinary art.
Spain contributed much, as we all know, to the building of our country and our cultural heritage. The 16 States that you mentioned are deeply indebted to their Spanish background. Those of us who were not fortunate enough to come from those 16 States feel somewhat neglected. [Laughter]
Explorers from your country, Your Majesty, sailing under the Spanish flag discovered this continent. Among the people of Europe who risked their lives to come to the aid of our newborn Republic were gallant Spanish soldiers as well as Spanish sailors. The early Spanish explorers left a very deep and permanent cultural imprint on America. They brought printing presses and universities to the New World.
We see the Spanish heritage in St. Augustine, the oldest permanent European settlement in America, in countless missions in the Southwestern part of our country, in regional festivals and, yes, even in rodeos. Spanish influence is reflected in our culture and even the common law of some of our Southwestern American States. Throughout America millions of citizens speak the Spanish language. Many of our television and radio stations transmit the language as well as the heritage of Spain.
In this century, for nearly 25 years Spain and the United States have stood together to meet the challenges confronting the Western World. We have built a strong and very harmonious relationship. The importance of our relationship, I think, is reflected in the recently concluded Treaty of Friendship and Cooperation. This treaty recognizes the important contributions of Spain to the defense of the West. It opens the way to the improved defenses and our cooperation between ourselves.
This treaty also marks the increasing cooperation between the Spanish and the American peoples in a growing number of fields ranging from urban development to energy to the arts to agriculture as well as to education.
As we pay tribute to the past and to the present, we look to the future. In man's exploration of the unknown we have moved from the age of the sail and horseback to the age of space.
Your Majesty's interest in America's space program is well know by all of us in our country. It is indicative not only of the common interests that we share but of the forward-looking qualities you have brought to the leadership of Spain. These qualities will serve both of our countries very well.
And let us build on our bilateral relationships and work together to increase the ties of friendship as well as cooperation between the United States and Spain.
I have no doubt of the increasingly important role Spain will play in the world and particularly in the West. Spain is a part, geographically as well as historically, of Europe and the transatlantic community.
Your Majesty, in your remarks upon arrival at the White House yesterday you expressed the wish that your visit would contribute to reinforcing the bonds of friendship between us for the food of our two countries and all those who aspire to obtain the ideals of faith, freedom, and justice. Speaking for all here, I would assure you beyond any doubt that your wish has been realized. Our discussions at the White House, your address to the United States Congress, and your participation, together with your gracious Queen, in our Bicentennial celebration has marked improvement, has significantly improved and helped immeasurably and is a milestone in the relations between our two countries.
We wish you well as you continue your visit tomorrow to New York City, and we look forward to your next visit to Washington, which we hope and trust will be very soon.
Your Majesties, I propose a toast to you and to all of the Spanish people and to our continuing friendship and good relations.
  