
    To the Congress of the United States:
I am pleased to transmit to the Congress, pursuant to Section 123d of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended (42 U.S.C. 2153(d) ), the text of the proposed Agreement Between the United States and the Kingdom of Morocco Concerning Peaceful Uses of Nuclear Energy, together with an accompanying agreed minute, my written approval, authorization and determination concerning the agreement, and the memorandum of the Director of the United States Arms Control and Disarmament Agency with the Nuclear Proliferation Assessment Statement concerning the agreement. The joint memorandum submitted to me by the Secretaries of State and Energy, which includes a summary analysis of the provisions of the agreement, and the views of the Director of the United States Arms Control and Disarmament Agency and of the Members of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission are also enclosed.
The Nuclear Non-Proliferation Act of 1978, which I signed into law on March 10, 1978, establishes certain requirements for new agreements for cooperation. In my judgment, the proposed agreement for cooperation between the United States and the Kingdom of Morocco, together with its agreed minute, meets all statutory requirements.
The Kingdom of Morocco is a strong supporter of the Non-Proliferation Treaty, having ratified it on November 27, 1970, and of international non-proliferation efforts generally. The proposed agreement reflects the desire of the Government of the United States and the Government of the Kingdom of Morocco to begin peaceful nuclear cooperation in a manner that recognizes both the shared non-proliferation objectives and the generally close relationship between our two countries. The proposed agreement will, in my view, further the non-proliferation and other foreign policy interests of the United States.
I have considered the views and recommendations of the interested agencies in reviewing the proposed agreement and have determined that its performance will promote, and will not constitute an unreasonable risk to, the common defense and security. Accordingly, I have approved the agreement and authorized its execution, and urge that the Congress give it favorable consideration.
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
June 4, 1980.
  