
    ARLINGTON, VA-- Colonel Jack Jackson, USMC (Ret.) today issued the following statement on Gen. Wesley Clark's attack on John McCain's military service record on CBS' "Face the Nation":
"As a Marine pilot who served in Vietnam, I am deeply concerned about the disgraceful remarks from Barack Obama's campaign surrogate, Gen. Wesley Clark, regarding John McCain's military service. John McCain is proud of his record of always putting the country first from his time in the Navy, in Vietnam, and through to today. Being in command of a military squadron, regardless of whether the country is at war or peace, requires the true leadership that is necessary when assuming total responsibility for the well-being of the men and women in one's unit. John McCain's military experiences solely qualify him to be Commander-in-Chief when compared to any other candidate running for President of the United States.
"Having gone down in a helicopter myself in Vietnam, I know firsthand what is required to stay cool under fire. When John McCain was shot down, there is no doubt that he was in total control of the situation and made all the right decisions under fire. I personally feel betrayed by Gen. Clark's statements against John McCain. And when Barack Obama allows his surrogates to attack John McCain's military record, it simply proves that Barack Obama is to be nothing more than a typical politician who will say anything to get elected."
Colonel Jack Jackson flew more than 600 combat missions in Vietnam, receiving several campaign medals as well as four Distinguished Flying Crosses, 33 Air Medals, the Navy Commendation Medal (with combat V). Upon returning from Vietnam, Col. Jackson was a test pilot for the United States military and later the Boeing Company, becoming the nation's most experienced Verti cal/Short Take-off and Landing (VSOTL) pilot. Col. Jackson was elected to the Missouri House of Representatives in 2002 and received "Legislator of the Year" awards from the Missouri Veterans of Foreign Wars in 2003, 2005 and 2006.
Background:
Yesterday On CBS' "Face The Nation," Wesley Clark Attacked John McCain's Military Service. CLARK: "But he hasn't held executive responsibility. That large squadron in the Navy that he commanded? It wasn't a wartime squadron. He hasn't been there and ordered the bombs to fall. He hasn't seen what it's like when diplomats come in and say, 'I don't know whether we're going to be able to get this point through or not, do you want to take the risk, what about your reputation, how do we handle this publicly?' He hasn't made those points Bob." (CBS' "Face The Nation," 6/29/08)
• When Pressed, Clark Said "I Don't Think Riding In A Fighter Plane And Getting Shot Down Is A Qualification To Be President." CBS' BOB SCHIEFFER: "Well, General, could I just interrupt you. I have to say, Barack Obama has not had any of those experiences either nor has he ridden in a fighter plane and gotten shot down." CLARK: "Well, I don't think riding in a fighter plane and getting shot down is a qualification to be President." (CBS' "Face The Nation," 6/29/08)
Wesley Clark's Attack On McCain Contradicts Barack Obama's Promise For A New Kind Of Politics:
"Senator Barack Obama Often Offers A Crisp Sales Pitch To Voters, Imploring Them To Be Part Of Something New, Different And Hopeful. 'If You Want A New Kind Of Politics,' He Says, 'It's Time To Turn The Page.'" (Jeff Zeleny, "A New Kind Of Politics Closely Resembles The Old," The New York Times, 6/16/07)
• Barack Obama: "We've got to get beyond the small politics ... the slash and burn politics that have become the custom in Washington." ("Obama Denounces 'Slash And Burn' Politics," The Associated Press, 2/19/07)
• Barack Obama: "We don't want the small, timid, slash and burn, negative campaigning of the past." (Josh Hafenbrack, "Obama Barack Obama Calls For New Political Spirit During South Florida Campaign Swing," [Fort Lauderdale, FL] Sun Sentinel, 3/26/07)
• Barack Obama: "I know that in Washington it is acceptable to say or do anything it takes to get elected, but I really don't think that is the kind of politics that is good for our party, and I don't think it is good for our country, and I think that the American people will reject it in this election." (Ben Smith, "Obama: Clinton Rewrites History," The Politico's "Ben Smith" Blog, www.politico.com, 1/13/08)
FLASHBACK: Obama Surrogate Senator Jay Rockefeller (D-WV) Attacked John McCain's Character And Military Service:
Senator Rockefeller: "McCain was a fighter pilot, who dropped laser-guided missiles from 35,000 feet. He was long gone when they hit. What happened when they [the missiles] get to the ground? He doesn't know. You have to care about the lives of people. McCain never gets into those issues." (Paul J. Nyden, "Jay Defends Endorsement Of Sen. Obama," The Charleston Gazette, 4/8/08)
• Townhall's Matt Lewis: "This is the second incident in less than a week where we have seen an Obama surrogate -- not just questioning Sen. McCain's ideas -- but directly attacking his character, integrity, and war experience. Is this a pattern we should get used to?" (Matt Lewis, "Another Obama Surrogate Attacks McCain's Honor," Townhall's "Blog," www.townhall.com, 4/8/08)
FLASHBACK: Barack Obama Failed To Condemn Remarks From Obama Supporter Ed Schultz Calling John McCain "A Warmonger":
Obama Surrogate Talk Radio Host Ed Schultz Warmed Up Crowd By Calling McCain "A Warmonger." "But Mr. Schultz, a supporter of Senator Barack Obama, may have gone too far late Friday when he called Senator John McCain 'a warmonger.' Mr. Schultz made the remarks while revving up a group of Obama supporters at a $100-a-head fund raiser at the North Dakota Democratic Party's convention in Grand Forks." (Larry Rohter, "McCain Called A 'Warmonger' At Obama Event," The New York Times' "The Caucus" Blog, www.nytimes.com, 4/5/08)
MSBNC's First Read: "The Obama Campaign Didn't Condemn Schultz's Remark..." "As mentioned earlier, the Obama campaign didn't condemn Schultz's remark, but issued this statement: 'John McCain is not a warmonger and should not be described as such. He's a supporter of a war that Senator Obama believes should have never been authorized and never been waged.'" (Mark Murray, "McCain On The 'Warmonger' Remark," MSNBC's "First Read" Blog, firstread.msnbc.msn.com, 4/5/08)
FLASHBACK: Senator Tom Harkin (D-IA) Criticized McCain's Service In The Military:
Senator Tom Harkin Said McCain's Views Come "From Always Having Been In The Military, And I Think That Can Be Pretty Dangerous." "Republican presidential candidate John McCain's family background as the son and grandson of admirals has given him a worldview shaped by the military, 'and he has a hard time thinking beyond that,' Sen. Tom Harkin, D-Ia., said Friday. 'I think he's trapped in that,' Harkin said in a conference call with Iowa reporters. 'Everything is looked at from his life experiences, from always having been in the military, and I think that can be pretty dangerous.'" (Jane Norman, "Harkin: McCain Too 'Military,'" The Des Moines Register, 5/17/08)
  