
    "For many decades, an ever-growing maze of regulations, rules, restrictions has cost our country trillions and trillions of dollars, millions of jobs, countless American factories, and devastated many industries. But all that has changed the day I took the oath of office, and it's changed rapidly. -President Donald J. Trump
HISTORIC DEREGULATORY ACTIONS: President Trump has reduced a historic number of burdensome and unnecessary regulations and stopped the massive growth of new regulations. 

The Trump Administration's deregulatory actions across a vast array of American industries are the most significant in United States history.

The President signed 16 pieces of legislation deregulating education, mining retirement accounts, and more.


President Trump has slowed the growth of new regulations, adding only four economically significant regulations each year (not counting deregulatory actions).

Between 2001 and 2016, the Federal government added an average of 53 economically significant regulations each year.


Prior to President Trump, the norm in Washington was the addition of burdensome regulations that stifled economic growth.

INCREASING INCOME AND SAVINGS: President Trump's deregulatory agenda is putting more money back in the pockets of American families and workers.

The President's deregulatory actions are estimated to increase annual household income by $3,100.

Combined with the President's historic tax cuts, the average household will receive an increase of more than $6,600 per year.


Sixteen pieces of deregulation legislation signed by President Trump are expected to increase annual real incomes by more than $40 billion.
The Trump Administration has deregulated the healthcare sector, providing more affordable health insurance for American families and lowering the cost of prescription drugs.

Americans will save nearly ten percent on prescription drugs.
President Trump eliminated the individual mandate penalty in Obamacare, saving Americans billions of dollars annually.


In 2018, the President signed the Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief, and Consumer Protection Act, creating an additional $6 billion in savings to Americans every year.

UNLEASHING AMERICAN BUSINESSES: President Trump's deregulatory actions have unleashed American businesses and spurred our economic boom.

The elimination of unnecessary regulations has lowered costs for businesses and prices for American consumers.
Twenty of President Trump's deregulatory actions alone will save American consumers and businesses approximately $220 billion per year.
The removal of crushing government mandates has allowed small businesses to invest and expand instead of wasting time and money on compliance costs.
The deregulatory actions of the Trump Administration are increasing competition, productivity, and wages for American workers.

  