
    The Pawlenty for President campaign announced today that former State Auditor Richard Johnson endorses Gov. Tim Pawlenty for president and will serve as a co-chair for his Iowa campaign.
"Tim Pawlenty offers us a compelling vision of fiscal responsibility, a bold economic plan and a philosophy of limited government that will perform well in Iowa," Johnson said. "Gov. Pawlenty's strong record of results during his two terms as Minnesota's governor stands in sharp contrast to President Obama's tenure."
Johnson, a Drake University graduate who began his career as a certified public accountant in the private sector, served Iowa with distinction for 24 years as the taxpayer's watchdog before retiring in January 2003. His professional involvement included a stint as president of the National Association of State Auditors, Comptrollers and Treasurers, president of the National State Auditors Association and the first Iowan to serve on the Auditing Standards Board of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants.
He served 35 years in the Iowa National Guard. Before retiring at the rank of colonel, his assignments included artillery battalion commander, state finance officer and state director of Selective Service. A former mayor of Sheldahl in northern Polk County, Johnson served a term as president of the Iowa League of Municipalities. He has been a U.S. Department of State volunteer consultant in Bosnia, Slovakia and Kyrgyzstan and was a presidential election observer in Venezuela.
He was the state co-chair for Bob Vander Plaats' 2010 gubernatorial campaign and served in the same role for 2008 presidential nominee John McCain. He has served as the treasurer for U.S. Sen. Chuck Grassley's re-election campaign, has been a presidential elector and a delegate to numerous Republican National Conventions.
Ames businessman Roger Underwood, Cedar Rapids entrepreneur Christian Fong and former Republican Party of Iowa co-chairman Jim Kurtenbach are the Pawlenty for President Iowa campaign's other co-chairs.
  