
    Mr. President, Mrs. Scheel, ladies and gentlemen:
On your first visit to Washington as President of the Federal Republic of Germany, we extend, Mrs. Ford and myself, our heartiest welcome.
Your first year on the job has shown you have brought to the highest office of your land the same energy and the same dedication that you displayed throughout your long career in the parliament of your country.
You are no stranger, Mr. President, to our American officials. You served with great distinction as Foreign Minister. You have shown a remarkable breadth and expertise in economics as well as in politics, and you have a very firm grasp--and we are most grateful--in the Third World as well as in our industrial communities.
We have also noted, Mr. President, your rise to stardom in another important field--popular music--and I refer specifically to a piece that you recently recorded, which became a smash hit, as we call it, throughout your country.1
Your musical success contributes to your overall accomplishments as you seek harmony at home and in concert with Germany's neighbors, both West as well as East. You have dedicated yourself, Mr. President, to the cause of European unity, as we discussed this morning, as well as Atlantic solidarity. I know these goals are vital to you, as well as to your country.
At the same time, your contribution to better East-West relations has been most significant. Recent experience has demonstrated there can be no domestic tranquillity or stability and prosperity in any country without cooperation with other nations.
My Administration has been extremely proud to work closely with the Federal Republic on important international problems facing both of us in today's world. Your country has made an important contribution to international peace, Mr. President, not only through its steadfast cooperation with its friends as well as its allies but also in the example set by your Government and your people in meeting the new challenges of the modern world.
The Federal Republic today is in many, many ways a model of the development of the modern industrial state--thriving in freedom as well as in democracy, earning its role of eminence by hard work of its people, and finding its successes in common endeavors within the European community and with its allies.
This is the real challenge for the leaders of the West. I am inspired, Mr. President, by the determination that I sense in the Federal Republic and its leaders not to let our democratic way of life be undermined.
I continue to be impressed by your nation's ability to meet the tasks of today's world--whether in the fields of economics, trade, energy, national defense, or East-West relations--through the effective democratic government and creative diplomacy.
This tradition, Mr. President, is the most encouraging aspect of our friendship today. We cooperate very closely on the practical problems facing us, sharing the conviction that these solutions will mean nothing if our political and social institutions are not simultaneously preserved. A confident role in the world depends upon confidence in ourselves.
Mr. President, earlier today it was a pleasure to participate with you in the ceremony creating the John J. McCloy Fund, a fund established through a very generous contribution from the Federal Republic to our Bicentennial celebration, a fund which will be used to further German-American exchanges, conferences, contacts across the broad spectrum of our relations. I think this fund symbolizes anew the very close relationship between our peoples.
In this spirit, Mr. President, I raise my glass and welcome you to our country.
Mr. President.
  