
    The U.S. Government civilian assistance effort in Southeast Europe is substantial and coordinated closely with our European friends and allies on the ground in each recipient country. We also work together to help the countries of the region forge cooperative links through the Stability Pact.
U.S. Assistance Levels. The United States Government is putting roughly $1.2 billion in foreign assistance into Southeastern Europe in FY 2001, which is only slightly lower than our contributions for each of the last two years. Progress on resettlement of refugees and displaced persons as well as the successful conclusion of major reconstruction after the war in Bosnia means that overall assistance will likely continue to trend downward.
U.S. Assistance Objectives. Peacekeeping is key in the Balkans and roughly half our assistance ($600 million) supports this objective in FY 2001. The victims of recent conflicts still need some humanitarian aid ($160 million), although that level is falling. Building democratic and economic institutions of a modern, free society is basic, consuming $150 million and $279 million, respectively, of our aid. Anti-crime programs play a small ($11 million) but important role.
European Donor Burdensharing. The Europeans are generally slower in delivery but carry the lion's share of the assistance burden in Southeast Europe. In Bosnia, the U.S. paid roughly 25 percent while the Europeans provided 50 percent. For Kosovo, the U.S. covers 14 percent while the Europeans contribute 73 percent. The Europeans pledged 80 percent of the aid for Serbia verses 18 percent from the U.S.
Stability Pact. The Pact, a political initiative with the participation of over forty countries and international organizations, is a catalyst for regional cooperation and a vehicle for integrating the countries of SEE into European and Transatlantic institutions. In March 2000, the first funding conference raised $2.3 billion for "Quick Start" projects designed to promote democracy, economic reform, and enhanced security throughout the region. The United States contributed just over $77 million or 3.3 percent.
  