
    THE PRESIDENT. IS the fat lady here? 1 [Laughter]
I wish I had thought of that during the 1976 campaign. [Laughter] There were a lot of times during 1976 when I thought the ball game might be over, at least other people did. But I knew the fat lady had to sing.
1 The President was referring to the remark, "The opera isn't over till the fat lady sings," which was made by Bullets Coach Dick Motta following the fifth game of the Philadelphia-Washington series.
Well, it's a great honor for me as President of a wonderful country to share the honor and glory by standing on the same stage with a group of men and their supporters and women who have exhibited superb courage, because I think it's accurate to say that at the beginning of the season, most commentators, most analysts didn't think they could win the division championship. I really wish that they could have done it without beating Atlanta, but— [laughter] —because Atlanta has gone more than 42 years without a championship.
But it is a great pleasure for me to have all of you here and Wes, and Mr. Pollin, and all of the team. I've been cautioned not to single out any particular player, because I think one of the things that made this remarkable success possible is the fact that it was not built upon a single person. There are obviously stars, and there are obviously those who show that they are the most valuable player in a particular game or even in the great series. But what made this tremendous victory possible for the Bullets is the fact that it was a team effort. And I think that's the basis of a sound, unconquerable spirit that bound them all together.
The team was not fragmented or driven apart by jealousy, nor by an excessive desire for personal recognition. But all the way through there was a realization that only through a common effort and a team effort could this remarkable victory be successful.
The last time Washington had a champion was when Franklin Roosevelt was President. And this is really a hope that I might have brought good luck to Washington. [Laughter]
In my desire to be fair, I might say that I have a great respect for Seattle. I know you all do also. And at least Seattle has a racehorse named after them— [laughter] —so they have something to compensate for it.
But I want to express my admiration on the part of the whole United States for the remarkable achievement that the Bullets represent. And I know that everyone in our country, no matter what basketball team they may have supported at the beginning of the season, share my admiration and my appreciation for this remarkable achievement.
So, thank you for letting me be part of it and thank you for being such wonderful men, such wonderful leaders, such wonderful sportsmen, such a wonderful representation of what our country is.
Thank you again.
BOB FERRY. Mr. President, on behalf of the team and the entire Bullet organization, [it is] a great deal of honor to present a basketball to the President of the United States. This is unreal. [Laughter]
MR. MOTTA. Mr. President, I just want to say one thing. I saw your picture this morning on the front page of the paper, catching a Frisbee. And you were so athletic looking, and we had our draft today—I told Bob Ferry to draft you No. 2.
THE PRESIDENT. It's a real honor for me also to welcome back Larry O'Brien. He helped to make the White House and the Presidential administration a subject of admiration when he was here. His relationship to a great President, John Kennedy, and the superb work he did to tie together the White House and the Congress has set a standard for all those who came afterwards. And I know that he has contributed just as much in dealing with the National Basketball Association, and I'm honored just to have Larry O'Brien a good friend of mine, and I'm sure a good friend of yours—although you may not always recognize it. [Laughter]
So, Larry O'Brien.
MR. O'BRIEN. Thank you, Mr. President. And I want to simply express the thanks of the National Basketball Association for all of us for the high honor of being here with you today and Mrs. Carter. It's a great privilege.
It's 10 years ago since I was in this building; I walked in here today for the first time in 10 years. And I spent 8 very interesting, sometimes frustrating, as you understand, but good years here some time ago. So, thank you very much on behalf of all of us in the world of basketball for your kindness, you and Mrs. Carter, in having us here today. Thank you.
  