
    STATEMENT OF ADMINISTRATION POLICY
(House Floor)(Sponsors: Natcher (D), Kentucky; Bevill (D), Alabama)
This Statement of Administration Policy expresses the Administration's views on H.R. 2445, the Energy and Water Development Appropriations Bill, FY 1994, as reported by the House Appropriations Committee. The Administration supports House passage of H.R. 2445 and will work with Congress to address the concerns described below.
President's Investment Program
The Committee has provided sufficient funding for most of the Administration's investment programs funded by this bill. The Administration commends the Committee for its support of several specific investments, including solar and renewable energy programs, cooperative research and development agreements, and the B-Factory. The Committee has added $52 million for nuclear reactor programs that the Administration has proposed phasing out. Included in this is the SP-100 space reactor that will not likely be deployed by any government agency or by private industry. The Administration believes that these funds would be better spent to fund fully the Advanced Neutron Source, which the Committee has reduced by $29 million from the requested level.
Superconducting Super Collider (SSC)
The Administration commends the Committee for providing funding for continuing the SSC project. It is important that we continue the SSC, because it will maintain U.S. predominance in basic scientific research and stimulate new technologies in areas important to the future health of the U.S. economy. The Administration would strongly oppose any amendment that would terminate funding for the SSC.
Corps of Engineers/Bureau of Reclamation
The Committee has added over $300 million to the President's request for programs of the Corps of Engineers and the Bureau of Reclamation. Most of this increase is for unrequested construction projects and studies.
Atomic Energy Defense Activities
In general, the Administration supports Committee action to identify additional savings in nuclear weapons programs, consistent with program reductions that have occurred since the FY 1994 Budget was submitted. However, the Administration is concerned that the Committee has not provided funding for the Dual-Axis Radiographic Hydrotest Facility (DARHT) at Los Alamos National Laboratory. With the anticipated end of underground nuclear weapons tests, the DARHT facility will become vital to studies of the reliability of the nuclear weapons stockpile. It is essential that DARHT be fully funded and completed on schedule.
Uranium Enrichment Facilities
The Committee has rejected the President's proposal to allow the U.S. Enrichment Corporation to determine whether to operate both U.S. uranium enrichment facilities after FY 1995. Absent the President's proposal, the U.S. Enrichment Corporation would have no flexibility and would have to lease both facilities for at least six years. Funding the unneeded facility would cost roughly $1 billion over the next five years.
  