
    
  "But the question really remains, when has Barack Obama stood up and taken on his party on anything of national significance?" - Governor Tim Pawlenty
"And I think that it will be also very important for them to talk about reaching across the aisle, and I think this is a very attractive part about Senator McCain because he doesn't just talk about that, he has proven it over and over again that he can reach across aisle." - Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger
"[P]eople have to be accountable for the commitments they've made and one of the most recent examples, Senator Obama made a commitment that he would abide by public financing. He's now changed his mind." - Governor Bobby Jindal
"John McCain is more ready to be president on foreign and domestic policy because of his extraordinary experience. It's good experience. It's experience where he's had the guts to do what's right for his country, including in Iraq where he opposed the administration policy for a long time." - Senator Joe Lieberman
"Well, first of all, when you look at Senator Obama's changes recently it goes to more than just changes and facts and circumstances. It goes to sort of changing your approach to politics." - Former Representative Rob Portman

 Governor Tim Pawlenty (R-MN) On ABC's "This Week":
ABC's "This Week"
June 29, 2008
Governor Tim Pawlenty: "Well, John McCain has a record of putting his country first as a POW, not budging in line in front of other POWs, in terms of bucking his party if that's what it takes to do what he thinks is right for the country, on a whole variety of issues. But the question really remains, when has Barack Obama stood up and taken on his party on anything of national significance? And on the issue of immigration, when John McCain was leading that issue, taking great risk and taking a pounding from his own party, Barack Obama was not significantly engaged in that debate and the accounting of the votes ultimately, where he actually put amendments or tried to support amendments that would derail immigration reform in this country. Another example of John McCain's courageous leadership and Barack Obama not walking the walk."
Watch Gov. Tim Pawlenty
Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger (R-CA) On NBC's "Meet The Press":
NBC's "Meet The Press"
June 29, 2008
NBC's Tom Brokaw: "You have talked recently about the importance of people getting together and finding common ground people working together again. Here, at the Reagan Library and the LBJ Library, in Texas, they'd like to have a series of town halls using both libraries in a kind of bipartisan fashion. You think that would advance the interest of the country during this campaign year?"
Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger: "I think so. I mean, I think it will be interesting to have a debate between the two candidates and to have town hall meetings together, so that people can hear from both of them without having those formal kind of question and answer sessions where they stand behind a podium. I think those are fake. I don't buy in on what they say when they do those kind of formats. I think a town hall meeting would be much better.
"And I think that it will be also very important for them to talk about reaching across the aisle, and I think this is a very attractive part about Senator McCain because he doesn't just talk about that, he has proven it over and over again that he can reach across aisle. He can bring people on board and create some action. And, I think that's what we need in the future. We need to have someone there that can bring both of the parties together because there's no way that we can reshape and fix our country the very different ills that we have and create again a better image overseas with just one party. You have to have both parties work together, and this is why I'm a believer in the post partisanship. It has worked in our state and is a whole new way of looking at it: to be willing to compromise, and to be a public servant and not Party servant."
Watch Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger
Governor Bobby Jindal (R-LA) On CNN's "Late Edition":
CNN's "Late Edition"
June 29, 2008
Governor Bobby Jindal: "I think in an election, that certainly people have to be accountable for the commitments they've made and one of the most recent examples, Senator Obama made a commitment that he would abide by public financing. He's now changed his mind. I understand it's too his advantage and certainly everybody understands that, but there are consequences to that, and I think Senator McCain is right to point out when his opponent says one thing and does another. And I'm sure we'll hear a lot more about that, especially on specific policies, whether it's tax policies or Second Amendment policies. I think part of a general election debate is a compare and contrast, but the nice thing is, I think that you are going to see a real disagreement on the issues. This isn't going to be a fight on personalities or just name calling or mudslinging. You've got two honorable people who've served their country, who are intelligent, patriotic , but have very different views of how do we fight the war against terrorism."
Watch Gov. Bobby Jindal
Senator Joe Lieberman (I-CT) On CBS' "Face The Nation":
CBS' "Face The Nation"
June 29, 2008
Senator Joe Lieberman: "John McCain is more ready to be president on foreign and domestic policy because of his extraordinary experience. It's good experience. It's experience where he's had the guts to do what's right for his country, including in Iraq where he opposed the administration policy for a long time.
"The Surge was implemented by President Bush. It's now working. Senator Obama unfortunately, like a lot of the Democratic leadership, continues to take a position that we ought to withdraw, which to me is retreat, accept defeat, even though the new policy is working. So, I hope Barack Obama goes to Iraq, and frankly, I hope he changes his position because if we had done what Senator Obama asked us to do for the last couple of years, today Iran and Al-Qaeda would be in control of Iraq. It would be a terrible defeat for us and our allies in the Middle East and throughout the world. Instead, we've got a country that's defending itself, that's growing economically, where there's been genuine political reconciliation and where Iran and Al-Qaeda are on the run. And that's the way it ought to be."
Watch Sen. Joe Lieberman
Former U.S. Representative Rob Portman (R-OH) On Fox News' "Fox News Sunday":
Fox News' "Fox News Sunday"
June 29, 2008
Former Representative Rob Portman: "Well, first of all, when you look at Senator Obama's changes recently, including saying he would accept the public financing and then changing his mind on that, which is really a core issue in terms of the new politics that he's talked about, this really -- it goes to more than just changes and facts and circumstances. It goes to sort of changing your approach to politics."
Watch Rob Portman
  