
    Last night, New Hampshire took notice as Senator Gillibrand highlighted her record of taking on the tough fights in Washington and getting things done for families and women across the country. In doing so, Gillibrand proved why she is uniquely prepared to take on and beat Donald Trump, just days before she's set to return to New Hampshire for a marathon visit.
Taking note of her leadership on women's reproductive rights and paid family leave as well as her bold plan to remove money from politics and establish publicly funded elections, voters across the Granite State were impressed and excited by Senator Gillibrand's performance last night.
See below for a roundup of reactions from New Hampshire voters:
"Last night, Senator Gillibrand reaffirmed exactly why I endorsed her in the first place: her commitment to helping families is unparalleled." - State Representative Sue Ford, Easton, NH
"Senator Gillibrand showed us that she is a fierce advocate for women and families. Her spoken commitment to paid family and medical leave, a women's right to choose, and gun violence prevention, helps to narrow the broad field of candidates." - Jenn Alford-Teaster, Bradford, NH
"Women's reproductive rights are under attack across the country. It was great to see Senator Gillibrand continue to lead on the issue last night on the debate stage. She is right- we have to do more than defend reproductive rights when they're under attack, we must also proactively fight to expand access to safe, legal abortion for woman everywhere." - Amelia Keane, Nashua, NH
"Senator Gillibrand's commitment to standing up for women's reproductive rights is unparalleled and that showed on last night's debate stage." - Laurie McCray, Portsmouth, NH
"Sen Gillibrand really showed her strength and tenacity. The mighty powerhouse who took on the Pentagon about sexual harassment was on full display." - Debby Butler, Concord, NH
"I was impressed by her tenacity and repeated support for women's reproductive justice. She held her own, made strong points and came across as a fighter." - NH Women's Caucus Co-Chair Anne Ketterer, Manchester, NH
"Last night Gillibrand passionately spoke up for every woman who has ever been interrupted by men. I appreciate the ways in which she made herself heard and I'm glad to have her voice in the conversation." - Josie Pinto, Concord, NH
  