
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
June 17 1
The President announced his intention to nominate Celeste Pinto McLain to serve on the Board of Directors of the National Railroad Corporation (Amtrak).
June 19
In the evening, the President and Hillary and Chelsea Clinton returned to the White House from a weekend stay at Camp David, MD.
June 21
In the morning, the President met with President Yoweri Museveni of Uganda in the Oval Office.
In the evening, the President and Hillary Clinton hosted a reception for the Democratic National Committee Business Leadership Forum on the South Lawn.
The President declared a major disaster exists in the State of South Dakota and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in areas struck by severe storms and flooding.
June 22
In the afternoon, the President and Hillary Clinton hosted a luncheon for King Hussein and Queen Noor of Jordan.
In the evening, the President had a telephone conversation with President Kim Yong-sam of South Korea about recent developments in the North Korean situation.
June 23
In the morning, the President met with Prime Minister Viktor Chernomyrdin of Russia.
The President announced his intention to appoint the following:
—William J. Wilson, to be a member of the President's Commission on White House Fellowships;
—John E. Lyle, to be a member of the Federal Council on the Aging;
—Stanislaus A. Blejwas, to be a member of the U.S. Holocaust Memorial Council;
—Hugh H. Hogle, Wayne Owens, and Robert K. Nelson to be members of the Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission.
June 24
In the morning, the President met with President Carlos Menem of Argentina. Following the meeting, the President traveled to St. Louis, MO. After his arrival in the late morning, the President traveled from St. Louis International Airport to Union Station on the Metrolink train system.
In the afternoon, the President went to the Fox Park neighborhood where he was given a tour and attended a Summer of Safety event. In the late afternoon, the President met with the East St. Louis recipients of the Children's Defense Fund "Beat the Odds" scholarship program at the Adams Mark Hotel.
In the evening, the President attended a reception for Representative Richard Gephardt at the Adams Mark Hotel. Following the reception, he returned to Washington, DC.
The President announced his intention to appoint Raul Yzaguirre as Chair, Ana Margarita Guzman as Vice Chair, and the following 19 members of the President's Advisory Commission on Educational Excellence for Hispanic Americans:
—Erlinda Paiz Archuleta;
—Cecelia Preciado Burciaga;
—George Castro;
—Darlene Chavira Chavez;
—Miriam Cruz;
—Maria Hernandez;
—Sonia Hernandez;
—Mike Koldyke;
—Cipriano Munoz;
—Eduardo Padron;
—Janice Petrovich;
—Edwin Quinones;
—Gloria Rodriguez;
—Isaura Santiago Santiago;
—John Phillip Santos;
—Samuel Vigil;
—Diana Cendoya Wasserman;
—Ruben Zacarias; and
—Jose Gonzalez.
The President announced his intention to nominate Richard Holbrooke as Assistant Secretary of State for European and Canadian Affairs.
  