
    
  The Hill: "Graham, A Republican Presidential Hopeful, Said He Wanted To Spur A Debate On The Issue Of Abortion"
  (Peter Sullivan, "Graham introduces 20-week abortion ban," The Hill, 06/11/15)

Recently, Senator Graham introduced the Pain Capable Unborn Child Protection Act along with other pro-life leaders, banning wholesale abortions after the 20-week mark in pregnancy.
"I don't believe abortion, five months into pregnancy, makes us a better nation. I look forward to leading this long-overdue effort and pushing for a roll call vote in the Senate," Graham said.
In a press release, Susan B Anthony List president Majorie Dannenfelser, applauded his efforts, "We need more people who put action behind their convictions. Senator Graham continually backs up his words with concrete action. He has been a true and consistent champion for life in the U.S. Senate and, thanks to his strategic leadership, we are closer than ever before to getting every Senator on record when it comes to protecting innocent children after the fifth month of pregnancy."
Take a look at some of the coverage his efforts to protect life made:
The Washington Times: "[Graham's] Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act Would Put The U.S. On The 'Right Side Of History'"
"Mr. Graham, of South Carolina, said his Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act would put the U.S. on the 'right side of history' in the long-running debate over abortion." (Tom Howell Jr., "Lindsey Graham files bill to ban abortion after 20 weeks of pregnancy," The Washington Times, 06/11/15)
Graham: "The United States Should Not Be In That Club."
"There are only seven countries that allow wholesale abortions at the 20-week period including China and North Korea," said Mr. Graham, who is running for president. "The United States should not be in that club."
The Washington Times: "No Doubt The Legislation Will One Day Be Passed By Congress"
"To become law, the GOP-driven legislation would have to overcome a likely Democratic filibuster in the Senate and to get by President Obama, who has vowed a veto, saying the bill restricts women's choices at a difficult time for them...'I have no doubt the legislation will one day be passed by Congress and signed into law,' he said." (Tom Howell Jr., "Lindsey Graham files bill to ban abortion after 20 weeks of pregnancy," The Washington Times, 06/11/15)
USA Today: "Graham Said Wednesday The Senate Should Debate The Proposal"
"Graham said Wednesday the Senate should debate the proposal even though it may not gain enough support to overcome a likely presidential veto. 'I want to make the American people think long and hard about wholesale abortions at 20 weeks,' the South Carolina senator said at a Capitol Hill press conference with leaders of several anti-abortion organizations." (Mary Troyan, "Sen. Graham reintroduces abortion bill," USA Today
  