
    Vilmain Named State Director, Winterhof Becomes Senior Strategist
On the heels of her strong organizational showing at this weekend's Iowa Hall of Fame Dinner, Hillary Clinton's campaign today announced a major expansion of her Iowa leadership Team.
The campaign today named longtime Democratic activist Teresa Vilmain as Iowa State Director. Vilmain will be responsible for day-to-day operations and running the campaign in the state. JoDee Winterhof will shift from state director to the role of senior strategist. She will become a chief surrogate for the campaign, traveling across the state to do more political outreach and expand on the campaign's women and other constituency outreach, and continue to play a key role in the overall strategy of the Iowa campaign.
"Our campaign is expanding in a serious way," said Winterhof. "I'm excited to work alongside Teresa Vilmain again, and am looking forward to getting out around the state and continuing to make the case to Iowans that Hillary Clinton is the candidate most ready to lead our nation from day one."
A native Iowan, Winterhof also served as Chief of Staff to Senator Tom Harkin.
Vilmain is one of the most experienced operatives in the Democratic Party, having worked on the campaigns of Senator John Culver, Senator Tom Harkin and Governor Tom Vilsack and Lt. Governor Sally Pederson. A veteran of the 1992 and 1996 Clinton presidential campaigns and the 2000 Gore presidential campaign, Vilmain was a senior strategist on Vilsack's presidential campaign earlier this year. She also has worked in senior roles at the Democratic National Committee and EMILY's List.
"I am honored to join Senator Clinton's Iowa campaign," said Vilmain. "She is the only candidate with the experience and leadership to bring real change to our nation. I'm excited to work with JoDee Winterhof and the rest of the Iowa team to get that message out across Iowa."
"JoDee Winterhof has done a great job getting our Iowa campaign off the ground, and look forward to continuing to work with her towards success in January," said Senator Clinton. "By adding Teresa Vilmain to our Iowa leadership team, we are bringing in even more experience and expanding our ability to talk to more Iowans. I look forward to coming back to Iowa this weekend and talking to people about my vision for getting our country back on track."
  