
    Hillary's NH Support Continuing to Grow
MANCHESTER, NH – On the heels of Senator Hillary Clinton's ninth visit to New Hampshire and a Conversation on stem cell research she held at Dartmouth College in Hanover on June 15th, several key leaders have announced today they have decided to endorse Senator Clinton for President.
"Each time I travel to New Hampshire I am humbled to meet more and more people who are supporting my campaign," said Senator Clinton. "I enjoyed visiting the Upper Valley and meeting so many wonderful people during my visit. I look forward to returning again soon."
The following seven community leaders decided to support Senator Clinton: Bernie Benn (Hanover); Mary Chambers (Hanover); Marion Copenhaver (Hanover); John Hennessy (Hanover); Ralph Hough (Lebanon); former Vermont Governor Madeleine Kunin (Burlington, VT); and Hilda Sokol (Hanover).
State Representative Bernie Benn is currently serving his fourth term and makes the 44th New Hampshire legislator to endorse Senator Clinton. He is the Vice Chair of the House Finance Committee, an architect and former Hanover Democratic Chair.
Mary Chambers is the former Democratic Leader in the House and former NHDP Vice Chair. Also served as a Presidential Elector and DNC Committeewoman. She was a Dean supporter in 2004.
Marion Copenhaver is a former State Representative and is a well known activist at Kendal at Hanover retirement community, where she currently resides.
John Hennessey is the former Dean of the Amos Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth and he was a trustee and chairman of the board at Dartmouth-Hitchcock Medical Center. He is also on the board of trustees at the Vermont Law School and was the first provost at the University of Vermont. John is also a WWII Army veteran. He was Kerry supporter in 2004.
Ralph Hough is a Vietnam Veteran and former Republican Senate President who represented Lebanon for six years in the State House and 16 in the State Senate. He is now a Democrat and he supported Dean in 2004.
Madeleine Kunin, who has already announced her support, was the first and only female Governor of Vermont from 1985 to 1991. She is also a former Deputy Secretary of Education and former Ambassador to Switzerland.
Hilda Sokol is currently retired. She is a former State Representative and former professor of physiology at Dartmouth. She was a Dean supporter in 2004.
Today's Upper Valley endorsements join a growing list of Hillary supporters in New Hampshire including 43 state legislators. For more information on the campaign, please visit www.hillaryclinton.com/nh.
  