
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
June 13
In the afternoon, the President had a telephone conversation with President Boris Yeltsin of Russia.
The President announced his intention to nominate Marsha P. Martin and Doyle L. Cook to serve as members of the Farm Credit Administration Board. Upon confirmation, Ms. Martin will be designated Chairman.
June 14
In the morning, the President met with Senator Bob Packwood and Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan to discuss health care. He then traveled to Kansas City, MO, where he met with women who have benefited from State welfare reform programs. He returned to Washington, DC, in the evening.
The White House announced the President has accepted an invitation to visit Riga, Latvia, on July 6, for a meeting with President Guntis Ulmanis of Latvia, President Lennart Meri of Estonia, and President Algirdas Brazauskas of Lithuania.
June 15
In the afternoon, the President had lunch with the Vice President.
In the evening, the President attended a fundraiser for Bonnie Campbell, Democratic nominee for Governor of Iowa, at the Sheraton Carlton Hotel.
The President announced his intention to appoint Janice M. Johnson as a member of the Committee for the Preservation of the White House.
The President announced his intention to designate Peter S. Watson as Chair and Janet A. Nuzum as Vice Chair of the United States International Trade Commission.
June 16
In the morning, the President met with Members of Congress to discuss issues concerning oil and gas.
In the late afternoon, the President and Hillary Clinton traveled to Chicago, IL.
The President announced his intention to nominate Robert F. Drinan, Cherry T. Kinoshita, Yeiichi Kuwayama, Dale Minami, and Don T. Nakanishi to the Civil Liberties Public Education Board of Directors.
June 17
In the afternoon, the President and Hillary and Chelsea Clinton attended the first game of the World Cup soccer tournament at Soldier Field. Following the game, they traveled to Camp David, MD.
The President announced that he has appointed the following nine members of the Holocaust Memorial Council:
—Benjamin Meed;
—John T. Pawlikowski;
—Deborah E. Lipstadt;
—David Berger;
—Gary A. Barron;
—Menachem Z. Rosensaft;
—Abigail S. Wexner;
—Arthur L. Schechter; and
—Lawrence M. Small.
The President declared a major disaster exists in the District of Columbia and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local efforts in areas struck by severe ice storms January 17–19.
  