
    Memorandum for the Director of the Central Intelligence Agency 
Subject: Providing an Order of Succession Within the Central Intelligence Agency
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including the Federal Vacancies Reform Act of 1998, as amended, 5 U.S.C. 3345 et seq. (the "Act"), it is hereby ordered that:
Section 1. Order of Succession. Subject to the provisions of section 2 of this memorandum and to the limitations set forth in the Act, the following officers of the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA), in the order listed, shall act as and perform the functions and duties of the Director of the Central Intelligence Agency (D/CIA), during any period in which the D/CIA has died, resigned, or otherwise becomes unable to perform the functions and duties of the office of D/CIA:
(a) Deputy Director, CIA;
(b) Chief Operating Officer, CIA;
(c) Deputy Director of CIA for Operations;
(d) Deputy Director of CIA for Analysis;
(e) Deputy Director of CIA for Science and Technology;
(f) Deputy Director of CIA for Digital Innovation;
(g) Deputy Director of CIA for Support;
(h) General Counsel, CIA;
(i) Deputy Chief Operating Officer, CIA;
(j) Senior CIA Representative for the United Kingdom;
(k) Senior CIA Representative for the East Coast; and
(l) Senior CIA Representative for the West Coast.
Sec. 2. Exceptions. (a) No individual who is serving in an office listed in section 1 of this memorandum in an acting capacity, by virtue of so serving, shall act as D/CIA pursuant to this memorandum.
(b) No individual listed in section 1 of this memorandum shall act as D/CIA unless that individual is otherwise eligible to so serve under the Act.
(c) Notwithstanding the provisions of this memorandum, the President retains discretion, to the extent permitted by law, to depart from this memorandum in designating an acting D/CIA.
Sec. 3. Revocation. The Presidential Memorandum of September 16, 2016 (Providing an Order of Succession Within the Central Intelligence Agency), is hereby revoked.
Sec. 4. General Provisions. This memorandum is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person. DONALD J. TRUMP
  