
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
June 9
In the morning, the President traveled to Las Vegas, NV. Following his arrival, he toured a juvenile justice work program site.
In the afternoon, the President traveled to Henderson, NV, where he attended a Democratic National Committee luncheon at a private residence. Later in the afternoon, he traveled to San Francisco, CA.
In the evening, the President attended a Democratic National Committee dinner at the home of Senator Dianne Feinstein. He then traveled to San Diego, CA.
June 10
In the morning, the President toured the Hillcrest satellite police office.
In the evening, the President traveled to Los Angeles, CA, where he attended a Democratic National Committee dinner at a private residence. He then traveled to Culver City, CA, and then to Santa Monica, CA.
The President announced that Office of National Drug Policy Director Barry R. McCaffrey will convene a law enforcement summit in El Paso, TX, on July 10 to lay the groundwork for a renewed attack on drug trafficking across the Southwest border.
The President announced the 1996 recipients of the Nation's highest science and technology honors. Recipients of the National Medal of Science are: Wallace S. Broecker, Norman Davidson, James L. Flanagan, Richard M. Karp, C. Kumar N. Patel, Ruth Patrick, Paul A. Samuelson, and Stephen Smale. Recipients of the National Medal of Technology are: Charles H. Kaman, Stephanie Louise Kwolek, James C. Morgan, Peter H. Rose, and the Johnson & Johnson Company.
June 11
In the morning, the President traveled to Glendale, CA.
In the afternoon, the President traveled from Los Angeles, CA, to Albuquerque, NM.
In the evening, the President traveled to Charleston, SC.
The President had a telephone conversation with Senator Bob Dole concerning the Senator's retirement from the United States Senate.
The President announced the appointment of Stuart E. Eizenstat to become a member of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation Board of Directors.
The President announced his intention to nominate Wyche Fowler, Jr., to be Ambassador to Saudi Arabia.
June 12
In the morning, the President traveled to Greeleyville, SC, and later returned to Washington, DC.
June 14
In the morning, the President met with Democratic congressional candidates.
In the evening, the President attended Democratic National Committee dinners at the Hay Adams Hotel and the Jefferson Hotel. Later, he and Hillary and Chelsea Clinton went to Camp David, MD.
The President announced his intention to nominate A. Vernon Weaver as U.S. Representative to the European Union.
The President announced his intention to appoint Valerie J. Bradley as Chair and member of the President's Committee on Mental Retardation.
  