
    Democrats want to take the same leftist policies that have destroyed California and enact them nationwide. Ron DeSantis is running for president to stop them.
In an exclusive interview with Daily Wire, Ron DeSantis walked through the streets of San Francisco and discussed with Daily Wire Editor-in-Chief John Bickley the disastrous consequence of leftist policies: Uncontrollable homelessness, widespread drug use, and lawlessness. As president, Ron DeSantis is committed to stopping radical leftist policies from gaining traction in cities and communities nationwide.
While walking through the streets, San Francisco police officers and firefighters recognized Governor DeSantis and offered their appreciation for his pro-law enforcement policies and support.
Watch the full Daily Wire video HERE.
GOVERNOR DESANTIS: "You've really seen a city that used to be one of the best in the country, you've just seen it become hollowed out. And it's a direct result of leftist policy and leftist ideology. I never saw a California license plate growing up in Florida, then I become governor. We have Californians flooding leaving San Francisco to go to Miami and other places. It was intolerable to live in this area because they don't care about crime, they don't care about homelessness. No one wants to live under those circumstances.
"You know, there's probably a few levers you can pull but basically to target of the Soros-funded prosecutors who get elected like they had here in San Francisco, and they get elected on a platform not to enforce laws they don't like. I've talked to people that have moved to Florida from here and other parts of the country and they say, you know, someone mugged me, or they robbed my car, they even broke into my home, no prosecution. I mean, can you imagine that? Of course, you're going to get more crime as a result. Whatever they do, we try to do the opposite on a lot of this stuff. I mean, I think they are very tolerant about illegal drug use, particularly public, we will not countenance that. And then their approach to criminal justice has been a total disaster.
  