
    United States and EU Reached Agreement Today to Level the Playing Field and Address Shared Challenges from China
Boeing: Boeing welcomes the agreement by Airbus and the European Union that all future government support for the development or production of commercial aircraft must be provided on market terms. The understanding reached today commits the EU to addressing launch aid, and leaves in place the necessary rules to ensure that the EU and United States live up to that commitment, without requiring further WTO action. Boeing will fully support the U.S. Government's efforts to ensure that the principles in this understanding are respected. [Statement, 6/15/21]
International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers (IAM), President Robert Martinez Jr.: The IAM applauds the efforts of the USTR as it takes a significant step forward to finally resolve aerospace disputes with the EU that were filed 17 years ago. We are confident that the USTR will make the interests of U.S. aerospace workers a priority as it proceeds to resolve these matters with the EU. As thousands upon thousands of U.S. aerospace jobs are outsourced throughout the world to countries like Mexico and China, we are also heartened by an acknowledgement that at least one non-market economy, China, has become the focus of these talks. [Statement, 6/15/21]
IAM District 751 President and Directing Business Representative Jon Holden: The IAM especially welcomes USTR's long awaited efforts to coordinate with the EU in challenging China's trade violations. As Boeing and Airbus shift production to China, it is the workers in the U.S. and the EU who suffer as they see their livelihoods moving to a country that does not recognize the right to form a union and engage in collective bargaining. It is simply unacceptable for Boeing workers to have their jobs sacrificed to China and other countries like Mexico in the name of unfair global competition. Coordination between the U.S. and the EU to confront China's trade challenges in aerospace is urgently needed. While today's announcement is a solid step forward, if the EU is not willing to join us, the U.S. should move ahead with its own challenges to China's unfair trade practices." [Statement, 6/15/21]
  