
    John Preston Bailey, of West Virginia, to be United States District Judge for the Northern District of West Virginia, vice Frederick P. Stamp, Jr., retiring.
Mary O. Donohue, of New York, to be United States District Judge for the Northern District of New York, vice Frederick J. Scullin, Jr., retired.
John Alfred Jarvey, of Iowa, to be United States District Judge for the Southern District of Iowa, vice Ronald E. Longstaff, retiring.
Robert James Jonker, of Michigan, to be United States District Judge for the Western District of Michigan, vice Gordon J. Quist, retired.
Kent A. Jordan, of Delaware, to be United States Circuit Judge for the Third Circuit, vice Jane R. Roth, retired.
Raymond M. Kethledge, of Michigan, to be United States Circuit Judge for the Sixth Circuit, vice James L. Ryan, retired.
Debra Ann Livingston, of New York, to be United States Circuit Judge for the Second Circuit, vice John M. Walker, Jr., retiring.
Paul Lewis Maloney, of Michigan, to be United States District Judge for the Western District of Michigan, vice Richard Alan Enslen, retired.
Stephen Joseph Murphy, III, of Michigan, to be United States Circuit Judge for the Sixth Circuit, vice Susan Bieke Neilson, deceased.
Janet T. Neff, of Michigan, to be United States District Judge for the Western District of Michigan, vice David W. McKeague, elevated.
Carmel Borders, of Kentucky, to be a Member of the National Institute for Literacy Advisory Board for a term expiring November 25, 2008. (Reappointment)
Jay M. Cohen, of New York, to be Under Secretary for Science and Technology, Department of Homeland Security, vice Charles E. McQueary, resigned.
Sean T. Connaughton, of Virginia, to be Administrator of the Maritime Administration, vice William Schubert, resigned.
Donald D. Deshler, of Kansas, to be a Member of the National Institute for Literacy Advisory Board for a term expiring January 30, 2008, vice Phyllis C. Hunter, term expired.
Blanca E. Enriquez, of Texas, to be a Member of the National Institute for Literacy Advisory Board for a term expiring January 30, 2009. (Reappointment).
Patricia Mathes, of Texas, to be a Member of the National Institute for Literacy Advisory Board for a term expiring November 25, 2007, vice Mark G. Yudof, resigned.
Eliza McFadden, of Florida, to be a Member of the National Institute for Literacy Advisory Board for a term expiring January 30, 2009, vice Douglas Carnine, term expired.
Timothy Shanahan, of Illinois, to be a Member of the National Institute for Literacy Advisory Board for a term expiring November 25, 2007, vice Jean Osborn, term expired.
  