
    The following list does not include promotions of members of the Uniformed Services, nominations to the Service Academies, or nominations of Foreign Service officers.
Submitted June 20
John Michael Bradford, of Texas, to be U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of Texas for the term of 4 years, vice Robert J. Wortham.
John Haughton D'Arms, of Michigan, to be a member of the National Council on the Humanities for a term expiring January 26, 2000, vice Michael T. Bass, term expired.
Darryl J. Gless, of North Carolina, to be a member of the National Council on the Humanities for a term expiring January 26, 1998, vice Anne Paolucci, term expired.
Ramon A. Gutierrez, of California, to be a member of the National Council on the Humanities for a term expiring January 26, 2000, vice Harvey C. Mansfield, Jr., term expired.
Charles Patrick Henry, of California, to be a member of the National Council on the Humanities for a term expiring January 26, 2000, vice Hillel Fradkin, term expired.
Thomas Cleveland Holt, of Illinois, to be a member of the National Council on the Humanities for the remainder of the term expiring January 26, 1998, vice Condoleezza Rice.
Martha Congleton Howell, of New York, to be a member of the National Council on the Humanities for a term expiring January 26, 2000, vice Edwin J. Delattre, term expired.
Nicolas Kanellos, of Texas, to be a member of the National Council on the Humanities for a term expiring January 26, 2000, vice William P. Wright, Jr., term expired.
Bev Lindsey, of Arkansas, to be a member of the National Council on the Humanities for a term expiring January 26, 2000, vice Donald Kagan, term expired.
Thomas Joseph Maroney, of New York, to be U.S. Attorney for the Northern District of New York for the term of 4 years, vice Frederick J. Scullin, resigned.
G. Mario Moreno, of Texas, to be Assistant Secretary for Intergovernmental and Interagency Affairs, Department of Education, vice G.O. Griffith, Jr., resigned.
Phyllis E. Oakley, of Louisiana, to be an Assistant Secretary of State (new position).
Robert I. Rotberg, of Massachusetts, to be a member of the National Council on the Humanities for a term expiring January 26, 2000, vice Michael Malbin, term expired.
Harold K. Skramstad, of Michigan, to be a member of the National Council on the Humanities for a term expiring January 26, 2000, vice Patrick Butler, term expired.
David S. Tatel, of Maryland, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the District of Columbia Circuit, vice Ruth Bader Ginsburg.
Submitted June 21
Mark W. Bennett, of Iowa, to be U.S. District Judge for the Northern District of Iowa, vice Donald E. O'Brien, retired.
Salvador E. Casellas, of Puerto Rico, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of Puerto Rico, vice Jaime Pieras, Jr., retired.
Daniel R. Dominguez, of Puerto Rico, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of Puerto Rico, vice Gilberto Gierbolini-Ortiz, retired.
Richard L. Greene, of Maryland, to be Chief Financial Officer, Department of State, vice Jill E. Kent.
Delissa A. Ridgway, of the District of Columbia, to be Chairman of the Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States for the remainder of the term expiring September 30, 1994, vice James H. Grossman.
Delissa A. Ridgway, of the District of Columbia, to be Chairman of the Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States for a term expiring September 30, 1997 (reappointment).
John R. Lacey, of Connecticut, to be a member of the Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States for the term expiring September 30, 1995, vice Benjamin F. Marsh, term expired.
Submitted June 22
William C. Bryson, of Maryland, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the Federal Circuit, vice Howard T. Markey, retired.
Alan A. Diamonstein, of Virginia, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the National Corporation for Housing Partnerships for the term expiring October 27, 1995, vice Eugene Peters, term expired.
Robert James Huggett, of Virginia, to be an Assistant Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, vice Erich W. Bretthauer, resigned.
Neil H. Offen, of the District of Columbia, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Inter-American Foundation for a term expiring October 6, 1998, vice Paul Edward Sussman, term expired.
Sandra Kaplan Stuart, of North Carolina, to be an Assistant Secretary of Defense, vice David J. Gribbin III, resigned.
  