
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
June 6
In the morning, the President and Hillary Clinton went to Camp David, MD.
June 7
The President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Tony Blair of the United Kingdom concerning matters in Kosovo, the Middle East peace process, and Northern Ireland. The President also had separate telephone conversations with Prime Minister Meles Zenawi of Ethiopia and President Isaias Afworki of Eritrea concerning tensions in their region.
In the evening, the President and Hillary Clinton hosted a dinner for President Fernando Cardoso of Brazil and his wife, Ruth, at Camp David.
June 8
In the morning, the President traveled to New York City, and in the afternoon, he traveled to Westport, CT. Later, the President returned to New York City.
In the evening, the President met with President Ernesto Zedillo of Mexico in the Presidential Suite of the Waldorf Astoria Hotel. Later, the President returned to Washington, DC.
The President announced his intention to appoint Kay Koplovitz to serve as the Chair of the National Women's Business Council.
The President declared a major disaster in Pennsylvania and ordered Federal aid to supplement Commonwealth and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms, tornadoes, and flooding May 31-June 2.
The White House announced that the President asked Congress to provide an additional $294 million to deter and respond to terrorist incidents involving the use of biological or chemical weapons.
June 9
The President announced his intention to nominate William L. Massey to serve as Commissioner on the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission.
The President announced his intention to nominate William C. Apgar to be Assistant Secretary for Housing and Federal Housing Commissioner at the Department of Housing and Urban Development.
The President announced his intention to nominate Kelley S. Coyner to be Administrator of the Research and Special Programs Administration at the Department of Transportation.
The President announced his intention to nominate Carlos Pascual to be the Assistant Administrator for Europe and the New Independent States at the Agency for International Development.
The President announced his intention to appoint Representative Lindsay Thomas to serve as the Federal Commissioner to the Apalachicola-Chattahoochee-Flint River Basin Compact Commission and to the Alabama-Coosa-Tallapoosa River Basin Compact Commission.
The President declared a major disaster in Sedgwick County, KS, and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by an explosion June 8.
June 10
In the evening, the President met with President Leonel Fernandez of the Dominican Republic in the Oval Office.
June 11
In the afternoon, the President attended a luncheon meeting with Members of Congress as part of One America: The President's Initiative on Race.
In the evening, the President and Hillary Clinton hosted a picnic for Members of Congress on the South Lawn.
June 12
In the morning, the President traveled to Monterey, CA, and in the afternoon, he traveled to San Francisco, CA. In the evening, the President traveled to Portland, OR.
The President announced his intention to nominate Steven Robert Mann to be Ambassador to Turkmenistan.
The President announced his intention to nominate Kenneth Spencer Yalowitz to be Ambassador to the Republic of Georgia.
The President announced his intention to nominate James Howard Holmes to be Ambassador to Latvia.
The President declared a major disaster in Oregon and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by flooding May 28-June 3.
  