
    The following list does not include promotions of members of the Uniformed Services, nominations to the Service Academies, or nominations of Foreign Service officers.
Submitted June 23
Martin S. Indyk,
of the District of Columbia, to be an Assistant Secretary of State, vice Robert H. Pelletreau, Jr., resigned.
Submitted June 25
Rudy de Leon, of California, to be Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness, vice Edwin Dorn, resigned.
Sonia Sotomayor, of New York, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the Second Circuit, vice J. Daniel Mahoney, deceased.
Submitted June 26
Gordon D. Giffin, of Georgia, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Canada.
W. Scott Gould,
of the District of Columbia, to be an Assistant Secretary of Commerce, vice Thomas R. Bloom.
W. Scott Gould,
of the District of Columbia, to be Chief Financial Officer, Department of Commerce, vice Thomas R. Bloom.
Maura Harty, of Florida, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Paraguay.
Curtis Warren Kamman,
of the District of Columbia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, to be Ambas sador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Colombia.
James F. Mack, of Virginia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Co-operative Republic of Guyana.
Wendy Ruth Sherman, of Maryland, to be Counselor of the Department of State, and to have the rank of Ambassador during her tenure of service.
Anne Marie Sigmund,
of the District of Columbia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Career Minister, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Kyrgyz Republic.
Keith C. Smith, of California, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Lithuania.
Daniel V. Speckhard, of Wisconsin, career member of the Senior Executive Service, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Belarus.
Jerome B. Friedman, of Virginia, to be U.S. District Judge for the Eastern District of Virginia, vice Robert G. Doumar, retired.
Ronnie L. White, of Missouri, to be U.S. District Judge for the Eastern District of Missouri, vice George F. Gunn, Jr., retired.
George Donohue, of Maryland, to be Deputy Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration, vice Linda Hall Daschle.
Gary Gensler, of Maryland, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Treasury, vice Darcy E. Bradbury.
Nancy Killefer, of Florida, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Treasury, vice George Munoz.
Nancy Killefer, of Florida, to be Chief Financial Officer, Department of the Treasury, vice George Munoz.
George Munoz, of Illinois, to be President of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation, vice Ruth R. Harkin, resigned.
Robert G. Stanton, of Virginia, to be Director of the National Park Service (new position).
Catherine E. Woteki,
of the District of Columbia, to be Under Secretary of Agriculture for Food Safety (new position).
Kneeland C. Youngblood, of Texas, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the United States Enrichment Corporation for a term expiring February 24, 2002 (reappointment).
Submitted June 27
James S. Ware, of California, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the Ninth Circuit, vice J. Clifford Wallace, retired.
Nancy-Ann Min Deparle, of Tennessee, to be Administrator of the Health Care Financing Administration, vice Bruce C. Vladeck.
David A. Lipton, of Massachusetts, to be an Under Secretary of the Treasury, vice Jeffrey R. Shafer, resigned.
  