
    WASHINGTON, DC – Today, President Barack Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individual to a key Administration post:

 Roberta S. Jacobson – Ambassador to the United Mexican States, Department of State 

President Obama also announced his intent to appoint the following individuals to key Administration posts:

 Cary Fowler – Member, Board for International Food and Agricultural Development
 Marvin E. Johnson – Member, Federal Service Impasses Panel, Federal Labor Relations Authority 
 David E. Walker – Member, Federal Service Impasses Panel, Federal Labor Relations Authority 

President Obama said, "These individuals have demonstrated knowledge and dedication throughout their careers. I am grateful they have chosen to take on these important roles, and I look forward to working with them."
President Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individual to a key Administration post:
Roberta S. Jacobson, Nominee for Ambassador to the United Mexican States, Department of State
Roberta S. Jacobson, a career member of the Senior Executive Service, is the Assistant Secretary for Western Hemisphere Affairs at the Department of State, a position she has held since 2012. From 2010 to 2012, she was the Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary for Western Hemisphere Affairs. Previously, Ms. Jacobson served as the Deputy Assistant Secretary for Canada, Mexico, and NAFTA issues from 2007 to 2010 and as Director of the Office of Mexican Affairs from 2003 to 2007. She was Deputy Chief of Mission at the U.S. Embassy in Lima, Peru from 2000 to 2002. From 1989 to 2000, Ms. Jacobson held several roles in the Bureau of Western Hemisphere Affairs, including Director of the Office of Policy Planning and Coordination from 1996 to 2000. She began her career at the Department of State as a Presidential Management Intern. Ms. Jacobson received a B.A. from Brown University and an M.A. from the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts University.
President Obama announced his intent to appoint the following individuals to key Administration posts:
Dr. Cary Fowler, Appointee for Member, Board for International Food and Agricultural Development
Dr. Cary Fowler is a Special Advisor to the Global Crop Diversity Trust, a position he has held since 2012. From 2005 to 2012, Dr. Fowler was the Executive Director of the Global Crop Diversity Trust. Dr. Fowler served at the Norwegian University of Life Sciences' Centre for International Environment and Development as Professor, Deputy Director, and Director of Research from 2003 to 2005. He also served as an advisor to the Secretary-General of the World Food Summit and the Director-General of the International Plant Genetic Resources Institute between 1996 and 2005. From 1993 to 1996, Dr. Fowler was Manager of the International Conference and Programme for Plant Genetic Resources at the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization. Earlier in his career, Dr. Fowler taught at the Agricultural University of Norway and the University of California, Davis. He also served as Program Director of the Rural Advancement Fund's National Sharecroppers Fund from 1978 to 1990. Dr. Fowler currently serves as vice-chair of the Board of Trustees of Rhodes College in Memphis, Tennessee. Dr. Fowler received a B.A. from Simon Fraser University and a Ph.D. from the University of Uppsala.
Marvin E. Johnson, Appointee for Member, Federal Service Impasses Panel, Federal Labor Relations Authority 
Marvin E. Johnson is Executive Director of the Center for Alternative Dispute Resolution, which he founded at Bowie State University in 1986. He has been a Mediator, Arbitrator, and Trainer with Accormend Associates since 1984. Mr. Johnson was Assistant and Associate Professor of Labor Relations, Law, and Dispute Resolution at Bowie State University from 1983 to 2000 and was Adjunct Professor at The Catholic University of America Columbus School of Law from 2008 to 2012. From 1999 to 2002 and from 2009 to 2012, he served as a Member of the Federal Service Impasses Panel. From 2005 to 2007, Mr. Johnson served as a Member of the Foreign Service Grievance Board. He has served on numerous boards and panels including the Association for Conflict Resolution, the American Bar Association Section of Dispute Resolution, the International Academy of Mediators, the American Arbitration Association, and the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service. Mr. Johnson received a B.B.A. from Kent State University, an M.S. from the University of Wisconsin, and a J.D. from The Catholic University of America Columbus School of Law.
David E. Walker, Appointee for Member, Federal Service Impasses Panel, Federal Labor Relations Authority 
David E. Walker is an arbitrator for the Midgulf Association of Stevedores and International Longshoremen's Association Local Union No. 1497 in New Orleans, Louisiana. Since 2004, he has been on the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service Roster of Arbitrators. Mr. Walker served on the Florida/South Florida/Suncoast Expedited Arbitration Panel of the United States Postal Service and the National Central Mail Handlers Union from 2002 to 2005. From 1968 to 2003, he was an attorney in private practice specializing in labor relations. Mr. Walker served as Lieutenant in the United States Air Force from 1962 to 1965. Mr. Walker is also a member of the National Panel of Arbitrators maintained by the American Federation of Government Employees and an arbitrator for the Social Security Administration. Mr. Walker received a B.S. from Louisiana State University, an M.A. from George Washington University, and an L.L.B. from Harvard Law School.
  