
    "President Obama may think the private sector is 'doing fine' and able to handle one of the largest tax hikes in history – but he's looking increasingly isolated. The President's fellow Democrats have finally realized that tax hikes on job creators will only further harm the struggling economy. On Day One, Mitt Romney will take action to reform our tax code and encourage employers to begin hiring again." –Amanda Henneberg, Romney Campaign Spokesperson
Seven Leading Senate Democrats Are Abandoning President Obama's Calls For One Of The Largest Tax Hikes In History:
At Least Seven Leading Senate Democrats Have Balked At President Obama's Calls For One Of The Largest Tax Hikes In History. "A growing number of Senate Democrats are signaling they are not prepared to raise taxes on anyone in the weak economy unless Congress approves a grand bargain to reduce the deficit. At least seven Democratic senators have declined to rule out supporting a temporary extension of the Bush-era income tax rates, breaking with party leaders who have called for letting the rates expire for people earning more than $1 million per year." (Alexander Bolton, "Senate Democrats Balk At Ending Bush-Era Tax Rates For Wealthy," The Hill, 6/19/12)
Senators Jon Tester And Joe Manchin "Have Declined To Endorse" President Obama's Tax Hike Plan. "Democrats running for reelection, such as Sens. Jon Tester (D-Mont.) and Joe Manchin (D-W.Va.), have declined to endorse their leadership's call for a tax increase on wealthy families. Instead, they want Congress to pass a broad package that would cut spending and reform the tax code, which they argue would inject new confidence into the private sector." (Alexander Bolton, "Senate Democrats Balk At Ending Bush-Era Tax Rates For Wealthy," The Hill, 6/19/12)
Senators Jim Webb And Ben Nelson Both Oppose Raising Taxes On Any Individuals And Job Creators. "Retiring Sen. Jim Webb (D-Va.) is holding fast to his position that tax rates should not be raised on any income brackets, and retiring Sen. Ben Nelson (D-Neb.) says that is his position as well, though he appears more flexible on the issue." (Alexander Bolton, "Senate Democrats Balk At Ending Bush-Era Tax Rates For Wealthy," The Hill, 6/19/12)
Senator Mark Pryor Has Refused To Commit To President Obama's Tax Hikes. "Sen. Mark Pryor (D), who faces a 2014 reelection race in Arkansas, the state that saw the biggest shift to the GOP in the 2008 presidential election, says he has not decided whether it might be necessary to extend all the Bush-era income tax rates." (Alexander Bolton, "Senate Democrats Balk At Ending Bush-Era Tax Rates For Wealthy," The Hill, 6/19/12)
Senators Claire McCaskill And Bill Nelson Have Not Ruled Out Extending Tax Relief For All Individuals And Small Business Owners. "Sen. Claire McCaskill (D-Mo.), who has faced a deluge of attack ads by outside groups in her reelection campaign, said she is willing to consider a temporary extension of all Bush tax cuts in the spirit of compromise. Sen. Bill Nelson (D-Fla.), another vulnerable incumbent, likewise would not rule out an extension of all the tax rates." (Alexander Bolton, "Senate Democrats Balk At Ending Bush-Era Tax Rates For Wealthy," The Hill, 6/19/12)
Senate Democrats Are Joining Former President Bill Clinton, Who Earlier This Month Expressed Reservations About Hiking Taxes:
"Former President Bill Clinton Told CNBC Tuesday That The US Economy Already Is In A Recession And Urged Congress To Extend All The Tax Cuts Due To Expire At The End Of The Year." (Jeff Cox, "US Already in 'Recession,' Extend Tax Cuts: Bill Clinton," CNBC, 6/5/12)
Former President Clinton's Position Puts Him "At Odds With Fellow Democratic President Barack Obama." "Former President Bill Clinton on Tuesday jumped into the debate over how to handle the looming expiration of historically low tax rates paid by nearly every American, putting him somewhat at odds with fellow Democratic President Barack Obama. Clinton, speaking on the cable television program CNBC, said Congress may have to temporarily extend all of the low tax rates that expire at the end of the year to give lawmakers more time to come up with a plan to cut deficits." ("Bill Clinton: Extend All Bush-Era Tax Cuts For A Year," Reuters, 6/5/12)
Why Are Democrats Abandoning President Obama? They Have Realized What President Obama Once Knew – "You Don't Raise Taxes" While The Economy Struggles:
President Obama, In August 2009: "The Last Thing You Want To Do Is To Raise Taxes In The Middle Of A Recession." OBAMA: "Well, first of all, he is right. Normally, you don't raise taxes in a recession, which is why we haven't and why we have instead cut taxes. So I guess what I would say to Scott is his economics are right, you don't raise taxes in a recession. ... So he is absolutely right, the last thing you want to do is to raise taxes in the middle of a recession..." ("Obama: We Must 'Help Elkhart Reinvent Itself'," MSNBC.com, 8/5/09)
President Obama, On Raising Taxes On Job Creators: "That Would Just Suck Up — Take More Demand Out Of The Economy And Put Businesses In A Further Hole." ("Obama: We Must 'Help Elkhart Reinvent Itself'," MSNBC.com, 8/5/09)
  