
    The President today announced his intention to appoint the following individuals to be members of the Christopher Columbus Quincentenary Jubilee Commission. These are new positions.
Lee Collins is currently vice president of Bank Hapoalim in Los Angeles, CA. He was born February 16, 1917, in Kearny, NJ, and resides in Beverly Hills, CA.
Virgil C. Dechant is currently the chief executive officer of the Knights of Columbus. He was born September 24, 1930, in Antonino, KS, and resides in Hamden, CT.
Daniel M. DiCarlo, Jr., is currently president of Area Lighting Research. He was born September 14, 1938, in New Castle, PA, and resides in Hackettstown, NJ.
John N. Goudie is currently president of Goudie & Associates Realty. He was born October 8, 1945, in Havana, Cuba, and resides in Miami, FL.
Herbert Cameron Haight is currently an insurance agent with Lutheran Mutual Life. He was born October 23, 1932, in San Francisco, CA, and resides in Spokane, WA.
William Hardy McNeill is currently the Robert A. Milliken Distinguished Service Professor of History at the University of Chicago. He was born October 31, 1917, in Vancouver, Canada, and resides in Chicago, IL.
James J. O'Connor is chairman, president, and chief executive officer of Commonwealth Edison Co. He was born March 15, 1937, in Chicago, IL, and resides in Evanston, IL.
Venrendo S. Sequenzia is currently publisher of the Florida Italian Bulletin and the Connecticut Italian Bulletin. He was born August 3, 1917, in Sortino, Italy, and resides in Fort Lauderdale, FL.
Arthur E. Teele, Jr., is currently president of the National Business League in Washington, DC, and is a partner with the law firm of Sparber, Shevin, Shapo and Heilbronner in Miami, FL. He was born May 14, 1946, in Washington, DC, and resides there.
Upon the recommendation of the majority leader of the Senate, in consultation with the minority leader of the Senate:
Mary Jane Checchi is currently a freelance consultant. She was born December 10, 1945, in Calais, ME, and resides in Washington, DC.
Luis A. Ferre is currently State chairman of the Republican Party of Puerto Rico, president of the Luis A. Ferre Foundation, and founder and trustee of the Ponce Museum of Art. He was born February 17, 1904, in Ponce, PR, and resides in San Juan.
Jayne H. Plank is currently Director for Intergovernmental Affairs, Office of Legislative and Intergovernmental Affairs, U.S. Department of State. She was born March 10, 1933, in Washington, DC, and resides in Washington.
Charles William Polzer is currently an ethnohistorian at the Arizona State Museum. He was born December 1, 1930, in San Diego, CA, and resides in Tucson, AZ.
Peter F. Secchia is currently chairman of the board of Universal Companies. He was born April 15, 1937, in Tenafly, NJ, and resides in Grand Rapids, MI.
Michael A. Valerio is currently the owner and chairman of the board of Papa Gino's of America, Inc. He was born August 1, 1931, in Villa Latina, Italy, and resides in Framingham, MA.
Upon the recommendation of the Speaker of the House of Representatives, in consultation with the minority leader of the House of Representatives:
Mario Cuomo is currently the Governor of the State of New York. He was born June 15, 1932, in Queens, NY, and resides in Holliswood, NY.
Aldo Annuzzio DeAngelis is currently an Illinois State senator and assistant minority leader. He was born March 25, 1931, in Chicago Heights, IL, and resides in Olympia Fields, IL.
Eugene C. D'Angelo, Jr., is currently president of WBNS and WTHR Television. He was born July 31, 1928, in Columbus, OH, and resides in Dublin, OH.
Arthur J. Decio is currently chairman of the board and chief executive officer of Skyline Corp. He was born October 19, 1930, in Elkhart, IN, and resides in Elkhart.
Jane Lee Garcia is currently president of the Bronx Museum of the Arts. She was born November 8, 1940, in Colorado Springs, CO, and resides in the Bronx, NY.
Charles N. Ginoli is currently president of Ginoli & Co., Ltd. He was born June 7, 1918, in Spring Valley, IL, and resides in Peoria.
Henry Raymont is currently president of Mondus Novus Foundation, Inc. He was born April 21, 1927, in Koenigsberg, Germany, and resides in Washington, DC.
  