
    List Of CA Endorsers Reflects Harris' Growing Strength In Critical Primary State
Today, Congressman Jim Costa of California announced his endorsement of Senator Kamala Harris for President, pointing to her new plan to protect the millions of Dreamers in this country. Costa has represented California's Central Valley since 2005.
"Kamala Harris has proposed a bold plan to give millions of Dreamers the certainty and security they deserve," said Congressman Costa. "Whether as District Attorney, Attorney General, or United States Senator, I have been working with Kamala Harris to protect immigrant children and fight pollution that harms the farmers of the Central Valley. Kamala has consistently been a champion for all Americans, and I am proud to endorse her campaign for President."
"I am honored to have Congressman Jim Costa's endorsement," said Senator Harris. "Jim has been a reliable partner and I have seen, up close, his work for the Central Valley's residents, to ensure they have clean and reliable water and affordable and accessible health care. I look forward to working with him to ensure the voices of farmers and producers in the Central Valley and across the country are uplifted and heard."
Costa joins more than 80 California state, local, and municipal leaders in backing Harris, including Members of Congress Barbara Lee, Ted Lieu, Katie Hill, Julia Brownley and Nanette Barragan and Governor Gavin Newsom, Lt. Governor Eleni Kounalakis, Secretary of State Alex Padilla, State Treasurer Fiona Ma, Superintendent of Public Instruction Tony Thurmond, Insurance Commissioner Ricardo Lara, 22 members of the State Senate Democratic Caucus including President Pro Tempore Toni Atkins, 33 Democratic members of the California Assembly, including Speaker Anthony Rendon, civil rights leader Dolores Huerta, San Jose Mayor Sam Liccardo, San Francisco Mayor London Breed, Sacramento Mayor Darrell Steinberg, Long Beach Mayor Robert Garcia, Oakland Mayor Libby Schaaf and Compton Mayor Aja Brown.
  