
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate four individuals, designate two individuals and appoint two individuals to serve in his Administration:
The President intends to nominate Henry Crumpton, of Virginia, to be Coordinator for Counterterrorism at the Department of State, with the rank of Ambassador at Large. Mr. Crumpton currently serves as Chief of the National Resources Division of the Central Intelligence Agency. He previously served as Chief of the Counterterrorism Center/Special Operations at the CIA. Earlier in his career, Mr. Crumpton served as Deputy Chief of the International Terrorism Operations Section of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. He earned his bachelor's degree from the University of New Mexico and his master's degree from Johns Hopkins University, School of Advanced International Studies.
The President intends to nominate Benjamin A. Powell, of Florida, to be General Counsel of the Office of Director of National Intelligence. Mr. Powell currently serves as Associate Counsel to the President. He previously served as Corporate Counsel to Vitria Technology, Incorporated. Prior to this position, Mr. Powell served as an Associate with Kellogg, Huber, Hansen, Todd and Evans law firm. He previously served as a Law Clerk to United States Supreme Court Justices Byron R. White and John Paul Stevens. Earlier in his career, Mr. Powell served as a Captain in the United States Air Force. He earned his bachelor's degree from the University of Pennsylvania and his J.D. from Columbia University.
The President intends to nominate Ronald Spogli, of California, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Italy. Mr. Spogli currently serves as a Partner with Freeman Spogli & Company in Los Angeles, California. He previously served as Managing Director of the Investment Banking Division at Dean Witter Reynolds Incorporated. Mr. Spogli previously served as Vice President of the firm's Los Angeles Corporate Finance Department. He earned his bachelor's degree from Stanford University and his master's degree from Harvard University.
The President intends to nominate Robert H. Tuttle, of California, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of Amer ica to the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. Mr. Tuttle currently serves as Co-Managing Partner of Tuttle-Click Automotive Group. He previously served as Assistant to the President and Director for Presidential Personnel for President Ronald Reagan. Mr. Tuttle earned his bachelor's degree from Stanford University and his master's degree from the University of Southern California.
The President intends to designate Paul W. Curry, of Florida, to be Acting Assistant Secretary of the Treasury (Management).
The President intends to re-designate LaSalle Doheny Leffall, Jr., of the District of Columbia, to be Chairman of the President's Cancer Panel, for a one-year term beginning May 29, 2005.
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the Policy Committee of the White House Conference on Aging:
Michael O. Leavitt of Utah
Jim Nicholson of Colorado
  