
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
June 4
In the morning, the President and Mrs. Clinton traveled from Rome, Italy, to Royal Air Force station Mildenhall, United Kingdom, where they were greeted by Prime Minister John Major. They then traveled to the U.S. Cemetery at Cambridge, where the President visited the Wall of the Missing. Later, the President and Mrs. Clinton traveled to Chequers, the Prime Minister's residence in North Aylesbury.
In the afternoon, the President traveled to Hartwell House, near Aylesbury. In the late afternoon, the President and Hillary Clinton traveled to Portsmouth where they were greeted by Queen Elizabeth II aboard the royal yacht H.M.Y.Britannia . Later they traveled to Guildhall, Portsmouth, where they attended a dinner hosted by the Queen. Following the dinner, they returned to the H.M.Y.Britannia , where they remained overnight.
June 5
In the morning the President and Hillary Clinton traveled to Southsea Common, Portsmouth, for the Drumhead ceremony, commemorating the blessing of the fleet which sailed to Normandy. They then returned to the H.M.Y.Britannia .
In the afternoon, aboard the H.M.Y.Britannia with allied leaders they reviewed the flotilla which was en route to Normandy and participated in a commemoration of the embarkation of the fleet for D-Day. Later the President visited World War II and Normandy merchant marine veterans aboard the U.S.S.Jeremiah O'Brien . The President and Hillary Clinton then boarded the U.S.S.George Washington and sailed for Normandy, France, arriving off the coast in the evening.
June 6
In the morning, following his remarks at Pointe du Hoc, the President and Hillary Clinton visited the cliff of Pointe du Hoc with Rangers and greeted their families.
In the afternoon, the President and Hillary Clinton traveled to Caen, France, where they attended a luncheon for visiting leaders hosted by President Mitterrand at the Caen Prefecture. Later they traveled to Omaha Beach where they joined American veterans and other leaders at an international ceremony commemorating the invasion.
In the evening, following his remarks at the U.S. cemetery at Colleville-sur-Mer above Omaha Beach, the President met with American veterans on the beach. The President and Hillary Clinton then traveled to Paris.
June 7
In the morning, after greeting the U.S. Embassy staff at the Ambassador's residence, the President met with U.S. business executives based in Paris and French business leaders.
In the afternoon, the President and Hillary Clinton attended a luncheon hosted by Prime Minister Edouard Balladur in the Salle de Conseil at the Hotel Matignon.
The President announced his intention to nominate Clay Constantinou as Ambassador to Luxembourg.
The President announced his intention to nominate Michael J. Gaines as a member of the National Appeals Board of the U.S. Parole Commission.
The President announced that he intends to appoint Robert C. Nelson and has already appointed Claudine Schneider as members of the Competitiveness Policy Council.
The President announced his intention to appoint David B. Roosevelt and Lester S. Hyman as members of the Franklin Delano Roosevelt Memorial Commission.
June 8
In the morning, the President and Hillary Clinton traveled to Oxford, United Kingdom, where they attended a luncheon hosted by the chancellor of Oxford University at the Dining Hall, Commons, University College. Later, the President greeted American students attending the university at Rhodes House, Oxford.
In the evening, the President and Mrs. Clinton returned to Washington, DC.
The President announced his intention to appoint Sheila M. McGuire as a member of the Risk Assessment and Management Commission.
June 9
The President announced his intention to nominate the Honorable Brian J. Donnelly as Ambassador to Trinidad and Tobago.
The President announced his intention to appoint John M. Bernal as the U.S. Commissioner of the International Boundary and Water Commission—United States and Mexico.
  