
    Verona, PA - Former Senator Rick Santorum (R-PA) today announced his senior media and communications team for his presidential campaign.
John Brabender will serve as a Senior Advisor and Media Consultant to the Rick Santorum for President campaign. In addition to serving as Senator Santorum's media consultant since his first congressional race in 1990, Mr. Brabender, Chief Creative Officer of BrabenderCox, has directed a team that has produced some of the nation's most acclaimed and successful media campaigns. In the last cycle alone, BrabenderCox was involved in some of the largest statewide victories in the country including Governor Tom Corbett's successful run in Pennsylvania, Senator David Vitter's dramatic reelection in Louisiana and Senator Tom Coburn's victory in Oklahoma. BrabenderCox was also retained by the Republican Governors Association for the successful Wisconsin governor's race as well as being retained by the National Republican Senatorial Campaign's independent expenditure unit for the successful U.S. Senate race in Pennsylvania.
Virginia Davis will serve as a Senior Communications Advisor and Spokeswoman for the Senator, providing strategic communications advice to the campaign. Mrs. Davis previously served as Press Secretary to Senator Santorum's 2006 Senate campaign, as well as a communications advisor to his America's Foundation PAC from 2007 - 2011. Prior to joining Senator Santorum's team, Davis served as Press Secretary to Senator Richard Shelby and Deputy Press Secretary to Senator John Thune's 2002 Senate campaign.
Matthew Beynon will serve as Deputy Communications Director to the campaign, where he will implement the campaign's overall media and policy strategy, serve as the primary point of contact for all media requests, and handle Senator Santorum's national media outreach. Mr. Beynon previously served as a legislative aide to Senator Santorum from 2003 - 2007. Since leaving Senator Santorum's Capitol Hill office, Beynon has served as an advisor to the Senator's America's Foundation PAC and a consultant with a Pittsburgh-based management consulting firm.
Leading Senator Santorum's new media operations will be emotive, llc, led by Peter Pasi. Emotive has earned a reputation as one of the most creative e-campaign consulting teams in politics today. Emotive's previous clients include Governor John Kasich, Senator Mitch McConnell, the Republican National Committee, the Club for Growth, and American Crossroads.
"I am thrilled to have the continued counsel and support of John, Virginia, and Matt, as well as the fantastic addition of Peter and the emotive team," said Senator Santorum, who announced his candidacy for president earlier this month. "I am confident that this group of tireless and trusted advisors will successfully advance and articulate our campaign's message of freedom and faith in the American people.
Seth Leibsohn, who was announced earlier this year as Director of Policy and Speechwriting, will also be a part of the communications team.
  