
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate eight individuals to serve in his Administration:
The President intends to nominate Jay M. Cohen, of New York, to be Under Secretary for Science and Technology at the Department of Homeland Security. Admiral Cohen is currently a Retired Rear Admiral of the United States Navy. He has served the United States Navy for over 35 years. He most recently served as Chief of Naval Research at the Department of the Navy. Earlier in his career, he served as Deputy Director for Operations to the Joint Staff at the Pentagon. Admiral Cohen received his bachelor's degree from the United States Naval Academy and his master's degree from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
The President intends to nominate Sean T. Connaughton, of Virginia, to be Administrator of the Maritime Administration at the Department of Transportation. Mr. Connaughton currently works as Of Counsel for Troutman Sanders LLP. He also serves as Chairman of the Prince William Board of County Supervisors. Prior to this, he worked as an Attorney at Eckert Seamans Cherin & Mellott. Earlier in his career, he served as Senior Transportation Associate for the American Petroleum Institute. Mr. Connaughton received his bachelor's degree from the United States Merchant Marine Academy and his master's degree from Georgetown University. He went on to receive his JD from George Mason University.
The President intends to nominate the following individuals to be Members of the National Institute for Literacy Advisory Board:
Carmel Borders, of Kentucky, for the remainder of a three-year term expiring November 25, 2008
Donald D. Deshler, of Kansas, for the remainder of a three-year term expiring January 30, 2008
Blanca E. Enriquez, of Texas, for the remainder of a three-year term expiring January 30, 2009
Patricia Mathes, of Texas, for the remainder of a three-year term expiring November 25, 2007
Eliza McFadden, of Florida, for the remainder of a three-year term expiring January 30, 2009
Timothy Shanahan, of Illinois, for the remainder of a three-year term expiring November 25, 2007
  