
    DENVER — Bennet for America today announced Michael Bennet has qualified for the first Democratic presidential debates and raised more than $2 million.
The news comes just one month after Bennet launched his campaign for president.
"In the last month, Michael has told the American people the truth, and it's clear that's what they have been waiting to hear. Our campaign has the resources to compete and build the groundwork for a sustainable, long-term campaign," said Bennet For America campaign spokesperson Shannon Beckham. "It's a shame the DNC has set up a system to reward cable TV hits and short-term fundraising tactics, instead of facilitating a competition of ideas. The DNC should be lifting up credible voices—not excluding them. Regardless of DNC power plays, Michael knows that winning in 2020 starts in living rooms across America."
Bennet received the required support in today's national CNN poll—his third qualifying poll to meet the Democratic National Committee polling criteria for the first debates in June. Bennet entered the race later than planned due to an unanticipated prostate cancer diagnosis and operation. As a result, Bennet has received a clean bill of health.
Bennet for America today also announced the campaign has raised more than $2 million. More than 80 percent of the campaign's donations are $25 or less, and more than 92 percent of the donations are $100 or less. Bennet's performance last Thursday in his first live CNN town hall resulted in the greatest number of individual donations in a 24-hour period since the launch of the campaign.
Bennet has focused his early campaigning in Iowa, New Hampshire, and South Carolina, talking to voters about his plan to create economic opportunity for all Americans. He also has drawn a contrast with other candidates, driving the national conversation on Medicare-X, a public option that would provide Americans the choice of purchasing private or public insurance and lead to universal coverage, and on climate change in unveiling America's Climate Change Plan, his ambitious approach to build a constituency for change that results in real, immediate action.
  