
    Pool Reports by Gromer Jeffers, The Dallas Morning News 



Sent:
Reports:




June 20, 2023 17:52 CDT

VP travel pool report #1
The VP arrived at about 5:20 p.m. at a private North Dallas home for a fundraiser. Big crowd with lots of Dallas-area politicos, including former U.S. Trade Rep. Ron Kirk. I'm told the VP is doing a photo line meet and great. I noticed at least one of her classmates from Howard University outside the event. Earlier today the VP was scheduled to record an interview for the Joy Reid show on MSNBC. She's scheduled to speak at the fundraiser, which is for the 2024 campaign, shortly.
Below is a preview of her day in Dallas.
https://www.dallasnews.com/news/politics/2023/06/20/vp-kamala-harris-heads-to-dallas-to-woo-donors-and-talk-abortion-rights-in-roes-hometown/


June 20, 2023 20:48 CDT

VP travel pool report #2
The vice president began her remarks at 6:08 p.m. She first remarked about the weather. She spoke for just over 15 minutes.
"Texas is hot," she said.
Harris then thanked those in attendance for supporting the Biden-Harris ticket in 2020, as well the 2022 midterm elections.
She said 2024 was yet another important contest, urging the crowd to support the Biden-Harris ticket in order to protect their freedoms.
"Right now we have so-called leaders, extremists..., who are on a full-on attack against hard won freedoms," she said."We must stand up for what we believe in as a country."
Another quote:"The highest court in our land just took a constitutional right that had been recognized from the women of America," she said "One does not have to abandon their faith, or deeply held beliefs to agree the government should not be telling her what to do."
The fundraiser was at the home of Dallas businessman Randy Bowman and Dallas lawyer Jill Louis.
Louis went to school with Harris at Howard University. They are sorority sisters.
In attendance was former U.S. Trade Rep. Ron Kirk, former Rep. Eddie Bernice Johnson and former Dallas County Sheriff Lupe Valdez.



  