
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate nineteen individuals, appoint four individuals, and designate three individuals to serve in his Administration:
The President intends to nominate Geoffrey S. Bacino, of Illinois, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Federal Housing Finance Board, for the remainder of a seven-year term expiring February 27, 2013. Mr. Bacino currently serves as Senior Vice President for Legislative and Regulatory Affairs at Centrix Financial. Prior to this, he served as a Principal of Bacino Group. Earlier in his career, he was President of Bacino & Associates. Mr. Bacino has served as a Member of the National Credit Union Administration.
The President intends to nominate Michael V. Dunn, of Iowa, to be a Commissioner of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, for an additional five-year term expiring June 19, 2011. Mr. Dunn currently serves as Commissioner of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission. Prior to this, he served as Director of the Office of Policy Analysis for the Farm Credit Administration. Earlier in his career, he served as Under Secretary for Marketing and Regulatory Programs at the Department of Agriculture. Mr. Dunn received his bachelor's and master's degrees from the University of New Mexico.
The President intends to nominate Thomas C. Foley, of Connecticut, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Ireland. Mr. Foley is currently President of NTC Group, where he has served for over 20 years. Mr. Foley serves concurrently as Chairman of TB Wood's Corporation and Stevens Aviation. He also served in Iraq as the Director of Private Sector Development for the Coalition Provisional Authority. Mr. Foley received his bachelor's and master's degrees from Harvard University.
The President intends to nominate Nancy Montanez-Johner, of Nebraska, to be Under Secretary of Agriculture for Food, Nutrition, and Consumer Services and Member of the Board of Directors of the Commodity Credit Corporation. Ms. Montanez-Johner currently serves as Director of the Nebraska Department of Health and Human Services. Prior to this, she was the Nebraska Department of Health and Human Services Chief Executive Officer for the Western Service Area. Earlier in her career, she worked in the Professional Partner Program at Region III Behavioral Health Services. Ms. Montanez-Johner received her bachelor's degree from the University of Nebraska at Kearney.
The President intends to nominate the following individuals to be Members of the National Council on the Humanities, for the remainder of six-year terms expiring January 26, 2012:

  Josiah Bunting, III, of Rhode Island
Mary Habeck, of Maryland
Robert S. Martin, of Texas
Wilfred M. McClay, of Tennessee
Manfredi Piccolomini, of New York
Jay Winik, of Maryland
Kenneth R. Weinstein, of the District of Columbia

The President intends to nominate the following individuals to be Members of the National Science Board (National Science Foundation):

  Mark R. Abbott, of Oregon, for the remainder of a six-year term expiring May 10, 2012.
Camilla Persson Benbow, of Tennessee, for the remainder of a six-year term expiring May 10, 2012.
John T. Bruer, of Missouri, for the remainder of a six-year term expiring May 10, 2012.
Patricia D. Galloway, of Washington, for the remainder of a six-year term expiring May 10, 2012.
Jose Marie Griffiths, of Pennsylvania, for the remainder of a six-year term expiring May 10, 2012.
Karl Hess, of Illinois, for the remainder of a six-year term expiring May 10, 2008.
Thomas N. Taylor, of Kansas, for the remainder of a six-year term expiring May 10, 2012.
Richard F. Thompson, of California, for the remainder of a six-year term expiring May 10, 2012.

The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the President's Council on Service and Civic Participation, for two-year terms:

  Janine L. Gauntt, of Texas
Angela Baraquio Grey, of Hawaii
Kelly Perdew, of California
Daniel C. Wuerffel, of Florida
The President intends to designate Jean M. Case, of Virginia, to be Chairman of the President's Council on Service Civic Participation.

The President intends to designate the following individuals:
Daniel Pearson, of Minnesota, to be Chairman of the United States International Trade Commission, for a two-year term beginning June 17, 2006
Shara L. Aranoff, of Maryland, to be Vice Chairman of the United States International Trade Commission, for a two-year term beginning June 17, 2006
  