
    "In confronting these dangers, we know that weakness is the surest path to conflict, and unmatched power is the surest means of our defense." – President Donald J. Trump
AMERICA FIRST FOREIGN POLICY: President Donald J. Trump led America's return to leadership on the international stage, while prioritizing America's interests.

American leadership, security, prosperity, and accountability has been strengthened by President Trump.

American leadership in the world has been re-asserted, vital investments in our military have been secured, and threats to our national security interests have been confronted. 



CONFRONTING THE TERROR THREAT: The Trump Administration has devastated ISIS' self-declared caliphate and curbed the global threat of terror against the United States and its allies.

Trump Administration policy has led to the near total destruction of ISIS' self-declared caliphate, including the liberation of all Iraqi territory from ISIS control.

Of ISIS' total territorial loss, at least 50 percent occurred under President Trump. 


A punishing series of sanctions has been unveiled by the Trump Administration, targeting the supporters of terrorism around the globe. 
The new National Vetting Center was established by the Trump Administration to ensure those who come to the United States do not pose a threat to domestic security. 

RESTORING AMERICA'S STRENGTH: The President has secured funding to rebuild our military and support our troops with the resources they deserve.

Historic increases in defense funding were secured by President Trump in order to rebuild our Nation's military and provide our troops with the resources they need. 
President Trump signed legislation to provide $700 billion in defense spending for fiscal year (FY) 2018 and $716 billion for FY 2019 and a 2.4 percent pay raise for our servicemembers. 

STANDING BY OUR WORD AND OUR ALLIES: President Trump has ended decades of talk and restored the credibility of America's word on the international stage.

President Trump has made significant progress toward the denuclearization of the Korean peninsula, after decades of unsuccessful policies. 
After decades of unfulfilled promises from presidential candidates of both parties, President Trump recognized Jerusalem as the capital of Israel and moved the U.S. Embassy there. 
President Trump ordered strikes against Syria in response to the regime's use of chemical weapons in April 2017 and April 2018. 
17 Americans held overseas have returned under President Trump's leadership. 

NO MORE BAD DEALS: President Trump has ended US participation in the Iran deal (JCPOA), which put at risk America's national security.

President Trump terminated the United States' participation in the defective and one-sided Iran deal, which allowed Iran's military spending to increase 40 percent.

By re-imposing sanctions, President Trump shows we no longer makes empty threats. 
The President is working with our allies to find a comprehensive and lasting solution to the nuclear threat, including eliminating Iran's ballistic missile program. 



  