
    The President today announced the appointments of the 1991 - 1992 White House fellows. This is the 27th class of fellows since the program was established in 1964. Sixteen fellows were chosen from nearly 800 applicants who were screened by 11 regional panels. The President's Commission on White House Fellowships, chaired by Ronna Romney, interviewed the 32 national finalists prior to recommending the 16 persons to the President. Their year of government service will begin September 1, 1991.
Fellows serve for 1 year as members of the White House staff or as special assistants to members of the Cabinet. In addition to the work assignments, the fellowship includes an education program that parallels and broadens the unique experience of working at the highest levels of the Federal Government. The program is open to U.S. citizens in the early stages of their careers and from all occupations and professions. Federal Government employees are not eligible, with the exception of career Armed Forces personnel. Leadership, character, intellectual and professional ability, and commitment to community and national service are the principal criteria employed in the selection of fellows.
Applications for the 1992 - 1993 program may be obtained by contacting the President's Commission on White House Fellowships, 712 Jackson Place, NW., Washington, DC 20503.
The 1991 - 1992 White House fellows are:
Anderson, Betsy L., of New York, NY, is a corporate attorney associated with Davis, Polk & Wardwell in New York City. Ms. Anderson, a Rhodes scholar, received a B.A. degree in jurisprudence from Oxford University in 1982 and a J.D. degree from the Yale Law School in 1984. Following graduation from Yale, she served for 2 years as a law clerk to the Honorable Charles S. Haight, Jr., U.S. District Judge for the Southern District of New York. Ms. Anderson was born October 5, 1956, in Phelps, WI.
Broz, Joseph S., of Evergreen, CO, a theoretical physicist, received a bachelor's degree in physics from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) in Cambridge. He recently obtained a doctorate from the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology in Zurich, Switzerland. While an undergraduate, he founded a consulting practice in energy research and development and in 1985 cofounded a joint U.S.-French public manufacturing company. Dr. Broz was born November 7, 1956, in Omaha, NE.
Caldwell, William B., IV, of Columbus, GA, serves as a major in the U.S. Army assigned to the 82d Airborne Division stationed at Fort Bragg, NC. He graduated from the U.S. Military Academy, West Point, NY, in 1976. Major Caldwell received a master of science degree in systems technology from the Naval Postgraduate School and a master of arts degree in combined operations from the Army Command and General Staff College. A published military author, he is the recipient of the Hannibal Award for Leadership, which he earned at West Point, and the coveted Master Tactician Award while at the Command and General Staff College. Major Caldwell was born January 24, 1954, in Columbus, GA.
Colmenares, Margarita H., of Los Angeles, CA, is an executive of the Chevron Corp., El Segundo, CA. She is on loan to the Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers, Los Angeles, where she is completing her second term as national president. Ms. Colmenares received a bachelor's degree in civil engineering from Stanford University in 1981. She has participated in Leadership America, the American Center for International Leadership, and programs associated with the National Hispana Leadership Institute. Ms. Colmenares was born July 20, 1957, in Sacramento, CA.
Cox, Darlene Louise, of Newark, NJ, is chief nursing administrator, University Hospital, University of Medicine & Dentistry, Newark, NJ. She graduated from Cornell University-New York Hospital School of Nursing in 1974, where she excelled in the maternal-child and psychiatric nursing specialties. Ms. Cox received a master's degree in nursing from the University of Michigan in 1980. She plays a major leadership, management, and policy role in her present position. Ms. Cox was born August 13, 1952, in Harrisburg, PA.
Douglas, Charlene Yvonne, of Cleveland, OH, is a nurse and teacher who specializes in public and community-based health programs. She received a bachelor of arts degree in American studies in 1975 and a bachelor of science degree in nursing from Case Western Reserve University in 1978. In 1981 she received a master of public health degree from Johns Hopkins School of Hygiene and Public Health and is presently a Ph.D. candidate at the same institution. Ms. Douglas is a specialist in occupational health and health psychology. She was born August 19, 1953, in Cleveland, OH.
Gray, W. Scott, of Alexandria, Virginia, is a lieutenant commander in the U.S. Navy, assigned to the Naval Sea Systems Command in Washington, DC. He graduated from the U.S. Naval Academy in 1979 with a bachelor of science degree in mechanical engineering. In 1981 he successfully completed the Navy's rigorous nuclear power training program and since has held various assignments as a nuclear submarine officer. Lieutenant Commander Gray was born June 30, 1957, in Providence, RI.
Hagerott, Mark R., of Kent, WA, is a lieutenant in the U.S. Navy, assigned to the Office of the Chief of Naval Operations, Washington, DC, as a political-military specialist. Lieutenant Hagerott received a B.S. degree in history from the U.S. Naval Academy in 1983. He was later selected as a Rhodes scholar and attended Oxford University, where he earned an M.A. degree in politics and economics in 1985. Lieutenant Hagerott was born March 4, 1961, in Wayne, MI.
Hagerty, William F., IV, of Tokyo, Japan, is an international management consultant with the Boston Consulting Group, Inc., in Tokyo. He received a B.A. degree in economics and business administration from Vanderbilt University in 1981 and received a J.D. degree from Vanderbilt Law School in 1984. Mr. Hagerty, noted for his expertise concerning U.S.-Japan trade issues, serves as the director of the American Chamber of Commerce's Market Japan program in Tokyo. He was born August 14, 1959, in Nashville, TN.
Harker, Patrick Timothy, of Cherry Hill, NJ, is an associate professor of decision science at the Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania, and director of the Fishman-Davidson Center for the Study of the Service Sector. Dr. Harker graduated from the University of Pennsylvania in 1981, where he earned a B.S.E. degree in civil engineering. Dr. Harker then entered graduate school where he earned an M.A. in economics and a Ph.D. in civil engineering; both degrees were awarded in 1983. He was born November 19, 1958, in Camden, NJ.
Johns, Raymond E., Jr., of Westwood, NJ, is a lieutenant colonel in the U.S. Air Force, currently assigned as a test squadron commander at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, OH. He graduated from the U.S. Air Force Academy in 1977 with a B.S. degree in aeronautical engineering, and after graduation he attended pilot training at Williams Air Force Base, AZ, where he was named a distinguished graduate. In 1987 he received an M.S. degree in administration from Central Michigan University. Lieutenant Colonel Johns was born December 7, 1954, in Teaneck, NJ.
Kutchins, Alison B., of San Francisco, CA, until recently a vice president of the investment banking division of Goldman, Sachs & Co., San Francisco. In 4 years she earned both a B.S. degree in economics and a master's degree in management from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, graduating in 1982. Ms. Kutchins was born May 22, 1960, in Chicago, IL.
McCowan, Rod A., of Lawton, OK, is manager of several major higher education accounts for International Business Machines Corp., U.S. Marketing & Services, Rockville, MD. Mr. McCowan graduated from the University of Oklahoma in 1984 with a B.A. degree in ethics and religion. In 1985 he earned a master's degree in social and professional ethics from Yale University Divinity School, and in 1990 earned a master's degree in public policy from the John F. Kennedy School of Government, Harvard University. Mr. McCowan was born January 15, 1959, in Lawton, OK.
Miller, Matthew Louis, of New York, NY, is an associate with McKinsey & Co. in New York City. He received a B.A. degree in economics, magna cum laude, from Brown University in 1983, having spent his junior year at the London School of Economics. In 1986 he received a law degree from Columbia University School of Law, where he was editor of the Columbia Law Review. Mr. Miller was born November 20, 1961, in New York, NY.
Thoman, Sally J., of Bakersfield, CA, is an advanced systems manager in the space and communications division of TRW's electronic systems group, Redondo Beach, CA. In 1979 she received a bachelor of science degree in electrical engineering from the University of Southern California. She was a trustee scholar and one of five graduates named to the Order of Troy. Ms. Thoman was born February 20, 1957, in Bakersfield, CA.
Young, George Haywood, III, of New York, NY, is a vice president in the mergers and acquisitions group of The First Boston Corp., New York City. In 1982 he received a B.A. with honors in international relations and political science from Brown University. In 1983 he earned an M. Phil. in international relations from Magdalene College, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, England. Mr. Young earned a master's of public and private management degree from Yale School of Organization and Management in 1987. He was born February 10, 1959, in Washington, DC.
  