
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
May 30
In the afternoon, the President and Hillary Clinton attended a brunch with a small group of Georgetown University alumni at Blair House. In the evening, they hosted a gala for the 30th anniversary Georgetown University class of 1968 on the South Lawn.
June 1
The President announced his intention to nominate Edward L. Romero to be Ambassador to Andorra.
The President announced his intention to appoint Jamie Rappaport Clark to serve as a Commissioner, U.S. Government Representative, of the Great Lakes Fisheries Commission.
The President declared a major disaster in South Dakota and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by floods, severe storms, and tornadoes.
June 2
In the morning, the President traveled to Houston, TX. While en route aboard Air Force One, he had separate telephone conversations with the following individuals: Marissa Rene Marino, a cancer patient who was to be at the arrival in Houston but had to receive chemotherapy in California; Susan Goldwater, widow of the late Barry M. Goldwater, to inform her that Secretary of the Interior Bruce Babbitt would attend Mr. Goldwater's funeral on June 3; and Director of Central Intelligence George Tenet concerning nuclear proliferation in South Asia.
In the afternoon, the President briefly visited former Senator and Treasury Secretary Lloyd Bentsen. Later, he traveled to Dallas, TX. In the evening, he returned to Washington, DC, arriving after midnight.
June 3
In the morning, the President traveled to Cleveland, OH, and in the afternoon, he returned to Washington, DC.
The White House announced that the President will travel to China June 25-July 3.
June 5
In the morning, the President traveled to Cambridge, MA, and in the afternoon, he traveled to Lincoln, MA. In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC.
The President announced his intention to nominate Michael H. Trujillo to be Director of the Indian Health Service.
The President announced his intention to appoint Ertharin Cousin Moore as a member of the Board for International Food and Agricultural Development.
  