
    Pool Reports by Alex Steil, Minnesota Daily 



Sent:
Reports:




June 24, 2023 10:41 CDT

FLOTUS MN Travel Pool Report no. 1 - Checking In
Good morning all,
My name is Alex Steil and I will be serving as your print-pooler for the Minnesota leg of the First Lady's visit today.
Currently, your pooler is holding at the airport. We're expecting wheels down just after 11:00.
Here is the public schedule sent from the White House last night for some Minneapolis/Swiftie-apolis events.
At 11:45 AM, the First Lady will arrive at the Minneapolis–Saint Paul International Airport in Minneapolis, MN. This arrival will be open press and registration is closed.
At 12:45 PM, the First Lady will deliver remarks at a political event for the Biden Victory Fund in Minneapolis, MN. The First Lady's remarks will be covered by a print pooler only.
In the afternoon, the First Lady will celebrate Pride month at a local stop in Minneapolis, MN. This stop will be covered by a print pooler.
Please let me know if you have any questions throughout the day. 


June 24, 2023 12:02 CDT

FLOTUS MN Travel Pool Report no. 2 - Wheels Down
We have a wheels down at 11:56.
Greeter information is being passed along from the White House:
Greeting the First Lady on arrival in Minneapolis:  U.S. Representative Ilhan Omar  Mayor Melvin Carter, City of St. Paul Sakeena Carter, Spouse of Mayor Melvin Carter Colonel Ethan Hinkins, USAF, Commander, 934th Airlift Wing Master Sergeant Matthew Hendrickson, USAF Senior Enlisted Representative, 934th Airlift Wing


June 24, 2023 12:25 CDT

FLOTUS MN Travel Pool Report no. 3 - Deplaned/Rolling
FLOTUS deplaned in a pink blazer at 12:05 and we started rolling quickly after at 12:08.
Again, passing along greeter and background information from the White House:
Greeting the First Lady on arrival in Minneapolis:  U.S. Representative Ilhan Omar  Mayor Melvin Carter, City of St. Paul Sakeena Carter, Spouse of Mayor Melvin Carter Colonel Ethan Hinkins, USAF, Commander, 934th Airlift Wing Master Sergeant Matthew Hendrickson, USAF Senior Enlisted Representative, 934th Airlift Wing
Background on behalf of the Biden-Harris campaign: The First Lady's fundraiser in Minneapolis is at the home of Jim and Mary Lawrence in support of the Biden Victory Fund. 


June 24, 2023 13:20 CDT

FLOTUS MN Travel Pool Report no. 4 - Arrival at Fundraiser
We arrived at the fundraiser, held at a private residence, at 12:25. The ride was smooth — your pooler spotted some folks recording once we got off of the highway.
Your pooler did not see FLOTUS exit the vehicle.
Here is background information, again, on the fundraiser. I will send quotes from the event shortly after we are ushered out. I am told there will not be a transcript sent out.
Background on behalf of the Biden-Harris campaign:
The First Lady's fundraiser in Minneapolis is at the home of Jim and Mary Lawrence in support of the Biden Victory Fund.


June 24, 2023 13:29 CDT

FLOTUS MN Travel Pool Report no. 5 - Holding
Your pooler is currently holding at 12:30~ until the First Lady speaks at the fundraiser.


June 24, 2023 13:43 CDT

FLOTUS MN Travel Pool no. 6 - Fundraiser/Rolling
FLOTUS took the podium and started speaking to a crowd of roughly 100 people around 12:57, according to event organizers. Event information was sent twice in previous reports. She wrapped up at 1:07.
We started rolling to the "local stop" at 1:25. FLOTUS will stop at the Twin Cities Pride festival, per the White House.
Here are some quotes all by FLOTUS from the fundraiser, because again, there will not be a full transcript.
She started at the top by thanking her hosts and political individuals office, including former Gov. Mark Dayton and current Lt. Gov. Peggy Flanagan, mentioning them by name.
"Optimism is what drives my husband, Joe. … Nothing can slow him down. He's ready to finish the job, as we get ready to jump back into the campaign."
Mentioning COVID, the debt-ceiling and Ukraine, FLOTUS said "I think Joe did such a great job with that. And when my hearts feels the sting of the headlines in the news, I know that it's Joe's vision that I want steering us forward."
"With his leadership, we've created 13 million jobs. … He's brought together people from both sides of the aisle, and found common ground, something that so many people said, 'You know, oh no, that's impossible.' But, like the bipartisan infrastructure law and we've passed the first major federal common sense gun legislation."
She listed a few of the international trips she had been on, including the Middle East, Japan, and King Charles' coronation in May.
"When I traveled to these countries, most times I meet with the leaders of the countries and they have all said to me, 'Jill, you know, we really need Joe's leadership.' Because if you could think back to the last administration, think about who was on the global stage then, and what was occurring and how other countries viewed the United States. It was pretty shocking."
"To be very clear, we are ready to win this and we are going to win this."
"We are going to remember what's in store if the MAGA Republicans win, you know, we've already lived though that. We remember those late night tweets, you know, the tweets and how that determined policy and the constant assault on democracy and freedoms and our intuitions. And it's only going to get worse. … That's our choice right now. So think about it, chaos and corruption, hatred and division, or strong, steady leadership. And we all know we cannot go back to those dark days."
"Families, I think American families all want the same things. We want good jobs, right? We want good schools. They want to be safe, they want their kids to be safe and they want themselves to be safe from gun violence, and they want freedom. And that freedom is what we're going to give them when we reelect Joe, and its starts now. It starts today. I mean, this is like the very beginning."
"We need to keep this momentum going. Go out and as you expand your networks and you talk to your friends and tell them that Joe is ready to continue to work for the American people. … Thank you for your faith, your faith in what we can do together. And thank you for helping us finish that job with all my heart."


June 24, 2023 14:51 CDT

FLOTUS MN Travel Pool no. 7 - Twin Cities Pride Festival/Rolling to Aiport
After a quick ride to the Twin Cities Pride Festival, with some waving and recording when we got off the highway, the motorcade arrived to Loring Park at 1:36.
There were lots of cheers once FLOTUS got out of the car. Heard someone say, "Thanks for everything" when we walked in.
FLOTUS took the stage at 1:40, with Rep. Ilhan Omar (DFL-Minneapolis) introducing her. She started speaking at 1:45. FLOTUS left at 1:47. The crowd started chanting "Four more years" as she left the stage. She mingled and greeted event volunteers on her way off the stage.
We started rolling to the airport at 1:55.
Here are some quotes from FLOTUS' speech:
"We know that there those who wish to undo progress this community has made. … Joe stands with you now, and he stands with you forever. … Today, we're here to find the joy."
"You are beautiful and you are loved."
FLOTUS said their experience "strengthened you for the fights ahead." "You don't have to finish these battles alone."
"To laugh with friends, we wish we saw more often to find solace in the arms of people who see us for who we are, to celebrate the beauty and the resiliency of this community. Today, I'm here on the behalf of Joe and Kamala and Doug to say loud and clear, that you belong, that you are beautiful in that you are loved."


June 24, 2023 15:28 CDT

FLOTUS MN Travel Report no. 8 - Wheels Up
We arrived to the airport at 2:10. We have a wheels up at 2:24.
Here is the guidance for FLOTUS for the rest of her day:
At 4:00 PM, the First Lady will arrive at the Nashville International Airport in Nashville, TN. This arrival will be open press and registration is closed.
Afterwards, the First Lady will celebrate Pride month at a local stop in Nashville, TN. This stop will be open press.
At 6:00 PM, the First Lady will deliver remarks at a political event for the Biden Victory Fund in Nashville, TN. The First Lady's remarks will be covered by a print pooler only.




Pool Reports below by Kelly Puente, The Tennessean 



Sent:
Reports:




June 24, 2023 16:39 CDT

FLOTUS Pool Report - Nashville, TN #1
Dr. Jill Biden has landed at Nashville International Airport for the city's Pride celebration.
She arrived just after 4 p.m. and walked off the plane wearing a pink and green floral dress.
She was greeted by Nashville Mayor John Cooper and his wife Laura Cooper.
She will now head to a festival in Bicentennial Capitol Mall State Park where she will make a few remarks.
After her festival visit, she will deliver remarks at a political event for the Biden Victory Fund at approximately 5:30 p.m. The event is at the home of Sacha and Charles Robert Bone.
She will then return to the airport.
Will provide updates with her remarks and color from the festival in the next pool report.
Biden's visit comes at a time when Tennessee is fighting legal battles over a string of new laws that many view as hostile to the LGBTQ community.
Tennessee sparked controversy when it became the first state this year to ban public drag show performances.
In June, a federal judge in Memphis declared the law unconstitutional. However, state Attorney General Jonathan Skrmetti has said he plans to appeal the decision.
The state has also seen outcry over its ban on gender-affirming care for minors.
The law singed by Gov. Bill Lee in March bans medications such as puberty blockers and hormone treatments for children who identify as transgender and nonbinary. Surgeries are also banned, though they were rare in Tennessee.
The state is now battling the ACLU in a federal lawsuit over law.
Last week, the state saw more controversy following reports that the attorney general is using its legal power to obtain patient medical records and other sweeping information from Vanderbilt University Medical Center's transgender health clinic as part of an investigation into possible insurance fraud.


June 24, 2023 17:41 CDT

FLOTUS Pool Report - Nashville, TN #2
First Lady Jill Biden took the stage at the Nashville Pride celebration at about 4:30 p.m.to send a message of love and hope to a cheering crowd of several hundred festivalgoers.
Biden said the event was a time for joy and to celebrate the LGBTQ community's resilience.
"We know there are those who wish to undo the hard-won progress that this community has made and tomorrow we will brave those battles together once more," she said.
The crowd in a sea of rainbow colors cheered and applauded.
Biden told the crowd that she was there on behalf of "Joe and Kamala and Doug."
"Love carries us through the darkest times it gives us hope for the future we want and strengthens us for the fights ahead," she said. "When you leave here to go back into a place that still needs so much change, take this love with you. You are never alone."
"Joe and I will stay with you, and we love you," she added.
Biden was joined on stage by Nashville Mayor John Cooper and his wife Laura Fitzgerald Cooper.
The mayor thanked Biden for visiting shortly after Nashville's Covenant School shooting on March 27, where six people were killed, including three children.
"She dropped everything and helped us through that day," the major said, add that she has a place in the city's heart.
Biden is now heading to a fundraiser at the home of Sacha and Charles Robert Bone, where she will give a few remarks.


June 24, 2023 19:45 CDT

FLOTUS Pool Report - Nashville, TN #3 (last report)
After speaking at the Nashville Pride Festival, First Lady Jill Biden stopped at a fundraising event for the Biden Victory Fund at the home of Sacha and Charles Robert Bone.
Biden spoke in the living room in front of a crowd of about fifty people.
"Before I start does anyone want to sit on the couch," she said, as the group chuckled.
Biden said her husband is ready for another campaign.
"Nothing can slow him down and now he's ready to finish the job," she said.
She noted how her husband has braved major challenges his the current term, from the pandemic to Russia's attack on Ukraine, and the debt ceiling crisis that "thankfully turned out well" because of bi-partisan support.
She said that under her husband's leadership the country has created 13 million jobs and is seeing a manufacturing boom that has brought both together sides of the aisle.
The country under the current administration has seen the first major federal common sense gun legislation, but more needs to be done, she said, noting the March 27 Covenant School shooting in Nashville that left six people dead, including three children.
"I can't say it more to a town that has already experienced this," she said. "As an educator I feel it so deeply."
"This is one of the things we really have to continue to work on… a ban on assault weapons," she said.
Biden said it's important to push forward and to stop "MAGA Republicans" from once again taking control and bringing "chaos and confusion."
"We cannot go back to those dark days," she said.
After her speech, Biden traveled back to Nashville airport to head to Delaware.



  