
    NOMINATIONS SENT TO THE SENATE:
Meredith Attwell Baker, of Virginia, to be a Member of the Federal Communications Commission for the remainder of the term expiring June 30, 2011, vice Kevin J. Martin, resigned.
Mignon L. Clyburn, of South Carolina, to be a Member of the Federal Communications Commission for a term of five years from July 1, 2007, vice Deborah Taylor Tate, term expired.
Judith Gail Garber, of Virginia, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Latvia.
Christopher A. Hart, of Colorado, to be a Member of the National Transportation Safety Board for a term expiring December 31, 2012, vice Steven R. Chealander, resigned.
Charlene Edwards Honeywell, of Florida, to be United States District Judge for the Middle District of Florida, vice Susan C. Bucklew, retired.
Kerri-Ann Jones, of Maine, to be an Assistant Secretary of State for Oceans and International Environmental and Scientific Affairs, vice Claudia A. McMurray, resigned.
Samuel Louis Kaplan, of Minnesota, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Kingdom of Morocco.
David Killion, of the District of Columbia, for the rank of Ambassador during his tenure of service as the United States Permanent Representative to the United Nations Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Organization.
James Knight, of Alabama, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Benin.
Karen Kornbluh, of New York, to be Representative of the United States of America to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, with the rank of Ambassador.
Bruce J. Oreck, of Colorado, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Finland.
Charles Aaron Ray, of Maryland, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Zimbabwe.
Jeffrey L. Viken, of South Dakota, to be United States District Judge for the District of South Dakota, vice Lawrence L. Piersol, retiring.
  