
    Aboard Air Force One En route Seattle, Washington
 10:03 A.M. EDT
 MS. PERINO: Good morning. We are en route to Seattle, Washington. Let me give you the President's schedule. He had his briefings this morning, taped his radio address. The radio address topic is Iraq, and the Iraqi developments, and the President's trip to Iraq earlier this week.
 Right now we're on our way to Seattle, where the President will attend a reception for the Friends of Dave Reichert, Congressman Dave Reichert, and then we're on our way to New Mexico, where he will make remarks at the Heather Wilson for Congress Reception. That is expanded press pool coverage, so you'll meet up with your colleagues there. Both of those members of Congress are on board with us today traveling. And then the President travels to Texas, where he will spend the weekend at the ranch.
 I have the week ahead. Do you want that now?
 Q: Yes.
 MS. PERINO: Okay. On Monday the President will give the commencement address at the United States Merchant Marine Academy. That's in King's Point, New York. That evening he will make remarks at the 2006 President's Dinner. That's at the Washington Convention Center.
 Tuesday through Thursday he's traveling to Austria, and Steve Hadley went through all of that in detail yesterday, so unless you have objections, I'll just refer you to that transcript.
 Friday, exciting day at the White House. The White House tee ball game, the first weekday game. And teams are from McGuire Air Force Base in New Jersey and the Naval Submarine Base in New London, Connecticut.
 And on Saturday the President attends the Ford's Theatre Gala.
 That's all I've got.
 Q: Can you tell us how much he's supposed to raise for these candidates today?
 MS. PERINO: I'd refer you to the campaign for the specific -- the two campaigns for specific dollar amounts. I would point out that the President -- you heard him the other day say that he is looking forward to the campaign. As of today he'll have done 39 campaign events. That is --
 Q: As of this year?
 MS. PERINO: As of this year.
 Q: For '06?
 MS. PERINO: For '06, that's correct.* He'll have done 39 events. That is ahead of where we were at this point in the cycle for his events, as well as the Vice President's events at this point in the cycle, we're ahead of those from 2002, when there was the last mid-term election.
 Q: Where were you this time in 2002?
 MS. PERINO: I don't have that exact number. I just know it was 39, and I was told it was more. We're ahead on both overall dollars and events.
 Q: Overall dollars is how much?
 MS. PERINO: Again, I'll have to refer you to the RNC for the total.
 Q: That includes the specific candidate events and also RNC money?
 MS. PERINO: Yes.
 Q: Can you tell us who will be at the ranch for Father's Day? Will 41 be there and the daughters?
 MS. PERINO: That is a great question. I haven't been able to find out the answer yet, but I will try to get back to you on that, yes. You're right -- remember, everyone, it's Father's Day.
 Q: And do you know if he has any events planned this weekend?
 MS. PERINO: None scheduled.
 Q: Any briefings, gaggles planned?
 MS. PERINO: Not for Saturday and Sunday.
 Q: Are you guys going to release a statement on the resolution when it's voted on, the House resolution?
 MS. PERINO: I'll check to see if there is a piece -- we've been following it and we're aware of the developments in the House.
 Q: Any reaction to the Iranian President's early remarks, saying the package looks positive?
 MS. PERINO: I think that what we're going to continue to do is allow the Iranians to take some time to consider the package and not -- we won't react too quickly to any statements until they have time to really digest it and respond. Remember, the President said that it's not about months, but weeks; and it's not days, it's weeks. So it's only been a couple of weeks, and so we'll let that process play out for a little while longer.
 Okay? Thank you.
 END 10:07 A.M. EDT
 *For the 2005-2006 cycle. 
  