
    Mitt Romney today announced his Young Americans for Romney Leadership Team. The group will be led by National Chairman Craig Romney. This team will work with prominent young leaders from across the country to help spread the message about why Mitt Romney is the best choice for America's future.
"I am so heartened that young people from around the country are working with me to restore America's promise," said Mitt Romney. "Whether it is the fact that half of our recent college graduates are struggling to find good jobs or that our spiraling debt is an enormous burden on our next generation, President Obama has clearly failed young people. Our next generation needs a president who will look out for them and their futures. I will work every day to ensure that our young people will have an even brighter future than their parents had."
National Chairman Craig Romney said, "This committee will provide important outreach to young Americans who are interested in restoring economic security to our country. My father has a strong track record of leadership, whether it was turning around companies, the Olympics, or the state of Massachusetts. America needs that type of leadership in the Oval Office. I am looking forward to working with young Americans from across the country to spread this message. Our country is down, but we are certainly not out. I believe that my dad is the man to provide opportunity and leadership to all Americans—especially our next generation."
Honorary National Co-Chairman Aaron Schock made the following statement on the formation of the Young American's for Romney Leadership Team, "Every day that passes, our next generation is increasingly burdened with a crushing debt. We need to make sure that we work to pay down our debt and work toward a balanced budget. Mitt Romney has proposed a bold plan that will scale back the size of government, so that young people aren't paying for our reckless spending. I am proud to stand with him and to help engage young people in the most important election of their lives."
New Hampshire State Representative Marilinda Garcia said, "It has long been an American tradition that each generation leaves our country in a better place than they inherited it. Today, with President Obama's failed policies, I fear that may not be the case. Mitt Romney believes that America's brightest days are ahead – but to get there, we need to reverse the failed policies of the past. I stand with Mitt and will work tirelessly to make sure our young people understand his plan to get America working again."
"Mitt Romney has spent his career in business," said National Advisory Board Member Jeb Bush, Jr. "He knows what it takes to grow jobs and empower small businesses. President Obama has been hostile to job creators and that has prevented our economy from recovering faster. Mitt Romney has proposed a bold agenda for his first one hundred days that will reinvigorate job growth and make America believe in itself once again."
Young Americans for Romney National Leadership Team
National Chairman Craig Romney
Honorary National Co-Chairman Jaime Herrera Beutler
Honorary National Co-Chairman Duncan Hunter
Honorary National Co-Chairman Adam Kinzinger
Honorary National Co-Chairman Kristi Noem
Honorary National Co-Chairman Martha Roby
Honorary National Co-Chairman Aaron Schock
Honorary National Co-Chairman Marlin Stutzman
Honorary National Co-Chairman Kevin Yoder
National Advisory Board:
Sam Bain – Chairman of the Ohio College Republicans
Jeb Bush Jr. – Chairman of Sun PAC
David Cardenas – Director of Sun PAC and Cardenas Partners
Beau Davidson – Country Music Singer and Winner of the CMT Music City Madness Original Song Award
New Hampshire State Representative Marilinda Garcia
Ohio State Representative Christina Hagan
Joshua Hone – New Mexico Republican Youth Activist
Zach Howell – Former Chairman of the College Republican National Committee
Ohio State Representative Casey Kozlowski
Chris Malagisi – Director of the American Conservative Union's Conservative Political Action Conference
Nate Walton – President of Sachem Strategy and former Chairman of the Maine College Republicans
  