
    The following listing includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the White House Press Office and not included elsewhere in this issue.
June 15
President Carter and President L. I. Brezhnev met with Austrian President Rudolph Kirchschlager and Chancellor Bruno Kreisky in the afternoon at the Hofburg, the imperial palace.
In the evening, President Carter and President Brezhnev were the guests of President Kirchschlager at a performance of the opera "The Abduction from the Seraglio" at the Staatsoper.
June 20
The President met at the White House with:
—Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs;
—the Democratic congressional leadership;
—Frank B. Moore, Assistant to the President for Congressional Liaison, Danny C. Tate, Deputy Assistant for Congressional Liaison (House), and William H. Cable, Deputy Assistant for Congressional Liaison (Senate);
—Vice President Walter F. Mondale, Stansfield Turner, Director of Central Intelligence, Hamilton Jordan, Assistant to the President, and Dr. Brzezinski;
—Vice President Mondale.
June 21
The President met at the White House with:
—Vice President Mondale, Secretary of the Treasury W. Michael Blumenthal, Stuart E. Eizenstat, Assistant to the President for Domestic Affairs and Policy, James T. Mcintyre, Jr., Director, and John P. White, Deputy Director, Office of Management and Budget, Charles L. Schultze, Chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers, Alfred E. Kahn, Advisor to the President on Inflation and Chairman of the Council on Wage and Price Stability, and Barry P. Bosworth, Director of the Council on Wage and Price Stability;
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Mr. Moore.
June 22
The President met at the White House with:
—Vice President Mondale, Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance, Secretary of Defense Harold Brown, Dr. Brzezinski, and Mr. Jordan;
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Mr. Moore;
—Ambassador Dick Clark, U.S. Coordinator for Refugee Affairs.
The White House announced that during the President's trip to East Asia, he has asked the Vice President to closely monitor developments in the energy area, including shortages and other short-term problems that arise, as well as the policy process and legislative actions. The Vice President will keep the President apprised of major developments and will continue the management of the energy situation on behalf of the President.
  