
    WASHINGTON -- FEMA, through our regional offices in Atlanta, Ga., and Denton, Texas, has been closely monitoring Tropical Storm Debby which is currently located in the Gulf of Mexico about 200 miles south-southeast of the mouth of the Mississippi River, and remains in close coordination with federal as well as state and local partners as the storm develops.
Although the National Hurricane Center has issued tropical storm watches and warnings for several areas along the Gulf Coast, FEMA continues to urge all residents in the area to closely monitor this storm due to the uncertainty in the track and strength of the storm, and to follow the direction of local and state officials.
Debby is the earliest fourth named storm on record, with the previous record being held by Hurricane Dennis, which became the fourth storm of 2005 on July 5.
"As always, we urge all individuals in the region to follow the directions provided by local officials, listen to NOAA Weather Radio and their local news to monitor for updates," said Administrator Craig Fugate. "History has taught us that storm tracks can change quickly and unexpectedly and people are urged to stay informed and monitor storm conditions."
Typically, with tropical systems these storms will produce high winds and heavy rains. The National Weather Service is predicting the storm may produce rain accumulations of 5 to 10 inches along the immediate Gulf Coast from Southeast Louisiana to the central West of Florida, with isolated maximum amount of 15 inches possible.
Individuals in coastal areas of the Southeast United States, especially in the Gulf Coast where tropical storm watches and warnings are in effect, should take steps to prepare. Residents can find information to prepare their family, home or business to reduce the impact of severe weather by going to Ready.gov.
FEMA, working with our federal partners including the National Hurricane Center, will continue to monitor the strength and path of Debby and will remain in close contact with state and local partners as they prepare for potential severe weather.
  