
    The following list does not include promotions of members of the Uniformed Services, nominations to the Service Academies, or nominations of Foreign Service officers.
Submitted June 7
Armando Falcon, Jr., of Texas, to be Director of the Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, Department of Housing and Urban Development, for a term of 5 years, vice Aida Alvarez.
Christopher C. Gallagher, of New Hampshire, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for National and Community Service for a term expiring October 6, 2003 (reappointment).
David H. Kaeuper, of the District of Columbia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Congo.
Robert Z. Lawrence, of Massachusetts, to be a member of the Council of Economic Advisers, vice Jeffrey A. Frankel, resigned.
Michael D. Metelits, of California, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Cape Verde.
Lawrence H. Summers, of Maryland, to be Secretary of the Treasury, vice Robert E. Rubin.
Submitted June 8
Franz S. Leichter, of New York, to be a Director of the Federal Housing Finance Board for a term expiring February 27, 2006, vice Daniel F. Evans, Jr., term expired.
Douglas L. Miller, of South Dakota, to be a Director of the Federal Housing Finance Board for a term expiring February 27, 2002, vice Lawrence U. Costiglio, term expired.
Submitted June 9
John E. Lange, of Wisconsin, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Botswana.
Delano Eugene Lewis, Sr., of New Mexico, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of South Africa.
Submitted June 10
Ann Brown, of Florida, to be a Commissioner of the Consumer Product Safety Commission for a term of 7 years from October 27, 1999 (reappointment).
Ann Brown, of Florida, to be Chairman of the Consumer Product Safety Commission (reappointment).
James Catherwood Hormel, of California, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Luxembourg, to which position he was appointed during the last recess of the Senate.
David W. Ogden, of Virginia, to be an Assistant Attorney General, vice Frank Hunger, resigned.
  