
    Tomorrow, First Lady Melania Trump will wrap a five day European tour with her husband, which included visits to London and Portsmouth in the United Kingdom, to Shannon in the Republic of Ireland, and finally to Normandy and Caen in France.
The trip included a state visit with Her Majesty the Queen and the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom. Mrs. Trump also attended separate spousal outings and a cultural program while traveling abroad.
In London, Mrs. Trump joined Mr. Philip May, spouse of the Prime Minister, for a garden party at 10 Downing Street which included U.S. embassy families and the families of the Prime Minister's staff.
Shortly after arriving in Shannon, Ireland, Mrs. Trump joined Josepha Madigan, Minister for Culture, Heritage and the Gaeltacht, for an Irish cultural program while the President participated in a bilateral meeting with the Taoiseach. The program was composed of five separate performances, each representing a special piece of Irish heritage. A full list of performances is below.
At the end of the program, Mrs. Trump was given a beautiful floral bouquet by one of the female dancers.
"Thank you to the performers for sharing your talents with me this afternoon," said First Lady Melania Trump. "Ireland is a beautiful place and I enjoyed the opportunity to experience these unique Irish traditions. Thank you to Shannon Heritage for hosting this lovely event."
Earlier today, the First Lady accompanied her husband to Normandy, France to honor the 75th Anniversary of the D-Day landings. Following the event, Mrs. Trump and Mrs. Macron visited a local restaurant in Caen, France.
"Today was a beautiful tribute to our veterans and the fallen soldiers of the D-Day invasion and the Second World War," said First Lady Melania Trump. "It was an honor to be a part of this historic ceremony remembering the strength and courage of our allied forces. I want to thank all of our European hosts for welcoming us into your countries. This trip was an opportunity to strengthen our friendships and come together in solemn remembrance of our shared history. It continues to be an honor to serve as First Lady of the United States."
  