
    Pool Reports by Naomi Lim, Washington Examiner 



Sent:
Reports:




June 22, 202216:17

VP pool report #1 - Arrival at American University
Pool arrived at American University at 4.13pm for a VP Title IX 50th anniversary field day event.
There are young girls conducting science experiments with the help of Girl Scouts and other community members and others playing basketball with Howard University coaches.



June 22, 202216:36

VP pool report #2 - Title IX field day event
VP arrived at the AU gymnasium at 4.17pm. She spent about 20 minutes speaking with the science experiment instructors and participants. It was hard to hear in the space over the music before pool was moved, but the first experiment was about electrolytes. Many of the girls are wearing Women's Sports Foundation t-shirts. The back reads: "Imagine what the next 50 years will bring."
Pool is holding on the basketball court.
A correction to pool report #1: The coaches are Howard University players not staff.



June 22, 202216:50

VP pool report #3 - VP shoots hoops
At 4.37pm, VP moved to the basketball court after posing for a couple of photos with participants.
VP joined a line of girls shooting hoops from the free throw line. After encouragement, she accepted the ball, dribbled, held the ball, and then dribbled again before taking a shot. It hit the net.
Before her sixth attempt, SGOTUS offered some advice: "Bend your knees."
She made the shot.
At 4.40pm, pool was ushered out while the group gathered for a photo.



June 22, 202217:07

VP pool report #4 - Event background
Pool arrived back at the WH at 5.03pm and is moving to EOB for this evening's signing ceremonies.
On background from a White House official:"Today the Vice President surprised students at a Field Day hosted by the Department of Education and the Women's Sports Foundation to mark the 50th anniversary of Title IX. The Field Day brought together girls ages 8-14 from Washington, D.C., for a range of activities.
The Vice President, along with Secretary Cardona, visited stations with students that focused on STEM lessons and athletics skills. Participants included Secretary Cardona, Women's Sports Foundation leadership, professional and collegiate athletes, and STEM educators."



June 22, 202217:36

VP pool report # 5 - Swearing in ceremony/Gas tax holiday comments
VP entered her ceremonial office at 5.16pm and swore in Scott Miller as the ambassador to Switzerland and Liechtenstein. The second ceremony with Michele Taylor, prospective ambassador to the United Nations Human Rights Council, was cancelled due to COVID exposure.
On background from a WH official:
"Ceremonial Swearing-In of Ambassador Scott Miller to Switzerland and Lichtenstein
Ambassador Miller is sworn in on the Constitution held by his mother, Beverly Ann Miller."
"Due to a covid exposure in Ambassador Taylor's family, her ceremonial swearing in will no longer take place today."
"Let me just tell you that the President and I and our administration is absolutely committed to doing everything that we can to bring down the cost of gas," she said in response to a question about whether she and POTUS will build support for their gas tax holiday proposal on Capitol Hill.
She did not answer a shouted question about whether she and POTUS should join Thursday's meeting with oil executives.
Pool was ushered out at 5.22pm.
Otter of gas tax holiday comments:https://otter.ai/u/wWpoCDFqTFFsONaoay7R80ZHkKU
A correction to pool report #4: Swearing in ceremonies, not signing ceremonies.



June 22, 202220:10

VP report #6 - Taylor swearing in ceremony
Resending with tweet link.
On background from a WH Official:"Following the swearing-in of Ambassador Scott Miller, Vice President Harris departed her Ceremonial Office en route to South Court Auditorium for a call to action coalitions call on reproductive rights. Under the breezeway of South Court Auditorium, the Vice President encountered Ambassador Michele Taylor and her husband, Kenneth Taylor. Standing 6 feet apart outdoors, Vice President Harris ceremonially swore-in Ambassador Michele Taylor to the United Nations Human Rights Council. Ambassador Taylor was sworn in on the Tanakh, the sacred Jewish text, by her husband, Kenneth Taylor."
The WH shared images:https://twitter.com/naomitlim/status/1539752480220663808?s=21&t=XBouHF92OKX0z7DZvnDmrQ




  