
    Pool Reports by Daniel Bush, Newsweek 



Sent:
Reports:




June 27, 2023 10:48

In-town pool report #1 -- Lunch lid/12:30 p.m.
The White House has called a lunch lid until 12:30 p.m. The president has two campaign receptions on his schedule today.
Director of the National Economic Council Lael Brainard will join the press briefing today, which is slated for 1 p.m. Full schedule below:
EDT
10:00 AM In-Town Pool Call Time 
10:00 AM THE PRESIDENT receives the Presidential Daily Briefing  Closed Press
4:10 PM THE PRESIDENT departs the White House en route to Chevy Chase, Maryland South Grounds  In-Town Travel Pool (Gather 3:55 PM – Palm Room Doors)
5:15 PM THE PRESIDENT participates in a campaign reception Chevy Chase, Maryland  Restricted In-Town Travel Pool
6:45 PM THE PRESIDENT participates in a campaign reception Chevy Chase, Maryland  Restricted In-Town Travel Pool
7:30 PM THE PRESIDENT departs Chevy Chase, Maryland en route to the White House Chevy Chase, Maryland  In-Town Travel Pool
8:00 PM THE PRESIDENT arrives at the White House  South Grounds  In-Town Travel Pool
Briefing Schedule
EDT
1:00 PM Press Briefing by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Olivia Dalton 


June 27, 2023 11:07

In-town pool report #2 -- POTUS lunch with Obama
From the White House:
President Biden will be hosting President Obama for lunch at the White House this afternoon.


June 27, 2023 13:06

In-town pool reporting #3 -- two-minute warning
Two-minute warning for the press briefing.


June 27, 2023 13:09

In-town pool report #4 -- press briefing underway
Principal Deputy Press Secretary Olivia Dalton took the podium at 1:06 p.m. The press briefing, which includes remarks by Director of the National Economic Council Lael Brainard, is underway.


June 27, 2023 13:55

In-town pool report #5 -- briefing over
The press briefing wrapped at 1:54 p.m.


June 27, 2023 14:34

In-town pool report #6 -- lunch lid/3:30
The White House has called a lunch lid until 3:30 p.m.


June 27, 2023 16:52

In-town pool report #7 — motorcade rolling
The motorcade is rolling at 4:52 p.m. to the first of two campaign receptions President Biden is attending this evening. Your pooler did not see the president exit the White House.
More details to come. 


June 27, 2023 18:28

In-town pool report #8 — arrival at first fundraiser
The motorcade arrived at the site of the first fundraiser in Chevy Chase, Maryland at 5:21 p.m after an uneventful ride.
Some people lined the route, including one man holding a Biden-Harris sign.
The pool is holding on the sidewalk on a residential street. Will include details on location when we get them.
From the White House:
Traveling with the President via motorcade en route to Chevy Chase, Maryland:
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations  Jon Finer, Assistant to the President & Principal Deputy National Security Advisor Emmy Ruiz, Assistant to the President & Director of the Office of Political Strategy & Outreach Terry Wolff, Special Assistant to the President & National Security Council Senior Director for MENA Ashley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office Operations Travis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director Sheila Grant, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Presidential Speechwriter 


June 27, 2023 18:28

In-town pool report #9 — holding/event details
Pool is holding in a tent on the front lawn of a large gray house.
Per the White House:
The first fundraiser this evening is at the home of Michael and Susie Gelman and is in support of the Biden Victory Fund.
Speaking Program:
Susie Gelman & Michael Gelman The President 


June 27, 2023 18:28

In-town pool report #10 — Remarks
Wifi is very spotty.
President Biden entered a living room with a piano, sculptures and several oil paintings on the wall at 5:44 p.m.
He was greeted with applause from about two dozen people seated on couches and chairs.
Biden delivered remarks after a brief introduction from the event hosts.
POTUS spoke at the top about the U.S.-Israel relationship, and mentioned taking his children and grandchildren over the years to visit Dachau.
He then turned to threats against democracy.
"Democracy is at stake, not just here but around the world," Biden said.
"I was stunned by the damage the last administration did to us" both domestically and around the world, Biden said.
POTUS said the rest of the world wonders "are we really back" after the Trump years.
Biden mentioned the Wagner Group and said he spent time on the phone with other leaders in recent days discussing the recent events over the weekend in Russia.
Then Biden turned to China and said the country has "enormous problems," but said he wouldn't go into details.
Turning to the U.S. economy, Biden mentioned his upcoming speech tomorrow on 'Bidenomics' and touted economic growth and job creation under his watch.
On taxes, Biden said, "I think everybody should pay their fair share."
The president discussed Medicare at some length and capping monthly insulin costs. Biden then touched on the infrastructure law, Chips Act, manufacturing jobs growth and other accomplishments.
"We're creating thousands and thousands and thousands of good-paying jobs. The middle class is growing," Biden said.
Biden called the Supreme Court ruling on elections "great news."
Biden finished his remarks at 6:11 p.m. Pool was taken outside and is holding in the vans while Biden does a question and answer session. 


June 27, 2023 18:48

In-town pool report #11 — rolling to next stop
The motorcade is rolling at 6:46 to the next camapaign reception. The rain has picked up again.
A big thank you to Doug Mills, whose wifi assist allowed several previous pool reports to go out. 


June 27, 2023 19:03

In-town pool report #12 — Waiting for remarks
After a brief two-minute drive the motorcade arrived at President Biden's second campaign fundraiser of the evening.
Pool was brought into a large white tent in the backyard of a house in Chevy Chase, Md., and is now waiting for Biden to enter.
The tent has a bar set up on one end and about eight tables with eight to 10 guests seated at each one. Rep. Lisa Blunt Rochester gave a short speech to warm up the crowd.
From the White House:
The reception is taking place at the home of Sandy and Stewart Bainum, and is for the Biden Victory Fund. 


June 27, 2023 19:56

In-town pool report #13 — Remarks at second fundraiser
President Biden began speaking at 7:06 p.m.
"I'm more optimistic today about America than I have been my entire career," Biden said.
The president told the story about defining America to Xi Jinping with one word: "possibilities."
He then explained at length his reason for running for president in 2020, and realizing how "ugly it would be" to run against Donald Trump, though he didn't refer to the former president by name.
Biden said he ran to restore the soul of the country, to rebuild the economy from the ground up and the middle out, and to unite the country.
In office, Biden said he remains convinced it's possible to "unite this country in a way it hasn't been united in a long, long time."
On foreign policy Biden said he's spent 180 hours talking to NATO and EU leaders to "hold the West together" on a range of issues including backing Ukraine.
The president said he's also worked closely with Japan and South Korea on security issues in Asia, and on strengthening relations between the U.S. and India.
Biden turned to climate change and touched on his efforts to work with allies to reduce carbon emissions.
"We can change the dynamic in the world right now. It's in our power to act," Biden said.
The president shifted to domestic issues. Since he took office, Biden said, the U.S. economy has added 13.6 million new jobs, which drew the first applause of the speech.
Biden touted his efforts to protect Medicare and Social Security, and cited his exchange with Republicans during his State of the Union address.
On abortion, Biden said: "I'm a practicing Catholic. I'm not big on abortion, but guess what? Roe vs. Wade got it right."
The president criticized states that have passed laws restricting access to abortion, as well as laws that ban books.
From there Biden touched on gun violence and his support for an assault weapons ban and universal background checks.
"Think about the number of mass murders that occur. It's at a historic high. We can stop it," Biden said. He added, "We have to have some rational basis for gun ownership."
Biden also called for more investment in education, from pre-K to college. He wrapped up by recalling his years riding Amtrak, then tied train travel to getting more cars off the road and also mentioned the infrastructure law.
"I think we can do great things, I really do," Biden said.
Biden concluded his remarks at 7:53 p.m.
Pool was ushered out and is heading back to the press vans. 


June 27, 2023 20:00

In-town pool report #14 — motorcade rolling back to WH
The motorcade is rolling at 7:58 p.m. back to the White House. 


June 27, 2023 20:33

In-town pool report #15 — WH arrival/Lid
The motorcade arrived at the White House at 8:30 p.m. President Biden was not spotted going inside.
The White House called a lid at 8:31 p.m.
Have a good evening, 



  