
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate four individuals, appoint nineteen individuals and designate one individual to serve in his Administration.
The President intends to nominate Holly A. Kuzmich, of Indiana, to be Assistant Secretary for Legislative and Congressional Affairs at the Department of Education. Ms. Kuzmich currently serves as Deputy Chief of Staff for Policy and Programs at the Department of Education. Prior to this, she served as Associate Director of the Domestic Policy Council at the White House. Earlier in her career, she served as a Professional Staff Member on the Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions. Ms. Kuzmich received her bachelor's degree from Northwestern University.
The President intends to nominate Christopher M. Marston, of Virginia, to be Assistant Secretary for Management at the Department of Education. Mr. Marston currently serves as Deputy Assistant Secretary for Process Improvement in the Office of Management at the Department of Education. Prior to this, he served as White House Liaison at the Department of the Interior. Earlier in his career, he served as Washington Office Director in the Office of Governor Bob Taft. Mr. Marston received his bachelor's degree from Dartmouth College and his JD from Georgetown University Law Center.
The President intends to nominate David D. Pearce, of Virginia, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the People's Democratic Republic of Algeria. Mr. Pearce, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, most recently served as Senior Advisor to Ambassador Ryan Crocker in Baghdad. Prior to this, he served as Minister Counselor for Political Affairs at the United States Embassy in Rome. Earlier in his career, he served as Consul General and Chief of Mission in Jerusalem. Mr. Pearce received his bachelor's degree from Bowdoin College and his master's degree from The Ohio State University.
The President announced his intention to nominate Lyndon L. Olson, Jr., of Texas, to be a Member of the United States Advisory Commission on Public Diplomacy, for a term expiring 07/01/11.
The President intends to appoint Sambhu N. Banik, of Maryland, to be a Member of the President's Committee for People with Intellectual Disabilities, for the remainder of a two-year term expiring 05/11/09.
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the President's Council on Bioethics, for terms of two years:
Floyd E. Bloom, of California;
Benjamin S. Carson, Sr., of Maryland;
Rebecca Susan Dresser, of Missouri;
Nicholas Eberstadt, of the District of Columbia;
Jean B. Elshtain, of Tennessee;
Daniel Willett Foster, of Texas;
Michael S. Gazzaniga, of Vermont;
Robert Peter George, of New Jersey;
Alfonso Gómez-Lobo, of the District of Columbia;
William Barton Hurlbut, of California;
Donald W. Landry, of New York;
Peter A. Lawler, of Georgia;
Paul Rodney McHugh, of Maryland;
Gilbert Carl Meilaender, Jr., of Indiana;
Edmund D. Pellegrino, of New York, and upon appointment Re-designate Chairperson;
Janet Davison Rowley, of Illinois;
Diana J. Schaub, of Maryland;
Carl E. Schneider, of Michigan.
  