
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
May 29
In the morning, the President visited Arlington National Cemetery, Arlington, VA, where he placed a wreath at the Tomb of the Unknowns.
May 30
In the afternoon, the President had a telephone conversation with President Fernando Henrique Cardoso of Brazil.
The President declared a major disaster in Illinois and ordered Federal funds to supplement State and local recovery efforts in communities recently struck by severe storms and flooding.
May 31
In the morning, the President traveled to Colorado Springs, CO, and then to Billings, MT, in the afternoon.
The President named Andrew F. Brimmer as Chairman and Joyce Ladner and Constance B. Newman as members of the District of Columbia Financial Responsibility and Management Assistance Authority.
June 1
In the morning, the President went horseback riding at the Intermountain Equestrian Center. In the early afternoon, he toured the Auer wheat farm.
The President announced the appointment of Philip W. Pillsbury, Jr., and reappointment of Gary S. Hartshorn to the Panama Canal Joint Commission on the Environment.
The President announced his intention to nominate William J. Hughes as Ambassador to Panama.
The President announced his intention to nominate David L. Hobbs as Ambassador to Guyana.
The President announced his intention to appoint Joseph W. Cornelison as Deputy Administrator of the Panama Canal Commission.
The President announced his intention to appoint Richard K. Glenn as the Indigenous Representative to the Arctic Research Commission.
June 2
In the early morning, the President returned to Washington, DC. In the afternoon, he hosted a working luncheon with Democratic Governors in the Old Family Dining Room.
The President declared a major disaster in Missouri and ordered Federal funds to supplement State and local recovery efforts in communities struck by severe storms, hail, tornadoes, and flooding beginning on May 13 and continuing.
The President announced his intent to nominate Tracey Dean Conwell and Jeanne R. Ferst to the National Museum Services Board.
The President announced his intention to appoint Larry E. Trujillo, Sr., as the Chair and Federal Representative to the Arkansas River Compact Administration between the States of Colorado and Kansas.
The White House announced that the President has sent fiscal year 1996 budget amendments to the Congress for the Departments of Defense, Education, Interior, Transportation, and the Railroad Retirement Board.
  