
    
"I think what we heard was Senator Barack Obama indicate, through his comments, that he frankly is out of touch with what Americans are going through." -- Rep. Eric Cantor
ARLINGTON, VA -- Today, Rep. Eric Cantor (R-VA) and McCain campaign Senior Policy Advisor Doug Holtz-Eakin held a conference call on Barack Obama's support for higher gas prices: 
Rep. Eric Cantor: "I would just like to say to start things off that clearly the country is nearly in shock each and every day when they see the escalating gas prices. These gas prices are truly taking a toll on working classes across America and it's time for us to act. It's time for us to do something to bring these prices back down. I think what we heard was Senator Barack Obama indicate, through his comments, that he frankly is out of touch with what Americans are going through."
...
"I can tell you that in my office yesterday I had representatives from a mobile hospital that told me that the increase cost of fuel has caused them to incur an additional $100,000 in expenses in fuel use. We've also seen widespread reports of local law enforcement and police departments having to reassess how they are going to use their vehicles and their fleet, because of the strain that the high cost of gas is placing on their departments. So clearly it's not just working families. It's communities across the country who are struggling up under these high costs, high prices and for Senator Obama to indicate that we'll just have to get used to them is clearly an indication that he is out of touch." 
Doug Holtz-Eakin: "Thank you Congressman, I think I'd like to point out that Senator McCain is not out of touch with the pressure on gasoline prices. He proposed a gas tax suspension for the summer that would put $600 in the pocket of a trucker buying diesel fuel, take some of the pressure off the price increases of all the things that they deliver, help American families get through the summer."
...
"And while the elites don't seem to understand that the people are hurting, when we do this on the ground, you get some help, and people can use some help fast. And that's important."
Listen To The Full Conference Call
Watch Barack Obama's "Gradual Adjustment" Comment
  