
    Today, Romney for President released a new web video, "Symbol of Failure." Two years ago, President Obama went to Solyndra and touted it as an example of his initiative to create jobs. Today, the company is bankrupt and the building stands empty as a symbol of the failure of President Obama's policies.
To View "Symbol of Failure" Please See: http://mi.tt/KO9VRe
AD FACTS: Script For "Symbol of Failure"
BRIAN ROSS, ABC NEWS: "...[W]as a commitment with your tax dollars that ended up with the worst kind of return. $535 million for a California solar energy startup Solyndra by the Obama administration."

BRIAN ROSS, ABC NEWS: "...[W]as a commitment with your tax dollars that ended up with the worst kind of return. $535 million for a California solar energy startup Solyndra by the Obama administration." (ABC News' "Good Morning America," 9/1/11)

LISA MYERS, NBC NEWS: "This company was the poster child for the President's green jobs initiative."

LISA MYERS, NBC NEWS: "This company was the poster child for the President's green jobs initiative." (NBC News' "The Today Show," 9/23/11)

VIDEO TEXT: "1,100 Laid Off Workers"


    The Obama Administration Loaned $535 Million To Solyndra – Which Later Went Bankrupt And Laid Off 1,100 Employees. "In a blow to the Obama administration's efforts to create green jobs, solar-cell maker Solyndra announced Wednesday that it will close its remaining Fremont factory, lay off its 1,100 employees and file for bankruptcy. The news marked an abrupt end for a company once considered among the most innovative in a fast-changing industry. The bankruptcy also represents a high-profile failure for a federal stimulus program that gives loan guarantees to green-tech manufacturers. Solyndra was the first company to win one of the guarantees, receiving $535 million in 2009 to build its second factory in Fremont less than a mile from the company's original plant." (David R. Baker and Carolyn Said, "Solyndra Closes Fremont Plant - Stimulus Hopes Dim," San Francisco Chronicle, 9/1/11)
  

DON KNAPP, KCBS-TV: "1,100 Employees Laid Off."

DON KNAPP, KCBS-TV: "1,100 Employees Laid Off." (KCBS-TV, 8/31/11)

MYERS: "The FBI is now investigating whether the company intentionally misled the government about its finances."

MYERS: "The FBI is now investigating whether the company intentionally misled the government about its finances." (NBC News' "The Today Show," 9/23/11)

VIDEO TEXT: "Investigated By The FBI"


    FBI Investigated Solyndra For Accounting Fraud And Financial Representations Made To The Government. "The FBI is investigating Solyndra LLC for possible accounting fraud and the accuracy of financial representations made to the government, according to an agency official. The FBI is examining possible misrepresentations in financial statements, said the official, who requested anonymity because the investigation is continuing." (Seth Stern and Jim Snyder, "FBI Investigating Solyndra For Possible Fraud," Bloomberg, 9/30/11)
  

VIDEO TEXT: "$535 Million In Taxpayer Money"


    The Obama Administration Loaned $535 Million To Solyndra – Which Later Went Bankrupt And Laid Off 1,100 Employees. "In a blow to the Obama administration's efforts to create green jobs, solar-cell maker Solyndra announced Wednesday that it will close its remaining Fremont factory, lay off its 1,100 employees and file for bankruptcy. The news marked an abrupt end for a company once considered among the most innovative in a fast-changing industry. The bankruptcy also represents a high-profile failure for a federal stimulus program that gives loan guarantees to green-tech manufacturers. Solyndra was the first company to win one of the guarantees, receiving $535 million in 2009 to build its second factory in Fremont less than a mile from the company's original plant." (David R. Baker and Carolyn Said, "Solyndra Closes Fremont Plant - Stimulus Hopes Dim," San Francisco Chronicle, 9/1/11)
  

ROSS: "Up until the very end, the Obama administration said it was money well spent."

ROSS: "Up until the very end, the Obama administration said it was money well spent." (ABC News' "Good Morning America," 9/1/11)

PRESIDENT BARACK OBAMA: "We can see positive impacts right here at Solyndra."

PRESIDENT BARACK OBAMA: "And we can see positive impacts right here at Solyndra." (President Barack Obama, Remarks, Fremont, CA, 5/26/10)

VIDEO TEXT: "May 31, 2012"
VIDEO TEXT: "Fremont, California"
MITT ROMNEY: "Two years ago, President Obama was here to tout this building and this business as a symbol of the success of his stimulus. Well you can see that it's a symbol of something very different today. It's a symbol not of success, but of failure."

MITT ROMNEY: "Two years ago, President Obama was here to tout this building and this business as a symbol of the success of his stimulus. Well you can see that it's a symbol of something very different today. It's a symbol not of success, but of failure." (Mitt Romney, Remarks, Fremont, CA, 5/31/12)

MITT ROMNEY: "That is not the nature of how America works. I'm afraid the reason that the stimulus has been unsuccessful, that the turnaround has taken so long to occur, and the recovery's been so tepid is that the President fails to understand the basic nature of free enterprise in America. But I can tell you that my experience in the economy tells me how it is businesses make decisions to hire people in America. I want to use that knowledge to get Americans working again. The idea of 23 million American families out of work or stopped looking for work or underemployed is unacceptable and crony capitalism like this did not help."

MITT ROMNEY: "That is not the nature of how America works. I'm afraid the reason that the stimulus has been unsuccessful, that the turnaround has taken so long to occur, and the recovery's been so tepid is that the President fails to understand the basic nature of free enterprise in America. But I can tell you that my experience in the economy tells me how it is businesses make decisions to hire people in America. I want to use that knowledge to get Americans working again. The idea of 23 million American families out of work or stopped looking for work or underemployed is unacceptable and crony capitalism like this did not help." (Mitt Romney, Remarks, Fremont, CA, 5/31/12)

  