
    THE VICE PRESIDENT: Secretary Chao, Leader McCarthy, Chairman Bill Shuster, Senator Ted Cruz, distinguished members of Congress, honored guests, on behalf of the First Family, welcome to the White House. (Applause.) And thanks to the leadership of President Donald Trump, welcome to the beginning of a new era for American infrastructure. (Applause.)
You know, since the first day of this administration, President Trump has been working tirelessly to keep the promises that he made to the American people. Our President has been putting jobs and this economy first, rolling back excessive regulations, unleashing American energy, ending unfair trade practices, and he's been working with Congress to repeal and replace Obamacare. And thanks to President Donald Trump, America is back. (Applause.)
American businesses are growing and investing in America again. More than 600,000 private sector jobs have been created under this President's leadership, and unemployment hasn't been this low for 16 years. But if you haven't already noticed, the American people also elected a builder to be the 45th President of the United States, and this week, starting today, this President will take historic steps to keep his promise to rebuild America. (Applause.)
Promising to replace our crumbling infrastructure with new roads, bridges and tunnels and airports, the action the President announces today will encourage investment, commerce, and most importantly, President Trump's action today will enhance the safety and precision of our air travel in the United States. And as I can attest from firsthand experience, having more precise landings in America is a good thing. (Applause.)
So, with gratitude for his leadership and vision, and with admiration for his unwavering determination to rebuild America and restore a nation of opportunity and prosperity, it is now my high honor and distinct privilege to introduce to you the President of the United States of America, President Donald Trump. (Applause.)
  