
    "It's time to support our police, to protect our families, and to save American lives." – President Donald J. Trump 
SUPPORTING ANGEL FAMILIES: President Donald J. Trump is hearing firsthand from the American families who have lost loved ones to illegal alien crime. 

President Donald J. Trump is meeting with "Angel families," who have lost loved ones to illegal alien crime.
The Trump Administration created the Victims of Immigration Crime Engagement (VOICE) Office in order to support the victims and families affected by illegal alien crime.

U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement launched the VOICE Office in April 2017, following an Executive Order by the President calling for its creation. 


The VOICE Office operates a hotline to connect victims with social services and, when possible, assist them in obtaining immigration information regarding the offender.

The VOICE Office has released a new report that includes case studies explaining how they were able to assist victims who contacted them. 


A 2011 Government Accountability Office report found nearly 3 million offenses tied to criminal aliens, including:

More than 25,000 homicide offenses. 
More than 42,000 robbery offenses. 
Nearly 70,000 sex crime offenses. 
Nearly 15,000 kidnapping offenses. 


In Texas alone, more than 250,000 criminal aliens have been arrested and charged with over 600,000 criminal offenses within the last seven years. 
In fiscal year 2017, more than 8,000 criminal illegal aliens in police custody were released back into our communities as a result of sanctuary policies.

PROTECTING COMMUNITIES FROM MS-13: Gangs like MS-13 have taken advantage of our porous borders and broken immigration system.

MS-13 has exploited the influx of Unaccompanied Alien Children (UACs) entering the United States in order to bolster its ranks.

Federal authorities are not able to quickly remove illegal alien gang members based on their membership in a gang.


In May 2015, U.S. Border Patrol apprehended a UAC who was later released into American communities.

The illegal alien was arrested in November 2017 in connection with the MS-13 related killing of a man who was stabbed over 100 times and decapitated. 


In December 2014, U.S. Border Patrol apprehended a UAC who was later released into American communities.

In July 2017, the same illegal alien was listed as a known MS-13 gang member and placed on the State of Texas' 10 Most Wanted list. 
The illegal alien has been arrested and is awaiting trial for the murder of two individuals.


In December 2013, U.S. Border Patrol apprehended a UAC who was later released into American communities.

In September 2016, the same illegal alien was one of 11 MS-13 gang members involved in the killing of teenage girls in Long Island, NY.



  