
    Biden Administration will facilitate air shipment of approximately 1.65 million 8-ounce bottle equivalents of Nestlé NAN Supremepro 2 infant formula this weekend
Today, President Biden is announcing that his Administration is sourcing a flight, facilitated by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), for Operation Fly Formula to transport Nestlé infant formula from Germany to Fort Worth, Texas on June 26. This delivery will include over 110,000 pounds of Nestlé SupremePro 2 formula, the equivalent of approximately 1.65 million 8-ounce bottles. The product will be available through Gerber.com and other online retailers.
In May, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) announced that the agency is exercising enforcement discretion so that Nestlé can export additional infant formula into the U.S. Nestlé will import both standard and specialty infant formulas including Nestlé NAN SupremePro 1, Nestlé NAN SupremePro 2, Nestlé Health Science Alfamino/Alfamino, Jr., Gerber® Good Start® Gentle and Gerber® Good Start® Extensive HA®. Nestlé plans to bring approximately 42 million 8-ounce bottle equivalents into the U.S. market.
President Biden launched Operation Fly Formula to speed up the import of infant formula and start getting more formula to stores as soon as possible. Under Operation Fly Formula, the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA), the General Services Administration (GSA), and the Department of Defense (DOD) are partnering to pick up overseas infant formula that meets U.S. health and safety standards, so it can get to store shelves faster. By June 26, Operation Fly Formula will have completed 32 flights and imported almost 19 million 8-ounce bottle equivalents of infant formula.
In addition, the Biden Administration has taken a number of other important actions to ensure there is enough safe infant formula for families, including invoking the Defense Production Act, entering into a consent agreement between the FDA and Abbott Nutrition to reopen the company’s Sturgis facility, and issuing FDA guidance so that major formula manufacturers can safely import formula that is not currently being produced for the U.S. market. Details of our actions can be found at whitehouse.gov/formula.

  