
    The following listing contains releases of the White House Press Office which are not included in this issue.
Released June 2, 1979
Advance text: remarks at the Jefferson-Jackson Day dinner in Indianapolis, Ind.
Released June 4, 1979
News conference: on actions to increase unleaded gasoline production—by Secretary of Energy James R. Schlesinger and Douglas M. Costle, Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency
Fact sheet: actions to increase unleaded gasoline production
Announcement: nomination of Richard M. Bilby to be United States District Judge for the District of Arizona
Announcement: nomination of Lawrence K. Karlton to be United States District Judge for the Eastern District of California
Announcement: nomination of Warren W. Eginton to be United States District Judge for the District of Connecticut
Announcement: nomination of William J. Castagna to be United States District Judge for the Middle District of Florida
Announcement: nomination of Boyce F. Martin, Jr., to be United States Circuit Judge for the Sixth Circuit
Announcement: nomination of John M. Shaw to be United States District Judge for the Western District of Louisiana
Announcement: nomination of Veronica D. Wicker to be United States District Judge for the Eastern District of Louisiana
Announcement: nomination of C. Weston Houck to be United States District Judge
for the District of South Carolina
Announcement: nomination of Falcon B. Hawkins to be United States District Judge for the District of South Carolina
Released June 5, 1979
Announcement: nomination of Orinda D. Evans to be United States District Judge for
the Northern District of Georgia
Announcement: nomination of Marvin H. Shoob to be United States District Judge for the Northern District of Georgia
Announcement: nomination of G. Ernest Tidwell to be United States District Judge for the Northern District of Georgia
Released June 6, 1979
News conference: on Federal pay system reform—by Alan K. Campbell, Director of the Office of Personnel Management, and John P. White, Deputy Director of the Office of Management and Budget
Fact sheet: Federal pay system reform
Released June 7, 1979
Advance text: remarks at the founding convention of the United Food and Commercial Workers International Union
News conference: on continuation of U.S. trade sanctions against Rhodesia—by Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance
  