
    Pool Reports by Dustin Gardiner, San Francisco Chronicle 



Sent:
Reports:




June 13, 2023 16:14 PDT

FLOTUS pool #1: Departing hotel
FLOTUS' motorcade departed from the InterContinental Mark Hopkins hotel on Nob Hill at 4:06 p.m. It's a crisp, overcast afternoon in San Francisco.
Jill Biden is headed to a fundraiser at a private residence in affluent Marin County. Later today, she will attend a fundraiser in the city, and a gun violence prevention event with former Rep. Gabrielle Giffords.


June 13, 2023 16:48 PDT

FLOTUS pool #2: Arrival in Marin County
FLOTUS' motorcade crossed the Golden Gate Bridge and drove into Marin County. She arrived at a private residence at 4:37 p.m. for a fundraiser for the Biden Victory Fund. Remarks coming shortly


June 13, 2023 17:55 PDT

FLOTUS pool #3: Fundraiser in Marin County
FLOTUS greeted donors at the home of Brooke and David Rusenko. Brooke is an attorney and philanthropist. David is a venture capitalist and the former CEO of Weebly.
Jill Biden spoke to a group of about 80 people who sat under a large tent on an outside lawn. She said POTUS was up all night earlier this week with a tooth ache. She joked about how the White House has its own dentist.
"Nothing can slow him down, not even dental surgery."
FLOTUS, who wore a sky-blue skirt and blazer, touted the administration's accomplishments, including creating 13 million jobs and passing bipartisan gun-safety and infrastructure legislation. She said POTUS "knows what the heck he's doing" when it comes to foreign policy.
Jill Biden then framed the 2024 election as a choice between "corruption and chaos" under former President Trump or calm stability under Joe Biden. "We cannot go back to those dark days... and with your help we won't go back."


June 13, 2023 17:56 PDT

FLOTUS Pool #4
FLOTUS' motorcade departed the Marin County fundraiser at 5:32 p.m. She's headed to another fundraiser for the Biden Victory Fund in San Francisco.
The next fundraiser will be at Manny's, a cafe and bar in the Mission neighborhood that has a long reputation as a gathering spot for political types.


June 13, 2023 18:27 PDT

FLOTUS pool #5: Arrival at Manny's
Pedestrians waved to FLOTUS' motorcade as she was escorted through San Francisco.
She arrived at Manny's in the Mission at 6:01 p.m.for a fundraiser for the Biden Victory Fund. Remarks expected shortly.


June 13, 2023 20:08 PDT

FLOTUS pool #6: Remarks at Manny's
FLOTUS spoke to a riled-up crowd of at least 100 supporters and donors at Manny's in the Mission. The gathering included Lt. Gov. Eleni Kounalakis, San Francisco Democratic Party Chair Honey Mahogany and a host of drag queens.
Jill Biden said the fight from democracy in America is ongoing. She touted how the administration has created jobs and negotiated bipartisan deals on drug prices, infrastructure and gun safety.
"We've accomplished so much. And I hope you are proud," she said to a standing ovation.
FLOTUS' comments in 2024:"You know what's in store if these MAGA Republicans win. We know it because we lived it."
The crowd chanted "four more years, four more years."
Jill Biden: "Remember how hard it was last time? This time, it's going to be even harder... The fight for freedom doesn't end. This is the most important election of our lives."
FLOTUS' motorcade departed Manny's at 6:45 p.m. She's headed to a gun violence prevention event with former Rep. Gabrielle Giffords at Pier 29 in San Francisco, which will be open press.


June 13, 2023 20:08 PDT

FLOTUS pool #7: Arrival at Giffords event
FLOTUS' motorcade arrived at Pier 29 at 6:59 p.m. Her remarks will start shortly.
Also, there was a typo in my last update: "fight from democracy" in the second paragraph should read "fight for democracy." Apologies.


June 13, 2023 20:38 PDT

FLOTUS pool #8: Remarks at Giffords event
FLOTUS spoke at an event for the Giffords Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence. The event drew a few hundred people and was open press.
Jill Biden took the stage with former Rep. Gabrielle Giffords, who was almost killed during a mass shooting in 2011. They were greeted with a standing ovation.
Biden said the country has lost an "unfathomable" number of children to gun violence. She detailed the ways that constant fear of mass shootings has seeped into American culture.
"As a teacher, I have imagined that scene in my classroom more times than I can count. At the start of each semester, I explain to my students what they should do if the worst happens."
"We all feel the ripple effects. We've all lost a piece of ourselves, our security, our hope, our trust in each other.
FLOTUS touted the administration's accomplishments to combat gun violence, including by requiring background checks for young people buying guns and stopping domestic abusers from acquiring weapons.
"He's done everything in his power, and these changes will save lives. But it's not enough. We know that. Joe knows that. We need Republicans in Congress to get out of the way."
FLOTUS departed around 7:50 p.m. This is a lid for your press pooler. Thanks for following along.



  