
    WASHINGTON – Today, President Barack Obama announced his intent to nominate Robert M. McDowell, currently a commissioner at the Federal Communications Commission (FCC), to serve another term at the FCC.
President Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individual today:
Robert M. McDowell, Commissioner, Federal Communications Commission
Robert M. McDowell, nominated by President George W. Bush and unanimously confirmed by the United States Senate, was sworn in as FCC Commissioner on June 1, 2006. Since that time, he has collaborated with his fellow commissioners to develop and establish American communications policy covering the wireless, media, and Internet industries, in addition to international policy matters. Among other matters, he has worked to create rules governing wireless auctions; establish a framework for unlicensed use of TV "white spaces" spectrum; develop incentives to encourage the development of new broadband technologies; review public interest benefits as part of the approval process of proposed corporate mergers; and adjudicate enforcement proceedings. Commissioner McDowell brings to the FCC approximately sixteen years of private sector experience in the communications industry. Immediately prior to joining the FCC, Commissioner McDowell was a senior executive for a trade association representing competitive facilities-based telecommunications service providers. McDowell was graduated cum laude from Duke University in 1985. After serving as chief legislative aide to a member of the Virginia House of Delegates, he attended the Marshall-Wythe School of Law at the College of William and Mary. Upon his graduation from law school, McDowell joined the Washington, D.C., office of Arter & Hadden, a national law firm based in Cleveland. McDowell is admitted to practice law before the courts of the Commonwealth of Virginia, the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia, the U.S. Courts of Appeals for the District of Columbia, First, Fourth and Fifth Circuits and the U.S. Supreme Court.
  