
    To the Congress of the United States:
I am submitting today the third President's report on the occupational safety and health activities of Federal Government carried out under the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970.
This report--covering programs of the Department of Labor, the Department of Health, Education, and Welfare, and the Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission for calendar year 1973--indicates significant progress toward the goal of a safe and healthful work environment for all Americans. It also points to the tasks ahead.
Government efforts in occupational safety and health began to show significant results in 1973. Increased public attention was focused on the problems of workplace hazards. This awareness was reflected in a number of areas--collective bargaining agreements, union and industry safety and health program activities, and industry association and journal articles, among others.
Another achievement in 1973 was the development of State occupational safety and health programs. The Department of Labor approved twenty new State plans marking important progress toward development of an integrated Federal-State partnership in occupational safety and health.
During 1973, the National Institute of Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) in the Department of Health, Education, and Welfare--which has responsibility for occupational safety and health research--significantly increased knowledge of toxic substances and other causes of unhealthy working environments. It also further developed detailed criteria for use by the Department of Labor in establishing standards governing the use of hazardous substances in the workplace.
This report contains results of the first full-year occupational injury and illness survey, covering 1972. This survey by the Bureau of Labor Statistics will become the base for the future measure of progress in reducing deaths, injuries, and illnesses caused by workplace conditions.
The 1973 report is another step in providing a record of our Government's efforts in behalf of a safe and healthful work environment for all Americans. All of us share this goal of improving the welfare of the working men and women of our country.
GERALD R. FORD
The White House,
June 27, 1975.
  