
    President Donald J. Trump today announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key positions in his Administration:
Jeffrey Bossert Clark of Virginia to be an Assistant Attorney General, Environment and Natural Resources at the Department of Justice. Mr. Clark is a partner in the Washington, D.C. office of Kirkland & Ellis LLP. He is a complex trial and appellate litigator with especially deep experience in administrative law, cutting across dozens of statutes and numerous agencies. Mr. Clark has been with Kirkland since 1996, with the exception of his period of service by virtue of appointment by the Attorney General in the U.S. Department of Justice from 2001-2005. He has worked on cutting-edge cases in numerous areas of law, and argued and won numerous cases in multiple Circuits. From 2001 to 2005, Mr. Clark was the Deputy Assistant Attorney General for the Environment and Natural Resources Division of the Justice Department. While there, he supervised the Appellate Section (50 lawyers and staff) and the Indian Resources Section (25 lawyers and staff). Also during that period, he reviewed, edited, or contributed to virtually every brief the Environment Division of the Department of Justice filed in the Courts of Appeals, including several cases of exceptional significance he personally briefed and argued. He also worked on every Supreme Court environmental or natural resource case during this same period.
Ryan McCarthy of Illinois to be Under Secretary of the Army. Mr. McCarthy most recently served as the Vice President of the Sustainment Program for the F-35 program at Lockheed Martin, where he implemented the restructuring and organizational redesign of the sustainment line of business. At Lockheed Martin, he has held a variety of roles on the F-35 Program and at the Corporate Office. In addition, he served as Special Assistant to Secretary of Defense Robert Gates. Prior to serving at the Department of Defense, Mr. McCarthy was a professional staff member on the U.S. House of Representatives Committee on International Relations. Earlier in his career, he served at the Hong Kong Shanghai Bank Corporation's North America Unit in their Private Label Credit Card Business. He also served in the 75th Ranger Regiment during the invasion of Afghanistan. Mr. McCarthy is a graduate of the Virginia Military Institute, and has a Master's in Business Administration from the University of Maryland.
-------
President Donald J. Trump Announces Continuation of Dr. Francis Collins as Director of the National Institutes of Health
President Donald J. Trump today announced the continuation of Dr. Francis Collins as Director of the National Institutes of Health.
Dr. Francis Collins will continue to serve as the Director of the National Institutes of Health. Dr. Collins is a physician-geneticist noted for his landmark discoveries of disease genes and his leadership of the international Human Genome Project, which culminated in April 2003 with the completion of a finished sequence of the human DNA instruction book. He served as director of the National Human Genome Research Institute at NIH from 1993-2008. Before coming to NIH, Dr. Collins was a Howard Hughes Medical Institute investigator at the University of Michigan. He is an elected member of the National Academy of Medicine and the National Academy of Sciences, was awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom in November 2007, and received the National Medal of Science in 2009. He served as director of the National Human Genome Research Institute at NIH from 1993-2008, and has served as NIH Director since 2009.
  