
    WASHINGTON, DC – President Obama today announced the nomination of B. Todd Jones for U.S. Attorney for the District of Minnesota. Mr. Jones previously held the position from May 1998 through January 2001.
"Todd Jones made the utmost sacrifice for his country and served with honor as a member of the United States Marine Corps during Operation Desert Storm," President Obama said. "And he has served the public in his civilian life, too, with a distinguished career in the US Attorney's office in Minnesota. It is my honor to ask him to serve in this capacity again."
B. Todd Jones: Nominee for U.S. Attorney, District of Minnesota
B. Todd Jones, 52, is currently a partner at Robins, Kaplan, Miller & Ciresi, where he has worked since 2001. Mr. Jones graduated from Macalester College in 1979 and University of Minnesota Law School in 1983. He served on active duty with the United States Marine Corps from 1983 to 1989 and with the United States Marine Corps Reserve until January 1991, when he was recalled to active duty for Operation Desert Storm. In June 1991, he returned to the Marine Corps Reserve, earning the rank of Major and serving as the commanding officer of the 4th Marine Division Military Police Company until he received an honorable discharge in 1998. From May 1998 to January 2001, Mr. Jones served as U.S. Attorney in the District of Minnesota. He had served as a First Assistant and an Assistant U.S. Attorney in the U.S. Attorney's office prior to his appointment.
In addition to nominating Jones, the following nominations will be sent to the Senate today: Preet Bharara, Nominee for U.S. Attorney, Southern District of New York; Tristram Coffin, Nominee for U.S. Attorney, District of Vermont; Jenny Durkan, Nominee for U.S. Attorney, Western District of Washington; Paul Fishman, Nominee for U.S. Attorney, District of New Jersey; John Paul Kacavas, Nominee for U.S. Attorney, District of New Hampshire; Joyce Vance, Nominee for U.S. Attorney, Northern District of Alabama.
  