
    Pool Reports by David Smith, The Guardian 



Sent:
Reports:




June 7, 202209:12

WH in-town pool report #1/ Summit of the Americas delegation list
Greetings on another sunny day in Washington.
The schedule has a press briefing with Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre at 1.45pm, then POTUS signing into law nine bipartisan bills that honor and improve care for veterans at 2.45pm.
The White House sent out the Official Delegation List for the Ninth Summit of the Americas, which is copied below (it is not final and may be subject to change).
David
Confirmed Heads of Delegation as of June 6, 2022
OFFICIAL SUMMIT DELEGATIONS



Antigua and Barbuda
The Honorable Gaston Browne, Prime Minister of Antigua and Barbuda


Argentina
His Excellency Alberto Fernández, President of the Argentine Republic


The Bahamas
The Honorable Philip Davis, Prime Minister of The Commonwealth ofThe Bahamas and Minister of Finance


Barbados
The Honorable Mia Amor Mottley, Prime Minister of Barbados


Belize
The Honorable John Briceño, Prime Minister of Belize


Bolivia
His Excellency Rogelio Mayta Mayta, Minister of External Relations of the Plurinational State of Bolivia


Brazil
His Excellency Jair Bolsonaro, President of the Federative Republic of Brazil


Canada
The Right Honorable Justin Trudeau, P.C., M.P., Prime Minister ofCanada


Chile
His Excellency Gabriel Boric Font, President of the Republic of Chile


Colombia
His Excellency Iván Duque, President of the Republic of Colombia


Costa Rica
His Excellency Rodrigo Chaves Robles, President of the Republic of Costa Rica


Dominica
The Honorable Roosevelt Skerrit, Prime Minister of the Commonwealth of Dominica


Dominican Republic
His Excellency Luis Abinader, President of the Dominican Republic


Ecuador
His Excellency Guillermo Lasso Mendoza, President of the Republic of Ecuador


El Salvador
Her Excellency Alexandra Hill, Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of El Salvador


Grenada
The Honorable Nickolas Steele, Minister for Health and Social Security of Grenada


Guatemala
His Excellency Mario Adolfo Búcaro Flores, Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Guatemala


Guyana
His Excellency Mohamed Irfaan Ali, President of the Co-operative Republic of Guyana


Haiti
His Excellency Ariel Henry, Prime Minister of the Republic of Haiti


Honduras
His Excellency Enrique Reina, Minister of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation of the Republic of Honduras


Jamaica
The Most Honorable Andrew Holness, Prime Minister of Jamaica



 



Mexico
His Excellency Marcelo Ebrard, Secretary of Foreign Affairs of the United Mexican States


Panama
His Excellency Laurentino Cortizo Cohen, President of the Republic of Panama


Paraguay
His Excellency Mario Abdo Benítez, President of the Republic ofParaguay


Peru
His Excellency Pedro Castillo, President of the Republic of Peru


Saint Kitts and Nevis
Her Excellency Thelma Browne, Ambassador of Saint Kitts and Nevis to the United States of America


Saint Lucia
The Honorable Philip J. Pierre, Prime Minister of Saint Lucia


Suriname
His Excellency Chandrikapersad Santokhi, President of the Republic of Suriname


Trinidad and Tobago
The Honorable Dr. Keith Rowley, Prime Minister of the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago


United States
The Honorable Joseph R. Biden, Jr., President of the United States of America


Uruguay
His Excellency Francisco Bustillo, Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Oriental Republic of Uruguay


Organization of American States (OAS)
His Excellency Luis Almagro, Secretary General of the Organization of American States


United Nations (UN)
His Excellency António Guterres, Secretary-General of the United Nations



JOINT SUMMIT WORKING GROUP



Caribbean Development Bank (CDB)
Dr. Gene Leon, President of the Caribbean Development Bank (CDB)


Central American Bank for Economic Integration(CABEI)
Dr. Dante Mossi, Executive President of the Central American Bank for Economic Integration (CABEI)


Development Bank of Latin America (CAF)
Mr. Sergio Diaz-Granados, Executive President of the Development Bank of Latin America (CAF)


Economic Commission on Latin America and theCaribbean (ECLAC)
Mr. Mario Cimoli, Acting Executive Secretary of the United Nations Economic Commission on Latin America and the Caribbean (ECLAC)


Inter-American Development Bank (IDB)
Mr. Benigno López Benítez, Vice President for Sectors and Knowledge of the Inter-American Development Bank


Inter-American Institutefor Cooperation on Agriculture (IICA)
Mr. Manuel Otero, Director General of the Inter-American Institute for Cooperation on Agriculture (IICA)


International Labour Organization (ILO)
Mr. Kevin F. Cassidy, Director of the International Labour Organization Office of the United States and Canada (ILO)


International Organization for Migration (IOM)
His Excellency António Vitorino, Director General of the International Organization for Migration (IOM)


Pan American Health Organization (PAHO)
Dr. Carissa Etienne, Director of the Pan American Health Organization / World Health Organization (PAHO/WHO)



 



United Nations Development Programme (UNDP)
Mr. Luis Felipe Lopez-Calva, UN Assistant Secretary General and UNDP Regional Director for Latin America and the Caribbean


The World Bank
Mr. Carlos Jaramillo, Vice President for Latin America and theCaribbean Region of The World Bank



OBSERVER DELEGATIONS



Australia
Mr. Damien Miller, Interim Ambassador to the Organization of American States of Australia


African Union
Her Excellency Hilda Suka-Mafudze, Ambassador of the African Union to the United States of America


Austria
Dr. Michael Postl, Consul General of the Republic of Austria in Los Angeles


CARICOM
Her Excellency Dr. Carla N. Barnett, Secretary-General of the Caribbean Community (CARICOM)


European Union
Her Excellency Helena König, Deputy Secretary General for Economic and Global Issues of the European External Action Service



France

Ambassador Michele Ramis, Director for the Americas and the Caribbean at the Ministry of Europe and Foreign Affairs of the French Republic


Germany
Mrs. Marian Schuegraf, Director for Latin America and the Caribbean of the Foreign Office of the Federal Republic of Germany


Holy See
His Excellency Christophe Pierre, Apostolic Nuncio to United States of America


India
Dr. Thatipamula Venkata Nagendra Prasad, Consul General of the Republic of India in San Francisco


Indonesia
The Honorable Saud P. Krisnawan, Consul General of the Republic ofIndonesia in Los Angeles



Italy

Mr. Michele Pala, Director for Latin America and the Caribbean of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation of the Italian Republic


Japan
Ambassador Maki Kobayashi, Director-General for Latin America and Caribbean Affairs Bureau of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Japan


Korea, Republic of
Ms. Han Li-Sa, Director for Division of Central America and the Caribbean of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Korea


Kosovo
Her Excellency Donika Gërvalla-Schwarz, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs and Diaspora of the Republic of Kosovo



Netherlands

Ms. Yvette van Eechoud, Senior Director for the Western Hemisphere (Americas/Caribbean) of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of theNetherlands


Norway
Mrs. Gro Dahle, Deputy Chief of Mission of the Embassy of Norway to Mexico



Portugal

Mrs. Alexandra Bilreiro, Deputy Head of Misson and Alternate Permanent Observer to the Organization of American States of the Portuguese Republic


Senegal
Her Excellency Aïssata Tall Sall, Minister of Foreign Affairs of theRepublic of Senegal



 



Slovenia
Mr. Bostjan Persin, Political Counsellor of the Embassy of Slovenia to the United States


Spain
His Excellency José Manuel Albares-Bueno, Minister of Foreign Affairs, European Union and Cooperation of Spain


Sweden
Mrs. Anne-Charlotte Merrell Wetterwik, Political Officer of theEmbassy of Sweden to the United States


Switzerland
Ambassador Balz Abplanalp, Consul General of the Swiss Confederation in San Francisco


Thailand
Ms. Chuliepote Isarankura Na Ayudhaya, Minister Counsellor of the Embassy of Thailand to the United States


Ukraine
Her Excellency Oksana Markarova, Ambassador of Ukraine to theUnited States of America



United Kingdom

Mrs. Vicky Ford, Minister for Africa, Latin America and the Caribbean of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland


United Nations RefugeeAgency
Mr. Filippo Grandi, United






June 7, 202210:54

WH in-town pool report #2/ List of bills that POTUS will sign today
From the White House:
'The President will sign the following bills this afternoon:
Signing Order

S. 1872: United States Army Rangers Veterans of World War II Congressional Gold Medal Act
S. 1760: Daniel Kahikina Akaka Department of Veterans Affairs Community-Based Outpatient Clinic
S. 2514: Col. Gail S. Halvorsen "Candy Bomber" Veterans Center
S. 3527: VA Facility Name Transfer Act
S. 2687: Strengthening Oversight for Veterans Act of 2021
S. 4089: Veterans Rapid Retraining Assistance Program Restoration and Recovery Act of 2022
S. 4119: Radiation Exposure Compensation Extension Act of 2022
S. 2533: Making Advances in Mammography and Medical Options for Veterans Act
S. 2102: Dr. Kate Hendricks Thomas Supporting Expanded Review for Veterans in Combat Environments (SERVICE) Act'




June 7, 202211:26

WH in-town pool report #3/ Meeting with Senator Murphy
From the White House:
'This morning, the President will meet with Senator Chris Murphy (CT) to discuss ongoing negotiations in the Senate on gun reform.'



June 7, 202212:54

WH in-town pool report #4/ Actor Matthew McConaughey will be speaking at the briefing
From the White House:
'Two notes:
The President's meeting with Senator Murphy began at 11:31 AM and ended at 12:10 PM.
Matthew McConaughey, a native of Uvalde, father, and gun owner, will join Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre at today's press briefing to deliver remarks.'



June 7, 202214:23

WH in-town pool report #5/ Two minute warning for briefing
We have a two minute warning for the press briefing. There are more journalists standing in the aisles than usual in anticipation of Matthew McConaughey's remarks but not on the scale of BTS-mania.
Livestream will be here:
https://www.whitehouse.gov/live/



June 7, 202214:28

WH in-town pool report #6/ Briefing starts
The White House press briefing started at 2.25pm. Actor Matthew McConaughey, wearing a dark jacket and white shirt (no tie), is standing behind Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre, who said McConaughey met "briefly" with POTUS a few minutes ago.
Livestream here:
https://www.whitehouse.gov/live/



June 7, 202214:55

WH in-town pool report #7/ POTUS bill signings delayed
After impassioned remarks about gun safety and a plea for unity, actor Matthew McConaughey left the briefing room at 2.48pm and did not take questions.
Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre then noted that POTUS's bill signing event is running "a few minutes" late. Latest word to pool and pre-credentialed media is to wait for now and expect to gather after the briefing.



June 7, 202215:09

WH in-town pool report #8/ Briefing ends, pool gathers
The briefing ended at 3.01pm. Pool has now gathered in the state dining room, which is crowded, for POTUS's bill signings.
Livestream here:
https://www.whitehouse.gov/live/



June 7, 202215:14

WH in-town pool report #9/ Briefing will resume later
From the White House:
'The press briefing will resume when the President's event ends.'
And regarding the imminent bill signings:
'Speaking Program:

Denis McDonough, Secretary of Veterans Affairs
The President

Joining the President for the signing of Bills S. 1872, S. 1760, S. 2514, S. 3527, S. 2687, S. 4089, S. 4119, S. 2533, S. 2102:

Senator John Boozman (AR)
Senator Susan Collins (ME)
Senator Joni Ernst (IA)
Senator John Hickenlooper (CO)
Senator Mazie Hirono (HI)
Senator Ben Ray Lujan (NM)
Senator Joe Manchin (WV)
Senator Jon Tester (MN)
Representative John Curtis (UT-03)
Representative Danny Davis (IL-07)
Representative Kai Kahele (HI-02)
Representative Mariannette Miller-Meeks (IA-02)
Representative Blake Moore (UT-01)
Representative Mark Takano (UT-01)
Representative Lauren Underwood (IL-14)
The family of former Marine Corps Officer Kate Thomas'




June 7, 202215:22

WH in-town pool report #10/ POTUS bill signing event under way
Wearing a dark blue suit, white shirt and red tie, POTUS entered the State Dining Room a step behind Denis McDonough, Secretary of Veterans Affairs, at 3.14pm. POTUS smiled as he walked over to greet someone (invisible to the pool) on the front row.
Secretary McDonough made brief remarks and introduced POTUS at 3.17pm. There was applause. "It's good to see you all," POTUS began. He will soon sign nine separate bills.
Livestream here:
https://www.whitehouse.gov/live/



June 7, 202215:32

WH in-town pool report #11/ POTUS bill signing event ends
POTUS finished speaking at 3.27pm then sat at a small table and signed nine bills relating to veterans. Senators Susan Collins, Joe Manchin and Jon Tester stood directly behind him as he signed, mostly in silence, then there was applause. POTUS said: "Thank you, all." Music began to play.



June 7, 202215:55

WH in-town pool report #12/ POTUS leaves room without responding to questions
POTUS did not respond to shouted questions about gun safety but continued to mingle with guests at the bill signing event for about 20 minutes. Reporters made another attempt at questions but POTUS left the room at 3.52pm.



June 7, 202216:10

WH in-town pool report #13/ Two minute warning for resumption of press briefing
We have had a two minute warning for press briefing part two.
Livestream here:
https://www.whitehouse.gov/live/



June 7, 202216:14

WH in-town pool report #14/ Briefing resumes
Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre returned at 4.11pm to a briefing room that has a few more empty seats than usual.
She began: "I am back by popular demand... Sorry about that. There are times when briefings get delayed for reasons beyond our control."
Livestream here:
https://www.whitehouse.gov/live/



June 7, 202216:39

WH in-town pool report #15/ Briefing ends
Part two of the press briefing ended at 4.37pm.



June 7, 202216:54

WH in-town pool report #16/ Lid
A travel/ photo lid was called at 4.51pm.




  