
    Pool Reports by Judy Kurtz, The Hill 



Sent:
Reports:




June 22, 202317:59

Booksellers pool report #1
Good evening from Booksellers, a hall in the East Wing where guests will be arriving for tonight's state dinner for India's Prime Minister Narendra Modi at the White House.
There are roughly 400 guests at tonight's dinner, according to a White House official.
Guests began arriving at 5:47 p.m. Guests are passing some candles adorned on the floor as they arrive. Three Indian flags and three American flags, as well as a large floral arrangement and a set of six hedges are also part of the decor.
White House social secretary Carlos Elizondo had said at a media preview on Wednesday that the inspiration for the state dinner design started with the peacock, India's national bird.
Among some of the names attending, just announced by the White House: Billie Jean King, M. Night Shyamalan, fashion designers Reem Acra and Ralph Lauren, Tim Cook, Huma Abedin, Attorney General Merrick Garland, Hunter Biden, House Speaker Kevin McCarthy (R-Calif.) and James Murdoch.
More to come. 


June 22, 2023 18:44

Booksellers pool report #2
Naomi Biden whizzed by, declining to answer a question about the designer of her gown. Asked how she's enjoying married life, Biden — who got married in a ceremony at the White House last November — replied, "Great."
Violinist Joshua Bell acknowledged he had a few nerves before performing at the state dinner, saying that it's "just not my usual thing."
Asked how he'll warm up, Bell told your pooler that he'll have to slip out of the dinner to prep for his performance, which is taking place after the meal.
"I wish I could play first and then drink a little wine," Bell said.
Asked what he thinks of Prime Minister Modi, Bell replied, "So I try to stay away from politics, but I love Indian music."
Secretary of State Antony Blinken paused in front of cameras as he made his way through Booksellers, but quickly continued on his way after reporters asked about his trip to China.
Ralph Lauren, sporting a tuxedo and a pair of gray New Balance sneakers, said he designed Jill Biden's dress for tonight's state dinner. A White House official confirmed Lauren as the designer of the first lady's gown. Asked if he wanted to give a preview of the dress, Lauren quipped with a smile, "No."


June 22, 2023 19:42

Booksellers pool report #3
Speaker Kevin McCarthy, accompanied by his daughter-in-law, was asked about being at the state dinner along with both Merrick Garland and Hunter Biden.
McCarthy: "I look forward to taking my daughter-in-law for the very first time to the White House. Every state dinner I brought another member of my family."
McCarthy on his reaction to Modi's joint address to Congress earlier today: "I thought it was an excellent speech."
Rep. Steve Scalise (R-La.) was asked the same question as McCarthy about being at dinner with Hunter Biden and Garland.
Scalise: "It should be an interesting dinner. Obviously Prime Minister Modi just gave a great address to a joint session of Congress, talked a lot about the importance of our relationship as the world's oldest democracy here in America, the world's largest democracy and all the rest of the world, especially in the Indo-Pacific region. It's more important than ever that we continue to forge strong bonds."
Apple CEO Tim Cook flashed a peace sign as he strolled by reporters.


June 22, 2023 20:07

Booksellers pool report #4
Tennis champion Billie Jean King, was asked how many state dinners she's been to.
"That's a good question. I don't know. Not too many. I'm always working," King said.
Sen. Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y.), joined by his daughter-in-law, responded to a question about the most important priority for India-America relations: "It's a great relationship. It's going to be one of the most important relationships in the next century. And India, and the West, if we come together it's a great bulwark against some of the things the Chinese are doing."
I'm including a longer quote from Speaker McCarthy, who was also asked earlier about the most important priority for U.S.-India relations:"I think the future. We are the oldest democracy and India is the largest democracy. We can show the entire world how democracies work better, but more importantly, bring the world to a freer place. And I think a stronger bond — we should work to be able to expand our military foreign sales to India, technology between the two nations, continue to build healthy economies, and I think the world itself will be in a better balance and stronger for the next generation."
And a full quote from McCarthy on Prime Minister Modi:"I thought it was an excellent speech. I got to spend a lot of time with him today. This is his second time speaking. I wanted to make sure to have the invitation for the rest of the world to see what a job he's been doing and the improvement in India under his leadership."
Asked if he got an autograph from Modi, McCarthy exclaimed, "I did get an autograph, too!"
A big thanks to Nikki Schwab for helping your pooler tonight and also to Roxanne Roberts for the assist with quotes.
Guest arrivals for the state dinner concluded at 7:15 p.m.



  