
    "This administration has been pursuing policies that are literally hostile to the creation of jobs. You can't be pro-business and be hostile to job creation. Things like Obamacare, increased regulations, is just stifling the ability for job creators to create jobs." – Lt. Gov. Brian Krolicki
Lt. Gov. Brian Krolicki, Debbie Somers, Somers Furniture, and Tim Wulf, Jimmy John Gourmet Sandwiches
"President Obama Is Hostile To Nevada Job Creators" Press Conference Call
June 4, 2012
Click Here To Listen To The Entire Call
Highlights From The "President Obama Is Hostile To Nevada Job Creators" Press Conference Call:
LT. GOV. BRIAN KROLICKI: "This administration has been pursuing policies that are literally hostile to the creation of jobs. You can't be pro-business and be hostile to job creation. Things like Obamacare, increased regulations, is just stifling the ability for job creators to create jobs. Nevada certainly has been hit harder than most states. While our numbers have improved slightly we are still at the top of this country in terms of unemployment. We are very supportive of the policies that Governor Romney has proposed. He has a tremendous track record of success whether it was Bain in the private sector, turning around the Winter Olympics, as the Governor of Massachusetts, and my absolute confidence as the next President of the United States of America."
...
DEBBIE SOMERS, SOMERS FURNITURE: "What we need with the Romney campaign is that we need, we need help, we need the ability to compete with out of country goods and services. We need tax incentives, no Obamacare, and lower the energy costs just to survive. And hopefully we'll be able to hire more employees and keep the economy going."
...
TIM WULF, JIMMY JOHN GOURMET SANDWICHES: "It became apparent that the business climate was going to change. It wasn't the recession so much that hurt us. It was policies that were being projected in the campaign, the election, and then of course after President Obama was elected, the policies he actually put forth. Small businesses are planners. They have to know what the rules are. And with energy policies that he has, and policies regarding regulation, and Obamacare, and with all the incredible spending that is taking place we're fearful about debt and interest, our own interest expense. So, what my business did, which continues to be very successful, is we just contracted. We just started playing defense. We just went on and instead of being in growth mode we just went backwards. We said we got to protect what we've got and we've kind of got to ride out the storm and see what the rules are."
  