
    Pool Reports by Nikki Schwab, Daily Mail 



Sent:
Reports:




June 20, 202211:12

Travel Pool Report No. 1 - pool has gathered
Good morning from Rehoboth Beach! Your pool is gathered on the literal beach. We're standing on a sand dune awaiting POTUS' arrival.
More TK.



June 20, 202211:31

Travel Pool Report No. 2 - beach walk/taking questions
President Biden slowly walked down the beach with family members. As more beach goers caught on several dozen people moved toward him and he appeared to be taking pictures with them. (He was still quite far away from the pool.)
He's wearing a Navy shirt, khaki shorts, the same blue shoes he wore biking and a navy ball cap.
As he got closer he took a picture with a small blonde girl.
He's with Ashley, Naomi, Peter and another grandchild.
He's talking - will send quotes asap.
Spoke about the bike fall, Apple union, gas tax, student loans, guns.
"That's my press secretary daughter," he said as Ashley tried to pull him away.



June 20, 202211:40

Travel Pool Report No. 3 - Otter
Here's at Otter link to the gaggle since he's still walking -
https://otter.ai/u/j0Zl8ZjGTw7u2nChUQ6u3G0XiwQ
He stopped talking to press at 11:33 a.m.
Natalie Biden was the other grandchild.
More TK



June 20, 202211:45

Travel Pool Report No. 4 - Biden departs beach
At 11:41 a.m. the Bidens walked off the beach.
Pool is holding on a sand dune.
More TK



June 20, 202211:50

Travel Pool Report No. 3a - better Otter
Hi there – apologies for sending a truncated Otter clip, here’s the one I recorded:
https://otter.ai/u/vsV6WCcbrFSElzewr2hOxC-sQx0
It’s missing the top of the Q&A as I was filming on video. Will upload that footage to the Dropbox shortly.
Thanks all!



June 20, 202212:02

Travel Pool Report No. 5 - lid until 6/more quotes
The White House has called a lid until 6 p.m.
Bike:
"I'm feeling great. I'm feeling great. What happened was, do any of you guys ride bikes? Well, they have some that have this thing you put your toe in — holds your foot so it doesn't slip out. I was getting off the bike, and it got stuck on the right side.
I'm fine."
Gas tax:
"Yes I's considering it, I hope to have a decision based on the data I'm looking for by the end the week."
Are you still planning to go to Ukaine?
"That depends."
On what?
"On a lot of things relating to whether or not it causes more difficulty for the Ukrainians, whether it distracts from what's going on, but I have been – I have been meeting with Zelensky – I talk to him three, four times a week. But I'll be heading to Germany, and I'm going to Spain, I'm going to Isreal, and I'm going to Saudi Arabia for a larger meeting of the community there. And then I'll be coming home probably, direct."
So not going to Ukraine on this trip.
"On this trip, not likely."



June 20, 202212:32

White House Pool Report No. 6/even more quotes - correx lid until 6:30
Correction the lid is until 6:30 p.m.
Are you close to making a decision on student debt?
"Yes."
Would you extend the pause for a couple months?
"It's all on the table right now."
Apple:
"I'm proud of them. You know, workers have a right to determine under what conditions they're gonna work or not. And I think the thing that everybody kind of misunderstands about unions, they tend to be, especially in the trades, the best workers in the world."
Guns:
"I'm confident that there's a serious, serious negotiation that's very close. It depends on whether or not particularly Republicans have to stay …" (inaudible)
He then talks about what Delaware, other states are doing
Ukraine becoming a member of the EU?
"I think that's very likely to happen."
"That's my press secretary daughter."
People are saying a recession is more likely than ever:
No the majority of them aren't saying that. Don't make things up. Now you sound like a Republican politician. That's a joke, that was a joke."
There is nothing inevitable about a recession."
"I think we're gonna be able to get a change in Medicare and a reduction in the cost of insulin."
"We also can move in a direction that we can provide for the tax increase in the tax taxes. … in the corporate area as well as individuals as it relates to Trump's tax cut, which is inflation. Going out and buying a yacht doesn't help the economy a whole lot."
Oil meeting
"My team is going to be sitting down with the CEOs of major oil companies this week and deciding to get an explanation on how they justify making 35 billion dollars ion the first quarter."
What did you get Dr. Biden for their anniversary?
"Secret"
Any top line goals for G7 and G20?
"Yes, one of the things that you may recall that I initiated was the international flat tax. We got 140-some nations to sign on. I'm coming," he says to Natalie.
"This is my son Beau's oldest daughter and she's trying to tell me dad, grandpa, pop, get going."
What did you do for father's day?
"We had dinner."
"And we did puzzles," said Natalie Biden.
"All hung out together," said Ashley Biden.



June 20, 202220:00

Travel Pool Report No. 7 - Rehoboth departure
The motorcade pulled up to Marine One at 7:51 p.m.
The president and Dr. Biden got out of their black SUV at 7:52 p.m. and stepped onto Marine One at 7:53.
Pool is located on a dune fairly far away so pooler was unable to positively ID anyone else getting on board with the naked eye. It appears Commander boarded with the family and one of the granddaughters, but in-town pool should verify.
Marine One lifted off at 7:58 p.m.
Handing it off to the in-town pool.



June 20, 202220:06

Travel Pool Report No. 8 - M1 travelers - Willow/Commander driving back
The White House says that Commander and Willow are driving back to the White House.
Travelling with the President and First Lady aboard Marine One en route the White House:
Anthony Bernal, Assistant to the President & Advisor to the First Lady
Thanks to NYT's Zachary Montague for co-pooling this weekend. It's been a memorable one!




 
Pool Reports below by Tia Mitchell, The Atlanta Journal-Constitution 



Sent:
Reports:




June 20, 202220:41

In town pool report #1
Pool is gathered at the Palm Room doors to be escorted to South Lawn for Marine One arrival. ETA per schedule is 9:10 pm



June 20, 202221:00

In town pool report #2
Marine One landed at 8:53 p.m.
The president jogged down the steps a minute later and then waited for the First Lady to come down. They walked to the White House holding hands. The president did not stop to chat with pool or answer any shouted questions.
Naomi Biden and her fiancé, Peter Neal, exited and walked in behind the First Couple. They were walking a dog. Sadly, we don't have further info on the dog./td>



June 20, 202221:06

In town pool report #3 (Lid)
Lid called at 9 p.m.
P.S.: Naomi Biden is Joe Biden's granddaughter




  