
    Article Excerpts:
LAKE BUENA VISTA, Fla. -- John McCain told Florida newspaper editors on Thursday he would support continuing space shuttle missions beyond 2010, when the space flights are now scheduled to end.
But he said the country needs to rethink the way it communicates with Americans about the space program.
"We need to do a better job of getting support of the American people and outlining specific missions for NASA," McCain said, responding to a question from Florida Today executive editor Terry Eberle, whose paper serves Melbourne and the Space Coast.
More than 8,000 NASA contractor jobs in the nation's manned space program could be eliminated after the space shuttle program is shut down. Manned space flights aren't expected to resume until the Constellation program begins in 2015. Eberle asked McCain if he'd be willing to spend taxpayer money to continue shuttle missions another year or two, noting the United States will have to rely on Russia to maintain the international space station.
The Republican nominee-in-waiting said he would.
"Of course I'm disturbed when we have to rely on the Russians or any other country. As you know, the Chinese are getting also very big into the space business," McCain said.
McCain, who spoke at the annual Florida Society of Newspaper Editors/Florida Press Association annual convention, also expressed support for manned Mars missions, saying he was a huge fan of author Ray Bradbury's 1950 novel "The Martian Chronicles."
"I am intrigued by a man on Mars and I think that it would excite the imagination of the American people if we can say, 'Hey, here's what it looks like. We know that now, and here's what may be there and let's all join in that project,'" McCain said. . . .
Asked what he would do to prevent race from being an issue as he faces Obama, McCain acknowledged that racist comments from time to time were a part of the Democratic nominating process, but he believes the vast majority of voters rejected those comments.
"They don't want that in the United States of America," McCain said. "I will do everything I can to keep anything that may be that kind of ugliness out of this political campaign, and the best way to do that, I think, is to show, always, respect, for your opponent."
McCain, who as a Navy pilot spent more than five years in a North Vietnamese prison, was asked what historical lessons he learned from the Vietnam War. He said a leader has to gain the country's support and have a clear strategy for victory before going to war. He also said it's important for a leader to make sure Congress and Americans are informed about what the nation is doing and why during a conflict. . . .
Click here to read the entire article.
  