
    Pool Reports by Nadia Bilbassy, Al-Arabiya 



Sent:
Reports:




June 4, 2023 14:10 WEST

FLOTUS Pool #1 Marrakech, Morocco
Good morning on this beautiful mild weather day from Marrakech, we left the hotel around 10:30 am and joined FLOTUS's motorcade to a closed press event where she met with embassy staff from Rabat, we were holding in a van for a short time before heading to the Madrasa that took us through the most famous market in the old city in Marrakesh. Tourists were walking briskly wondering about the VIP guest.
We walked through artisan shops selling traditional fabrics and jewelries, few cafes dotted the narrow alleys with stones, some small restaurants were preparing lunch meals, the smell of carmalized onion felled the thin air as we were holding for her in the beautiful Sook.
The wait was around 15 minutes before she emerged in a brigh red dress walking with her staff and other officials, your pooler and other local press were told to move quickly through the narrow alleyways full with tourists, secret agents and shop keepers.
Press rushed through main narrow door of the old Madrasa Ben Youssef, an impressive ancient building with colorful tiles and a pool in the courtyard.
FLOTUS walked in with the US ambassador Puneet Talwar and few officials both Morrocans and Americans. Mr Larbi Bazzi the curator of Ben Youssef Madrasa was explaining to her about the school which in effect considered one of the most well known cultural site in North Africa, your pooler couldn't hear well what he was saying to her.
Inside the building she was meeting with social and environmental activists. The meeting itself wad closed press. After the pool spay we were sprinting again through the alleyways of the market to reach the motorcade. On her way back through the market FLOTUS bought rose potpourri from a local shop keeper.
We are holding in a van waiting for our next stop with is Ennakhil association.
Here is more background on the Madrasa and FLOTUS activities from her office.
DAY 6 OF 7: SUNDAY, JUNE 4, 2023
Marrakech, Morocco: Meet with staff and families of U.S. Embassy Rabat and U.S. Consulate General Casablanca
In the morning, the First Lady will greet families and staff of U.S. Embassy Rabat and U.S. Consulate General Casablanca. This visit will be closed press.
Marrakech, Morocco: Visit to Ben Youssef Madrasa
In the afternoon, the First Lady will visit the Ben Youssef Madrasa, once one of the largest Islamic Educational institutions in North Africa. This visit will be pooled press.
During the visit, the First Lady will be joined by young Moroccan leaders, as well as U.S. and Moroccan officials, including:

Mohamed Mehdi Bensaid, Minister of Youth, Culture, and Communication of Morocco
Governor Karim Kassi-Lahlou, Wali of the Marrakech-Safi Region and Governor of Marrakech
Fatima Zahra Mansouri, Mayor of Marrakech and Minister of National Planning, Urban Planning, Housing, and Urban Policy 
Samir Goodar, President of the Marrakech-Safi Regional Council 
Ambassador Puneet Talwar, U.S. Ambassador to the Kingdom of MoroccoLarbi Bazzi, Ben Youssef Madrasa Curator
Abdulatif El Kerchi, Professor and Ben Youssef Madrasa Tour Guide
Ghita Mizdid, Medical Intern and Graduate of the University of Medicine in Fes
Saad Abid, Founder of Bahri Association

About the Ben Youssef Madrasa The Ben Youssef Madrasa is an iconic historical and educational institution located in the heart of the medina of Marrakech. It is one of the most renowned examples of Islamic architecture in the city and is considered a significant cultural and historical site. The Madrasa was established as a center for Islamic education and learning, primarily focusing on Quranic studies and Islamic sciences. It served as a theological college and hosted students from various parts of North Africa and beyond.
Marrakech, Morocco: Visit to the Ennakhil Association
In the afternoon, as part of the First Lady's work to empower women and youth around the world, Dr. Biden will meet with Moroccan women at the Ennakhil Association, a Moroccan nonprofit organization in Marrakech, and deliver remarks. During the visit, Dr. Biden will meet with the staff and participants of two programs funded by the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID), including the Ennakhil Association and the Cooperative Financing Program. This visit will demonstrate the U.S. Government's continued commitment and partnership with the Moroccan Government to support women and women's economic empowerment. This visit will be pooled press.
The First Lady will be joined by Moroccan women, members of the Ennakhil Association, and U.S. and Moroccan officials, including:

Ambassador Puneet Talwar, U.S. Ambassador to the Kingdom of Morocco
Mohammed Dardouri, Wali-National Coordinator of the National Initiative for Human Development
Dr. Lhoucine Raji, President, Ennakhil Association
Zakia Mrini, Founder and Secretary General of Ennakhil Association
Jamila Abass, Country Director of GiveDirectly Morocco and Chief of Party of the Cooperative Financing Program
Juan Carlos Rodriguez, Director for the General Development Office, USAID Morocco 

Speaking program:

Ambassador Puneet Talwar, U.S. Ambassador to the Kingdom of Morocco
Manal Benchlikha, Moroccan singer-songwriter and entrepreneur
First Lady Jill Biden

About the Ennakhil Association Ennakhil Association is a woman-founded, non-governmental organization based in Marrakech, Morocco, that champions women's rights and has been working for over 25 years to promote gender equality and the legal, political, socioeconomic and educational rights of women and girls. Ennakhil Association was founded in 1997 by Ms. Zakia Mrini and a group of women leaders with the mission to reinforce equal human rights in laws and public policies by supporting stakeholders and advocating at the national and local levels. USAID partnered with Ennakhil to strengthen capacities of regional civil society organizations (CSOs) and to address increased gender-based violence during the COVID-19 pandemic.
About Manal Benchlikha Manal Benchlikha, raised in Marrakech, Morocco, is currently one of the country's most popular singers and songwriters. At the age of 29, urban pop singer-songwriter Benchlikha has reached audiences from around the globe, and advocates for women and youth empowerment. Benchlikha was considered an artistic activist as early as 2014, when she encouraged the younger generation to vote in the national elections in the music video "Mantsayadch," inspiring everyone from millennials to university-level lecturers. After releasing her first album "360" in 2021, Benchlikha's song "NIYA" became an international success and paid tribute to Moroccan culture. Benchlikha was the first Arab female artist to be on COLORS, with her song "3ARI," where she denounces the suffering of women all over the world from domestic abuse. Benchlikha recently took part in writing and singing the World Cup song released with other female artists and performed in the World Cup Finale.


June 4, 2023 17:42 WEST

FLOTUS Pool #2 Marrakech, Morocco
Motorcade rolled to Ennakhill Association, around 15 minutes' drive from the Madraasa , press pool entered the four-story building to a setup of white umbrellas, wooden chairs and few green trees on the rooftop.
US ambassador Puneet Talwar said (We're thrilled to be joined by the President of six cooperatives who have received grants from the US agency from the United States Agency for International Development. These cooperatives generating economic growth and jobs in their communities that we are proud to work with). He then introduced Moroccan singer Manal Benchlikha to the podium against a huge backdrop of a USAID banner.
FLOTUS visited Ennakhil Association as part of her work to empower women and young people around the world.
Ms Benchilkha talked about using her music to empower women, her song Niya which means intention in Arabic highlights that. She said, " I would like to sincerely thank the First Lady for her mobilization for women and for including Moroccan women into this whole dynamic."
The First Lady took the podium, the entire speech is copied here via the link below but here are some highlights:
We are reminded that when women come together to mentor and mend, to tell stories, we can rewrite narratives of injustice and inequality.
She talked about Latifa Ibn Ziaten who received the US courage award after her son was killed by terrorists.
She mentioned the work princess Lalla Hasna does in educating young people about protecting the environment.
Afterwards that she joined the women who suffered domestic violence, they demonstrated their products and told their stories, they clustered around her, and she invited them to take a photo .
A series of gifts were presented to her, your pooler saw a bed cover, a golden painted tray, an embroidered tablecloth, then one of women threw a velvet cloak around her, Dr Biden said (I feel like a Princess).
The women invited her inside a large room to sample some of their traditional Moroccan food that was in full display.
She listened to more explanation about the legal and economic support the association gives to women, one of the highlights was the direct link direct link between COVID 19 and domestic violence increase.
Pool exited the building before FLOTUS, motorcade moved towards the hotel through immaculate leafy streets.
I was told no more public events for the First Lady tonight.
Have a great Sunday everyone.
From the First Lady's office :
In the afternoon, as part of the First Lady's work to empower women and youth around the world, Dr. Biden will meet with Moroccan women at the Ennakhil Association, a Moroccan nonprofit organization in Marrakech, and deliver remarks. During the visit, Dr. Biden will meet with the staff and participants of two programs funded by the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID), including the Ennakhil Association and the Cooperative Financing Program. This visit will demonstrate the U.S. Government's continued commitment and partnership with the Moroccan Government to support women and women's economic empowerment. This visit will be pooled press.
The First Lady will be joined by Moroccan women, members of the Ennakhil Association, and U.S. and Moroccan officials, including:

Ambassador Puneet Talwar, U.S. Ambassador to the Kingdom of Morocco
Mohammed Dardouri, Wali-National Coordinator of the National Initiative for Human Development
Dr. Lhoucine Raji, President, Ennakhil Association
Zakia Mrini, Founder and Secretary General of Ennakhil Association
Jamila Abass, Country Director of GiveDirectly Morocco and Chief of Party of the Cooperative Financing Program
Juan Carlos Rodriguez, Director for the General Development Office, USAID Morocco 

 Speaking program:

Ambassador Puneet Talwar, U.S. Ambassador to the Kingdom of Morocco


Manal Benchlikha, Moroccan singer-songwriter and entrepreneur


First Lady Jill Biden

About the Ennakhil AssociationEnnakhil Association is a woman-founded, non-governmental organization based in Marrakech, Morocco, that champions women's rights and has been working for over 25 years to promote gender equality and the legal, political, socioeconomic and educational rights of women and girls. Ennakhil Association was founded in 1997 by Ms. Zakia Mrini and a group of women leaders with the mission to reinforce equal human rights in laws and public policies by supporting stakeholders and advocating at the national and local levels. USAID partnered with Ennakhil to strengthen capacities of regional civil society organizations (CSOs) and to address increased gender-based violence during the COVID-19 pandemic.
Here is a link to her full remarks :
https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/06/04/remarks-as-prepared-for-delivery-by-first-lady-jill-biden-at-a-womens-empowerment-event-at-the-ennakhil-association/
About Manal BenchlikhaManal Benchlikha, raised in Marrakech, Morocco, is currently one of the country's most popular singers and songwriters. At the age of 29, urban pop singer-songwriter Benchlikha has reached audiences from around the globe, and advocates for women and youth empowerment. Benchlikha was considered an artistic activist as early as 2014, when she encouraged the younger generation to vote in the national elections in the music video "Mantsayadch," inspiring everyone from millennials to university-level lecturers. After releasing her first album "360" in 2021, Benchlikha's song "NIYA" became an international success and paid tribute to Moroccan culture. Benchlikha was the first Arab female artist to be on COLORS, with her song "3ARI," where she denounces the suffering of women all over the world from domestic abuse. Benchlikha recently took part in writing and singing the World Cup song released with other female artists and performed in the World Cup Finale.



\r\n
  