
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
June 20 [v]1
The President announced his intention to nominate William H. Itoh as Ambassador to Thailand.
June 24
In the morning, the President went from Little Rock, AR, to Pine Bluff, AR, where he met with community leaders in the Banquet Hall at the Pine Bluff Convention Center. He returned to Little Rock in the late afternoon.
June 25
In the afternoon, the President traveled to San Francisco, CA.
June 26
In the afternoon, the President met with President Lech Walesa of Poland in the Foyer at Herbst Theater.
In the evening, the President attended a dinner hosted by Walter Shorenstein at his residence. Following the dinner, he traveled to Portland, OR.
The President announced his intention to nominate Eluid Levi Martinez as Commissioner of the Bureau of Reclamation at the Department of the Interior.
The President announced his intention to appoint Richard L. Bloch and Stanley S. Shuman to the President's Foreign Intelligence Advisory Board.
The President declared a major disaster in the State of Oklahoma and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms, flooding, and tornadoes beginning May 26.
June 27
In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC.
The President announced his intention to nominate George D. Milidrag to serve as a member of the Advisory Board of the Saint Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation.
June 28
The President announced his intention to nominate the following individuals to the following ambassadorial posts:
—Thomas W. Simons, Jr., Ambassador to Pakistan;
—John M. Yates, Ambassador to Benin;
—Frances D. Cook, Ambassador to Oman;
—J. Stapleton Roy, Ambassador to Indonesia.
The President announced that he has designated Joseph Stiglitz as Chair and that he intends to nominate Alicia Munnell as a member of the President's Council of Economic Advisers.
June 29
In the afternoon, the President attended a memorial service for former Supreme Court Chief Justice Warren E. Burger at the National Presbyterian Church.
In the late afternoon, the President and Hillary Clinton traveled to Chicago, IL.
The President announced his intention to nominate Stanley A. Riveles for the rank of Ambassador during his tenure of service as U.S. Commissioner to the Standing Consultative Commission.
The President announced his intention to nominate William Harrison Courtney as Ambassador to the Republic of Georgia.
June 30
In the afternoon, the President and Hillary Clinton attended the annual luncheon of the American Association of Physicians from India at the Sheraton Chicago. They then traveled to Miami, FL.
The President announced his intention to nominate Howard M. Schloss to be Assistant Secretary for Public Affairs at the Department of the Treasury.
The President announced his intention to nominate John W. Douglass to be Assistant Secretary of the Navy for Research, Development and Acquisition.
The President announced his intention to appoint Arva Moore Parks to the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation.
  