
    If confirmed, Kyle Fortson of the District of Columbia will serve as a member of the National Mediation Board for the remainder of a three-year term expiring July 1, 2019. Ms. Fortson is currently the labor policy director at the U.S. Senate Health Education Labor and Pensions Committee, having served in that position since 2010. Ms. Fortson previously served as labor counsel at the same committee from 2004 to 2010. Before that, she was a policy analyst and counsel at the Senate Republican Committee from 2003 to 2004, and served as counsel to Senator Tim Hutchinson from 2001 to 2003. She also served as judiciary counsel to Congressman Spencer Bachus from 1999 to 2001. Ms. Fortson graduated with a B.A in History from the University of Colorado in 1996, and with a J.D. from George Washington University in 1999.
-------
President Donald J. Trump Announces Intent to Appoint James McDonnell to the Department of Homeland Security
James McDonnell of Virginia to be Director for Domestic Nuclear Detection, Department of Homeland Security. Mr. McDonnell has extensive experience directing and overseeing physical asset protection, nuclear counterterrorism operations, cybersecurity programs, and government-private sector partnerships. Over his career, he has provided expert advice to the Department of Homeland Security on weapons of mass destruction programs and supplied large firms and government agencies terrorism-related risk management, crisis management, emergency response, and infrastructure protection solutions. Mr. McDonnell most recently served as the CEO of I'm Safe Apps, LLC, a technology start-up he co-founded that delivers smartphone and Internet-based technologies. Before that, he was Chairman and CEO of Trinity Applied Strategies Corporation, a security management consulting firm. Mr. McDonnell served 20 years in the U.S. Navy and was the Senior Explosive Ordnance Disposal Officer in the U.S. Special Operations Command. He received a M.A. from Georgetown University and a B.S. at Regents College, University of the State of New York.
  