
    President Donald J. Trump today announced his second wave of United States Attorney candidates. The United States Attorney serves as the chief Federal law enforcement officer within his or her Federal judicial district. These candidates share the President's vision for "Making America Safe Again." Accordingly, the President today announced his intent to nominate these individuals to serve as United States Attorney:
If confirmed, Kurt Alme of Montana will serve as the United States Attorney for the District of Montana. Mr. Alme is currently the President and General Counsel of the Yellowstone Boys and Girls Ranch Foundation, which provides mental health services and substance abuse support for children. From 2003 to 2010, Mr. Alme served in the U.S. Attorney's Office for the District of Montana, and was the First Assistant United States Attorney from 2006 to 2010. He has previously served as director of the Montana Department of Revenue. Mr. Alme was also a partner with the law firm of Crowley, Haughey, Hanson, Toole & Dietrich, PLLP. Mr. Alme clerked for the Honorable Charles C. Lovell of the United States District Court for the District of Montana. Mr. Alme graduated from the University of Colorado and from Harvard Law School.
If confirmed, Donald Q. Cochran of Tennessee will serve as the United States Attorney for the Middle District of Tennessee. Mr. Cochran is currently a law professor at Belmont University College of Law in Nashville, Tennessee, where he teaches courses in criminal law and trial advocacy. Mr. Cochran was previously a professor at Cumberland School of Law in Birmingham, Alabama. From 1998 to 2002, Mr. Cochran was an Assistant United States Attorney in the Northern District of Alabama. During that time, he prosecuted white collar crimes, public corruption, and violent crimes, including the final defendant charged with the 1963 bombing of the Sixteenth Street Baptist Church in Birmingham, Alabama. Mr. Cochran began his career as a prosecutor in the Jefferson County (Birmingham, Alabama) District Attorney's Office, where he prosecuted homicides, sexual assaults, and other violent crimes. Mr. Cochran clerked for the Honorable Julie E. Carnes of the United States District Court for the Northern District of Georgia. He graduated from Vanderbilt University and Vanderbilt University Law School. Prior to attending law school, Mr. Cochran was an Army Ranger and Special Forces officer for nine years.
If confirmed, Russell M. Coleman of Kentucky will serve as the United States Attorney for the Western District of Kentucky. Mr. Coleman is currently a member of the law firm of Frost Brown Todd, LLC in Louisville, where he focuses on internal investigations, white-collar criminal matters, and government relations. In addition, he presently serves as an Assistant Commonwealth's Attorney for Kentucky's 12th Judicial Circuit. From 2010 to 2015, Mr. Coleman served as legal counsel to United States Senator Mitch McConnell. From 2004 to 2010, he served as a special agent with the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Mr. Coleman graduated from the University of Kentucky and the University of Kentucky College of Law.
If confirmed, Bart M. Davis of Idaho will serve as the United States Attorney for the District of Idaho. Mr. Davis is currently in private practice in Idaho Falls, Idaho, where he focuses on commercial, regulatory, and transactional work. Mr. Davis has served in the Idaho State Senate for the past 19 years, including as Majority Leader for 15 years. He is currently a commissioner to the Uniform Law Commission and a past chairman of The Council of State Governments. He graduated from Brigham Young University and from the University of Idaho College of Law.
If confirmed, Halsey B. Frank of Maine will serve as the United States Attorney for the District of Maine. Mr. Frank is currently an Assistant United States Attorney in the District of Maine, where he prosecutes federal crimes and defends the United States in civil actions. Mr. Frank has worked at the Maine U.S. Attorney's Office since September 1999. He previously served as an Assistant United States Attorney in the District of Columbia from 1990 to 1999. From 1987 to 1990, he served as a trial attorney in the Torts Branch of the Civil Division in the Department of Justice.. Mr. Frank graduated from Wesleyan University and Boston University School of Law.
If confirmed, J. Cody Hiland of Arkansas will serve as United States Attorney for the Eastern District of Arkansas. Mr. Hiland currently serves as the elected Prosecuting Attorney for the 20th Judicial District of Arkansas, comprising Faulkner, Van Buren, and Searcy counties. Prior to his election, Mr. Hiland was a partner at Hiland, Thomas & Cox, PLLC. He previously served as staff attorney and rural and community liaison for the Arkansas Public Service Commission, program director for the Arkansas Transitional Employment Board, and legislative liaison and aide to Governor Mike Huckabee. Mr. Hiland graduated from the University of Central Arkansas and the William H. Bowen School of Law in Little Rock, Arkansas.
If confirmed, D. Michael Hurst, Jr. of Mississippi will serve as the United States Attorney for the Southern District of Mississippi. Mr. Hurst is currently the director of the Mississippi Justice Institute and general counsel for the Mississippi Center for Public Policy. From 2006 to 2015Mr. Hurst served as an Assistant United States Attorney in the Southern District of Mississippi, where he prosecuted public corruption, white collar, and immigration cases, among others. He previously served as legislative director and counsel to Congressman Chip Pickering, as well as counsel to the Constitution Subcommittee of the U.S. House of Representatives Judiciary Committee. He graduated from Millsaps College and from the George Washington University Law School.
If confirmed, William C. Lamar of Mississippi will serve as the United States Attorney for the Northern District of Mississippi. Mr. Lamar has been an Assistant United States Attorney in the Northern District of Mississippi since 1991. He has served as chief of the Criminal Division since April 2014, and was the senior litigation counsel and appellate chief from 2008 to 2014. Mr. Lamar has received several awards for his prosecution work, including the Executive Office for United States Attorneys Director's Award in 2004. From 1990 to 1991, Mr. Lamar clerked for the Honorable Neal B. Biggers, Jr. of the United States District Court for the Northern District of Mississippi. Mr. Lamar graduated from Millsaps College and the University of Mississippi School of Law.
If confirmed, R. Trent Shores of Oklahoma will serve as the United States Attorney for the Northern District of Oklahoma. Mr. Shores is currently an Assistant United States Attorney in the Northern District of Oklahoma, where he prosecutes human trafficking and child exploitation, drug-trafficking organizations, public corruption, and white-collar crime. He also serves as the national security cyber specialist for the Northern District. Mr. Shores previously served as First Assistant Attorney General for the State of Oklahoma and deputy director for the Department of Justice's Office of Tribal Justice, where he developed initiatives to promote public safety in Indian Country. Mr. Shores graduated from Vanderbilt University and the University of Oklahoma College of Law.
  