
    Pool Reports by Nikki Schwab, Daily Mail 



Sent:
Reports:




June 17, 202212:02

Travel Pool Report No. 1 - Rehoboth arrival
Hello! I will be your pooler for this weekend's trip to Rehoboth Beach, Delaware.
Marine One touched down at 11:54 a.m.
The president and Dr. Biden walked off Marine One 11:57 a.m. Willow was taken off the helo at 11:58 a.m.
The motorcade was rolling to the beach house at 11:59 a.m.
The pool was on a gravel path and sand dune, so not in the proximity to shout questions.
More TK



June 17, 202212:33

Travel Pool Report No. 2 - lunch lid until 3 p.m.
The White House has called a lunch lid until 3 p.m.
We'll be holding in downtown Rehoboth.



June 17, 202214:48

Travel Pool Report No. 3 - lid
The White House called a lid at 2:45 p.m.
Have a wonderful rest of your Friday!




 
Pool Report below by Josh Wingrove, Bloomberg 



Sent:
Reports:




June 17, 202212:43

In-Town Pool Report #1 - tagging in
Good afternoon all,
Hello from the White House, which has asked us to send a belated pool report; there was apparently a mixup on the original outlet that was due to pool today. On behalf of the wires, we hope we'll suffice as a fallback...!
President Biden spoke this morning at the virtual Major Economies Forum on Energy and Climate. He began speaking at 8:34 am, following remarks from John Kerry, and the press portion concluded at 8:42 am. A link to the video can be found here:  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yEZL12tRKik
Biden left the White House residence at 10:59 am, accompanied by the First Lady. Staff gathered along a ropeline to the east, and she greeted them while Biden came over to the press ropeline briefly. Audio was spotty as he moved down the line, so please check against the feed or transcript once available. But highlights include:

He was asked about the Saudi trip, and whether he'll raise Khashoggi. The pool-feed audio was faint, but his response included. "I'm not going to meet with MBS; I'm going to an international meeting," and he likened it to this morning's forum. (Pool interpreted the remark as him saying he wasn't traveling for the sole purpose of meeting the Crown Prince, as opposed to him announcing he wouldn't see the Crown Prince while there.)


He was asked about Americans missing in Ukraine, and responded: "I have been briefed, we don't know where they are, but I want to reiterate: Americans should not be going to Ukraine now. Say it again: Americans should not be going to Ukraine."


He was asked about oil prices, and said that the equivalent to the current price of crude oil has correlated with a lower gasoline price at previous points in history. "If you just take what a barrel of oil costs, then actually it should not be this high. They're making exorbitant profits." Another remark: "I've contacted them, with -- my team has, to ask what their plans are and to give any suggestions they have. They have over 9000 leases, 9000. They can drill."


He was asked if he'll visit India, and replied: "I've been to India twice and I'll be back to India. My relationship is very good."

Marine One took off for Rehoboth at 11:07 am. Aides accompanying the President and First Lady include Steve Ricchetti, Assistant to the President & Counselor to the President, and Anthony Bernal, Assistant to the President & Advisor to the First Lady, per the White House. A cat carrier was also seen being loaded on the helicopter.
Marine One landed in Rehoboth at 11:54 am. Handing it off again to the out-of-town pool.
Best,
Josh




  