
    Going back to his roots, Sanders announces a slate of endorsements from elected officials in New York
WASHINGTON - U.S. Sen. Bernie Sanders' campaign on Wednesday announced a slate of endorsements from elected officials in the Empire State. The endorsements, announced more than 10 months before the state's primary, demonstrates the growing support for Sanders' presidential run.
Bernie 2020 Campaign Manager, Faiz Shakir, said:
"Our campaign is proud to announce endorsements from extraordinary political leaders in the very state that Senator Sanders grew up as the proud son of immigrants. With the support of these leaders and the diverse working class people of New York there is no doubt that we will create a government that represents all of us, not just the few."
The slate of endorsements includes:
City Councilman Rafael Espinal:
"As a fellow born and raised Brooklynite, there's nothing that would make me prouder than to get Bernie Sanders elected. He has lived the struggles of working New Yorkers and would bring that first hand experience to the White House as our next president. Bernie has had a consistent platform of tackling the issues Brooklyn residents of all generations face. From fighting student debt, to pushing for universal healthcare, to creating an aggressive plan to fight the climate crisis, there's no one I trust more to deliver on a forward thinking vision for our country."
State Senator Julia Salazar:
"I am thrilled to endorse Senator Bernie Sanders for President. Throughout his entire political career, Bernie Sanders has been a relentless advocate for Americans across barriers of race and class, for every American who's been excluded from the political agenda of the elite. Bernie Sanders is the strongest leader in our fight for universal healthcare, for quality jobs and workers' rights, for tackling student debt and ensuring that every person is able to attend college regardless of their income, and much more. Bernie is the presidential candidate who communities of color like my own can rely on to advocate for all of us."
State Senator James Sanders:
"As a Queens' native, and after serving in public office for over 30 years, I know what my constituents are looking for in their elected officials. Bernie Sanders speaks to the needs of the working people of Queens. As a proud African American, I applaud how BERNIE speaks to - and for - all working class and middle class Americans. I supported him in 2016 because he consistently stood up to address the issues disproportionately affecting my community. I'm supporting Sen. Sanders again in 2020 because the same is still true of him today."
State Rep. Phil Steck:
"We need to revive the spirit of the New Deal, that is a government that works for all Americans, not a government that is predominantly under the influence of the top 1%. There is only one Democratic candidate that has demonstrated unwavering, constant commitment to a government of the people, by the people, and for the people. That is Bernie Sanders. And that is why I am proud to endorse his candidacy for President of the United States."
State Rep. Ron Kim:
"I am proud to be one of the earliest lawmakers from New York to endorse Senator Bernie Sanders for President because I believe he is uniquely positioned to execute and deliver on countless progressive policies, such as Medicare for All and Tuition-Free Public Colleges and Universities. I am confident that he will focus on protecting our local economies by breaking up the super-monopolies that are destroying small businesses and local economies. Bernie will lead the way in undoing the decades of poorly designed policies that subsidized the growth of mega-corporations and the super wealthy, all while the wages, working conditions, and the rights of everyday American stagnated or deteriorated. I urge all Americans to vote for Bernie in 2020."
  