
    Pool Reports by Emily Goodin, Daily Mail 



Sent:
Reports:




June 29, 202112:27 EDT

FLOTUS pool report #1 - departure for Texas
Good afternoon from the FLOTUS/SGOTUS press pool.
First Lady Jill Biden and Second Gentleman Doug Emhoff will be on a two-day tour of Texas and Arizona to encourage more people to get their COVID vaccine.
This is their first joint trip - just the two of them - since inauguration. Dr. Biden and Emhoff did two trips and four stops together during the presidential campaign.
FLOTUS' first stop will be Dallas where she will be joined by former Dallas Cowboy star Emmitt Smith.
Next she's on to Houston where SGOTUS will join her for a tour of a vaccine clinic at Minute Maid Park, home of the Houston Astros.
Motorcade departed the White House at 11:51 am. Pool did not lay eyes on FLOTUS. Motorcade arrived at JBA at 12:12 pm after an uneventful ride with lights and sirens the whole way, at times pushing traffic to the side of the road so motorcade could get through.
Dr. Biden, in a blue and white dress, boarded as pool was getting out of vans.
We are flying in a different plane than the traditional blue and white signature Air Force aircraft. This plane is all white with a tail number of 20201.
We are wheels up shortly for the nearly three hour flight to Dallas Love Field.
Full schedule for today is below. FYI we will over night in Phoenix to be on the ground for events tomorrow there.
On Tuesday, June 29, First Lady Jill Biden will travel to the Dallas-Fort Worth Metroplex in Texas.
At 2:15 PM CT, the First Lady will arrive at Dallas Love Field Airport. This arrival is open press and registration is closed.
At 4:15 PM CT, the First Lady will tour a vaccination site at Emmett J. Conrad High School in Dallas, Texas. The First Lady will be joined by former Dallas Cowboy and Football Hall of Famer Emmitt Smith. This tour is open press with limited capacity, and registration is closed.
On Tuesday, June 29, First Lady Jill Biden and Second Gentleman Douglas Emhoff will travel to Houston, Texas.
At 6:15 PM CT, the First Lady and Second Gentleman will arrive at William P. Hobby Airport in Houston, TX. This arrival is open press and registration is closed.
At 6:45 PM CT, the First Lady and Second Gentleman will join the Houston Astros for a vaccination event at Minute Maid Park. This event is open press with limited capacity, and registration is closed.
The First Lady and Second Gentleman will visit COVID-19 vaccination sites in Texas and Arizona and encourage everyone in these communities to get vaccinated. These trips are part of the Administration's nation-wide tour to reach millions of Americans who still need protection against the virus, highlight the ease of getting vaccinated, and mobilize grassroots vaccine education and outreach efforts.



June 29, 202114:17 CDT

FLOTUS pool report #2 - Dallas arrival
Executive One Foxtrot was wheels down at Dallas Love Field at 2 pm local time.
Flight was uneventful. Press Secretary Michael LaRosa stopped back in the press area to say hi.
FLOTUS was greeted upon arrival by Mayor Eric Johnson, Rep. Eddie Bernice Johnson, and Judge Clay Jenkins. She and Rep. Johnson hugged.
We are en route to Emmett J Conrad High where FLOTUS will visit a vaccination clinic with Emmitt Smith.
At 2:10 pm we are rolling.
It is 88 degrees and sunny.



June 29, 202114:50 CDT

FLOTUS pool report #3 - clinic arrival/FLOTUS book club meeting 
FLOTUS arrived at Emmett J Conrad High at 2:27 pm after an uneventful motorcade.
Pool did not see FLOTUS exit the motorcade.
FLOTUS is holding a zoom meeting with her Women's Retention Book Club.
Pool is in a separate hold while she spends the next hour doing that.
After the book club meeting, FLOTUS will tour the clinic and make remarks.



June 29, 202116:37 CDT

FLOTUS pool report #4 - clinic visit with Emmitt Smith "We're going to get a touch down," FLOTUS said 
Dr. Biden entered the clinic at 4:17 pm. "Hi everybody," she said. Emmitt Smith was with her, wearing a purple plaid blazer and a bluish purple kerchief.
The clinic is in the Emmett J Conrad high school gym. The registration area is by the door with six tables set up across the gym for people to get their shot. There is also a small observation area. Several big screen TVs are around the room reading: "text your zip code to 438829 to find a covid-19 vaccine near you" and "vaccines.gov"
There were about a dozen people either getting a shot or in the observation area during her visit.
FLOTUS went to the registration table first. "How are we doing? Are the numbers up?" she asked. "Getting there," the person at the table responded.
"Just go home and call five friends," FLOTUS told people getting their shot.
She then met Chase Walters, a teenager getting his shot.
"Are you a football player," she asked him. "Yes ma'am," he said."Do you know this guy here?" FLOTUS said, gesturing to Emmitt Smith. "Yes ma'am," he said."You should come here," Biden said, bringing Smith by Walters. She stood next to Smith and made small talk with Walters about his summer as the nurse prepared his dose of the Pfizer vaccine."Don't look," FLOTUS told Walters as he prepared to get the shot. "Look at me," Smith said.
People in the room applauded when Walters got the shot.
"If you take care of yourself this way you take care of others," Smith told him.
Then FLOTUS and Smith went to the observation area.
"In the sports sense we're in the fourth quarter and the game is not finished," Smith told the group in that area.
"We're going to get a touch down," FLOTUS said.
"Spread the word," she said. FLOTUS exited clinic at 4:28 pm.
We are holding in another room for her remarks.
Here is background on the clinic visit and Dallas stop from the East Wing:
The First Lady will tour a pop-up COVID-19 vaccination clinic hosted at Emmett J. Conrad High School in Dallas, Texas, and encourage Texans to get vaccinated. Upon arrival at Dallas Love Field, she will be greeted by Mayor Eric Johnson (D, Dallas), Rep. Eddie Bernice Johnson (D, TX-30), and Judge Clay Jenkins (D, Dallas County). The vaccination clinic will be open to students 12 years and older as well as staff, parents, and the broader Dallas community. The Dallas Independent School District is hosting community vaccine clinics at a different high school every day this week. Parkland Health will administer vaccines at the clinic, and partners across Dallas County – including Dallas Mayor Eric Johnson and Dallas County Judge Clay Jenkins – have been championing vaccine efforts across the county. As an incentive, people who get vaccinated at the clinic will receive tickets to the Six Flags Over Texas theme park. Individuals will also be eligible to participate in the Mayor's Vaccine Raffle, which includes prizes such as airline tickets, concert tickets, and gift cards to restaurants and coffee shops.
FLOTUS will take a three-stop tour of the clinic:•Registration area•Vaccination area•Observation area
Tour participants:•Mr. Emmitt Smith, NFL Hall of Famer and former Dallas Cowboys star•Ms. Vivian Johnson, Senior Vice President of Clinical Services, Parkland Health and Hospital System•Ms. Samia Zia, Director, Strategy Integration and Systems Initiatives, Parkland Hospital
FLOTUS will tour the clinic with Mr. Emmitt Smith. After that, Smith and FLOTUS will give remarks at a mobilization event. FLOTUS will be introduced by Conrad High School sophomore Jaafar Al Obaidi.
MORE BACKGROUND
This will be the second clinic hosted at Conrad. The clinic will be open to students, staff, and members of the community. The Pfizer vaccine will be offered and walk-ups are welcome. Individuals receiving their first dose will have the opportunity to receive their second dose at the school three weeks later (the week of July 19).
Individuals getting their shots are eligible to participate in the Mayor's Vaccine Raffle, an initiative designed to promote vaccines among residents throughout the summer. The Mayor's Office has opened the raffle to City of Dallas residents 12 years of age or older who have received the first dose of two or the single shot of a single-dose vaccine between the dates of June 1, 2021 and July 23, 2021. Available prizes include airline tickets from American Airlines and Southwest Airlines, tickets to concerts and sports events, passes to the Dallas Arboretum, and gift cards to restaurants and coffee shops. Winners will be announced by July 30, 2021. In addition, individuals getting their vaccines at Conrad High School on Tuesday will receive passes to Six Flags Over Texas. This is part of a new Six Flags initiative, which will provide free passes to up to 20,000 people who get vaccinated at local vaccination clinics, starting on Tuesday with the clinic at Conrad High School and at Dallas County community college vaccination clinic locations.



June 29, 202117:03 CDT

FLOTUS pool report #5 - remarks and return to airport
After speaking, FLOTUS got her photo taken with the high school football team.
Emmitt Smith spoke before FLOTUS. He repeated what he said about being in the fourth quarter of pandemic, noted he's gotten his vaccine and encouraged others to get theirs.
FLOTUS began her speech by mentioning the Surf Side condo building in Miami.
"The president and I are grieving along with community of Surf Side," she said, noting she and POTUS were going there Thursday to meet with families. "So if you can find it in your hearts today to say a prayer for those families, thank you."
She thanked Emmitt Smith for joining her.
"I know the applause was for Emmitt and not for me when we walked in here," she said, telling him: "You are a true American treasure."
Highlights from her remarks. She spoke for a total of about 10 minutes.
"We're not done yet. Right now only 40% of Texans are fully vaccinated and like Emmitt said it's not enough. And your lives matter to me and your president."
"Getting vaccinated is safe, it's effective, it's free."
"Most places don't require appointments. All you have to do is just walk up, get in line."
"They don't hurt. … I barely felt mine and I hate needles."
"We all carry each other through the darkest times. That is what we do as Americans."
"I ask you to do your part. Choose to get the COVID vaccine."
"So god bless you Dallas and go get vaccinated."
We are back in the motorcade and rolling to the airport at 4:52 pm local time.
In case you need, C-SPAN has video of the clinic tour: https://www.c-span.org/video/?513087-1/lady-jill-biden-tours-covid-19-va...
And here is video of her remarks: https://www.c-span.org/video/?513087-101/lady-jill-biden-remarks-vaccina...



June 29, 202117:25 CDT

FLOTUS pool report #6 - leaving Dallas and off to Houston 
Motorcade arrived at Dallas Love Field at 5:09 pm after uneventful ride.
FLOTUS took photos with local police when we got to airport.
Note: She did an interview NBC Dallas before we left the high school.
Executive One Foxtrot is wheels up shortly for Houston where Second Gentleman Doug Emhoff will join FLOTUS to visit a vaccine clinic at Minute Maid Park, home of the Houston Astros.



June 29, 202117:42 CDT

FLOTUS pool report #7 - rain delay and FLOTUS visit to press cabin 
Executive One Foxtrot sat on the tarmac at Love Field for about 20 minutes due to a rain delay. There is a storm overhead, per the overhead announcement. It is raining out.
FLOTUS came back to the press area for a brief visit to thank the press for waiting at the Dallas event while she had her book club meeting. She said the book club is part of her work at NOVA and she wanted to keep connections with her group over the summer.
"It was some work for NOVA. It was my book club. I felt bad," she said.
"It's part of the thing I do with the women's retention program. I kinda of want to be able to keep the connections over the summer," she said, adding "thank you."
At 5:31 pm we are rolling toward take off. It's a 45 minute fight to Houston.



June 29, 202118:43 CDT

FLOTUS pool report #8 - arrival in Houston and SGOTUS has joined up 
Executive One Foxtrot landed at William P. Hobby Airport in Houston at 6:18 pm local time.
SGOTUS was waiting at the bottom of the plane's stairs for FLOTUS upon arrival. Doug Emhoff gave Dr. Biden a hug and a kiss on the cheek.
The two were then greeted by Houston Mayor Sylvester Turner, Rep. Sheila Jackson Lee (D, TX-18), Rep. Sylvia Garcia (D, TX-29), Judge Lina Hidalgo, and Judge KP George. FLOTUS hugged Jackson Lee.
Dr. Biden changed into black pants, black t-shirt, a navy blue zip up and flats for the visit to the ball park.
At 6:35 pm we are rolling for Minute Maid Park. It's about a 20 minute ride.



June 29, 202119:52 CDT

FLOTUS/SGOTUS pool report #9 - Minute Maid stadium and the two take questions 
FLOTUS and SGOTUS arrived at Minute Maid Park at 6:58 pm.
They came over to the press toward the end of the visit for remarks and took a few questions.
Jill Biden: "Thank you all for being here because you're the ones who are going to get the message out to the public. It's safe, it's effective, it's free so please if you're listening. This is Doug Emhoff, and I'm Jill Biden and I encourage everybody here in Texas to go and get the vaccines, safe, free."
Doug Emhoff: "Everyone wants to come to the baseball games without mass, do it. Get your vaccine but this way you can go out and public safe. You can do without getting anyone else sick, save yourself, save others it's the right thing to do, and America. Please listen to our First Lady."
Asked if it's safe to have July 4 celebrations with the Delta variant on the rise, FLOTUS: "Well yeah, we're saying yes. If you're outside, you know, it's, it's, I mean we're going to be celebrating at the White House. We're really looking forward to it and it's our first great big event and so it's it's safe, so people need to get vaccinated."
FLOTUS asked why they came to Texas: "Because the numbers are low here. I think 40% of all Texans are vaccinated, so that's, you know, the President and the Vice President, Doug and I care about the American people about their health. So that's why I'm here."
Upon arrival, the two entered a meeting center adjacent to the ball park to cheers. It is called Union Station and is an old train station. It's used for public events.
The center is pretty packed with people - about 30 in line waiting to register for their shot. And there were about a dozen people in the observation area.
FLOTUS and SGOTUS greeted people in line waiting to register and then made the rounds of the clinic - visiting the registration table and then one of the areas where shots were being given.
They watched a 15 year old boy get his shot.
It was hard to hear as pool was a few feet away and the hall was crowded.
FLOTUS and SGOTUS then went into another area of the ball park out of the pool's line of sight.
Then the two came back out to visit people waiting in the observation area.
FLOTUS talked to a teenage boy who showed off the swag he got for being vaccinated. She told reporters he got a World Series ring. Emhoff injected "they beat my team."
Background on the visit from the East Wing:
In Houston, Texas, the First Lady and Second Gentleman Douglas Emhoff will visit a COVID-19 vaccination clinic hosted by the Houston Astros Major League Baseball team, and encourage Texans to get vaccinated.
Upon arrival at Houston's William P. Hobby Airport the First Lady and Second Gentleman will greet with Mayor Sylvester Turner (D, Houston), Rep. Sheila Jackson Lee (D, TX-18), Rep. Sylvia Garcia (D, TX-29), Judge Lina Hidalgo (D, Harris County), and Judge KP George (D, Fort Bend County).
The Houston Astros, along with its health partner Houston Methodist, are hosting a vaccination event at their home ballpark, Minute Maid Park. The Astros are hosting this clinic as part of the "MLB Vaccinate at the Plate" program, through which incentives are offered to fans who get a vaccine. Tuesday's vaccination clinic will be the fourth clinic hosted at Minute Maid Park by the Houston Astros.
The First Lady and the Second Gentleman will take a three-stop tour of the clinic:• Registration area• Vaccination area• Observation area
Pfizer vaccines will be available. Anyone who is 12 years of age or older will be eligible. The clinic accepts walk-ins, there is no cost, and insurance is not required.
Through the Astros' incentive program, everyone who gets vaccinated at this clinic will receive two tickets to an Astros game of their choosing:• vs. Baltimore Orioles• vs. Oakland Athletics• vs. Oakland Athletics• vs. Oakland Athletes
Each person will also receive a 2017 World Series Champs replica ring.



June 29, 202119:56 CDT

FLOTUS/SGOTUS pool report #10 - watching Astros vs Oriels game and drinking beer 
FLOTUS and SGOTUS came out to watch some of the Astros game. They are seated on the second level of the stadium at the end of the first base line.
They are seated with military members and front line workers.
The two are drinking Crawford Bock beer. FLOTUS and SGOTUS clinked their plastic cups.
They came and shook hands with fans in the seating area before taking their seats. It is the top of the second.



June 29, 202120:41 CDT

FLOTUS/SGOTUS pool report #11 - leaving ball park 
FLOTUS and SGOTUS came out to watch some of the Astros game. They are seated on the second level of the stadium at the end of the first base line.
They are seated with military members and front line workers.
The two are drinking Crawford Bock beer. FLOTUS and SGOTUS clinked their plastic cups.
They came and shook hands with fans in the seating area before taking their seats. It is the top of the second.



June 29, 202121:06 CDT

FLOTUS/SGOTUS pool report #12 - leaving Houston and off to Phoenix 
FLOTUS and SGOTUS arrived at the airport in Houston at 8:51 pm local time.
They were taking photos with local police as pool boarded the plane.
We are headed to Phoenix where we will remain overnight ahead of an event there tomorrow. Flight time is about two and half hours.
Thanks to AP's Darlene Superville and NBC's Lauren Egan for all their help.
Here is video of FLOTUS and SGOTUS at the vaccine clinic: https://www.c-span.org/video/?513091-1/lady-gentleman-vaccination-event-...
Here is video of them at the baseball game: https://www.c-span.org/video/?513091-101/lady-gentleman-attend-houston-a...
Executive One Foxtrot is wheels up shortly.



June 29, 202121:59 MST

FLOTUS/SGOTUS pool report #13 - Phoenix arrival 
Executive One Foxtrot was wheels down at Phoenix Sky Harbor Airport at 9:29 pm local time.
Flight was uneventful with no visitors to the press cabin.
FLOTUS and SGOTUS deplaned to the motorcade and at 9:39 pm we were rolling to the hotel.
Here is the list of staff traveling with FLOTUS and SGOTUS today:
FLOTUS Traveling Staff:Anthony Bernal Senior AdvisorMala Adiga Director of Policy & ProjectsMichael LaRosa Press SecretaryJordan Montoya Trip Director & Director of AdvanceErin Scott PhotographerMary Wall COVID-19 Senior Policy Advisor
SGOTUS Traveling Staff:Julie Mason Chief of StaffKatie Peters Communications DirectorEdgar Estrada Personal Aide
Motorcade arrived at hotel at 9:50 pm.
That's a wrap for Tuesday's portion of the trip. See you tomorrow.




  