
    Yesterday, the Biden Administration through the Federal Railroad Administration (FRA) announced over $368 million in Consolidated Rail Infrastructure and Safety Improvements (CRISI) grant program funds to 46 projects in 32 states and the District of Columbia. These investments will play a crucial role in modernizing our country’s rail infrastructure and strengthening supply chains, helping to reduce congestion and get people and goods where they need to go quickly and more affordably. The program will create good-paying jobs and benefit urban and rural communities across the country.
President Biden’s Bipartisan Infrastructure Law has nearly tripled funding for this critical rail infrastructure program - to $1 billion a year for the next five years. Strengthening supply chains and increasing the productive capacity of the economy are key tenets of President Biden’s plans to get goods from ships to shelves more quickly and lower costs for American families.
Here's what they’re reading in the states:
Detroit News: Buttigieg in Michigan to announce $368M in rail infrastructure, safety grantsTransportation Secretary Pete Buttigieg announced Thursday in Michigan $368 million in rail infrastructure and safety grants to 46 projects in 32 states, including two in Michigan … Buttigieg said two of the Michigan projects will build new miles of track and allow for safety upgrades to avoid potential derailments and other repairs, "giving shippers in rural Michigan reliable freight service to get their goods to market."… Last year's bipartisan infrastructure package nearly tripled funding for the program to $1 billion a year for the next five years, he said.
WRAL (ABC Raleigh, NC): $58 million grant to pay for rail line from Raleigh to Richmond, VirginiaState and federal transportation leaders announced Thursday the influx of a $58 million grant that would create a direct passenger rail line from Raleigh to Richmond, Virginia … "It’s about creating a fast train that makes it go faster, safer, smarter and gets people from where they are to where they want to be," said White House Infrastructure Coordinator Mitch Landrieu. "We’ve been wanting this for a long, long time. This is a fantastic down payment."
WBNS (CBS Columbus, OH): Biden administration announces $13M initiative to improve Ohio rail infrastructure, strengthen supply chainThe Biden administration and Federal Railroad Administration announced Thursday morning that $13 million would be put toward rail infrastructure funding in Ohio. The Ohio Rail Development Commission received up to $6.9 million for the Wheeling and Lake Erie Spencer Connection Project, and the City of Cincinnati received up to $6 million to make safety improvements to four crossings on the CSX and Central Railroad of Indiana. President Joe Biden’s Bipartisan Infrastructure Law has nearly tripled funding for the rail infrastructure program to $1 billion a year for the next five years.
WKRG (CBS Mobile, AL): Biden Administration announces $5 million to improve railroads in AlabamaEarly Thursday morning, the Federal Railroad Administration (FRA) announced nearly $5 million in funds to help improve the rail infrastructure in Alabama.
The announcement comes as part of President Biden’s Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, which has nearly tripled funding for the critical rail infrastructure program to $1 billion per year over the next five years. The goal, says the administration, is to get goods from ships to shelves more quickly and lower costs for American families.
The Center Square (Iowa): Iowa multimodal freight system projects can apply for $1.7M in federal fundingFreight projects that address changing demands on Iowa’s multimodal freight system may be eligible for $1.7 million in federal funding, the Iowa Department of Transportation announced June 1. Multimodal freight projects are eligible for the funding through the National Highway Freight Program through the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, also known as the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act, that was signed in 2021, an Iowa DOT grant funding note said.
Cedar Rapids Gazette: Eastern Iowa company receives $7.2 million grant to modernize rail line serving Cedar RapidsAn Eastern Iowa railroad company has been awarded a $7.2 million federal grant to upgrade its line that serves industries in the Cedar Rapids area. The grant to Iowa Northern Railway Company is one of 46 projects in 32 states and the District of Columbia being announced today by U.S. Department of Transportation Secretary Pete Buttigieg … The improvements will help fight inflation and control costs for shippers and consumers as well as create jobs, he added.
KIRO (CBS Seattle, WA): Washington to receive up to $13.8M for rail improvementsThe state of Washington will receive up to $13.8 million to make rail upgrades and safety improvements. The funding is part of the Consolidated Rail Infrastructure and Safety Improvements grant program. The investment also aims to help goods move more reliably though the supply chain to get people the things they need quicker at a lower cost.
WKRG (CBS Mobile, AL): Biden Administration announces $5 million to improve railroads in AlabamaEarly Thursday morning, the Federal Railroad Administration (FRA) announced nearly $5 million in funds to help improve the rail infrastructure in Alabama. The announcement comes as part of President Biden’s Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, which has nearly tripled funding for the critical rail infrastructure program to $1 billion per year over the next five years. The goal, says the administration, is to get goods from ships to shelves more quickly and lower costs for American families.
WNKY (NBC/CBS Bowling Green, KY): Biden administration announces $7.4M to improve Kentucky rail infrastructure, supply chain
WWLP (NBC Springfield, MA): Massachusetts $1.8M rail infrastructure award applies to Springfield areaRail infrastructure for Massachusetts is to economically grow with the help of up to $1.75 million, especially in the Springfield area. The Federal Railroad Administration (FRA) elaborated that the funding will be part of the Consolidated Rail Infrastructure and Safety Improvements (CRISI) grant program … The rail infrastructure is to become modernized nationwide which will help reduce congestion and get people and goods transported quicker. An increased supply chain resilience, fluidity, supported short line railroads, technology, and safety advancement will create high-quality paying jobs and economic growth.
  