
    
  Barrett to serve as South Carolina & National Energy Policy Chairman

Columbia, SC - Former Senator Rick Santorum (R-PA) announced members of his South Carolina and National Leadership Team this morning.
Former Congressman Gresham Barrett (R-SC), from Westminster, SC, will serve as South Carolina Chairman and National Energy Policy Chairman for the Rick Santorum for President campaign. Barrett served as the congressman for the 3rd Congressional district of South Carolina for 8 years, where he was consistently rated one of the House's most conservative members. Barrett also served as a Member of the South Carolina House of Representatives for 6 years prior to his successful election to the U.S. House of Representatives. In 2010, Barrett ran unsuccessfully for the Republican nomination for Governor, losing in the runoff to now Governor Nikki Haley. Barrett and his wife Natalie are the proud parents of three children. Barrett is a graduate of The Citadel in Charleston, SC.
"Since he was first elected to Congress, Gresham has emerged as not just a conservative leader in South Carolina, but a national conservative leader," said Senator Santorum. "I am humbled by his support and his work on behalf of our campaign. I am honored to not just receive his endorsement, but to call him a friend as we stand side-by-side to fight for the America we both cherish."
"It is without hesitation that I am endorsing my friend Rick Santorum for President," said Congressman Barrett. "Rick has not just checked the boxes on conservative positions, but led the fight on the tough issues facing our country. He has shown his commitment to the values South Carolinians care most about, and I am anxious to help Rick become the 45th President of the United States."
In addition to the announcement of Congressman Barrett as Senator Santorum's South Carolina Chairman, Senator Santorum was proud to announce the following senior members of his campaign's leadership team:
Bob Castellani will serve as South Carolina Finance Chairman and a member of the Rick Santorum for President National Finance Team. Castellani is the former Founder and CEO of North American Rescue, Inc. Castellani has strong financial ties to the South Carolina Republican Party and to Republican candidates across the nation, and he most recently served as Co-Chairman of the SCGOP / Fox News Presidential debate in Greenville. Under Castellani's leadership, the debate committee raised close to $300,000 to support the debate and the South Carolina Republican Party. Castellani continues to serve South Carolina and the nation both through his business and his philanthropic efforts, and he calls the Upstate of South Carolina home, where he resides with his wife Lisa and their two children.
Donna Martin, from Travelers Rest, SC, will serve as South Carolina Finance Consultant to the Rick Santorum for President campaign. Martin most recently served as the Director of Development for the South Carolina Republican Party under Chairman Karen Floyd. During her tenure, the South Carolina Republican Party raised over $2.1 million for the 2010 election cycle.
Alexia Newman will serve as the South Carolina Social & Family Policy Coalitions Chairman for the Rick Santorum for President campaign. Newman has served as Director of Carolina Pregnancy Center (CPC) for the past 21 years. She also serves on the Board for South Carolina Citizens for Life and is on the Executive Committee for the South Carolina Association for Pregnancy Care Centers. Newman is also a leader in South Carolina Republican politics, serving as First Vice Chairman of the Party under Chairman Katon Dawson, as well as leadership positions in the Spartanburg and Abbeville County Republican Party. Newman resides in Spartanburg County and she is actively involved in her church, Mt. Calvary Presbyterian Church.
James D'Alessio, of Eglin, SC, will serve as the South Carolina Business Coalitions Chairman of the Rick Santorum for President campaign. D'Alessio is the former Chairman of the Kershaw County Republican Party. He was recently elected to serve as the President of the South Carolina Alliance of Health Plans, and also serves on the Health Insurance Council and the Employee Benefits Committee of the United States Chamber of Commerce. James and his wife Robin D'Alessio are the proud parents of one daughter.
  