
    On the heels of Senator Kamala Harris' debate performance, two Iowa activists are announcing their endorsement of Harris in her run for president. Minister Vergarie Sanford of Council Bluffs and Attorney Tom Fisher of Des Moines both announced their support following the first Democratic debate.
Vergarie Sanford is a minister at Mount Zion Refuge Center Church in Council Bluffs, and serves the community on several non-profit organization boards. She is the Pottawattamie County Democrats Affirmative Action committee chair and serves as a mentor for teen girls. She has worked at area schools on bullying prevention programs. Sanford is pursuing a doctorate degree in educational leadership from Oral Roberts University.
Tom is a prominent Des Moines Democratic Activist and attorney. He has been an activist in every presidential caucus since 1980, and chaired several caucuses at the precinct level.
"Senator Harris is a wonderful example of strength, intelligence, and grace for all women. As a breast cancer survivor, healthcare is important to me. I believe Senator Harris will work to make affordable healthcare possible for all Americans," Minister Sanford said.
"In this debate, Senator Harris once again showed that she is a rockstar. She can handle the tough questions and is a passionate fighter for American values and Democratic issues. She also treated her fellow Democrats with respect and her signature smile and upbeat attitude lightened the entire forum. She is a joyful warrior," activist Fisher said.
Harris will return to Iowa on Wednesday, July 3 for a three-day swing to mark the 4th of July holiday. Last night on the debate stage, Harris outlined her plans to deliver real, tangible solutions for the challenges American families face. Her entire agenda - a "3AM Agenda" as she called it - is about finding solutions for the issues that wake people up at night and taking action to make their lives better. Harris will use her 4th of July holiday visit to explain her agenda's impact on Iowans.
  