
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Romney Press Shop (857) 288-6390
Boston, MA – Today, Governor Mitt Romney announced that former Lieutenant Governor Dick Posthumus will serve as Michigan's Honorary State Chairman of the Romney for President campaign. As Honorary Chair, Lt. Governor Posthumus will help lead statewide efforts to build Governor Romney's Michigan campaign.
Announcing the support of Lt. Governor Posthumus, Governor Romney said, "Dick Posthumus has served the State of Michigan for over twenty years with steadfast and principled leadership. He has fought for some of our most important conservative values - lower taxes, better schools and stronger families. His counsel will be very important to me, and I am gratified that he will be helping to lead our efforts in this critical primary state."
Lt. Governor Posthumus will join a Romney for President Michigan team that includes Co-Chairs U.S. Representatives Dave Camp, Pete Hoekstra and Joe Knollenberg, and Michigan House Republican Leader Craig DeRoche.
With today's announcement, Lt. Governor Posthumus said, "As I surveyed the field of candidates, it was important to me that our party's standard-bearer be a strong, conservative leader who believes in the fundamental strength of the American people. After meeting with Governor Romney and carefully studying his record, I know he is the right candidate to lead our nation forward. Mitt Romney's real-world experience in turning around difficult situations is what America needs right now. I am confident that, as the American people get to know Mitt Romney, they will see a leader who doesn't just talk about a better future, but actually makes it happen."
Background On Former Lt. Governor Dick Posthumus:
Former Lt. Governor Dick Posthumus Has Been A Leader In Michigan For Over 20 Years. His career in government service began with his election to the State Senate in 1982. He was Michigan's longest serving Senate Majority Leader and was elected Lieutenant Governor in 1998. In 2002, he was the Republican nominee for Governor. His career was marked by major successes in lowering taxes for Michigan citizens, controlling government spending, improving our schools and standing up for the Michigan values that he holds dear. As a farmer and a sportsman, he also stands out as a leader on the issues that matter to Michigan farmers, hunters and fishermen. As a husband, father, grandfather, farmer, businessman and community leader, Lt. Governor Posthumus has pursued his ideal of making Michigan a better place to live, work and raise a family. He currently resides on his farm with his wife Pam and is CEO of Compatico, an office furniture manufacturer in Grand Rapids.
  