
    America is in an economic crisis.
More Americans are without jobs, and for longer periods of time, than at any time in our history since the Great Depression.
I am running for President because we need to insist on dramatic and bold changes in Washington and in the policies that are killing jobs.
There is no more important task for the next president. President Obama has shown that he is not equal to the task. He has failed to lead effectively to solve these economic challenges. In fact his policies and his attitudes have made the economy worse. He needs to be replaced.
America is based on the belief that men and women are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable rights, among which are life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness.
As a result, America for 235 years has been a beacon of hope and opportunity for every person willing to work hard and create a better life.
But today, hope and opportunity are at risk.
In 2007 and 2008, candidate Obama ran a decentralized campaign that placed its trust in the American people. But upon his election, President Obama asked the American people to place their trust in Washington.
When I announced my candidacy for President of the United States on May 11, I set out to run a substantive, solutions-oriented campaign built upon an alternative idea.
To make Washington smaller, we as citizens must become bigger.
We must persuade one person at a time, one family at a time, and one community at a time that we have better solutions than the corrupted, collectivist policies we've seen from Washington.
Because the renewal of America can only begin with you, this will be your campaign.
As someone who has been in public life for nearly forty years, I know full well the rigors of campaigning for public office. I will endure them. I will carry the message of American renewal to every part of this great land, whatever it takes.
Next Monday, I will take part in the first New Hampshire Republican primary debate.
The critical question of how we put Americans back to work will be asked of me and the other Republican candidates.
It is the most important question of this campaign.
The road ahead will not be easy for America. As a citizen who loves his country and does not want to see it fail, I will humbly offer my vision for renewing America's future alongside the other candidates.
And I will work every day of this campaign to make this vision of American renewal a reality.
But in the end saving America and getting us out of the Obama Depression and back to a working, prosperous America will take your voice, your work, and your support.
Together we can create a much better future for America.
Your friend,
Newt
  