
    Today, the Biden-Harris Administration announced a comprehensive strategy to combat violent crime and gun violence. Addressing the nation with Attorney General Merrick Garland, President Biden said he will move decisively with a comprehensive approach to deal with the epidemic of gun violence and work to ensure public safety as we enter the summer months when cities typically experience a spike in violence.
The President's strategy implements preventative measures that are proven to reduce violent crime and attacks root causes – including by addressing the flow of firearms used to commit crimes.
The announcement was met with praise from gun violence advocates, community leaders, law enforcement leaders and state, local, and federal elected officials who thanked President Biden and the Department of Justice for the robust plan they've outlined to protect families and communities across the country.
See below for what they are saying:
Gun violence prevention advocates
Peter Ambler, Executive Director, Giffords: "Joe Biden and Kamala Harris continue to make good on their promises to address America's gun violence epidemic. This White House prioritizes public safety and also the worth and dignity of all Americans—for the Biden-Harris administration, it's not an either/or. The steps announced today—including funding evidence-based community violence intervention programs and cracking down on rogue dealers that jeopardize all of our safety—build on the actions the administration announced in April, including the nomination of David Chipman as ATF director. At Giffords, we often say that no one law or policy will prevent all acts of gun violence. Gun violence is a complex problem that requires an array of solutions. President Biden and Vice President Harris understand this, and they understand that the time for change and action is now. We are so grateful for their courageous leadership on this issue, and we look forward to continuing to work with their administration towards a future where no family is torn apart and no American lives in fear of gun violence. We join the president and vice president in calling on Congress to take immediate action as well. It's time for the Senate to pass fundamental gun safety laws, including universal background checks. The Senate should also vote to confirm David Chipman, whose extensive law enforcement experience and strong leadership would help ATF be the most effective agency it can be." [Press Release, 6/23/21]
Paul Carrillo, Community Violence Initiative Director, Giffords: "For far too long, politicians across the nation have turned a blind eye to the preventable tragedies of community violence. These shootings disproportionately impact underserved communities—communities that the Biden-Harris administration is making an effort to invest in through steps like the ones announced today. We must celebrate these victories and this progress while also acknowledging how far we have left to go. Funding proven community violence intervention programs and increasing the resources available to formerly incarcerated individuals are crucial steps on this long, important journey." [Press Release, 6/23/21]
Kris Brown, President, Brady: "The Administration is right to swiftly address the concerning increase in gun violence and violence with a whole-of-government approach. Under the Trump Administration, we saw surging violence as well as surging gun sales. In 2020, Brady estimates that gun sales increased nearly 64 percent over 2019 rates, while numerous cities have reported increases in homicides, including gun homicides, and shootings. The American people want solutions and President Biden is delivering them in a manner that gets to the roots of this issue without harming the communities already bearing the brunt of this violence. Today's announcement shows that President Biden understands that effectively addressing gun violence requires a comprehensive approach that includes both demand and supply side strategies. By focusing on enforcing the laws already in place, President Biden can stem the flow of those weapons to the illegal market and into communities most impacted, without repeating the harmful policing policies of the past that can exacerbate these cycles of violence. The supply side approaches in today's actions will hold irresponsible gun dealers accountable for profiting off of violence taking place in communities they do not live in, while President Biden's previous demand side policies, such as the call for a historic $5 billion for community violence prevention, break cycles of gun violence by investing in and strengthening communities to address the root causes of violence and conflict. These actions will have a direct and lasting impact in communities that are being torn apart by daily gun violence. Thank you to President Biden and Attorney General Merrick Garland for this focus and plan." [Press Release, 6/23/21]
Josh Scharff, Legal Counsel and Combating Crime Guns Program Director, Brady: "As reporting last month by USA Today and The Trace using Brady-supplied materials showed, the ATF has for too long failed to adequately enforce existing laws governing the safe sale and transfer of firearms. President Biden's announcement today shows that those days are over. We know that this will immediately and tangibly help to reduce gun violence by stopping the trafficking of firearms throughout our country. We know that most firearms used in crimes, called crime guns, begin in the legal marketplace at a licensed dealer. Incredibly only 5 percent of gun dealers are responsible for 90 percent of crime guns that are recovered and traced by law enforcement. By addressing the reality that a small number of irresponsible dealers are responsible for the majority of crime guns, the Biden Administration can help prevent those crimes and save lives. Importantly, included among these policies is a formalization of data-driven prioritization of inspection resources, a policy that Brady has called for and championed with our enhanced inspections initiative for years. Today is a historic day in the effort to enforce our nation's gun laws and properly inspect the gun industry." [Press Release, 6/23/21]
Kelly Sampson, Senior Counsel and Director of Racial Justice, Brady: "This announcement is a watershed moment in the gun violence prevention movement; the President of the United States has listened to communities and crafted solutions that will effectively reduce the flow of dangerous arms onto our streets without relying on brute force. This announcement addresses the reality of gun violence in America, where nearly half of all homicides occur in just 127 cities and towns that contain only a quarter of the population and where Black men and boys from 15 to 34 comprised 37 percent of gun homicides, despite being less than 2 percent of the population. These statistics do not reflect a "culture of violence" requiring ever more militant policing, as some suggest, but they instead reflect decades of racist policies, oppression, and indifference. The reality is that gun homicide disproportionately affects Black and Brown Americans, even though the firearms used in those crimes are often negligently or recklessly sold outside of our communities. Brady is proud and pleased to see the Biden Administration tackle both ends of that equation, first in calling for historic funding for violence prevention programs to help heal our communities and now in addressing the source of these dangerous weapons. President Biden and his administration are truly taking comprehensive action to address violence in our country." [Press Release, 6/23/21]
Fred Guttenberg, Gun Safety Advocate: "Today @POTUS will announce new efforts to stem a rising tide of violent crime. Officials are bracing for what could be a turbulent summer, focusing on attacking gun trafficking, providing funds to cities that need police & offering community support Since the early days of COVID, I and others in the gun safety space have warned that the gun surge unleashed by former administration will have deadly consequences. We are seeing that now. Thank you @POTUS @JoeBiden for leading on this and for taking steps to save lives." [Tweet, 6/23/21]
John Feinblatt, President, Everytown for Gun Safety: "One of the first steps in stopping the surge of city gun violence is stopping the flow of guns from states with weak gun laws into states with stronger laws. The Department of Justice's coordinated approach to tracking down gun traffickers and their deadly stock in trade provides some urgently needed help to cities on the frontlines of America's gun violence crisis." [Press Release, 6/22/21]
Shannon Watts, Founder, Moms Demand Action: "This initiative is aimed at the heart of one of the major causes of our nation's spike in violent crime — criminal trafficking of guns from states with lax laws into cities. There is only so much local governments can do alone to fight gun violence when the next state over makes it so easy for anyone to buy a gun at any time, and we applaud the Justice Department for stepping in. This is a step in the right direction, but Congress must also do its part, starting with the Senate acting to close the background check loophole." [Press Release, 6/22/21]Law enforcement
Bill Bratton, Former New York City Police Commissioner: "Kudos to President @JoeBiden and his administration on their comprehensive and well-conceived Public Safety plan to combat violence and improve public safety in America." And "Desperately needed and long overdue, a Public Safety plan of this scale can make a huge difference, both in the short term and long term, in the fight against the crime virus plaguing America." [Tweet, 6/23/21]
Paul DelPonte, Executive Director, National Crime Prevention Council: "The president is helping start a much-needed conversation about reducing violent crime. A greater investment in community interventions will help take a bite out of violent crime," said Paul DelPonte, head of the National Crime Prevention Council. "Strategies that increase public engagement in public safety are proven crime stoppers. Putting more police officers who are trained and certified in crime prevention on the streets of our communities makes sense." [Article, 6/23/21]
Cerelyn "CJ" Davis, Chief, Memphis Police Department: "The Memphis Police Department has responded to unprecedented increases in shootings and other violent crime incidents over the past 18 months. Today's statement from the White House, outlines a holistic strategy for cities like Memphis, and other state and federal partners, to receive additional funding to collaboratively combat gun crimes that threaten the safety of our citizens. We are excited about these additional resources, and this announcement could not have come at a more urgent time. We look forward to utilizing these funds to enhance recruitment strategies, overtake costs for crime reduction initiatives, youth programs, training and more." [Statement, 6/23/21]
Pennsylvania AG Josh Shapiro: "The surge in gun violence over the last year requires nothing less than bold, decisive action. Pennsylvanians deserve this comprehensive public safety legislation. Thank you, @POTUS." [Tweet, 6/23/21]
Virginia AG Mark Herring : "The Biden-Harris Administration's strategy to combat crime and gun violence would: -Hold rogue firearms dealers accountable. -Support local law enforcement with federal tools. -Invest in community violence interventions. -Expand summer employment opportunities. And much more." [Tweet, 6/23/21]
Governors
New Jersey Governor Phil Murphy: "Tackling gun violence and instituting commonsense gun safety measures will save lives. Period. Full stop." [Tweet, 6/23/21]
Mayors
Dayton Mayor and U.S. Conference of Mayors President Nan Whaley: "Mayors have been sounding the alarm on this deadly problem for years, and we're grateful that President Biden is stepping up to direct the capabilities and resources of the federal government to help. The rise in violent crime since the beginning of this pandemic is showing no signs of slowing, and we are in for a long, difficult summer if there's not quick action to address both the root causes and the flow of illegal guns in American cities. This crisis requires both illegal firearm enforcement action and new commonsense laws to make sure guns are not ending up in the hands of people who shouldn't have them. We must implement new community policing initiatives, violence intervention programs, and strategies to give young people opportunities and keep them off the streets as well as returning citizens the support they need to successfully re-enter their communities. We simply cannot accept a new normal of heightened gun violence in America. That's why mayors welcome today's announcement and are eager to work with the administration to bring an end to this spike in deadly gun violence." [Statement, 6/23/21]
Clarence Anthony, CEO and Executive Director, National League of Cities (NLC): "The National League of Cities supports the efforts outlined by the Biden-Harris Administration, which align with several NLC priorities to address crime in our communities. Municipalities across the country are facing a troubling rise in violent crime and we urgently need holistic and integrated solutions to help make our communities safer.
Local leaders know that addressing violence requires tackling the systemic and complex causes that destabilize communities and undermine public safety efforts. Rising violence is driven by many factors, including income disparities, poverty, lack of economic mobility, poor housing conditions, hate and discrimination and lack of access to health services, among others. Keeping guns from flowing into our communities is just one part of the solution – we must also invest in communities that have faced long-standing divestments that compound social and economic insecurity while ensuring that our public safety initiatives do not disproportionately target communities of color.
NLC is committed to partnering with the Biden-Harris Administration to help local leaders reimagine the way they provide public safety services. We are helping local leaders respond, recover, and rebuild more prosperous, equitable, and diverse communities and hope to work with our federal partners to find solutions that address the root causes of violence." [Statement, 6/23/21]
Atlanta Mayor Keisha Lance Bottoms: "I continue to be grateful for the leadership of @POTUS. His unwavering support of communities across America will make a tremendous difference as we address gun violence in our nation." [Tweet, 6/23/21]
Miami-Dade Mayor Daniella Levine Cava: "President Biden got it right — here at home we're going straight to the issues at the root of gun violence, and investing in programs that will reduce crime while lifting up our most vulnerable families. Thank you @POTUS for a fruitful conversation. Now let's get work." [Tweet, 6/23/21]
Chicago Mayor Lightfoot: "I am pleased to share that within the next 30 days, the Biden-Harris Administration and @TheJusticeDept will be launching five new strike forces to address significant firearms trafficking corridors that have diverted guns to Chicago and other major cities." [Tweet, 6/23/21]
Louisville Mayor Greg Fischer: "Really appreciate @POTUS bringing the full force of national government to combat gun violence and homicides, as @LMPD, @SafeHealthyLou & the rest of Metro works locally on our "whole of government & city" approach to public safety." [Tweet, 6/23/21]
Minneapolis Mayor Jacob Frey: "Our country is experiences an epidemic of gun violence, and Minneapolis isn't immune to it. My proposal for the first wave of federal Rescue Plan funding features a strong commitment to violence prevention and intervention work in addition to resources for law enforcement. The strategies that we are advancing here in Minneapolis are aligned with President Biden's collaborative Community Violence Intervention initiative, and we're grateful for the White House's commitment to working directly with local governments to curb gun violence." [Tweet, 6/23/21]
Memphis Mayor Jim Strickland: "Thankful for more resources coming to Memphis to combat gun violence. @POTUS announced today: ??money for police, youth, those needing a 2nd chance, and gun violence interruption ??assistance from FBI, ATF, DEA & Marshalls Service," [Tweet, 6/23/21]
Birmingham Mayor Randall Woodfin: "As @POTUS has said many times, we are experiencing an epidemic of gun violence in this country. I've lost family members to gun violence, and I'm committed to doing what I can as Mayor to prevent any more mothers, brothers and loved ones from experiencing that same pain and loss." [Tweet, 6/23/31]
Non-profits
Kresge Foundation: "Violence is an epidemic that has a devastating impact on our youth & families, disproportionately harming Black & Brown communities. We join our peers in #philanthropy to support the Biden administration's new Community Violence Intervention Collaborative." [Tweet, 6/23/21]
Schusterman Family Philanthropies: Today, we are proud to join our peers in philanthropy in supporting President Biden's new Community Violence Intervention Collaborative to strengthen and scale evidence-based interventions to reduce violence, promote safety, and foster healing." [Tweet, 6/23/21]
W.K. Kellogg: "Kids deserve to grow up in neighborhoods confident that the adults around them are doing everything to keep them safe, happy & healthy. We've joined this collaborative to curb community violence, guided by community wisdom and public health approaches." [Tweet, 6/23/21]
Emerson Collective: "Today, we are proud to join our peers in philanthropy in supporting President Biden's new Community Violence Intervention Collaborative to strengthen and scale evidence-based interventions to reduce violence, promote safety, and foster healing." [Tweet, 6/23/21]
The Joyce Foundation: "Today, we are proud to join our peers in philanthropy in supporting President Biden's new Community Violence Intervention Collaborative to strengthen and scale evidence-based interventions. #GunViolencePrevention #NextGeneration" [Tweet, 6/23/21]
Arnold Ventures: "We applaud @POTUS' new Community Violence Intervention Collaborative to strengthen and scale #evidencebased interventions to reduce violence, promote safety, and foster healing." [Tweet, 6/23/21]
Ford Foundation: "Today, we are proud to join our peers in philanthropy in supporting President Biden's new Community Violence Intervention Collaborative to strengthen and scale evidence-based interventions to reduce violence, promote safety, and foster healing." [Tweet, 6/23/21]
MacArthur Foundation: Community violence intervention work needs support, in Chicago and beyond. New today, we're proud to join the Community Violence Intervention Collaborative, an effort to strengthen and scale community-led violence interventions in 15 cities. This effort aims to support communities by scaling and piloting proven and promising strategies to reduce violence and reimagine public safety. We hope to learn from the collaborative, work towards collective healing, and support a movement for social justice." [Tweet, 6/23/21]
Members of Congress
Georgia Congresswoman Lucy McBath: "Today, the Biden Administration announced additional steps to address the epidemic of gun violence. These actions do more to support local law enforcement and invest in our communities to reduce and prevent violent crime." [Tweet, 6/23/21]
Pennsylvania Congressman Dwight Evans: "With @POTUS ' new comprehensive plan, I am glad #Philly will have this opportunity to become a leading city in preventing #GunViolence & expanding public safety. This problem isn't limited to Philly – it's happening across the country." [Tweet, 6/23/21]
Michigan Congresswoman Debbie Dingell: "Today, @POTUS announced several actions his administration is taking to prevent gun violence, including stemming the flow of illegal firearms, giving law enforcement tools they need to respond to violent crime, & investing in programs to address the root cause of violent crime. These actions will build on steps President Biden has already taken to address gun violence across the country. The Senate should join the House in supporting President Biden's swift actions by finally passing bipartisan background check legislation." [Tweet, 6/23/21]
New York Congresswoman Nydia Velazquez: "Today, @POTUS outlined his strategy to address gun violence and stop the flow of guns into our cities. His plan will allow state and local governments to use funds from the American Rescue Plan to help make our communities safer. The time is now to end gun violence. Enough." [Tweet, 6/23/21]
New York Congressman Jerry Nadler: "Gun violence exacts a deadly toll across America every day. In addition to the Senate taking up House-passed gun safety legislation, we need a comprehensive strategy to end this epidemic. The plan announced today is a smart strategy that will save lives and lift up communities." [Tweet, 6/23/21]
Senators
Illinois Senator Dick Durbin: "There have been too many funerals, too many communities devastated by gun violence. I commend the administration for their gun violence prevention strategy, which implements preventative measures that are proven to reduce violent crime. I'm glad to see this safety strategy includes measures I have long advocated for, such as increased gun trafficking enforcement & evidence-based community violence intervention programs, but Congress still has a job to do. We must address gun violence for what it is: an epidemic." [Tweet, 6/23/21]
Florida Senator Shevrin Jones: "Thank you President @JoeBiden and the @WhiteHouse for releasing a comprehensive plan to deal with the rising of gun violence in communities. Your multifaceted approach to this epidemic is a step in the right direction. Thank you!" [Tweet, 6/23/21]
Tennessee Senator Raumesh Akbari: "This is a BIG deal. Super excited about ?the #BidenHarris plan to reduce gun violence & crime- and that Memphis is one of the targeted cities. We can't stop gun violence without getting to the root causes- happy to see this holistic approach." [Tweet, 6/23/21]
  