
    Pool Reports by Tal Kopan, San Francisco Chronicle 



Sent:
Reports:




June 24, 202111:21

In-town pool report 1: Good morning 
Good morning from an exceptionally tolerable late June day at the White House, where the sun is abundantly shining but the humidity is mercifully low. This is relevant to the in-house pool, as we expect as of now that the next time we will see the President is at the M1 departure ahead of his travel this afternoon.
Your pooler is here at the updated call time ahead of a meeting with senators on the infrastructure talks.
We've been told this meeting is closed press, and we have received no updates to the schedule.
As always, I stand ready to alert you to any changes, notable appearances at the sticks, and, of course, any news.



June 24, 202112:26

In-town pool report 2: Senators meeting underway 
The White House says Biden's meeting with senators began at 11:59 a.m.



June 24, 202112:31

In-town pool report 2a: Attendees 
From the White House:
The President and the Vice President are meeting with a bipartisan group of Senators on infrastructure negotiations, including:
Senator Bill Cassidy (R-LA)Senator Susan Collins (R-ME)Senator Joe Manchin (D-WV)Senator Lisa Murkowski (R-AK)Senator Rob Portman (R-OH)Senator Mitt Romney (R-UT)Senator Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH)Senator Kyrsten Sinema (D-AZ)Senator Jon Tester (D-MT)Senator Mark Warner (D-VA)



June 24, 202112:35

In-town pool report 3: Meeting over 
Per overhead announcement and email from the White House:
The meeting with senators ended at 12:31 p.m. and the senators are headed out to the sticks immediately.



June 24, 202112:37

In town pool 4: Biden at sticks
Unbeknownst to the pool, Biden himself came out with senators.
He's talking now. Said no one got everything they wanted. More to come



June 24, 202112:44

In town pool report 4a: more Biden 
Biden thanked each and every one of the senators and took a few questions.
He said he had been briefed on the Miami condo collapse
"I have, I've spoken with the mayor I've spoken with the congresswoman," he said and said he'd say more later.
Pool couldn't quite hear, but believe he said infrastructure will be a two track system, then said he'd say more later at remarks.
After speaking he spoke privately with Sen Tester in the back of the group for a few moments, then as he walked inside waved (literally) off a question from Peter Doocy about what he wants to see from Harris at the border tomorrow.
Pool is back inside awaiting further guidance on remarks.



June 24, 202112:59

In-town pool report 5: Remarks coming, TBD 
The White House tells us that Biden will give remarks on the infrastructure deal, but I have no timing to share. Obviously, we're about an hour from the previously scheduled departure time.
Here's a little update on the situation: Your pooler had been advised to stand by while the senators were speaking for possible movement.
Others in the White House shouted that Biden had come out as well, and pool sprinted to get there, but was in the back, missed the beginning and could only half hear.
I'm going to trust that the remarks have gone out on TV by now and seem to have been captured here very well:https://twitter.com/RiegerReport/status/1408103750598803457
So I'm not going to provide any further quotes from that gaggle at the sticks. If you have questions or trouble with that plan, let me know.
Otherwise, stay tuned for updates on gathering for the remarks and watch your inboxes for any schedule updates.



June 24, 202113:14

In-town pool report 5a: Timing 
I'm just backstopping this updated guidance from the White House:
EDT 
2:00 PM THE PRESIDENT delivers remarks on the bipartisan infrastructure deal; THE VICE PRESIDENT also attendsEast RoomExpanded In-House Pool Coverage (Final Gather 1:35 PM – Palm Room Doors)
(Yes, this is exactly the time that is listed for his departure on M1. No, we have not received any updated guidance on how this schedule would shift.)



June 24, 202113:44

In town pool report 6: Awaiting remarks 
Pool is assembled in the East Room awaiting 2 pm remarks from the President. It is being streamed live on the White House website so I will only send color.
The room is staged with about three dozen golden chairs spaced in front of the podium, which is backed by six flags. Eagle-eyed Josh Boak of AP spies names taped to the front and center seats: Granholm, Buttigieg, Raimondo and Fudge. The rest are unlabeled.
I'll tweet a picture @talkopan



June 24, 202114:02

In town pool report 6a: Two minute warning to Biden
Two minutes



June 24, 202114:35

In-town pool report 7: Remarks over, heading to departure
You saw it live. The President and Vice President entered the room at about 2:02 pm. When his entrance was announced, the audience of staff all stood, until Biden said "please be seated."
The front row is the aforementioned Cabinet officials and senior staff including Jen Psaki, Ron Klain, Brian Deese (spotted carrying a well-used folder) and Steve Richetti.
Also spotted in the audience: Jen O'Malley Dillon, Cedric Richmond and Bruce Reed. Other staff stood along the sides of the room.
White House official word: Attending the President's remarks are Jobs Cabinet members and White House senior staff. Cabinet secretaries attending:Secretary Gina RaimondoSecretary Marcia FudgeSecretary Pete ButtigiegSecretary Jennifer Granholm
As Biden spoke, VP Harris stood at his side, gazing toward the cameras and occasionally nodding for emphasis. She seemed to enjoy much of the q&a, seeming bemused by his initial response to the first question (on guaranteeing success) taking issue with the question's premise, by him whispering into the mic, as well as a few other back-and-forths with reporters.
Remarks ended at 2:14 and he took questions until 2:32 (including being reminded to speak to the Miami building collapse). Then as he left he took a few more farther from earshot. "She's done a great job so far," he said in response to the shouted question about Harris adding she laid the groundwork in Central America and answered a question about Afghanistan.
We're headed straight outside for departure.
I tweeted a picture of the remarks https://mobile.twitter.com/TalKopan/status/1408123963327328266



June 24, 202114:43

In-town pool report 8: departure 
The president exited the White House alone at 2:38 pm wearing his trademark shades and strode across the South Lawn to the (long) waiting helicopter. He did not acknowledge the pool.He was followed be staff a minute later.
Wheels up at 2:42 pm.
Handing it over to out of town pool until the return tonight.



June 24, 202115:02

In-town pool report 7a: Off-camera questions 
I heard from several of you that it was hard to hear the questions the President answered off to the side of the room on the livestream. I was also on the other side of the room so my audio isn't great, but our wonderful TV colleagues played back the audio for me from their feed.
Here is the otter audio link and the rough transcript:
https://otter.ai/u/S64dHdAO60fxffLk0VYivxvldRQ
I will try to clean it up now in Otter but this should get you guys going first.
Also I will send a two-minute warning if they give us one for the gaggle from the plane, which should be streamed live at whitehouse.gov/live



June 24, 202115:29

In-town pool report 9: Gaggle warning
Two minute warning for the gaggle from AF1 – get to your computers if you want to listen



June 24, 202118:22

In town pool report 10: NALEO update 
From the White House:
Earlier today, the President provided a pre-recorded message for the National Association of Latino Elected Officials' 38th annual conference on the administration's efforts to address COVID-19, economic recovery, and implementing a whole of government approach to advance racial equity. The National Association of Latino Elected Officials (NALEO) is a membership organization of Latino public servants from all levels of government across the country, consisting of more than 6,800 national, state, and local elected and appointed Latino officials.



June 24, 202120:25

In town pool report 11: Arrival and lid 
Marine 1 landed on the South Lawn at 8:18.
President Biden disembarked, removed his mask and saluted the Marine at 8:20, then walked into the residence. He indicated to the pool that he couldn't hear shouted questions about McConnell and corporate tax rates and said "talk to me tomorrow" (or possibly that he'd talk to us tomorrow, hard to hear. The agreement is it was something about talking tomorrow).
A travel/photo lid was called at 8:24. Good night!




 
Pool Reports below by Brett Samuels, The Hill 



Sent:
Reports:




June 24, 202114:37

POTUS travel pool report #1: Trip background 
Good afternoon from sunny Joint Base Andrews! I'll be your print pooler today for President Biden's trip to Raleigh, where he'll be visiting a mobile vaccination clinic and delivering remarks.
Feel free to send any questions you may have for the in-flight gaggle and I will do my best to ask in the time we have.
The White House sends along the following background ahead of the president's visit.
National Vaccination Efforts 
· Federal financial support: The Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has obligated approximately $4.9 billion to support vaccination operations.
· Federal personnel: The Biden-HarrisAdministration has deployed over 9,000 personnel to vaccination sites, including over 2,500 FEMA personnel and 5,100 active duty troops.
· Vaccine distribution: There are over 81,000 sites offering vaccinations, including 41,500 pharmacies, and over 90% of Americans live within 5 miles of a vaccination site.
o Community Health Centers (CHCs) have been a central part of the Biden-Harris Administration's equity strategy, with 75% of doses administered to people of color across over 2,200 sites.
o The Biden-Harris Administration also administered over 3 million shots through federally-supportedmobile clinics, and federal-run vaccination sites located in high-risk zip codes.
o As part of the Biden-Harris Administration's Month of Action, over 5,000 pharmacies nationwide extended vaccination hours for three Fridays in June, with many offering vaccinations 24 hours a day.
· Mobilize partners: During the Month of Action, the Biden-Harris Administration is mobilizing city leaders through a Mayors Challenge with over 100 cities across 33 states (including Durham and Charlotte); colleges through a College Challenge with over 700 colleges (including 23 in North Carolina); and other local partners through a 15-day tour across 16 states to improve vaccine confidence and vaccinations (including stops in Raleigh and Charlotte).
· Equity efforts: From the beginning, the Biden-Harris Administration put equity at the center of the COVID-19 response.Federally Qualified Health Centers (FQHCs) have administered 75% of doses to people of color; Community Vaccination Centers (CVCs) have administered 59% of doses to people of color. Over the past two weeks, the Federal Retail Pharmacy Program has administered 53% of doses to people of color. The Administration also addressed barriers to vaccinations that disproportionately impact communities of color through a tax credit for businesses to provide paid time off, free childcare during vaccinations, and free transportation to and from a vaccination site.
National Progress to Date 
· As of June 21, 175 million people – over 65% of the adult population and over half of the total U.S. population – have received at least one dose. Over 56% of the adult population is fully vaccinated.
· Over 87% of individuals age 65 and older and over 70% of individuals age 30 and older have received at least one dose.
· The Biden-Harris Administration is working directly with states to optimize their vaccination programs to better address outbreaks. The Administration also helped address rising cases, hospitalizations, and variant spread, including through additional therapeutics, testing, personnel, sequencing support, supplies, and hospital capacity to states of concern.
Federal Support for the State 
· Pharmacies: As of June 21st, over 2.2 million shots have been administered in North Carolina at over 1,400 local pharmacies.
· Community Health Centers (CHCs): The Biden-HarrisAdministration is delivering vaccine doses directly to 25 CHCs in the state, spanning over 50 sites. As of June 22nd, 63,700 doses have been delivered directly to CHCs in the state.
· Federal Funding and Personnel:As of June 21st, the Biden-Harris Administration has provided over $105 million to North Carolina to support vaccination operations in communities across the state. The Administration has deployed over 240 federal personnel to North Carolina to support community vaccination centers, and provided federal funding for over 660 National Guard members to support the state's overall COVID-19 response.
· Federally-run Vaccination Sites:The Biden-Harris Administration stood up a FEMA vaccination site in Greensboro, North Carolina, which administered over 135,000 shots in arms.
North Carolina Vaccination Efforts 
· Gov. Cooper has been employing a range of innovative tools to increase vaccinations, including a $4 million Summer Cash Drawing, over $2.5 million to local transit agencies to help pay for rides, and a mobile unit program to offer vaccines to home-bound individuals. To ensure ease of registration, the state also has a full-time call center dedicated to registering individuals for vaccinations.
· North Carolina launched a data-driven public education campaign and PSAs like "You Have a Spot, Take Your Shot" and "Bring Back Summer" that focus on targeting hard-to-reach households. The state used research, polling, and focus groups to develop these vaccine confidence, education, and outreach efforts.
· Mobile Vaccination Unit at Green Road Community Center: To date, the mobile program has provided more than 4,000 COVID-19 vaccines at 30 separate events, targeting corporations and community organizations, with a special emphasis on historically marginalized populations.



June 24, 202115:00

POTUS travel pool report #2: Departing JBA 
Marine One was wheels down at JBA at 2:50 p.m.
From the White House:
Upon arrival to Joint Base Andrews, the President will be greeted by Colonel William McDonald, 89th Airlift Wing Vice Commander.
The two walked and talked for a couple minutes before Biden waved to the pool and boarded Air Force One without coming over to talk.
We are rolling at 3 p.m. and will be wheels up momentarily for North Carolina.
Principal Deputy Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre is scheduled to gaggle during the flight. It will be streamed live on the White House website.
Traveling with the President to Raleigh, North Carolina:
Michael Regan, Administrator of the Environmental Protection AgencyBruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of StaffKate Bedingfield, Assistant to the President & Director of CommunicationsKarine Jean-Pierre, Deputy Assistant to the President & Principal Deputy Press SecVinay Reddy, Deputy Assistant to the President & Director of SpeechwritingTravis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President and Trip DirectorStephen Goepfert, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the PresidentMichael Hochman, Special Assistant to the President& Deputy Staff SecretaryAshley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office OperationsJonathan Cedarbaum, Deputy Counsel to the President and NSC Legal AdvisorNatalie Quillian, Deputy Coordinator of the COVID-19 Response



June 24, 202115:52

POTUS travel pool report #3: Raleigh arrival 
Air Force One touched down in Raleigh at 3:45 p.m.
Karine Jean-Pierre spoke with reporters for 17 minutes and continued taking questions right through the landing.
I'm told the live feed worked, so I won't pass along full quotes. Among the topics covered were the infrastructure deal announced earlier at the White House, the administration's vaccination efforts and Gen. Miller's comments on critical race theory.
Full video here:
https://youtu.be/Om3XLzh5L44



June 24, 202116:04

POTUS travel pool report #4: Headed to mobile vaccination site 
President Biden deplaned at 3:56 p.m. and was greeted by North Carolina Gov. Roy Cooper. The two were joined by the EPA administrator, and they spoke for a few minutes out of earshot of the pool before POTUS climbed into his awaiting vehicle.
We are motorcading to our first stop, Green Road Community Center. It's expected to be a roughly 25 minute drive, and we're rolling as of 4:03.



June 24, 202116:30

POTUS travel pool report #5: Community center arrival
Motorcade arrived at the Green Road Community Center at 4:24 p.m.
The ride was uneventful. A few dozen onlookers waved and snapped photos/video as the motorcade left the airport, and we saw a few dozen more as we approached the community center.
Pool is now waiting for the mobile vacation site tour to begin.



June 24, 202116:31

POTUS travel pool report #6: Photo line
From the White House:
The President is participating in a photoline with elected officials and local leaders, including:

Aundrea White, Director at Green Road Community Center and Park for the City of Raleigh Parks, Recreation, and Cultural Resources Department.
Josh Stein, Attorney General of North Carolina
Dr. Mandy Cohen, Secretary Health and Human Services, State of North Carolina
Dr. Bobbie Richardson, Chair, North Carolina Democratic Party
Robert Reives, House Minority Leader and State Representative (Durham)
Mary-Ann Baldwin, Mayor of Raleigh
Steve Schewel, Mayor of Durham
Matt Calabria, County Commissioner Chair of Wake County (D)
Rev. Dr. William Barber II, National Co-Chair, Poor People's Campaign
Rev. Dr. Jane Della Owens, National Director of Safety and Security, Repairers of the Breach
MaryBe McMillan, President of the North Carolina AFL-CIO




June 24, 202117:07

POTUS travel pool report #7: Brief comments at mobile vaccination site 
Biden emerged from the community center at 5 p.m. He answered one question, saying he hasn't spoken to the governor of Florida yet after the building collapse there, but his team has been in touch.
He is now hearing from frontline workers about the mobile vaccination site, though they are difficult to hear from a distance. He could be heard praising the work of nurses and cited the work they did when his son was sick.
He thanked the health care workers for going into communities and taking care of vulnerable populations. "I can't tell you how much I appreciate it."
There are a few people seated under a tent next to a table with needle disposal bins who told the pool they are here to get their shot. Some getting their second dose, some getting their first. (I will tweet a photo.)
From the White House:
The President is meeting with Dr. Rasheeda Monroe (Medical Director, Primary Care Pediatrics at WakeMed), WakeMed vaccinators, and vaccine recipients.



June 24, 202117:17

POTUS travel pool report #8: Awaiting remarks 
Pool was whisked away as Biden was saying hello to individuals getting vaccinated outside the community center. We are now inside the building, where the president will make remarks on the vaccination effort and the pandemic shortly.
There are a couple hundred people seated around the gymnasium here, many of whom applauded when the presidential deal was affixed to the lectern. Many are wearing shirts that say "Took my shot," and only a few folks are wearing masks.
Pool will advise when the remarks are beginning, but will not send quotes as they are being carried live on the White House website.



June 24, 202117:27

POTUS travel pool report #9: Biden speaking momentarily 
Gov. Cooper just took the stage. He will be followed by Ive Jones, a Wake County native and Princeton student, who will introduce the president.
Cooper praised Biden for providing "sensible, strategic national leadership" on the pandemic.
"Thank God for these vaccines. Thanks scientific research. Thanks perseverance for these stunningly effective, life-saving vaccines that are allowing us to gather right here today," he said.
Remarks being carried live here: https://www.whitehouse.gov/live/



June 24, 202118:00

POTUS travel pool report #10: Remarks conclude 
Biden stepped to the microphone at 5:34 p.m. local time. He finished speaking at 5:57 p.m. The remarks were carried live here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Wknr2KiNTbM
The crowd was made up of both regular attendees and canvassers who have volunteered to go out into the community to urge others to get vaccinated. Many of those in the crowd were people of color, and Biden during his speech highlighted the need for vaccine equity and to reach vulnerable populations. He said before wrapping up that the vaccination drive was just part of the administration's overall efforts on racial equity.
Biden then worked the rope line after his speech, posing for photos and greeting attendees.



June 24, 202118:40

POTUS travel pool report #11: Departing community center 
President Biden spent roughly 30 minutes greeting supporters and posing for photos before leaving the building just before 6:30.
The pool made its way back to the van and we did not see POTUS enter the beast. Motorcade is rolling at 6:40 p.m.



June 24, 202119:07

POTUS travel pool report #12: Departing Raleigh 
Motorcade arrived back at the Raleigh-Durham airport at 7 p.m. after an uneventful drive.
Biden was boarding the plane just as the pool got out of our van and onto the tarmac.
We are taxiing for takeoff at 7:07 and will be wheels up shortly for the return trip to JBA.



June 24, 202119:53

POTUS travel pool report #13: JBA arrival 
Air Force One landed at JBA at 7:48 p.m. after a quick, uneventful flight with no visitors to the press cabin.
Per the White House:
Upon arrival to Joint Base Andrews, the President will be greeted by Colonel William McDonald, 89th Airlift Wing Vice Commander.



June 24, 202120:09

POTUS travel pool report #14: Handing off 
President Biden deplaned at 8:03 p.m. and made his way over to Marine One, followed by a few staff members.
Marine One lifted off at 8:09. Handing off to the in-town pool.




  