
    Senator Gamboa, Congressman Alvarez, Senator Bentsen, Congressmen de la Garza, Wright, and others, friends of Mexico:
It's a great pleasure to have you here in our house. 1
I also speak English. [Laughter] And I would like to say in my own language that the first visitor that we had to the White House after I became President was the President of Mexico, my good friend, Lopez Portillo. And my wife attended his inauguration before she attended mine.
1 The President spoke in Spanish, and his remarks were translated by an interpreter.
When he came here, we had a great opportunity to discuss many important matters that are of concern to the people of Mexico and to the people of the United States. Several discussion groups were initiated between our two governments, and their work has already been of great benefit to our people.
We discussed the importance of the ratification of the Treaty of Tlatelolco. We discussed the importance of a free exchange of prisoners incarcerated in our two countries, and we discussed the problem of marine boundaries, a fisheries agreement, agricultural trade, civil aviation. And I can report to you that already we have made excellent progress in every one of these very important matters.
President Lopez Portillo was very helpful to us in negotiating with Panama the terms of the new Panama Canal Treaty. His influence and his moderating position between our country and that of Panama was a very constructive element in the successful conclusion of this treaty which I believe lays a new foundation for relationships throughout this hemisphere.
When he and I became President, one of the greatest problems was the trade in illegal drugs between Mexico and the United States. Because of his courage and the effectiveness of our joint effort, this trade in heroin and other destructive drugs has been drastically reduced.
Obviously, we still have many serious problems that we share—the problem of how to deal humanely and properly with undocumented aliens, the problem of improving the economic status of the people in our two countries, how to increase already good trade relationships between us, to deal with tax problems. I realize that we have many challenges before us, but the friendship that binds us together is a good foundation on which we can anticipate success.
These negotiations are routinely conducted between Presidents or members of our Cabinet. But an exchange of distinguished legislative leaders from between our countries is a very constructive element in the understanding of common needs and in tying the people of our two countries together, even closer than they have been in the past.
We consider this visit to be one not only of great honor to us but one of present and future constructive efforts to make the relationships between our nations even better.
And finally, let me say that the people of the United States of America are blessed to have such a wonderful neighbor to the south. We live in harmony and peace with one another, with mutual respect and friendship, and we have a great admiration for Mexico, not only because of these blessings that are bestowed on us by your being our neighbor but also because of the increasing beneficial influence that the Government of Mexico is having throughout the world.
Your leadership in the developing nations of the world is because of the democratic principles on which your government is founded and in which your people believe, your complete commitment to preserving and enhancing basic human rights. And we are very proud to share these noble ideals with people for whom we care so deeply.
Thank you very much.
  