
    Monday, June 20—Wednesday, June 22, 2016
Dr. Jill Biden has arrived in Lima, Peru as part of her four-country visit to Central and South America to engage government and civil society partners on issues related to economic empowerment and educational opportunities for women and girls.
On Monday, Dr. Biden will visit Surquillo Market in Lima with renowned Peruvian Chef Flavio Solorzano and Peruvian Minister of Trade and Tourism Magali Silva, to see where residents and restauranteurs buy ingredients to produce Lima's traditional cuisine. This event is for invited press.
Dr. Biden will then tour TECSUP, a private higher education institution functioning as a community college which provides technical and research training to 2,220 students in Lima. There, she will visit training facilities for Caterpillar equipment and visit the school's Fab Lab, an educational outreach component of MIT's Center for Bits and Atoms (CBA). A Fab Lab is a technical prototyping platform for innovation and invention, providing stimulus for local entrepreneurship.
Afterwards, Dr. Biden will meet with students at the Chef School at San Ignacio de Loyola University (USIL), which has created two strategic partnerships under President Obama's "100,000 Strong in the Americas" with the Universidad del Este in Carolina, Puerto Rico, and the University of North Alabama in Florence, Alabama. This event is open press.
In the afternoon, Dr. Biden will depart Lima, Peru en route Cusco, Peru.
Upon arrival, Dr. Biden visit the CoriCancha Temple in Cusco where she will meet with Youth Ambassadors. CoriCancha Temple is considered one of the most important temples in the Inca Empire. The Youth Ambassadors Program is a youth exchange for students to participate in intensive, thematic, three-week exchange projects in the U.S. that are designed to promote high-quality leadership, civic responsibility, and civic activism among future leaders of their communities. This event is open press.
On Tuesday, Dr. Biden will visit Machu Picchu. Dr. Biden will be joined by the Mesa Verde National Park Service Superintendent Cliff Spencer and two students and one teacher from Colegio de Alto Rendimiento, Cusco (COAR). This event is for invited press.
On Wednesday, Dr. Biden will visit the Center for Traditional Textiles of Cusco, a women's weaving cooperative located in the community of Chinchero. While visiting the women's weaving cooperative in Chinchero, Dr. Biden will learn about how the Center works with ten weaving communities in the region of Cusco to continue traditional textile traditions of Cusco while providing fair trade support to the indigenous people who create them. This event is open press.
Afterwards, Dr. Biden will deliver remarks at the Colegio de Alto Rendimiento Cusco (COAR), on the shared commitment of the United States, Peru and countries throughout the Western Hemisphere to advance economic empowerment and educational opportunities for women and girls. COAR is a magnet schools created by the Ministry of Education to educate top performing students from public high schools in Peru. This event is open press.
In the afternoon, Dr. Biden will depart Cusco, Peru en route Buenos Aires, Argentina.
  