
    WASHINGTON- Today, President Obama nominated Judge James E. Boasberg, Amy Berman Jackson, and Justice Sue E. Myerscough to seats on the United States District Court.
"These distinguished individuals have demonstrated an unwavering commitment to public service throughout their careers," said President Obama. "I am grateful for their decision to serve the American people from the District Court bench."
Judge James E. Boasberg: Nominee for the United States District Court for the District of Columbia
Judge James E. Boasberg serves as an Associate Judge for the District of Columbia Superior Court, a position he has held since 2002. Prior to becoming a judge, he served for six years as an Assistant United States Attorney for the District of Columbia. Judge Boasberg was in private practice from 1991 to 1996, first with the San Francisco firm of Keker & Van Nest and subsequently with the D.C. firm of Kellogg, Huber, Hansen, Todd & Evans. Following law school, Judge Boasberg clerked for the Honorable Dorothy W. Nelson of the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. Judge Boasberg received his J.D. in 1990 from Yale Law School, his Master of Studies in 1986 from Oxford University, and his B.A. in 1985 from Yale College.
Amy Berman Jackson: Nominee for the United States District Court for the District of Columbia
Amy Berman Jackson is currently a Member of Trout Cacheris, PLLC, in Washington, D.C., where she specializes in complex criminal and civil trials and appeals. Prior to joining Trout Cacheris in 2000, she was an associate and then a partner at Venable, Baetjer, Howard, and Civiletti. From 1980 to 1986, Ms. Jackson served as an Assistant United States Attorney for the District of Columbia where she received Department of Justice Special Achievement Awards for her work on high profile murder and sexual assault cases in 1985 and 1986. After graduating from law school, Ms. Jackson served as a law clerk to the Honorable Harrison L. Winter of the United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit. She received her J.D. cum laude in 1979 from Harvard Law School and her A.B. cum laude in 1976 from Harvard College.
Justice Sue E. Myerscough: Nominee for the United States District Court for the Central District of Illinois
Justice Sue E. Myerscough sits on the Fourth District of the Illinois Appellate Court in Springfield, a position she has held since 1998. Since 2009, she has also served as Presiding Justice, a position she held previously from 2002 to 2003. Before taking her seat on the Appellate Court, Justice Myerscough served as a Circuit Judge from 1990 to 1998 and as an Associate Judge of the Circuit Court for the Seventh Judicial Circuit of Illinois from 1987 to 1990. Justice Myerscough was in private practice in Springfield from 1981 to 1987. Following law school, she clerked for the Honorable Harold A. Baker of the United States District Court for the Central District of Illinois. Justice Myerscough received her J.D. in 1980 from Southern Illinois University School of Law and her B.A. in 1973 from Southern Illinois University.
  