
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
June 11
In the morning, the President traveled to Hanover, NH.
In the afternoon, the President held interviews with the Union Leader of Manchester, NH, and WMUR television in the Dickey Room of Baker Library at Dartmouth College. Following the interviews, he attended a private reception at the library. He then went to Claremont, NH.
In the evening, the President traveled to Boston, MA. He returned to Washington, DC, later in the evening.
June 12
In the late morning, the President met with Capt. Scott O'Grady, USAF, the pilot who was rescued after being shot down in western Bosnia. Following the meeting, he hosted a lunch for Captain O'Grady and his family in the Residence.
The President announced his intention to nominate the following individuals to the following ambassadorial posts:
—Michael William Cotter, Ambassador to Turkmenistan;
—Elizabeth Jones, Ambassador to Kazakhstan;
—Kenneth Michael Quinn, Ambassador to Cambodia;
—John K. Menzies, Ambassador to Bosnia and Herzegovina;
—John Raymond Malott, Ambassador to Malaysia;
—John Todd Stewart, Ambassador to Moldova; and
—Victor Jackovich, Ambassador to Slovenia.
The President announced his intention to nominate James E. Goodby for the rank of Ambassador during his tenure of service as Principal Negotiator and Special Representative of the President for Nuclear Safety and Dismantlement.
The President announced his intention to appoint Gerald T. Garvey, Courtney Riordan, and Reginal Spiller to the Geologic Mapping Advisory Committee.
June 13
The President announced his intention to nominate Under Secretary of the Treasury for International Affairs Lawrence Summers as Deputy Treasury Secretary.
The President declared a major disaster in Kentucky and ordered Federal funds to supplement State and local recovery efforts in communities struck by tornadoes, severe wind and hail storms, torrential rain, and flooding on May 13-19.
The President declared a major disaster in Texas and ordered Federal funds to supplement State and local recovery efforts in communities struck by severe thunderstorms, flooding, hail, and tornadoes on May 28-31.
The President took action to protect life and property from the threat of rising water in the State of North Dakota's Devil Lake Basin by determining that certain Federal-aid roads in the basin area are eligible for assistance from the Federal Highway Administration's emergency fund.
The President announced his intention to appoint the following members to the Board for International Food and Agricultural Development: Ada Demb; Walter Falcon; Miles Goggans; Alan Kligerman; Edward Schuh; and Goro Uehara.
June 14
In the evening, the President and Hillary Clinton hosted a dinner for European Council President Jacques Chirac and Bernardette Chirac, and European Commission President Jacques Santer and Daniele Santer in the State Dining Room.
June 15
In the morning, the President and Hillary Clinton traveled to Shearwater Military Base, Nova Scotia, Canada. Following an arrival ceremony at the base, they boarded the H.M.S. Sir William Alexander and traveled to Halifax, where they participated in an arrival ceremony at the Historic Halifax Dock.
In the afternoon, the President met with Prime Minister Tomiichi Murayama of Japan in the Board Room at Dalhousie University. Following their meeting, they held a press conference in University Hall.
In the evening, the President attended a welcoming reception and dinner for the Group of Seven leaders at Government House.
The President announced his intention to nominate the following individuals to the following ambassadorial posts:
—Edward Brynn, Ambassador to Ghana;
—Peggy Blackford, Ambassador to Guinea-Bissau;
—Daniel Howard Simpson, Ambassador to Zaire;
—John Hirsch, Ambassador to Sierra Leone;
—Vicki Huddleston, Ambassador to Madagascar; and
—Elizabeth Raspolic, Ambassador to Sao Tome and Principe.
The President announced his intention to nominate John W. Hechinger, Sr., to the National Security Education Board.
The President announced his intention to appoint Scott Bernstein as a member of the Federal Advisory Committee on Greenhouse Gas Emissions From Personal Motor Vehicles.
The President announced his intention to appoint Jared L. Cohon, John W. Arendt, and Jeffrey J. Wong as members of the Nuclear Waste Technical Review Board.
The President announced that Secretary of Health and Human Services Donna Shalala appointed the following individuals to serve on the Presidential Advisory Council on HIV/AIDS: R. Scott Hitt; Terje Anderson; Regina Aragon; Mary Boland; Nicholas Bollman; Robert L. Fogel; Debra Frazer-Howze; Kathleen M. Gerus; Edward Gould; Phyllis Greenberger; Bob Hattoy; Carole laFavor; Jeremy Landau; Alexandra Mary Levine; Steve Lew; Altagracia Perez; H. Alexander Robinson; Debbie Runions; Benjamin Schatz; Denise Stokes; Charles Quincy Troupe; Sandra Thurman; and Bruce G. Weniger.
June 16
In the morning, the President went to Summit Place, where he attended a G-7 leaders meeting. He then met with Prime Minister John Major of Great Britain and attended a working lunch with G-7 leaders.
In the afternoon, the President met with Chancellor Helmut Kohl at Summit Place. He then attended the first plenary session of the G-7 summit at the Maritime Museum of the Atlantic. Following the meeting, he participated in a press conference with the G-7 leaders at Sackville Landing. He then returned to Dalhousie University where he held a press conference.
In the evening, the President attended a reception and working dinner with G-7 leaders at the Waegwoltic Boat Club. He then went to Harbourfront where he and Hillary Clinton attended a brief reception, a performance by Cirque du Soleil, and a fireworks display.
The President announced his intention to nominate Ernest J. Moniz as Associate Director for Science at the Office of Science and Technology Policy.
The President announced his intention to appoint Luis J. Lauredo as the U.S. Representative to the Southern States Energy Board.
  