
    To the Congress of the United States:
I am pleased to transmit this report on the Nation's progress in space and aeronautics during 1975. This report is provided in accordance with Section 206 of the National Aeronautics and Space Act of 1958, as amended (42 U.S.C. 2476).
1975 was another year of continued progress in the Nation's space and aeronautics activities. It marked significant accomplishments in many areas.
Earth orbiting satellites continued to bring new and increased benefits in a variety of applications. Two additional international communications satellites were launched, expanding the already impressive international satellite communications capability. A second domestic commercial communications satellite was put into operation. Military satellite communications were enhanced. In addition, a new system of satellites for global weather reporting was initiated, providing reports every thirty minutes on weather across half the globe.
Landsat 2 was orbited to join Landsat 1 to provide additional earth sensing data to explore potential uses in a wide range of activities, including crop forecasting, pollution monitoring, forestry and land use studies, and in mineral exploration.
I had the pleasure and thrill of talking to our astronauts and the Soviet cosmonauts when they linked up in space at the culmination of the historic U.S.--U.S.S.R. Apollo Soyuz Test Project.
Major milestones were met in the development of the Space Shuttle, the Nation's current major space project. Canada agreed to develop the remote manipulator system for the Shuttle, a major and welcome contribution.
Development of Spacelab, a key system to take advantage of the capability of the Space Shuttle and being built and funded by the European Space Agency, continued on schedule.
We continued to probe the unknown in space. Pioneer 10 will be the first manmade object to venture beyond our solar system. Pioneer 11 will make the first flyby of Saturn in 1979. In passing Jupiter these vehicles sent back pictures that added greatly to our knowledge of the largest planet. Last August and September we launched two Viking spacecraft toward Mars. They will arrive at the height of our Bicentennial celebration and may provide information on the existence of life in some form on our neighboring planet.
In aeronautics, research focused on the technologies needed to reduce fuel requirements, noise, and pollution. Also emphasized was improved reliability, performance, and safety. Military aircraft development featured the first supersonic flight of the B-i, the operational deployment of the F-14 and F-15, and the selection of the F-16 and F-18 as future fighter aircraft.
The fruits of our research continued to be enjoyed by the transfer of space and aeronautics technology to many beneficial uses in our society, including energy research, medical care, transportation, and new techniques and materials for manufacturing.
Our Nation's activities in aeronautics and space continue to be a major contribution to our quality of life and economic growth.
We can all take pride in our commitment to advancement in space and aeronautics as reflected in the accomplishments described in this report.
GERALD R. FORD
The White House,
June 29, 1976.
  