
    Pool Reports by Christian Datoc, Daily Caller



Sent:
Reports:




June 4, 202009:46

In-town pool report #1 
Good morning from the White House. It's hot, humid, and looking like we could be dealing with some thunderstorms later this evening. Looks like additional fencing was raised on 17th Street, h/t CNN: https://twitter.com/betsy_klein/status/1268491075343319041
POTUS currently has no public events on his schedule but receives his intelligence brief at 3:00pm and will sign an EO on "permitting" at 4:30. I will advise if anything changes.
Feel free to reach out to me directly with any questions.



June 4, 202011:58

In-house pool report #2 — Gidley gaggle 
Hogan Gidley took questions for roughly five minutes after his Fox hit.
Audio and select quotes: https://otter.ai/note/22TDJFFVGLGBZSBT?f=%2Fmy-notes
Trump/Esper: "We've had this conversation with y'all many times, and I know there's a lot of back and forth on these issues. But the President and the Secretary of Defense went yesterday. And as you know, when the President loses confidence, if he loses confidence, you'll know that."
Executive Order Signing: "I'm not going to get ahead of the details, but I can tell you it does have to do some of the permitting and energy as it relates to rebuilding this country."
Park Police/Tear Gas Canister Photos: "I'm not aware of the tear gas, but as you saw the Park Police, they put out a statement on the matter. But let's not lose sight of what happened here. It's almost as though sometimes the media is telling us, shame on you Donald Trump, shame on you, the administration, for not allowing protesters rioters and looters to come back and finish the job they started."
If not Esper, who is Trump listening to re: military?: "The American people's safety and security is the number one thing, Donald Trump cares about. Period. All options are on the table."
Michael White: "What a great day for this country. What a great day for Michael White, and this President's been focused on bringing people home since he got in office. I've been in the Oval Office many times and I've seen the tears, I felt the emotion, when they were unified back with their families. It's something that that I'll always hold dear... He's gotten more detainees, more hostages back then, than just about any other president, and he's going to keep at it."



June 4, 202012:11

In-town pool report #3 — Gidley gaggle audio link 
Sorry for the double message, here, but I'd been informed some couldn't access the audio link I'd sent around. This one should work for everyone: https://otter.ai/s/lWtPcHmESxeQzGMO0Pe3wg



June 4, 202013:38

In-town pool report #4 — lunch lid until 2:30 
bone apple teeth



June 4, 202017:37

In-town pool report #5 — travel/photo lid 
... called at 5:35 pm ET.
Have a great evening everyone!




  