
    President Biden's historic nomination of Dr. Arati Prabhakar to serve in his Cabinet and as Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP) and Chief Advisor for Science and Technology is winning praise from members of Congress, scientists, R&D advocates, and former OSTP Directors of both Democratic and Republic Administrations. The widespread support — from lawmakers in the House and Senate; scientists and engineers spanning the fields of cancer research, climate change, and national security; stakeholders across academia, industry, basic research, and government; advocates for greater diversity, equity, and inclusion in science, technology, engineering, and math (STEM); and leaders from the Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) community – cites Dr. Prabhakar's proven leadership and deep expertise leveraging science, technology, and innovation to solve our toughest challenges.
Prabhakar garnered bipartisan praise from former OSTP directors in prior Democratic and Republican administrations, who called her "a natural leader" and "a visionary who makes things happen," respectively. Others described her as "an amazing manager" with "really rare" experience, and "the right person at the right time" whose appointment could help "change the face of science."
Read more below:
Senator Maria Cantwell (D-Wash.), Chair of the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation: "Congratulations to Dr. Arati Prabhakar on her nomination to lead the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy. Dr. Prabhakar will leverage her exceptional experience as an applied physicist, engineer and as Director of both the National Institute of Standards and Technology and Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, to best position the U.S. to compete on the global stage. She is the right person at the right time to support the U.S. innovation ecosystem, improve translational science, attract and retain diverse talent pools, and ensure that investments in research and development solve the real challenges facing the American people." [Statement, 6/21/22]
Senator Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.): "Congratulations to Arati Prabhakar, who has lived in California, for her nomination to be director of the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy. Her experience will be a great benefit to our nation's use of science and technology to improve American lives." [Tweet, 6/21/22]
Rep. Eddie Bernice Johnson (D-Tex.), Chairwoman of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology, and Rep. Haley Stevens (D-Mich.), Chairwoman of the House Science Committee Subcommittee on Research and Technology: "We are delighted to congratulate Dr. Arati Prabhakar on her nomination for Director of the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy and the President's science advisor. Throughout her career, Dr. Prabhakar has shown tremendous leadership in science, technology, and innovation. This is a historic nomination as, if confirmed, Dr. Prabhakar will be the first woman, first immigrant, and first person of color to head OSTP. Her career is an inspiration, and her dedication to the American scientific enterprise demonstrates to everyone—especially rising generations—that being a leader in STEM is something to which all may aspire. We would also like to thank Dr. Alondra Nelson for her dedicated leadership of OSTP since February. We look forward to working closely with Dr. Prabhakar, and we hope her Senate confirmation moves swiftly." [Statement, 6/21/22]
Rep. Judy Chu (D-Calif.), Chair of the Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus: "Today's announcement on the nomination of Dr. Arati Prabhakar to lead the White House Office of Science and Technology (OSTP) is incredibly exciting news and I am also thrilled to see a South Asian American woman joining the President's Cabinet. Dr. Prabhakar, a talented physicist and engineer, is well-equipped to help our nation solve current and emerging scientific challenges. When she is confirmed, she will be the first woman, immigrant and person of color to serve in this role, making this nomination not just a phenomenal choice, but one of historical significance as well. As the Chair of CAPAC, I look forward to continuing the caucus' close work with OSTP under Dr. Prabhakar's leadership on issues related to targeting of Asian American researchers, as well as ways to streamline the federal grant application process. I continue to applaud President Biden's commitment to diversifying the Administration with highly qualified and talented individuals, and I urge my colleagues in the Senate to act swiftly on her confirmation." [Statement, 6/21/22]
"R&D advocates are delighted at President Joe Biden's new pick to helm the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy," reports Politico's Morning Technology newsletter: "…They say Arati Prabhakar's decades of experience across federal research agencies and the private sector will provide something rarely seen in an OSTP head — an intimate understanding of Washington's R&D funding ecosystem… They say the former head of two federal R&D agencies, who also spent years doing science for the private sector, is unusually well-positioned to take a comprehensive approach to research policy... 'It's hard to find a science adviser that's maybe coming from one area, and then knows about what the possibilities are in cloud computing for biology, or what the possibilities are for artificial intelligence or quantum computing for biology,' said Sudip Parikh, the CEO of the American Association for the Advancement of Science. 'She's got that, and that's really rare.'" [Politico, 6/22/22]
"Scientists applaud the nominee," reports Nature: "…Scientists contacted by Nature applauded Prabhakar's nomination, saying her experience and leadership skills would serve the administration well. 'She is a natural leader,' says Neal Lane, a physicist at Rice University in Houston, Texas, who served as director of the US National Science Foundation (NSF) while Prabhakar was at NIST and went on to become Clinton's science adviser. … [According to] Rebecca Barnes, a biogeochemist at Colorado College in Colorado Springs, and a leader of 500 Women Scientists, … one lesson from Prabhakar's appointment is that diversity and accomplishment can go hand in hand, Barnes says. 'I think it's important to diversify what a scientist looks like and what a scientist does,' she adds. Prabhakar's appointment does both, and could help 'change the face of science.' As much as anybody, Prabhakar has what it takes to … help the agency move forward, says Margaret Levi, director of the Center for Advanced Study in the Behavioral Sciences at Stanford University in California. 'She's an amazing manager who has dealt with very complex situations in the past.' …Levi says that breaking down silos is one of Prabhakar's talents, and one that will serve her well in her next role. 'She's very engaged with how to make science and technology work to advance public policy on significant societal challenges.' … Lane says that Prabhakar has a unique background that should allow her to step up to multiple challenges that the United States and the Biden administration are facing. Whether the issue is bringing agencies together to confront climate change, rolling out the new health-innovations agency or confronting questions about research raised by a shifting relationship with China, Prabhakar's job will be to help build consensus and marshal the troops in a sprawling government apparatus, he says. 'It takes somebody with the personal skills, and the knowledge and the respect that she will have coming into this job,' Lane says." [Nature, 6/22/22]
Secretary of Health and Human Services Xavier Becerra: "I congratulate President Biden on his choice for the next Director of the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy, Dr. Arati Prabhakar. Dr. Prabhakar's vast experience across government, academia, and the private sector makes her uniquely qualified to carry forward the Administration's strong commitment to advancing science, technology, and equity for all. Her past work at the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency will be of great value as we stand up the Advanced Research Projects Agency for Health (ARPA-H). I urge the Senate to move quickly to confirm her nomination." [Statement, 6/21/22]
Secretary of Transportation Pete Buttigieg: "Dr. Arati Prabakar has spent her career – in government, the private sector, and the nonprofit space – leading scientific and technological innovations that benefit the American people and help address some of our greatest challenges. Her leadership has fostered American technologies to improve transportation, enhance security for our military servicemembers, and fight infectious diseases – to name just some of the breakthroughs she has helped to shape. A widely respected and admired leader, she will be a great colleague and asset to the administration."
Secretary of Energy Jennifer Granholm: "I am so excited to see President Biden's nomination of Dr. Arati Prabhakar as Director of the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy. Dr. Prabhakar's time at the helm of the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency and the National Institute of Standards and Technology show not only her commitment to public service, but her ability to steer federal resources toward impactful innovation. We need Dr. Prabhakar's strong scientific leadership now more than ever to bolster U.S. competitiveness, advance new medicines and treatments, and tackle the climate crisis."
Deputy Secretary of Defense Dr. Kathleen Hicks: "President Biden made a phenomenal choice in nominating Dr. Arati Prabhakar to serve as director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy and his science and technology advisor. As DARPA director, Dr. Prabhakar brought visionary leadership to the task of pioneering cutting-edge, breakthrough technologies for national security – developing and prototyping innovative concepts and capabilities that today are keeping millions of Americans safer and healthier, deterring our strategic competitors and adversaries, and bolstering U.S. forces around the world. She has the perfect mix of government, private-sector, and academic experience to ensure America's science and technology enterprise keeps pushing forward the boundaries of innovation. The President and OSTP will be lucky to have her."
Dr. Sethuraman Panchanathan, Director of the National Science Foundation: "I am delighted by the announcement of Arati Prabhakar's nomination to be OSTP Director. She will bring breadth and depth of experience in research and innovation as well as leadership acumen from her experiences in federal agencies, academia, and industry. Her experience and abilities will be a great asset in addressing a range of global challenges and seizing a number of opportunities." [Tweet, 6/21/22]
Office of the Science and Technology Advisor to the U.S. Secretary of State: "The nomination of Dr. Arati Prabhakar to OSTP Director is exciting! #Science and #technology policy is so important, and she is going to do wonderfully @WHOSTP. Everybody at State is rooting for her! Shoutout to @AlondraNelson46 for serving as Acting OSTP director with aplomb." [Tweet, 6/21/22]
Dr. Frances Arnold, Co-Chair, the President's Council of Advisors on Science and Technology: "I could not be more pleased by the nomination of Arati Prabhakar for this critical role. Her deep experience and leadership skills will contribute to ensuring the United States maintains its preeminent position in science and technology in the coming decades." [Statement, 6/21/22]
Dr. Maria Zuber, Co-Chair, President's Council of Advisors on Science and Technology: "Arati Prabhakar is an inspired choice as President Biden's science advisor, director of OSTP and co-chair of PCAST. She has an extraordinary record of government service, and has provided bold leadership in advancing cutting-edge science and technology of critical importance to the nation. She has the vision and experience needed to execute the President's ambitious science agenda. I look forward to working with her." [Statement, 6/21/22]
Dr. Alondra Nelson, Deputy Assistant to the President and OSTP Deputy Director for Science and Society, Performing the Duties of OSTP Director: "I am absolutely delighted that President Biden intends to nominate the Honorable Dr. Arati Prabhakar to serve as the next director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP), as well as a member of his Cabinet and his chief science advisor. Dr. Prabhakar is the real deal. The first woman to receive a Ph.D. in applied physics from Caltech, she is a pathbreaking scientist, innovator, and leader. Her stellar track record of accomplishment in science and technology policymaking, innovation, and social entrepreneurship includes serving as the youngest Senate-confirmed Director of the National Institute of Standards and Technology – and the first woman and person of color to serve in that role – and later on as Director of DARPA, the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency. Across this distinguished career, Dr. Prabhakar has advanced innovations in science and technology in service of the American public. And, she has built and led collaborative organizational cultures that enable everyone to do their best work. I have had the distinct pleasure of knowing Dr. Prabhakar for several years; I have greatly admired her even longer still. She shares President Biden's unwavering commitment to harnessing the power and possibilities of science and technology for all. She also shares OSTP's values, and will continue to support the work and initiatives of all of its teams – mobilizing the power of nature to address the climate crisis, ending cancer as we know it, steeling our nation against future pandemics, rooting our science and technology in democratic values, ensuring our security, driving clean energy game-changers, and much more. And, she will lead OSTP with a commitment to equity. I am deeply inspired by the President's historic pick, and pending her confirmation by the Senate, I look forward to working closely with Dr. Prabhakar to ensure that, under her visionary leadership, OSTP will continue to deliver on its mission to maximize the benefits of science and technology to advance health, prosperity, security, environmental quality, and justice for all of America." [Statement, 6/21/22]
Dr. Francis Collins, Acting Science Advisor to the President, Acting Co-Chair of the President's Council of Advisors on Science and Technology, and former Director of the National Institutes of Health: "I'm thrilled about the President's decision to nominate Dr. Arati Prabhakar to serve as his science and technology advisor and OSTP Director. Dr. Prabhakar has worked with every facet of America's vibrant research and development ecosystem. She brings the right mix of broad experience across government, industry, and academia; deep scientific knowledge and expertise across many disciplines; a profound appreciation for the value of fundamental research; and visionary leadership to tackle the toughest challenges facing our nation and the world. I can't think of anyone better to help President Biden lead American science and technology into the future, and I hope the Senate will move swiftly on her confirmation." [Statement, 6/21/22]
Dr. Kelvin Droegenmeier, former OSTP Director and Science Advisor to the President (2019-2021): "She clearly is very smart, articulate, a visionary who makes things happen," said… Droegenmeier, who said he didn't know her personally but heard a talk of hers at the National Academy of Sciences "and was quite frankly blown away." Droegenmeier said Prabhakar's "first and most important role is to restore trust and integrity at OSTP, which I have no doubt she can do." [Associated Press, 6/21/22]
Dr. John Holdren, former OSTP Director and Science Advisor to the President (2009-2017): "I have found Arati to be very smart, very principled, and … with excellent leadership qualities. She'd make an excellent OSTP director and science adviser to the president." [Science Magazine, 6/13/22]
Dr. Neal Lane, Former OSTP Director and Science Advisor to the President (1998-2001), and Norm Augustine, Retired Chair and CEO of Lockheed Martin Corporation: "We write to provide our enthusiastic endorsement for the President's nomination of Dr. Arati Prabhakar to be the next Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP) and Science Advisor to the President. Dr. Prabhakar is uniquely qualified to serve in this position, particularly at this time in our Nation's history. Our country is confronted with many important challenges that depend on the health and vitality of our science and technology enterprise. Such issues as international competitiveness, climate change, a clean energy future, and advanced health research all require the kind of leadership and experience Dr. Prabhakar can provide. Dr. Prabhakar has been [previously] confirmed by the Senate… to be Director of the National Institute for Standards and Technology, and [was] Director of the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency. She has worked at the intersection of technology and commercial application and development and most recently worked with private philanthropy to apply solutions-oriented research and development in areas ranging from sustainable energy and public health. These experiences make her uniquely qualified to be the next Director of OSTP and Science Advisor to the President. We urge the Senate to quickly examine her credentials and then overwhelmingly confirm her as soon as possible." [Letter to Senators Schumer, McConnell, Cantwell, and Wicker, 6/21/22]
Dr. Ash Carter, former U.S. Secretary of Defense (2015-2017): "Dr. Prabhakar was a fantastic DARPA director who led the agency at a critical time for our nation's defense. She is a superb and forward-thinking leader who understands the innovation ecosystem throughout the country and the need to attract and retain new and diverse talent to America's science and technology enterprise." [Politico, 6/8/22]
Dr. Marcia McNutt, President of the National Academy of Sciences: "The nomination of Dr. Prabhakar to assume leadership of OSTP and to bring perspectives from science to the Biden cabinet is good news for the nation and great news for the US research establishment. The National Academy of Sciences stands ready to provide whatever assistance she requests to ensure that sound science can inform enlightened policies." [Tweet, 6/21/22]
Dr. Sudip Parikh, CEO of the American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS): "We applaud President Biden's nomination of Arati Prabhakar, Ph.D., to serve as his science advisor and the director of the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy. Dr. Prabhakar, who began her career as a AAAS Science & Technology Policy Fellow, has the right combination of expertise, vision, and rapport to assume the top dual science position as the nation navigates public health challenges, climate change, emerging technologies, and other issues where science plays a critical role. Her previous leadership at DARPA, which led to pioneering work on RNA technology underlying COVID-19 vaccines, will be invaluable as ARPA-H applies the DARPA model to drive biomedical and health breakthroughs that will address diseases affecting a significant number of Americans. If confirmed by the U.S. Senate, her historic appointment as the first woman and person of color to lead OSTP would bring an important voice to equity issues across the scientific enterprise." [Statement, 6/21/22]
Barbara Snyder, President of the American Association of Universities: "I welcome President Biden's nomination of Arati Prabhakar to serve as his lead scientific advisor and as the director of OSTP. As demonstrated by her impeccable work leading the National Institute of Standards and Technology and the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency in past administrations, she clearly understands the crucial government-university partnership that has been at the center of American innovation, economic growth, and national security since the middle of the last century. Beyond her exceptional qualifications, Prabhakar is well-known to AAU and our member institutions, and we have worked hand-in-hand in the past to advance American science and innovation. We look forward to continuing that partnership in her new role. Finally, we at AAU understand that representation in leadership is key to advancing the causes of diversity and equity in scientific fields, and I am so pleased that Prabhakar would be the first woman of color to serve in this highly visible role. I encourage the Senate to move quickly to confirm her nomination." [Statement, 6/21/22]
Peter McPherson, President of the Association of Public and Land-grant Universities (APLU): "APLU and the public university community applaud the nomination of Arati Prabhakar as OSTP Director. Dr. Prabhakar brings a deep well of science policy experience, having led the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency and National Institute of Standards and Technology. Her success at the highest levels of government research agencies and in the private sector also stands as an important example to millions of aspiring scientists from underrepresented backgrounds. We look forward to working closely with Dr. Prabhakar on the administration's many important science policy efforts." [Statement, 6/21/22]
Mary Woolley, President and CEO of Research!America: "We applaud President Biden for nominating Arati Prabhakar, PhD, to serve as Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP). … We believe Dr. Prabhakar will work effectively across the federal government to help ensure science, technology, and innovation can continue to drive economic growth, create good jobs, and address urgent threats to our health and well-being. The American science enterprise and the American public will be well-served by her leadership, and we urge Congress to confirm her nomination as OSTP Director as swiftly as possible." [Statement, 6/21/22]
Bart Gordon, Vice Chair of the Research! America Board, former Congressman from Tennessee and former chair of the House Science Committee: "I had the privilege of working with Dr. Prabhakar when I chaired the House Science Committee, and I believe she is a perfect fit for this vital role. The nation will be well served by her deep understanding of the pivotal role the federal government can play to advance innovation in science and technology." [Statement, 6/21/22] "She has all the background you could ask for, and she's also such a nice person. I'm absolutely delighted with the president's choice." [Science Magazine, 6/13/22] "
Meredith Gibson, CEO of the Association of Women for Science (AWIS): "The Association of Women for Science (AWIS) applauds President Biden's choice… As the director of OSTP and the President's science advisor, Dr. Prabhakar, will be an exceptional role model for women and girls in science. Nominating and confirming excellent leaders, like Dr. Prabhakar, will encourage women to persevere in scientific careers, allowing the nation to benefit from their diverse perspectives and experiences." [Statement, 6/21/22]
Reshma Saujani, founder of Girls Who Code: "Absolutely incredible. Dr. Arati Prabhakar is a highly-respected engineer and applied physicist and would be the first woman, immigrant, and person of color confirmed as the @WhiteHouse science adviser at the Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP)." [Tweet, 6/21/22]
Varun Nikore, Executive Director of AAPI Victory Alliance: "I'm proud to lead AAPI Victory Alliance in congratulating Dr. Arati Prabhakar on this historic nomination. It's incredible to see the President nominate Dr. Prabhakar to be the first woman, first person of color, and the first immigrant to lead OSTP as we observe Immigrant Heritage Month this June. Dr. Prabhakar has been a trailblazer in every aspect of her career, from being the first woman to earn a Ph.D. in applied physics from the California Institute of Technology to being the first woman to lead NIST, the National Institute of Standards and Technology. Our country is only starting to recover from the pandemic, so we know the country is in good hands under her leadership. We applaud the President for continuing to diversify his cabinet with Dr. Prabhakar's nomination. AAPI Victory Alliance has been working with our partners to ensure the Administration upholds values of diversity, equity, and inclusion in staffing the federal government, so we're pleased to see the President respond by nominating the most diverse slate of appointees in history." [Statement, 6/21/22]
Neil Makhija, Executive Director of Indian American Impact: "Indian American Impact is thrilled to learn that President Biden intends to nominate Dr. Arati Prabhakar as Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP). We applaud the President for his historic decision, which uplifts not only the exceptionally qualified Dr. Prabhakar, but all South Asians and Asian Americans who aspire to reach new heights and become leaders within public service and the scientific community. We have no doubt that Dr. Prabhakar, the first woman, Asian American and immigrant to serve as OSTP Director, will bring brilliance, determination and diverse leadership to her historic post as a member of the President's Cabinet. We look forward to celebrating her official nomination and confirmation. Congratulations, Dr. Prabhakar!" [Statement, 6/21/22]
Gregg Orton, National Director of the National Council of Asian Pacific Americans (NCAPA): "Dr. Prabhakar's nomination to lead the White House Office of Science and Technology (OSTP) is both historic and well-deserved. We are especially excited about the prospects of having another Asian American serving at the Cabinet level, while providing a critical community perspective on the issues that OSTP is responsible for. Research equity as well as data equity remain priority issues for the AANHPI community, and based on Dr. Prabhakar's record, she is an outstanding choice. We also thank the Biden Administration for its continued pursuit of diversity throughout the government and look forward to continuing the work together towards this end." [Statement, 6/22/22]
Asian Pacific American Institute for Congressional Studies (APAICS): "Today the White House announced their intent to nominate Dr. Arati Prabhakar to be the next Director of the OSTP. If confirmed, she will be the third Asian American to serve on President Biden's Cabinet, and the first woman, immigrant, or person of color to lead the OSTP." [Tweet, 6/21/2022]
The Asian American Foundation: "Congratulations to Dr. Arati Prabhakar for her historic nomination to serve as Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy. If confirmed to lead OSTP, Prabhakar would become the third Asian American, Native Hawaiian, or Pacific Islander to serve in @POTUS cabinet." [Tweet, 6/22/22]
Asian & Pacific Islander American Vote (APIA Vote): "Dr. Arati Prabhakar will be the FIRST woman, immigrant, or person of color confirmed to head @WHOSTP and THIRD AAPI to serve in@POTUS's cabinet. Congratulations!" [Tweet, 6/22/22]
Patrick Gaspard, President and CEO of the Center for American Progress: "Dr. Prabhakar is the ideal leader to serve as the President's Chief Advisor for Science and Technology. Her work across the private sector, nonprofits, and government equips Dr. Prabhakar for cross cutting challenges, at a moment when the rigorous work of fact-based policy making is more critical than ever, the governance of our tech platforms so clearly impacts the fragility of our democracy, and under the vision of a President who has centered equity in healthcare and climate outcomes. In the midst of the continued climate crisis and the ongoing global pandemic, we need strong leadership from the Office of Science of Technology Policy on spurring thoughtful, ethical innovations that concretely improve people's lives. We are grateful to Dr. Alondra Nelson for her work providing that leadership, and I'm confident that Dr. Prabhakar will do the same." [Statement, 6/21/22]
Randy W. Fiser, CEO of the American Geophysical Union (AGU): "The American Geophysical Union (AGU) is highly pleased to see today's nomination of a permanent candidate for the dual roles of White House Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP) and Science Advisor to the President. … Science is at the intersection of everything. The OSTP needs to operate at peak performance to build the public and private partnerships needed to address the critical challenges facing our nation and world. For the U.S. to fully benefit from science, the OSTP needs a permanent Director and Science Advisor as soon as possible." [Statement, 6/21/22]
Dr. L. Rafael Reif, president of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology: "Arati would be an excellent choice to head OSTP. As a former director of NIST and DARPA, she knows the ways of government well, she is highly respected, and she has proven to be a creative and effective manager of research and of people. She has also devoted the last several years to thinking about the societal impacts of science and technology. She has the skills, insights and connections to be able to handle the job effectively from day one."
Dr. Ángel Cabrera, president of the Georgia Institute of Technology (Georgia Tech): "Given the stakes for our nation, new competitiveness legislation, the importance of interdisciplinary research and translation, it's imperative to have a science director at the helm and I'm glad to see someone like Arati Prabhakar being considered." [Tweet, 6/9/22]
Dr. David J. Skorton, President and CEO of the Association of American Medical Colleges (AAMC) and Dr. Ross McKinney, Jr., Chief Scientific Officer of the AAMC: "The AAMC applauds the nomination of Arati Prabhakar, Ph.D. as President Biden's Science Advisor and director of the OSTP. Dr. Prabhakar's decades of leadership and her multisector experience in government, academia, and the private sector make Dr. Prabhakar an outstanding selection to guide the White House's science priorities at a time when cooperation across the scientific enterprise is more critical than ever. Dr. Prabhakar, a member of the National Academy of Engineering, is an accomplished scientist and admired leader who has served as director of both the National Institute of Standards and Technology and the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA). She has a broad, future-oriented perspective on the interdisciplinary nature of science and technology and their power to transform lives and health. At DARPA, she established the Biological Technologies Office, which later played a role in the development of mRNA vaccines for COVID. She has a deep understanding of how biomedical research and science contribute to life-saving scientific and medical advancements. It is both notable and fitting for the first woman to receive a doctorate in applied physics from the California Institute of Technology to become the first woman to hold the Cabinet-level position of Science Advisor to the President. Dr. Prabhakar is a distinguished leader with a wealth of experience and the right person to join the President's Cabinet and lead the OSTP. The AAMC is proud to support her nomination and looks forward to working with her and the rest of the team at OSTP to further the scientific advancements that promote a healthier future for all." [Statement, 6/21/22]
Dr. Karen E. Knudsen, CEO of the American Cancer Society (ACS) and American Cancer Society Cancer Action Network (ACS CAN): "Dr. Arati Prabhakar is an impressive nominee for director of the White House's Office of Science and Technology Policy. Her nomination to this cabinet-level position is an important step in ensuring that strategy and execution of the President's Cancer Moonshot Initiative continues in earnest and that science continues to play an integral role in the work of this administration. Should she be confirmed, ACS and ACS CAN look forward to working with Dr. Prabhakar and continuing our work with the rest of the staff at OSTP to take meaningful action to end cancer as we know it. By accelerating discovery, improving access to services patients and their families need, and advancing public policy we will change the trajectory of this disease."
Dr. Lisa M. Coussens, President of the American Association for Cancer Research: "Dr. Prabhakar's appointment recognizes the vital importance of scientific innovation and underscores President Biden's commitment to the Advanced Research Projects Agency for Health (ARPA-H), an exciting new initiative to help achieve the goal of 'ending cancer as we know it.' Dr. Prabhakar's extensive experience, including previously leading the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA), will be extremely beneficial as the Administration works to ensure that the most effective aspects from the DARPA model are applied to ARPA-H. We are excited about working with Dr. Prabhakar and the talented staff at OSTP to accelerate the pace of discovery research and translational research, and bring the benefits of such research to cancer patients everywhere." [Statement, 6/21/22]
Ellen Sigal, Chairperson and Founder, Friends of Cancer Research: "Dr. Prabhakar is an extraordinary innovative leader and an excellent choice to lead OSTP – the Senate should move to confirmation swiftly. In the cancer community we are at an exciting and pivotal moment for science and with strong leadership at the White House, we have incredible opportunity to improve outcomes and better the lives of millions of patients."
The Coalition for the Life Sciences: "The CLS looks forward to working with Dr. Arati Prabhakar. She is an excellent choice to lead OSTP." [Tweet, 6/21/2022]
Dr. Olivier Elemento, Director of the Weill-Cornell Englander Institute for Precision Medicine: "Congratulations to Dr Arati Prabhakar for her nomination to be the new Director of the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy. She brings tremendous scientific leadership experience (previous head of DARPA and NIST among other things) to this important position!" [Tweet, 6/22/22]
Dr. Jonathan Foley, climate and environmental scientist and Executive Director of Project Drawdown: "An outstanding choice." [Tweet, 6/14/22]
Thomas Costabile, Executive Director and CEO of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME): "ASME welcomes President Biden's selection of Dr. Arati Prabhakar as the new Director of the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy. Dr. Prabhakar has a long and exemplary track record of leading federal technology policy agencies and engaging with the engineering community to advance U.S. technological competitiveness. Her background in semiconductors and advanced manufacturing will ensure engineering perspectives are presented at the Cabinet level as we work to solve key technology challenges in energy, climate, health, supply chains, and national security. ASME urges the U.S. Senate to confirm her nomination, and we look forward to engaging with her and the rest of the Biden administration on critically important science and engineering challenges." [Tweet, 6/21/22]
William B. Bonvillian, Massachusetts Institute of Technology lecturer and former U.S. Senate science and technology policy advisor: "Not only does Atari deeply understand science and technology, she has been an outstanding practitioner of science policy – and those with both talents are rare. With experience leading science at both DARPA and NIST, as well as in the private sector, she brings absolutely first-class manager skills that will help OSTP. The agency has major defense and non-defense roles, and with a European war on, Arati's defense technology expertise may prove very valuable. And regarding the still ongoing pandemic, she founded the biological technologies office at DARPA, which not long afterwards played an important role in developing mRNA advances. She is a strong leader, but also a thoughtful and considerate one who knows how to energize an operation and get the best out of it. She's a simply terrific appointment."
Henry T. Greely, Professor by courtesy of Genetics, Stanford School of Medicine; Director, Stanford Center for Law and the Biosciences; Director, Stanford Program in Neuroscience and Society; and Chair, Steering Committee of the Center for Biomedical Ethics: "Supposedly Arati Prabhakar is going to be the new Presidential science advisor! A great choice! I know her and think very, very highly of her. Not a bio person by training but knows some & cares about bioscience." [Tweet, 6/14/22]
Alec Stapp, co-founder and co-CEO of the Institute for Progress: "This would be a splendid choice — Arati Prabhakar has the experience and track record we need in a White House science adviser." [Tweet, 6/8/22]
Caleb Watney, co-founder and co-CEO of the Institute for Progress: "Prabhakar is the former head of both DARPA and NIST and is highly respected across the science and technology community. … Prabhakar might be a particularly good candidate for three reasons: 1) As we're trying to get the new ARPA-H off the ground, it would be helpful to have someone with a deep understanding of the DARPA 'special sauce'. We've launched other ARPAs before, but not to the same effect. 2) While at DARPA she helped accelerate the development of rapid vaccine technology platforms which is… very relevant to the important pandemic preparedness work we need OSTP to keep pushing for! 3) For Biden's focus on a Moonshot to defeat cancer, having someone well-rooted in solutions R&D that can delve into the "realm of the barely feasible" seems like a big plus." [Tweet, 2/10/22]
  