
    WASHINGTON, DC – Today, President Barack Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals for key administration posts: David J. Kappos, Under Secretary of Commerce for Intellectual Property and Director of the United States Patent and Trademark Office and Warren F. "Pete" Miller, Jr., Director, Office of Civilian Radioactive Waste Management, Department of Energy.
President Obama said, "The talent, commitment and expertise these two fine individuals possess make them valued additions to our team as we work to keep our nation safe and put us on a path to prosperity. Their decision to serve their country is commendable, and I look forward to working with each of them in the months and years ahead."
President Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals today:
David J. Kappos, Nominee for Under Secretary of Commerce for Intellectual Property and Director of the United States Patent and Trademark Office 
Mr. Kappos is Vice President and Assistant General Counsel, Intellectual Property Law, for IBM Corporation. Based in Armonk, New York, Mr. Kappos directs IBM's Intellectual Property Law function, providing legal counsel over all facets of protecting and licensing IBM's intellectual property assets and leading IBM's engagement of intellectual property law policy issues. In particular, Mr. Kappos is responsible for the management of IBM's patent and trademark portfolios; protecting and licensing intellectual property (patents, copyrights, trademarks, knowhow and technology) worldwide; directing intellectual property law operations relating to the research, services, consulting, computer systems, storage products, semiconductor and technology development, software, marketing and other groups, divisions, and entities within IBM. In addition, Mr. Kappos has responsibility for IP policy and coordination with IBM's litigation and corporate development groups in matters relating to intellectual property. Mr. Kappos serves on the Board of Directors of the American Intellectual Property Law Association, the Intellectual Property Owners Association, and the International Intellectual Property Society. He is also the Vice President of the Intellectual Property Owners Association. He has held various previous leadership positions in intellectual property law associations in Asia and the U.S. He has spoken widely in Asia, Europe, and the U.S. on intellectual property topics. Mr. Kappos received his Bachelor of Science Degree in Electrical and Computer Engineering from the University of California Davis in 1983, and his law degree from the University of California Berkeley in 1990. He joined IBM in 1983 as a Development Engineer and has served as an Intellectual Property Law attorney in IBM's Storage Division and Litigation group, as IP Law Counsel in IBM Software Group, as Assistant General Counsel in IBM Asia/Pacific, IBM Corporate Counsel and as Assistant General Counsel prior to his current position.
Warren F. "Pete" Miller, Jr., Nominee for Director, Office of Civilian Radioactive Waste Management, Department of Energy
Warren F. Miller, Jr., PhD, presently serves as a part time Professor at Texas A&M University and is a resident of Abuquerque, NM. Dr. Miller is originally from Chicago, Illinois. He holds a BS from the United States Military Academy at West Point; is a Viet Nam veteran; and holds a PhD in Nuclear Engineering from Northwestern University. Dr. Miller served for many years as a researcher and administrator at Los Alamos National Laboratory, retiring in 2001. He was elected a Fellow of the American Nuclear Society in 1982. He was elected to membership in the National Academy of Engineering in 1996. President Obama also announced his intention to nominate Mr. Miller for Assistant Secretary for Nuclear Energy at the Department of Energy on June 10, 2009.
  