
    HOUSTON, Texas – U.S. Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas, continues to build out a strong, national organization, today naming veteran Republican consultant Robert Uithoven as Nevada State Director for the Cruz for President Campaign. Nevada currently hosts the first in the West presidential contest, with legislation pending in the Nevada Legislature on whether Nevada's caucus system will change to a primary.
"Nevada is a critical swing-state for our campaign, and with Robert joining our team, we gain one of the hardest working and most respected conservative operatives in the state," stated Ted Cruz. "With Robert's stewardship, we look forward to competing and winning in Nevada – both for the nomination and the general election."
"It is an honor to join Ted Cruz and his presidential campaign team," Uithoven stated. "He is a tested and proven leader when it comes to fighting for the individual liberties of all Americans. Republicans in Nevada are eager to support a courageous leader who will be a champion for our working families, retirees, and veterans. I am anxious to work on behalf of a true reformer, a true patriot ,and a true champion for freedom."
Most recently, Uithoven guided Nevada Attorney General Adam Paul Laxalt to one of the state's most stunning political victories in recent history. Robert has more than twenty years of campaign experience and has served as a political adviser to numerous Republican candidates and elected officials, as well as to many leading job providers in the Silver State.
Uithoven has served as general consultant or campaign manager on many successful political campaigns throughout his career. He served as chief of staff for former U.S. Congressman Jim Gibbons' (R-NV) and managed Gibbons' successful campaign for governor in 2006. Uithoven has been active in the Nevada Republican Party for nearly 25 years, previously serving as its Finance Chairman and as a delegate to the 2008 Republican National Convention in Minneapolis/St. Paul.
Uithoven is the founder and president of j3 STRATEGIES, Ltd., a Nevada-based political and public affairs firm. He resides in Reno, NV, with his wife and three sons. Together, they are active in their school activities, athletics, church, and charitable activities.
  