
    WASHINGTON – Today, President Obama nominated Mark Ericks, Joseph P. Faughnan, Donald Martin O'Keefe, H. Michael Oglesby, Kenneth Runde and Charles T. Weeks II to serve as U.S. Marshals.
"Throughout their careers these individuals have demonstrated an unwavering commitment to justice," said President Obama. "I am grateful for their willingness to serve and protect the American people."
Mark Ericks: Nominee for United States Marshal, Western District of WashingtonMark Ericks a life-long Washington resident, spent nearly 17 years with the Bellevue Police Department and 12 years as the Chief of Police for the City of Bothell, Washington. In 1973, he arrested the "Bellevue Sniper" and in 1990, he was in charge of the investigative team which identified George Russell as the Bellevue serial murderer. Since 2005, Mr. Ericks has served in the Washington State House of Representatives, representing the district covering northern King County and southern Snohomish County. He currently resides in Snohomish, Washington.
Joseph P. Faughnan: Nominee for United States Marshal, District of ConnecticutJoseph Faughnan is currently the Chief of Police for the Town of Clinton, Connecticut, Police Department. Prior to joining the force Mr. Faughnan worked for the Connecticut Department of Public Safety, from 1967 – 1991, rising through the ranks from Patrolman to Major. He received his Bachelor's degree from the University of New Haven in 1977.
Donald Martin O'Keefe: Nominee for United States Marshal, Northern District of CaliforniaDonald O'Keefe is Chief of Police for the Half Moon Bay, California, Police Department, a position he has held since 2007. From 1980 to 2007, Mr. O'Keefe was employed by the San Mateo County Sheriff's Office, where he reached the rank of Captain. In 1999 he received a Master's degree in Public Administration from the University of San Francisco. Mr. O'Keefe received a Bachelor of Science degree from the Notre Dame de Namur University in 1995.
H. Michael Oglesby: Nominee for United States Marshal, Western District of ArkansasMike Oglesby is the Sheriff and Collector for Polk County, Arkansas, a position he has held since 1989. He served as the Justice of the Peace for the Polk County Quorum Court from 1982 to 1989, and was a Deputy Sheriff in Polk County from 1976-1980. He was also a Patrolman with the Mena Police Department in 1976.
Kenneth Runde: Nominee for U.S. Marshal for the Northern District of IowaKenneth Runde is the Sheriff of Dubuque County, Iowa. He joined the Sheriff's Office in 1976 and rose through the ranks from Deputy Sheriff to his current position. He served in the United States Marine Corps from 1972 to 1976. Sheriff Runde graduated with a bachelor's degree from the University of Wisconsin in 1982 and received an associate's degree from Pepperdine University in 1975.
Charles T. Weeks II: Nominee for United States Marshal, Western District of OklahomaCharles Weeks is a Major with the Oklahoma Highway Patrol. He joined the Department in 1985 and worked his way up the ranks including the position of Commander and Executive Secretary. Mr. Weeks received his bachelor of arts degree from Southwestern Oklahoma State University in 1982.
  