
    
John McCain
Media Availability
Miami, FL
June 6, 2008 
John McCain On Barack Obama's Changing Position On The Status Of Jerusalem
QUESTION: "What's your position on whether Jerusalem should be the undivided capital of Israel and what's your reaction to Senator Obama's remarks on that subject this week?" 
JOHN MCCAIN: "I can't react to every comment that Senator Obama makes, because it probably will change as it did on sitting down and talking unconditionally with Ahmadinejad and other dictators. But the point is, Jerusalem is undivided. Jerusalem is the capital. And we should move our embassy to Jerusalem before anything else happens. The subject of Jerusalem itself will be addressed in negotiations by the Israeli government and people."
Watch John McCain Address Senator Obama's Changing Position On Jerusalem 
John McCain On Everglades Restoration And The Water Bill
JOHN MCCAIN: "I'm glad that Senator Feingold and I worked together on that, and I'm glad that Senator McCaskill, who is one of the national co-chairs of the Obama campaign agreed and voted with me. And I'm disappointed again that Senator Obama became a part of the same old system as he did, not only authorizing pork barrel projects, but seeking additional earmarks, which he has to the tune of tens of millions of dollars in the short time that he's been a member of the United States Senate. So they don't get it. They don't get it that the American people are fed up. They're fed up with the waste of their dollars and the out of control spending that's going to come to a halt when I'm President of the United States. My response is: They don't get it. And we spent trillions, trillions that have exceeded our budget and the American peop le unfortunately, future generations are gonna pay."
Watch John McCain On Everglades Restoration 
Rep. Adam Putnam (R-FL): John McCain Was Right To Vote Against Pork-Barrel Spending
MSNBC'S CONTESSA BREWER: "Congressman, here you are from Florida, I know that Senator McCain voted against an Everglades restoration measure, something that, for instance, Governor Charlie Crist from your state strongly supports. Was that a mistake do you think?" 
REP. PUTNAM: "I want to correct that. He voted against the Water Resources Development Act, which is a hodgepodge of every water project across America, including the Everglades. Senator McCain has been an ally to restore the treasure that is the Florida Everglades. But that's an example of wasteful Washington spending, where the House number came back at one place, the Senate number was higher than that, and the so-called Conference compromise was higher than the two of them. There's really no explanation for that other than dropped earmarks put in at the last second. That's why Senator McCain voted against it, and that's why I voted against it."
Watch Rep. Putnam Discuss The Water Bill And Pork-Barrel Spending
  