
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate six individuals to serve in his Administration:
The President intends to nominate Linda Mysliwy Conlin, of New Jersey, to be First Vice President of the Export-Import Bank of the United States, for the remainder of a four-year term expiring January 20, 2009. Ms. Conlin currently serves as a Member of the Board of Directors of the Export-Import Bank of the United States. Prior to this, she served as Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Trade Development. Earlier in her career, she served as Principal Advisor on travel and tourism to New Jersey Governor Christie Todd Whitman. Ms. Conlin received her bachelor's degree from the University of Massachusetts.
The President intends to nominate J. Joseph Grandmaison, of New Hampshire, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Export-Import Bank of the United States, for the remainder of a four-year term expiring January 20, 2009. Mr. Grandmaison currently serves as a Consultant on international trade. Prior to this, he served as a Member of the Board of Directors of the Export-Import Bank of the United States. Earlier in his career, he served as Director of the United States Trade and Development Agency. Mr. Grandmaison received his bachelor's degree from Burdett College.
The President intends to nominate Thomas E. Harvey, of New York, to be Assistant Secretary of Veterans Affairs for Congressional Affairs. Mr. Harvey currently serves as Acting Assistant Secretary of Veterans Affairs for Congressional Affairs. Prior to this, he served as Senior Counsel for the Institute of International Education. Earlier in his career, he served as Chief Counsel and Staff Director for the Senate Committee on Veterans Affairs. Mr. Harvey served as a Major in the United States Army 1966 to 1985; during his service he received a Silver Star and a Purple Heart for his service in the Vietnam War. Mr. Harvey received his bachelor's degree and JD from the University of Notre Dame. He went on to receive his master's degree from New York University.
The President intends to nominate the following individuals to be Members of the Board of Trustees of the Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation, for six-year terms:

  Roger L. Hunt, of Nevada (Federal Court Representative
John E. Kidde, of California (Public Representative)
John Peyton, of Florida (Mayor Representative)

  