
    The United States is committed to working with Brazil to support the "Zero Hunger Project," a comprehensive initiative undertaken by the administration of Brazilian President Luiz Incio Lula da Silva. This anti-poverty initiative encompasses hunger alleviation, nutrition, health, education, and expanding economic opportunity.
ALLEVIATING HUNGER
Information System: The U.S. Department of Agriculture will share information technology to develop a computerized system to track project implementation.
Nutrition and Food distribution: The U.S. Department of Agriculture will share experience and best practices to help design a sustainable nutrition program and food delivery system, identifying target groups and tracking benefits.
PROTECTING AT-RISK YOUTH AND OTHER GROUPS
Protection from Exploitation: The U.S. Department of Labor will support initiatives to combat sexual and labor exploitation of children and adolescents.
Activities will include psychological counseling, family reunification assistance, skills training, and job placement support, encouraging families to keep children in school, and assistance to AIDS orphans.
Health Interventions: The U.S. Agency for International Development and the Department of Health and Human Services' Centers for Disease Control will work to combat the most dangerous health risks in Brazil: HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis, and malaria.
Initiatives will include social marketing, education, patient counseling, and treatment for tuberculosis and malaria.
The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services will work with Brazilian health organizations to improve treatment for HIV/AIDS.
PROMOTING ECONOMIC OPPORTUNITY
Education and Training: The U.S. Agency for International Development will provide training in sectors for which there is a clear demand, especially in information technology and renewable energy, and focus on getting at-risk youths into the formal educational system. The program will offer:


State-of-the-art technical training and assistance in developing the life skills required to succeed in the formal sector;


Access to computers and the Internet; and


An alliance between the private sector, NGOs, and local governments to provide mentoring, on-the-job training, and related skills.


Support to Small and Medium Enterprises (SME): The U.S. Agency for International Development will provide training and market information to owners and employees of SMEs to facilitate increased access to capital and new markets, including foreign trade opportunities.
  