
    SANTA FE, NM - Today, Governor Bill Richardson announced the endorsements of Congressman Mike Doyle (Pennsylvania), Congressman Solomon Ortiz (Texas), Congressman Gene Green (Texas), and Congressman Silvestre Reyes (Texas).
"I am privileged to have the support of such honorable men," said Governor Bill Richardson. "These are outstanding Congressmen who have provided leadership in Congress, and dedicated their careers to serving their constituents and improving our country."
Doyle is currently serving his seventh term in Congress representing the 14th District of Pennsylvania, which includes the city of Pittsburgh as well as communities in the western, southern, and eastern portions of Allegheny County.
Since 2001, Doyle has been a member of the Energy and Commerce Committee where he currently serves as the Vice-Chair of the Telecommunications Subcommittee. Doyle has utilized his seat on the Commerce Committee to move the United States towards energy independence, increasing economic development in part by fostering a better climate for the high-tech community, and preserving and strengthening Social Security and Medicare. Doyle also serves on the House Veterans' Affairs Committee and as the co-chair of the Congressional Caucus on Autism.
"Having known Governor Richardson for many years, I have always been impressed by his experience, ability, and sincere commitment to our country," stated Congressman Doyle. "Our next President has to be prepared to address difficult challenges here at home -- and re-establish our standing abroad. I'm confident that Bill Richardson is the best choice to lead us back in the right direction, and I am proud to endorse his candidacy."
Congressman Ortiz throughout his Congressional career has established a reputation of being a fair-minded advocate who works easily with both Republicans and Democrats when making policy. It was his own reputation as an honest broker that set him apart from others when control of the House shifted to the Republicans in 1994.
Ortiz remains one of the hardest-working Members of Congress, as a senior member of 2 important committees -- including the all-important Chairman of the House Armed Services Readiness Subcommittee -- co-chair of the Border Caucus, co-chair of both the House Depot Caucus and Naval Mine Warfare Caucus, and as Dean of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus and Texas House Democrats.
"Bill Richardson is the best Presidential candidate to work across party lines to solve the very real problems facing our country," said Congressman Ortiz. "I am proud to be supporting a Westerner, who understands and has experience with the issues of energy, water, transportation and land. He can reach many segments of our nation; and he understands our relationship with the rest of the world, a very rare talent."
Congressman Gene Green was first appointed to the powerful House Energy and Commerce Committee in 1996 and currently serves as Vice-Chairman of the Subcommittee on Health. Green serves on the Committee on Foreign Affairs where he is a member of the Subcommittee on the Western Hemisphere andhe is also a member of the Democratic Steering and Policy Committee and serves as an At-Large Whip for Majority Whip Clyburn.
During his terms in the House of Representatives, Congressman Green has been a champion of education, labor, and health issues. He has worked hard to increase the minimum wage, job training services, access to technology and to reform managed care and provide affordable prescription drug benefits to seniors.
"Over the years I have had the opportunity to work with Governor Richardson and see first hand how his leadership has helped not only New Mexico, but our country," said Congressman Green. "Richardson has the proven executive experience and record to be President on day one."
Congressman Silvestre Reyes, now in his sixth term, became the first Hispanic to represent the 16th District of Texas in the U.S. House of Representatives in 1996.
Reyes is a member of the House Armed Services Committee, past Chair of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus (CHC) and is the first Hispanic to Chair the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence. Now a leader on immigration reform and national security, he served for 26 years with the US Border Patrol and is a decorated Vietnam combat veteran.
"I have known Governor Richardson personally for 20 years and he is the most qualified candidate for the Presidency," said Congressman Reyes. "Thanks to the actions of the current Administration, our nation's next President will face many challenges. The American people need someone with Governor Richardson's qualifications, experience and talent to restore our position of strength and leadership in the world."
  