
    Pool Reports by Emily Goodin, Daily Mail 



Sent:
Reports:




June 11, 202111:30

FLOTUS pool report #1 - background on Dr. Biden and Duchess of Cambridge early childhood event today 
Good morning from England.
Dr. Jill Biden and the Duchess of Cambridge will visit Connor Downs Academy in Hayle, Cornwall, today to tour a classroom and hold a round table on early education.
This is the first time the two women have met in person, per the East Wing.
They will visit with four and five year olds, called a reception in Britain but is what Americans call pre-K and kindergarten. They will also see how the children care for animals, including some rather large bunny rabbits.
I’ll be your pooler. Give a shout out with any questions.
Here is background from the East Wing:
At Noon BST, The First Lady and The Duchess of Cambridge will visit a classroom and greet with approximately 30 four-to-five-year-old students. The First Lady and The Duchess of Cambridge will also walk outside where they will be shown by the students how they help care for the animals (bunnies).
The First Lady and The Duchess of Cambridge will then participate in a roundtable with four U.K. early childhood experts who were invited by The Duchess of Cambridge. Three U.S. subject matter experts will also join the roundtable discussion via Zoom.
Participants:
Arrival Greet, School Tour, and Classroom Visit:

The Duchess of Cambridge

Roundtable:

The Duchess of Cambridge
U.K. Experts:

Professor Eamon McCrory, Professor of Developmental Neuroscience and Psychopathology, University College London
Dr Trudi Seneviratne, Registrar, Royal College of Psychiatrists, Adult and Perinatal Psychiatrist & Clinical Director, SLaM
Ed Vainker, CEO of Reach Foundation, Co-founder of Reach Academy Feltham and Reach Hub
Owen Thomas, Head of Programmes at Future Men


U.S. Experts (via Zoom):

Miriam Calderon, Deputy Assistant Secretary for Early Learning, U.S. Department of Education
Miranda Lynch-Smith, Deputy Assistant Secretary for Human Services Policy in the Office of the Assistant Secretary for Planning and Evaluation, U.S. Department of Health and Human Services
Katie Hamm, Deputy Assistant Secretary for Early Childhood Development, Administration for Children and Families, U.S. Department of Health and Human Services






June 11, 202112:37

FLOTUS pool report #2 - arrivals 
FLOTUS and the Duchess arrived separately at about 12:26 BST. The Duchess, in a fuchsia dress, arrived first and greeted Dr. Biden, in a white dress and bright pink blazer.
The two chatted together as they walked toward the school.
After the arrival, the two have about five or ten minutes of private time to chat before going into the classroom for the visit.
A staffer reminded them to put on face masks as they went inside.
"Thank you for reminding us," the duchess said.
Head of School Janice Eddy spoke to the pool ahead of the visit to talk about the academy. It is a trauma informed school meaning they work with students who have experienced trauma in their lives. They are over subscribed (there's a waiting list) and it's state funded. School has outdoor classrooms where children plant vegetables and flowers and work with animals.
The children have been learning about White House so they're aware who the First Lady is.
Here are quotes from Janice:
We are very much about supporting the children not only in terms of that academic attainment and their progress but we're also very, very focused on supporting children as individuals, and in supporting their positive relationships with one another with adults with society and also supporting their mental health.
Here we're very much about nurturing the child as a person.
We have an outside classroom and children can have outdoor lessons, we have a pond. We have an unprepared, fire pits, we've got a fantastic outdoor area that the children can access, and particularly what makes it special is that we have animals. And again those animals are very much about supporting the children just to be in touch with the animals to understand empathy, to learn to care to them to nurture the animals in developing their skills for nurturing as adults, and fitting in with our culture here at corner, all of the animals on rescue animals. So we've got two families of rescued rabbits, and that children care for all children have access to, to the rabbits, and we also have battery hens.
They are quite aware of who's coming. And obviously incredibly excited in the way that a four or five year old can be. Perhaps not completely understanding.
Link to full interview transcript:
https://otter.ai/u/u3H7RGJnXkJDCZQZ4bUvaFUbd9s
More tk...



June 11, 202113:05

FLOTUS pool report #3 - classroom visit 
FLOTUS and the Duchess came in to the classroom wearing face masks and were greeted by silence.
"They've scared to death," FLOTUS joked of the kids.
"It's the quietest class I've ever been to. How old are you?" the Duchess said.
They met the teachers and learned about how the kids were learning about how to make the world a better place. The kids are learning words and sounded them out with FLOTUS.
The Duchess and FLOTUS are seated next to each other but talking to different group of kids. Duchess is asking their names and looking at their drawings. She also helped the kids sound out words.
Kids are reading "Greta and the Giant."
"Do you know this series?" Duchess asked FLOTUS.
"I know Greta of course," FLOTUS said.
They also visited the other table of kids. Dr. Biden helped some with legos. They also watched the kids draw.
Lots of praise from the two of them for the kids.
Dr. Biden answered a question on importance of early childhood education.
"It's very important to the foundation. As a teacher at the upper levels if they don't have a good foundation they fall so far behind. This is amazing to see how far advanced they are."
Children are gathered around three tables with some sitting on the floor. They are not wearing face masks.
There are about 20 kids in here. They are wearing uniforms - girls in blue and white checked dress with navy sweater or navy skirt with white shirt and navy sweaters; boys in blue pants, white shirts and navy sweaters.
Children were very quiet as we waited for FLOTUS and Duchess. And very somber and serious looking. "Smile check," their teacher Dave Masters told them as we waited. "You're do so well and waiting so patiently," he told them.



June 11, 202113:14

FLOTUS pool report #4 - bunnies 
FLOTUS and the Duchess came outside to see the bunnies. Dr. Biden carried a bowl of carrots.
Both the women commented on the large size of the bunny, named Storm.
Dave Masters, the teacher, and four kids were in the rabbit pen with FLOTUS and the Duchess standing on the other side of the fence. FLOTUS handed over the bowl of carrots so the kids could feed Storm.
Duchess asked about the care of the bunnies and if it was relaxing to pet and care for them. FLOTUS and the Duchess also made quiet small talk with one another. Pool was unable to hear but they were giggling.
The outdoor area had several separate rabbit pens. The kids care for them every morning, Masters said.



June 11, 202113:46

FLOTUS pool report #5 - Duchess comments on baby Lilibeth 
The Duchess was asked if she had any wishes for her new niece Lilibeth Diana.
"I wish her all the very best. I can't wait to meet her," she said. "We haven't met her yet. I hope that will be soon."
Asked if she face timed with her.
"No I haven't," she said.



June 11, 202113:56

FLOTUS pool report #6 - roundtable 
The Duchess spoke first at the roundtable after the introductions.
"It's a huge honor to have you in the United Kingdom," she said, thanking Dr. Biden for her interest in early education, a major part of the Duchess' platform. "I'm very much looking forward to the conversation."
Dr. Biden said thanks and expressed her gratitude for being there.
"I met some wonderful teachers and principals and most of all the children, who were so inspiring and so well behaved. I couldn't get over it. And I want to thank the press for covering this because early childhood education is so important to lay the foundation for all of our students. So thank you for having me everybody. It's a very special place," FLOTUS said.
Dr. Biden and the Duchess both took notes during the conversation, which focused on children's mental health and the importance of early education in child development. There were also a lot of discussion about how to get parents involved early on.
"How do we get this information out to parents?," Dr. Biden asked.
Professor Eamon McCrory said that is the challenge they face.
Ed Vainker, CEO of Reach Foundation, told Dr. Biden as a fellow teacher that he and others cheered at having a teacher in the White House.
In closing remarks, FLOTUS said:
"I have a million questions for you. I'll have to give you a call."
More: "I'm sorry it's so short as there's so much to talk about."
More: "Ad an educator myself so much of what you're saying has certainly touched my life in that I taught in a psychiatric hospital for five years. ... I've seen, you know what the children's environment, and what that you know it's negative, the effects that that has and I saw that with all the children that I saw in that psychiatric hospital - the problems that they were dealing with. And, I have to say, I love that you're educating dads and fathers because it's, you know, it's been so long that for the longest time, it was always the mother, right, who was doing the caregiving. But I think one of the things, one of the positive parts of this pandemic, is that now we've seen both of the parents because they've both been home and the fathers are saying, Hey, this is hard work. And then I know things are changing from, you know when our kids were little, but I think that the pandemic has also had a positive effect in that. I think teachers are now working more closely with parents because that relationship had to open up right? because there were so many areas where teachers were helping parents and parents were helping teachers. And so it's just such a fascinating discussion, but I think we're moving in the right direction. And I also wanted to ask about food security and so many things I wanted to ask about, I guess I'll have to just come back."
The Duchess said "I'm the same" when it came to talking about early childhood education.
"It's really about prevention," she said of her involvement in issue saying she hoped it could help prevent addiction and on mental health.
"I'm committed to this for a long time," the Duchess said. "I hope our two countries can continue on this and share data."
Roundtable was taken live by tv pool although pooler is unclear if it aired live.Here is a link to the otter transcript of it: https://otter.ai/u/L_J9mxP5lZCdliRI_WWkDRJ1Nf4



June 11, 202114:06

FLOTUS pool report #7 - departure 
Two students with flowers and Janice Eddy said goodbye to FLOTUS and the Duchess.
Dr. Biden was asked if she asked the Duchess for any advice on meeting the Queen.
She said: "No I didn't. We've been busy. Were you not in that room? We were talking education."
Both women thanked the students for the flowers.
The Duchess thanked the students for having them. She asked them about the bunnies and if they had a good half term.
FLOTUS and Duchess departed separately at about 1:39 pm BST.
Thanks to CNN's Arlette Saenz and NBC's Andrea Mitchell for their invaluable help.
That's a wrap.
Here's the press release from Kensington Palace on the visit for those of you not on that press list:
THE DUCHESS OF CAMBRIDGE AND DR. JILL BIDEN VISIT PRIMARY SCHOOL IN CORNWALL
Friday 11th June, 2021
The Duchess of Cambridge and Dr. Jill Biden, First Lady of the United States, have together visited Connor Downs Academy in Hayle, West Cornwall, and led a roundtable discussion on the importance of early childhood on lifelong outcomes. The visit has taken place during the first day of the G7 Summit, which is being held across this weekend in Cornwall.
The Duchess and Dr. Biden firstly visited the school's Reception Class to hear how its pupils are supported through a bespoke Early Years Foundation Stage (EYFS) curriculum, which uses child-led teaching to help its pupils to develop as independent, confident and successful learners. Her Royal Highness and The First Lady also joined children taking part in a number of classroom activities.
Delivering education to children aged 4-11 years old, Connor Downs Academy is a member of the Aspire Academy Trust family which comprises 28 primary schools across Cornwall. It works to create a caring and challenging environment in which all pupils are encouraged to fulfil their potential. The school recognises and values the importance of nurturing positive relationships and actively supports the mental health and wellbeing of both children and staff.
The Duchess and Dr. Biden then led a roundtable discussion with a number of representatives from the early years sector who have been influential in The Duchess' work in this space. They discussed why early childhood is so important to lifelong outcomes and what can be done to make a difference. The Duchess and The First Lady were joined in the room by:

Professor Eamon McCrory, Professor of Developmental Neuroscience and Psychopathology, University College London;
Dr Trudi Seneviratne OBE, Registrar, Royal College of Psychiatrists, Adult and Perinatal Psychiatrist & Clinical Director, SLaM;
Ed Vainker OBE, CEO of Reach Foundation, Co-founder of Reach Academy Feltham and Reach Hub; and

· Owen Thomas, Head of Programmes at Future Men.
The following experts from the United States participated in the roundtable via video link:

Miriam Calderon, Deputy Assistant Secretary for Early Learning at the U.S. Department of Education;
Miranda Lynch Smith, Deputy Assistant Secretary for Human Services Policy, Office of the Assistant Secretary for Planning and Evaluation, U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; and
Katie Hamm, Deputy Assistant Secretary for Early Childhood Development, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services.

 The importance of providing adequate support for parents and children alike during early childhood, and the positive impact that this can have across society, is something which Her Royal Highness and The First Lady have both gained an understanding of through their respective work.
For over ten years, The Duchess of Cambridge has seen first-hand how the root cause of so many of today's hardest social challenges – from poor mental health and addiction to family breakdown and homelessness – can be traced right back to the earliest years of life. In that time, she has worked with experts and spent time listening to the sector, parents, families and carers about their experience of and work on the early years. Next week, The Duchess will step up her work in this area, with a major announcement outlining how she will elevate the importance of early childhood and continue the conversation on this vital issue.
Through her years as an English professor and former high school teacher and reading specialist, Dr. Biden has witnessed the struggle of students who lacked a solid foundation of early childhood care and education. She, along with President Biden, are committed to increasing opportunities for all children and young people to grow, learn, and gain the skills they need to succeed.




  