
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate five individuals, appoint one individual, designate one individual, and upon confirmation designate one individual to serve in his Administration:
The President intends to nominate Wayne Cartwright Beyer, of New Hampshire, to be a Member of the Federal Labor Relations Authority, for the remainder of a five-year term expiring July 1, 2010. Mr. Beyer currently serves as an Administrative Appeals Judge at the Department of Labor. Prior to this, he served as an Attorney for the Office of the Corporation Counsel. Earlier in his career, he served as Principal Deputy General Counsel for the General Services Administration. Mr. Beyer received his bachelor's degree from Dartmouth College and his master's degree from Harvard University. He went on to receive his JD from Georgetown University.
The President intends to nominate Cesar Benito Cabrera, of Puerto Rico, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Mauritius and to serve concurrently and without additional compensation as Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Seychelles. Mr. Cabrera is currently the President of Rocca Development Corporation with over 25 years of commercial development and business experience. He has served as a Member of the Board of Directors of the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation. He received his bachelor's degree from the University of Puerto Rico in 1971.
The President intends to nominate Robert L. Sumwalt III, of South Carolina, to be a Member of the National Transportation Safety Board, for the remainder of a five-year term expiring December 31, 2006 and an additional five-year term expiring December 31, 2011, and upon confirmation designate Vice Chair. Mr. Sumwalt currently serves as Manager of Aviation for SCANA Corporation. Prior to this, he served as an airline Captain for 24 years for US Airways and was assigned to the Flight Safety Department. He has served as a Pilot for 24 years. Mr. Sumwalt received his bachelor's degree from the University of South Carolina.
The President intends to nominate the following individuals to be Members of the Board of Regents of the Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences, for the remainder of six-year terms expiring May 1, 2011:
Colleen Conway-Welch, of Tennessee
C. Thomas Yarington, Jr., of Washington
The President intends to designate Lieutenant General Ronald L. Burgess, Jr., of Alabama, to be Acting Principal Deputy Director of National Intelligence.
  