
    As I come to the end of this brief visit in Grand Island and Hall County in your wonderful Cornhusker State, I want to say that I've been impressed not only with the courage that the people here have Shown in face of a natural disaster that could have been much more serious as far as human life is concerned, but I also have been impressed with the unselfish nature of the people that has been exhibited in their eagerness to help one another.
There's been a close working coordination between all the people who live here and who had property damaged—the mayor and the city coordinating council that's been appointed by him, Governor Thorne, and the National Guard and all the State agencies. And I believe we've also had an excellent exhibition of leadership by Mr. Tobin, who represents the Federal Emergency Management Administration.
The loss of property and the loss of life is a sobering reminder to us that there is a need for us to work together in a time of challenge. This has been exhibited brilliantly by the attitude of the people in this community.
We have approved immediately when the Governor requested it, an emergency declaration to permit people to survive economically the damage to their property. And more recently, the Governor has asked me to let the Federal Government share on a 75-percent Federal, 25-percent State and local basis the cost of the cleaning up of the debris from the tornado and also the repair of public buildings.
We have a long way to go before the complete repair job is finished. I've talked to several groups informally. I've .expressed my admiration to them for the extreme show of mutual support and help during this first week after the tornadoes hit, and I know that this will be a long, extended, disappointing, and frustrating period for many people. And I trust that this spirit of cooperation and mutual help and unselfishness will continue in the difficult days ahead.
The Federal Government will remain eager to help in any way possible. It's a continuing process for us, and I've assured the mayor and the Governor that I'm available at any time when there is a need for additional attention being given by the Federal Government to the needs here in Grand Island and Hall County. I don't believe that need will arise, but we will not abandon the people here. And my hope and my belief is that in a few months or perhaps years after hard work and continued dedication to one another, that Grand Island and Hall County will be even more beautiful and even more prosperous and even more a delightful place to live than it was before the tornadoes struck.
I'm overwhelmed. To close, I would like to repeat myself: I'm overwhelmed with the sense of courage and dedication that has been shown. It's an inspiration to me as President, and I wish all the people here well, and Godspeed in the days ahead.
Thank you very much.
  