
    Pool Reports by Niels Lesniewski, CQ & Roll Call 



Sent:
Reports:




June 13, 2023 09:44

In-town pool report #1 - brunch lid
Good morning folks --
There's a lid until 12:30 pm today. More later. 


June 13, 2023 13:05

In-town pool report #2
The pool is gathering now for the Oval Office meeting between POTUS and NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg.
And the press briefing is now scheduled to begin at 2 pm. 


June 13, 2023 13:20

In-town pool report #3
Pool entered the Oval Office at 1:15 pm.
POTUS spoke for roughly two minutes before turning to Secretary General, reiterating the U.S. commitment to the defense of all of NATO territory. More to come.
And from the White House:
The President is holding a meeting with Jens Stoltenberg, Secretary General of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO), at the White House to discuss the upcoming NATO Summit in Vilnius, Lithuania.
U.S. Manifest
The President T.H. Antony Blinken, Secretary of State T.H. Jon Finer, Assistant to the President and Principal Deputy National Security Advisor T.H. Julianne Smith, U.S. Permanent Representative to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization T.H. Amanda Sloat, Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for Europe, National Security Council
NATO Manifest
H.E. Jens Stoltenberg, Secretary General of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization Mr. Lorenz Meyer-Minnemann, First Deputy Director of the Private Office of the Secretary General Mr. Thomas Goffus, Assistant Secretary General for Operations Mr. Jahn Jeffrey, Deputy Director of the Private Office to the Secretary General Mr. Dylan White, Deputy Spokesperson 


June 13, 2023 13:24

In-town pool report #4 - no questions
After the Secretary General spoke, the president did not respond to shouted questions and the pool was out by 1:21 pm. 


June 13, 2023 13:33

In-town pool report #5 - POTUS quotes from Oval
As always check against transcript.
POTUS welcomed the Secretary General and said "we see our joint strength in modernizing relationships within NATO, as well as providing assistance to -- defense capabilities to Ukraine."
"We also -- we've strengthened NATO's eastern flank, made it clear we'll defended every inch of NATO territory. I say it again the commitment of the United State to NATO's Article V is rock solid," POTUS said. "At our summit in Lithuania next month, we're going to be building on that momentum. I'm working to ensure that allies spend enough on their defense, the two percent."
Next event here should be the briefing, now scheduled for 2 pm. 


June 13, 2023 15:43

In-town pool report #6 - President of Uruguay
From the White House:
This afternoon, President Biden met with President Luis Lacalle Pou of Uruguay at the White House. 


June 13, 2023 15:45

In-town pool report #7 - lunch lid
White House says there's a lunch lid until 4:45 p.m. 


June 13, 2023 17:05

In-town pool report #8
Gathering now for the chiefs of mission reception, which is scheduled to get underway at 5:15 pm in the East Room.
This event is being pooled for TV and otherwise open to pre-credentialed media. 


June 13, 2023 17:12

In-town pool report #9 - two minutes
Two minute warning for the Chiefs of Mission reception. It should be streaming in the usual places. 


June 13, 2023 17:20

In-town pool report #10
POTUS and Secretary Blinken entered the East Room at 5:14 pm.
Blinken spoke first, introducing POTUS to a standing ovation at 5:17 pm.
And from the White House:
In attendance for the President's remarks at the Chiefs of Mission Reception in the East Room:
Secretary Antony Blinken, Department of State Ambassador Linda Thomas-Greenfield, Representative of the United States to the United Nations Jon Finer, Assistant to the President & Principal Deputy National Security Advisor Liz Sherwood-Randall, Assistant to the President & Homeland Security Advisor Chiefs of Mission of Ambassadorial rank & senior Department of State officials
Speaking Program
Secretary Antony Blinken, Department of State The President 


June 13, 2023 17:35

In-town pool report #11 - POTUS highlights
POTUS spoke again about the US being at "an inflection point" in the context of the world.
"Welcome to the White House the second time in two days," Biden said, thanking the chiefs of mission for the schedule flexibility after the reception was postponed Monday because of the president's root canal.
POTUS said the press had asked if he was unconscious during the dental procedure.
"Unfortunately no, I was wide awake," POTUS said.
"I turned all my notes in," POTUS said of his meetings with Chinese President Xi Jinping, before saying that it was " not a reference to the former president."
Check those quotes against the transcript. The president finished his remarks at 5:35 pm. 


June 13, 2023 17:39

In-town pool report #12 - no comment on Trump
Asked as he was leaving the East Room if would comment on the arrest of the former president, POTUS said "no." 


June 13, 2023 18:02

In-town pool report #13 - dinner lid
A dinner lid has been called until 6:30 pm. 


June 13, 2023 18:42

In-town pool report #14 - gathering again
The pool has been called to gather for the Juneteenth Concert, which is listed as being open press. 


June 13, 2023 19:32

In-town pool report #15 - two minutes
Two minute warning to the Juneteenth concert. 


June 13, 2023 19:59

In-town pool report #16 - attendees and program
Vice President Harris delivered remarks to open the event.
Harris spoke about the establishment of Juneteenth as a national holiday, while highlighting the administration's work.
From the White House:
In attendance for the President's remarks at a Juneteenth Concert on the South Lawn.
The Vice President The Second Gentleman Secretary Debra Haaland, Department of the Interior Secretary Tom Vilsack, Department of Agriculture Ambassador Linda Thomas-Greenfield, U.S. Mission to the United Nations Senator Jack Reed (RI) Senator Bernie Sanders (VT) Rep. Danny K. Davis (IL-07) Rep Gregory Meeks(NY-05h Rep. Andre Carson (IN-07) Rep. Terri Sewell (AL-07) Rep. Lois Frankel (FL-22) Rep. Ann Kuster (NH-02) Rep. Sanford Bishop (GA-02) Rep. Sheila Jackson Lee (TX-18) Rep. Frederica S. Wilson (FL) Rep. Joyce Beatty (OH-03) Rep. Al Green (TX-09) Rep. Stacey Plaskett (USVI-AL) Rep. Steven Horsford (NV-04) Rep. Nikema Williams (GA-05) Rep. Troy Carter (LA-02) Rep. Shontel Brown (OH-11) Rep. Marilyn Strickland (WA-10) Rep. Sheila Cherfilus-McCormick (FL-20) Rep. Valerie Foushee (NC-04) Rep. Lauren Underwood (IL-14) Rep. Jamaal Bowman (NY-16) Rep. Cori Bush (MO-01) Rep. Ilhan Omar (MN-5) Rep. Jasmine Crockett (TX-30) Rep. Maxwell Frost (FL-10) Rep. Jonathan Jackson (IL-1) Rep. Summer Lee (PA-12) Garlin Gilchrist, Lieutenant Governor of Michigan Kwame Raoul, Attorney General of Illinois Aaron Ford, Attorney General of Nevada Lawrence Haygood, Mayor of Tuskegee, Alabama Maryland Speaker of the House Adrienne Jones Tennessee State Senator Raumesh Akbari (District 29) Georgia House Minority Leader James Beverly (District 143) Virginia House Democratic Caucus Chair Charniele Herring Alabama State Representative Laura Hall Arkansas State Representative Vivian Flowers Colorado State Representative Leslie Herrod Florida State Representative Shevrin Jones Georgia State Representative William Mitchell Jr. (District 88 ), Former NBCSL President Indiana State Representative Cherrish Pryor Michigan State Representative Kristian Grant (District 82) Oklahoma State Representative Jason Lowe Pennsylvania State Representative Malcolm Kenyatta (District 181) South Carolina State Representative Ivory Thigpen Tennessee State Representative Harold Love Texas State Representative Toni Rose Rodney Ellis, Commissioner, Harris County, Texas Stephen Holmes, Commissioner of Galveston County, Texas Tommy Calvert, Commissioner of Bexar County, Texas Will Jawando, Commissioner of Montgomery County, Maryland Alisha Bell, Commissioner, Wayne County, MI and National Association of Black County Officials (NOBCO) Leadership Juandalynn Givan, National Organization of Black Elected Legislative Women (NOBEL) Women President Paula Hoisington, National Black Caucus of State Legislators Executive Director Shambulia Gagsden Sams, NOBEL Women Executive Director HBCU Presidents and students, faith leaders, civil rights organization members, civic organization members (including the Divine Nine sororities and fraternities), historians, academics, celebrities, influencers, members of the Biden-Harris Administration, & White House Staff
Pre-Performance: HBCU " Battle of the Bands"
Method Man Morgan State University Marching Band Tennessee State University Marching Band
Concert Performance Schedule:
The Vice President Method Man Fisk Jubilee Singers Hampton University Concert Choir TSU: The Aristocrat of Bands Colman Domingo Audra McDonald Broadway Inspirational Voices Patina Miller Step Afrika! Ledisi Ashley Biden The President  Jennifer Hudson


June 13, 2023 20:46

In-town pool report #17 - update
Ledisi is performing now.
According to the run of show, Ashley Biden is up next, to be followed by POTUS and Jennifer Hudson.
I'll share some photos and maybe video on Twitter @nielslesniewski 


June 13, 2023 21:20

In-town pool report #18 - Lid
After embracing Jennifer Hudson and having a private conversation with her, POTUS spoke briefly again to the crowd saying he wanted to relay what he had told Hudson. POTUS was battling back tears as he discussed the importance of the Black Church and his time growing up in Claymont, Del.
POTUS left the stage at 9:10 pm. And we're back in the White House with a lid as of 9:16 pm. Have a good evening everyone. 




Pool Reports below by Beatriz Pascual Macías, Efe News 



Sent:
Reports:




June 13, 2023 11:58

Foreign Pool Report #1 - Background Ahead of POTUS Meeting with NATO Secretary General
Hi!
I will be your foreign pooler for the meeting between US President Joe Biden and NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg. The meeting is scheduled for 1.00 PM. Stoltenberg will make a stop at the stakeout after the meeting.
Meetings/calls: The meeting between POTUS and Stoltenberg, initially scheduled for yesterday at 3:15 PM, was rescheduled for today due to the President's need for a root canal.
This will be the fourth meeting between the two leaders at the White House since President Biden's inauguration in January 2021. The first meeting took place in June 2021, with the goal of preparing for the NATO Summit in Brussels. The second meeting occurred in October 2021, shortly after the US withdrawal from Afghanistan in August and the announcement of the AUKUS partnership in September. The third meeting at the White House was held in June 2022, prior to the NATO Summit in Madrid.
In addition to their White House meetings, both leaders have also met in Brussels and have encountered each other at numerous NATO gatherings.
Schedule: Stoltenberg met today at 11:00 AM with Secretary Blinken at the State Department. He also has a meeting scheduled on the Hill today with the members of the Senate NATO Observer Group (SNOG). The Senate NATO Observer Group, which was re-established in 2018, is co-chaired by U.S. Senators Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH) and Thom Tillis (R-NC).
Priorities: At the forefront of the agenda will be preparations for the upcoming NATO Summit, scheduled to be held in Vilnius, Lithuania on July 11 and 12. Stoltenberg has previously stated that he expects allies to agree on multi-year package of assistance to help Ukrainians transition from Soviet-era to NATO standards. Another crucial objective for Stoltenberg during the summit is bolstering the Alliance's deterrence and defense capabilities with new defense plans, more troops at higher readiness, and stronger command and control structures.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy has been invited to attend the NATO Summit, as have the leaders of four Indo-Pacific NATO partners: Australia, Japan, New Zealand, and South Korea. Additionally, it is expected that EU leadership will participate in one of the sessions.
Stoltenberg has also expressed an interest in a renewed commitment from NATO members to increase defense spending with 2% of GDP as a minimum. Furthermore, the White House mentioned in a statement the president's interest in building upon the 2014 Wales Summit defense investment pledge, which aimed to ensure that countries spending less than 2% would "aim to move towards the 2% guideline within a decade."
Another issue that could arise (though it has not been mentioned by either the US or NATO side) is the succession of Stoltenberg, whose current mandate as NATO chief is set to end on September 30. When asked yesterday during the briefing if POTUS would ask Stoltenberg to stay on for another term, NSC Coordinator for Strategic Communications John Kirby responded: "I'm not going to get ahead of the President's decision-making regarding the next Secretary General." Kirby said that the White House is "grateful" for Stoltenberg's leadership and considered that he has done a "superb job," leading the Alliance through a "very critical time" with the war in Ukraine.
Delegation (according to NATO):

First Deputy Director of the Private Office, Lorenz Meyer-Minnemann
Assistant Secretary General for Operations, Tom Goffus
Deputy Director of the Private Office, Jahn Jeffrey
NATO Deputy Spokesperson, Dylan White
Secretary General's Special Advisor on Strategic Communications, Sissel Kruse Larsen
Secretary General's Military Assistant, Brigadier General Gjermund Eide.

 Bio: Stoltenberg, 64, became NATO Secretary General in October 2014. His tenure has already been extended three times. His mandate was due to expire on September 30, 2022, but it was extended for an extra year due to the war in Ukraine. As a result, he had to postpone his appointment as the central bank chief in his native Norway.
He served as the Prime Minister of Norway from 2000 to 2001 and from 2005 to 2013. During his time in office, he led the country through the terrorist attacks that killed 77 people in Oslo and Utøya on July 22, 2011. In response, he urged for "more democracy, more openness, and more humanity, but never naïveté."
He was the leader of the Labour Party in Norway from 2002 to 2014. Additionally, he served as the Minister of Trade and Energy (1993–1996) and the Minister of Finance (1996–1997) under Prime Ministers Gro Harlem Brundtland and Thorbjørn Jagland.
As a curiosity, Stoltenberg entered politics after working as a journalist. From 1979 to 1981, he wrote for the daily newspaper Arbeiderbladet. 


June 13, 2023 13:31

Foreign Pool Report #2 - Quotes NATO Secretary General
When the pool entered, POTUS and Stoltenberg were seated next to each other.
Stoltenberg thanked POTUS for the new package of military aid to Ukraine announced today. He talked about the offensive launched by the Ukranians and said that they "are making progress." "The more land the Ukrainians are able to liberate, the stronger hand they will have at the negotiating table," he said.
Stoltenberg considered that the invasion launched by Russia is not only a war against Ukraine, but "against free people everywhere." If President Putin wins, he argued, then the world would be "more dangerous" because it will embolden other countries, "including China."
Neither leader answered questions from the pool.
Please check the quotes against the transcript. I will send fuller quotes momentarily. 


June 13, 2023 13:47

Foreign Pool Report #3 - Fuller quotes NATO Secretary General
Please see fuller quotes from NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg. As always, please check against the official transcript.
"Thank you for your leadership for your strong personal commitment to the transatlantic bond, to Europe and North America standing together. And let me also thank the US Congress and the people of America for their strong support to Ukraine."
On the new package of military aid to Ukraine and the offensive: "You just made a new announcement of additional US support, and that is something which is very much welcomed. European Allies and Canada are also doing their part, with tens of billions in military and economic support for Ukraine. And the support that we are providing together to Ukraine is now making a difference on the battlefield as we speak, because the offensive is launched and Ukrainians are making progress. It's still early days, but what we do know is that the more land Ukrainians are able to liberate, the stronger hand they will have at the negotiating table."
On the implications of the Russian invasion for the world and the effect it could have emboldening China: "We also have realized that Russia was brutal invasion of Ukraine was not only an attack on Ukraine, but also on our core values, and on free people everywhere. And therefore, President Putin must not win this war because that will not only be a tragedy for Ukrainians, but it will also make the world more dangerous. It will send a message to authoritarian leaders all over the world, also in China that when they use military force, they get what they want. And we will then become more vulnerable. It is always in our security interest to support Ukraine."
On the NATO summit next month in Vilnius, Stoltenberg said that the objective is "to sustain and step up" the Alliance's support of Ukraine. He mentioned a "new commitment to invest more in defense." "I expect others to agree that 2% of GDP for defense has to be a minimum of what allies have to invest in our shared security."
On Sweden: "We all look forward to welcoming Sweden as a full pledged member of the alliance as soon as possible. So once again, Mr. President, thank you for your leadership. Thank you for your strong commitment. And I look forward to welcoming you to the NATO Summit." 


June 13, 2023 14:29

Foreign Pool Report #4- NATO secretary general at the stakeout location
The NATO Secretary General briefly spoke at the stakeout location, delivering remarks similar to those made at the Oval Office.
Stoltenberg mentioned his discussion with Biden regarding Ukraine. "The offensive is challenging," he stated, emphasizing the need for NATO's assistance.
Stoltenberg also discussed burden-sharing with Biden, reiterating his call for allies to commit to a minimum of 2% of GDP in defense spending.
As Stoltenberg explained, he also engaged in a conversation with Biden about Sweden. Stoltenberg expressed his desire for Sweden to become a member of the alliance "as soon as possible."


June 13, 2023 14:45

Foreign Pool Report #5- NATO Secretary did not take questions
Stoltenberg did not take questions.
So we did not have a chance to ask him if he would be willing to stay at NATO as secretary general or who may replace him later this year.
He only talked for 3 minutes. 



  