
    NOMINATIONS SENT TO THE SENATE:
Daniel Z. Epstein, of Maryland, to be a Judge of the United States Court of Federal Claims for a term of fifteen years, vice Edward J. Damich, term expired.
Anthony F. Godfrey, of Virginia, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Serbia.
Michael Graham, of Kansas, to be a Member of the National Transportation Safety Board for a term expiring December 31, 2025. (Reappointment)
Matthew Keenan, of Kansas, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Legal Services Corporation for a term expiring July 13, 2020, vice Harry James Frankyn Korrell III, term expired.
John Fitzgerald Kness, of Illinois, to be United States District Judge for the Northern District of Illinois, vice Samuel Der-Yeghiayan, retired.
Katherine Andrea Lemos, of California, to be a Member of the Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board for a term of five years, vice Mark A. Griffon, resigned.
Mary Beth Leonard, of Massachusetts, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Federal Republic of Nigeria.
W. Stephen Muldrow, of Puerto Rico, to be United States Attorney for the District of Puerto Rico for the term of four years, vice Humberto S. Garcia, resigned.
Herro Mustafa, of California, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Bulgaria.
Halil Suleyman Ozerden, of Mississippi, to be United States Circuit Judge for the Fifth Circuit, vice E. Grady Jolly, retired.
Eleni Maria Roumel, of Maryland, to be a Judge of the United States Court of Federal Claims for a term of fifteen years, vice Mary Ellen Coster Williams, term expired.
Leslie Meredith Tsou, of Virginia, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Sultanate of Oman.
Justin Reed Walker, of Kentucky, to be United States District Judge for the Western District of Kentucky, vice Joseph H. McKinley, Jr., retired.
WITHDRAWAL SENT TO THE SENATE:
Robert C. Tapella, of Virginia, to be Director of the Government Publishing Office, vice Davita Vance-Cooks, which was sent to the Senate on January 16, 2019.
  