
    President Donald J. Trump today announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key positions in his Administration:
Brenda Burman of Arizona to be Commissioner of Reclamation, Department of the Interior. Ms. Burman is currently Director of Water Strategy at the Salt River Project, which operates one of the original Reclamation projects approved in 1903. Ms. Burman has worked for nearly 20 years on western water matters including Tribal water settlements, Colorado River, and other river basin issues. Under the George W. Bush Administration, Ms. Burman served as Deputy Commissioner, the number two position at Reclamation, before becoming Deputy Assistant Secretary for Water and Science. Ms. Burman holds a J.D. from the University of Arizona and a B.A. from Kenyon College.
Peter B. Davidson of Virginia to be General Counsel, Department of Commerce. Mr. Davidson recently served as Senior Vice President for Congressional Relations at Verizon Communications, and prior to that, as General Counsel to the United States Trade Representative. He has also served as Vice President for Congressional Relations at USWEST and Qwest, General Counsel and Policy Director to the Majority Leader of the House of Representatives, Attorney-advisor in the Office of Legal Counsel of the Department of Justice, director of congressional and media relations at the United States Information Agency, staff to Representatives Dick Armey and Bill Frenzel, and law clerk on the United States Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit. Mr. Davidson has degrees from Carleton College and The University of Virginia School of Law, where he served as Notes Editor on the Law Review. He was raised in Minnesota and northern Wisconsin and currently resides in Virginia with his wife Kari, and they have three children: Madeleine, Sophie, and Björn.
Douglas W. Domenech of Virginia to be an Assistant Secretary of the Interior, Insular Affairs. Mr. Domenech currently serves as Senior Advisor to the Secretary of the Interior. Previously he was the Secretary of Natural Resources for the Commonwealth of Virginia, overseeing six state environmental, recreation, and historic resource agencies. He also previously worked for the Forest Resources Association. During the George W. Bush Administration, Domenech served at the Interior Department as White House Liaison and Deputy Chief of Staff to Secretaries Gale Norton and Dirk Kempthorne. In addition, he served as the Acting Deputy Assistant Secretary for Insular Affairs. Mr. Domenech currently serves as the Secretary's appointee to the Advisory Council of the Conservation Trust of Puerto Rico. His family is from Puerto Rico, and he holds a B.S. in Forestry and Wildlife Management from Virginia Tech University. He is married to Jeanne Domenech and they reside in Alexandria, Virginia.
Jason Kearns of Colorado to be a Commissioner of the United States International Trade Commission for the remainder of a 9 year term expiring December 16, 2024. Mr. Kearns currently serves as Chief International Trade Counsel (Democratic Staff) to the Committee on Ways and Means in the House of Representatives. In that position, he advises Members of Congress on legislation concerning trade and on oversight issues involving the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative and other agencies involved in international trade policy and regulation. Before that, he served for three years in the Office of the General Counsel to the U.S. Trade Representative. From 2000 through 2003, Mr. Kearns worked in the international trade group of the law firm, WilmerHale. Mr. Kearns holds a M.P.P. from the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University, a J.D. from the University of Pennsylvania, and a B.A. from the University of Denver. He is married to Lindy Arnof Kearns and they have three children.
  