
    Today, Biden for President announced key staff hires in Wisconsin, including former staff for Senator Tammy Baldwin, Governor Tony Evers, and Congresswoman Gwen Moore. Today's hires reflect the diversity of the state and the campaign's commitment to amplifying the voices of Wisconsinites, both urban and rural.
Danielle Melfi, Wisconsin State DirectorMelfi most recently served in Governor Evers' administration as the Assistant Secretary for the Wisconsin Department of Children and Families. She was the Director of Political Engagement for Senator Tammy Baldwin's 2018 campaign and the Early Vote Director for the 2016 Wisconsin Coordinated Campaign.
Scott Spector, Wisconsin Senior AdvisorScott Spector has more than two decades of experience working with nonprofits and running campaigns in Wisconsin and across the country. In 2018, Scott managed Senator Tammy Baldwin's 10 point reelection campaign, one of the largest margins of victory in Wisconsin in the past 20 years. Prior to that Scott served as the Executive Director of Wisconsin Progress, a nonprofit candidate recruitment and training organization. Over his five years running the organization, Wisconsin Progress recruited and trained hundreds of candidates for local and state legislative office in every corner of the state. Scott has managed some of the largest and most successful Get Out the Vote efforts in Wisconsin.
Garren Randolph, Wisconsin Deputy State DirectorRandolph will be joining the Biden team from the Democratic Party of Wisconsin where he currently serves as the Political Director. He previously served as Political Director for Governor Tony Evers, and the campaign manager for Milwaukee County Executive David Crowley and Milwaukee County Sheriff Earnell Lucas.
Shirley Ellis, Wisconsin Strategic AdvisorFollowing the Democratic National Convention, Shirley Ellis will serve as Strategic Advisor. Shirley is a highly respected political operative in Milwaukee having worked for Congresswoman Gwen Moore for nearly 3 decades. She oversees Rep. Moore's district staff and operations. She brings her deep political network experience and management skills to the team. Ellis will be joining the Biden team upon completion of the Democratic Convention in Milwaukee, where she currently serves as an advisor for the DNCC.
  