
    Download PDF
(New York, NY) June 26, 2015- Today, Donald J. Trump was endorsed by New Hampshire State Representative Stephen Stepanek. Mr. Stepanek joins Mr. Trump's robust New Hampshire leadership team and will work with his campaign to continue to share Mr. Trump's message, which is resonating throughout the Granite State.
Mr. Trump said, "Stephen is a great addition to our New Hampshire leadership team and I am proud to have his endorsement for the Republican presidential primary nomination. He understands what is at stake with our economy and will be an asset as we continue to solidify our position at the top of the field, both in New Hampshire and nationally."
Mr. Stepanek is a former Amherst Selectman, who served seven years as a member of the Hillsborough County Executive Committee. He is also a six year member of the New Hampshire Supreme Court Professional Conduct Committee, former four term State Representative serving the Citizens of Amherst, Chairman of the Granite State Tax Payers Association, Deputy Majority Leader of New Hampshire House of Representatives and Chairman of the House of Representatives Ways and Means Committee.
Mr. Stepanek added, "Mr. Trump is a proven leader with a record of success and has the mindset to get our economy thriving and our country back on track. I'm proud to endorse Mr. Trump's candidacy for President of the United States and look forward to working with the campaign team to continue to reach New Hampshire voters."
In addition to the leadership team, with representatives from all ten counties in New Hampshire, Mr. Trump has four full-time staffers in New Hampshire and an office based in Manchester, which daughter Ivanka Trump officially opened Wednesday with a packed house of supporters on hand.
Three polls released this week show Mr. Trump in second place including the New Hampshire specific CNN/WMUR released yesterday, the Suffolk University poll released on June 23 and the latest national poll conducted by Fox News on June 24.
Mr. Trump continues to visit New Hampshire regularly where he has been met with an overwhelmingly positive response when speaking to record crowds. Mr. Trump is expected to return to New Hampshire on June 30th.
Press Contact:
Hope Hicks- 203-273-0226
[email protected]
  