
    "When rising unemployment prompts the president to say the private sector is 'doing fine,' it's obvious something's wrong. Twenty-three million Americans are struggling for work in the Obama economy, and they certainly aren't 'doing fine.' After nearly four years of outdated liberal policies that have failed to get our economy moving again, Americans have run out of patience – and President Obama is running out of time." –Andrea Saul, Romney Campaign Spokesperson
View The New Romney For President Web Video: "Jolt"
Who's "Doing Fine" In The Obama Economy? Not The 23 Million Americans Struggling For Work:
President Obama's Advisers Predicted The Stimulus Would Lower Unemployment To 6% Today – But It Remains Above 8%. (Christina Romer and Jared Bernstein, "The Job Impact Of The American Recovery And Reinvestment Plan," 1/9/09)
Under President Obama, The Nation Has Lost 552,000 Jobs. (Bureau Of Labor Statistics, www.bls.gov, 6/4/12)
More Than Twenty-Three Million Americans Are Unemployed, Underemployed, Or Have Stopped Looking For Work. (Bureau Of Labor Statistics, www.bls.gov, 6/4/12)
Last Month, "The Nation's Jobs Picture Dimmed" With Unemployment Increasing To 8.2%. "The nation's jobs picture dimmed in May as employers added just 69,000 jobs and the unemployment rate ticked up to 8.2 percent, a continuation of a long, slow employment recovery that began 33 months ago." (Susanna Kim, "May Unemployment Rises To 8.2 Pct.," ABC News, 6/1/12)
"The Economy Added Only 69,000 Jobs In May, A Result Much Worse Than Expected That Will Heighten Fears The Economy Is Sliding Back." (Vicki Needham and Ian Swanson, "Bleak Labor Report Finds Economy Added 69,000 Jobs In May," The Hill, 6/1/12)
The Associated Press: "The Dismal Jobs Figures Could Fan Fears That The Economy Is Sputtering." "U.S. employers created 69,000 jobs in May, the fewest in a year, and the unemployment rate ticked up. The dismal jobs figures could fan fears that the economy is sputtering." (Christopher Rugaber, "U.S. Employers Added 69,000 Jobs In May As The Unemployment Rate Rose To 8.2 Percent," The Associated Press, 6/1/12)
Middle-Class Americans Facing Foreclosures, Falling Incomes, And Skyrocketing Expenses Also Aren't "Doing Fine" In The Obama Economy:
Since President Obama Took Office, Nearly 3 Million Homes Have Been Lost To Foreclosure. (Julie Schmit, "What Went Wrong With Foreclosure Aid Programs?," USA Today, 12/12/11; CoreLogic Webiste, www.corelogic.com, Accessed 6/10/12)
Approximately 3 Million More Homes Are Either "Seriously Delinquent On Mortgages Or In Foreclosure." "There are currently more than 3 million homeowners either seriously delinquent on mortgages or in foreclosure, and that looming inventory has been one of the biggest drags on home sales prices." (Chris Isidore, "Mortgage Deal Means More Foreclosures," CNN Money, 2/10/12)
Under President Obama, Gas Prices Have Nearly Doubled From The Nationwide Average Of $1.85 Per Gallon When He Was Sworn Into Office To $3.61 Per Gallon Today. (U.S. Energy Information Administration, www.eia.gov, Accessed 6/10/12)
Since President Obama Took Office, Median Household Income Has Declined By $4,300. "Yet real median household income in March was down $4,300 since Obama took office in January 2009 and down $2,900 since the June 2009 start of the economic recovery, according to an analysis of census data by Sentier Research, an economic- consulting firm in Annapolis, Maryland." (Mike Dorning, "Obama Fails To Stem Middle-Class Slide He Blamed On Bush," Bloomberg, 4/30/12)
Obamacare Has Made Health Care "Less Affordable" And Has Caused "Insurance Premiums To Rise." "At the moment, the new law is making health care slightly less affordable. Independent health care experts say the law has caused some insurance premiums to rise. As we wrote in October, the new law has caused about a 1 percent to 3 percent increase in health insurance premiums for employer-sponsored family plans because of requirements for increased benefits. Last year's premium increases cast even more doubt on another promise the president has made - that the health care law would 'lower premiums by up to $2,500 for a typical family per year.'" (D'Angelo Gore, "Promises, Promises," FactCheck.org, 1/4/12)
  