
    The President today declared a major disaster exists in the Commonwealth of Kentucky and ordered Federal aid to supplement Commonwealth and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms, tornadoes, flooding, and mudslides beginning on May 26, 2004, and continuing.
The President's action makes Federal funding available to affected individuals in the counties of Bell, Bourbon, Boyle, Breathitt, Breckinridge, Bullitt, Butler, Caldwell, Carroll, Casey, Christian, Clark, Clay, Crittenden, Edmonson, Elliott, Estill, Fayette, Floyd, Franklin, Garrard, Grayson, Hardin, Harlan, Hart, Henderson, Henry, Hopkins, Jefferson, Jessamine, Johnson, Knott, Knox, Laurel, Lawrence, Lee, Leslie, Letcher, Lincoln, Madison, Magoffin, Martin, McLean, Menifee, Montgomery, Morgan, Muhlenberg, Ohio, Oldham, Owen, Owsley, Perry, Pike, Powell, Pulaski, Rockcastle, Rowan, Scott, Shelby, Spencer, Trimble, Union, Webster, Whitely, Wolfe, and Woodford.
Assistance can include grants for temporary housing and home repairs, low-cost loans to cover uninsured property losses, and other programs to help individuals and business owners recover from the effects of the disaster.
Federal funding also is available to Commonwealth and eligible local governments and certain private nonprofit organizations on a cost-sharing basis for the repair or replacement of facilities damaged by the severe storms, tornadoes, flooding, and mudslides in the counties of Clay, Daviess, Floyd, Grayson, Henry, Johnson, Knox, Leslie, Magoffin, Martin, Morgan, Oldham, Owsley, Perry, Pike, Powell, and Webster.
Federal funding is also available on a cost-share basis for hazard mitigation measures.
Representing the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), Michael D. Brown, Under Secretary for Emergency Preparedness and Response, Department of Homeland Security, named Michael E. Bolch as the Federal Coordinating Officer for Federal recovery operations in the affected area.
The Agency said additional designations may be made at a later date if requested by the Commonwealth and warranted by the results of further damage assessments.
The Agency said that residents and business owners who sustained losses in the designated counties can begin applying for assistance tomorrow by calling 1-800-621-FEMA(3362), or 1-800-462-7585 (TTY) for the hearing and speech impaired. The toll-free telephone numbers will operate from 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. seven days a week until further notice.
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: FEMA (202) 646-4600.
  