
    A Rick Perry Comeback Is Inevitable
By Craig Robinson
The Iowa Republican
June 10, 2015
Click Here To Read The Full Article
As former Texas Governor Rick Perry officially launched his 2016 presidential campaign last week, the question being pondered by most people is whether or not he will get a second chance. It's a question that's been asked ever since Perry started making frequent trips to Iowa following the 2012 election cycle.
As the 2016 Republican presidential field began to take shape, former Hewlett-Packard CEO Carly Fiorina pleasantly surprised many Iowa Republicans. And while Fiorina is getting a lot of favorable reviews, the prime candidate who political pundits and observers should be keeping an eye on in Iowa is Perry. No candidate has worked the state more aggressively since 2012, and while Iowa has a history of rewarding hard work and determination, the tough lessons Perry learned in 2012 have made him a better candidate this time around.
(...)
Time is something Perry has had since leaving office. He's invested that time heavily in Iowa, and now we are beginning to see the results of his labors. Late last week, the Perry campaign announced that Dr. Sam Clovis, a popular conservative activist from northwest Iowa, had signed on to chair Perry's Iowa campaign. Clovis, who made an unsuccessful bid for the Republican nomination for the open U.S. Senate seat in 2014, surprised many by finishing in second place in the primary. Clovis' U.S. Senate campaign was overwhelmingly powered by conservative grassroots activists, the kind of people who are absolutely crucial in a Republican caucus campaign.
(...)
Clovis is someone who you would expect to see supporting Rick Santorum, who he backed early in 2012, or a candidate like Texas Senator Ted Cruz. Yet Perry sealed the deal, and in doing so, got the support of a guy who can vouch for him in conservative northwest Iowa and beyond.
Perry's campaign event in Perry on Saturday morning also exhibited the organizational prowess of the campaign he's built in Iowa and the appeal he still has as a presidential candidate. Wisconsin Governor Scott Walker got a lot of attention by riding with Senator Joni Ernst to her first annual Roast and Ride, but all he had to do was show up and get on a bike. The Perry campaign organized a ride of their own, and in doing so, raised money for a local charity that provides service dogs for wounded veterans.
Click Here To Read The Full Article
  