
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate three individuals and designate one individual to serve in his administration.
The President intends to nominate Michael Young of Pennsylvania, to be a Member of the Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission, for the remainder of a six-year term expiring August 30, 2008. Mr. Young currently serves as Director of Regulatory Affairs for the Pennsylvania Coal Association. Previously he served as a Trial Lawyer for Civil Litigation with McElwee and McElwee, a North Carolina law-firm. Earlier in his career, Mr. Young served as an Officer in the United States Air Force and as a Legislative Correspondent for U.S. Representative Nick J. Rahall, II. He earned his bachelor's degree from West Virginia University and his J.D. from Wake Forest University.
The President intends to nominate Pamela Jones Harbour of New York, to be a Commissioner of the Federal Trade Commission, for the remainder of a seven-year term expiring September 25, 2009. Ms. Harbour currently is a Partner with Kaye Scholer, LLP. Previously, Ms. Harbour served as Assistant First Deputy to Attorney General Eliot Spitzer. Prior to this position, she served as New York State Deputy Attorney General and Chief of the Public Advocacy Division. Earlier in her career she served as Assistant Counsel to the New York State Department of Transportation and General Counsel to the New York State Public Transportation Safety Board. Ms. Harbour earned her bachelor's degree from the Indiana University School of Music and her J.D. from the Indiana University School of Law.
The President intends to nominate Thomas J. Curry of Massachusetts, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, for a six-year term expiring October 3, 2006. Mr. Curry currently serves as Commissioner of Banks for the Massachusetts Division of Banks. Previously, he served as First Deputy Commissioner of Banks and as Acting Commissioner of Banks. Earlier in his career, Mr. Curry served as Assistant General Counsel for the Massachusetts Division of Banks and as an Attorney with the Massachusetts Secretary of State. He earned his bachelor's degree from Manhattan College and his J.D. from the New England School of Law.
The President intends to designate Stephen Eric Benson of Virginia, to be Acting Assistant Secretary of Veterans Affairs (Human Resources and Administration). Mr. Benson currently serves as Senior Advisor to the Deputy Secretary at the Department of Veterans Affairs, where he also previously served as Acting Under Secretary for Memorial Affairs. Earlier in his career, Mr. Benson served as Director of the Aviation Officer Distribution Division, Navy Personnel Command. He earned his bachelor's degree from the Oklahoma State University, his first master's degree from Salve Regina College, and his second master's degree from the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy.
  