
    Boston, Massachusetts – As Senator John Edwards visits Boston today to share his bold plans for change with supporters at a "Small Change for Big Change" grassroots fundraiser, prominent Massachusetts Democrats endorsed Edwards for president. More than 30 Democrats, including several state representatives, are supporting Edwards as the best candidate to change our country and build an America where every person has the opportunity to succeed.
Former Massachusetts Attorney General Scott Harshbarger endorsed Edwards saying, "Most people agree with me that this year there are some very good choices to be the Democratic nominee for president. I—and the other elected and politically experienced people joining with me today—have concluded, however, that there is one truly exceptional choice among the candidates. John Edwards brings to this race the compassion, experience, integrity and vision to lift our nation from the failure of the past six years to truly become this century's first great American leader. And I and the others who join me in supporting him are committed to doing all we can to ensure he has that opportunity."
"John Edwards shares the vision of the Massachusetts Legislature that all people deserve quality, affordable health care and he wants to bring that vision to the entire country," said State Representative Steven Walsh. "He is concerned about the shrinking middle class, a result of declining salaries and rising costs for things like housing and education. John Edwards truly is the best choice for hard working families in the Commonwealth who want a more promising future. I am proud to support his candidacy and work with him to improve the lives of all Americans."
The Massachusetts Democrats endorsing Edwards for president are:


Scott Harshbarger, former Massachusetts Attorney General, Democratic nominee for Governor, former national executive director for Common Cause; currently is Senior Counsel to the Proskauer Rose law firm
Steven Walsh, State Representative - Lynn
Michael Costello, State Representative - Amesbury
John Keenan, State Representative - Salem
Ron Mariano, State Representative - Norfolk
Michael McGlynn, Mayor of Medford; former president of the Massachusetts Mayors Association
Edward J. "Chip" Clancy, Mayor of Lynn
Richard Howard, Mayor of Malden
Thomas Ambrosino, Mayor of Revere
Stephen Murphy, Boston City Council - At Large
William R. Keating, District Attorney, Norfork County; former member of the Democratic National Committee
Jon Blodgett, District Attorney, Essex County - Peabody
James DiPaola, Sheriff, Middlesex County - Malden
Paul Nowicki, Chelsea Councilor At Large, and four time President of the Chelsea City Council
Kevin Greeley, Chairman, Arlington board of Selectman
Dan Cahill, Lynn School Committee Member
Jeff Newhall, Lynn School Committee Member
John Ford, Lynn School Committee Member
John O'Brien, Essex County Registrar of Deeds
Colleen McGlynn, Chief of Staff to Senate Majority Leader Fred Berry
Michael Goldman, former Senior Advisor to both the Dukakis for President and Bradley for President campaigns
Michael McClaughlin, former Middlesex County Commissioner
Donald Davenport, former chief of staff, Massachusetts Office of Attorney General
William Tinti, senior managing partner, Tinti, Flynn, Grover And Fry; former Chief of Staff, Congressman Michael Harrington
Michael Kogut, senior partner, Murtha,Cullinha; former Assistant Attorney General and Chief of the Medicare Fraud Unit
Alex MacDonald, partner, MacDonald, Rothweiler & Eisenberg
Maureen Strafford, Arnold P. Gold Foundation Associate Professor, Departments of Anesthesiology and Pediatrics, Tufts University and Tufts-New England Medical Center
Diane Saxe, DNC member
Ron Lipof, CEO, Wellness Community
Vic DiGravio, Quincy
Ann Sheinwald, Rockport

  