
    WASHINGTON- Today, President Obama nominated Judge Jennifer Guerin Zipps and Rosemary Marquez to serve on the United States District Court bench.
"I am honored to put forward such highly qualified candidates for the federal bench," President Obama said. "Judge Jennifer Guerin Zipps and Rosemary Marquez will be distinguished public servants and valuable additions to the United States District Court."
Judge Jennifer Guerin Zipps: Nominee for the United States District Court for the District of Arizona:
Judge Jennifer Guerin Zipps is a United States Magistrate Judge for the District of Arizona, a position she has held since 2005. From 1999 until her appointment to the bench, Judge Guerin Zipps was an Assistant United States Attorney in Arizona, serving as the Chief of the Civil Division in 2002 and the Chief Assistant United States Attorney from 2002 until 2005. Prior to entering government service, Judge Guerin Zipps was a litigation associate at Molloy, Jones & Donahue in Tucson from 1991 until 1995. From 1990 to1991, she served as a law clerk to the Honorable William C. Canby of the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. Judge Guerin Zipps received her B.A. with honors in 1986 from the University of Arizona and her J.D. cum laude in 1990 from the Georgetown University Law Center.
Rosemary Marquez: Nominee for the United States District Court for the District of Arizona:
Rosemary Marquez has been engaged in the private practice of law in Tucson, Arizona, since 2000, focusing her practice on federal criminal defense. Previously, she served as an Assistant Federal Public Defender from 1996 to 2000, representing indigent defendants in federal district court and on appeal before the Ninth Circuit. For two years beginning in 1994, Marquez served as a public defender for the Pima County Office of the Legal Defender. Marquez began her legal practice as a Deputy County Attorney in the Pima County Attorney's Office, where she prosecuted a variety of matters, including domestic violence cases. Marquez received both her B.A. in 1990 and her J.D. in 1993 from the University of Arizona.
  