
    NOMINATIONS SENT TO THE SENATE:
Patricia A. Butenis, of Virginia, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, and to serve concurrently and without additional compensation as Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Maldives.
Christopher William Dell, of New Jersey, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Kosovo.
J. Michael Gilmore, of Virginia, to be Director of Operational Test and Evaluation, Department of Defense, vice Charles E. McQueary.
Gordon S. Heddell, of the District of Columbia, to be Inspector General, Department of Defense, vice Claude M. Kicklighter, resigned.
Nicole Lurie, of Maryland, to be Medical Director in the Regular Corps of the Public Health Service, subject to qualifications therefor as provided by law and regulations, and to be Assistant Secretary for Preparedness and Response, Department of Health and Human Services, vice W. Craig Vanderwagen, resigned.
Deborah Matz, of Virginia, to be a Member of the National Credit Union Administration Board for a term expiring April 10, 2015, vice Rodney E. Hood, term expired.
Dennis M. McCarthy, of Ohio, to be an Assistant Secretary of Defense, vice Thomas Forrest Hall.
Ellen Gloninger Murray, of Virginia, to be an Assistant Secretary of Health and Human Services, vice Charles E. Johnson, resigned.
Charles H. Rivkin, of California, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to France, and to serve concurrently and without additional compensation as Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Monaco.
Evan J. Segal, of Pennsylvania, to be Chief Financial Officer, Department of Agriculture, vice Charles R. Christopherson, Jr., resigned.
Thomas Alfred Shannon, Jr., of Virginia, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Career Minister, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Federative Republic of Brazil.
Sonia Sotomayor, of New York, to be an Associate Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States, vice David H. Souter, retiring.
  