
    Washington, D.C. – Gil Kerlikowske, Director of National Drug Control Policy, released the following statement regarding today's release of the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime World Drug Report 2011.
"Drugs place a tremendous burden on the global community. They tear apart families, fuel addiction and crime, harm our economies, and prevent too many of our fellow citizens from reaching their full potential. Today's report confirms that comprehensive efforts to reduce drug use and its consequences have a tremendous impact on making our communities healthier and safer. Confronting the global drug problem - including the prescription drug abuse epidemic - is a shared responsibility that requires a sustained and comprehensive approach. It is not a job for law enforcement alone. That is why the United States is engaged in an unprecedented effort to emphasize drug prevention and expand access to treatment to supporting enforcement efforts that disrupt drug trafficking. We look forward to working with our Federal, state, local, and international partners to protect public health and safety by supporting drug policies and programs informed by science and research."
According to the 2011 World Drug Report, the U.S. market for cocaine remains the largest in the world, but has experienced "massive declines in recent years." Additionally, while global markets for cocaine, heroin, and marijuana declined or remained stable, the production and abuse of prescription opiod drugs and new synthetic drugs rose. Last week, ONDCP released new data (add link) confirming the U.S. cocaine market was under significant stress.
The World Drug Report 2011 was released today at the United Nations Headquarters by Secretary-General Ban Ki-Moon, Yuri Fedetov, Executive Director of the U.N. Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC); Joseph Deiss, President of the General Assembly, and Victor Ivanov, Director of Russia's Federal Service for Drug Control.
For more information on National efforts to reduce drug use and its consequences visit: www.WhiteHouseDrugPolicy.gov
The Office of National Drug Control Policy seeks to foster healthy individuals and safe communities by effectively leading the Nation's effort to reduce drug use and its consequences.
  