
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate three individuals to serve in his administration.
The President intends to nominate Daniel R. Levinson to be Inspector General for the General Services Administration. Most recently he served as Principal of the Law Offices of Daniel R. Levinson, and from 1995 to 1998, he served as Chief of Staff and Counsel to Congressman Bob Barr of Georgia. Before joining Congressman Barr, Levinson was Of Counsel to Shaw, Bransford and O'Rourke from 1993 to 1994, and he served as Chairman of the U.S. Merit Systems Protection Board from 1986 to 1993. Additionally, he has held the position of General Counsel to the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission and was Deputy General Counsel in the U.S. Office of Personnel Management. Mr. Levinson is a graduate of the University of Southern California, received his J.D. from Georgetown University and received a LL.M. in Labor Law from George Washington University.
The President intends to nominate John Lester Henshaw to be Assistant Secretary of Labor for Occupational Safety and Health. He is presently the Director of Environment, Safety and Health for Astaris, LLC, in St. Louis, Missouri, and was previously the Director of Environment, Safety and Health for Solutia, Inc. From 1975 to 1995, he was with Monsanto Company in a variety of positions including Corporate Director of Quality and Compliance Assurance and Corporate Stewardship for Environmental Safety and Health and as Corporate Industrial Hygiene Director. Henshaw served for sixteen years in the Air National Guard as a Bio-Environmental Engineer and he is a member of numerous professional organizations. He is a graduate of Appalachian State University and received a Master's degree from the University of Michigan.
The President intends to nominate John J. Young to be Assistant Secretary of the Navy for Research, Development and Acquisition. He has been with the U.S. Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Defense since 1991, first as a Sandia National Labs Congressional Fellow from 1991 to 1993 and then as a Professional Staff Member since 1993. From 1988 to 1993, he was a member of the Technical Staff of Sandia National Labs, and from 1987 to 1988 he was a member of the technical staff at Rockwell International. Young is a graduate of Georgia Institute of Technology and received a Master's degree in Aeronautics and Astronautics from Stanford University.
  