
    President Obama. I just want to say that it's a great pleasure once again to have this bilateral meeting with President Hu.
Over the last several years, as a consequence of not only extensive one-on-one meetings, but also because of the outstanding work that our teams have done through the Strategic and Economic Dialogue, we have been able to really create a new model for practical, constructive, and comprehensive relations between our two countries.
Obviously, as two of the largest economies in the world, much of our focus has been on increasing trade and commerce between our two countries in a way that creates mutual benefits, and we have made significant progress in not only our bilateral relations, but also in helping to manage through some very difficult economic crises.
We've also been able to cooperate on a range of regional issues relating to the Asia-Pacific region, but also with respect to conflict and security challenges around the world.
In the wake of the G-20, this will be a good opportunity for us to recap the work that both China and the United States have to do to sustain global economic growth and to make sure that we are creating jobs and opportunity for our citizens.
And I'm also looking forward to having the opportunity to discuss some immediate issues that the world confronts. We need to discuss Iran, North Korea, and the challenges of curbing nuclear proliferation. This will also give us an opportunity to discuss the situation in Syria and to arrive at a cooperative approach that can end the bloodshed there and lead to the kind of legitimate government that I think we all hope for.
So once again, I want to thank President Hu for his leadership both in the G-20 and in helping to nurture the kind of cooperative relationship that we've developed, and I look forward very much to our discussion.
President Hu. I'm delighted to meet with you, Mr. President, again. It's already our 12th meeting. In March this year, you and I had very good talks in Seoul, Korea, and over the past 3 months, the working teams of both countries have been working in real earnest to follow through with the important agreement you and I reached. And we have made new progress in developing a cooperative partnership between China and the United States.
Building a good, stable, and productive China-U.S. relationship is in the fundamental mutual interest of our two countries and our two peoples and also contributes to peace and development of the world.
China is willing to work together with the United States to remain firmly committed to building a cooperative partnership. We are willing to work with the United States to continue enhance mutual trust and cooperation, appropriately handle disagreements and the sensitive issues, and continue to move forward with this cooperative partnership on a sustained, steady, and sound course.
I highly appreciate the important role played by President Obama in promoting the growth of this relationship. I believe that the talks we are going to have are going to be conducted in a sincere, friendly, and productive manner.
President Obama. Thank you.
  