
    President George W. Bush yesterday announced his intention to nominate two individuals and appoint sixteen individuals to serve in his Administration.
The President intends to nominate Frederick S. Celec, of Virginia, to be the Assistant to the Secretary of Defense for Nuclear, Chemical, and Biological Defense Programs. Mr. Celec currently serves as an Adjunct staff member at the Institute for Defense Analyses. Prior to this, he served as Deputy Assistant to the Secretary of Defense for Nuclear, Chemical, and Biological Defense Programs for Nuclear Matters. Earlier in his career, he served as Deputy Director for Operations at the Defense Nuclear Agency. Mr. Celec received his bachelor's degree from the Ohio State University and his master's degree from the Air Force Institute of Technology.
The President intends to nominate John Melvin Jones, of Virginia, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Co-operative Republic of Guyana. Mr. Jones, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, currently serves as the Civilian Leader of a Provincial Reconstruction Team in Iraq. Prior to this, he served as a Senior Inspector in the Office of the Inspector General at the Department of State. Earlier in his career, he served as a Senior Representative in the Office of Counterterrorism at the Department of State. Mr. Jones received his bachelor's degree and his JD from Howard University. He received his MBA from the University of Pennsylvania.
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the President's Commission on White House Fellowships:
Dionel M. Aviles, of Maryland;
Ari Bousbib, of Connecticut;
Amy Woods Brinkley, of North Carolina;
Deirdre P. Connelly, of Indiana;
Louis DeJoy, of North Carolina;
George M. Drysdale, of California;
John H. Frey, of Connecticut;
Trey Grayson, of Kentucky;
Frederick D. Gregory, of Maryland;
Mark F. Hearne II, of Missouri;
Thomas C. Leppert, of Texas;
Catherine J. Martin, of Florida;
Roger B. Porter, of Utah;
Amy Tuck, of Mississippi;
Dennis Zeleny, of Delaware.
The President intends to appoint Brigadier General Errol R. Schwartz, of Maryland, to be Commanding General of the Militia of the District of Columbia. Brigadier General Schwartz currently serves as Adjutant General of the Joint Force Headquarters and Commander of the District of Columbia Army National Guard. Prior to this, he served as Commander of the 74th Troop Command of the District of Columbia Army National Guard. Earlier in his career, he served as Director of Logistics of the Headquarters District Area Command of the District of Columbia Army National Guard. Brigadier General Schwartz received his bachelor's degree from the University of the District of Columbia. He received his master's degrees from Central Michigan University and the National Defense University.
  