
    WASHINGTON, DC – Today, as Congress continues to consider legislation related to the prescription opioid and heroin epidemic, the White House released the estimated amount of funding each State could qualify for under the new cooperative agreements proposed in the President's Budget to expand access to opioid treatment, particularly medication-assisted treatment. Under the President's $1.1 billion proposal to help Americans with opioid use disorders who want treatment get the help they need, States would receive funding based on the severity of the epidemic in their communities and the strength of their strategy to respond to it. The final funding amounts will depend on these factors and Congressional action.
The President has made clear that addressing this epidemic is a priority for his Administration. Without the resources necessary to prevent opioid use disorders and increase access to treatment and recovery services, pending legislation this year would do little to help the thousands of Americans struggling with addiction get the treatment they urgently need.
The President's Budget builds on  current Administration strategies to prevent drug use, pursue targeted drug enforcement activities, improve prescribing practices for pain medication, increase access to treatment, work to reduce overdose deaths, and support the millions of Americans in recovery.
For example:
o  The Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration released a proposed rule to expand access to opioid treatment by increasing the number of patients physicians can treat with the opioid use disorder treatment medication buprenorphine.
o  The President signed a memorandum requiring Federal Departments to provide training on appropriate opioid prescribing to Federal health care professionals and requiring Departments to develop plans to address barriers to opioid use disorder treatment in Federal programs.
o  The Health Resources and Services Administration released $94 million in new funding to 271 Community Health Centers across the country to increase substance use disorder treatment services, with a specific focus on expanding medication-assisted treatment of opioid use disorders in underserved communities.
o  The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) released a new Guideline for Prescribing Opioids for Chronic Pain. Following its release, hundreds of medical, nursing and pharmacy schools have committed to prescriber training for their students.
o  CDC expanded the Prescription Drug Overdose program to support prevention efforts in 29 States to help end the prescription drug overdose epidemic.
o  The Office of National Drug Control Policy expanded its heroin initiative among regional High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas (HIDTAs) by adding Ohio and Michigan to the effort. These States join the Appalachia, New England, Philadelphia/Camden, New York/New Jersey, and Washington/Baltimore HIDTAs in accelerating local partnerships between law enforcement and their counterparts in public health to combat heroin use and overdose.
o  The Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) held its 11th National Prescription Drug Take-Back Day in April, providing a safe, convenient, and responsible way of disposing of unneeded prescription drugs. Millions of pounds of medication have been collected over the last ten Take Back Days. Local communities are also establishing ongoing drug take-back programs.
The State-by-State breakdown of the President's requested funding can be found here:  https://www.whitehouse.gov/factsheets-prescription-opioid-abuse-and-heroin-use
  