
    
  Lawmaker Announces Support at Annual Picnic

PIERSON, Iowa – Speaking from a flatbed trailer flanked by bales of hay and political yard signs, State Senator Bill Anderson surprised the crowd at his annual picnic this weekend by "doing something I've never done before," and announcing his endorsement of Sen. Ted Cruz for President.
Anderson, who is serving his second term in the Iowa Senate, invited Cruz to be the keynote speaker at the annual event held in the ball park outfield at Pierson City Park. When making his introduction, Sen. Anderson highlighted several areas that caused him to give his support to Cruz, including national security concerns, a desire for Constitutional fidelity, and a respect for the founding principles that made America great.
While urging those in attendance to join him in supporting Cruz on Caucus night, Sen. Anderson said, "I am excited to announce my support of Senator Ted Cruz for President. He is a bold leader with a vision for the future. Now is a time for truth and Senator Cruz is courageous enough to be honest with the American people about the real challenges facing our country. He is willing to make the tough decisions to lead us through these challenging times."
Sen. Cruz thanked Anderson for his support, and welcomed him to the team. "I'm thrilled to have the support of a hardworking leader with clear convictions and strong ties to the conservative movement in Iowa like Bill Anderson. We are building a grassroots team that will touch each county and reach every precinct, and I know that Bill will help build that strong team here in western Iowa."
Anderson, who works in the Congressional office of Rep. Steve King when not serving in the Iowa Senate, is also a former member of the Iowa Republican Party State Central Committee. Senator Anderson, his wife Angie, and their three young children were all on hand to welcome Sen. Cruz to the picnic in Pierson.
Sen. Anderson is the eighth member of the Iowa Legislature to endorse Ted Cruz. Cruz will be back in Iowa for events starting on July 6th.
  