
    To the Congress of the United States:
Pursuant to section 204(b) of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.), the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.), section 5 of the United Nations Participation Act of 1945 (22 U.S.C. 287c), and section 301 of title 3 of the United States Code, in view of United Nations Security Council Resolution No. 841 of June 16, 1993, and in order to take additional steps with respect to the actions and policies of the de facto regime in Haiti and the national emergency described and declared in Executive Order No. 12775, I hereby report that I have exercised my statutory authority with respect to Haiti and issued an Executive order that:
—Blocks all property of any Haitian national providing substantial financial or material contributions to the de facto regime in Haiti, or doing substantial business with the de facto regime in Haiti, as identified by the Secretary of the Treasury, that is or comes within the United States or the possession or control of United States persons. The proposed order defines the term "Haitian national" to mean a citizen of Haiti, wherever located; an entity or body organized under the laws of Haiti; and any other person, entity, or body located in Haiti and engaging in the importation, storage, or distribution of products or commodities controlled by sanctions imposed on Haiti pursuant to resolutions adopted either by the United Nations Security Council or the Organization of American States, or otherwise facilitating transactions inconsistent with those sanctions;
—Prohibits the sale or supply, by United States persons, or from the United States, or using U.S.-registered vessels or aircraft, of petroleum or petroleum products or arms and related materiel of all types, including weapons and ammunition, military vehicles and equipment, police equipment and spare parts for the aforementioned, regardless of origin, to any person or entity in Haiti or to any person or entity for the purpose of any business carried on in or operated from Haiti, and any activities by United States persons or in the United States which promote or are calculated to promote such sale or supply; and
—Prohibits the carriage on U.S.-registered vessels of petroleum or petroleum products, or arms and related materiel of all types, including weapons and ammunition, military vehicles and equipment, police equipment and spare parts for the aforementioned, regardless of origin, with entry into, or with the intent to enter, the territory or territorial sea of Haiti.
I am enclosing a copy of the Executive order that I have issued. The order was effective immediately.
The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, is authorized to issue regulations implementing these prohibitions.
United Nations Security Council Resolution 841, unanimously adopted on June 16, 1993, calls on all States to adopt certain measures which are included within those outlined above. These measures are called for in recognition of the urgent need for an early, comprehensive, and peaceful settlement of the crisis in Haiti and in light of the failure of parties in Haiti to act constructively to take steps necessary to begin the restoration of democracy.
The measures we are taking respond to the Security Council's call. They demonstrate our commitment to remain at the forefront of the international community's efforts to back up with sanctions the negotiations process being sponsored by the United Nations and the Organization of American States. These steps also demonstrate unflinching support through our foreign policy of the return of democracy to Haiti.
WILLIAM J. CLINTON
The White House,
June 30, 1993.
  