
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

1. Pursuant to title V of the Trade Act of 1974, as amended (the 1974 Act) et seq.), the President may designate specified articles provided for in the Harmonized Tariff treatment under the Generalized System of Preferences (GSP) when imported from designated beneficiary developing countries.
2. Pursuant to sections 501, 503(a), and 504(a) of the 1974 Act 2463(a), and 2464(a)), in order to subdivide and amend the nonmeclature of existing provisions of the HTS to modify the GSP, I have determined, after taking into account information and advice received under section 503(a), that the HTS should be modified to adjust the original designation of eligible articles. In addition, pursuant to title V of the 1974 Act, I have determined that it is appropriate to designate certain articles provided for in the HTS as eligible for preferential tariff treatment under the GSP when imported form designated beneficiary developing countries. Further, pursuant to section 504(a)(1) of the 1974 Act (a)(1)) and having considered the factors set forth in sections 501 and 502(c) of the 1974 Act and 2462(c)), I have determined that certain beneficiary countries should not receive preferential tariff treatment under the GSP with respect to certain articles designated as eligible for preferential tariff treatment under the GSP.
3. Section 604 of the 174 Act authorizes the President to embody in the HTS the substance of the provisions of that Act, and of other acts affecting import treatment, and actions thereunder.
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush, President of the United States of America, acting under the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including but not limited to title V and section 604 of the 1974 Act, do proclaim that:
(1) In order to designate certain articles as eligible articles for purposes of the GSP when imported from certain designated beneficiary developing countries, the HTS is modified as provided in Annex I to this proclamation.
(2)(a) In order to designate certain articles as eligible articles for purposes of the GSP when imported from any designated beneficiary developing country, the Rates of Duty 1-Special subcolumn for the HTS subheadings enumerated in Annex II(a) to this proclamation is modified by inserting in the parentheses the symbol "A" as provided in such Annex.
(b) In order to designate certain articles as eligible articles for purposes of the GSP when imported form certain designate beneficiary developing countries and to provide that certain countries should not be treated as a beneficiary developing country with respect to such eligible articles, the Rates of Duty 1-Special subcolumn for each of the HTS subheadings enumerated in Annex II(b) to this proclamation is modified by inserting the symbol "Ac" as provided in such Annex.
(3) In order to provide to provide that certain countries should not be treated as a beneficiary developing country with respect to certain eligible articles for purposes of the GSP, general note 3(c)(ii)(D) to the HTS is modified as provided in Annex III to this proclamation.
(4) In order to provide for the continuation of previously proclaimed staged reductions on Canadian goods in the HTS subheadings modified in Annex I to this proclamation, effective with respect to goods originating in the territory of Canada which are entered, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on or after the dates specified in Annex IV to this proclamation, the rate of duty in the HTS set forth in the Rates of Duty 1-Special subcolumn followed by the symbol "CA" in parentheses for each of the HTS subheadings enumerated in Annex.
(5) In order to provide for the continuation of previously proclaimed staged reductions on products of Israel in the HTS subheadings modified in Annex I to this proclamation, effective with respect to articles entered, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on or after the dates specified in Annex V to this proclamation, the rate of duty in the HTS set forth in the Rates of Duty-Special subcolumn followed by the symbol "IL" in parentheses for each of the HTS subheadings enumerated in Annex V to this proclamation is modified as provided in such Annex.
(6) Any provisions of previous proclamations and Executive orders inconsistent with the provisions of this proclamation are hereby superseded to the extent of such inconsistency.
(7)(a) The modifications made by Annexes, I, II, and III to this proclamation shall be effective with respect to articles both: (i) imported on or after January 1, 1976, and (ii) entered, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on or after 15 days after the date of publication of this proclamation in the Federal Register.
(b) The modifications made by Annex IV(a) to this proclamation shall be effective with respect to goods originating in the territory of Canada which are entered, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on or after January 1, 1993.
(c) The modifications made by Annex IV(b) to this proclamation shall be effective with respect to goods originating in the territory of Canada which are entered, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on or after the dates indicated in Annex IV(b).
(d) The amendments made by Annex V to this proclamation shall be effective with respect to products of Israel which are entered, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on or after January 1, 1995.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this fifteenth day of June, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-two, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and sixteenth.

GEORGE BUSH
  