
    The following list does not include promotions of members of the Uniformed Services, nominations to the Service Academies, or nominations of Foreign Service officers.
Submitted June 26
Derrick L. Forrister,
of Tennessee, to be an Assistant Secretary of Energy (Congressional and Intergovernmental Affairs), vice William J. Taylor III, resigned.
Submitted June 27
Todd J. Campbell,
of Tennessee, to be U.S. District Judge for the Middle District of Tennessee, vice Thomas A. Wiseman, Jr., retired.
James M. Moody,
of Arkansas, to be U.S. District Judge for the Eastern District of Arkansas, vice Henry Woods, retired.
Alberto J. Mora,
of Florida, to be a member of the Broadcasting Board of Governors for a term of 2 years (new position).
Evan J. Wallach,
of Nevada, to be a Judge of the U.S. Court of International Trade, vice Edward D. Re, retired.
Submitted June 28
George D. Milidrag,
of Michigan, to be a member of the Advisory Board of the Saint Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation, vice L. Steven Reimers.
Lawrence H. Summers,
of Massachusetts, to be Deputy Secretary of the Treasury, vice Frank N. Newman, resigned.
Frances D. Cook,
of Florida, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Sultanate of Oman.
J. Stapleton Roy,
of Pennsylvania, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Career Minister, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Indonesia.
Thomas W. Simons, Jr.,
of the District of Columbia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Career Minister, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Islamic Republic of Pakistan.
John M. Yates,
of Washington, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Benin.
Submitted June 29
R. Guy Cole, Jr.,
of Ohio, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the Sixth Circuit, vice Nathaniel R. Jones, retired.
John Raymond Garamendi,
of California, to be Deputy Secretary of the Interior, vice Frank A. Bracken, resigned.
Submitted June 30
Ernest W. DuBester,
of New Jersey, to be a member of the National Mediation Board for a term expiring July 1, 1998 (reappointment).
Richard Henry Jones,
of Nebraska, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Lebanon.
William Harrison Courtney,
of West Virginia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Georgia.
Barry Ted Moskowitz,
of California, to be U.S. District Judge for the Southern District of California (new position).
Stephen M. Orlofsky,
of New Jersey, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of New Jersey, vice Dickinson Richards Debevoise, retired.
Donald C. Pogue,
of Connecticut, to be a Judge of the U.S. Court of International Trade, vice James L. Watson, retired.
Howard Monroe Schloss,
of Louisiana, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Treasury, vice Joan Logue-Kinder.
William K. Sessions III,
of Vermont, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of Vermont, vice Fred I. Parker, elevated.
Ortrie D. Smith,
of Missouri, to be U.S. District Judge for the Western District of Missouri, vice Howard F. Sachs, retired.
  