
    Dear Madam Speaker: (Dear Mr. President:) 
Pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (IEEPA) (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) and the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.), I hereby report I have issued an Executive Order (the "order") that declares a national emergency with respect to the attempts by the International Criminal Court (ICC) to assert authority over United States personnel without the consent of the United States, and over personnel of countries that are allies of the United States without these governments' consent.
The order blocks the property and interests in property of foreign persons determined by the Secretary of State, in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury and the Attorney General:

To have directly engaged in any effort by the ICC to investigate, arrest, detain, or prosecute any United States personnel without the consent of the United States; 
To have directly engaged in any effort by the ICC to investigate, arrest, detain, or prosecute any personnel of a country that is an ally of the United States without the consent of that country's government; 
To have materially assisted, sponsored, or provided financial, material, or technological support for, or goods or services to or in support of, any activity described in subsection (a)(i)(A) or (a)(i)(B) of the order or any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to the order; and 
To be owned or controlled by, or to have acted or purported to act for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order. 

I have delegated to the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, the authority to take such actions, including adopting rules and regulations, to employ all powers granted to the President by IEEPA as may be necessary to implement the order.
Under section 212(f) of the Immigration and Nationality Act of 1952 (8 U.S.C. 1182(f)), the order also suspends the unrestricted immigrant and nonimmigrant entry into the United States of aliens, and their immediate family members, and persons designated by the Secretary of State to be employed by, or acting as an agent of, the ICC.
I am enclosing a copy of the order I have issued.
Sincerely,
DONALD J. TRUMP
  