
    Senator Thomas H. Tuberville 
Q. Senator Tuberville is not budging on Pentagon promotions. Senator Tuberville is not budging on Pentagon promotions.
Q. Mr. President, was Prigozhin—was Prigozhin looking to capture military leaders?
The President. He's not budging on it, as I understand, from my colleagues. It's totally inappropriate. It's outrageous.
Q. But he says the Defense Department should not be paying for abortion travel. Your response?
The President. He doesn't know what he's talking about.
Wagner Group Mercenary Organization Leader Yevgeniy Viktorovich Prigozhin of Russia 
Q. Was Prigozhin looking to capture military leaders?
The President. That remains to be seen.
Q. [Inaudible]—policy announcement?
Q. President Biden—[inaudible]—escalating in Ukraine? Why not engage with Russia in meaningful talks to try to deescalate the whole situation in Ukraine? You're sending F-16s, sir.
President Vladimir Vladimirovich Putin of Russia 
Q. Mr. President, has Putin been weakened by what happened in Russia?
The President. Absolutely.
Q. Mr. President, why no new policy announcement?
President Vladimir Vladimirovich Putin of Russia 
Q. To what extent has Vladimir Putin been weakened by recent events?
The President. It's hard to tell, but he's clearly losing the war in Iraq [Ukraine; White House correction]. He's losing the war at home. And he has become a bit of a pariah around the world. And it's not just NATO; it's not just the European Union. It's Japan. It's—you know, it's 40 nations.
Q. Have you heard from—[inaudible]?
R. Hunter Biden 
Q. President Biden, how involved—President Biden, how involved were you in your son's "Chinese shakedown" text message? Were you sitting there?
Q. Mr. President——
Q. Were you involved? Were you involved?
The President. No, I wasn't. And I don't know——
Q. Do you think Vladimir Putin is——
Q. Were you?
The President. No!
Q. Mr. President——
President Vladimir Vladimirovich Putin of Russia 
Q. Do you think Vladimir Putin is weaker today than he was before all those events?
The President. I know he was—is.
Q. Will you give Congress your bank records, President Biden? Will you give Congress——
National Economy/Inflation 
Q. Is the worst of the inflation over?
The President. I—let me put it this way: I've been hearing every month there's going to be a recession next month. The consensus is, two-thirds of the economists and the major leaders in the banks think we're not going to have a recession. I don't think we will either.
But I tell you one thing: In addition to the prices that—going to—what a recession constitutes—we're bringing down prices across the board for people. That's what I'm going to be talking about today.
Q. Will you give Congress your bank records?
The President's Economic Policies 
Q. A week ago, sir, you said you didn't know "what the hell Bidenomics is." Sir, can you tell us today what it is?
The President. Sure I didn't, because the first time I heard it used was by you guys in the press.
Q. On Russia, sir—on Russia, sir——
Sweden/North Atlantic Treaty Organization 
Q. Any movement on Sweden's accession in NATO?
The President. I'd rather not speak to—[inaudible]—right now.
The President's Economic Policies 
Q. Why no new policy announcement with the branding? Why no new policy announcements with the branding?
The President. What——
Q. With the Bidenomics branding.
The President. Well, look, you guys branded it. I didn't. That's—I never called it "Bidenomics." And so I was asked the question: Why did I——
Q. Your economic team is calling it "Bidenomics."
The President. No, wait. Let's get it straight. The first time it was used was in the Wall Street Journal. Okay? I don't go around beating my chest, "Bidenomics." So the press started calling it "Bidenomics."
Q. Do you not like it, sir?
The President. I—no, I like it. It's fine. Yes, it's fine, because it is my policy.
Q. What do you say to the Americans who are worried, sir?
Q. What is your message——
  