
    AUSTIN – Gov. Rick Perry today released the following statement regarding Secretary of State John Kerry's comment that Iran does not have to reveal its past nuclear weapon development activities in order for a nuclear deal to be struck.
"Since day one of these nuclear negotiations, all parties involved have emphasized the critical importance that Iran provide a full accounting of all its weaponization activities. This is not meant simply to get Iran to sign a letter of confession, but to actually ensure that the IAEA inspectors — who this deal fundamentally relies upon — can effectively carry out their job of monitoring Iranian compliance. Iran has shown itself to be uncooperative on this most basic requirement for oversight and verification, and the Obama Administration is prepared to, yet again, concede any position in order to secure a foreign policy ‘victory.' This Administration has asked the American public and the world to trust that ‘if Iran cheats, the world will know it,' but has dramatically forfeited our ability to verify compliance. I urge President Obama and Secretary Kerry to stop accommodating Iran, and have the courage to walk away from the table."
On Tuesday Secretary Kerry Said It Wasn't Crucial For Iran To Reveal All Its Past Nuclear Weapons Research In Order For A Nuclear Deal With That Country To Be Struck. "Secretary of State John Kerry said that confronting Iran about its alleged past atomic weapons work isn't crucial to reaching a nuclear deal, a shift of the U.S. position that fueled fresh fears on Capitol Hill over the terms of an accord two weeks before a diplomatic deadline. ... But Mr. Kerry, in a news conference on Tuesday, said a complete understanding of Iran's past nuclear-weapons research wasn't essential to sealing a final accord in advance of the deadline." (Jay Solomon And Felicia Schwartz, "U.S. Shifts View Over Iran's Past Nuclear Work," Wall Street Journal, 6/16/15)
FLASHBACK: "For Months" U.S. And European Negotiators Have Said A Full Accounting Of Iran's Nuclear Activities Was "Critical To Sealing A Final Deal." "U.S. and European negotiators have for months said a full accounting of Iran's past nuclear activities would be critical to sealing a final deal by June 30 and guarding against Iran cheating in the future." (Jay Solomon And Felicia Schwartz, "U.S. Shifts View Over Iran's Past Nuclear Work," Wall Street Journal, 6/16/15)
WATCH: Washington Free Beacon: 20 Times The Obama Administration Said No Deal Was Better Than A Bad Deal With Iran.
  