
    To the Congress of the United States:
I am pleased to transmit this report on the Nation's achievements in aeronautics and space during fiscal year 1995, as required under section 206 of the National Aeronautics and Space Act of 1958, as amended (42 U.S.C. 2476). Aeronautics and space activities involved 14 contributing departments and agencies of the Federal Government, and the results of their ongoing research and development affect the Nation in many ways.
A wide variety of aeronautics and space developments took place during fiscal year 1995. The National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) successfully completed seven Space Shuttle flights. A Shuttle program highlight was the docking of the Shuttle Atlantis with the Russian space station Mir.
NASA launched three Expendable Launch Vehicles (ELV), while the Department of Defense (DOD) successfully conducted five ELV launches. These launches included satellites to study space physics, track Earth's weather patterns, and support military communications. In addition, there were 12 commercial launches carried out from Government facilities that the Office of Commercial Space Transportation (OCST), within the Department of Transportation (DOT), licensed and monitored.
NASA continued the search for a more affordable space launch system for the coming years with its Reusable Launch Vehicle program. NASA hopes to develop new kinds of launch technologies that will enable a private launch industry to become financially feasible.
In aeronautics, activities included development of technologies to improve performance, increase safety, reduce engine noise, and assist U.S. industry to be more competitive in the world market. Air traffic control activities focused on various automation systems to increase flight safety and enhance the efficient use of airspace.
Scientists made some dramatic new discoveries in various space-related fields. Astronomers gained new insights into the size and age of our universe in addition to studying our solar system. Earth scientists continued to study the complex interactions of physical forces that influence our weather and environment and reached new conclusions about ozone depletion. Agencies such as the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), as well as the Departments of Agriculture and the Interior, used remote-sensing technologies to better understand terrestrial changes. Microgravity researchers conducted studies to prepare for the long-duration stays of humans that are planned for the upcoming International Space Station.
International cooperation, particularly with Russia, occurred in a variety of aerospace areas. In addition to the Shuttle-Mir docking mission and the Russian partnership on the International Space Station, U.S. and Russian personnel also continued close cooperation on various aeronautics projects.
Thus, fiscal year 1995 was a very successful one for U.S. aeronautics and space programs. Efforts in these areas have contributed significantly to the Nation's scientific and technical knowledge, international cooperation, a healthier environment, and a more competitive economy.
WILLIAM J. CLINTON
The White House, June 26, 1996.
  