
    The following list does not include promotions of members of the Uniformed Services, nominations to the Service Academies, or nominations of Foreign Service officers.
Submitted June 5
Tracey D. Conwell, of Texas, to be a member of the National Museum Services Board for a term expiring December 6, 1996, vice Fay S. Howell, term expired.
Albert James Dwoskin, of Virginia, to be a Director of the Securities Investor Protection Corporation for a term expiring December 31, 1998 (reappointment).
David L. Hobbs, of California, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Cooperative Republic of Guyana.
William J. Hughes, of New Jersey, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Panama.
Submitted June 6
C. Richard Allen, of Maryland, to be a Managing Director of the Corporation for National and Community Service (new position).
Chris Evert, of Florida, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for National and Community Service for a term of 3 years (new position).
Christine Hernandez, of Texas, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for National and Community Service for a term of 2 years (new position).
Submitted June 7
John Joseph Callahan, of Massachusetts, to be an Assistant Secretary of Health and Human Services, vice Kenneth S. Apfel, resigned.
Stephen G. Kellison, of Texas, to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Federal Hospital Insurance Trust Fund for a term of 4 years, vice David M. Walker, term expired.
Stephen G. Kellison, of Texas, to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Federal Supplementary Medical Insurance Trust Fund for a term of 4 years, vice David M. Walker, term expired.
Marilyn Moon, of Maryland, to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Federal Hospital Insurance Trust Fund for a term of 4 years, vice Stanford G. Ross, term expired.
Marilyn Moon, of Maryland, to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Federal Supplementary Medical Insurance Trust Fund for a term of 4 years, vice Stanford G. Ross, term expired.
  