
    To the Congress of the United States:
I am hereby transmitting to the Congress the Standby Gasoline Rationing Plan as required by Section 203 of the Energy Policy and Conservation Act (42 U.S.C. 6263) as amended by Section 103 of the Emergency Energy Conservation Act of 1979, P.L. 96-102. I have also directed the Secretary of Energy to publish the Plan in the FEDERAL REGISTER, as the final step in prescribing a gasoline rationing contingency plan by rule, as required by statute.
I am also transmitting today to the appropriate committees of Congress the "Progress Report to Congress on the Standby Motor Fuel Rationing Plans" required by Section 102 of the Emergency Energy Conservation Act. This report will provide further information on the development of the Standby Gasoline Rationing Plan.
The Standby Gasoline Rationing Plan responds to the concerns of the Congress expressed in the debates on last year's plan and in the Emergency Energy Conservation Act, as well as to the concerns expressed by the public during the comment period. In accordance with statutory requirements, the Plan is designed to deal with a serious shortage which will necessarily inconvenience large numbers of gasoline users. If circumstances arise that necessitate its implementation, the Plan will serve to allocate gasoline supplies equitably, stabilize the gasoline market and minimize economic dislocations.
The undependability of foreign sources of petroleum has been demonstrated by a long series of events, including the curtailment of oil supplies from Iran and the shortages of gasoline, diesel fuel and other products which we incurred during 1979. The current situation in the Middle East, particularly the continued retention of hostages by Iran and the Soviet occupation of Afghanistan, underscores the need for the United States to be well prepared to deal with periods of serious shortage. The Plan, in addition to the Standby Federal Emergency Energy Conservation Plan recently promulgated under the Emergency Energy Conservation Act of 1979, will provide important tools for the management of a severe gasoline shortfall.
I urge favorable review by the Congress.
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
June 12, 1980.
  