
    "For too long the Palestinian people have been trapped in inefficient frameworks of the past. The Peace to Prosperity plan is a framework for a brighter, more prosperous future for the Palestinian people and the region and a vision of what is possible if there is peace. -Jared Kushner
PEACE TO PROSPERITY: The Trump Administration is launching a new approach, Peace to Prosperity, which will help build a better future for the Palestinian people and the region. 

The Trump Administration's Peace to Prosperity approach centers on three pillars: the Palestinian economy, people, and government. This includes initiatives that aim to:

Unleash Palestinian economic potential
Empower the Palestinian people
Enhance Palestinian governance


Peace to Prosperity is the most comprehensive international effort for the Palestinian people to date and has the potential to achieve incredible results, including:

Facilitating more than $50 billion in investment over 10 years
More than doubling Palestinian gross domestic product
Creating over one million Palestinian jobs
Lowering the Palestinian unemployment rate to nearly single digits
Reducing the Palestinian poverty rate by 50 percent



EMBRACING A NEW APPROACH: The Trump Administration is undertaking a new approach after decades of past attempts have failed to truly succeed in helping the Palestinian people. 

The Trump Administration's approach is ambitious but achievable, helping the Palestinian people build a future of prosperity, dignity, and opportunity for themselves and generations to come.

Peace to Prosperity will help the Palestinians and the region fulfill their economic potential.


Peace to Prosperity will create a new model of economic growth and investment that breaks with the old model of donor dependency.

The old approach has centered on enormous amounts of donor aid, which has ultimately not improved the lives of the Palestinian people.


The Palestinian leadership has resisted a new approach because they fear this stream of foreign aid will dry up.
Peace to Prosperity and the economic workshop in Bahrain demonstrate that the world will not turn away if they embrace a new vision.

UNLEASHING ECONOMIC POTENTIAL: Peace to Prosperity will create an environment that fosters private sector growth and creates more opportunity for the Palestinian people. 

Peace to Prosperity will generate billions of dollars in new investment in the private sector, enabling business to create more high-quality jobs.

These investments will help support entrepreneurs and small businesses, as well as drive growth in key sectors like tourism, agriculture, housing, and manufacturing.


The Trump Administration aims to increase trade among Palestinians and countries in the region, ultimately boosting the economies of Egypt, Israel, Jordan, and Lebanon as well.
The West Bank and Gaza will benefit from major investments in areas like transportation and infrastructure.

These investments will increase Palestinian exports and reduce the complications of transport and travel.
Peace to Prosperity will facilitate billions of dollars in investment to construct essential infrastructure, like electricity, water, and telecommunications.



EMPOWERING THE PALESTINIAN PEOPLE: Peace to Prosperity will empower the Palestinian people and help lead to a better quality of life.

The Trump Administration's approach will help offer the Palestinian people access to better education, workforce training, and healthcare.
Peace to Prosperity will strengthen the Palestinian education system by focusing on improving educational access, quality, and affordability.
Educational programs will be better aligned with the skills needed to succeed in the workplace.

While Palestinians often have high levels of education and literacy, they also have a high unemployment rate.


Peace to Prosperity will strengthen workforce development programs to help Palestinians gain access to quality, high-paying jobs in the private sector.

This approach includes a comprehensive strategy to boost employment for Palestinian youth and women.
Palestinians will have increased opportunities in STEM education, technical and vocational training, and research and development partnerships.
Workers who are already employed will receive the training they need to enhance their skills or change careers.


The Palestinian healthcare sector will be transformed to dramatically improve care.

Palestinian hospitals will gain access to necessary supplies, medicines, vaccines, and equipment to ensure they can provide quality care.
Greater use of mobile and neighborhood clinics will improve healthcare access throughout the West Bank and Gaza.



ENHANCING PALESTINIAN GOVERNANCE: Peace to Prosperity will improve Palestinian governance to attract more business investment and promote long-term growth. 

Peace to Prosperity builds a foundation for growth by promoting property rights, guarding against corruption, improving credit access, and ensuring functioning capital markets.

Adopting this framework will provide certainty and predictability for investors, leading to more growth, job creation, and foreign investment.


Peace to Prosperity will build up Palestinian institutions in order to strengthen the rule of law, promote judicial independence, and enhance government responsiveness.
The Palestinian government should improve operations by implementing a budgeting and tax plan that promotes fiscal sustainability.

  