
    Joins with Governors to Launch Federal-State Offshore Wind Implementation Partnership
President Biden's climate vision and leadership is spurring unprecedented economic investments in American-made clean energy. In recent weeks, the President has taken bold and decisive action to accelerate solar energy in the U.S., make charging an electric vehicle more affordable and accessible, and lower energy costs for American families through more efficient home heating equipment.
Building on these actions, on Thursday the President brought together a bipartisan group of Governors and senior officials from 11 East Coast states to launch a new Federal-State Offshore Wind Implementation Partnership to accelerate our growing offshore wind industry – boosting domestic supply chains, creating good-paying jobs, and lowering energy costs. At the White House event, which also included labor leaders and CEOs, the Administration announced additional steps to support the domestic shipbuilding industry to build offshore wind vessels right here in America, and to advance a National Offshore Wind Supply Chain Roadmap.
Read more about the announcement below:
Associated Press:Offshore wind boosted as Biden, East Coast governors team up[Matthew Daly, 6/23/22]
The White House is launching a formal partnership with 11 East Coast governors to boost the growing offshore wind industry, a key element of President Joe Biden's plan for climate change. Biden and other top administration officials will meet with governors and labor leaders Thursday at the White House to announce commitments to expand important segments of the offshore industry, including manufacturing facilities, ports and workforce training and development. The partnership comprises governors of both parties from Connecticut, Delaware, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New York, North Carolina, Pennsylvania and Rhode Island.
Forbes: Biden Partners with East Coast Governors to Accelerate Offshore Wind—Here's How It Fits into his Climate Plan[Brian Bushard, 6/23/22]
The Biden administration launched a partnership with 11 state governors Thursday to accelerate offshore wind along the East Coast, a key component of Biden's larger climate plan, and a departure from former President Donald Trump's dismissal of renewable energy as "expensive" and bad for birds … Offshore wind is a critical component of Biden's larger climate goal of deploying 30 gigawatts of offshore wind energy by the end of the decade, estimated to power 10 million homes and cut carbon dioxide emissions by 78 million metric tons.
Reuters: Biden, 11 U.S. states to boost support for offshore wind energy[Susan Heavey, 6/23/22]
Biden administration officials met with state governors and labor leaders at the White House on Thursday. "This is a real boost to our energy security," Biden told reporters following the meeting . . . The wind initiative will provide funding to create a domestic offshore wind supply chain and support a fleet of specialized vessels to build and service the projects, the White House said.
Here's what they are saying:
Delaware Senator Tom Carper, Chairman, Senate Committee on Environment and Public Works: "I'm thrilled to see the Biden Administration team up with governors across the East Coast, including Delaware, to boost offshore wind. This partnership will reduce emissions, lower energy costs, and create good-paying jobs—a win-win-win." [Tweet, 6/23/22]
Massachusetts Senator Ed Markey: "I applaud @POTUS' efforts to support a domestic offshore wind industry, including building out American-made vessels. Now, Congress should pass my Offshore Wind American Manufacturing Act to jumpstart domestic manufacturing, while investing in training and US shipbuilding." [Tweet, 6/23/22]
North Carolina Congresswoman Deborah Ross: "Offshore wind will propel our work towards a cleaner energy future, and North Carolina has already proven to be a leader in the industry. This partnership with states like NC will help us develop the nation's offshore wind supply chain, create jobs, & invest in our future." [Tweet, 6/23/22]
Lonnie Stephenson, President, IBEW: "The IBEW's 775,000 members applaud the Biden Administration for convening this first-of-its-kind collaboration between federal and state officials to accelerate offshore wind deployment. With the input of key stakeholders, including the IBEW, the partnership will help to ensure that the offshore wind industry fosters a strong, U.S.-based supply chain for offshore wind, grows a skilled U.S. workforce supported by good union jobs, builds on the administration's work to address important issues like electrical transmission and building a domestic fleet of Jones Act-compliant Wind Turbine Installation Vessels (WTIVs), and other key priorities." [Statement, 6/23/22]
North America's Building Trades Unions (NABTU): "ICYMI: Yesterday, @POTUS announced a landmark collaboration that will help generate more #OffshoreWind energy and expand family-sustaining, middle class career opportunities. 'Together, we're stepping up. We're about to build a better America.'" [Tweet, 6/24/22]
Scott Strazik, CEO of GE's global energy business portfolio: "GE is proud to provide turbines for Vineyard Wind, the first commercial offshore wind farm in America, which will help create more than 500 union jobs. We applaud the Biden Administration's continued focus on growing opportunities in offshore wind and look forward to continuing our work with the Administration and coastal governors to establish a much-needed offshore wind supply chain to promote domestic energy and American manufacturing and jobs."
Jeff Grybowski, CEO, US Wind: "President Biden is showing real leadership in developing clean energy for America. The creation of a Federal-State Offshore Wind Partnership is exactly what our nation needs to create a booming offshore wind industry that will employ many thousands of Americans in new union jobs. Today, I was honored to join senior members of the Biden Administration, governors from across the east coast, and my colleagues in industry and labor at the White House. The discussion about the steps we can take to build out this new industry even faster and bigger left me energized and excited about the prospects for clean American energy." [Statement, 6/23/22]
Heather Zichal, CEO, American Clean Power Association: "This new partnership will help propel the growing offshore wind industry in the United States by helping to create good-paying American jobs, expanding access to clean and affordable energy to more homes and creating predictability for the industry. The development of offshore wind is critical to meeting our nation's climate targets and building our clean energy economy, and we support the administration's initiative to bring important stakeholders to the table to invest in the infrastructure and domestic supply chain the industry needs. Clear and predictable permitting for offshore wind is essential to recognizing its potential and there is still work to do. We look forward to working with the administration as this partnership continues its important work to support this critical industry and our clean energy transition." [Statement, 6/23/22]
Espedal Kindem, President, Equinor Wind US: "These types of collaboration, coordination, and actions are exactly what are needed to support offshore wind. This new industry has so much potential but will require public and private support to ensure it gets off the ground, and in the water. As a company working to supply more than 2 million homes with offshore wind power we commend the Administration and state-level support in moving offshore wind forward." [Tweet, 6/23/22]
Miriam Goldstein, Senior Director Conservation Policy, Center for American Progress: "This is exactly the kind of regional coordination we need to scale up the offshore wind in a smart way. Building a robust and responsibly sited offshore wind industry will bring us closer to meeting our ambitious clean energy goals, boost the economy, create good union jobs, and contribute to protecting the ocean from the worst effects of climate change." [Statement, 6/23/22]
Oceana: "We applaud President Biden's leadership to advance domestic clean energy. Offshore wind has the potential to be a game-changer in the U.S. energy portfolio, making energy prices cheaper, creating jobs, and replacing the fossil fuels that are driving climate change. Our oceans also need strong safeguards for marine life to avoid, minimize, and mitigate the impacts of offshore wind projects. Today, there are just 7 offshore wind turbines in the United States and we're going to need a lot more, done responsibly, to meet our clean energy goals. We're glad to see the Biden-Harris administration's efforts to advance responsible, just, equitable solutions to mitigate the dangerous and costly effects of climate change." [Statement, 6/23/22]
Jason Walsh, Executive Director, BlueGreen Alliance: "The offshore wind industry is taking off along our shores, providing the opportunity to create high-quality, union jobs building, operating, and maintaining a growing number of offshore wind farms. To fully seize on the economic and climate opportunities inherent in this sector, we need to invest in building crucial supply chains. We welcome this announcement and will continue to work with the administration and within the states to ensure that our workers and communities reap the maximum benefits from this growing industry." [Statement, 6/23/22]
Fred Zalcman, Director, New York Offshore Wind Alliance: "We applaud the Biden Administration for its leadership in bringing together state and federal governments for a more coordinated delivery of those policies and programs and collective activity needed to build a new U.S.-based offshore wind industry. As our forefathers discovered over two centuries ago, we do best as a Nation when we work together as one economic unit. The perils we face today in climate change, energy independence and national security require no less." [Statement, 6/24/22]
Doreen Harris, President & CEO, NYSERDA: "The statement from@GovKathyHochul on yesterday's Federal-State Offshore Wind Implementation Partnership by @POTUS reflects what we @NYSERDA do every day - to advance #offshorewind projects which will further spur the green economy of the future." [Tweet, 6/23/22]
Casey Katims, Executive Director, U.S. Climate Alliance: "Things you love to see — the Biden Administration teaming up with governors to advance clean energy. This is good!" [Tweet, 6/23/22]
Sam Evans-Brown, Executive Director, Clean Energy New Hampshire: "Glad to see New Hampshire joining this East Coast States' offshore wind collaboration. Wind in the Gulf of Maine is still a decade away, but if the state wants to capture any of the economic development associated with the wind boom, it needs to act now." [Tweet, 6/23/22]
Sam Holman, Digital Director, Evergreen Action: "Beyond being absolutely crucial to our climate fight, the offshore wind industry will be an enormous economic driver. And thanks to project labor agreements like the one @OrstedUS and @NABTU made recently, the offshore wind industry will be powered by union workers." [Tweet, 6/23/22]
Clean Energy for America: "77K new jobs by 2030 from offshore #wind - that's a big deal and what @POTUS and this bipartisan group of governors are working towards. These states recognize #cleanenergy is a winner for workers and families. Does your state? #DontQuitOnCleanEnergy" [Tweet, 6/23/22]
Northeast Clean Energy Council: "Big news for #offshorewind. The pact features "commitments to expand important segments of the offshore industry, including manufacturing facilities, ports and workforce training and development." Emphasis on the workforce training." [Tweet, 6/23/22]
New England for Offshore Wind: "The Biden Administration's Federal-State Offshore Wind Implementation Partnership will allow for collaboration between federal government and New England governors to establish our nation's #OffshoreWind supply chain, development practices, and workforce." [Tweet, 6/24/22]
Southeastern Wind Coalition: "Building out our domestic supply chain, infrastructure, and vessel fleet is essential to unlocking the $100+ billion economic opportunity of #offshorewind, thank you @NC_Governor for joining this federal-state partnership to help get us there!" [Tweet, 6/23/22]
Anbaric: "@Anbaric applauds @POTUS's historic Federal-State Offshore Wind Implementation partnership, a first-of-its-kind collaboration to advance the #OSW industry while addressing important regional matters such as transmission. Read more." [Tweet, 6/23/22]
350 US: "This is a win-win! Not only will the agreement provide Americans with cleaner, more affordable energy, but it'll also create good-paying jobs and invest billions in clean energy. Thank you, @POTUS! " [Tweet, 6/23/22]
  