
    The President. Good morning. Thank you all very much for coming. Laura and I have had a fantastic trip here to Sweden, and we want to thank all the folks at our Embassy for working hard to make our trip go so well. First, I want to make sure you meet your boss, and that's the Secretary of State, Colin Powell, who's doing a fantastic job for America. I want to thank Ambassador Lyndon Olson and his wife, Kay, for their hospitality and their service to the United States of America. They have served our country with distinction and class, and we're very grateful. I want to thank Bruce Carter for his hard work to make sure our trip went so well. And I want to thank Gillian Milonovic for her work, as well. [Applause] Gillian has got a few supporters out there.
Before we come around and shake your hand and thank you, I do want to talk about a piece of good news that we got out of our United States Senate yesterday. Yesterday the Senate overwhelmingly voted for an education bill that I had submitted to the Congress. It is a piece of legislation that will reform public education in America. It is a meaningful, real reform.
I want to thank Senator Kennedy and Senator Gregg for their bipartisan cooperation. I urge the conferees from the House and the Senate to act quickly on this legislation, so that America can say we put the reforms in place and we can truly say that no child in our country will be left behind.
I'm sure you've read about the so-called divisiveness in Washington. In short order, we have passed meaningful tax reform, and we are now on our way to meaningful education reform. And I'm so proud of the accomplishments not only of the administration but also of the United States Congress.
And I'm proud of your service to America, as well. You stand tall for a great country, and for that we are very grateful.
God bless you all, and God bless America.
Education Reform Legislation
Q. Mr. President, are you sorry you didn't get vouchers?
The President. I'm very pleased. It's a great piece of legislation.
  