
    NOMINATIONS SENT TO THE SENATE:
Michael D. Baughman, of Pennsylvania, to be United States Marshal for the Western District of Pennsylvania for the term of four years, vice Steven R. Frank, term expired.
Stephanie A. Gallagher, of Maryland, to be United States District Judge for the District of Maryland, vice William D. Quarles Jr., retired.
Karin J. Immergut, of Oregon, to be United States District Judge for the District of Oregon, vice Anna J. Brown, retired.
Jonathan A. Kobes, of South Dakota, to be United States Circuit Judge for the Eighth Circuit, vice Roger L. Wollman, retired.
Ariana Fajardo Orshan, of Florida, to be United States Attorney for the Southern District of Florida for the term of four years, vice Wifredo A. Ferrer, resigned.
Martha Maria Pacold, of Illinois, to be United States District Judge for the Northern District of Illinois, vice John W. Darrah, retired.
Michael S. Yeager, of Georgia, to be United States Marshal for the Northern District of Georgia for the term of four years, vice Beverly Joyce Harvard, term expired.
Terri L. Donaldson, of Texas, to be Inspector General of the Department of Energy, vice Gregory H. Friedman, resigned.
Michael Kubayanda, of Ohio, to be a Commissioner of the Postal Regulatory Commission for a term expiring November 22, 2020, vice Ruth Y. Goldway, term expired.
Robert J. Grey, Jr., of Virginia, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Legal Services Corporation for a term expiring July 13, 2020. (Reappointment)
Abigail L. Kuzma, of Indiana, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Legal Services Corporation for a term expiring July 13, 2019, vice Charles Norman Wiltse Keckler, resigned.
Abigail L. Kuzma, of Indiana, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Legal Services Corporation for a term expiring July 13, 2022. (Reappointment)
John G. Levi, of Illinois, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Legal Services Corporation for a term expiring July 13, 2020. (Reappointment)
John G. Malcolm, of the District of Columbia, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Legal Services Corporation for a term expiring July 13, 2020, vice Martha L. Minow, term expired.
Frank X. Neuner, Jr., of Louisiana, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Legal Services Corporation for a term expiring July 13, 2019, vice Sharon L. Browne, resigned.
Frank X. Neuner, Jr., of Louisiana, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Legal Services Corporation for a term expiring July 13, 2022. (Reappointment)
Gloria Valencia-Weber, of New Mexico, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Legal Services Corporation for a term expiring July 13, 2020. (Reappointment)
  