
    The following listing includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the White House Press Office and not included elsewhere in this issue.
June 8
The President returned to the White House from Camp David, Md.
June 9
The President met at the White House with:
—Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs;
—the Congressional Black Caucus;
—Frank B. Moore, Assistant to the President for Congressional Liaison.
June 11
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—the Democratic congressional leadership;
—Mr. Moore;
—Vice President Walter F. Mondale, Secretary of State Edmund S. Muskie, Stansfield Turner, Director of Central Intelligence, Hamilton Jordan, Assistant to the President, and Dr. Brzezinski;
—Minister of Foreign Affairs Emilio Colombo of Italy;
—Mrs. Richard M. Daley, Illinois State Senator Richard M. Daley, Jr., and members of the Daley family;
—Vice President Mondale.
The President greeted members of the National Rural Electric Cooperative Association's Youth Tour on the South Lawn of the White House.
The White House announced the following personnel changes in the White House staff:
—Hamilton Jordan, Assistant to the President and White House Chief of Staff will become Deputy Chairman of the Carter/Mondale Presidential Committee;
—Jack H. Watson, Jr., Assistant to the President for Intergovernmental Affairs and Secretary to the Cabinet, will become Assistant to the President and White House Chief of Staff;
—Eugene Eidenberg, Deputy Assistant to the President for Intergovernmental Affairs and Deputy Secretary to the Cabinet, will become Assistant to the President for Intergovernmental Affairs and Secretary to the Cabinet.
June 12
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—members of the Senate Labor and Human Resources Committee;
—Mr. Moore;
—Hedley W. Donovan, Senior Adviser to the President.
June 13
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Secretary of Defense Harold Brown, Secretary Muskie, Deputy Secretary of State Warren M. Christopher, Lloyd N. Cutler, Counsel to the President, Mr. Jordan, Mr. Donoran, and Dr. Brzezinski;
—representatives of the American Jewish Press Association (transcript will be printed next week);
—the Regulatory Council.
The President left the White House for a weekend stay at Camp David.
The President declared an emergency for the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania as a result of severe storms and tornadoes, beginning on or about June 3, which caused extensive property damage.
  