
    National Review's Rich Lowry: "'I turned around New York City, I can turn around Washington' That's the Rudy message and it's a powerful one (and Romney seemed tiny immediately afterward talking about "our products and services")." (Rich Lowry, National Review's "The Corner" Blog, 6/5/07)
National Review's Rich Lowry On Giuliani: "Does anyone doubt that this guy is ready to be President of the United States? Makes almost everyone else on the stage look small by comparison." (Rich Lowry, National Review's "The Corner" Blog, 6/5/07)
National Review's John Podhoretz On Giuliani: "He is doing a brilliant job tonight." (John Podhoretz, Nation Review's "The Corner" Blog, 6/5/07)
The Washington Post's Chris Cillizza: "Former New York City Mayor Rudy Giuliani was more forceful on the question. 'It was absolutely the right thing to do,' said Giuliani. He pivoted to assert that the 'Democrats were in denial' by trying to separate Iraq from the broader global war on terror." (Chris Cillizza, 6/5/07)
National Review's Rich Lowry On Mayor Giuliani's Answer To Immigration Question: "'No unifying purpose,' 'typical Washington mess'—right on the substance and right on the politics." (Rich Lowry, National Review's "The Corner" Blog, 6/5/07)
National Review's Rich Lowry: "The Underlying Thematic Argument between Rudy and McCain on the immigration bill is anti-Washington v. pro-Washington, with Rudy attacking the way Washington worked on this thing and McCain defending it. Politically, that's a big winner for Rudy." (Rich Lowry, Nation Review's "The Corner" Blog, 6/5/07)
The New York Times' Katharine Seelye: "Rudolph W. Giuliani is criticizing the Democrats too. (Hmmm.) He was typically direct — yes, he said, he would not rule out the nuclear option against Iran if Iran developed nuclear weapons — but he got in a dig at the Democrats. He said that during their debate, they sounded like they were 'back in the 1990's.' Those were the Clinton years, lest anyone has forgotten." (Katharine Steelye, The New York Times' "The Caucus" Blog, 6/5/07)
National Review's Rich Lowry: "Rudy's Straight-forward answer to the Iraq question—not a mistake—made Romney seem wishy-washy." (Rich Lowry, National Review's "The Corner" Blog, 6/5/07)
National Review's John Derbyshire: "Forty Minutes In: Rudy looking good—lucid, good-humored, pushing the 'executive prowess' image …" (John Derbyshire, National Review's "The Corner" Blog, 6/5/07)
National Review's Rich Lowry: "Rudy on Gays in the Military: Artful." (Rich Lowry, National Review's "The Corner" Blog, 6/5/07)
National Review's Kathryn Jean Lopez: "Rudy's Libby answer was excellent — including when he scolded Wolf for playing throwing the clock at him when we're talking about 'a man's life.'" (Kathryn Jean Lopez, Nation Review's "The Corner" Blog, 6/5/07)
National Review's Rich Lowry: "Rudy: man, he's in command of these debates lately." (Rich Lowry, National Review's "The Corner" Blog, 6/5/07)
National Review's John Podhoretz: "'The sentence was wildly excessive.' Straightforward and powerful, and gave Rudy a chance to point out he recommended 5,000 pardons to Ronald Reagan. In this debate you can see how good Rudy can be on his feet when he's focused." (John Podhoretz, National Review's "The Corner" Blog, 6/5/07)
National Review's John Derbyshire: " [Giuliani] jumps right into health insurance issue. Clear, concise. He's looking really good tonight." (John Derbyshire, National Review's "The Corner" Blog 6/5/07)
American Spectator's James Poulos: "Rudy finally clear, commanding, and crisp on socialized health care. Standing up from his chair looks professional and respectful, a dare I say Clintonian assertiveness." (James Poulos, American Spectator's Blog 6/5/07)
  