
    (New York, NY) June 21, 2016 - Today, the Donald J. Trump campaign announced a new executive board convened to provide advisory support to Mr. Trump on those issues important to Evangelicals and other people of faith in America.
The executive board will also lead a much larger Faith and Cultural Advisory Committee to be announced later this month.
The leaders on the executive board were not asked to endorse Mr. Trump as a prerequisite for participating on the board.
Rather, the formation of the board represents Donald J. Trump's endorsement of those diverse issues important to Evangelicals and other Christians, and his desire to have access to the wise counsel of such leaders as needed. Mr. Trump has received widespread support from Evangelical leaders, communities and voters, winning the majority of the Evangelical vote throughout the primaries.
Mr. Trump stated, "I have such tremendous respect and admiration for this group and I look forward to continuing to talk about the issues important to Evangelicals, and all Americans, and the common sense solutions I will implement when I am President."
The executive board members will convene on a regular basis. Certain members of the advisory board are solely responsible for managing Mr. Trump's private meeting with hundreds of Christian leaders scheduled today in New York City. 
Executive board members include:

Michele Bachmann - Former Congresswoman
A.R. Bernard - Senior Pastor and CEO, Christian Cultural Center
Mark Burns - Pastor, Harvest Praise and Worship Center
Tim Clinton - President, American Association of Christian Counselors
Kenneth and Gloria Copeland - Founders, Kenneth Copeland Ministries
James Dobson - Author, Psychologist and Host, My Family Talk
Jerry Falwell, Jr. - President, Liberty University
Ronnie Floyd - Senior Pastor, Cross Church
Jentezen Franklin - Senior Pastor, Free Chapel
Jack Graham - Senior Pastor, Prestonwood Baptist Church
Harry Jackson - Senior Pastor, Hope Christian Church
Robert Jeffress - Senior Pastor, First Baptist Church of Dallas
David Jeremiah - Senior Pastor, Shadow Mountain Community Church
Richard Land – President, Southern Evangelical Seminary
James MacDonald – Founder and Senior Pastor, Harvest Bible Chapel
Johnnie Moore - Author, President of The KAIROS Company
Robert Morris - Senior Pastor, Gateway Church
Tom Mullins – Senior Pastor, Christ Fellowship­
Ralph Reed - Founder,Faith and Freedom Coalition
James Robison - Founder, Life OUTREACH International
Tony Suarez - Executive VicePresident, National Hispanic Christian Leadership Conference
Jay Strack - President, Student Leadership University
Paula White - Senior Pastor, New Destiny Christian Center
Tom Winters - Attorney, Winters and King, Inc.
Sealy Yates – Attorney, Yates and Yates

  