
    The following list does not include promotions of members of the Uniformed Services, nominations to the Service Academies, or nominations of Foreign Service officers.
Submitted June 8
Sheila C. Bair, of Kansas, to be a Commissioner of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission for the remainder of the term expiring April 13, 1995, vice Wendy Lee Gramm, resigned.
George Charles Bruno, of New Hampshire, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Belize.
Michael Johnston Gaines, of Arkansas, to be a Commissioner of the U.S. Parole Commission for the remainder of the term expiring November 1, 1997, vice Victor M.F. Reyes.
Ernest Gideon Green, of the District of Columbia, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the African Development Foundation for the remainder of the term expiring September 22, 1995, vice Edward Johnson.
Kenneth Malerman Jarin, of Pennsylvania, to be a member of the National Council on the Arts for a term expiring September 3, 1998, vice Robert M. Johnson, term expired.
Robert A. Pastor, of Georgia, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Panama.
Anne C. Petersen, of Minnesota, to be Deputy Director of the National Science Foundation, vice Frederick M. Bernthal.
Mary L. Schapiro, of the District of Columbia, to be a Commissioner of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission for the term expiring April 13, 1999, vice Sheila C. Bair, term expired.
Mary L. Schapiro, of the District of Columbia, to be Chairman of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, vice Wendy Lee Gramm, resigned.
Carl Burton Stokes, of Ohio, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Seychelles.
James Sweeney, of New Mexico, to be a Special Representative of the President for Arms Control, Nonproliferation, and Disarmament Matters, U.S. Arms Control and Disarmament Agency, with the rank of Ambassador, vice Nancy M. Dowdy, resigned.
James L. Dennis, of Louisiana, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the Fifth Circuit, vice Charles Clark, retired.
David F. Hamilton, of Indiana, to be U.S. District Judge for the Southern District of Indiana, vice S. Hugh Dillin, retired.
Napoleon A. Jones, of California, to be U.S. District Judge for the Southern District of California, vice Earl B. Gilliam, retired.
Sarah S. Vance, of Louisiana, to be U.S. District Judge for the Eastern District of Louisiana, vice Henry A. Mentz, Jr., retired.
Submitted June 9
Elizabeth Frawley Bagley, of the District of Columbia, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Portugal.
Brian J. Donnelly, of Massachusetts, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Trinidad and Tobago.
Clay Constantinou, of New Jersey, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Luxembourg.
John R. Schmidt, of Illinois, to be Associate Attorney General, vice Webster L. Hubbell, resigned.
Janet L. Yellen, of California, to be a member of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System for a term of 14 years from February 1, 1994, vice Wayne D. Angell, resigned.
Submitted June 10
Thomas W. Graham, Jr., of Maryland, to be Special Representative of the President for Arms Control, Nonproliferation, and Disarmament Matters, United States Arms Control and Disarmament Agency, with the rank of Ambassador, vice Paul H. Nitze.
  