
    The following listing includes the President's daily schedule and other items of general interest as announced by the White House Press Office during the period covered by this issue. Events and announcements printed elsewhere in the issue are not included.
May 27
The President met at the White House with:
—Soviet Foreign Minister A. A. Gromyko;
—Mrs. Joseph P. Kennedy.
May 29
The President declared a major disaster for the State of Montana as a result of severe storms and flooding, beginning about May 16, which caused extensive public and private property damage.
The President declared a major disaster for the State of Wyoming as a result of severe storms, flooding, and mudslides, beginning about May 15, which caused extensive public and private property damage.
May 30
The President met with NATO Secretary General Joseph M. A. H. Luns in the Oval Office at the White House.
May 31
The President and Mrs. Carter hosted a private dinner for British Prime Minister and Mrs. James Callaghan at the White House. They were later joined by British Ambassador to the United States Peter Jay and his wife.
June 1
The President met at the White House with:
—Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs;
—Deputy Secretary of State Warren M. Christopher and several Members of the House of Representatives;
—Vice President Walter F. Mondale, Adm. Stansfield Turner, Director of Central Intelligence, Hamilton Jordan, Assistant to the President, and Dr. Brzezinski;
—Mrs. Carter, for lunch.
The President attended a fiscal year 1980 Federal budget issues meeting in the Cabinet Room at the White House.
June 2
The President met at the White House with:
—Vice President Mondale, Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance, Secretary of Defense Harold Brown, Dr. Brzezinski, and Mr. Jordan;
—Ambassador Robert S. Strauss, Special Representative for Trade Negotiations;
—Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare Joseph A. Califano, Jr., and Representative Paul G. Rogers of Florida;
—a group of State Democratic Party chairmen;
—Charles L. Schultze, Chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers;
—Dr. Brzezinski.
The President attended a fiscal year 1980 Federal budget issues meeting in the Cabinet Room at the White House.
The President left the White House for a weekend stay at Camp David, Md.
  