
    Wednesday, June 22—Saturday, June 25, 2016
Dr. Jill Biden has arrived in Buenos Aires, Argentina as part of her four-country visit to Central and South America to engage government and civil society partners on issues related to economic empowerment and educational opportunities for women and girls.
On Thursday, Dr. Biden will meet with the First Lady of Argentina, Juliana Awada, at the official residence of the President of Argentina, the Quinta de Olivos. This event is pooled press.
Dr. Biden and First Lady Juliana Awada will then tour Early Childhood Center "Chispitas" with Dr. Carolina Stanley, Minister of Social Development. Chispitas is one of over 50 Early Childhood Centers in Buenos Aires that offer early learning activities and provide nutritional support for children ages 0-4. This event is pooled press.
In the afternoon, Dr. Biden will have two events which are focused on President Obama's "100,000 Strong in the Americas" educational initiative—which is an exchange of ideas and cultures that will enrich the lives of people on both sides. First, she will visit the Instituto Nacional de Educación Tecnológica (INET) and tour the education training faculties with Soledad Acuña, Minister of Education of the Government of the City of Buenos Aires and INET Executive Director Gabriel Sanchez Zinny. INET provides instruction to community college teachers in disciplines including technology, sciences, robotics and accounting. Dr. Biden will deliver remarks emphasizing the importance of pursuing advanced educational opportunities. This event is open press.
Afterwards, Dr. Biden, accompanied by Ambassador Noah Mamet, will meet with the Minister of Education, Esteban Bullrich at the Ministry of Education. Dr. Biden will deliver remarks regarding the Argentina President Mauricio Macri's commitment to fund 1000 new education exchange opportunities with the United States in support of the "100,000 Strong in the Americas" educational initiative. At the event, Dr. Biden will sign these agreements as a participating witness. This event is open press.
On Friday, Dr. Biden will depart Buenos Aires en route San Miguel de Tucuman, Argentina.
Upon arrival, Dr. Biden will visit the Casa Historica de la Independencia. Dr. Biden will visit the newly renovated Casa with representatives of all three branches of the Tucuman Provincial government to commemorate Argentina's upcoming bicentennial on July 9th. This event is pooled press.
Afterwards, Dr. Biden will deliver remarks to approximately 1500 local teachers at the Teatro Mercedes Sosa on the importance and value of the teaching profession. This event is open press.
On Saturday, Dr. Biden will depart Argentina en route Panama City, Panama.
  