
    Sens. Matthews, Short and Aiken Councilwoman Price Will Also Lead State Effort
COLUMBIA-- The Clinton Campaign today announced its South Carolina Co-Chairs at a Statehouse press conference, led by former Governor and U.S. Secretary of Education Richard Riley. Joining Riley as state Co-Chairs are State Senators John Matthews (D-District 39) and Linda Short (D-District 17) and Aiken City Councilperson Lessie Price.
"I am proud to endorse and throw my full support behind the leader we need as President of the United States, Senator Hillary Clinton. Hillary Clinton understands the challenges our families in South Carolina face," Riley said. "America is ready for a change and Hillary Clinton is ready to lead from day one."
Riley's endorsement is one of the largest of its kind in South Carolina's Presidential primary thus far.
"I am honored to have the support of such influential leaders from across South Carolina," Clinton said. "We are going to run a strong campaign in the Palmetto State that reaches out to South Carolinians and asks them to join our effort to change America."
State Senator Linda Short and John Matthews spoke at the announcement about their reasons for supporting Clinton as the right choice for the state and nation.
"As a family advocate in Arkansas, First Lady of the United States and a United States Senator she has demonstrated the passion and developed the know how to get the job done," Short, a homemaker and former Chester County School board member, said. "Hillary Clinton knows how to listen. She cares about South Carolinians and values what we have to say. That's why she's ready to be President."
Matthews agreed.
"Hillary Clinton is a leader. Her life embodies the experiences, courage and tenacity needed in Washington to stand up for us, to put us first and give us a true voice in our government," Matthews, a businessman and retired elementary school principal, said. "Hillary Clinton understands policy. She knows health care. She knows education. She knows how to support our families and communities. Hillary Clinton knows how to make policy that puts us first in South Carolina."
Price, a former president of the Municipal Association of South Carolina -- representing 274 cities in the state, agreed that Clinton is ready to lead and the best choice to make a positive change.
"Hillary Clinton represents change at a time when the nation is ready for change. She is ready to move our nation forward, in a positive direction for all of us. I support Hillary Clinton because I think there is too much at stake for South Carolina and for our country to make any other choice," Price said.
To download pictures of today's event, visit: To download pictures of today's event, visit: http://www.hillaryclinton.com/multimedia/photos/press/
BACKGROUND: CLINTON'S SOUTH CAROLINA CO-CHAIRS
Former Governor and U.S. Secretary of Education Richard "Dick" Riley
Richard Wilson Riley, a life-long Democrat, was the United States Secretary of Education under President Bill Clinton as well as the Governor of South Carolina.
Born in Greenville County , South Carolina, Riley graduated with honors from Furman University in 1954. He then served in the Navy from 1954-55. Later in 1959 he received a law degree from the University of South Carolina.
Riley served as a member of the South Carolina House of Representatives from 1963-66. He then served 10 years in the State Senate , beginning in 1967. Riley was elected governor of South Carolina in 1978 . Riley was re-elected and served until 1987.
South Carolina State Senator John W. Matthews
John Welsey Matthews, South Carolina Senator, has served the people of District 39, Bamberg, Colleton, Dorchester, Hampton and Orangeburg Counties, since 1985. Prior to his service in the Senate, he served as a member of the House of Representatives from 1975 through 1984. Sen. Matthews previously served as teacher and administrator in the public school system and as a small business owner. He serves on the Senate Education, Finance, Banking and Insurance, Rules, Ethics and Invitations Committees.
He has served as a member of the South Carolina Education Association, Orangeburg County Education Association, Clemson University Board of Visitors, Medical University of South Carolina Board of Visitors, Winthrop University Board of Visitors, Human Affairs Commission, Voorhees College Board of Trustees, South Carolina State University Board of Trustees, Claflin University Capital Campaign Steering Committee, and the Education Oversight Committee. Sen. Matthews received both his undergraduate and graduate degrees from South Carolina State.
South Carolina State Senator Linda Short
Linda Huffstetler Short, South Carolina State Senator, has served the constituents of District 17, Chester, Fairfield, York, and Union Counties, since 1993. A tireless advocate for efforts that improve the health and well-being of families, Senator Short is a homemaker whose leadership has helped improve the lives of all South Carolinians. Prior to serving in the Senate, she served on the Chester County School Board for ten years.
She has served as a member of S.C. First Steps State Board of Directors, the S. C. Campaign to Prevent Teen Pregnancy, Babynet, USC Institute for Families in Society, the Bench/Bar Commission, the Agency Head Salary Commission, Vice Chair of the Joint Legislative Committee on Children and Families, and Chair of the Joint Legislative Committee on Consumer Finance.
She currently serves as a member on the Senate Education, Finance, Medical Affairs, and Transportation Committees. She is also serving on a Property Tax Reform Subcommittee, the Education Funding Subcommittee, the Early Childhood Education Select Committee, the Early Childhood Quality Task Force, and the State Retirement System Task Force. Senator Short earned a married Bachelor of Arts degree in Psychology from Winthrop University.
Aiken City Council Member Lessie Price
Lessie B. Price was the first woman elected to a municipal at-large seat on the Aiken City Council. She was elected in 1987. She is a former president of the Municipal Association of South Carolina, representing 274 cities in the state. A former chairman of the Aiken Regional Medical Centers Board of Trustees, Price was the only woman to hold a position on the board during the time of her tenure. She is an active member of the Friendship Baptist Church in Aiken, South Carolina.
Price was educated in the public schools of Aiken County, Allen University and the University of South Carolina.
  