
    First of all, let me say that this has been a wonderful experience for all of us from the United States to come here and be received with such great hospitality by President Lakas and by General Torrijos, their wives, and the people of Panama. And we're also deeply honored to have the presence of those who have been instrumental through their encouragement, through their tough criticisms when we were laggard in proceeding, to inspire us to reach an agreement that would be not only good for us but for the people of Panama and, I hope, the entire hemisphere.
This evening's entertainment will follow a very productive discussion among six of us who represent people hungry for peace, hungry for a better life for our people, and hungry for a constant consultation whereby we might derive from one another both inspiration and wisdom. So, I would like to ask the interpreter to repeat those words, and then I would like to add some other comments, very brief, about our negotiators and about the United States Senators who have also made this action possible.
After the difficult debates in our country, it's also a great pleasure to be among so many people who are in favor of the ratification of the treaties. I wish we had Mr. George Gallup up here tonight to take a poll among this group. [Laughter]
I know that the people of Panama have become acquainted with the Senators of the United States. We have a group of about 10 or 12 Senators who have come down here. If you don't know them by looking at their faces, you know them by their voices. We brought the good voices with us, and I think it's very important that you recognize their leadership and courage.
As has been the case in Panama, this was a very difficult decision for our Nation to make, because we have always been very proud of the Panama Canal and proud of the way it was built and .managed and proud of the peaceful way in which it has been maintained for the world. And we have proven, through a two-thirds vote under very difficult political circumstances, the commitment of the American people to these treaties. And I think it might be good to compliment the Senate, too, on the fast action they took—only 38 days—whereas the negotiators had taken, as you know, 14 years. This is a credit to the Senate, and I want to express those words as well.
In conclusion, I would like to recognize the negotiators who, with great patience and great determination and great wisdom, overcame immense difficulties in reaching a successful conclusion. I believe that the agreement which has now been reached between Panama and the United States of America has established a degree of momentum that will lead to even greater cooperation and friendship in the years to come.
I understand that we had too much momentum during the negotiations, that Ambassador Bunker now owns Contadora Island. [Laughter] And I understand that Ambassador Lewis owns the farm that Ambassador Bunker thought he had in Vermont. It happened that in 1903 Ambassador Bunker bought this from a Frenchman, and because of that, Ambassador Lewis claimed it as his own. [Laughter]
So, we have perhaps over-negotiated, but we've established a spirit of compromise, friendship, and a momentum which, in my opinion, will pay rich dividends in the future for our two countries and for others who have observed this great accomplishment.
And my strongest feeling at this moment is to express my appreciation to those of Panama and to those of our own country and to those who helped them. And I would like to say thanks to the negotiators, who made this possible.
  