
    Dear Herb:
It is with deepest personal regret that I accept your resignation as Director of Communications for the Executive Branch, effective July 1, 1973, as you requested. I have known during the past year, of course, that you felt it necessary to leave Government in order to continue your career in the media, and I am grateful for your willingness to remain in your position beyond the deadline you had originally set.
Over the years, I have watched you grow professionally as a newsman and as a loyal friend, who has performed with utmost skill as an assistant to me, both in government and in my campaigns. I have long admired your skills and your loyalty, and it has come as no surprise to me that you have been so highly esteemed by both the media and by those of us in the Administration.
As Director of Communications, you have contributed enormously to improving communication skills within the government. You have traveled countless miles to meet with editors and broadcasters in all fifty states, discussing with them this Administration's approach to the problems of the day and of the future. You have ably represented me and our government in twenty-six countries, including all the nations of Indochina, the People's Republic of China, and the Soviet Union. Most importantly, you can look back on your term in office as one which achieved the vital goal of effectively informing the American people about their government. These accomplishments comprise a distinguished record of service to our Nation.
I am pleased to know that your new affiliation will take you back to our home state of California, and I feel certain that you will continue to make an important contribution there. Despite your departure from government, I hope we will maintain the same close association that has meant so much to me throughout the years.
Pat joins me in sending our warmest best wishes to Marge and to you for every success and happiness in the future.
Sincerely,
RICHARD NIXON
[Honorable Herbert G. Klein, Director of Communications, The White House, Washington, D.C.]
  