
    My talks with Chancellor Kohl and his colleagues have fulfilled all my expectations. They confirm, as his words here have confirmed today, .that relations between the United States and the Federal Republic are those of close allies and friends. Chancellor Kohl and I, together with other allies and partners, have already had the opportunity in Venice to address many of the major issues confronting the world today. There, important steps were taken to ensure the continued economic progress and freedom for our nations.
Here in Bonn, we talked, in particular, about progress in arms reductions and East-West relations. Chancellor Kohl and I agree fully on the necessity of continuing our close consultations as we pursue our common goals of reducing the danger to Europe posed by the threatening policies and military might of the Warsaw Pact. We share deep satisfaction with NATO's 1979 double-track decision on intermediate nuclear forces—INF. It was controversial when the alliance first agreed upon it, yet time is proving it an unequivocal success. We hope to reach agreement with the Soviet Union before the end of 1987, which would drastically reduce and possibly eliminate a class of nuclear weapons that poses a particular threat to our friends and allies in Europe and Asia.
As we proceed in our quest for a safer and more stable peace, I look forward to continuing close cooperation and consultation with Chancellor Kohl and his government. And I would like to add something here also. Much is said each year about these economic summits with the heads of state of seven countries and our meetings and whether they accomplish much or whether they don't. I have to tell you, they would accomplish much if we did nothing but meet and just talk to each other—because we have become close friends. We use our titles in public as protocol requires. But when we meet together we're on a first-name basis, and we're not meeting as much as heads of states, as we're meeting as close, personal friends who look forward to renewing our friendship with these meetings and with others in between when we can manage it.
So this has been a wonderful several days for us to be here, to be in Venice, then to be in Berlin earlier today and to be here, and to know that we're with dear friends. And so, we say goodbye to all of you, and we say a very personal goodbye to our dear friends, Chancellor Kohl and Mrs. Kohl, and the others that we've met.
And God bless all of you, and may we all soon meet again. Thank you.
  