
    The Reviews Are In: Klobuchar Shows Why She is the Strongest Candidate to Take on Donald Trump
"Amy Klobuchar has emerged as the most aggressive critic of Trump in the debate"
MINNEAPOLIS, MN — Last night, as more than 15 million viewers from across the country tuned in, Senator Amy Klobuchar showed why she is the strongest candidate to take on Donald Trump. She shared her vision for an ambitious, optimistic agenda and the concrete steps she will take as president that will get our country back on the path to progress.
Some of the highlights from the debate:
See what others are saying:
USA Today: "Sen. Amy Klobuchar has emerged as the most aggressive critic of Trump in the debate, attacking the president on immigration, the economy and Iran."
Politico: "Amy Klobuchar got one of the biggest applause lines of the night."
Miami Herald: "Klobuchar used nearly every answer to direct fire at Trump."
New York Times: "Elizabeth Warren and Amy Klobuchar were the stars of the night... Klobuchar had some of the best lines, including her critique on Donald Trump's Iran agenda: 'I don't think we should conduct foreign policy in our bathrobe at 5 in the morning.'"
Boston Globe: "If I had to pick one winner from last night, I'd say it was Amy Klobuchar. She was crisp, smart, and confident..."
Washington Post: "[Klobuchar] was one of the debate standouts, making the case calmly and persistently for a public option, cautioning against free college for rich kids and hammering at drug prices... Winners: NBC moderators (who covered a huge amount of ground and wasted no time on silly queries) ... and Klobuchar."
The New Republic: "Miami Moonglow for Booker and Klobuchar... Klobuchar managed the difficult trick of appearing both firm and likable."
Des Moines Register: "Winners: Sen. Amy Klobuchar. Klobuchar had some zingers. The Minnesota senator was quick to pop in with one-liners that were memorable, catchy and pointed. Klobuchar bashed Trump for saying he would bring down drug prices, something she said the president has yet to do."
  