
    To the Congress of the United States:
Every so often, a Nation finds itself at a crossroads. Sometimes, it is fortunate and recognizes it has a choice. Sometimes, it does not. We are at such a crossroads in America today.
The course we select will touch the lives of most of us before the end of this century and surely affect the lives of generations of Americans yet to come.
Today, I am asking the Congress to join me in embarking this Nation on an exciting new course which will help assure the energy independence we seek and a significantly strengthened economy at the same time.
I am referring to the establishment of an entirely new private industry in America to provide the fuel for nuclear power reactors--the energy resource of the future. I am referring to uranium enrichment which is presently a Federal Government monopoly.
Without question, our energy future will become more reliant on nuclear energy as the supplies of oil and natural gas diminish.
The questions we must answer are (1) whether the major capital requirements for constructing new uranium enrichment facilities will be paid for by the Federal taxpayer or by private enterprise, and (2) whether a major new and expanding segment of our economy will be under the control of the Federal Government or the private sector.
The private sector has already demonstrated its capability to build and operate uranium enrichment facilities under contracts with the Federal Government. Since it is also willing to provide the capital needed to construct new uranium enrichment plants, I am asking the Congress to enact legislation to enable American industry--with all its financial resources, management capability and technical ingenuity--to provide the enriched uranium needed to fuel nuclear power plants.
I believe this is the proper and correct course for America to take. The alternative is continued Federal monopoly of this service at a cost to the taxpayers of at least $30 billion over the next 15 years.
The enrichment of uranium--which means, in brief, separating the fissionable U-235 in uranium from nonfissionable parts to provide a more potent mixture to fuel nuclear reactors--is an essential step in nuclear power production.
For more than twenty years, the United States Government has supplied the enrichment services for every nuclear reactor in America and for many others throughout the world. Our leadership in this important field has enabled other nations to enjoy the benefits of nuclear power under secure and prudent conditions. At the same time, this effort has been helpful in persuading other nations to accept international safeguards and forego development of nuclear weapons. In addition, the sale of our enrichment services in foreign countries has returned hundreds of millions of dollars to the United States.
These enrichment services have been provided by plants--owned by the Government and operated by private industry--in Oak Ridge, Tennessee, Portsmouth, Ohio, and Paducah, Kentucky. A $1-billion improvement program is now underway to increase the production capacity of these plants by 60 percent. But this expanded capacity cannot meet the anticipated needs of the next 25 years.
The United States is now committed to supply the fuel needs for several hundred nuclear power plants scheduled to begin operation by the early 1980's. Since mid-1974, we have been unable to accept new orders for enriched uranium because our plant capacity--including the $1-billion improvement--is fully committed.
In short, further increases in enrichment capacity depend on construction of additional plants, with seven or eight years required for each plant to become fully operational.
Clearly, decisions must be made and actions taken today if we are to insure an adequate supply of enriched uranium for the nuclear power needs of the future and if we are to retain our position as a major supplier of enriched uranium to the world.
It is my opinion that American private enterprise is best suited to meet those needs. Already, private industry has demonstrated its willingness to pursue the major responsibilities involved in this effort. With proper licensing, safeguards, cooperation and limited assurances from the Federal Government, the private sector can do the job effectively and efficiently--and at enormous savings to the American taxpayer. In this way, direct public benefits will be provided on a long-term basis by private capital, not by taxpayers.
Accordingly, I am proposing legislation to the Congress to authorize Government assurances necessary for private enterprise to enter into this vital field.
A number of compelling reasons argue for private ownership, as well as operation, of uranium enrichment plants. The market for nuclear fuel is predominantly in the private sector. The process of uranium enrichment is clearly industrial in nature.
The uranium enrichment process has the making of a new industry for the private sector in much the same tradition as the process for synthetic rubber-with early Government development eventually being replaced by private enterprise.
One of the strengths of America's free enterprise system is its ability to respond to unusual challenges and opportunities with ingenuity, vigor and flexibility. A significant opportunity may be in store for many firms--old and new--to participate in the growth of the uranium enrichment industry. Just as coal and fuel oil are supplied to electric utilities by private firms on a competitive basis, enriched uranium should be supplied to them in the same fashion in the future.
The energy consumer also stands to benefit. The production of nuclear power now costs between 25 and 50 percent less than electricity produced from fossil fuels. It is not vulnerable to the supply whims or unwarranted price decrees of foreign energy suppliers. And based on the past fifteen years of experience, commercial nuclear power has an unparalleled record of safe operation.
The key technology of the uranium enrichment process is secret and will remain subject to continued classification, safeguards and export controls.
But for several years, a number of qualified American companies have been granted access to the Government's technology under carefully controlled conditions to enable them to assess the commercial potential for private enriching plants.
The Government-owned gaseous diffusion enriching plants have run reliably and with ever-improving efficiency for more than a quarter of a century. One private group has chosen this well-demonstrated process as part of its $3.5 billion proposal to build an enrichment plant serving 90 nuclear reactors here and abroad in the 1980's. Others are studying the potential of the newer gas centrifuge process. Though not yet in large-scale operation, the centrifuge process --which uses much less power than the older process--is almost ready for commercial application.
I believe we must move forward with both technologies and encourage competitive private entry into the enrichment business with both methods. A private gaseous diffusion plant should be built first to provide the most urgently needed increase in capacity, but we should proceed simultaneously with commercial development of the centrifuge process.
With this comprehensive approach, the United States can reopen its uranium enrichment "order book," reassert its supremacy as the world's major supplier of enriched uranium, and develop a strong private enrichment industry to help bolster the national economy.
For a number of reasons, a certain amount of governmental involvement is necessary to make private entry into the uranium enrichment industry successful.
The initial investment requirements for such massive projects are huge. The technology involved is presently owned by the Government. There are safeguards that must be rigidly enforced. The Government has a responsibility to help ensure that these private ventures perform as expected, providing timely and reliable service to both domestic and foreign customers.
Under the legislation I am proposing today, the Energy Research and Development Administration would be authorized to negotiate and enter into contracts with private groups interested in building, owning and operating a gaseous diffusion uranium enrichment plant.
ERDA would also be authorized to negotiate for construction of several centrifuge enrichment plants when more definitive proposals for such projects are made by the private sector.
Contract authority in the amount of $8 billion will be needed, but we expect almost no actual Government expenditures to be involved. In fact, the creation of a private enrichment industry will generate substantial revenues for the United States Treasury through payment of Federal income taxes and compensation for use of Government-owned technology.
Under the proposed arrangements, there will be an opportunity for foreign investment in these plants, although the plants will remain firmly under U.S. control. There will be no sharing of U.S. technology and, there will be limitations on the amount of capacity each plant can commit to foreign customers.
In addition, all exports of plant products will continue to be made pursuant to Governmental Agreements for Cooperation with other Nations. All will be subject to appropriate safeguards to preclude use for other than agreed peaceful purposes.
Foreign investors and customers would not have access to sensitive classified technology. Proposals from American enrichers to share technology would be evaluated separately, and would be subject to careful Government review and approval.
Finally, the plants proposed will be designed and built to produce low enriched fuel which is suitable only for commercial power reactors--not for nuclear explosives.
In the remote event that a proposed private venture did not succeed, this legislation would enable the Government to take actions necessary to assure that plants will be brought on line in time to supply domestic and foreign customers when uranium enrichment services are needed.
I have instructed the Energy Research and Development Administration to implement backup contingency measures, including continuation of conceptual design activities, research and development, and technology assistance to the private sector on a cost-recovery basis.
ERDA would also be able to purchase from a private firm design work on components that could be used in a Government plant in the unlikely event that a venture fails.
Finally I pledge to all customers--domestic and foreign--who place orders with our private suppliers that the United States Government will guarantee that these orders are filled as needed. Those who are first in line with our private sources will be first in line to receive supplies under this assurance. All contracted obligations will be honored.
I also pledge that cooperative agreements made with private firms under the proposed new authority will fully reflect the public interest. In fact, all contracts will be placed before the Congress in advance of their effectiveness. The Congress will have full and complete review of each one.
In sum, the program I am proposing will take maximum advantage of the strength and resourcefulness of industry and Government.
It will reinforce the world leadership we now enjoy in uranium enrichment technology. It will help insure the continued availability of reliable energy for America. It will move America one big step nearer energy independence.
Although the development of a competitive nuclear fuel industry is an important part of our overall energy strategy, we must continue our efforts to conserve the more traditional energy resources on which we have relied for generations. And we must accelerate our exploration of new sources of energy for the future-including solar power, the harnessing of nuclear fusion and development of nuclear breeder reactors which are safe, environmentally sound and reliable.
I ask the Congress for early authorization of this program.
GERALD R. FORD
The White House,
June 26, 1975.
  