
    STATEMENT OF ADMINISTRATION POLICY
(House Rules)
H.R. 2851 - Stop the Importation and Trafficking of Synthetic Analogues Act of 2017(Rep. Katko, R-NY, and 75 cosponsors)
Substitute Amendment to H.R. 5788 - Synthetic Trafficking and Overdose Prevention (STOP) Act of 2018(Rep. Bishop, R-MI)
Addressing the opioid crisis has been one of President Donald J. Trump's top priorities since taking office. This March, he unveiled the bold Initiative to Stop Opioid Abuse and Reduce Drug Supply and Demand (Initiative), which is aimed at addressing every aspect of this crisis, including stopping drugs before they cross the border. The Administration applauds efforts by the Congress to make elements of the President's Initiative a reality. The Administration strongly supports House passage of legislation to reduce the trafficking of synthetic drugs, including synthetic opioids, and to empower a more rapid response to emerging drug threats.
H.R. 2851, the Stop the Importation and Trafficking of Synthetic Analogues Act of 2017, would strengthen the ability of Federal law enforcement to defend our borders against criminals who ship drugs onto our soil. This bill would make needed updates to the Controlled Substances Act (CSA), primarily by establishing "Schedule A" as a new drug schedule. Schedule A would consist of substances that are analogues of certain substances already controlled by Schedules I through V of the CSA. Allowing for analogue substances to be added to Schedule A, rather than to Schedules I through V, would create a more streamlined process that would significantly reduce the time necessary to schedule new synthetic analogue drug threats. Additionally, H.R. 2851 would ensure that those conducting approved scientific research have adequate access to Schedule A substances for those studies.
H.R. 5788, the Synthetic Trafficking and Overdose Prevention (STOP) Act of 2018, would strengthen the ability of Customs and Border Protection (CBP) agents to target their efforts against areas most notorious for producing and trafficking opioids, including fentanyl, and other dangerous substances. This bill would improve the security of the international mail system to prevent abuses by those who would use it to smuggle dangerous opioids and other illicit substances into the United States. H.R. 5788 would further the development and use of technology to detect narcotics, psychoactive substances, illicit fentanyl, and other synthetic opioids in mail. H.R. 5788 would also require the collection of advance electronic information from postal international shippers, as outlined in the President's Initiative. H.R. 5788 would provide for the reimbursement of costs incurred by the U.S. Postal Service (USPS) and CBP in the processing of inbound express mail service and would ensure that other costs to USPS that are associated compliance are absorbed by foreign shippers and postal operators, to the extent practicable and allowable by law.
If these bills were presented to the President, his advisors would recommend that he sign them into law.
  