
    The Clinton Campaign today announced that Washington attorney and Democratic activist Weldon Latham has been named a National Co-Chair of Hillary's campaign.
"My friend Weldon has devoted his career to fostering diversity in public life and the workplace, and I'm honored to have his support," Clinton said.
Latham is a senior partner and Chair of the Corporate Diversity Counseling Group at the international law firm Davis Wright Tremaine, with 30 years of experience in corporate law, crisis management and corporate diversity counseling.
In addition to his legal and business experience, Latham brings a distinguished career in public service to the campaign. He previously served on the Small Business Administration National Advisory Council; as General Deputy Assistant Secretary, U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development; and as Assistant General Counsel, White House Office of Management and Budget.
"Senator Hillary Clinton has a strong vision for America's future," Latham said. "Her hard work on behalf of her constituents and the respect of her colleagues on both sides of the aisle make her uniquely qualified and ready to lead this nation. Among the many formidable skills that Hillary Clinton brings as a presidential candidate is her ability to listen and respond to what Americans are saying. Hillary Clinton translates listening to leadership. Senator Clinton has assembled a team that looks like America, and understands the complex issues that face our nation."
Latham is one of the country's leading experts on discrimination law and corporate diversity. He works with major corporations, government officials and quasi-government agencies when faced with highly-publicized charges of race and gender discrimination. He also advises Fortune 200 CEOs on how to create better and more productive workplaces by fostering diversity and inclusion.
California Congresswoman Loretta Sanchez said, "Weldon has been a trusted advisor to me and many of my colleagues in Congress, particularly on those issues often critical to the diverse communities we represent. I am confident he will bring insight and judgment to Hillary Clinton's campaign."
Latham has been a long-time Democratic Party leader, having been an At-Large Member and Trustee of the Democratic National Committee (DNC), as well as a Vice-Chair of the Democratic Business Council. He was also an Honorary Vice-Chair of the Clinton/Gore Campaign.
Maryland Governor Martin O'Malley said, "Weldon has been a leader in both the Maryland and national Democratic Committees. He inspires his fellow Democrats and I am very pleased that such a prominent fellow Marylander has joined the national Clinton team."
  