
    President George W. Bush today announced his nomination of two individuals to serve in his administration and his nomination of four individuals to serve as members of the federal judiciary.
The President has nominated Nancy Jo Powell to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Pakistan. A career member of the Senior Foreign Service, Ms. Powell has served as Chief of Mission in Accra since September 2001. She was previously the Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary of State in the Bureau of African Affairs. From 1997 to 1999, she was Ambassador to Uganda. Her previous overseas assignments include service as Deputy Chief of Mission in Dhaka and Lome, Political Officer in Dehli and Islamabad, and Principal Officer in Calcutta. Her other assignments in Washington include service as a refugee officer for Asia in the Bureau of Refugee Affairs and as a political/economic officer in the Office of India, Nepal, Sri Lanka, Bhutan and Maldives Affairs. Ambassador Powell is a graduate of University of Northern Iowa.
The President intends to nominate David L. Lyon to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Fiji Islands, Republic of Nauru, the Kingdom of Tonga and Tuvalu. A career member of the Senior Foreign Service, he is currently the Consul General in Melbourne. Before being assigned to his post in Melbourne, Lyon was Minister Counselor for Consular Affairs in Beijing. His previous overseas assignments include service as Consular Officer in Bangkok, Manila, Accra, Recife and Lagos. His previous assignments include service as Deputy Director and Director of the Office of Regional Affairs in the Bureau of African Affairs and as an office director in the Bureau of International Narcotics Matters. Lyon is a graduate of Swarthmore College.
The President has nominated Richard A. Griffin of Michgan to be a United States Circuit Judge for the Sixth Circuit.
The President has nominated Linda R. Reade of Iowa to be a United States District Judge for the Northern District of Iowa.
The President has nominated Daniel Hovland of North Dakota to be a United States District Judge for the District of North Dakota.
The President has nominated Thomas W. Phillips of Tennessee to be United States District Judge for the Eastern District of Tennessee.
  