
    Since the beginning of my administration, I have been concerned about the severe economic distress occurring in southeastern Ohio as a result of the steady loss of mining jobs in that area. At my direction, efforts have been undertaken within the administration to develop solutions to this problem. I am very pleased that today the Environmental Protection Agency has announced a series of actions which will not only preserve more than 7,000 jobs in southeastern Ohio, but will serve as the foundation for further action to solve this area's economic difficulties.
Senators Glenn and Metzenbaum and Congressman Applegate, as well as a number of State and local leaders in Ohio, are to be applauded by the citizens of Ohio for helping the administration focus its resources toward developing a solution to this serious problem.
The actions taken today by EPA will address the economic disruption problem in the following ways:
—EPA proposes to revise, after a 60-day comment period, the permissible emission levels at two Cleveland area coal-powered utilities. The revisions, which are based on new emissions data, would permit the plants to continue to burn Ohio highsulfur coal if, as EPA now believes, this revision is proven to be consistent with all of the requirements of the Clean Air Act. This action would preserve 2,150 mining jobs and 3,225 jobs dependent on the mining jobs.
—EPA has reached an agreement—in principle—with another Ohio utility which would permit it to comply with clean air standards by using washed Ohio high-sulfur coal. This would preserve 670 mining jobs and 1,005 mine-dependent jobs.
—The CEI proposal and EPA's action in response is an example of the receptivity of the Agency to this problem. Other revisions will be proposed by EPA if warranted on their merits. EPA is currently reviewing proposed revisions.
As a result of these EPA actions, the administration will not proceed at this time with action under Section 125 of the Clean Air Act. The need for any action under that section will be evaluated at a later time, when the impact of the action taken today can be more fully assessed.
I am particularly gratified that the EPA has taken actions which, while preserving Ohio jobs, will neither sacrifice public health nor cause higher utility bills for Ohio's consumers. In my view, clean air must be preserved, and Ohio's consumers should not be forced at this time to bear unnecessary additional utility costs.
Finally, I recognize that the steps EPA is taking will not save every mining job which has been lost in recent times in southeastern Ohio. Under existing laws, there is no step that EPA or any Federal agency can take to accomplish that. But today's action is significant, for it represents the first major step taken by the Federal Government which will help preserve Ohio mining jobs.
It may be possible in the future to expand on today's action. Within the administration, we will continue our efforts in that direction. With the cooperation of State and local officials, those in the coal mining industry, and the Ohio utilities, I am hopeful that we can succeed.
  