
    NOMINATIONS SENT TO THE SENATE:
Rossie David Alston, Jr., of Virginia, to be United States District Judge for the Eastern District of Virginia, vice Gerald Bruce Lee, retired.
Irving Bailey, of Florida, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation for a term expiring December 17, 2018, vice Matthew Maxwell Taylor Kennedy, term expired.
Irving Bailey, of Florida, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation for a term expiring December 17, 2021. (Reappointment)
M. Miller Baker, of Virginia, to be a Judge of the United States Court of International Trade, vice Donald C. Pogue, retired.
Brian J. Bulatao, of Texas, to be an Under Secretary of State (Management), vice Patrick Francis Kennedy.
Karen S. Evans, of West Virginia, to be an Assistant Secretary of Energy (Cybersecurity, Energy Security and Emergency Response). (New Position)
Shannon Lee Goessling, of Florida, to be Director of the Violence Against Women Office, Department of Justice, vice Susan B. Carbon.
Ellen E. McCarthy, of Virginia, to be an Assistant Secretary of State (Intelligence and Research), vice Daniel Bennett Smith.
Eric E. Murphy, of Ohio, to be United States Circuit Judge for the Sixth Circuit, vice Alice M. Batchelder, retired.
Mary Bridget Neumayr, of Virginia, to be a Member of the Council on Environmental Quality, vice Nancy Helen Sutley.
Carl J. Nichols, of the District of Columbia, to be United States District Judge for the District of Columbia, vice Richard W. Roberts, retired.
Chad A. Readler, of Ohio, to be United States Circuit Judge for the Sixth Circuit, vice Deborah L. Cook, retiring.
Timothy M. Reif, of the District of Columbia, to be a Judge of the United States Court of International Trade, vice Richard K. Eaton, retired.
Mary M. Rowland, of Illinois, to be United States District Judge for the Northern District of Illinois, vice Amy J. St. Eve, elevated.
Steven C. Seeger, of Illinois, to be United States District Judge for the Northern District of Illinois, vice James B. Zagel, retired.
Daniel Simmons, of Virginia, to be an Assistant Secretary of Energy (Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy), vice David T. Danielson.
Robert C. Tapella, of Virginia, to be Director of the Government Publishing Office, vice Davita Vance-Cooks.
WITHDRAWAL SENT TO THE SENATE:
Eric M. Ueland, of Oregon, to be an Under Secretary of State (Management), vice Patrick Francis Kennedy, which was sent to the Senate on January 8, 2018.
  