
    WASHINGTON, DC – Today, President Barack Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individual to a key Administration post:
•     Bonnie A. Barsamian – Member, Board of Directors of the Securities Investor Protection Corporation
President Obama also announced his intent to appoint the following individual to a key Administration post:
•     Joyce St. Clair - Member, Advisory Committee to the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation
President Obama said, "I am pleased to announce that these experienced and committed individuals have decided to serve our country. I look forward to working with them."
President Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individual to a key Administration post:
Bonnie A. Barsamian, Nominee for Member, Board of Directors of the Securities Investor Protection Corporation 
Bonnie A. Barsamian is Partner at the New York office of Baker Botts L.L.P, a position she has held since 2013. Ms. Barsamian served as Special Counsel at Fried, Frank, Harris, Shriver & Jacobson LLP from 2011 to 2013. From 2004 to 2011, Ms. Barsamian was Partner and the Co-Head of the Global Corporate Finance Practice at Dechert LLP. She was an associate, then Partner at Clifford Chance US LLP, and its predecessor firm, Rogers & Wells LLP between 1989 and 2004. Ms. Barsamian has held multiple volunteer roles at the Amherst College, serving on the Trustee Nominating Committee from 2008 to 2011 and as Class Chair of the 1821 Society since 2004. Ms. Barsamian received a B.A. from Amherst College and a J.D. from the University of Chicago Law School.
President Obama announced his intent to appoint the following individual to a key Administration post:
Joyce St. Clair, Appointee for Member, Advisory Committee to the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation
Joyce St. Clair is the Chief Capital Management Officer at Northern Trust and a member of the firm's Executive Management group. She has held a series of management positions at the Northern Trust Corporation since 1992, and has held the rank of Executive Vice President there since 2007. Prior to joining Northern Trust, Ms. St. Clair was an Associate Partner at Anderson Consulting, now Accenture, in their Financial Services Group in Chicago. She has served as a Director of Northern Trust Fund Services (Ireland) Limited and Northern Trust Investor Services (Ireland) Limited. Ms. St. Clair received a B.S. from Indiana University and an M.B.A. from the University of Chicago.
  