
    Today, Romney for President released a new web video, "Happy Father's Day, Dad." On this Father's Day, the Romney boys share their favorite memories about their dad.
To View "Happy Father's Day, Dad" Please See: http://mi.tt/MaQ4gu
AD FACTS: Script For "Happy Father's Day, Dad"
BEN ROMNEY: "My dad didn't have a playful side—I'm just kidding."
TAGG ROMNEY: "He was a goofball. He loved to horse around."
MATT ROMNEY: "A lot of times he just got confused for one of the boys."
BEN ROMNEY: "Oh my gosh. My dad has legendary pranks."
MATT ROMNEY: "He'd be smelling this butter it's like 'This butter turned. Smell how awful this is.' And you'd go in and smell it and he'd put your nose in it."
JOSH ROMNEY: "Just a while ago he did it to my son. 'Wyatt, you got to smell this.' And Wyatt smelled and got the whole plate of whipped cream in the face. And Wyatt was totally shocked—didn't think Papa would ever do something like that."
CRAIG ROMNEY: "Josh had a really good one. He hates to be scared—hates it. We had this typical basement—unfinished, low ceilings, and kind of dark and scary. And it has one of those lights where you have to walk for about five feet and there's a light on the string and you pull the light. Josh heard my dad coming down the stairs and he was down there so he turned off the light and kind of hid in the corner. As my dad went to go grab the light switch, he grabbed his arm. Josh grabbed my dad's arm and just scared the pants off of him."
MATT ROMNEY: "And Josh said, 'It's me! It's me!' He goes, 'I know!'"
JOSH ROMNEY: "And then he looks for the light, turns it on, looks at me and goes, 'Was it worth it?' And I'm laughing and going, 'I think so.' By the end, he's kind of on top of me, wrestling me. My mom would always threaten us; say 'You got to stop scaring your dad. He's going to have a heart attack one of these days.'"
CRAIG ROMNEY: "Matt likes to call him 'The Great Entertainer.' So, like, whenever people are around he wants to make sure people are having a good time. 'You need a soft drink? You need something to eat? You guys okay? You having fun? Like, he wants to make sure everyone's having a good time and he seems to take that approach with everything in life."
BEN ROMNEY: "Every Saturday morning, my dad, coming in, waking us up and saying 'Okay, it's time to get out in the yard. Do some work.' And so we'd all go out together and do some yard work."
TAGG ROMNEY: "He is up at the crack of dawn, doing a project, fixing the boiler."
BEN ROMNEY: "He wanted to spend it with his family and he wanted to spend it making an impression on his family."
JOSH ROMNEY: "He loves to help people and he does it in a very unassuming, very anonymous way."
TAGG ROMNEY: "He'd find out someone in the community had run out of money to heat their home. It was Christmastime. So he loaded us in the car. We went outside and we chopped the firewood, loaded up in the car and drove it down so it would get her through the end of the month.
JOSH ROMNEY: "I remember my dad going over and shoveling their walkway when it snowed—a nice family that my dad really cared for, for a long time."
BEN ROMNEY: "That was something that was very important to him and something that it was important for him to teach us as well."
TAGG ROMNEY: "It's just a part of who he is and I think it's been a part of who he is for a long time."
VIDEO TEXT: "To all the dads, Happy Father's Day"
VIDEO TEXT: "Happy Father's Day, Dad! Love, the boys"
  