
    Speaking before a large crowd of Oklahomans tonight, Governor Kevin Stitt (R-OK) endorsed Ron DeSantis for president.
"Governor DeSantis is a strong conservative and principled leader, and I am proud to endorse him for president," Governor Stitt said. *"As fellow Governors during COVID, DeSantis did not surrender states' rights and individual liberties over to groupthink. In this election cycle, Oklahomans will remember that DeSantis was one of the few who never backed down in the face of adversity, because DeSantis operated with dogged conviction and shared our values for a limited government and free country. *
Stitt continued: "As a proven leader, DeSantis has boldly delivered results for the people of Florida that laid the groundwork for a booming economy, an education system focused on student outcomes, and better infrastructure for working families. To deliver these same results all across America and unwind the disastrous liberal mandates of the Biden administration is going to demand a candidate who can win and keep winning as a two-term president. I am confident that leader is Ron DeSantis."
Stitt's endorsement comes on the heels of 20 Oklahoma state legislators and former NASA Administrator and U.S. Congressman Jim Bridenstine (OK-01), who was a member of the House Freedom Caucus and also endorsed Governor DeSantis earlier this week.
The full list of Oklahoma endorsements is below:


Governor Kevin Stitt


Former NASA Administrator and U.S. Congressman Jim Bridenstine


Senator Lonnie Paxton (SD 23)


Senator Chris Kidd (SD 31)


Senator Roland Pederson (SD 19)


Senator John Michael Montgomery (SD 32)


Senator Brent Howard (SD 38)


Majority Floor Leader Representative Jon Echols (HD 90)


Deputy Majority Leader Representative Trey Caldwell (HD 63)


Deputy Floor Leader Representative John Pfeiffer (HD 38)


Representative Mike Osburn (HD 81)


Representative Neil Hays (HD 13)


Representative Ryan Martinez (HD 39)


Representative Nick Archer (HD 55)


Representative Anthony Moore (HD 57)


Representative Dell Kerbs (HD 26)


Representative Mark Lepak (HD 9)


Representative Josh West (HD 5)


Representative Chris Kannady (HD 91)


Representative Chad Caldwell (HD 40)


Representative Terry O'Donnell (HD 23)


Representative Chris Sneed (HD 14)


MEDIA AVAILABILITYMedia interested in interviewing Governor Stitt about his endorsement should reach out to [email protected].
  