
    The following listing contains releases of the White House Press Office which are not included in this issue.
Released June 14, 1979
Advance text: remarks on arrival in Vienna, Austria
Released June 16, 1979
News conference: on the U.S.-Soviet bilateral meetings by Jody Powell, Press Secretary to the President, and Leonid Zamyatin, Chief, International Information Section, Central Committee, Communist Party of the Soviet Union
Advance text: toast at a working dinner at the U.S. Ambassador's residence
Released June 17, 1979
News conference: on the U.S.-Soviet bilateral meetings—by Mr. Powell and Mr. Zamyatin Advance text: toast at a working dinner at the Soviet Embassy
Released June 18, 1979
Advance text: remarks at the signing ceremony for the strategic arms limitation treaty News conference: on the strategic arms limitation treaty—by Mr. Powell, Ambassador Ralph Earle, chief negotiator for SALT II, Deputy Assistant Secretary of State Robert Barry, Mark Ramee, assistant to Ambassador Earle, and Jerrold Schecter, Associate Press Secretary
Advance text: address on the strategic arms limitation treaty before a joint session of Congress
Released June 19, 1979
News conference: on rural transportation initiatives—by Jack H. Watson, Jr., Assistant to the President for Intergovernmental Affairs, Secretary of Agriculture Bob Bergland, Secretary of Labor Ray Marshall, Secretary of Transportation Brock Adams, Assistant Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare Arabella Martinez, Senator Patrick J. Leahy of Vermont, and Representative Gillis W. Long of Louisiana Fact sheet: rural transportation initiatives
News conference: on Multilateral Trade Negotiations legislation—by Ambassador Robert S. Strauss, Special Representative for Trade Negotiations
Released June 20, 1979
News conference: on the President's message to Congress on solar energy—by Stuart E. Eizenstat, Assistant to the President for Domestic Affairs and Policy, and Secretary of Energy James R. Schlesinger
Fact sheet: the President's message to Congress on solar energy
Fact sheet: White House solar system
Released June 21, 1979
Statements: support for the proposed trucking deregulation legislation by government, business, and civic leaders
News conference: on the proposed trucking deregulation legislation—by Senators Howard W. Cannon of Nevada and Charles H. Percy of Illinois, Secretary Adams, and Alfred E. Kahn, Advisor to the President on Inflation
News conference: on the independent truckers' strikes—by William H. Webster, Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, and Philip Heymann, Assistant Attorney General, Department of Justice
Released June 22, 1979
News conference: on the U.S. Court of Appeals decision on Federal procurement policy measures as part of the anti-inflation program—by Mr. Kahn
News conference: on the independent truckers' strikes—by Mr. Eizenstat
  