
    "For more than three years, President Obama's rhetoric and record have left Nevada's job creators in a bind. Instead of pushing pro-growth policies that will help improve our economy, President Obama has repeatedly made it harder for businesses to grow, thrive, and create new jobs. As president, Mitt Romney will get to work on day one to give job creators the confidence they need to put Americans back to work." –Andrea Saul, Romney Campaign Spokesperson
During His Time In Office, President Obama Has Attacked Las Vegas' Tourism Industry:
For Years, Nevada Residents Have Been "Fuming" Over Comments From President Obama That "They Perceived As Rants Against The Tourism Industry." "But Nevada state officials and residents of this economically ravaged state are still fuming over comments they perceived as rants against the tourism industry. Las Vegas city leaders have been feuding with [President Obama] over the comments since he first made them two years ago..." (Cristina Silva, "Las Vegas Fumes Over Obama's Anti-Tourism Rant," The Associated Press, 10/24/11)
President Obama, In 2010: "This Isn't How Responsible Families Do Their Budgets. ... You Don't Blow A Bunch Of Cash In Vegas When You're Trying To Save For College." OBAMA: "This isn't how responsible families do their budgets. When times are tough, you tighten your belts. ... You don't go buying a boat when you can barely pay your mortgage. You don't blow a bunch of cash in Vegas when you're trying to save for college. You prioritize. You make tough choices. And it's time your government did the same." (President Barack Obama, Remarks, Nashua, NH, 2/2/10)
President Obama's Irresponsible Comments Haven't Made The Recovery Any Easier For Job Creators In Nevada:
Las Vegas Chamber Of Commerce's Michael Bonner, On President Obama's Comments: "There Was A Measurable Impact On Convention And Trade Business Following Those Comments...""Michael Bonner, chairman of the Las Vegas Chamber of Commerce, said Obama's critics read too much into his Vegas comments. 'There was a measurable impact on convention and trade business following those comments, but the intent of the president was certainly not to damage the economy here,' said Bonner, who has donated to Democratic and Republican candidates in recent years." (Cristina Silva, "Las Vegas Fumes Over Obama's Anti-Tourism Rant," The Associated Press, 10/24/11)
Las Vegas Activity Planners Complained That President Obama Had "Unfairly" Portrayed The City "And The Entire Meeting And Incentive Industry" In A "Negative Light." "'We've had about six major groups cancel,' said Karen Gordon, president of the destination management company Activity Planners in Las Vegas. 'Las Vegas and the entire meeting and incentive industry is being unfairly portrayed in a negative light.'" (Benjamin Spillman, "Politicians, Businesspeople Respond To Obama Comment," Las Vegas Review-Journal, 2/11/09)
Senator Harry Reid Complained That "The President Needs To Lay Off Las Vegas And Stop Making It The Poster Child For Where People Shouldn't Be Spending Their Money." REID: "I just spoke to the White House and told them that while the president is correct that people saving for college need to be fiscally responsible, the president needs to lay off Las Vegas and stop making it the poster child for where people shouldn't be spending their money. ... To truly reenergize our economy, we need people to travel to Las Vegas. I would much rather tourists and business travelers spend their money in Las Vegas than spend it overseas." ("Obama Responds To Harry Reid Criticism," Las Vegas Sun, 2/2/10)
Senator Reid: "To Truly Reenergize Our Economy, We Need People To Travel To Las Vegas. I Would Much Rather Tourists And Business Travelers Spend Their Money In Las Vegas Than Spend It Overseas." ("Complete Statements From Lawmakers On President Obama's Las Vegas Remarks," KTNV, 6/10/11)
The Results Of President Obama's Hostility To Job Creators? Nevada Is Suffering From Unemployment That Remains Far Above The National Average:
Under President Obama, Nevada's Unemployment Rate Has Increased From 9.6% To 11.7%. (Bureau Of Labor Statistics, www.bls.gov, 6/6/12)
Under President Obama, The Unemployment Rate In Las Vegas Has Increased From 9.9% To 12.0%. (Bureau Of Labor Statistics, www.bls.gov, 6/6/12)
Since President Obama Took Office, Nevada Has Lost 68,200 Jobs. (Bureau Of Labor Statistics, www.bls.gov, 6/6/12)
In April 2012, 158,616 Nevadan Workers Were Unemployed. (Bureau Of Labor Statistics, www.bls.gov, 6/6/12)
Last Year, Nevada's Teenagers Suffered From An Average Unemployment Rate Of 31.9%. (Bureau Of Labor Statistics, www.bls.gov, 6/6/12)
And It's Not Just In Nevada That President Obama's Policies Are Hurting Job Creators:
The Average Number Of New Business Enterprises Under President Obama Is Approximately 100,000 Fewer Per Year Than During President Bush's Second Term. (Bureau Of Labor Statistics, www.bls.gov, Accessed 5/27/12)
New Business Startups Are At 30-Year Lows. "Not only the rate, but the raw numbers have declined, he said. In 1977, SBA figures show, Americans started 563,325 businesses with employees. In 2009, despite an increase in the population, they started 403,765. And no previous valleys dipped so low. A spreadsheet from Shane shows that neither the rate nor number of startups since 1977 ever hit the most recent level." (Tom Feran, "U.S. House Speaker John Boehner Says New Business Startups Are At The Lowest Levels In 30 Years," PolitiFact.com, 3/23/12)
President Obama's Tax Plans Would Come "At The Expense Of Smaller Businesses That File As Individuals" By Hiking Their Marginal Rates To "41% Or More." "By contrast, President Obama's proposal yesterday (see below) to cut the corporate rate to 28% from 35% wouldn't apply to this 'pass-through' business income. It would thus favor big corporations at the expense of smaller businesses that file as individuals and would see their marginal rate rise to 41% or more under Mr. Obama's plan to raise individual tax rates." (Editorial, "Romney's Tax Reboot," The Wall Street Journal, 2/23/12)
Approximately 50% Of Private Sector Employees Work At Firms That File Their Taxes Through The Individual Tax Code. "In 2008, flow-through businesses: Accounted for nearly 95 percent of all business entities; Employed 54 percent of the private sector work force; and, Reported 36 percent of all business receipts. Moreover, between 2004 and 2008 individual owners of flow-through business reported 54 percent of all business net income and paid 44 percent of all federal business income taxes." (Robert Carroll and Gerald Prante, "The Flow-Through Business Sector And Tax Reform," Ernst & Young, 4/11)
Nearly Three-Quarters Of Small-Business Owners Blame Obamacare For Impeding Job Creation. "As part of the explanation for the general economic pessimism, 78 percent of small businesses believe that taxation, regulation and legislation from Washington make it harder for businesses to hire more employees — and 74 percent blame the recent health care reforms passed by the Obama administration for creating an impediment to job creation." (Tim Mak, "Chamber Poll: Small Biz Blames D.C.," Politico, 1/18/12)
Gallup: Nearly Half Of Small-Business Owners Named Concern Over Government Regulations And Rising Health Care Costs As Reasons For Why They Were Not Hiring New Employees. (Dennis Jacobe, "Health Costs, Gov't Regulations Curb Small Business Hiring," Gallup, 2/15/12)
  