
    Last year at Evian we agreed "to support the development of cleaner, sustainable and more efficient technologies." We reaffirm our conviction that "cooperative scientific research on transformation technologies offers potential to improve public health by cutting pollution and reduce greenhouse gas emission to address the challenge of global climate change."
As we continue to implement the G8 Action Plan on Science and Technology for Sustainable Development adopted at Evian, we commit to launching the Reduce, Reuse, and Recycle ("3R") Initiative to encourage more efficient use of resources and materials. The initiative will be formally launched in the coming year at a ministerial meeting in Japan.
Reduce, Reuse and Recycle Initiative
We will launch the Reduce, Reuse, and Recycle ("3R") Initiative at a Ministerial Conference in spring 2005 hosted by the Government of Japan. In cooperation with relevant international organizations such as the OECD, we will seek through this initiative to:

Reduce waste, Reuse and Recycle resources and products to the extent economically feasible;
Reduce barriers to the international flow of goods and materials for recycling and remanufacturing, recycled and remanufactured products, and cleaner, more efficient technologies, consistent with existing environmental and trade obligations and frameworks;
Encourage cooperation among various stakeholders (central governments, local governments, the private sector, NGOs and communities), including voluntary and market-based activities;
Promote science and technology suitable for 3Rs; and
Cooperate with developing countries in such areas as capacity building, raising public awareness, human resource development and implementation of recycling projects.

In the period since Evian our actions taken to implement the Evian S&T Action Plan include:
Cleaner, More Efficient Energy

Launched the International Partnership for a Hydrogen Economy (IPHE). Developing and implementing IPHE Implementation-Liaison Committee work plan.
Launched the Carbon Sequestration Leadership Forum (CSLF). Working to approve first set of CSLF projects, taking into account environmental assessments, and various countries' developing or supporting complementary technologies for low- or zero-emission coal-fired power plants.
Supported and advanced international cooperation to facilitate wider use of renewable energy and energy efficiency technologies through such initiatives as the Renewable Energy and Energy Efficiency Partnership (REEEP) and the Bonn International Conference for Renewable Energies. Continuing implementation and follow up.
Those countries that will continue to use nuclear energy and that are members of the Generation IV International Forum (GIF) drafted multilateral arrangements on next-generation nuclear energy technologies. Work continuing on six high-priority next-generation nuclear energy systems.

Resource Material Flows

Helped to create a new OECD material flows and resource productivity work plan.
Work ongoing through the WTO Doha Development Agenda to reduce or, as appropriate, eliminate trade barriers to environmental goods and services.

Global Observation
Held First and Second Earth Observation Summits (EOS) and adopted a Framework document on a Global Earth Observation System of Systems (GEOSS). Planning to adopt a final 10-year strategic implementation plan on GEOSS at Third EOS in 2005 and working to identify the international mechanism to provide coordination and oversight for GEOSS.
Agriculture and Biodiversity

Provided technical solutions to global agricultural problems at the Ministerial Conference and Expo on Agriculture Science and Technology. Action on partnerships, policies and applications are planned for the Ministerial Conference on Harnessing Science and Technology to Improve Agricultural Productivity in Africa.
Partnered with the Consultative Group for International Agricultural Research, African Agricultural Technology Forum, and other existing structures at different levels, to improve agricultural technology use and productivity in Africa and other poor regions so as to promote "hardier crops for healthier people" respecting biodiversity protection. Brought the International Treaty for Plant Genetic Resources for Food and Agriculture into force. Seeking to accelerate negotiations over a standard material transfer agreement to facilitate the treaty's implementation.
Made preparations for the Paris Conference on Biodiversity to be held in January 2005.
Promoted sustainable forest management and control of illegal logging through Asia Forest Partnership, Congo Basin Forest Partnership, and others.

Cross Cutting Action
Held senior G-8 policy and research officials meeting. Planning follow-up meeting to review proposals.
  