
    
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
Article: Gingrich promises to restore competitiveness - Reuters
Republican White House hopeful Newt Gingrich promised on Thursday to slash taxes, eliminate regulations and restore American competitiveness he said was stifled by President Barack Obama's "European socialism."
Gingrich, the former speaker of the House of Representatives, said he will wage a philosophical and idea-oriented presidential campaign that will lead a Republican revival in 2012.
"Obama is going to fail," Gingrich told hundreds of Republican activists and officials at the Republican Leadership Conference in New Orleans, describing the president's motto as "borrow from the Chinese to pay the Brazilians."
Gingrich is the first of a handful of presidential hopefuls who will speak to the three-day conference, which is part pep rally and part strategy session as Republicans launch their race for the nomination to challenge Obama in 2012.
In a broad-ranging speech, Gingrich lashed out at activist judges, mocked Washington's reliance on regulation and handouts and said his first act as president would be to sign up to 200 executive orders based on ideas from the public.

Read the full original article here.
---
Article: Professor Newt Criticizes President Obama's 'Bad Policies' - ABC News
In a speech that evoked rounds of laughter and applause, Newt Gingrich returned to his professorial style, lecturing the crowd on why President Obama's policies are negatively impacting the country and how he plans to help Republicans return to power in the executive and legislative branches.
"I certainly want to win the presidency, but we want to win it as a team in which we have House and Senate candidates who are on the same page going in the same direction, and the team arrives in Washington, and on Jan. 20, 2013, the team begins to change everything," Gingrich said in his speech at the Republican Leadership Conference in New Orleans.
Gingrich, whose 41-minute speech was delivered without teleprompter or prepared notes, spent a large portion of the speech lambasting the "bad policies" Obama has adopted as president. He criticized Obama's energy policies for "killing jobs in Louisiana" along with condemning Obama's statement that "shovel-ready" projects weren't as "shovel-ready" as he anticipated.

Read the full original article here.
  