
    STATEMENT OF ADMINISTRATION POLICY
(Senate)(Sen. Scott, R-SC, and 48 cosponsors)
The Administration strongly supports Senate passage of S. 3985, the JUSTICE Act. This legislation takes a thoughtful, targeted approach to policing that builds on the Administration's actions to instill the highest standards into our law enforcement agencies while ensuring that police can do their jobs and keep our communities safe.
The Administration supports commonsense policies to promote high-quality law enforcement practices that keep communities and police officers safe. During the past year, President Trump has signed two Executive Orders to help improve the justice system. In October 2019, he signed Executive Order 13896, which directed the Attorney General to establish the Commission on Law Enforcement and the Administration of Justice. This Commission, the first of its kind since the 1960s, is enhancing public safety and supporting the well-ordered administration of justice. Additionally, earlier this month, the President signed Executive Order 13929, titled "Safe Policing for Safe Communities," which encourages police departments nationwide to meet the most current professional standards for the use of force. Under this second Executive Order, the Attorney General will allocate certain grant funding only to those State and local law enforcement agencies that meet high standards regarding use of force and de-escalation. The Order also provides incentives for Federal, State, local, tribal, and territorial law enforcement agencies to share information using a nationwide database to track judgments against law enforcement officers for excessive use of force. Overall, it reflects commonsense policy solutions based on input from a wide range of stakeholders.
The JUSTICE Act builds on these efforts. Rather than imposing a one-size-fits-all solution at the Federal level, this legislation incentivizes best practices throughout the country. The JUSTICE Act would also take important steps to improve nationwide law enforcement reporting of data regarding uses of force, weapons discharge, and uses of other law enforcement techniques.
The Administration looks forward to working with the Congress on this meaningful legislation.
  