
    Mr. President, our very distinguished guests, and ladies and gentlemen:
Mr. President, we have been greatly touched by your generous remarks, and we have also been enormously moved by the reception we have received as we passed through the streets of Cairo today. You have spoken of the fact that we stand here at a time in history which could well prove to be not only a landmark but which could well be remembered centuries from now as one of those great turning points which affects mankind for the better.
It has been too long that our two nations have been through a period of misunderstanding and noncooperation, and today marks the day when, by your meeting with the President of the United States--the two Presidents of Egypt and the United States meeting together--we cement the foundations of a new relationship, a new relationship between two great peoples, two great peoples who will dedicate themselves in the future to working together for great causes.
I speak first of the cause of progress for the people of Egypt and for our own people. As we traveled through the streets and saw hundreds of thousands of people greeting us--as you have said, from their hearts--it made us both realize what we owe to them and what we owe to future generations. And so, we want to work together for progress, economic progress for the people of Egypt, for all peoples in this area and in the world.
And the United States welcomes the opportunity to cooperate with you and your government in your programs for economic progress to which you are devoting and dedicating so much of your very great energies today.
And also, as we saw those hundreds of thousands of people, we thought of another great goal toward which we shall and will work together, that is, the goal of peace. We have already made progress toward that goal. Certain roadblocks along the long and difficult road toward permanent peace have been removed. The disengagement on the Egyptian-Israeli front and then later on the Syrian-Israeli front laid the foundation for further progress in the future.
Let us today recognize that as we meet then our goals are twofold: economic progress, progress in all fields for the people of your country, the people of this area; and peace, peace which is permanent and just and equitable, because without peace, there can be no progress and without progress and hope there can be no peace.
And, Mr. President, finally, I should like in the presence of your people to pay a tribute to you.
The historians years later will perhaps see all of these great events in perspective, but one fact stands out today: that without the wisdom, without the vision, without the courage, without the statesmanship of President Sadat of Egypt, we would not have made the progress toward peace that we have made, and the world owes him a great debt for what he has done.
And it is for this reason, combined with the reason that my wife and I have such pleasant memories of our previous visit to Egypt in 1963, where we met so many of your people--but it is for this reason that I have looked forward to this moment to meeting you, to talking to you personally and officially about the problems that we face in the future, in which our two great peoples now at last will be working together.
Progress at home and peace, not only in this area but for all peoples in the world, these are our goals, and together we are privileged to have the opportunity to work for such great goals.
  