
    The President today announced the appointments of the 1992 - 93 White House fellows. This is the 28th class of fellows since the program was established in 1964. Fifteen fellows were chosen from nearly 700 applicants who were screened by 11 regional panels. The President's Commission on White House Fellowships, chaired by Ronna Romney, interviewed the 33 national finalists prior to recommending the 15 persons to the President. Their year of Government service will begin September 1, 1992.
Fellows serve for one year as members of the White House staff or as special assistants to members of the Cabinet. In addition to the work assignments, the fellowship includes an education program that parallels and broadens the unique experience of working at the highest levels of the Federal Government. The program is open to U.S. citizens in the early stages of their careers and from all occupations and professions. Federal Government employees are not eligible, with the exception of career Armed Forces personnel. Leadership, character, intellectual and professional ability, and commitment to community and national service are the principal criteria employed in the selection of fellows.
Applications for the 1993 - 94 program may be obtained by contacting the President's Commission on White House Fellowships, 712 Jackson Place, NW, Washington, DC 20503.
The 1992 - 93 White House fellows are:
Belknap, Margaret H., of Shorewood, WI, a captain in the U.S. Army, is permanent associate professor in the department of systems engineering at the U.S. Military Academy. A 1981 graduate of the U.S. Military Academy, West Point, NY, Captain Belknap was commissioned in the Signal Corps and has served in a variety of tactical and strategic communications positions in the Pacific. She earned an M.S.E. in operations research from the University of Michigan in 1989. Captain Belknap was born May 23, 1959, in Shorewood, WI.
Campbell, Kurt M., of Boston, MA, is associate professor of public policy and international relations and assistant director of the Center for Science and International Affairs at the John F. Kennedy School of Government. Dr. Campbell is a Navy Reserve officer currently serving in the Pentagon and was a distinguished Marshall scholar at Oxford University, England. He recently received a major grant from the Carnegie Corp. of New York to study military matters in the former Soviet Union. He received his B.A. in science, technology, and public affairs from the University of California, San Diego, in 1980; certificate of Soviet studies and music, University of Erevan, Soviet Armenia, in 1979; and received his Ph.D. in international relations from Oxford University in 1984. Dr. Campbell was born August 27, 1957, in Fresno, CA.
Froman, Michael B.G., of San Anselmo, CA, is an international lawyer who has been directing the American Bar Association's pro bono legal assistance project in Albania. He received his juris doctorate from Harvard Law School in 1991 and graduated magna cum laude. Mr. Froman was a recipient of a Fulbright scholarship and a MacArthur Foundation fellowship which enabled him to complete a doctorate in international relations at Oxford University in 1988. He received a bachelor of arts, summa cum laude, from Princeton University in public and international affairs in 1985. Mr. Froman was born on August 20, 1962, in San Rafael, CA.
Gill, Steven L., of Nashville, TN, is a partner with the law firm of Boult, Cummings, Conners & Berry and a member of the adjunct faculty at Belmont University. He received his bachelor of arts degree, cum laude, in honors history at the University of Tennessee in 1979. He obtained his law degree at the University of Tennessee in 1982. After law school, he served as campaign coordinator for the reelection of Tennessee Governor Lamar Alexander. In 1988, Mr. Gill was selected to study in Tokyo as a guest of the Japanese Government. He has since been a leader in promoting Tennessee as a site for international trade and investment. Mr. Gill was born November 15, 1956, in Knoxville, TN.
Golub, Lawrence E., of New York, NY, is a managing director of Wasserstein Perella Capital Markets, a division of the investment banking firm Wasserstein Perella & Co., Inc. He received his bachelor's degree in economics, magna cum laude, in 1980 from Harvard University and earned a law degree, magna cum laude, in 1984 from Harvard Law School, where he was elected to the Harvard Law Review. He earned an M.B.A. degree with high distinction from Harvard Business School in 1984, where he was selected as a Baker scholar. He is also a director of Bayou Steel Corp. Mr. Golub was born October 3, 1959, in New York, NY.
Gordon, Robert L., III, of Colorado Springs, CO, is a major in the U.S. Army and presently serves as the executive officer of the department of social sciences at the U.S. Military Academy, West Point. He graduated with a degree in engineering and additional concentration in public policy and national security from the U.S. Military Academy, West Point, in 1979. He was commissioned as an artillery officer and served in artillery units in the 4th Infantry Division, Fort Carson, CO. Major Gordon attended graduate school at Princeton University's Woodrow Wilson School for Public and International Affairs in 1989. He is a graduate of the Combined Armed Services Staff School at Fort Leavenworth. Major Gordon was born March 15, 1957, in Richmond, VA.
Hooker, Richard D., Jr., of West Point, NY, is a career Army officer now serving as assistant professor of political science with the department of social sciences, U.S. Military Academy, West Point. A 1981 West Point graduate, Captain Hooker received master's and doctoral degrees in political science from the University of Virginia in 1989. Captain Hooker joined the Army in 1975, serving as a rifleman in the 82d Airborne Division before entering the U.S. Military Academy. He has written widely for professional military journals. Captain Hooker was born January 6, 1957, in Fort Benning, GA.
Jindra, Lawrence F., of Floral Park, NY, an ophthalmic surgeon, is a clinical assistant professor at the State University of New York and the director of the glaucoma consultation unit of the Northport Veterans Affairs Medical Center. A Phi Beta Kappa scholar, he was awarded a bachelor of arts, summa cum laude, in physics from Hofstra University in 1979 and received his ophthalmology residency at the Harkness Institute of Columbia University. As a Heed Foundation fellow he studied vision research at the Rockefeller University and served a glaucoma fellowship at Wills Eye Hospital. He earned a master of public administration degree with concentration in medicine, science, and technology from Harvard University's Kennedy School of Government in 1991 and was selected as a diplomacy fellow. He was awarded doctor of medicine with distinction in research from Down State Medical Center in 1983. He also serves as a battalion surgeon with the U.S. Marine Corps Reserve. Dr. Jindra was born September 10, 1958, in Mineola, NY.
Kelley, Lloyd E., of Houston, TX, is currently an attorney with the firm of Fulbright & Jaworski, where he practices labor and employment law. Mr. Kelley served with the Houston Police Department for 11 years. While serving at the police department, he earned a bachelor's degree, cum laude, in economics from the University of Houston in 1983 and three master's degrees in criminal justice, public administration, and history from the University of Houston in 1987, Sam Houston State University in 1988, and Rice University in 1991, respectively. Mr. Kelley also received his law degree, cum laude, from the University of Houston in 1990. Mr. Kelley was born January 2, 1959, in Houston, TX.
Murphy, Dennis J., of San Francisco, CA, is a lieutenant commander in the U.S. Navy. He is currently working in the Navy's Office of Legislative Affairs in Washington, DC, where he provides advice and congressional liaison for the Secretary of the Navy and Chief of Naval Operations for Navy Research, Development, Test and Evaluation. He received a bachelor's degree in economics from the U.S. Naval Academy in 1981. He served as the senior naval aide to the Chief of Naval Operations and the engineering officer of the U.S.S. Nevada (SSBN 733). He earned a master of science degree in engineering management from Catholic University in 1988. Lieutenant Commander Murphy was born January 8, 1959, in Fresno, CA.
Nelson, Thomas C., of Charlotte, NC, is a general partner and founder of Wakefield Group, a North Carolina-based venture capital firm. He also supports entrepreneurship through service as chairman of the Metrolina Entrepreneurial Council and as president of the North Carolina Venture Capital Association. Mr. Nelson graduated from Stanford University in 1984 with a bachelor of science degree in industrial engineering and later earned a master's degree in business administration from the Harvard Graduate School of Business in 1988. Mr. Nelson was born June 25, 1962, in Chicago, IL.
Sampson, Rana S., of Brooklyn, NY, serves as a senior research associate with the Police Executive Research Forum in Washington, DC, a nonprofit research organization dedicated to improving the field of policing. Ms. Sampson earned her bachelor's degree, cum laude, from Columbia University in 1979 and her law degree, cum laude, from Harvard Law School in 1989. Ms. Sampson was born on January 10, 1958, in New York, NY.
Warr, Dartanian, of Cleveland, OH, a major in the U.S. Air Force, is currently a student at the Defense Systems Management College at Fort Belvoir, VA. Major Warr received his bachelor's degree from the U.S. Air Force Academy, Colorado Springs, CO, in 1980. He was awarded a master's degree from Wright State University in Dayton, OH, in 1986 and a master's in business administration from Golden Gate University, San Francisco, CA, in 1988. Major Warr was born on June 25, 1958, in Cleveland, OH.
Webster, William M., IV, of Greenville, SC, is president of Carabo, Inc., the largest franchisee of Bojangles Famous Chicken 'n Biscuits restaurant chain. Webster received his bachelor's degree in English and German, summa cum laude, from Washington and Lee University in Lexington, VA, in 1979. He was awarded a Fulbright scholarship to attend the University of Regensburg in West Germany. He later earned a law degree from the University of Virginia School of Law in 1983. He was born November 7, 1957, in Greenville, SC.
Wing, Michael J., of Tucson, AZ, is the president and chief executive officer of InfoPlan International, Inc., a market research firm that conducts operations nationwide and internationally. He earned a bachelor's degree in international affairs from the University of Colorado in 1981, an M.B.A. from Denver University in 1986, and a master's in public policy from Georgetown University in 1988. Wing has written several published articles including a forthcoming book. Mr. Wing was born July 1, 1959, in Tucson, AZ.
  