
    "Poland has chosen its place among the free and independent nations of the world and as a loyal ally and strategic partner of the United States. -President Donald J. Trump
ESSENTIAL ALLIANCE AND FRIENDSHIP: Poland is an essential ally, an exemplary member of NATO, and has long been a friend of the United States.

This year, the United States and Poland are celebrating 100 years of diplomatic relations.
Poland is a vital NATO Ally and defense partner of the United States.
The United States and Poland have a growing energy and economic relationship that benefits both of our nations.
The United States and Poland have shared the battlefield in conflicts throughout history.

 Poland is a stalwart ally of the United States and stood shoulder-to-shoulder with us in Afghanistan and Iraq.



ROBUST SECURITY RELATIONSHIP: The United States and Poland are partners in the fight for freedom around the world.

The United States and Poland have agreed on a framework to deploy an additional 1,000 troops to Poland.

Poland has also committed to developing and financially supporting the necessary infrastructure to facilitate the increased United States presence.


Poland is a model ally in NATO, setting an example for other partners by committing more than 2 percent of its gross domestic product to defense spending.
Poland supports American troops and NATO partners overseas and facilitates critical military training for both the United States and our allies.


The United States and Poland have made great progress on Poland's entry into the Visa Waiver Program.

Today, the United States and Poland signed a Preventing and Combatting Serious Crimes Agreement—a necessary precursor for Poland to join the Visa Waiver Program.



ENERGY AND ECONOMIC COOPERATION: The United States and Poland are committed to achieving energy diversity in Europe and enhancing economic development.

Poland signed multiple contracts with American firms to buy liquefied natural gas during the past year, totaling more than $25 billion.

The two countries signed another contract today worth billions more.


Today, our two countries signed a Nuclear Cooperation Memorandum of Understanding, which outlines enhanced cooperation to develop Poland's civil nuclear program.
Poland is a vocal opponent of Russian-backed energy projects, like the Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline, that would create a greater dependence on Russian energy supplies.

Poland has committed to ending its need for gas contracts with Russia by 2022.


Poland is a growing trade partner for the United States, accounting for $13.4 billion in two-way trade in goods last year—a record high.

In 2018, the United States increased exports to Poland by more than $800 million.


American companies have invested nearly $42 billion in Poland since their transition to a market economy after 1989.
Polish companies have announced 23 new projects in the United States, representing total capital investment of nearly $600 million across several States.

  