
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate three individuals to serve in his Administration.
The President intends to nominate Santanu "Sandy" K. Baruah, of Oregon, to be Administrator of the Small Business Administration. Mr. Baruah currently serves as Assistant Secretary for Economic Development at the Department of Commerce. Prior to this, he served as Chief of Staff of the Economic Development Administration at the Department of Commerce. Earlier in his career, he served as Deputy Assistant Secretary for Economic Development at the Department of Commerce. Mr. Baruah received his bachelor's degree from the University of Oregon and his master's degree from Williamette University.
The President intends to nominate Jason J. Fichtner, of Virginia, to be Deputy Commissioner of Social Security for the remainder of a six-year term expiring 01/19/13. Dr. Fichtner currently serves as Acting Deputy Commissioner of Social Security and as Associate Commissioner for Retirement Policy at the Social Security Administration. Prior to this, he served as Senior Economist on the Joint Economic Committee of the United States Congress. Earlier in his career, he served as Senior Consultant in the Office of Federal Tax Services of Arthur Andersen. Dr. Fichtner received his bachelor's degree from the University of Michigan, his master's degree from Georgetown University, and his PhD from Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University.
The President intends to nominate James A. Williams, of Virginia, to be Administrator of the General Services Administration. Mr. Williams currently serves as Commissioner of the Federal Acquisition Service at the General Services Administration. Prior to this, he served as Director of the U.S. Visitor and Immigrant Status Indicator Technology (US - VISIT) Program at the Department of Homeland Security. Earlier in his career, he served as Deputy Associate Commissioner for Program Management in the Business Systems Modernization Office at the Internal Revenue Service. Mr. Williams received his bachelor's degree from Virginia Commonwealth University and his MBA from The George Washington University.
  