
    Your Majesties, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen:
I'm sure that you have read the story of His Majesty's remarkable address at Williams College. A speech had been prepared for his approval and for his use upon that occasion. But evidently he found it not to his liking. So he spoke extemporaneously--and the judges, I am told, would have given him the annual speaking prize if visitors had been eligible.
When His Majesty finished, someone asked if he had been able to see his wife's face and to read her reaction to his address. His Majesty is said to have replied: "Confidentially, I wasn't looking at my wife. I was watching my Minister of Foreign Affairs."
Secretary Katzenbach, I am carefully observing your reactions.
We feel a very special bond of kinship with Your Majesty, because you were born among us.
I have heard that during your early years, you used to go from Cambridge to an island off the Massachusetts coast known as Martha's Vineyard.
Some members of my Cabinet--some members of my staff--have been known to disappear into the fogs of the Vineyard for long stretches of time. Some of them even claim that the fog obscures not only land and sea, but the sound of the White House telephone.
We are delighted that you were able to find your way back from that isolated and mysterious place.
We are delighted, as well, that we have this opportunity to repay, in some small measure, the warm hospitality bestowed on us in Bangkok last October.
The world is a good deal smaller than it was when our United States President Jackson sent our first diplomatic mission across the seas to Siam--as it was then called--in 1833.
But the nearness of two countries is not measured by the flight time of jet planes. It is measured more by understanding and by shared purposes. And though we have different customs, different histories, and different religions, what we share, Your Majesty, far surpasses our differences.
Part of our common heritage is a passionate belief in man's right to decide his own destiny--a love of freedom and independence-and a determination to secure their blessings.
When I learned on my first trip to your country that "Thailand"--in your language-means "Land of the Free," I thought of those words in our national anthem: "The Land of the Free, and the Home of the Brave."
The people of the United States--and the people of Thailand--have always understood that those who would remain free must first be brave.
In the past, Your Majesty, brave Thai and brave Americans have stood shoulder to shoulder in the cause of freedom.
Today, we face together another test of man's will and determination to be free. We shall meet that test, with courage and determination, until the tide of aggression recedes--and our people can live in peace once more.
Your Majesty's people have been brave in time of war. You have helped men forge a shield against the disciples of violence.
You have also been equal to the demanding tasks of peace.
You have asserted your leadership in the works of peaceful construction that always must be carried on behind that shield.
I am confident, Your Majesty, that from our mutual commitment will someday flow peace--and order--and development in prosperity for the people of a free Asia.
Tonight we are called upon to make additional sacrifices. In the days ahead, we are going to have requests made of us that are going to be difficult to honor. But we approach these requests with confidence, knowing that our allies will face them with courage and with fairness.
And those who love peace will be eternally in your debt, Your Majesty, for the contribution that you and your country have made.
Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to rise and toast Their Majesties, the King and Queen of Thailand.
  