
    Mr. President, Mrs. Tolbert, and all of our distinguished guests:
Secretary Rogers and I were just remarking about the fact that 2 weeks from tonight in this room, and at this place, we will be welcoming Mr. Brezhnev, the leader of a great and powerful nation. And tonight, just 2 weeks before that visit, we welcome another very distinguished guest, President Tolbert.
When we met today, he said that he represented a very small country, but I think what this visit signifies to all of us is that at a time when the United States, we think quite properly, in the interest of peace for our children and all the generations to come, is developing a new relationship with the People's Republic of China and a new relationship with the Soviet Union, that we not forget our old friends.
Our first visitor in this room in the year 1973 was Prime Minister Heath, and as all of us know, it has been said for many, many years that we have a special relationship with Britain. I should point out tonight that we have, and that I particularly have, a very special relationship with Liberia and with our distinguished guest.
This is true not only because for 150 years we have enjoyed the closest relations but is true also for very personal reasons. President Tolbert and I served together as Vice Presidents, and when people serve as Vice Presidents, they learn a great deal.
Little did we dream that one day we would serve together as Presidents. Of course, all Vice Presidents dream of being President, but few make it. And I suppose this is one of those rare cases in history when two men who have served as Vice President meet together as President. And so that makes our relationship very special.
It is very special for another reason. We share the same view of the world, not only of the necessity to develop a new and peaceful relation between the great powers, the United States and the Soviet Union, the United States and Europe, the United States and Peking and Japan, but also the necessity to think of the world as it will be 25 years from now, 50 years from now. We think of the new nations of Africa, and we think of the older nations. And we think of our friend, President Tolbert, and the leadership that he is giving to all of those new nations trying to develop a way to bring progress to their people, bring it with freedom and at the same time maintaining their independence.
I could simply say in presenting him to you tonight that it would be enough to mention him alone, but I must not forget his wife.
When I was in Liberia--and my wife, who has been there since, last year on a good will trip--but when we were there together in 1957, I remember going, Mr. President, out into the countryside. You were Vice President at that time, and we met a paramount chief, and he was a very old man, and he was very kind to me and proceeded to designate me as a paramount chief. And he told me that one of the rights of a paramount chief was to have as many wives as he liked. I have only one wife, President Tolbert has only one, and she is a lovely lady, and we are glad to have her here.
So as we drink our toast tonight, let us think of the relations between Liberia and America that go back so many years. Let us think of the broader concept of the relations between the United States and all the new states of Africa that have had their independence over the past 10 to 15 years. And let us think finally of our very good friend, President Tolbert, one who has been a friend of this country from the time he has been in public life, and one who is now a leader of Africa and, being a leader of Africa, one who speaks for the best that is in Africa and also the best for us, too.
To President Tolbert. Mr. President.
  