
    To the Congress of the United States:
Pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act, 50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq. (IEEPA), I hereby report that I have issued an Executive Order that takes additional steps with respect to the national emergency declared in Executive Order 12938 of November 14, 1994, regarding the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction (WMD) and the means of delivering them, and the measures imposed by that order, as expanded by Executive Order 13094 of July 28, 1998.
This order is designed to combat WMD trafficking by blocking the property of persons that engage in proliferation activities and their support networks. It is intended to advance international cooperative efforts against WMD financing, including with our G-8 partners and through the Proliferation Security Initiative. This order also provides a model for other nations to follow in adopting laws to stem the flow of financial and other support for proliferation activities, as decided in United Nations Security Council Resolution 1540. It further implements a key recommendation of the Silberman-Robb WMD Commission.
Executive Order 12938, as amended, authorizes the Secretary of State to impose certain measures against foreign persons (individuals or entities) determined to have materially contributed to the proliferation efforts of any foreign country, project, or entity of proliferation concern. The measures that the Secretary of State may choose to impose under Executive Order 12938, as amended, are a ban on U.S. Government procurement from the designated foreign person; a ban on U.S. Government assistance to the designated foreign person; and a ban on imports from the designated foreign person.
Recognizing the need for additional tools to defeat the proliferation of WMD, I have signed the new order, which authorizes the imposition of a new measure—blocking— against WMD proliferators and their support networks. This action, sometimes referred to as freezing, will apply to property and interests in property of persons designated under the order and will deny such persons access to the U.S. financial and commercial systems. Modeled after Executive Order 13224 of September 23, 2001, the new order provides broad new authorities to target not only persons engaged in proliferation activities, but also those providing support or services to such proliferators.
In particular, the order blocks the property and interests in property in the United States, or in the possession or control of United States persons, of (1) the persons listed in the Annex to the order; (2) any foreign person determined by the Secretary of State, in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury, the Attorney General, and other relevant agencies, to have engaged, or attempted to engage, in activities or transactions that have materially contributed to, or pose a risk of materially contributing to, the proliferation of WMD or their means of delivery (including missiles capable of delivering such weapons) by any person or foreign country of proliferation concern; (3) any person determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, the Attorney General, and other relevant agencies, to have provided, or attempted to provide, financial, material, technological, or other support for, or goods or services in support of, proliferation-related activities or any person blocked pursuant to the order; and (4) any person determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, the Attorney General, and other relevant agencies, to be owned or controlled by, or acting or purporting to act for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, any blocked person.
In addition, the order amends section 4(a) of Executive Order 12938, as amended, by conforming the criteria for determining that a foreign person has engaged in activity described in that order to the criteria for designations by the Secretary of State set forth in section 1(a)(ii) of the new order. Executive Order 12938, as amended, will continue to be an important tool to combat WMD proliferation.
Actions taken under the order become effective on June 29, 2005. The new order recognizes the need for more robust tools to defeat the proliferation of WMD around the world. The steps that we are undertaking in this new order form yet another part of our evolving response to this challenge.
GEORGE W. BUSH
The White House,
June 28, 2005.
  