
    Your Majesties, Your Excellencies, distinguished guests and friends of the United States and Spain:
We are deeply honored this evening by the presence of Your Majesties, the King and Queen of Spain, and I say that on behalf of all of the American people. As representatives of the people of Spain, you are always welcome in our country, and you are especially welcome in this our Bicentennial Year.
The contributions, we all know in America, of the people of Spain to the New World are to be found throughout our entire country. The Spanish explorers ventured into the uncharted wildernesses of our continent long before the independence of the United States. Many, many American towns and cities, Your Majesty, bear Spanish names. Much of our architecture reflects the distinctive quality of Spanish artistry. Many thousands of American families proudly bear names reflecting their Spanish ancestry.
Your Majesty, we recognize the hand, the heart, and the spirit of Spain in the United States. Our Bicentennial prompts us to pay full tribute to the important role that Spain has played in our development in this country. But our celebrations focus our attention really toward the future as well as to the present.
As we enter our third century in the United States with the highest expectations for America's future, we have the same very high expectations as far as Spain is concerned, particularly under your leadership. This is of great importance bilaterally. It is even of greater importance to have the shared objectives of the nations to the west. All Americans wish you the very, very best in the course on which you are embarked.
In 1953 the United States and Spain embarked on a relationship designed to further the cooperation and the security of our two peoples. Over the past quarter of a century, our nations have benefited very measurably by this relationship.
Our joint determination to build on and to strengthen this cooperation today is clearly stated in our new Treaty of Friendship and Cooperation. On the occasion of your most welcome visit, our nations enjoy a growing and a better relationship. Our relationship has broad support among the American people and, as you found today when you appeared before the Congress, among the Members of the House as well as the Senate. Through closer ties and greater cooperation there is much that our two nations can do to safeguard the peace and to surmount the new challenges of an increasingly interdependent world-such common problems as economic progress, energy, and the environment.
We must provide for our people the benefit of peace, prosperity, and freedom. I know of your own personal, confident vision of Spain's future role in our transatlantic community.
In 1492, Your Majesty, Columbus claimed America for a Spanish King and Queen. Today, nearly 500 years later, a King and Queen of Spain have come themselves to America not to claim it--[laughter]--but to join with us in affirming the common ideals which make all of us citizens of the Western World.
The American people are very proud to have you visit with us on this occasion. Your Majesties, I lift my glass to you, to the Spanish people, and to the friendship of the United States and Spain.
  