
    Today, just four months after calling out junk fees in his State of the Union, President Biden convened private sector companies to announce actions to end surprise junk fees by fully disclosing fees to consumers upfront. In total, the companies that made new commitments today will improve the purchasing experience for tens of millions of customers annually.
Among other announcements, Live Nation committed to roll out by September an upfront all-in pricing experience showing just one clear, total price for more than 30 million customers. SeatGeek will roll-out product features over the course of the summer to make it easier for its millions of customers to shop on the basis of all-in price. And xBk, a Des Moines, Iowa-based venue and board member for the National Independent Venue Association, will introduce all-in pricing for over 15,000 tickets sold to over 100 events hosted at the venue.
The President was also joined by Airbnb, the Pablo Center at the Confluence, TickPick, DICE, and the Newport Festivals Foundation — companies large and small that currently provide all-in pricing.
These commitments follow those that have been taken by other private companies and the Administration since the President first called for a crackdown on hidden fees in September and will help save families money and increase competition in the economy.
Read coverage below:?
Rolling Stone: Ticketmaster, Others Agree to All-In Pricing as White House Cracks Down on Hidden Junk Fees  President Joe Biden meets with ticketing companies and venue owners Thursday to make "honest, transparent pricing" the industry standard  [Daniel Kreps, Ethan Millman , 6/15/23]
Ticketmaster (owned by Live Nation), SeatGeek, and other ticketing companies have agreed to institute all-in pricing in response to the White House's crackdown on hidden junk fees. On Thursday, President Joe Biden met with representatives from the ticketing industry and venue owners — including the CEOs of SeatGeek, TickPick, and others as well as the president of Live Nation Venues — in an effort to bring "honest, transparent pricing" to the ticket-buying experience. […] Biden has previously called upon Congress to pass legislation — which he dubbed the Junk Fee Protection Act — banning hidden junk fees.
The Hollywood Reporter:Ticketmaster, SeatGeek Commit to All-In Pricing After "Junk Fees" Criticism  The two ticketing companies were among the attendees expected at the White House Thursday.  [Caitlin Hudson, 6/15/23]
Live Nation and its ticket selling arm Ticketmaster made commitments Thursday to show customers the full price of tickets, including fees, up front. This announcement came as President Biden invited private sector companies to the White House Thursday, following his calls for federal agencies, Congress and private companies to cut down on junk fees. SeatGeek, which serves the primary and secondary ticketing market, another meeting attendee, also promised to roll-out features this summer that make it easier for customers to see the full price.
People: Ticketmaster and Live Nation Vow to Show Ticket Fees Up Front in Meeting with President Biden  Starting in September, Live Nation will offer "one clear, total price" for all shows at venues and festivals owned by the corporation  [Jack Irvin, 6/15/23]
Starting later this year, there will be more clarity in the process of buying concert tickets through Ticketmaster and Live Nation. After President Joe Biden called out "junk fees" and hidden fees on concert tickets throughout the past year, several ticketing companies including Live Nation Entertainment, which owns Ticketmaster, vowed on Thursday to start displaying all fees to customers upfront.
Associated Press: Biden targets junk fees with executives from Live Nation, SeatGeek and Airbnb?  [6/15/23]?
President Joe Biden is hosting executives from Live Nation, Airbnb and other companies at the White House on Thursday to highlight his administration's push to end so-called junk fees that surprise consumers. Biden prioritized the effort to combat surprise or undisclosed fees in his State of the Union address and has called for legislation, regulation and private sector action to end them. Biden, at Thursday's event, was set to announce actions by companies that have eliminated or plan to eliminate those surprise fees.?
Reuters: Ticketmaster, Live Nation agree to all-in prices as part of Biden war on junk fees  [Jarrett Renshaw, 6/15/23]?
Live Nation and Ticketmaster will soon offer consumers all-in pricing on their popular ticket platforms, the White House announced as it convenes a meeting on Thursday to highlight efforts crack down on so-called junk fees. President Joe Biden is hosting a meeting at the White House of private companies - including Ticketmaster, SeatGeek and Airbnb - who have committed to fully disclose fees to consumers upfront. It is part of Biden's broader effort to crack down on junk fees imposed by ticket companies, banks, airlines and other industries.
New York Times: The White House Renews Its Attack on 'Surprise Fees'  President Biden will host executives from several companies, including Airbnb and Live Nation, to announce new efforts to end so-called junk fees as inflation remains high.  [Andrew Ross Sorkin, Ravi Mattu, Bernhard Warner, Sarah Kessler, Michael J. de la Merced, Lauren Hirsch and Ephrat Livni, 6/15/23]
At the White House on Thursday, he will host a panel of executives from several companies, including Airbnb and Live Nation, which drew outrage from consumers over its botched ticket sales for Taylor Swift's tour last year. The companies are expected to announce new efforts to "end surprise fees," the White House said, including through price-transparency commitments and other ways of fully disclosing upfront costs to consumers. The administration hopes that the changes will be adopted by companies across a wide array of industries, including live events and travel.
USA Today: Biden muscles Live Nation, SeatGeek to scrap hidden ticket fees after Taylor Swift debacle  [Joey Garrison, 6/15/23]
Concert giant Live Nation and mobile-ticket vendor SeatGeek will no longer hide fees from the total ticket cost amid pressure from President Joe Biden for companies to ditch so-called "junk fees."
NBC News:Biden to announce pledge by ticket sales giants to eliminate hidden fees and show full costs upfront  The announcement comes as part of the administration's commitment to end so-called junk fees in an effort to lower costs for Americans.  [Summer Concepcion, 6/15/23]
President Joe Biden on Thursday will announce that ticket sales giants Ticketmaster and Live Nation have pledged to provide consumers with full pricing upfront, ending surprise fees at checkout during online purchases.
CNBC: Ticketmaster parent Live Nation, others agree to show 'junk fees' after Biden pressure  [Emma Kinery, 6/15/23]
Several large companies, including Ticketmaster parent Live Nation, are vowing to end surprise "junk fees" following a pressure campaign from the Biden administration.
CNN: Biden to announce Live Nation and Ticketmaster will allow consumers to see all fees up front  [Nathan Borney, 6/15/23]
President Joe Biden will announce Thursday that entertainment giant Live Nation (LYV) and ticketing behemoth Ticketmaster have pledged to give US consumers the ability to see the full price of tickets up front, minimizing the frequently frustrating experience of watching additional fees add up late in the checkout process when buying online.
Axios: Ticketmaster and Seat Geek to dump "junk fees" after White House pressure  [Sam Fossum, 6/15/23]
Ticket giants Live Nation and SeatGeek have committed to reveal the entire cost of certain tickets up front when consumers are shopping for options, eliminating what critics have called "junk fees," the White House announced Thursday.
MarketWatch: Ticketmaster, Live Nation plan to show 'upfront all-in pricing,' responding to Biden's push against 'junk fees  [Victor Reklaitis, 6/15/23]
Ticketmaster parent Live Nation Entertainment Inc. on Thursday is introducing a plan to show total prices from the get-go to customers, with the company making its pledge as part of a Biden White House event focused on eliminating "junk fees."
NPR: Live Nation and Ticketmaster are pledging to President Biden to show fees up front  [Ayana Archie, 6/15/23]
Several ticket sales and venue companies, including Live Nation Entertainment, will be pledging to eliminate "junk fees" at a meeting with President Biden on Thursday. Biden pledged in his State of the Union speech in February to try to do more to eliminate hiding fees and surcharges. After the address, Live Nation Entertainment, formed from a merger between Live Nation and Ticketmaster, expressed interest in offering all-in, upfront pricing on its site and is now committing to do so starting in September, the White House said.
Forbes: Ticketmaster Will Promise No More 'Junk Fees' At Biden Event  [Mary Whitfill Roeloffs, 6/15/23]
Executives with Live Nation Entertainment (parent company of Ticketmaster) are expected to promise they'll stop hiding "junk fees" from customers Thursday as both Democrats and Republicans continue to criticize Ticketmaster and its parent company for how it handled ticket sales to Taylor Swift's "Eras" tour. California-based Live Nation's Ticketmaster is expected will announce at the White House Thursday it will default to display all-in prices – including mandatory fees that often surprise customers at checkout – for venues it owns, and also give Ticketmaster customers the option to view all-in pricing at other venues.
AV Club:Ticketmaster will finally just tell you how much tickets cost, nixing "junk fees"  Ahead of a meeting with President Joe Biden, Live Nation and SeatGeek have committed to "all-in" ticket pricing  [Marry Kate Carr, 6/15/23]
The war may not quite be over, but fans have won one battle against Ticketmaster. Facing pressure from President Joe Biden, the federal government, and—worst of all—Swifties, both Ticketmaster and SeatGeek have committed to "all-in" pricing, meaning customers will see the full price up front rather than getting hit with a slew of hidden "junk fees" upon check out.
NewsNation: Biden pushes junk fees act targeting ticket, airline fees  [Allison Harris, 6/15/23]
President Joe Biden will meet Thursday with executives of Seat Geek, Airbnb, Live Nation and other companies to highlight his push to end so-called "junk fees" that surprise consumers. […]Biden is calling on Congress to pass the Junk Fee Prevention Act, which cracks down on excessive online ticket fees, bans airline fees for family members to sit with young children, eliminates early termination fees for TV, phone and internet services and bans surprise or undisclosed resort fees.
UPI: Biden to announce commitments from Live Nation, others to end junk fees  [Doug Cunningham, 6/15/23]
President Joe Biden will meet Thursday with private sector companies that have committed to end surprise junk fees by fully disclosing all customer fees upfront.
  