
    President George W. Bush today announced his appointment of the following 20 individuals to serve as Members of the President's Council on Physical Fitness and Sports for two-year terms:
Lynn Swann will serve as Chairman. For nine years, he played professional football with the Pittsburgh Stealers, winning four Super Bowl titles. Since his retirement, Mr. Swann has been a sports broadcaster with ABC Sports.
Dot Richardson will serve as Vice Chairman. She is an orthopedic surgeon at the National Training Center Sports Medicine Institute in Clermont, Florida. Richardson was a member of the first U.S. Olympic Softball team, and she is a two-time gold medallist.
Denise Austin is a well-known fitness expert. She is host of the number one fitness show, Denise Austin's Daily Workout on Lifetime Television, and PBS's weekly show, Healthweek.
Dr. James Baird is currently the Director of Health for the Ohio Department of Health. Baird has 27 years of experience as a private practice physician.
John Burke is the President of Trek Bicycle Corporation, headquartered in Waterloo, Wisconsin. Burke created the 'Trek 100,' a bike ride to raise money to fight childhood cancer. The 'Trek 100' is the largest single-day fundraiser for childhood cancer research in the United States and has raised over $3.4 million in the past twelve years.
Paul Corrozza is the Owner, CEO and President of RunTex, Inc., in Austin, Texas. RunTex is now the world's largest store devoted exclusively to running. RunTex, Inc. also operates RunTex University, which provides a variety coaching programs, and RunTex Events, which produces roughly 100 organized runs.
Katherine Cosgrove is an exercise physiologist in Overland Park, Kansas. She is the founder of F.I.T. Bodies, a company that addresses all areas of a client's life that present risk through individualized fitness counseling.
Amanda C. Cromwell is currently the Head Coach of the Women's Soccer team at the University of Florida. She also plays professional soccer for the Atlanta Beat. Ms. Cromwell was a member of the World Cup Soccer team in 1995 and an Olympic Team alternate in 1996.
Pamela Danberg is the President of the Dwarf Athletic Association, and has been involved with the United States Olympic Committee since 1989. She was selected to serve as the Chief of Mission for the 2000 Paralympic Games in Sydney, Australia. Danberg won a silver medal at the 1988 Paralympic Games, and was awarded the USOC Disabled Female Athlete of the Year Award in 1989. Dr. Jamie Davidson is Physician with the Endocrine and Diabetes Associates in Dallas, Texas. Dr. Davidson has been recognized for his work to fight diabetes in the United States and throughout Latin America.
Dan Gable is currently the Assistant to the Director of Athletics at the University of Iowa. Mr. Gable was the head wrestling coach at the University of Iowa for twenty-one years, during which time his teams won 21 Big Ten championships and nine consecutive NCAA championships. Mr. Gable won a gold medal at the 1972 Olympic Games.
Nomar Garciaparra plays shortstop for the Boston Red Sox. He was a member of the 1992 Olympic Team. Mr. Garciaparra was named the American League Rookie of the Year in 1997, was named to the American League All-Star Teams in 1999 and 2000, and was the American League batting champion in 1999 and 2000.
Marion Jones made history by becoming the first female track and field athlete to win five medals at a single Olympic Games when she won the gold in the 100m, 200m and 4x400m relay and the bronze in the long jump and 4x100 relay. Ms. Jones also played basketball at the University of North Carolina and helped the team to the NCAA title in her first year.
Ivette Lirio is a Physical Education teacher and Assistant Athletic Director at Barbara Goleman Senior High School in Miami, Florida. Ms. Lirio is also an Adjunct Professor at Florida International University.
Nancy Lopez has played professional golf since 1978. She has won three LPGA Championships and was inducted into the LPGA's Hall of Fame in 1987.
Dr. T.L. Mitchell is the Vice President and Associate Medical Director of the Cooper Clinic, Inc., as well as the Medical Director of the Cooper Wellness Program in Dallas, Texas.
Charles Moore, Jr., is presently the Executive Director of the Committee to Encourage Corporate Philanthropy. He served for five years as Director of Athletics at Cornell University. Mr. Moore received a gold medal in the 400m hurdles in 1952, and was inducted into the USA Track and Field Hall of Fame in 1999.
Derek Parra is a world class inline skater and speedskater who won two medals at the 2002 Olympic Games in Salt Lake City -- the gold medal in the 1500m and the silver medal in the 5000m. Mr. Parra was the 2001 U.S. national champion and the 2001 North American champion.
Emmit Smith has been a star running back for the Dallas Cowboys for 11 seasons. He is the third-ranked rusher in NFL history, and has won four NFL rushing titles; three Super Bowl titles and a league and Super Bowl MVP award.
Lloyd Ward is the CEO and Secretary General of the United States Olympic Committee in Colorado Springs, Colorado. Before joining the USOC, Mr. Ward was Chairman and CEO of iMotor.com, and Mr. Ward was previously the Chairman and CEO of Maytag Appliances.
  