
    STATEMENT OF ADMINISTRATION POLICY
(House Floor)(Sponsors: Whitten (D), Mississippi; Obey (D), Wisconsin)
At this stage of the process, the Administration supports passage of H.R. 5114, the Foreign Operations, Export Financing, and Related Programs Appropriations Bill, FY 1991, as reported out of the full Appropriations Committee. Changes made in the bill by the Committee have rendered it more satisfactory to the Administration in a number of critical areas.
The Administration will, however, oppose the bill if amendments are adopted that change the current United States policy regarding overseas family planning activities. In a letter of June 26, 1990 (attached), the President stated that he will veto the bill if either the Lehman or Mrazek amendments are adopted.
With regard to El Salvador, the House Leadership and the Administration are discussing this matter in an effort to reach a bipartisan U. S. policy that will support a cease-fire and a negotiated solution by the parties in the civil war. The Administration is encouraged by this effort to fashion a unified policy approach and therefore believes a negative vote on the bill over this issue at the present time would be counter-productive to these discussions. However, should the final bill contain the provision on El Salvador, Section 531 as reported from the Committee, when it is presented to the President, his senior advisors would have to recommend veto.
Finally, there are a number of other provisions in the bill as reported by the Committee that are objectionable because they impair the President's ability to conduct foreign policy. These include the Notification to Congress on Debt Relief Agreements and the restrictions on assistance to the Cambodian Non-Communist Resistance. On these issues, the Administration would support modifications of the bill to make it more in accord with current U. S. policy.
Further details on the Administration's views on these and other provisions are outlined in the attachment.
Attachments
  