
    
"I think both of us would support Senator McCain. ... And Cynthia and I and two other members of our group are going to definitely support Senator McCain in the upcoming election because we feel he's the best candidate. And we need a strong leader to govern in the coming years." -- Marilu Sochor
Fox News' "Fox & Friends"
June 9, 2008
FOX NEWS' BRIAN KILMEADE: "Hillary Clinton is urging her supporters to unify and get behind Barack Obama this November. So why are some of them telling her no way and pledging to vote for John McCain? Let's ask Cynthia Ruccia and Marilu Sochor, co-founders of Women for Fair Politics. First off you Cynthia, you heard Hillary Clinton ask you to support her rival, Senator Barack Obama. Why won't you?" 
CYNTHIA RUCCIA: "We love Hillary Clinton. We are so proud of the job that she has done. We feel very upset with our party. We feel that they have absolutely betrayed us. The amount of sexism that came out during the course of this campaign was completely unacceptable, and we feel that we want to make a statement we're going to support John McCain. Our organization, we have had in one week just under 600,000 people visit our web site -- 80% of them feel the way that we do." 
KILMEADE: "Marilu, I understand that Howard Dean has contacted your organization and said basically what do you want? What did you tell him?" 
MARILU SOCHOR: "Well he's contacted Cynthia and myself twice over the last week and basically, he wanted to know what we felt and how we could get on board the Obama train. And we told him that we didn't feel that it was an option. That we felt that the DNC did not stand or defend Senator Clinton during the whole primary campaign and that we did not feel that we could, for more than one reason, throw our support toward Senator Obama, no matter what Senator Clinton suggested that we do." 
KILMEADE: "Cynthia, where did you hear the sexism? Tell us what really ticked you off." 
RUCCIA: "It was a lot of big things, you heard them all before. It was a lot of little things. It was a day to day to day thing. Even last week when it was very apparent that Barack Obama was going to be the presumed nominee and Hillary had lost and they consider her the person who lost, Governor Richardson went on the air and started bashing her. It was just completely unacceptable. I couldn't imagine --" 
KILMEADE: "You don't think he would have bashed her if she was a man?" 
RUCCIA: "No. Because I think in the traditions of our Democratic party when someone has been declared the winner and someone has been declared the loser that the winner doesn't bash the loser. It's just unacceptable."
KILMEADE: "What have you done in terms of contacting the McCain camp? Would you vote for John McCain or sit it out?" 
SOCHOR: "No. I think both of us would support Senator McCain. But, our group, which started with five members all have different opinions on this matter. That's why Women for Fair Politics, that's what it's all about. We have some people who are going to write in Hillary's name. We have some people who are going to sit it out. And Cynthia and I and two other members of our group are going to definitely support Senator McCain in the upcoming election because we feel he's the best candidate. And we need a strong leader to govern in the coming years." 
KILMEADE: "The fact that he reached out to you right away on Tuesday night I'm sure didn't hurt either." 
SOCHOR: "No." 
KILMEADE: "All right. Cynthia Ruccia and Marilu Sochor thanks for joining us this morning."
Watch The Fox News Segment
  