
    State Senator Jim Forsythe joins as state staff grows
MANCHESTER, NH — Today, New Hampshire State Director for the Ron Paul 2012 Presidential Campaign, Jared Chicoine, announced the appointment of State Senator Jim Forsythe as New Hampshire Campaign Chairman.
"We are very proud to have Jim not only on board, but taking a leadership role in our fight for this primary," said Chicoine. "His dedication to the economic security of New Hampshire citizens and his deep understanding of electoral issues in this state will make him a real asset to the campaign."
Senator Forsythe also released a brief statement:
"I'm honored to support Ron Paul's campaign for the Republican nomination. Many issues will arise during this primary season, but none more immediately important than economic reality. Every candidate will be talking jobs, cuts, and taxes, but only Ron Paul has the track record to back up the rhetoric. For 30 years, Paul has warned us about monetary policy, warned us about spending, warned us about inflation. Now our people need jobs and dollars worth saving, and Paul can put us on the road to recovery."

Jim Forsythe represents District 4 in the New Hampshire State Senate. Prior to taking public office, Jim was a successful entrepreneur in the aerospace industry, a KC-135 pilot and aircraft commander in the U.S. Air Force, and an associate professor at the U.S. Air Force Academy.
The Paul campaign also announced the addition of three NH field staffers:

Brian Early, Media and Field. Brian is a former political news reporter for the Hippo, and Manchester correspondent for New Hampshire Public Radio. He has also contributed to Reuters and National Public Radio. He is a New Hampshire native from Amherst.


Shaun Bowen, Field. A graduate of SUNY Fredonia, Brian recently worked as a field staffer for the National Right to Work Committee. Prior to taking that position, he interned with Young Americans for Liberty, organizing and developing college groups around the country. In 2008, he drove 14 hours to volunteer for the Ron Paul Campaign in the Iowa Caucuses.


Norman Tregenza, Field. Norman is a NH State Representative from Carrol, and sits on the House Judiciary Committee. His background includes four years in the United States Navy, three in the USN Reserves, and a professional background in the utility and fuel industries. In 2008, Norman was on the Ron Paul Campaign staff in both New Hampshire and Maine.

  