
    President Bush to Appoint the Following Individuals to Serve as Members of the President's Homeland Security Advisory Council
President George W. Bush today announced his appointment of the following individuals to serve as Members of the President's Homeland Security Advisory Council.
President Bush created the Homeland Security Advisory Council by Executive Order on March 19, 2002. The purpose of the Council is to provide the President with advice on homeland security matters from experts representing state and local government, the private sector, public policy experts and the non-profit sector.
Joseph J. Grano, Jr., of New Jersey will be designated Chair upon appointment. He is currently the Chairman and CEO of UBS Paine Webber and a veteran of the U.S. Special Forces. He received a Bronze Star for his service in Vietnam, the Ellis Island Medal of Honor and the USO Gold Medal Award for Distinguished Service.
William H. Webster of the District of Columbia will be designated Vice Chair upon appointment. Webster served as the Director of the FBI after serving as a judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit. In 1987, Webster became the Director of the CIA, which he led until 1991. Since then, Webster has practiced law at the Washington, D.C. firm of Milbank, Tweed, Hadley and McCoy.
Richard A. Andrews of California is presently the Vice President for Emergency Planning in the Risk Management Division of ABS Consulting. From 1991 to 1998, he served as the Director of the Governor's Office of Emergency Services for the State of California, and was the President of the National Emergency Management Association from 1995 to 1996.
Kathleen M. Bader of Michigan is a Business Group President with Dow Chemical Company and the Corporate Vice President for Quality and Business Excellence. She joined Dow in 1973 and has held a variety of positions in sales and operations. Bader was named on the 50 Most Powerful Women in International Business by Fortune Magazine in October 2001.
Dr. Jared Cohon of Pennsylvania is the President of Carnegie Mellon University. He is a national authority on environmental and water resource systems analysis. He served as a member of the Nuclear Waste Technical Review Board and was named Chairman in 1997. In 1992, he was named the Dean of the School of Forestry and Environmental Studies at Yale University.
Governor Michael Leavitt is the 14th Governor of the State of Utah. He was first elected in 1992, reelected in 1996 and then became only the second Governor in Utah history to be elected to a third term in 2000. Leavitt is also a past Chairman of the National Governor's Association.
James T. Moore of Florida, is currently the Commissioner of the Florida Department of Law Enforcement. He was first confirmed as Commissioner in 1988, after serving with the Department since 1973. During his tenure, he has served as a Standards and Training Specialist, the Director of the Division of Staff Services and Deputy Commissioner. Moore is also a former member of the Florida National Guard.
James Rodney Schlesinger of Virginia has a long and distinguished record of public service. He has served as Secretary of the Energy, Secretary of Defense, Director of Central Intelligence, and Chairman of the Atomic Energy Commission. Schlesinger is currently the Chairman of the Board of Trustees of the MITRE Corporation, a Senior Advisor for Lehman Brothers, Counselor and Trustee of the Center for Strategic and International Studies and Chairman of the Executive Committee of the Nixon Center.
Mayor Anthony Williams was elected Mayor of the District of the Columbia in 1998. Before his election, he was Chief Financial Officer of the District of Columbia, and was previously the Chief Financial Officer of the U.S. Department of Agriculture. His additional past positions include Deputy State Comptroller of Connecticut, Executive Director of the Community Development Agency in St. Louis, Assistant Director of the Boston Redevelopment Authority and Adjunct Professor at Columbia University.
Dr. Ruth David of Virginia is presently President and Chief Executive Officer of ANSER, Inc., an independent, not-for-profit, public service research institution. From 1995 to 1998, she was Deputy Director for Science and Technology at the CIA and she began her professional career at Sandia National Laboratories. She currently serves on the Defense Science Board, the National Security Agency Scientific Board, the National Research Council Naval Studies Board and the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence Technical Advisory Board.
Ambassador Paul Bremer, III of Maryland is presently the Chairman and CEO of Marsh Crisis Consulting, and was previously Managing Director of the Kissinger Group. He joined the Kissinger Group after 23 years of service in the U.S. Diplomatic Corps under six Secretaries of State. In 1983, Bremer was named Ambassador to the Netherlands, and 1986, President Reagan appointed him Ambassador-At-Large for Counter Terrorism. In 1999, Speaker Hastert appointed him as Chairman of the National Commission on Terrorism.
Dr. Lydia Waters Thomas of Maryland is President and CEO of Mitretek Systems, Inc., and she was previously Vice President and General Manager responsible for the company's Center for Environment, Resources and Space. Dr. Thomas served two terms on the Environmental Advisory Board to the Chief of Engineers, U.S. Corps of Engineers and was Chairperson of the Chemicals Regulation Sub-Group of the United States Energy Association.
Steven Young of Ohio is an Administrative Lieutenant with the Marion City Police Department, where he has served for 25 years. Young is currently the President of the Grand Lodge of the Fraternal Order of Police, and served as Vice President from 1997 to 2001. His past appointments in Ohio include service on the Governor's Committee on Public Building Safety and Security, the Ohio Supreme Court's Committee on Drug Abuse and the Courts, and the Ohio Attorney General's Advisory Council. David Arthur Bell of New York is Vice Chairman of the Interpublic Group of Companies, the world's largest marketing and communications and services company as well as the CEO and Managing Director of The Partnership, a global marketing communications group. He was Chairman and CEO of TrueNorth Communications until its merger with Interpublic, and he was previously the CEO of Bozell Worldwide. Bell is the current Chairman of the Ad Council.
Sidney Taurel of Indiana is the Chairman, President and CEO of Eli Lilly and Company. He joined the Lilly subsidiary Eli Lilly International Corporation in 1971, and has held various positions Brazil, France, Easter Europe and London. In 1986, he became President of Eli Lilly International Corporation and then Executive Vice President of the Pharmaceutical Division in 1991.
Lee Herbert Hamilton of Indiana is the Director of the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars. Prior to being named Director of the Wilson Center, Hamilton served for 34 years as a U.S. Congressman from Indiana's 9th District. While in Congress, he served as a member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs where he served as the ranking Democrat for ten years and was the Committee Chairman during the 103rd Congress. Hamilton also served as Chairman of the Joint Economic Committee, and as a member of the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, the Joint Committee on the Organization of Congress and the Select Committee to Investigate Covert Arms Transactions with Iran.
  