
    To the Congress of the United States:
I am pleased to transmit this report on the activities and accomplishments of the United States in aeronautics and space in 1974. This is in accordance with Section 206 of the National Aeronautics and Space Act of 1958, as amended (42 U.S.C. 2476).
During 1974, the Nation's activities in aeronautics and space continued to produce significant benefits, to experiment with and develop new applications, to increase scientific knowledge, and to advance technology. The report shows:
The use of communications satellites continued to expand as a principal method of international communications. The first domestic privately owned communications satellites opened a new dimension in our tele-communications systems. Satellites continued to play an essential role in national defense activities--in communications, navigation, and other fields. Demonstration programs tested the use of satellite systems to improve delivery of health and education services.
Experimental uses of Earth observation satellites were tested in crop surveys, pollution monitoring, land use planning, water resources management, and other fields. Weather satellites continued to be our chief source of both global and local weather data; a new geostationary satellite began continuous observation of weather affecting the Western hemisphere.
The Skylab manned space station mission was successfully completed; it demonstrated that human beings can survive and work well in space for months or more at a time and provided a store of new scientific and technical data on the Sun, Earth resources, medical effects of space flight, and other fields. Development of the Space Shuttle progressed on schedule, and within costs, toward the goal of a versatile reusable vehicle for routine and economical use of space at the end of the decade. Joint preparations and training with the Soviet Union proceeded for the 1975 Apollo-Soyuz manned docking experiment. Cooperative space activities with other nations continued on the basis of mutual benefits. Development by European nations at their expense of the Spacelab for use with the Space Shuttle got well underway.
Exploration of the planets continued with successful missions to Jupiter, Venus, and Mercury. The science of astronomy advanced with important new observations and discoveries using ground-based, high-altitude, and space telescopes.
In aeronautics, good progress was made in developing technology to reduce energy requirements, noise, and pollution of civil aircraft. Modernization of the air traffic control system continued with the introduction of semiautomated equipment for air route traffic control.
Milestones in military aircraft development included the roll-out of the B-1 bomber, delivery of the first operational F-15 fighter aircraft, deployment to the fleet of the A-6E all-weather attack aircraft, and the successful testing of the new CH-53E helicopter.
Transfer of aeronautical and space technology to other fields continued with many beneficial applications in energy, materials, transportation, medical care, and other areas.
I believe that all Americans, and people of all nations, can be gratified with the accomplishments and the continued progress toward achieving the objectives of the National Aeronautics and Space Act of 1958 that are comprehensively described in this report.
GERALD R. FORD
The White House,
June 9, 1975.
  