
    By mutual agreement, President of the United States of America Jimmy Carter and General Secretary of the CPSU Central Committee and President of the Presidium of the USSR Supreme Soviet Leonid I. Brezhnev held meetings in Vienna, Austria, from June 15 to June 18, 1979. President Carter and President Brezhnev conducted their discussions with the participation of:
On the American side, Cyrus Vance, Secretary of State of. the United States of America; Harold Brown, Secretary of Defense of the United States of America; Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs; and General David Jones, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
On the Soviet side, A. A. Gromyko, Member of the Politburo of the CPSU and Minister of Foreign Affairs; D. F. Ustinov, Member of the Politburo of the CPSU and Minister of Defense; K. U. Chernenko, Member of the Politburo of the CPSU and Secretary of the Central Committee of the CPSU; and Marshal N. V. Ogarkov, First Deputy Minister of Defense of the USSR and Chief of the General Staff of the Armed Forces of the USSR.
Also participating in the talks were: On the American side, George Seignious, Director of the Arms Control and Disarmament Agency; Hamilton Jordan, Assistant to the President; Jody Powell, Assistant to the President; Malcolm Toon, Ambassador of the United States of America to the USSR; and Ralph Earle, Chief of the US Delegation at the Strategic Arms Limitation Talks.
On the Soviet side, A.M. Aleksandrov, Assistant to the General Secretary of the Central Committee of the CPSU; L. M. Zamyatin, Section Chief of the Central Committee of the CPSU; G. M. Korniyenko, First Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs of the USSR; A. F. Dobrynin, Ambassador of the USSR to the United States of America; V. G. Komplektov, Member of the Collegium of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the USSR; and V. P. Karpov, Chief of the USSR Delegation at the Strategic Arms Limitation Talks.
President Carter and President Brezhnev signed the Treaty on the Limitation of Strategic Offensive Arms. Basic issues of US-Soviet relations and pressing international problems were also discussed. The exchange of views was characterized by the desire to expand mutual understanding and to find mutually acceptable solutions to problems of interest to both sides. In their discussions they devoted special attention to reducing the risk of war through further limits on strategic arms and through other endeavors in arms limitation and disarmament.
The two sides expressed their appreciation to the Government of Austria for its hospitality and for providing all necessary facilities for the success of the meetings.
I. GENERAL ASPECTS OF US-SOVIET RELATIONS
There is agreement between the sides that the state of relations between the United States and the Soviet Union is of great importance for the fundamental interests of the peoples of both countries and that it significantly affects the development of the international situation as a whole. Recognizing the great responsibility connected with this, the sides have expressed their firm intent to continue working toward the establishment of a more stable and constructive foundation for US-Soviet relations. To this end, the two sides acknowledged the necessity of expanding areas of cooperation between them.
Such cooperation should be based on the principles of complete equality, equal security, respect for sovereignty and nonintervention in each other's internal affairs, and should facilitate the relaxation of international tension and the peaceful conduct of mutually beneficial relations between states, and thereby enhance international stability and world peace.
The sides reaffirmed their conviction that full implementation of each of the provisions of the "Basic Principles of Relations between the United States of America and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics" as well as other treaties and agreements concluded between them would contribute to a more stable relationship between the two countries.
The two sides stressed the importance of peaceful resolution of disputes, respect for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of states, and of efforts so that conflicts or situations would not arise which could serve to increase international tensions. They recognize the right of the peoples of all states to determine their future without outside interference.
Recognizing that an armed world conflict can and must be avoided, the sides believe that at the present time there is no more important and urgent task for mankind than ending the arms race and preventing war. They expressed their intention to make every effort to attain that goal. To that end, they also recognized the value of consultation between themselves and with other governments, at the United Nations and elsewhere, in order to prevent and eliminate conflict in various regions of the world.
The sides note with satisfaction the growing practice of contacts between government officials of the USA and the USSR in the course of which key questions of US-Soviet relations and pressing international issues are discussed. The process of developing useful ties between the US Congress and the Supreme Soviet of the USSR and of exchanges between non-governmental organizations is continuing.
The talks again confirmed the specific significance of personal meetings between the leaders of the USA and the USSR in resolving the basic questions in the relations between the two states. In principle, it has been agreed that such meetings will be held in the future on a regular basis, with the understanding that the specific timing will be determined' by mutual agreement.
Agreement has also been reached on broadening the practice of consultations and exchanges of opinion between representatives of the sides on other levels.
II. LIMITATIONS OF NUCLEAR AND CONVENTIONAL ARMS
The two sides reaffirmed their deep conviction that special importance should be attached to the problems of the prevention of nuclear war and to curbing the competition in strategic arms. Both sides recognized that nuclear war would be a disaster for all mankind. Each stated that it is not striving and will not strive for military superiority, since that can only result in dangerous instability, generating higher levels of armaments with no benefit to the security of either side.
Recognizing that the USA and the USSR have a special responsibility to reduce the risk of nuclear war and contribute to world peace, President Carter and President Brezhnev committed themselves to take major steps to limit nuclear weapons with the objective of ultimately eliminating them, and to complete successfully other arms limitation and disarmament negotiations.
SALT. In the course of the meeting, President Carter and President Brezhnev confirmed and signed the Treaty Between the USA and the USSR on the Limitation of Strategic Offensive Arms, the Protocol thereto, the Joint Statement of Principles and Basic Guidelines for Subsequent Negotiations on the Limitation of Strategic Arms and the document entitled Agreed Statements and Common Understandings Regarding the Treaty Between the USA and USSR on the Limitation of Strategic Offensive Arms.
At the same time, the sides again stressed the great significance of the Treaty on the Limitation of Anti-Ballistic Missile Systems and strict compliance with its provisions and of other agreements previously concluded between them in the field of strategic arms limitation and reducing the danger of nuclear war.
Both sides express their deep satisfaction with the process of the negotiations on strategic arms limitations and the fact that their persistent efforts for many years to conclude a new treaty have been crowned with success. This treaty sets equal ceilings on the nuclear delivery systems of both sides; to begin the process of reductions it requires the reduction of existing nuclear arms; to begin to limit the threat represented by the qualitative arms race it also places substantial constraints on the modernization of strategic offensive systems and the development of new ones.
The new Treaty on the Limitation of Strategic Offensive Arms and the Protocol thereto represent a mutual]y acceptable balance between the interests of the sides based on the principles of equality and equal security. These documents are a substantial contribution to the prevention of nuclear war and the deepening of detente, and thus serve the interests not only of the American and Soviet peoples, but the aspirations of mankind for peace.
The two sides reaffirmed their commitment strictly to observe every provision in the treaty.
President Carter and President Brezhnev discussed questions relating to the SALT III negotiations and in this connection expressed the firm intention of the sides to act in accordance with the Joint Statement of Principles and Basic Guidelines for Subsequent Negotiations on the Limitation of Strategic Arms.
Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty. It was noted that there has been definite progress at the negotiations, in which the UK is also participating, on an international treaty comprehensively banning test explosions of nuclear weapons in any environment and an associated protocol. They confirmed the intention of the USA and the USSR to work, together with the UK, to complete preparation of this treaty as soon as possible.
Non-proliferation. The two sides reaffirmed the importance they attach to nuclear non-proliferation. They consistently advocate the further strengthening of the regime of non-proliferation of nuclear weapons and confirm their resolve to continue to comply strictly with the obligations they have assumed under the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. They stressed the importance of applying comprehensive international safeguards under the International Atomic Energy Agency and pledged to continue their efforts to strengthen these safeguards.
They noted the profound threat posed to world security by the proliferation of nuclear weapons, and agreed that the states already possessing nuclear weapons bear a special responsibility to demonstrate restraint. To this end, they affirmed their joint conviction that further efforts are needed, including on a regional basis, and expressed the hope that the conclusion of the SALT II Treaty will make an important contribution toward nonproliferation objectives.
Both sides further committed themselves to close cooperation, along with other countries, to insure a successful conclusion to the Non-Proliferation Treaty Review Conference in 1980, and called upon all states which have not already done so to sign and ratify the Non-Proliferation Treaty.
Vienna Negotiations. President Carter and President Brezhnev emphasized the great importance the sides attached to the negotiations on the mutual reduction of forces and armaments and associated measures in Central Europe in which they are participating with other states. A reduction of the military forces of both sides and the implementation of associated measures in Central Europe would be a major contribution to stability and security.
ASAT. It was also agreed to continue actively searching for mutually acceptable agreement in the ongoing negotiations on anti-satellite systems.
Conventional Arms Transfers. The two sides agreed that their respective representatives will meet promptly to discuss questions related to the next round of negotiations on limiting conventional arms transfers.
Chemical Weapons. The two sides reaffirmed the importance of a general, complete and verifiable prohibition of chemical weapons and agreed to intensify their efforts to prepare an agreed joint proposal for presentation to the Committee on Disarmament.
Radiological Weapons. President Carter and President Brezhnev were pleased to be able to confirm that bilateral agreement on major elements of a treaty banning the development, production, stockpiling and use of radiological weapons has been reached. An agreed joint proposal will be presented to the Committee on Disarmament this year.
Indian Ocean. The two sides agreed that their respective representatives will meet promptly to discuss the resumption of the talks on questions concerning arms limitation measures in the Indian Ocean.
Other Questions of Arms Limitations and General Disarmament. In discussing other questions connected with solving the problems of limiting the arms race and of disarmament, the sides expressed their support for the Final Document adopted at the Special Session of the UN General Assembly on Disarmament. The sides noted their support for a second special session of the UN General Assembly devoted to disarmament and for that session to be followed by the convocation of a World Disarmament Conference with universal participation, adequately prepared and at an appropriate time.
The USA and the USSR will continue to cooperate between themselves and with other member states of the Committee on Disarmament with its enlarged membership for the purpose of working out effective steps in the field of disarmament in that forum.
In summing up the exchange of views on the state of negotiations being conducted between the USA and the USSR, or with their participation, on a number of questions connected with arms limitation and disarmament, the sides agreed to give new impetus to the joint efforts to achieve practical results at these negotiations.
III. INTERNATIONAL ISSUES
There was a broad exchange of views on major international issues. The sides expressed their support for the process of international detente which in their view should become increasingly specific in nature and spread to all areas of the globe, thus helping to promote increased international stability.
President Carter and President Brezhnev devoted particular attention to situations of tension which complicate the international situation and interfere with positive developments in other areas. The two sides believe that all states must conduct themselves with particular responsibility and restraint in order to contribute to the elimination of present situations of tension and to prevent new ones from arising.
The two sides noted the importance of increasing international cooperation on such global issues as the promotion of worldwide economic development, the protection of the environment, and the peaceful use of space and the world ocean for the benefit of all mankind. They expressed their support for the efforts of the developing countries to deal with the problems they face.
Noting the important role of the UN as an instrument for maintaining peace, security and the development of international cooperation, the USA and the USSR confirm their intention to promote the improvement of the effectiveness of this organization on the basis of the UN Charter.
The sides noted with satisfaction the positive developments which have taken place in recent years with respect to the situation on the European continent. They underscored the significance of the Final Act of the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe. The two sides agreed that continuation of the CSCE process is important to promote security and cooperation in Europe. They called attention to the need for full implementation of all the provisions of the Helsinki Final Act. The USA and the USSR will work to facilitate a constructive meeting of the representatives of the participating states of the All-European Conference, which is scheduled to take place in 1980 in Madrid.
Each side reaffirmed its interest in a just, comprehensive and lasting peace in the Middle East and set forth its position on ways and means of resolving the Middle East problem.
There was an exchange of views concerning developments in Africa. They noted some normalization of the situation in certain areas of that continent, and the efforts of the independent states of Africa toward cooperation, economic development and peaceful relations and the positive role in this respect of the Organization of African Unity. They also indicated their respective views regarding the situation in Southern Africa.
The sides recognized the importance to world peace of peace and stability in Asia. They agreed that the independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity of all nations in the area must be fully respected. They also indicated their respective views regarding the situation in Southeast Asia.
IV. COOPERATION IN BILATERAL MATTERS
The importance of cooperation between the USA and the USSR on the basis of mutual benefit, in accordance with the agreements which exist between the two countries, was emphasized. The sides took note of positive developments in the wide range of cultural, academic, scientific and technical exchange programs, which are continuing between the two countries.
Proceeding on the established principles of equality, reciprocity and mutual benefit as the basis for the conduct of such programs, the sides reaffirmed their commitment to continue and intensify cooperation in these areas.
The two sides confirmed that economic and commercial relations represent an important element in the development of improved bilateral ties. Both sides stated their position in favor of strengthening these relations, and recognized the necessity of working toward the elimination of obstacles to mutually beneficial trade and financial relations. The two sides expressed their determination to encourage the relevant organizations and enterprises in their respective countries to enter into mutually beneficial commercial agreements and contracts on a long-term basis.
President Carter and President Brezhnev expressed mutual satisfaction with the results of the talks which were held. They are convinced that the deepening of mutual understanding between the sides on several issues as a result of the meeting and the consistent implementation of the agreements which have been reached will facilitate the development of US-Soviet relations and represents a joint contribution of the two countries to strengthening detente, international security and peace.
JIMMY CARTER
President of the United States of America
L. BREZHNEV
General Secretary of the CPSU, Chairman of the Presidium of
the Supreme Soviet of the USSR
June 18, 1979
  