
    The President today announced the membership of the Presidential Task Force on the Arts and Humanities. The members will serve with Cochairmen Hanna H. Gray, Charlton Heston, and Daniel J. Terra, and Vice Chairman W. Barnabas McHenry. The Task Force will recommend to the President ways in which private support for the arts and humanities might be enhanced.
The members of the Task Force are:
Margo Albert, actress, member, National Council on the Arts
Dr. Edward C. Banfield, author, professor of government, Harvard University Anne Bass, trustee, Fort Worth Art Museum Dr. Daniel J. Boorstin, Librarian of Congress
Dr. William G. Bowen, president, Princeton University Joseph Coors, president, Adolph Coors Co.
Armand Deutsch, member, board of directors, Center Theatre Group, Los Angeles Music Center Virginia B. Duncan, Bechtel Corp.
Robert Fryer, artistic director, Ahmanson Theatre, Los Angeles Music Center
Henry Geldzahler, commissioner of cultural affairs, New York City
Gordon Hanes, chairman of the board, Hanes Corp.
Nancy Hanks, former Chairman, National Endowment for the Arts Dr. Paul R. Hanna, Hoover Institution Ernest
J. Kump, architect
June Noble Larkin, trustee, Edward John Noble Foundation
Dr. Robert M. Lumiansky, president, American Council of Learned Societies
Angus MacDonald, president, Angus MacDonald & Co., founder, cochairman, MIT Council on the Arts
Nancy Mehta, former vice president, Four Hundred Group, Los Angeles Music Center Arthur Mitchell, choreographer, Dance Theater of Harlem
Dr. Franklin D. Murphy, chairman of the board, Times Mirror Corp.
David Packard, chairman of the board, Hewlett-Packard Co.
Edmund Pillsbury, director, Kimbell Art Museum
Dr. George C. Roche, president, Hillsdale College Richard Mellon Scaife, chairman of the board, Tribune Review Publishing Co.
Franklin Schaffner, film producer and director, member, National Council on the Arts Beverly Sills, general director, New York City Opera
Leonard Silverstein, chairman of the executive committee, National Symphony Orchestra, Washington, D.C.
Robert I. Smith, president, Glen Meade Trust
Roger Stevens, Chairman of the Board of Trustees, John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts
John Swearingen, chairman of the board, Standard Oil Co.
Lucien Wulsin, chief executive officer, Baldwin United Corp.
Rawleigh Warner, Jr., chairman of the board, Mobil Oil Corp.
  