
    Our moral obligation is to the American workers, and we're committed to helping them climb that great ladder of success. --President Donald J. Trump
MODERNIZING FEDERAL HIRING: President Donald J. Trump is transforming the Federal hiring process to replace one-size-fits-all, degree-based hiring with skills-based hiring.

President Trump is signing an Executive Order requiring Federal agencies to focus hiring on the skills job seekers possess, rather than focusing on whether they earned a college degree.
The order requires Federal agencies to revise and update outdated Federal job qualification standards and candidate assessments, improving the quality and competency of the civil service.
Unnecessary degree requirements exclude otherwise qualified Americans from Federal employment, impose the expense of college on prospective workers, and disproportionately harm low-income Americans.
The order implements best practices already adopted by private sector leaders to promote equity and inclusion.
As a result of this reform, talented individuals with apprenticeships, technical training, and apt backgrounds will have greater opportunity to pursue careers in the Federal civil service.

STRENGTHENING OUR WORKFORCE: President Trump has prioritized strengthening America's workforce and empowering the American worker.

President Trump's Pledge to America's Workers has prompted more than 400 companies to commit career opportunities for more than 16 million American students and workers.
The President has worked to expand apprenticeship programs, helping more than 750,000 additional Americans gain hands-on training and experience with no student debt.
The Administration worked with Congress to reauthorize the Perkins CTE Act, providing more than $1 billion for States each year to fund vocational education programs.
President Trump issued a Presidential Memorandum prioritizing STEM Education to ensure that the American people have the skills necessary to succeed in the industries of the future.
The President's historic tax cuts led to increased wages, bonuses, and benefits for millions of American workers.

GETTING AMERICANS BACK TO WORK: The President's order comes at a pivotal moment and will help Americans across the country safely return to work.

Due to the coronavirus, millions of Americans were temporarily placed out of work through no fault of their own – now it is time to get back to work.
As we recover from the economic effects of the coronavirus, President Trump has taken action to jumpstart our economy and help Americans return to the workforce.
The President released guidelines on a safe, effective reopening that will benefit American workers.
To protect jobs for American workers, President Trump has placed a temporary pause on new immigration into the country from multiple visa categories.
The President signed legislation creating the Paycheck Protection Program, which allowed millions of Americans to keep their jobs.
The President's pro-growth economic policies will allow the Nation to recover quickly and prosper like never before.

  