
    Semiconductor Industry Association: Semiconductors form the nerve center of America's economy, national security, and critical infrastructure. We appreciate the Biden administration's focus on ensuring the strength and resilience of America's semiconductor supply chains and applaud the White House report's call for federal investments in domestic semiconductor production and innovation. We look forward to working with leaders in the Administration and Congress to swiftly enact needed federal investments in chip technology to help ensure more of the chips our country needs are researched, designed, and manufactured on U.S. shores. [Statement, 6/8/21]
Senator Dick Durbin: We cannot afford to allow our nation's essential supply chains to wither any further. Glad to see the Biden Admin. is making an effort to strengthen them—but Congress needs to act as well. And that starts by passing the U.S. Innovation and Competition Act. [Tweet, 6/8/21]
Consumer Brands: President Biden's approach to strengthening and assessing the vulnerabilities of critical supply chains has been spot-on. Today's recommendations reflect many of those shared by the consumer packaged goods industry over the last 18 months, including establishing a new Supply Chain Disruptions Task Force, leveraging data to track and monitor supply chain performance and convening a global forum on supply chain resilience…We look forward to working with the administration and Congress on winning solutions that deliver for U.S. consumers, manufacturers and workers. [Statement, 6/8/21]
Tom Conway, President, United Steelworkers International: The USW commends the Biden administration for directly tackling the problem of our nation's long-neglected supply chains and identifying concrete steps to shore up crucial vulnerabilities. Our union engaged in multiple stakeholder meetings with the administration after the president issued his executive order in February calling for 100-day reviews into key industrial supply chains. From employing the Defense Production Act to ensure we have ready access to active pharmaceutical ingredients, to supporting and financing advanced battery production, to identifying sites to domestically source critical minerals, the administration's final report makes common-sense recommendations that will not only strengthen our national security but protect and create good jobs. [Statement, 6/8/21]
General Motors: General Motors appreciates the Biden Administration's strong focus and leadership on critical supply chains including U.S. production of semiconductors to alleviate the ongoing shortage that continues to impact US automotive manufacturing and their increased focus on battery R&D and U.S. supply chains that will help us move towards an all-electric future. We look forward to continuing to work with the Administration and members of Congress on these important issues. We welcome the support to U.S. automotive manufacturing and the 10.3 million jobs the industry supports. [Statement, 6/8/21]
Ford: We appreciate President Biden's leadership and urgency in acting to strengthen our nation's critical supply chains and support American consumers and manufacturing. We will do our part by continuing to invest and build more vehicles in the U.S. than any automaker - while leading the transition to an electric and connected transportation future, in partnership with allies in both public and private sectors. [Statement, 6/8/21]
Senator Debbie Stabenow, Chairwoman, Senate Committee on Agriculture: This report shows what Michigan workers and I have been saying for a long time: the U.S. can compete for manufacturing jobs with anyone in the world—we just need to invest in the entire supply chain to do it. Let's get this done. [Tweet, 6/8/21]
Chamber of Commerce: The U.S. Chamber commends the administration for a deliberative, evidence-based approach to supply chain review that draws input from across the business community and other stakeholders. [Statement, 6/8/21]
Brad Smith, CEO, Microsoft: Today, @WhiteHouse shared findings from a review of critical supply chains. We will continue to support strong, bipartisan efforts in Congress and the Administration to advance the security and resilience of the US supply chain. [Tweet, 6/8/21]
Representative Doris Matsui: In February, I met with @POTUS and @VP to discuss global supply chain shortages of semiconductors. As we work toward economic recovery, the formation of this important task force will be critical to maintain U.S. leadership in this important technology. It's essential we seize every opportunity to secure the semiconductor supply chain that's vital for innovations in 5G networks, healthcare, and computing. This task force will make sure that our country can maintain the ability to produce the hardware that our economy depends on. [Tweet, 6/8/21]
Representative Eric Swalwell: The pandemic uncovered alarming structural weaknesses in our supply chains. These weaknesses threaten America's economic & national security & I am pleased to see @POTUS making a domestic supply of critical materials a priority. As chair of the Congressional Critical Materials Caucus and the author of the Securing Energy Critical Elements and American Jobs Act, I know that strengthening American supply chains means economic security, national security, & well-paying, union jobs here at home. [Tweet, 6/8/21]
Rory L. Gamble, President, United Auto Workers: After taking office, the Biden administration started an in-depth review of critical supply chains in pharmaceuticals, high-capacity batteries, semiconductors, and critical minerals. Given that the latter three are critical to the next generation of automobiles, heavy trucks, and industrial equipment, the UAW was actively engaged with the administration's review. This morning the administration released its findings. It is a comprehensive, whole of government approach to our supply chain problems. It puts American workers first, seeing them as foundational for reshoring manufacturing. The plan invests in workers' training, supports good wages and benefits, and wholeheartedly defends workers' rights to organize and collectively bargain… We agree with President Biden that the key to resolving these issues is to use our government incentives to invest in the American worker and tie legislative and policy actions to the on-shoring and creation of good-paying union scale jobs. Investing in making these products domestically and ensuring adequate supplies protects manufacturing from these shortages. We look forward to working the Administration, congress, and other stakeholders to enact a manufacturing agenda that puts working people first. [Statement, 6/8/21]
Robert Martinez Jr., President, Machinists Union: The review is a giant leap forward in building back better U.S. manufacturing jobs that continue to be hard hit since the beginning of the pandemic. The recommendations in the review provide realistic and effective measures for rebuilding our supply chains and creating jobs here at home in the industries of the future. Among other recommendations, we applaud efforts to strengthen the application of Buy American laws, examine the Export-Import Bank's ability to further support domestic manufacturing, and a commitment to ensure new industries adhere to high labor standards that include employer neutrality agreements. [Statement, 6/8/21]
John Bozella, CEO, Auto Innovators: We applaud the Biden Administration's work toward a long-term, comprehensive approach to supply chain resiliency, particularly concerning semiconductors, high-capacity batteries, and critical minerals. This strategic approach recognizes the economic benefits of U.S. manufacturing and global leadership, as well as cutting-edge auto technology developments. [Statement, 6/8/21]
TechNet, bipartisan network of innovation economy CEOs and senior executives: We applaud President Biden and his administration for examining our critical supply chains and calling for increased federal investment in domestic battery, mineral, and semiconductor production. This investment will spur innovation and economic growth and add countless jobs while strengthening America's global competitiveness. As the report makes clear, it is critical for the U.S. to develop domestic manufacturing for essential technologies as soon as possible. We look forward to working with the President and Congress to fully implement the CHIPS Act to increase chip production, incentivize manufacturing and innovation, and drive our economy forward. [Statement, 6/8/21]
Zero Emission Transportation Association: We are pleased to see the Administration focus on ways we can make supply chains more resilient, diverse and secure. If fully implemented, the recommendations outlined in this report are certain to set us on a path for sustainable development that will benefit not only electric vehicles, but our entire clean energy economy. It's paramount for Congress to now advance the policies that will drive consumer adoption of EVs called for in this report. [Statement, 6/8/21]
John Mitchell, CEO, IPC - US Electronic Manufacturer: For far too long, the U.S. Government has neglected its important role in strengthening the nation's manufacturing base and instead has watched passively as other countries around the world invested in their manufacturing capabilities. U.S. electronics manufacturers appreciate the Biden administration's decision to highlight the longstanding and significant challenges facing the U.S. electronics manufacturing base as a result. [Statement, 6/8/21]
Coherus BiosSciences: Coherus BioSciences applauds President Biden on today's announcement to secure our nation's supply chains…These proposals and regulatory initiatives, such as what was announced today, will hopefully allow American companies like ours to continue expanding and bringing value to both patients and taxpayers. We look forward to working with the Biden-Harris Administration and Congress to reward and promote domestic manufacturing and products."
  