
    ON BEHALF of the people of the United States, I am taking this means of expressing our deeply felt grief and distress concerning the major catastrophe which has befallen our sister nation of Peru. The earthquake which struck northern Peru on May 31st destroyed entire villages and brought death to tens of thousands. Hundreds of thousands are now homeless and survivors face the prospects of widespread hunger and disease. This event is described as the worst natural calamity in Peru's history and perhaps the history of South America.
The people of this hemisphere and of the entire world share a deep concern for what the Peruvian people are suffering-for the plight of the homeless and injured and orphaned. They know that a monumental effort is urgently required to gain access to the stricken area, and to provide transportation for needed medical personnel and supplies, food, clothing, and shelter.
The people of the United States stand ready with the peoples of all the American nations to respond to the requests of our sister Republic of Peru in this time of its great need. We are prepared not only to help with what Peru may need today, but also to aid in the long and arduous task of rebuilding an entire region of that nation.
The United States has already begun to move emergency assistance and supplies to Peru. Several airplanes and ships carrying disaster relief supplies and personnel have already been dispatched. An AID grant of $10 million for immediate relief and rehabilitation has been authorized. Private United States organizations are also contributing significant amounts of supplies and assistance of various kinds.
I am taking this opportunity to announce other actions to assist the Government of Peru in meeting its emergency relief needs:
1. I am directing the establishment of a Special Steering Group, under the direction of Secretary Finch to plan and coordinate all United States Government participation in Peruvian relief efforts and to assure close liaison with the Peruvian Government. The Special Steering Group will include representatives of the State Department, HEW, AID, the Department of Defense, and the Peace Corps.
2. I have asked the Director of the Peace Corps, Joseph Blatchford, working under the guidance of Secretary Finch and the Special Steering Group, to coordinate and organize a program which would provide an opportunity for American citizens, particularly young Americans, to participate in relief and long-term reconstruction efforts to the extent their services can be effectively utilized by the Peruvian Government.
3. I have asked Secretary of State Rogers and AID Administrator Hannah to consider additional ways in which we might cooperate with Peru in meeting the longer-term problems of rehabilitation and reconstruction.
It is our fervent hope that a great common effort of the American nations can limit and relieve the suffering which this earthquake has brought to our sister republic and can help Peru make a speedy recovery from this calamity.
  