
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
May 30
In the evening, the President attended a Progressive Foundation conference in the Game Lodge at the White Oak Plantation in Yulee, FL. Later, he and Hillary Clinton returned to Washington, DC.
May 31
In the morning, the President traveled to Arlington, VA, and in the afternoon, he returned to Washington, DC.
June 1
In the afternoon, the President attended a Democratic National Committee Leadership 2000 luncheon at a private residence.
The President announced his intention to appoint Ned McWherter as a member of the American Battle Monuments Commission.
June 2
In the morning, the President traveled to Colorado Springs, CO. While en route aboard Air Force One, he had a telephone conversation with Mayor Jim Dailey of Little Rock, AR, concerning the crash landing of American Airlines Flight 1420 at Little Rock National Airport.
In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC.
The President announced his intention to nominate Michael D. Metelits to be Ambassador to Cape Verde.
The President announced his intention to nominate F. Whitten Peters to be Secretary of the Air Force.
The President announced his intention to appoint John Kimball as a member of the Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission.
The President announced his intention to appoint Norman F. Ramsey as a member of the President's Committee on the National Medal of Science.
The President announced his intention to appoint Lori Saldana as a member of the Advisory Council of the Border Environment Cooperation Commission.
June 3
In the afternoon, the President had a telephone conversation with Secretary of State Madeleine Albright and Deputy Secretary of State Strobe Talbott and another with Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder of Germany, concerning possible solutions to the situation in the Balkans.
The President announced his intention to appoint Rudolph Estrada, Samuel Fried, Janice Griffin, Susan Levine, Brian O'Dwyer, Reginald Robinson, and Tom Werner as members of the President's Commission on White House Fellowships.
The President announced his intention to appoint Ann F. Lewis, Molly Murphy MacGregor, and Ruth J. Simmons to the Women's Progress Commemoration Commission.
June 4
The President announced the recess appointment of James C. Hormel as Ambassador to Luxembourg.
The President announced his intention to nominate David H. Kaeuper to be Ambassador to the Republic of the Congo.
  