
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate three individuals, appoint four individuals, and upon confirmation and appointment designate three individuals to serve in his Administration:
The President intends to nominate David H. Laufman, of Texas, to be Inspector General of the Department of Defense. Mr. Laufman currently serves as Assistant United States Attorney for the Eastern District of Virginia. Prior to this, he served as Chief of Staff for the Office of the Deputy Attorney General at the Department of Justice. Earlier in his career, he served as Investigative Counsel for the House Ethics Committee. Mr. Laufman received his bachelor's degree from the University of Pennsylvania and his JD from Georgetown University.
The President intends to nominate Charles D. Nottingham, of Virginia, to be a Member of the Surface Transportation Board and upon confirmation designate Chairman, for the remainder of a five-year term expiring December 31, 2010. Mr. Nottingham currently serves as Associate Administrator for Policy and Government Affairs for the Federal Highway Administration at the Department of Transportation. Prior to this, he served as Counsel to the House Committee on Government Reform and the Subcommittee on Technology, Information Policy, Intergovernmental Relations and the Census. Earlier in his career, he served as Commonwealth Transportation Commissioner for the Virginia Department of Transportation. Mr. Nottingham received his bachelor's degree from Wesleyan University and his JD from George Mason University.
The President intends to nominate Charles Darwin Snelling, of Pennsylvania, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Metropolitan Washington Airports Authority, for the remainder of a six-year term expiring May 30, 2012.
The President intends to appoint George Nesterczuk, of Virginia, to be a Member of the Federal Salary Council for Labor Relations and Pay Policy and upon appointment designate Vice Chairman.
The President intends to appoint Dallas Rob Sweezy, of Virginia, to be a Member of the President's Committee for People with Intellectual Disabilities and upon appointment designate Chair, for the remainder of a two-year term expiring May 11, 2008.
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the Advisory Committee to the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation:
R. Todd Gardenhire, of Tennessee (Employer Representative), for the remainder of a three-year term expiring February 19, 2007
Nelson W. Wolff, of Texas, (Public Representative), for a three-year term expiring February 19, 2009
  