
    Dear Jerry:
I accept with great reluctance your letter of resignation from the Council of Economic Advisers effective July 31, 1982, but I understand your desire to return to your academic position.
Your talents and contributions have proven invaluable in designing and implementing this Administration's economic program. I am very sorry that personal considerations led you to leave the Council of Economic Advisers at this particular time.
You have my best wishes for a successful future.
Sincerely,
RONALD REAGAN
[The Honorable Jerry L. Jordan, Council of Economic Advisers, Washington, D.C. 20500]
June 29, 1982
Dear Mr. President:
It has been an honor and a privilege to serve in your Administration. In the first year and one half in office you have established a new direction in economic policies for the country which will endure long after we have all left office. For personal reasons I am resigning from the Council of Economic Advisers, but I do so knowing that the country is beginning a new period of prosperity that will demonstrate the wisdom of the policies you have been pursuing since taking office.
The example the United States is setting for the rest of the world is important to the preservation of personal liberties and private initiative. It has not been easy for us to begin implementing your economic policies, and it will not be easy for other countries to follow. But, a successful model of regulatory reform, tax reduction, spending limitation and monetary stability will tempt others to follow our example. It is a good and well-balanced program that challenges the advocates of statism and protectionism more than any other time in modern history.
Although I am leaving the Council, I will remain a strong advocate of your policies. Your courage and optimism have been a great inspiration.
With great respect and admiration, I ask that you accept my resignation effective July 31, 1982.
Best wishes for a continued successful Presidency.
Sincerely,
JERRY L. JORDAN
[President Ronald W. Reagan, The White House]
  