
    THE PRESIDENT. This morning it's my very pleasant duty, on behalf of the people of the United States, to welcome Their Majesties King Hussein of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan and Her Majesty Queen Noor.
There is a great deal in common between our two people, the Kingdom of Jordan and the United States of America: ties of friendship; the deep roots of shared experience; long years of consultation and cooperation, a cooperation based on mutual interest, which we both recognize, and on beliefs in the same basic principles and a foundation of mutual respect, one for another. This friendship, this relationship, has been tested in crisis, and it has stood all tests without damage.
We know that our people want the same things: peace, peace through strength; dignity of individual human beings; proper attention to human rights and the nurturing of the talent and ability of each person; economic progress; taking advantage of technological improvements in the world around us; and at the same time the preservation of the principles which never change. As is the case between independent nations, there are sometimes some differences of approach about how to deal with current crises, but we have always let these differences be properly aired. And as I've said earlier, they have never damaged the basic mutual commitment and the basic relationship which binds our two countries together.
We recognize that the Middle East, the cradle of recorded human history, has been torn and is torn now by tension, by an absence of understanding and trust, inadequate communications, turmoil, sometimes suffering from war too often, and also the threat of terrorism. We know that we must end these threats to peace and alleviate this tension and end the threat of terrorism and bloodshed. The conflict which has torn this region can be settled and must be settled with dignity and with justice. We share this commitment, and we share this belief, and we share these mutual goals, because we recognize the tremendous benefits, not only to the people of that region but to the people of almost every nation on Earth, to bring about peace and stability in this troubled land.
It is not an easy thing to accomplish. There are doubts about the prospects for peace, and there are differences about the route to take to achieve peace. His Majesty has shown in his enlightened rule over courageous people his commitment to progress, to economic development, to a better life for those who look to him for leadership. And at the same time he's been able to preserve, in the finest possible way, the traditional values of his people, of their religion, of their history, which never change.
We have the same basic challenge: to approach the future with confidence; to accommodate inevitable change; to provide better economic and other opportunities for our people, but to preserve basic values.
This year we join in the observation of the 14th centennial of the world of Islam, for the spiritual and intellectual and moral contributions of these worldwide worshipers mean so much to us all. It's an honor for us to participate in a proper way in this notable observance.
We are also mutually committed to the stability of the Persian Gulf region and to Southwest Asia, the preservation of peace, the honoring of international boundaries, the cohesion of nations, independence of people, and the preservation of their security. The search for peace is filled with difficulty and complexity, but there is no doubt that it's worthy of the most persistent and notable effort. It's vital for the future of all.
With these observations of our common commitments, it's an additional pleasure for me to welcome again Their Majesties representing the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan. This is an honor for us and a pleasure on this beautiful day in the lives of two peoples bound together by so many common commitments, principles, ideals, and hope for the future.Your Majesty, you're welcome.
THE KING. Mr. President, both Queen Noor and I feel happiness and pleasure at having this opportunity to visit the United States and to be with you here today, sir. We thank you and Mrs. Carter for making it possible for us to accept your kind invitation, to be amongst friends, to be once again in the United States.
Indeed it has been a march throughout the years by our peoples in many fields and in many areas with their dedication to the same aims and objectives, their following of the same principles and values and their sharing of a common vision of a better future—a future with dignity for mankind; a future of peace with justice; a future that will give the generations that follow us better opportunities, better times than those we have had to endure.
There is much indeed, sir, that we share. And regardless of the differences in terms of outlook regarding the route, as you say, to achieve an objective or to reach a goal, we do believe very much in the firm commitment of both our governments and peoples and ourselves to the same goals and the same objectives. Our world is facing enormous difficulties at this point in time. It's a privilege and a very, very great pleasure for me to have this opportunity to benefit from your wisdom, to convey to you our impressions, to share with you thoughts and ideas regarding the times ahead and the responsibilities that we bear towards the future.
I look forward to my meetings with you, sir, and with our friends here. And, once again, I, my government and people are proud that we have always adhered to the same principles, we've always upheld the same ideals on which this Nation, the greatest in our times, was created and stands for.
Thank you very, very much indeed, sir, for your courtesy and your kindness.
  