
    President Donald J. Trump today announces the nomination of the following individuals to key positions in his Administration:
Peter Gaynor of Rhode Island, to be Deputy Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency at the Department of Homeland Security.
Director Gaynor previously served as the Director of the Providence Emergency Management Agency and most recently as the Director of the Rhode Island Emergency Management Agency. Prior to these positions, he spent over two decades in the United States Marine Corps as an enlisted marine and infantry officer. He served as the executive officer responsible for the security of Camp David, and as the head of Plans, Policy, & Operations at Marine Corps Headquarters during the attacks of September 11, 2001. Director Gaynor received a B.A. in history from Rhode Island College and a M.A. in national security and strategic studies from the Naval War College in Newport, Rhode Island.
Julia Akins Clark of Maryland, to be a Member of the Merit Systems Protection Board for the remainder of a seven year term expiring March 1, 2021.
Ms. Clark currently serves as the Deputy General Counsel of the Congressional Office of Compliance where she administers the General Counsel's Congressional Accountability Act responsibilities. Previously, Ms. Clark served two terms as the presidentially appointed, Senate-confirmed general counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority. Ms. Clark began her legal career as a trial attorney in the United States Department of Justice and then practiced labor law for over twenty years representing unions and union-represented employees. She earned her law degree from American University, Washington College of Law and her undergraduate degree from Oklahoma Baptist University, where she was a Senator Robert S. Kerr Public Affairs Scholar and graduated summa cum laude.
John C. Fleming of Louisiana, to be the Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Economic Development.
Dr. Fleming is a physician, entrepreneur, military veteran, and four-term Member of Congress currently serving at the Department of Health and Human Services since his appointment in March 2017. Dr. Fleming opened his family medicine practice in Minden, Louisiana, in 1982, after serving six years as a medical officer in the United States Navy. Additionally, he launched various non-medical companies still in operation today with over six hundred employees. During his time in Congress, Dr. Fleming served as a member of the Armed Services and Natural Resources Committees, Chairman of the Subcommittee on Fisheries, Wildlife, Oceans and Insular Affairs, and Co-Chairman of the GOP Doctors Caucus. Dr. Fleming earned his B.S. and M.D. at the University of Mississippi.
  