
    Presidential Determination No. 96-34
Memorandum for the Secretary of State
Subject: Bosnian Compliance on Withdrawal of Foreign Forces and Terminating Intelligence Cooperation With Iran
Pursuant to Public Law 104-122, I hereby determine and certify that:

the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina has complied with Article III of Annex 1-A of the General Framework Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina concerning the withdrawal of foreign forces; and that
intelligence cooperation on training, investigations and related activities between Iranian officials and Bosnian officials has been terminated.

You are authorized and directed to report this determination and certification to the appropriate committees of the Congress and to publish it in the Federal Register.
WILLIAM J. CLINTON
THE WHITE HOUSE,
Washington, June 26, 1996.
Memorandum of Justification
On June 26, 1996, pursuant to Public Law 104-122, the President determined and certified that:

the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina has complied with Article III of Annex 1-A of the General Framework Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina concerning the withdrawal of foreign forces; and that
intelligence cooperation on training, investigations, and related activities between Iranian officials and Bosnian officials has been terminated.

The President reached this determination on the basis of all available information. We have also received explicit assurances from the Bosnian Government that foreign forces have been withdrawn and that the intelligence and military relationship with Iran has ended.
With respect to foreign forces, while some individuals have assimilated into Bosnian society and assumed civilian roles, there is no evidence of any remaining organized military units of Mujahedin or other foreign forces in Bosnia. With respect to the Iranians, the Bosnian government has assured that all IRGC personnel we identified to them have left Bosnia. We have no evidence that those IRGC remain. The Bosnian government has also assured us that none of the Iranians can be brought back to Bosnia without its knowledge and that, should any of them return, they would be expelled.
Although we have insisted that the Bosnian government end bilateral intelligence cooperation in such operational areas as training and investigations, and end all military ties, we have never demanded that all Iranian nationals depart Bosnia or that Bosnia terminate diplomatic or economic relations with Tehran. The Bosnian government has moved to end the operational military and intelligence relationship with Iran. It has removed from positions of authority key officials that were heavily engaged in intelligence cooperation with Iran, including the former head of the Bosnian intelligence agency.
We will continue to monitor compliance and will work with the Bosnian Government through a Joint Commission established in Sarajevo to resolve future allegations of non-compliance.
  