
    The President today announced the appointments of the 1990 - 91 White House fellows. This is the 26th class of fellows since the program was established in 1964. Twelve fellows were chosen from nearly 1,000 applicants who were screened by 11 regional panels. The President's Commission on White House Fellowships, chaired by Ronna Romney, interviewed the 33 national finalists prior to recommending the 12 persons to the President. Their year of government service will begin September 1, 1990.
Fellows serve for 1 year as special assistants to the President's principal staff, the Vice President, and members of the Cabinet. In addition to the work assignments, the fellowship includes an education program that parallels and broadens the unique experience of working at the highest levels of the Federal Government. The program is open to U.S. citizens in the early stages of their careers and from all occupations and professions. Federal Government employees are not eligible, with the exception of career Armed Forces personnel. Leadership, character, intellectual and professional ability, and commitment to community and national service are the principal criteria employed in the selection of fellows.
Applications for the 1991 - 92 program are available from the President's Commission on White House Fellowships, 712 Jackson Place, NW, Washington, DC 20503.
The 1990 - 91 White House fellows are:
Andrew I. Batavia, of Washington, DC. Mr. Batavia is the Director of the Health Services Research Program at the National Rehabilitation Hospital Research Center in Washington, DC. He is also a faculty member of the department of community and family medicine of the Georgetown School of Medicine in Washington and has authored over 20 publications on issues of health care and disability policy. Mr. Batavia graduated from the University of California at Riverside (B.A., 1980). He received an M.S. degree in health services research from Stanford Medical School in 1983 and graduated from Harvard Law School (J.D., 1984). Mr. Batavia was born June 15, 1957, in Brooklyn, NY.
Samuel Dale Brownback, of Topeka, KS. Mr. Brownback serves as the secretary of agriculture in the State of Kansas. A specialist in agricultural law, he has taught at Kansas State University and has written numerous articles and two books on the subject. Mr. Brownback graduated from Kansas State University (B.S., 1979) and from the University of Kansas (J.D., 1982). Mr. Brownback was born September 12, 1956, in Garnett, KS.
Robert Bruce Chess, of Palo Alto, CA. Mr. Chess is the president of Penederm, a biotechnology company he cofounded in 1986. A successful entrepreneur with both a technology and business background, he has started two companies and helped in the establishment of three others during the past 6 years. Mr. Chess graduated from California Institute of Technology (B.S., 1978) and from Harvard Graduate School of Business (M.B.A., 1980). He was born January 31, 1957, in Inglewood, CA.
Jody Ann Greenstone, of Greenville, SC. Ms. Greenstone is a vice president in public finance with the Robinson-Humphrey Co., Inc., a subsidiary of Shearson Lehman Hutton. Her interest in the improvement of housing in South Carolina has afforded her the opportunity to serve as a member of the board of the South Carolina Low Income Housing Coalition and as an appointee to the South Carolina Affordable Housing Council. Ms. Greenstone graduated from the University of Michigan (B.A., 1979) and from the University of Virginia School of Law (J.D., 1982). She was born March 18, 1958, in Philadelphia, PA.
Robert R. Grusky, of Croton-on-Hudson, NY. Mr. Grusky is a vice president in the investment banking division of Goldman, Sachs & Co. He actively supports the Hackley School in Tarrytown, NY, where he serves as a member of the alumni board of directors and as an adviser to the investment committee of their board of trustees. Mr. Grusky graduated from Union College (B.A., 1979) and from the Harvard Business School (M.B.A., 1985). He was born August 19, 1957, in New York City.
Willie Arthur Gunn, of Fort Lauderdale, FL. Captain Gunn serves in the U.S. Air Force as a circuit defense counsel for a five-State region in the western United States, defending service members in complex criminal cases. He also serves as vice chairperson of the National Bar Association's military law section. Captain Gunn graduated from the U.S. Air Force Academy (B.S., 1980) and from Harvard Law School (J.D., 1986). He was born December 14, 1958, in Birmingham, AL.
Randall Herman Kehl, of Albuquerque, NM. Major Kehl serves in the U.S. Air Force as an attorney in the office of the Judge Advocate General, Washington, DC. He has been a member of the adjunct law faculty at the University of Alaska, and in 1989 the American Bar Association honored him as the Outstanding Young Military Service Lawyer of the Year. Major Kehl graduated from the U.S. Air Force Academy (B.S., 1976) and from the Graduate School of Business Administration, University of North Dakota (M.B.A., 1980). He graduated from the School of Law, Pepperdine University (J.D., 1983). Major Kehl was born May 18, 1954, in Furstenfeldbruck, Germany.
John William Miller, of Annapolis, MD. Lieutenant Commander Miller is a flight officer in the U.S. Navy. He is presently assigned as a leadership section head in the department of leadership and law at the U.S. Naval Academy, Annapolis, MD. In 1984 he was selected as the Fighter Wing One Radar Intercept Officer of the Year and the Atlantic Fleet Naval Flight Officer of the Year. He graduated from the U.S. Naval Academy in 1979 and is a recent graduate of the Naval War College. Lieutenant Commander Miller was born October 2, 1957, in Chicago, IL.
Eric McLaren Phillips, of Maplewood, NJ. Mr. Phillips is currently a district manager within AT&T International Communications Services, Basking Ridge, NJ. In 1989, he received an Outstanding Service Award from AT&T Bell Laboratories for his exceptional contribution in his field of electrical engineering and computer science. Mr. Phillips graduated from McMaster in Canada (B.S., 1976) and from New York University (M.B.A., 1983). He was born October 19, 1952, in Dundee, Mahaicony, Guyana.
Edward Augustus Rice, Jr., of Yellow Springs, OH. Major Rice is currently assigned as a rated force manager in the directorate of plans and operations, U.S. Air Force, Washington, DC. He is a distinguished Air Force pilot and graduated with highest distinction from the College of Naval Command and Staff at the Naval War College in Newport, RI. Major Rice graduated from the U.S. Air Force Academy (B.S., 1978) and from Embry Riddle Aeronautical University (M.S., 1987). He was born March 31, 1956, in Albuquerque, NM.
Joseph E. Samora, Jr., of Albuquerque, NM. Mr. Samora is chairman of the New Mexico Public Service Commission. In 1988, he was selected by the American Bar Association's young lawyers division's Barrister magazine as one of "20 Young Lawyers in the United States Who Make a Difference." He graduated from the University of New Mexico (B.A., 1978) and from the University of New Mexico School of Law (J.D., 1982). Mr. Samora was born September 6, 1955, in Albuquerque, NM.
Kimberly Till, of Prattville, AL. Ms. Till is an international management consultant with Bain & Co. in London, England. In 1980 - 81, she was selected as a Henry Luce scholar and spent a year working in Japan on trade and investment projects. She graduated from the University of Alabama (B.A., 1977), from Duke University School of Law (J.D., 1980), and from the Harvard Graduate School of Business Administration (M.B.A., 1983). Ms. Till was born September 22, 1955, in Bainbridge, MD.
  