
    BREAKING NEWS: The AP is reporting that Clinton lied about turning over all her work-related emails on her secret server to the State Department for review. In the latest blow to Clinton's secret server spin, nearly three dozen pages of emails between Clinton and her top aide Huma Abedin were on Clinton's secret server were not turned over by Clinton last year at the State Department's request. We now know that Clinton's repeated assertion that she turned over everything work-related from her time at the State Department is not true.
Last August, Clinton certified under "penalty of perjury," that she turned over all emails at clintonemail.com, "that were or potentially were federal records be provided to the Department of State."
(Hillary Clinton, Declaration On Content Of Emails, Supplement To Defendant's August 7, 2015 Status Report, Executed 8/8/15)
"More Clinton Emails Released, Including Some She Deleted" By Michael Biesecker
"Another 165 pages of emails from Hillary Clinton's time at the State Department surfaced Monday, including nearly three dozen that the presumptive Democratic presidential nominee failed to hand over last year that were sent through her private server.
The latest emails were released under court order by the State Department to the conservative legal advocacy group Judicial Watch. The batch includes 34 new emails Clinton exchanged through her private account with her deputy chief of staff, Huma Abedin. The aide, who also had a private email account on Clinton's home server, later gave her copies to the government.
The emails were not among the 55,000 pages of work-related messages that Clinton turned over to the agency in response to public records lawsuits seeking copies of her official correspondence. They include a March 22, 2009, message where the then-secretary of state discusses how her official records would be kept.
"I have just realized I have no idea how my papers are treated at State," Clinton wrote to Abedin and a second aide. "Who manages both my personal and official files? ... I think we need to get on this asap to be sure we know and design the system we want.""
  