
    STATEMENT OF ADMINISTRATION POLICY
(House Rules)(Rep. DeFazio, D-OR, and five cosponsors)
The Administration supports House passage of H.R. 3684, the Investing in a New Vision for the Environment and Surface Transportation (INVEST) in America Act. This legislation aligns with the Administration's goals to repair and rebuild aging infrastructure, reduce greenhouse gas emissions, improve resilience to the effects of climate change, invest in communities of color that too often were left behind by past infrastructure plans, connect disadvantaged communities to economic opportunity, improve health and safety outcomes, create good-paying jobs with the choice to join a union, and increase the use of goods, products, and materials made in America.
The United States ranks 13th in infrastructure quality and faces a maintenance backlog of over $1 trillion in transportation alone. These figures have real costs to businesses and individuals, who bear the burden of congestion, delays, and missed opportunity. In the U.S., the transportation sector is the largest contributor to greenhouse gas emissions and is also one of the most vulnerable sectors to the impacts of climate change. And, too often, past transportation decisions disproportionately and negatively impacted low-income neighborhoods and communities of color. Modern, sustainable, equitable, and resilient transportation infrastructure is necessary for a thriving, equitable economy that positions the U.S. to win the 21st century.
H.R. 3684 would reauthorize the U.S. Department of Transportation's core programs that support investments in roads, bridges, safety, transit, rail, freight, and multimodal projects, and in research and innovation. The bill seeks to modernize and transform these programs with a focus on safety, climate, equity, and good-paying jobs. In addition, H.R. 3684 would establish a number of programs aligned with the President's vision, including programs that would support electric vehicle charging infrastructure, expand intercity passenger rail, strive to ensure safe streets for all, reconnect communities, and improve resilience to the impacts of climate change. Furthermore, the bill would provide dedicated resources for low-income communities and require consideration of equity and environmental justice in funding decisions. The bill also includes important provisions to support domestic manufacturing, prevailing wages, registered apprenticeships, and other labor protections.
H.R. 3684 aligns with the Administration's goals to upgrade and modernize aging water infrastructure and prioritize lead service line replacements, which reduces exposure to lead, a neurotoxin that is especially harmful to children. The bill would help the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) partner with communities on the frontlines of protecting public health and the environment. H.R. 3684 would reinvigorate the EPA's drinking water and wastewater programs, authorize much-needed funding to support small and disadvantaged communities, and address challenges associated with climate change and emerging contaminants. The Administration supports efforts to improve public health by taking steps to reduce exposure to per-and polyfluoroalkyl substances and is pressing forward with targeted actions in its regulatory agenda to achieve this goal.
The Administration looks forward to working with the Congress on this bill, which lays a strong foundation for achieving the President's vision on infrastructure.
  