
    Pool Reports by Cassie Semyon, Spectrum News 



Sent:
Reports:




June 14, 2023 09:58

SGOTUS Pool Report #1
 Hi all,
I am your pooler for the Second Gentleman this morning. He's attending a roundtable event at the Library of Congress in the Whitetail Pavilion this morning. The roundtable is hosted by the Congressional Dads caucus for a "discussion on issues affecting working families."
Per the Second Gentleman's office, during the roundtable, "the Second Gentleman will highlight how the Biden-Harris Administration is delivering results for Americans. This roundtable will have a pool spray at the top."
Your pooler is currently holding down the hall, but was taken in to see the room ahead of the event. There is a small antechamber that has signs for the Congressional Dads Caucus, and signs with slogans such as equal pay and affordable childcare posted around the room. In the actual room, there are four tables set up in a square, with chairs on the outside. Staffers were setting each seat as your pooler was taken in for a look.
Some of the participants in today's discussion include Jessica Seinfeld with the Good Plus Foundation, Gary Barker of Equimundo, Kenneth Braswell of Fathers, Inc., Vikki Shabo of New America at Better Life Lab, Heidi Murkoff of What to Expect Project, and Rodrigo Stein with La Clinica and is also a new dad!
More to come…


June 14, 2023 10:35

SGOTUS Pool Report #2
 The Second Gentleman and Rep. Gomez entered the room at 10:02am. The room was quiet, and Emhoff joked "it's a library but you can talk," which drew a hearty round of laughs.
Rep. Gomez starts talking about his own experience going viral with his son Hodge, and how family issues need to be addressed by congress such as paid family leave, childcare, etc. "we dads also have a responsibility to advocate for our families in the halls of Congress, and i want to find a way to turn that moment into a movement. So we started the Congressional Dads Caucus on the simple premise that dads need to step up and do our part."
SGOTUS starts by saying Gomez is from his hometown and that "we're very proud of you and the work you've been doing."
SGOTUS says "I am first and foremost as a dad…" says he approaches every role he takes on from lawyer to Second Gentleman as a dad. "I remember when they were born, that in those days there was such a stigma around taking leave." Says he "regrets" not doing so for his kids Ella and Cole to this day. He encourages people to take the leave and spend time with their kids.
This administration puts families front and center, and touts the administration's efforts to make life easier for families, and that they have cut child poverty in America nearly in half.
"We need to work on this child tax credit. We need to allow parents to have that time with their children. And this is not controversial. This is something that goes on around the world everywhere and it's something we need to do here."
Also in attendance is Rep. Dan Goldman, D-NY. Goldman made brief remarks about how this is an issue that should be bipartisan, and how essential access to childcare is. Jessica Seinfeld and Rodrigo Stein also made some remarks.
Pool was allowed to listen to remarks for about 26 minutes before we were ushered out so the roundtable could have a frank conversation.
As always, please check quotes against the otter: https://otter.ai/u/5kP09JJYOGD9MrEyRys1tOybtIw
And here is a photo of the Second Gentleman and Rep. Gomez: https://twitter.com/casssemyon/status/1668989942364610561?s=46&t=bOw80na_GSQRcxJ7HkMzKg
That's all for me! Let me know if you have any questions!



  