
    Mr. President, Senora Echeverria, our very distinguished guests:
As all of you know, Mrs. Nixon and I during this year, along with the Secretary of State, have traveled a great deal. We traveled halfway around the world to Peking. And then we traveled almost halfway around the world the other way to Moscow.
And on this occasion in this house, we want all of you, our guests tonight, to know that it is very good to be home in the United States and to welcome our very good and dear friends from our great neighbor to the south, the President of Mexico and his wife.
I would like to tell a little story as to how we feel about the President and his wife. This is not their first visit to this house. When he was President-elect, we had the honor of receiving them in the family dining room upstairs. And that was appropriate, because whenever the President of Mexico visits the President of the United States, we feel that they are part of our family. We are all part of the American family in this hemisphere.
But the story that I want to tell you relates to a very unfortunate experience. Just before I went to Moscow, when we entertained in this room the parliamentarians from Mexico, on that occasion the distinguished Ambassador to the United States from Mexico was held up at the gate. He was not a parliamentarian. He was not a Senator. He had no invitation.
When he told me why he was delayed, I said to him, "The Ambassador from Mexico is always welcome in this house. He needs no invitation."
And I say to the President of Mexico, to his wife and all of our friends from Mexico, you need no invitation. I will say to you, "Esta usted en su casa."
And now returning to a more serious vein, I noted this morning in my remarks welcoming the President that we expected to discuss many things, bilateral problems, hemispheric problems, and international problems. We have had very good talks and we will continue them tomorrow.
But as I talked to the President of Mexico, I thought of what kind of man he was and what I could say about him in presenting him to our guests tonight. And I thought of another man whom it would be appropriate to mention, particularly in this room, as I stand below the only portrait that hangs in this room, the portrait of Abraham Lincoln.
Lincoln was the great American President of the 19th century, and a contemporary of Lincoln was Benito Juarez. They did not know each other, but they respected each other. And each in his way kept his country together at a time that it would otherwise have been torn apart. Both became revered national heroes. And we are receiving the President of Mexico on the occasion of the 100th anniversary of the death of Benito Juarez, whose statue is just a few blocks from here in Washington, D.C.
He said many interesting and very profound things during his life. But one very simple thing he said remains in my memory. He said, "Peace is respect for the rights of others."
As I talked to the President of Mexico today, 100 years after the death of Juarez, I heard that theme expressed: Peace is respect by great nations for the rights of smaller nations. Peace is respect of the strong for the weak. Peace is respect of the rich for the poor.
Never have I heard a more eloquent expression on the part of a world statesman for the smaller nations, for the weaker nations, and the proud nations who are moving upward toward progress and prosperity, hopefully in a world of peace.
It has been my privilege in 25 years in government service, and as a private citizen, to meet and know personally over 100 heads of state and heads of government in the world. And I can say to my friends here from America, the United States of America, and to our good friends and guests from Mexico, that in your President you have a man who, because of his intelligence, his enormous energy, his humanity, and his understanding of the problems not only of his own country, but of the world, is in the first rank of the statesmen of the world that I have met in this last quarter of a century.
That would be a high compliment to any man, but in proposing my toast tonight, I propose an even higher compliment. One hundred years after the death of Benito Juarez, we are fortunate to have in the great nation to the south of us, a President who is in the great tradition of Juarez, who expounds eloquently the philosophy of Juarez, a man who has been and will be one of the great leaders not only of his own country but of this whole hemisphere.
And so to the man who proudly and justifiably today wears the mantle of Juarez, President Echeverria of Mexico, I propose that we raise our glasses.
  