
    Pool Reports by Seema Mehta, Los Angeles Times 



Sent:
Reports:




June 14, 2023 13:55 PDT

FLOTUS pool report #1 - Los Angeles
Greetings from chilly Los Angeles.
First Lady Jill Biden headlined a fundraiser for the Biden Victory Fund this afternoon.
The scene: About 80 people gathered for the afternoon fundraiser under an overcast sky in the backyard of a crisp white modern farmhouse-style mansion in Lake Hollywood. The five-bedroom home is owned by attorneys Lisa and Andrew Gilford. The iconic Hollywood sign is perched on a nearby hilltop in the background. Pots of succulents dotted cocktail tables.
I've asked the DNC for donation amounts – I'll forward if they send me. Biden spoke for 11 minutes.
Link to Otter transcript below, but here are some highlights:
She highlighted her husband's accomplishments and said President Biden was ready for the reelection campaign.
"Optimism, that's what drives my husband and nothing can slow him down," she said. "Joe is ready as he likes to say to finish the job. So as we get ready to jump back into a campaign, I cannot even believe I'm already saying this – think about how far we've come in the last 3 years."
She pointed to the administration's efforts on the pandemic, the Russian invasion of Ukraine, the debt ceiling crisi as examples of "Joe's steady leadership."
"When things look darkest and when my heart feel the sting of headlines in the news, I know that it's Joe's clear vision that I want steering us forward," Biden said.
She said her husband's leadership had led to the creation of 13 million jobs, a manufacturing boom, the bipartisan infrastructure law, lower drug prices and the passage of the first major gun-control legislation in decades.
"We've accomplished so much and I hope you're proud of Joe, because his wins are really your wins," she said. "We know what's in store if these MAGA Republicans win because we've all lived through this."
"Take yourself back in your mind. You remember how U.S. policy was dictated in those late-night tweets. Or how about the constant assault on our most sacred institutions, our democracy and our freedoms, and it's only going to get worse."
"So that's the choice right now – chaos and corruption, hatred and division. On the one hand, you can choose that, or you can choose strong, steady leadership," Bidne said. "We cannot go back to those dark days and we won't with your help." [She didn't mention Trump by name or his indictment last week or arraignment yesterday.]
Otter link to full transcript/recording: https://otter.ai/u/42zP5SCFl7THhZCkrCOE7U8URPg?utm_source=copy_url
Please reach out with any questions.



  