
    Pool Reports by Nancy Cook, POLITICO



Sent:
Reports:




June 18, 202010:08

WH print pool #1 
Good morning from the White House. I'll be your print pooler today.
The pool was just tested for Covid-19, with temperature checks on the way into the complex.
The only public event on the president's schedule is a 3 p.m. roundtable with governors on the reopening of America's small businesses.



June 18, 202012:09

WH print pool #2 -- Navarro gaggle 
The pool just did a gaggle with Peter Navarro following one of TV hits. The roughly nine-minute gaggle was all about the Bolton book and POTUS's interactions with Chinese President Xi, as laid out in the book.
A few highlights and full audio attached above.
Navarro said the anecdote in the Bolton book about Trump asking for Xi to buy American agriculture products ahead of the election to help him win farm states was not true. Same for the anecdote about Trump speaking approvingly about Chinese-run concentration camps for Uighurs – Navarro said not true.
When asked for his response to John Bolton's book:
“My take on him is Big Lie Bolton, it's Book Deal Bolton, he is doing it for the money, that is pretty clear, and my view is it the Washington's swamps equivalent of revenge porn. He got fired because he did not obey the chain of command, because his views were totally out of sync with President Donald J. Trump with respect to how to handle international affairs, and he's basically breaking all manner of tradition in terms of issuing a book at this stage, and he will make a bunch of money. Here's the point, folks: He talks about the pattern of behavior with the president. Well, the pattern of behavior of John Book Deal Bolton is to go into an administration, advance his own agenda, and when he gets fired from that administration or leaves like he did in the Bush administration, he leaves and then criticizes the people he left behind who gave him the job. He did that with the Bush administration after he helped get the Bush administration into the Iraq War by pushing the big lie that Iraqhad weapons of mass destruction. That's the pattern.”



June 18, 202012:31

WH pool #3 
?Lunch lid until 1:30 p.m.



June 18, 202013:35

WH pool #4 
Your pooler has been told that the WH press shop does plan to send out a statement on the DACA decision today, for anyone curious.



June 18, 202014:46

WH print pool #5 
At 2:45 p.m., the pool is gathering for the president's 3 p.m. event.



June 18, 202016:15

WH print pool #6 
From the press office about this afternoon's event —
Today, President Donald J. Trump will participate in a roundtable discussion with Governors and small business owners on the reopening of America's small businesses.
America's small businesses are the backbone of our Nation and as we continue Opening Up America Again, millions of small businesses are at the forefront of our great comeback. President Trump has taken unprecedented actions to ensure America's small businesses have the support they need. Working with Congress, President Trump signed the historic Paycheck Protection Plan (PPP) and the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES) Act, giving trillions of dollars of critical aid to countless small businesses and millions of hardworking Americans.
Our Nation is driven by the pioneering spirit and determination of our small business community and President Trump is committed to supporting the undaunted conviction of American small businesses, whose hard work and perseverance bolster our economy and communities. The President continues to work in a bipartisan way with our Nation's governors to keep the American people healthy and prosperous.
The following individuals are expected to attend:
The White HousePresident Donald J. TrumpLarry Kudlow, Assistant to the President & Director, National Economic CouncilKristan Nevins, Assistant to the President & Cabinet SecretaryKayleigh McEnany, Assistant to the President & Press SecretaryBrooke Rollins, Assistant to the President & Acting Director, Domestic Policy CouncilDoug Hoelscher, Deputy Assistant to the President & Director, Office of Intergovernmental AffairsNic Pottebaum, Special Assistant to President & Deputy Director, Office of Intergovernmental AffairsTim Pataki, Deputy Assistant to the President & Director, Office of Public LiaisonJoe Russo, Special Assistant to President & Director Business Outreach, Office of Public Liaison
Trump AdministrationSecretary Steven Mnuchin, Department of the TreasuryAdministrator Jovita Carranza, Small Business Administration
External ParticipantsGovernor Pete Ricketts (R-NE)Governor Kevin Stitt (R-OK)Tony Goins, Director, Nebraska Department of Economic DevelopmentPete Patel, President & Chief Executive Officer, Promise HotelsMelissa Hegarty, Co-Owner, Nothing Bundt Cakes, NebraskaLori Burson, Owner, Stella Modern Italian Cuisine



June 18, 202016:34

WH pool #7 
Pool entered the State Dining Room at 3:31 pm. POTUS is sitting around a horseshoe shaped table in between two governors and is giving some prepared remarks.
The event is being carried live on whitehouse.gov.



June 18, 202016:45

WH print pool #8– Oklahoma governor 
Gov of Oklahoma said the state is ready for POTUS's visit on Saturday, where POTUS will hold his first rally in months. Said they have seen a decline in hospitalizations.



June 18, 202016:04

WH print pool # 9 — color from event 
Around 3:53pm, POTUS took out a phone and appeared to be scrolling through it on-and-off again as two female guests told personal stories about how PP loans had helped their small businesses. At 3:56pm, he tucked the phone back into his suit jacket pocket and leaned in the direction of the Oklahoma restauranteur as she finished her story.
Behind the table is a blue sign on an easel that reads: “Opening Up America Again.”
POTUS also appeared to pass a note at one point under the table to the Nebraska governor as another small business owner spoke.
None of the guests or WH aides present wore masks.
Pool ushered out at 4:03pm with no questions taken.



June 18, 202016:12

WH print pool #10 
ICYMI, this is what Trump Tweeted out during that event just now in the State Dining room about small businesses and reopening the economy --
“It was not Ambassador Lighthizer's fault (yesterday in Committee) in that perhaps I didn't make myself clear, but the U.S. certainly does maintain a policy option, under various conditions, of a complete decoupling from China. Thank you!”



June 18, 202017:31

WH print pool #11 
At 5:29, we have a travel/photo lid. Thank you – enjoy your evenings!




  