
    Pool Reports by Lalit K Jha, Press Trust of India 



Sent:
Reports:




June 21, 2023 16:24

FLOTUS POOL # 1
Hi,
your pooler is loaded into the van. now headed to the National Science Foundation headquarters. Please find below the background information:
REPORTABLE BACKGROUND FROM THE OFFICE OF THE FIRST LADY:
On Wednesday, June 21st, as part of the Official State Visit to the United States, the First Lady and Prime Minister Narendra Modi of the Republic of India will visit the National Science Foundation in Alexandria, Virginia to highlight the U.S. and India's shared priorities around education and workforce. The First Lady will highlight career-connected learning and workforce training programs and partnerships between high schools, community colleges, and universities with employers.
During the visit, the First Lady and the Prime Minister will meet students from the U.S. and India who are learning skills to succeed in industries vital to our economies.

First Tour Stop - Semiconductor Manufacturing: The First Lady and the Prime Minister will meet Noah Isirimah, an American high school student, who will demonstrate how he uses a wiggle bot (a robot that creates abstract art on paper) to learn about semiconductor manufacturing. 
Second Tour Stop - Aquatic Technology: The First Lady and the Prime Minister will meet Kaustubh Joshi, an Indian PhD student currently studying in the United States, who will demonstrate how an underwater robot can be used to aid fishing and how this technology could be utilized in the workforce. 

The First Lady and the Prime Minister will be joined on the tour stops by:

Sethuraman Panchanathan, Director, National Science Foundation 
Eric Garcetti, U.S. Ambassador to the Republic of India 
Taranjit Singh Sandhu, Ambassador of the Republic of India to the United States 

Following the tour, the First Lady and the Prime Minister will participate in a moderated conversation about the U.S. and India's shared priorities in education and promoting a skilled workforce.
The First Lady and Prime Minister will be joined by:

Sethuraman Panchanathan, Director, National Science Foundation 
Sanjay Mehrotra, Chief Executive Officer, Micron Technologies, Inc. 
Dr. Jermaine Williams, President, Montgomery College 
Anchal Sharma, Student and PhD Candidate, IIT-Delhi 
Williams Ochoa, Student, Montgomery College 

Education and Technology in the U.S. and India: A Shared Priority
The United States and India share a bond forged in education. As of last year, there were over 200,000 Indian students studying in the United States, contributing to American innovation. Promoting the development of education and workforce training programs are essential to the Initiative on Critical and Emerging Technology (iCET), which President Biden and Prime Minister Modi announced last year.
Biden-Harris Administration Recently Announced Strategies to Train and Connect American Workers to Jobs Created by the President's Investing in America Agenda
In May 2023, the Biden-Harris Administration announced new efforts to ensure all Americans can access the good jobs created by the President's Investing in America agenda, including the American Rescue Plan, the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, the CHIPS and Science Act, and the Inflation Reduction Act, by expanding access to job training opportunities.
Today's event will highlight pathways to jobs in two critical Investing in America sectors:
Biotechnology and Biomanufacturing
As part of the President's Investing in America agenda, President Biden signed an Executive Order to ensure the United States is harnessing the full potential of biotechnology and biomanufacturing sectors to create good-paying jobs at home, build stronger supply chains, and deliver results for the American people. Many of the skills and occupations across biomanufacturing do not require a bachelor's degree – including biomedical technicians and operations technicians. The Administration is working with employers and unions to expand pre-apprenticeships, Registered Apprenticeships, and career and technical education (CTE) programs at the secondary and postsecondary level for biomanufacturing occupations.
Semiconductors 
The CHIPS and Science Act will boost American semiconductor research, development, and production, ensuring U.S. leadership in the technology that forms the foundation of everything from automobiles to household appliances to defense systems. America invented the semiconductor, but today produces about 10 percent of the world's supply—and none of the most advanced chips. The CHIPS and Science Act will unlock hundreds of billions more in private sector semiconductor investment across the country, including production essential to national defense and critical sectors.
As First Lady, Dr. Biden has traveled to over 40 states and more than 100 cities serving as a leading messenger for the Biden-Harris Administration's most urgent priorities, including the President's Investing in America Agenda. The First Lady has been an advocate for community colleges, career-connected learning programs, and pathways to good-paying jobs across the country. Most recently: 

May 2023 – Washington, D.C.: The First Lady helped kick off the U.S. Department of Labor's "ETA Vision 2030: Investing in America's Workforce," a three-day meeting of the department's Employment and Training Administration and its partners in the nation's workforce system. The First Lady highlighted the Biden-Harris Administration's announcement on new efforts to ensure all Americans can access the good jobs created by the President's Investing in America agenda, including the American Rescue Plan, the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, the CHIPS and Science Act, and the Inflation Reduction Act, by expanding access to job training opportunities. 
April 2023  – Colorado, Maine, and Vermont: During the Biden-Harris Administration's Investing in America Tour, the First Lady traveled toDenver, Colorado; South Portland, Maine; and Burlington, Vermontwhere Dr. Biden highlighted how career-connected learning and workforce training programs are central to the Biden education pathway, and the importance of investing in these programs that are preparing high school and community college students for good-paying jobs created by the President's Investing in America agenda. 
March 2023 – Ivy Tech Community College in Valparaiso, IN: The First Lady, U.S. Deputy Secretary of Labor and nominee for U.S. Secretary of Labor Julie Su, and U.S. Deputy Secretary of Energy David Turk joined Mayor Matt Murphy to visit Ivy Tech Community College in Valparaiso, Indiana to highlight the Biden Administration's commitment to strengthening our economy and building affordable pathways to good-paying jobs through career-connected learning. 
February 2023 –Mesa Community College in Mesa, AZ: The First Lady joined U.S. Secretary of Education Miguel Cardona and Mayor John Giles to visit Mesa Community College in Mesa, AZ to highlight how affordable community college programs like Mesa College Promise are providing students with career-connected learning opportunities that lead to good-paying jobs.




June 21, 2023 16:27

FLOTUS POOL # 2
At 2: 23 pm , the pool is rolling out now for NFS, Alexandria, Virginia.


June 21, 2023 16:32

FLOTUS POOL # 3
The event at NSF concluded at 3:46 pm. Now headed back to WH for the FLOTUS dinner preview.
Th NSF was a bit delayed as PM Modi arrived a bit late. While waiting for the PM, FLOTUS, US Ambassador to India, Eric Garcetti and NSF Director Dr S Panchanathan interacted with the two students (as mentioned in the backgrounder sent earlier: Noah Isirimah, an American high school student, who demonstrate how he uses a wiggle bot a robot that creates abstract art on paper) to learn about semiconductor manufacturing. FLOTUS and Amb asked questions about AI.
The second tour stop was Kaustubh Joshi, an Indian PhD student currently studying in the United States. He demonstrate how an underwater robot can be used to aid fishing and how this technology could be utilized in the workforce. FLOTUS asked where he was in India from.Kaustabh said Mumbai. FLOTUS said she has been there.
Thereafter FLOTUS, Amb Garcetti were seen chatting while waiting for PM Modi. India's Ambassador to the US Taranjit Singh Sandhu was the first to arrive. HE apologized for the delay. FLOTUS said its ok.
Soon PM Modi arrived. They posed for a group picture along with the students. And they headed to the conference room for moderated conversation,
More to come.
Pooler has now reached the WH for the second event. Dinner preview.


June 21, 2023 16:52

FLOTUS POOL #4: Dinner Preview
Hi,
Please see the details below 
 REPORTABLE BACKGROUND?FROM THE OFFICE OF THE FIRST LADY:
On Wednesday, June 21st, First Lady Jill Biden will host a media preview in advance of Thursday's State Dinner as part of Prime Minister Narendra Modi of the Republic of India's Official Visit to the United States.
The media preview will include brief remarks from the First Lady, White House Social Secretary Carlos Elizondo, and guest Chef Nina Curtis. Following remarks, Chef Curtis, White House Executive Chef Cris Comerford, and White House Executive Pastry Chef Susie Morrison will present dishes from the menu. The First Lady will be joined by Coordinator for Strategic Communications at the National Security Council John Kirby.
State?Dinner?Menu First Lady Jill Biden worked with guest Chef Nina Curtis, White House Executive Chef?Cris?Comerford, and White House Executive Pastry Chef Susie Morrison to develop the menu for the State Dinner.
Chef Nina CurtisChef Nina Curtis is a culinary artist based in Sacramento, CA who is celebrated for her exceptional skill and creativity in plant-based cuisine. Chef Curtis' passion for plant-based cuisine spans over two decades serving in pivotal roles, including Director of Culinary and Executive Chef positions. Chef Curtis is known for seasonal and garden-to-table recipes and mentoring up-and-coming chefs to help others create plant-based culinary experiences around the world. An MBA graduate of Pepperdine University, Chef Curtis was also trained at Living Light Culinary Institute, Trinity School of Natural Health, and the Natural Gourmet Culinary Institute. 
First CourseMarinated Millet and Grilled Corn Kernel SaladCompressed WatermelonTangy Avocado Sauce
Main CourseStuffed Portobello MushroomsCreamy Saffron-infused Risotto
Upon requestSumac-roasted Sea BassLemon-Dill Yogurt SauceCrisped Millet CakesSummer Squashes
Dessert?? Rose and Cardamom-infused Strawberry Shortcake
Wines Stone Tower Chardonnay "Kristi" 2021PATEL Red Blend 2019Domain Carneros Brut Rosé
American and Indian Décor Elements The First Lady and Social Secretary Carlos Elizondo worked with David Stark Design and Production, a design firm that assisted with the design and guest experience for the dinner.?The décor features elements that honor the tradition and cultures of America and India, including:

India State Flag: The India State Dinner will take place in a pavilion on the South Lawn draped in greens and saffron, honoring the colors of the Indian flag and the strength and heritage they represent.
Peacock and Bald Eagle: Imagery of India's national bird, the peacock, and America's national bird, the bald eagle, will serve as the backdrop to President Biden and Prime Minister Modi's toasts for the evening.
Lotus Blooms: A longstanding feature in Indian design throughout history and inspired by mandala-style illustrations found in traditional Indian art, the lotus flower is incorporated throughout the decor and tablescapes.
Symbolic Views of Washington: Through the translucent pavilion structure, guests will be surrounded by views of the iconic symbols of our nation, of our democracy and our history: the White House, the Jefferson Memorial, the Washington Monument.

Entertainment?  Following the dinner, guest will enjoy musical selections from the following performers:
Joshua Bell American Violinist and Conductor
Joshua Bell is a GRAMMY Award-winning violinist, soloist, recitalist, chamber musician and conductor, and currently the Music Director of the Academy of St. Martin in the Fields. Bell's highlights in the 2023-24 season include an international tour of his newly-commissioned project, The Elements, featuring works by renowned living composers. Additionally, he will appear as an artist-in-residence this season with the NDR Elbphilharmonie, and as guest artist with the New Jersey Symphony, National Symphony Orchestra, Atlanta Symphony, Chamber Orchestra of Europe, Philadelphia Orchestra, and more. Bell has been nominated for six GRAMMY® awards, was named "Instrumentalist of the Year" by Musical America, deemed a "Young Global Leader" by the World Economic Forum, and received the Avery Fisher Prize for outstanding achievement in classical music.
Penn Masala  South Asian A Cappella Group 
Penn Masala is a South Asian A Cappella Group founded by students at the University of Pennsylvania. They are known for original compositions and harmonies that traverse traditions and capture the experience of growing up with both Eastern and Western cultures. Penn Masala has performed around the world, including at the Indian International Film Academy (IIFA) Awards, and in the Hollywood feature film and soundtrack for Pitch Perfect 2, which received an American Music Award for Best Soundtrack in 2015.
"The President's Own" United States Marine Band Chamber Orchestra For more than two centuries, the United States Marine Band has been part of the events that have shaped the Nation. Established by an Act of Congress in 1798, the Marine Band is America's oldest continuously active professional music organization and made its White House debut on New Year's Day 1801. Its primary mission is unique — to provide music for the President of the United States and the Commandant of the Marine Corps. In its third century, the Marine Band continues a tradition of excellence that earned it the title, "The President's Own.


June 21, 2023 18:27

FLOTUS POOL #5
From the NSF event
Welcoming PM Modi to the US, FLOTUS said: "With this official visit, we are bringing together the world's oldest and world's largest democracies. But our relationship isn't just about governments. We're celebrating the families and friendships that span the globe, those who feel the bonds of both of our countries. After years of strengthening ties, the US India partnership is deep and expansive as we jointly tackle global challenges.
Mr. Prime Minister, I know that education is an issue close to your heart as it is to mine. You work to ensure that all Indians, especially girls, which I love, have the opportunity to pursue an education and gain the skills they need for our modern workforce.
It's so important, it's exciting to be able to show you some of the innovative programs our schools and businesses are creating for students here.
FLOTUS thanked the National Science Foundation for hosting them. "There are students in this room who are discovering the inner workings of semiconductors starting in middle and high school or training for other cutting edge jobs. And as established businesses are transformed by new technology as industries that didn't exist a decade ago are created this kind of training is more important to our future than ever.
"If we want our economies to be strong, we need to invest in young people who are our future. We need to ensure that they have the opportunities that they deserve," FLOTUS said.
NSF Director PM Modi in his remarks described him as leader of the world's largest democracy. "As of this year, the world's most populous country. Promoting education opportunities and expanding India's technology sector have been key pillars of Prime Minister Modi's vision for the country.
PM Modi in his remarks said that he is very happy that he has been able to interact with the young creative minds on his arrival in Washington DC. India is working on several projects working with National Science Foundation.
PM Modi explained in details the skilling mission of the Government of India and said that for the bright future of Youngs it is important to have education, skill, and innovation. And India has worked in this direction. National Education Policy, education and skilling has been integrated. Under Skilling Mission, more than 50 million people have been trained. And another 15 million are being given training on latest and emerging technologies like for AI and blockchains.
PM Modi said his goal is to have this decade as tech decade. To continue with this momentum of growth, India and the US it is important to ensure pipeline of talent. US has world's top educational institutions, advance technology, while India has the world's biggest youth factory. As such, I am confident that the partnership of India and the US would help towards sustainable and inclusive global growth. The PM also praised the role of community college in the US.
Also spoke on the occasion:Sethuraman Panchanathan, Director, National Science Foundation+Sanjay Mehrotra, Chief Executive Officer, Micron Technologies, Inc.Dr. Jermaine Williams, President, Montgomery CollegeAnchal Sharma, Student and PhD Candidate, IIT-Delhi


June 21, 2023 18:42

FLOTUS POOL #6: Dinner Preview
State Dinner Preview:
FLOTUS in her remarks said: "With this official state visit, we are bringing together the world's oldest and the world's largest democracies. After years of strengthening ties, the US India partnership is deep and expansive as we jointly tackle global challenges.
"But our relationship isn't only about the government. We're celebrating the families and friendships that span the globe, those who feel the bonds of home, both in both of our countries."
"As some of you may know, Prime Minister Modi is a vegetarian. So we asked Chef Nina Curtis, a plant-based pioneer to work with our White House chefs and create a stunning vegetarian menu."
FLOTUS said guests will have the option to add fish to the main course as well, if they choose.
"Tomorrow night, guests will walk across the south lawn into a pavilion draped in rich greens with saffron colored flowers at every table, the colors of the Indian flag. And on the transparent sides, those colors and the strength of the heritage they represent- frame the iconic scenery and symbols of our nation, our democracy and our history: the White House and the Washington Monument inside each table arrangement is warm and unique.
POTUS hoped guests feel as if someone has set that table just for them because we have.
"After dinner, we'll have the opportunity to hear one of our nation's incredible sound's. Grammy Award winner Joshua Bell. His performance will be followed by Penn Masala, a South Asian acapella group from the University of Pennsylvania, who are bringing a little piece of my hometown to the White House, along with songs inspired by the sounds of India.
After the last place are cleared with new connections poached and old ones strengthened, guests will end their evening walking across a moonlit lodge. There they will be greeted by hundreds of glowing lanterns, guiding them home, illuminating their pathway with all the warmth and love and laughter that we hope they take away from our time together.
Then there was a surprise from FLOTUS: "Normally the press comes and you look at the beautiful plates of food that the chefs have prepared and get almost close enough to taste it, but you don't get to try it. So today I've asked our chefs to prepare a few small bites of tomorrow's menu."
Full remarks of FLOTUS
Remarks as Prepared for Delivery by First Lady Jill Biden at a Media Preview for the State Dinner of the Republic of India | The White House
Remarks as Prepared for Delivery by Social Secretary Carlos Elizondo Previewing the India State Dinner
State Dining Room, the White House
***Thank you, Dr. Biden. And thank you all for joining us today.
It's hard to make an event of this scale feel intimate. But that's what Dr. Biden has endeavored to do for this State Dinner. She has been involved in this event at every step of the way. And every element of the dinner and décor has been chosen to make each guest's experience personal and warm.
The inspiration for our design really began with the peacock, India's national bird. From the invitations to the programs to the pavilion, we wanted to evoke that breathtaking feeling when it extends its tail, unveiling its colorful beauty, majesty, and strength.
Green draping will flow from the ceiling, giving way to tables cloaked in the saturated blues and greens of Indian silks, falling onto a carpet of navy blue. The hues, not only a nod to our guests, but also to our host, as blue and green are also two of Dr. Biden's favorite colors.
Each table will feature an arrangement of blooms in vases large and small. It will feel as if someone has gone to their garden and cut flowers just for this event, filling each unique table scape with special love and care. And, the color of the flowers mirrors the saffron of India's flag, and the heritage it represents.
As leaders have done at State Dinners for decades, the President and the Prime Minister will give their toasts from an eagle lectern. For this dinner, embossed on the rich forest green backdrop behind them, we've replicated that iconic eagle and a peacock in the same style, framing the leaders with their national birds. And in the peacock's talons, stalks of millets, a nod to India's successful campaign to declare 2023 the International Year of Millets. And around them, lotus flowers—important symbols in India. Their gleaming petals reminding us, that each day, our nations bloom stronger and more radiant, together. And throughout the space, you will see more images of lotuses, their design inspired by the mandala illustrations found in traditional Indian art.
The design also reflects Dr. Biden's love of candles—their timeless elegance and their approachable warmth. Guests will be guided to the pavilion by their flickering light, just visible in the fading sunlight. And the dinner itself will be lit with sparkling candlelight.
I would like to thank David Stark, and his entire team at David Stark Design and Production, who have just been amazing to work with. Thank you for bringing your talent, thoughtfulness, and innovation to this project. Finally, I also want to thank the many teams—especially my team, Team Social, and the Office of the Chief of Protocol—who have worked tirelessly to make this Official State Visit memorable.
As Dr. Biden mentioned, she chose her menu as a nod to the Prime Minister. The dishes will mirror the décor, infusing the cuisine with Indian flavors and culture, like millets and saffron. Chef Curtis then worked with Dr. Biden and White House chefs to create the delicious cuisine for the evening.
So now, it's my pleasure to introduce Chef Nina Curtis.
***
CHEF NINA CURTIS:: "This is definitely a pinnacle moment in my career. It is truly a pleasure to be able to work with the First Lady and help her to bring her culinary vision to life ……we have curated a menu that really showcases the best in American cuisine and also then seasoned with Indian elements and flavors.Chef Curtis said: We're also very excited that India is leading efforts to celebrate the international year of the millets. And we've incorporated marinated millets into our menu and the Indian cuisine elements throughout the menu.



  