
    NOMINATIONS SENT TO THE SENATE:
Mimi E. Alemayehou, Executive Vice President of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the African Development Foundation for a term expiring September 22, 2015, vice Lloyd O. Pierson, term expired.
Edward W. Brehm, of Minnesota, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the African Development Foundation for a term expiring September 22, 2011, vice Claude A. Allen, term expired.
Johnnie Carson, an Assistant Secretary of State (African Affairs), to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the African Development Foundation for a term expiring September 27, 2015, vice Jendayi Elizabeth Frazer, term expired.
James Frederick Entwistle, of Virginia, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Democratic Republic of the Congo.
Mark Lloyd Ericks, of Washington, to be United States Marshal for the Western District of Washington for the term of four years, vice William Joseph Hawe.
Joseph Patrick Faughnan, Sr., of Connecticut, to be United States Marshal for the District of Connecticut for the term of four years, vice John Francis Bardelli, resigned.
Harold Michael Oglesby, of Arkansas, to be United States Marshal for the Western District of Arkansas for the term of four years, vice Richard James O'Connell, term expired.
Donald Martin O'Keefe, of California, to be United States Marshal for the Northern District of California for the term of four years, vice Federico Lawrence Rocha, term expired.
Robert E. O'Neill, of Florida, to be United States Attorney for the Middle District of Florida for the term of four years, vice A. Brian Albritton.
Kenneth James Runde, of Iowa, to be United States Marshal for the Northern District of Iowa for the term of four years, vice Timothy Anthony Junker, term expired.
Charles Thomas Weeks II, of Oklahoma, to be United States Marshal for the Western District of Oklahoma for the term of four years, vice Michael Wade Roach, term expired.
  