
    Pool Reports by Courtney Subramanian, USA Today



Sent:
Reports:




June 23, 202007:58

In-town pool report #1 - Good morning 
Greetings from a sunny morning at the White House.
As noted yesterday, the White House is no longer performing temperature checks at the entrance, but your pooler did have her temperature taken and received a COVID-19 nasal swab test in lower press.
The president is scheduled to depart the White House for Arizona at 9:00 a.m. I will update you on any changes to the schedule. As always, feel free to reach out with any questions.



June 23, 202008:59

In-town pool report #2 - Gathering for departure 
The in-town restricted pool has been brought to the South Lawn to gather for the president's departure.



June 23, 202009:39

In-town pool report #3 - Departure 
POTUS emerged from the South Portico at 9:23 a.m. and walked over to take questions for 7 minutes on his trip to Arizona, protests in DC and last night's attempt to remove the Andrew Jackson statue, coronavirus testing and the Tulsa rally.
He thanked law enforcement for its response last night in saving a “great monument.”
Said there would be an executive order “very soon” with regards to monument destruction. “We are looking at long term jail sentences” for “anarchists.”
Said federal government is willing to hep cities dealing with protests.“We are ready able and willing to help as we did in Minnesota.”
On testing:“I don't kid.”“We have got the greatest testing”“By having more tests we have more cases.”Says US has conducted more than 25 million tests“We did 25 million tests therefore the tests are gonna have more cases”
“Because of all the cases that we find we have a very low mortality rate.” -
Says Other countries do very little testing
“We are doing a great job”“We're doing the best testing job anywhere in the world ““We're doing the best ventilator job a yahrw in the world”
Said “the Tulsa rally was incredible” - the crowd was wonderful he called the crowd “warriors”
Pool could barely hear over the engines but will send fuller quotes from TV feed. Please check quotes against transcript.
He was joined by Stephen Miller, Mark Meadows, Kayleigh McEnany and Jared Kushner.
The weather in Washington is a sunny 77 degrees and rising.
Marine One was wheels up for JBA at 9:34 a.m.



June 23, 202010:27

In-town pool report #4 - Fuller quotes from departure 
Thanks to the TV folks for the feed. See fuller quotes below.
On Arizona...
"We're going to be making a speech to young people in Arizona and we'll be meeting with some of the Arizona officials and talk about their border and how strong it's become. It's become very strong."
On monuments...
"Last night we stopped an attack on a great monument, the monument of Andrew Jackson in Lafayette Park. And I just want to thank law enforcement. They did a great job. We were working very closely with the White House Secret Service and some of our executives."
"They did a great job. Numerous people are in jail and going to jail today. People are already there, but we're looking at long term sentences under the Act - we have a very specific monuments act.
"We are looking at long term jail sentences for these vandals and these hoodlums and these anarchists and agitators. Call them whatever you want. Some people don't like that language, but that's what they are. They're bad people. They don't love our country. And they're not taking down our monuments. I just want to make that clear."
On executive order over monuments...
"I will have an executive order very shortly. And all it's really going to do is reinforce what already there, but in a more uniform way."
"I want to also say this: That the state governments - you see them all over, Seattle - they're very weak. And in Minnesota. They might need help or they need help. The federal government is willing to help them. If these hoodlums come around - these are not protesters by the way these are anarchists and other things. If these hoodlums come around and if the states can't handle it, we are ready, willing and able to help as we did in Minnesota where we stopped - after four days they finally called, and we did a great job with the National Guard."
On Tulsa rally...
"As you've probably heard, Fox has the highest ratings on a Saturday night in the history of Fox. So that's the ultimate poll, I guess. But the ratings on Saturday night for Fox were the highest ratings in the history of Fox News, which is I guess, a long history."
"We actually had a nice crowd had, despite all of the warnings and everything else the networks were trying to do. Despite the fact we had some pretty bad people waiting there - waiting. They shouldn't have been. Maybe some of the same people I just talked about. We had a nice crowd. But we have the highest rating in the history of Fox on Saturday night. And online. I heard the record was unbelievable. The numbers were unbelievable. I think you probably know that."
"The Tulsa rallies, despite all of the horrible, ominous warnings that you people put out over a period of two weeks, the crowd was wonderful. It was a great - they were warriors. It was a great crowd. But many of them stayed home and watch television and what happened is Fox, on Saturday night, had the biggest rating in the history of Fox Television."
On whether he was kidding about asking admin to slow down testing...
"I don't kid. Let me just tell you, let me make it clear. We have got the greatest testing program anywhere in the world. We test better than anybody in the world. Our tests are the best in the world. And we have the most of them."
"By having more tests. We find more cases. We did 25 plus, 25 million tests. Think of that, 25 million. If you look at other countries they did 1 million 2 million, 3 million. Big countries, we did 25 million, way more by double, triple, quadruple any other country. Therefore, with tests, we're going to have more cases. By having more cases, it sounds bad. But actually what it is, is we're finding people, many of those people aren't sick or very little - maybe young people."
"But what's happened is because of all of the cases that we find, we have a very low mortality rate, just about the best in the world. So that's the advantage to the testing, along with other things, but just remember this: the reason we have more cases than other countries is because our testing is so much. Other countries do very little testing."
"Testing is a double-edged sword. In one way, it tells you you have cases, in another way you find out where the cases are - you do a good job. We are doing a great job we have never been credited for it. We're doing the best testing job anywhere in the world. We're doing the best ventilator job anywhere in the world. We're now supplying ventilators to the entire world. Nobody else has done that... Countries don't have ventilators. They call the United States. We've done a great job we have not been given credit for it."



June 24, 202000:44

In-town pool report #5 - White House return 
Marine One was wheels down on the South Lawn at 12:40 a.m.
POTUS disembarked and waved to press before entering the residence at 12:43 a.m. He did not stop for questions.



June 24, 202000:48

In-town pool report #6 - Travel/photo lid 
A travel/photo lid was called at 12:45 a.m. Have a good night.




 
Pool Reports below by Anne Gearan, The Washington Post



Sent:
Reports:




June 23, 202009:50

White House travel pool report 1/ JBA departure 
Greetings from JBA where Marine One landed at 9:42.
President Trump disembarked at 9:47.
He waved and gave thumbs up to pool and did not stop for questions.
Spotted: Stephen Miller; Jared Kushner; Kayleigh McEnany; Mark Meadows; Sarah Matthews;
We are on the big plane- first stop Yuma AZ.
Your pool gathered at JBA at 8, following Abbott rapid Covid-19 tests administered at the White House.



June 23, 202012:59

White House travel pool report 2/ Yuma AZ arrival/ plane briefing 
AF1 landed at Marine Corps Air Station Yuma at 10:57 am MST. We are +3 from D.C.
The president came back for about seven minutes of OTR discussion.
White House press secretary Kayleigh McEnany andCBP commissioner Mark Morgan briefed for a short time on the record.Some quotes:
Q: Critics are saying only a few miles are actually places where no barrier existed before.
A: “I keep getting asked that question again and again,” Morgan said.
“Here's what the fact is: All 220 miles of wall system are brand new miles of wall system. And I say wall system on purpose because the wall system is much more than a bunch of steel in the ground. It actually provides an enhanced capability that did not exist before. It's got integrated technology, lighting, access roads — all the accessories the go with the actual steel.” He said those are the most important things border patrol agents “on the front lines have asked for and this president has delivered. So my response is 220 miles are brand new.”
Q: So why do critics keep saying that?
A: “That's just a false political narrative. From an operational, law enforcement perspective those are new miles of wall system that are going in the ground. All 220.”
Kayleigh McEnany was asked about Trump's view of covid testing and how more tests mean more reported cases, and about his remarks Saturday on stopping tests.“He was making a serious point but he was using sarcasm to do that,” she said.
On the executive order protecting monuments and statues:
“The president did mention an executive order. I don't want to get ahead of him on any further announcements,” McEnany said.
She and Sarah Matthews also confirmed that deputy White House press secretary Hogan Gidley will become the campaign national press secretary.
The flight was otherwise uneventful.
A hearty breakfast of chicken and waffles and Fox News on for the duration, including extensive coverage of the House hearing on covid-19 with Dr. Fauci.
We will be rolling shortly for U.S. Border Patrol Station Yuma, the site of the border security roundtable.
According to the White House live streaming schedule, the roundtable event will be available here:
https://youtu.be/uhsIzrZL6oA
I will send key quotes and color, etc.
Neither the president nor White House staff and Secret Service personnel are wearing face masks so far as we have seen.
Thanks to co-pooler Alex Leary of WSJ for help transcribing.



June 23, 202013:14

White House travel pool report 2a - AF1 travelers 
Via Sarah Matthews here are names of travelers with the president today
Acting Secretary Chad WolfMark MeadowsSenator Martha McSallyRepresentative Debbie LeskoDan ScavinoJared KushnerStephen MillerBrooke RollinsJohn McEnteeKayleigh McEnanyDirector James CarrollActing Commissioner Mark Morgan



June 23, 202013:20

White House travel pool report 3/ rolling to border event 
The president deplaned at 11:16 accompanied by McSally and Lesko.
Other staff followed.
At 11:20 we are rolling.



June 23, 202013:23

White House travel pool report 3a/ greeters 
Per the White House, the president was met on the Yuma tarmac by:
Col David SuggsCommanding Officer of Marine Corps Air Station Yuma (NYL)
LtCol Henry HortenstineOperations Officer of Marine Corps Air Station Yuma (NYL) 
LtCol James PaxtonCommanding Officer of Headquarters and Headquarters Squadron of Marine Corps Air Station Yuma (NYL)
SgtMaj David LeikwoldSergeant Major of Marine Corps Air Station Yuma (NYL)



June 23, 202013:32

White House travel pool report 4/ border security roundtable 
Motorcade arrived at the Border Patrol station after a roughly 8 minute drive.
Pool saw scattered groups of supporters along the route, including one holding a hand-lettered sign, “Thank You President Trump” and saw no protesters.
Event is streamed, and I will pass on a few key quotes.
“Billie Jean” is playing on the sound system in the room where Trump will speak.
Judd Deere passes along this background on the event:
Today, President Donald J. Trump will visit the United States Border Patrol Sector in Yuma, Arizona to participate in a roundtable briefing on border security and commemorate the 200th
Mile of the New Border Wall Site.
The following individuals are expected to attend:
The White HousePresident Donald J. TrumpMark Meadows, Assistant to the President and Chief of StaffJared Kushner, Assistant to the President and Senior AdvisorStephen Miller, Assistant to the President and Senior Advisor for Policy
Trump AdministrationChad Wolf, Acting Secretary of the Department of Homeland Security
Members of CongressMartha McSally, United States Senator from ArizonaDebbie Lesko, United States Representative from Arizona's 8th Congressional District
External ParticipantsDoug Ducey, Governor of ArizonaDoug Nicholls, Mayor of the City of YumaSusan Smith, Chief of Police of Yuma Police DepartmentJames Carroll, Director of National Drug Control PolicyMark Morgan, Acting Commissioner of the United States Customs and Border ProtectionLTG Todd Semonite, Chief of Engineers of the United States Army and Commanding General of the United States Army Corps of EngineersCarl Landrum, United States Border Patrol, Yuma Sector Acting Chief Patrol AgentBrandon Judd, President of National Border Patrol Council



June 23, 202013:54

White House travel pool report 5/ Border security roundtable in progress 
Event is ongoing.
Presidential topics have ranged considerably beyond border security, including sanctuary cities, what he called weak local and state governments and the removal of monuments by “agitators.”
“We've taken a very strong stance and it won't be happening federally because they will be paying a very big price.”
A few highlights, and as always check against broadcast and transcript. Thanks again to co-pooler Alex Leary of WSJ:
Started at 11:33 a.m. local time.
POTUS said he was given a "beautiful" picture of the wall - before and after. He also said he was given a replica of the wall.
He referred to the Arizona U.S. Senate race and introduced Martha McSally, "Who I hear is doing very well. We need you in Washington -- will you please win?"
He claimed the wall was just about "unclimbable" and touted lower border crossings and drug seizures.
“Maybe somebody can get an extraordinarily long ladder.”
He called the attempt to topple the Andrew Jackson statue in Lafayette Square a "sneak attack" and said "law enforcement did an incredible job. They ran into that place."
He mused how some want to remove statues of other historical figures. "These aren't protesters. These are agitators. So we've taken a very strong stance. ... It won't be happening with the federal statues and monuments."



June 23, 202014:17

White House travel pool report 6/ event over, rolling for wall visit 
Roundtable ended at 12:11 pm and we are rolling for approx 15-20 minute ride to the wall construction zone.



June 23, 202015:04

White House travel pool report 7/wall and DACA and H1 visa comments 
At the wall site the president examined the tall metal fence, composed of individual rods spaced close together. He signed a metal plaque attached to the structure marking 200 miles of construction. He was followed by Gov. Doug Ducey, McSally, Lesko snd others.
It's 102 outside, and dusty. The president and his party walked around a little but mostly just stood and listened to a guide for a few minutes.
The terrain is flat and brown, except for a corn field across the road. Trump called the wall “really foolproof,” and took two questions. Asked about why he wants to end DACA he replied:
“Good things are happening with DACA. We'll resubmit but we'll Work it out.”
Says Democrats have flailed on DACA for years but “I'll get it done. Good things will Happen with DACA pretty soon.”
Asked whether he has a message for Dreamers he replied,:“Put your chin up good things are going to happen.”
Re why the suspension of green cards:“So We want to give jobs to Americans right now right now we want jobs going to Americans.”
At 12:59 we are rolling back to the airport.



June 23, 202015:36

White House travel-pool report 8/ Yuma departure 
At 1:29 we were back at the plane. The president was aboard before press reached the back stairs.
Rolling at 1:36. 35/40 minute flight to Phoenix.



June 23, 202016:18

White House travel pool report 9/ Phoenix arrival 
AF-1 landed at Phoenix Sky Harbor at 2:14 pm local MST. Uneventful flight with no visitors.



June 23, 202016:32

White House travel pool report 10/ Phoenix greeters 
The president deplaned at 2:29 followed by Ducey, McSally and Lesko.At 2:31 pm we are rolling to Dream City Church in north Phoenix.
It's 108 degrees on the tarmac.
Per the White House, President Trump was met on the tarmac by
Supervisor Clint HickmanVice Chairman of Arizona's 4th District, Maricopa County Board of Supervisors
Mayor Jenn DanielsMayor of the Town of Gilbert, AZ



June 23, 202016:47

White House travel pool report 11/ Church address details
Per the White House, this is an “address to young Americans,” although the group sponsoring it is affiliated with Trump ally Charlie Kirk's pro-Trump organization “Turning Point.”
The following individuals are expected to attend:
The White HousePresident Donald J. Trump
Members of CongressMartha McSally, United States Senator from ArizonaPaul Gosar, United States Representative from Arizona's 4th Congressional DistrictDavid Schweikert, United States Representative from Arizona's 6th Congressional DistrictAndy Biggs, United States Representative from Arizona's 5th Congressional DistrictMatt Gaetz, United States Representative from Florida's 1st Congressional DistrictDebbie Lesko, United States Representative from Arizona's 8th Congressional District
External ParticipantsCharlie Kirk, President and Chief Executive Officer of Turning Point ActionClint Hickman, Supervisor and County Board Chair of Maricopa County, ArizonaRichard Grenell, Former United States Ambassador to Germany and Former Acting Director of National IntelligenceRusty Bowers, Speaker of the Arizona House of Representatives and Representative from Arizona's 25th State House DistrictKaren Fann, President of the Arizona Senate and Senator from Arizona's 1st State Senate DistrictKimberly Yee, State Treasurer of Arizona ChairwomanKelli Ward, Chairwoman of the Arizona Republican PartyPastor Luke Barnett, Senior Pastor of Dream City ChurchAngel Barnett, Spouse of Pastor Luke Barnett



June 23, 202018:17

White House travel pool 12/ church event arrival 
Motorcade arrived at Dream City Church shortly before 3 pm and pool is now inside awaitingPresident Trump.
It's a full-on re-election rally vibe with chants of “Four More Years” and “Lock Her Up!” Serving as warmup speaker, Kimberly Guilfoyle mocked Joe Biden and Susan Rice, among other
Democrats and drew rousing cheers.
Donald Trump Jr. speaking now, also criticizing Biden.
The hall is mostly full but there are empty seats, especially on the upper decks.
Very few people are wearing masks.
Along the route we saw scattered Trump supporters with Trump 2020 signs.
At the entrance to the church a group of protesters held aloft signs that included:“Trump's virus failure”“Trump doesn't care about you““Stop Trump 2020”
The event is live-streamed here:
https://youtu.be/fp1mw1qU6dk



June 23, 202018:51

White House travel pool report 13/ rally remarks 
Trump took the stage at 3:30 pm MST to “God Bless The USA.”
Remarks underway, with references to alleged voter fraud, “left-wing mob” and “desecrating monuments.”
A few quotes – check against broadcast and transcript.
“The radical left, they hate our history, they hate our values and they hate everything we prize as Americans.”
“The left is not trying to promote justice or equality or lift up the downtrodden. They have one goal – the pursuit of their own political power.”
“If you give power to people who demolish monuments and attack churches, set fire to buildings, then nothing is sacred and nothing is safe.”
Trump referred to today's Obama appearance with Biden and said Obama doesn't seem enthusiastic about Biden and had waited a long time to endorse him. There were boos in the crowd at the mention of Obama's name.
Little mention of the coronavirus pandemic so far, except the usual description of it as the “plague” from China.
Remarks ongoing.



June 23, 202019:05

White House travel pool report 14 - more from rally on statues/monuments 
Talking about the Lafayette Square protest and effort to bring down the Grant statue, Trump said the protests would be stopped.
“Now we'll stop it, don't worry. Ten years is a long time to spend in prison,” he said in apparent reference to what he wants to see as a sentence for such vandalism.
He talked about the wall visit, prompting a chant of “Build the Wall.”Has pointed to a few guests including Rep. Matt Gaetz (R-Fla.) and Ambassador Ric Grenell.
Still going.



June 23, 202019:10

White House travel pool report 15/ Kung flu reference 
Trump teased the crowd about the various names for the virus, prompting some to shout “kung flu,” which Trump then repeated, playfully.“Kung flu,” he said to a roar of applause.
“We are going to be stronger than ever before and it's going to be soon.”



June 23, 202019:45

White House travel pool report 16 / mail-in voting 
After more than 75 minutes, Trump's campaign-style speech is still going.
He did an extended riff about voter fraud and mail-in ballots, saying the “plague” is being used as a cover to expand mail-in voting and repeating his claim that “foreign powers” could tamper with them.
“It's gonna be fraud all over the place.”
The crowd response was more muted for this theme. Arizona uses mail-in ballots and some 80 percent of voters use the option.
There were several references to the pandemic but none directly about the experience in Arizona.
As Trump listed off what he called successes in covid testing and ventilators, a man stood and shouted “no more masks” several times.



June 23, 202019:04

White House travel pool report 17/ speech concludes 
Trump has wrapped up at 5:03 pm - after approximately 90 minutes.As”You Can't Always Get What You Want” plays, we are pulling out.



June 23, 202019:41

White House travel pool report 18/ Phoenix departure 
Motorcade arrived at Phoenix Sky Harbor at 5:33 pm. Pool did not see the president go aboard.
At 5:49 we are rolling for JBA.



June 24, 202000:33

White House travel pool report 19/ JBA arrival 
AF1 landed at 12:14 am. The president deplaned at 12:24 and went immediately to Marine One.
Marine One took off at 12:29.
Good night everyone, and thanks again to co-pooler Alex Leary of WSJ.




  