
    Memorandum for the Heads of Executive Departments and Agencies
Last month, I announced plans for a White House Conference on Small Business, in January 1980. It has been several decades since any Administration has focused upon the role of small business in the economy. By the time of the Conference, I would like to be able to show that the relationship between the Federal government and the small business sector has improved significantly.
In order to further the objectives of that Conference, your agency should select, in cooperation with SBA, at least one important advance to report to the Conference. Ideally, this means developing an initiative that will be visible and completed or well underway by December 1979.
The initiative you select should be relevant and important to your constituency, and to the small business community in general. An agency involved in regulation of small companies might, for example, simplify their regulations. Agencies with substantial procurement activity might increase their procurement from small businesses. Other areas for programs include: capital development, government regulation/paperwork, technology and industrial innovation, management assistance, minorities/women enterprise, antitrust/ consumer affairs/competition, international trade policy, agricultural policy, manpower and human resources development, natural resources/energy tax policy.
To coordinate this project, please delegate as a liaison either an Assistant Secretary or Personal Assistant, to deal directly with the Honorable A. Vernon Weaver, the Small Business Administrator. He will discuss this request directly with you soon. You should develop preliminary options, in conjunction with SBA, by the end of August 1978. It may be useful to first select a few alternatives for discussion with SBA, and agree on the most acceptable program. The Domestic Policy Staff will conduct the final review of all options.
Thank you for your participation in this important effort to assist our country's small businesses.
JIMMY CARTER
  