
    One important part of a comprehensive energy conservation program is the effective use of telecommunications technology—including the telephone, mobile radio, television, satellites, and computers. In a time of widespread inflation and high unemployment, telecommunications is one of the few sectors of the economy which has consistently provided more jobs with increased productivity. New applications of telecommunications can do much more to improve our quality of life and conserve our scarce resources.
I am pleased to note the efforts at a number of California universities and research institutes to evaluate the potential of telecommunications for increasing the efficiency of energy-intensive activities such as travel. New ways of using telecommunications—such as telephones linked to computers or audio and video conferencing—bring the promise of substantial time, money, and energy savings in the use of public transit.
In other areas, we can, for example, make better use of mobile radio and computers for on-the-spot diagnosis of heart attacks and delivery of emergency medical services. We can offer greater variety and quality of educational and community-oriented programing through broadcast and cable television. The technology is here today. What we need—but do not yet have—are the institutional mechanism and commitment in both the public and private sectors to make best use of our technological assets.
The federal government can play a constructive role in encouraging more effective use of telecommunications. I believe that the federal research and development emphasis should be on innovative uses of telecommunications and information services—particularly for improving productivity in the delivery of public services by federal, state, and local government agencies.
In addition, there is a need to review the Communications Act of 1934— the basic legislative framework for national communications policy—with respect to the technological, economic, social, and other changes which have occurred since its enactment. When the act was first passed, television, satellites, and computers did not exist The thrust of new technology is raising policy issues which the act does not now address.
Telecommunications is of growing importance to California and the nation and indeed to the world. We should encourage public participation in the formulation of communications policy, and insure that the views of users and consumers along with industrial producers and suppliers are well represented. Another goal will be to make sure that the promise of telecommunications technology reaches out to rural and lesser developed areas, as well as to our urban and suburban centers.
  