
    President Donald J. Trump today announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key positions in his Administration:
Rae Oliver Davis of Virginia, to be Inspector General of the Department of Housing and Urban Development.
Mrs. Oliver Davis currently serves as the Acting Assistant Inspector General for the Office of Special Inquiry. Mrs. Oliver Davis has served nearly ten years in the Inspector General Community. Prior to joining the Office of Inspector General for the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development, she served as Chief Investigative Counsel for the Office of the Special Inspector General for the Troubled Asset Relief Program. She also served in the Office of the General Counsel for the Office of the Inspector General for the United States Postal Service. Mrs. Oliver Davis served as an Assistant United States Attorney for the Western District of Tennessee from 2002 to 2007. She also served as an Assistant Attorney General for the State of Tennessee from 1999 to 2002. Earlier in her career, Mrs. Oliver Davis served on the then Senate Governmental Affairs Committee and the House Government Reform and Oversight Committee. Mrs. Oliver Davis received a J.D. from University of Memphis Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law and a B.S. from Murray State University.
Derek J. Hogan of Virginia, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Moldova.
Mr. Derek J. Hogan, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Counselor, has served as an American diplomat since 1997. He is currently Deputy Executive Secretary of the United States Department of State, a position he has held since 2017. Mr. Hogan is one of the Department of State's experts on Eastern Europe, having served five tours working in or on Eastern Europe, including Russia. He has held senior leadership positions both at United States missions overseas and domestically for the Department of State. Mr. Hogan most recent overseas tours – as Chargé d'affaires and Deputy Chief of Mission in Azerbaijan from 2013 to 2016 and as the Department of State Representative on the civilian-military Provincial Reconstruction Teams in Southern (Uruzgan Province) and Eastern (Kunar Province) Afghanistan from 2008 to 2009 – have demonstrated that he possesses the leadership, management, innovation, and communication abilities needed to succeed in complex operating environments. Mr. Hogan earned a B.A. from the University of Pittsburgh and a M.P.A. from Princeton University's Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs. He is the recipient of multiple Superior and Meritorious Honor Awards from the Department of State. Mr. Hogan speaks Russian and Spanish.
Joseph Maguire of Florida, to be Director of the National Counterterrorism Center, Office of the Director of National Intelligence.
Mr. Joseph Maguire has served as President and Chief Executive Officer of the Special Operations Warrior Foundation since September 2013, after serving three years on the Foundation's Board of Directors. As a career Naval Special Warfare Officer, he retired from the United States Navy in 2010 as a Vice Admiral after thirty-six years in uniform. He commanded at every level in the Naval Special Warfare Command, which is the Navy Component of United States Special Operations Command. His last assignment in Government was as the National Counterterrorism Center's Deputy Director for Strategic Operational Planning, during which he served as a member of the National Security Council's Counterterrorism Security Group. A native of New York City, Mr. Maguire was awarded a B.S. from Manhattan College and a MSTI from the Naval Postgraduate School in Monterey, California. He also was a National Security Fellow at Harvard University. He and his wife Kathy currently reside in Tampa, Florida.
  