
    "Americans have always believed in the power of redemption – that those who have fallen can work toward brighter days ahead. -President Donald J. Trump
PROVIDING A SECOND CHANCE AT SUCCESS: President Donald J. Trump is advancing second chance hiring to help give all Americans the opportunity to work towards a brighter future. 

The Trump Administration is promoting second chance hiring to ensure Americans have opportunities to succeed after leaving prison.
The President is mobilizing resources across his Administration to boost second chance hiring.

The Department of Justice and Bureau of Prisons is launching a new "Ready to Work Initiative" to connect employers directly with former prisoners.
The Department of Labor is awarding more than $2 million to States to support fidelity bonds that will underwrite companies that hire workers with criminal backgrounds.
The Department of Education is expanding an initiative that allows individuals in prison to receive Pell Grants to better prepare themselves for the workforce.
The Office of Personnel Management is working to make USAJOBS – the Federal Government's job listings – available to individuals in Federal prison and upon release.


The Trump Administration is working with the private sector and non-profit organizations to help give former prisoners a second chance at the American dream.

Employers realize that second chance hiring is good for their businesses, especially in today's thriving economy where there are far more job opportunities than job seekers.
Non-profits play a critical role by providing transitional assistance, counseling, housing, and education to former prisoners so they may become productive members of society.



FROM THE FIRST STEP TO A SECOND CHANCE: The First Step Act and second chance hiring are part of President Trump's agenda to create opportunity for all Americans.

Second chance hiring builds on the success of the historic First Step Act signed into law by President Trump in December 2018. The First Step Act created a fairer justice system for all and enacted programs to reduce recidivism and make our communities safer.
This landmark legislation reformed policies that failed Americans for decades and enabled some offenders to petition for a review of their sentences.
Since the First Step Act was signed into law, 90 percent of those who have had their sentences reduced are African American.

LIFTING UP OUR WORKERS, BUSINESSES, AND COMMUNITIES: The American people, our businesses, and our communities all benefit from second chance hiring. 

Second chance hiring gives former prisoners the chance to successfully reenter society and live a life with dignity and meaning.
Instead of struggling to find the talent they need, businesses that hire former prisoners can often gain productive and dedicated workers.
All Americans benefit when former prisoners are able to find an occupation and a purpose rather than returning to crime.

  