
    BST (local time)
The First Lady and the President arrived in London, England on Thursday afternoon. They were greeted by United States Ambassador to the United Kingdom, Woody Johnson; Lord-Lieutenant of Essex, Jennifer Tolhurst; Secretary of State for International Trade, The Right Honorable Liam Fox; and Chief Executive Officer of the Stansted Limited Airport, Brad Miller. The First Lady joined her husband in a meet and greet with United States Embassy staff and their families at Winfield House in London. In the evening, the First Lady and the President met British Prime Minister Theresa May and her husband, Philip May, and participated in an arrival ceremony at Blenheim Palace followed by a tour of the Winston Churchill exhibition. Mrs. Trump and the President then attended a gala dinner in the Long Library at Blenheim Palace.
On Friday morning, the First Lady visited the Royal Hospital Chelsea (RHC) in London. Upon arrival, Mrs. Trump, accompanied by Suzanne Johnson, spouse of United States Ambassador to the United Kingdom, was met by Philip May; Gary Lashko, Chief Executive Officer of RHC; and three Chelsea Pensioners, before touring the facility.
The RHC, originally constructed 326 years ago by King Charles II to care for British soldiers in the 17th century, now cares for over 300 Chelsea Pensioners, who are former soldiers of the British Army over the age of 65, and provides them with the support and comradery of their fellow veterans.
The First Lady, Mr. May, Pensioners, and local schoolchildren from St. George's Church of England Primary School spent the morning making poppies, which are a symbol of remembrance for fallen soldiers.
Mrs. Trump, along with the Pensioners and schoolchildren, met with St. George's Headteacher, Sarah Collymore. St. George's students are educated under the school's motto "the best that we can be." Mrs. Trump listened to the Pensioners and children tell their stories of how they live their lives under this motto.
"Today's visit to RHC was focused in two areas," said First Lady Melania Trump. "First, it is always an honor to meet with soldiers who have dedicated a life of service to their country for freedom and protection of their people. Secondly, I was very much looking forward to discussing concepts of "Be Best" on an international level. The event highlighted that being the best you can be incorporates honoring the sacrifices of the past and celebrating hope for the future."
The First Lady and Mr. May's last stop was at a bowling green on the lawn of RHC. Mrs. Trump and Mr. May watched as children played bowls, which is an outdoor English lawn game, and joined in as well.
"Thank you to the Pensioners and wonderful staff of RHC; the students and staff of St. George's Church of England Primary School; and to Mr. May for accompanying me on a wonderful outing in your country," said First Lady Melania Trump.
In the afternoon, the First Lady and the President met with Her Majesty, Queen Elizabeth II for tea at Windsor Castle.
The First Lady is expected to join her husband in Scotland and Finland before returning home to Washington, D.C.
  