
    Pool Reports by Erin Logan, Los Angeles Times 



Sent:
Reports:




June 23, 2023 09:29

In-Town Pool #1: Kirby at the briefing
From the WH: NSC Coordinator for Strategic Communications John Kirby will join Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre at the press briefing today.
The briefing is scheduled for 1pm.
Here's todays schedule:
EDT
10:00 AM In-Town Pool Call Time 
10:00 AM THE PRESIDENT receives the Presidential Daily Briefing Closed Press
11:45 AM THE PRESIDENT and Prime Minister Modi of the Republic of India meet with senior officials and CEOs of American and Indian companies gathered to discuss innovation, investment, and manufacturing in a variety of technology sectors, including AI, semiconductors, and space East Room In-House Pool Spray (Gather 11:35 AM – Palm Room Doors)
3:45 PM THE PRESIDENT, THE FIRST LADY, THE VICE PRESIDENT, and THE SECOND GENTLEMAN depart the White House en route The Mayflower Hotel, Washington, DC  North Grounds In-Town Travel Pool (Gather 3:35 PM – Stakeout Location)
4:00 PM THE PRESIDENT and THE FIRST LADY will participate in a political event with reproductive rights groups. THE VICE PRESIDENT and THE SECOND GENTLEMAN also participate The Mayflower Hotel, Washington, DC Open Press
5:00 PM THE PRESIDENT and THE FIRST LADY return to the White House from The Mayflower Hotel, Washington, DC. The Mayflower Hotel, Washington, DC In-Town Travel Pool
5:05 PM THE PRESIDENT and the FIRST LADY arrive at the White House North Grounds  In-Town Travel Pool
Briefing Schedule
EDT
1:00 PM Press Briefing by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre 


June 23, 2023 09:58

In-Town Pool #2: Briefing moved to 2pm
Per the White House.


June 23, 2023 11:22

In-Town Pool Report #3: Briefing moved to 1:30pm
From the White House: The press briefing will begin at 1:30pm. 


June 23, 2023 11:52

In-Town Pool #4: Gather for spray
The in town press pool is gathering for the pool spray for POTUS meeting with Indian Prime Minister Modi, senior officials and tech chief executives. 


June 23, 2023 12:30

In-Town Pool #5: Notes from the spray
The in town and foreign press pools entered the East Room at 12:14. POTUS and Indian PM Modi sat at the center of a long table facing the press in front of two sets of the American and Indian flags.
At the top of the spray, Biden spoke of the importance of the two countries—both the public and private sectors—working together to innovate and transform society.
"Our countries are taking innovation…to a new level," Biden said. "Thanks in large part to the folks at the table."
Your pooler spotted the CEO of Apple, Tim Cook, who sat to the right of Modi. WH Chief if Staff Jeff Zients sat across from Cook. Commerce Secretary Gina Raimondo sat next to Zients, annd across from Modi. Bill Nelson, NASA administrator, sat at the end of the table, opposite of the US Ambassador to India, Eric Garcetti, who is also the former Mayor of Los Angeles.
Around 24 people sat in two rows in chairs at one end of the table. Your pooler is working on getting a list of those who attended the meeting.
After Biden's spoke, Modi made remarks in Hindi for roughly four minutes.
The press was shuffled out at 12:21pm.
I will send more later.


June 23, 202312:59

In-Town Pool #5a: more from the spray
At the top of the meeting, POTUS made a joke to the press corps about sharing state secrets with chief executives and Indian officials before the press came into the room.
"I started off without you," Biden told reporters.
In his remarks, Biden said both nations are designing and developing new technology to change the world.
Biden noted that they are launching new programs between Indian and America. "Our countries are taking innovation and cooperation to a new level."
"Thanks in large part to the folks around this table," he said, adding that "we have to keep it up and we have to make sure we aim even higher."
"We need to help seize the moment, help manage the risk to our society, economy…"
Biden added told chief executives they need their help to "build guardrails around emerging technologies" so they are "trustworthy, secure and uphold our shared values in human rights."
Biden said the partnership with India is important for the world and touches on "climate change..exploring the universe…lifting people out of poverty…"
"So our partnership between India and the United States will go a long way in my view," Biden said.
Here is the complete recording: https://otter.ai/u/BrZPZzT2qlvWJl2hvUVX5b6_-KE?utm_source=copy_url
Thanks to eagle eye pooler Chris Megerian of AP for helping identify US officials and Steve Holland for sharing an extended list of attendees.
From the WH:
The President and Prime Minister Modi of the Republic of India are meeting with senior officials and CEOs of American and Indian companies gathered to discuss innovation, investment, and manufacturing in a variety of technology sectors, including AI, semiconductors, and space.
ParticipantsT.H. Gina Raimondo, Secretary of Commerce T.H. Jeff Zients, Chief of Staff T.H. Lael Brainard, Director, National Economic Council T.H. Eric Garcetti, Ambassador of the United States to the Republic of India H.E. Dr. Subrahmanyam Jaishankar, Minister of External Affairs H.E. Ajit Doval, National Security Advisor H.E. Vinay Mohan Kwatra, Foreign Secretary H.E. Taranjit Singh Sandhu, Ambassador of the Republic of India to the United States Mr. Rajesh Singh, Secretary, Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade T.H. Bill Nelson, NASA Administrator T.H. Sethuraman Panchanathan, Director of the National Science Foundation Mr. Sundar Pichai, CEO, Google Mr. Sam Altman, CEO, OpenAI Mr. Tim Cook, CEO, Apple Ms. Revathi Advaithi, CEO, Flex Ms. Lisa Su, CEO, AMD Mr. Thomas Tull, Founder, Tulco LLC Mr. Hemant Taneja, CEO and Managing Director, General Catalyst Mr. Mark Douglas, President and CEO, FMC Corporation Mr. Will Marshall, CEO, Planet Labs CAPT Sunita Williams, U.S. Navy (Ret.), NASA Astronaut Mr. Satya Nadella, CEO, Microsoft Mr. Anand Mahindra, Chairman, Mahindra Group Mr. Mukesh Ambani, Chairman & MD, Reliance Industries Mr. Nikhil Kamath, Co-Founder, Zerodha & True Beacon Ms. Vrinda Kapoor, Co-Founder, 3rdiTech
U.S. DelegationT.H. Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs T.H. Kurt Campbell, Coordinator for Asia, NSC T.H. Tarun Chhabra, Senior Director for Technology, NSC T.H. Eileen Laubacher, Senior Director for South Asia, NSC Ms. Helena Fu, Director for Technology Alliances, NSC Mr. Anthony Renzulli, Director for India, NSC Mr. Edward "Ted" Dean, Counselor to the Secretary, Department of Commerce Jenny Kaplan, Senior Advisor Elizabeth Kelly, Special Assistant to the President for Economic Policy, NEC Jana Plat, Senior Advisor for Public Engagement
India DelegationMs. Vani Sarraju Rao, Additional Secretary (Americas) Ms. Sripriya Ranganathan, Deputy Chief of Mission, Embassy of India Mr. Arindam Bagchi, Additional Secretary and Official Spokesperson Dr. Deepak Mittal, Joint Secretary to the Prime Minister Dr. Hiren Joshi, Officer on Special Duty Mr. Vivek Kumar, Private Secretary to the Prime Minister Dr. Vipin Kumar, Deputy Secretary Ms. Nidhi Tewari, Deputy Secretary
Speaking ProgramThe President Prime Minister Narendra Modi of the Republic of India


June 23, 2023 12:33

In-Town Pool #6: Biden calls Pennsylvania Gov. on I-95 re-opening
From the White House:
The President called Governor Shapiro about the successful re-opening of I-95, which came ahead of schedule today, following round-the-clock shifts by workers and close cooperation between federal, state, and local agencies. 


June 23, 2023 13:39

In-Town Pool #7: 2 min warning for the briefing
[APP Note: No additional text was included in this report.]


June 23, 2023 13:42

In-Town Pool #8: briefing begins
At 1:40pm


June 23, 2023 14:35

In-Town Pool #9: briefing ends
At 2:33pm 


June 23, 2023 15:37

In-Town Pool #10: gathering
The press pool is en route to the motorcade for a short drive to the Mayflower Hotel where Biden will deliver remarks at a reproductive rights event.


June 23, 2023 16:00

In-Town Pool #11: motorcade rolling
At 3:58 en route to the Mayflower Hotel to deliver remarks at a political event hosted by reproductive rights groups, per the WH guidance.
POTUS is expected to be at the event alongside FLOTUS, VPOTUS and SGOTUS.
Your pooler did not see Biden enter his vehicle. 


June 23, 2023 16:05

In-Town Pool #12: motorcade arrives
At 4:00 at the Mayflower Hotel. Your pooler did not see POTUS exit his vehicle. The pool is being moved inside.
The ride was uneventful. Onlookers stood on Connecticut Avenue with smart phones recording the motorcade as it glided through the city.


June 23, 2023 16:30

In-Town Pool #13: Details about the reproductive event
The in-town travel pool is sitting inside a ballroom at The Mayflower Hotel in Washington, D.C., awaiting for POTUS to being remarks. The event is being hosted by the DNC alongside Emily's List, NARAL Pro-Choice America and Planned Parenthood.
Before POTUS came on stage, former House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, NARAL Pro-Choice America President Mini Timmaraju spoke. Emily's List President Laphonza Butler is now giving remarks.
From the White House:
On behalf of the Biden-Harris campaign:
The President, the Vice President, the First Lady, and the Second Gentleman participate in a political event with reproductive rights groups.
Pre-Program: Speaker Emerita Nancy Pelosi (CA-11)
Speaking Program: The Second Gentleman The First Lady The Vice President Dr. Serina Floyd The President
From the White House: Traveling with the President and the First Lady via motorcade en route to the Mayflower Hotel:
The Vice President The Second Gentleman Jen O'Malley Dillon, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations Anthony Bernal, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the First Lady Emmy Ruiz, Assistant to the President & Director of the Office of Political Strategy & Outreach Travis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director Vanessa Valdivia, Special Assistant to the President & Press Secretary for the First Lady Ryan Harper, Special Assistant to the President & National Security Council Deputy Chief of Staff 


June 23, 2023 16:45

In-Town Pool #14: SGOTUS and FLOTUS remarks begin
SGOTUS and FLOTUS walked on stage at 4:37. Emhoff spoke first, for about five minutes. FLOTUS began her remarks at 4:42pm. She is still speaking.
The event is being live streamed on the DNC's Twitter. https://twitter.com/TheDemocrats/status/1672333946560937984?s=20 


June 23, 2023 16:52

In-Town Pool #15: VPOTUS remarks begin
FLOTUS' remarks ended at 4:50. The pair left the stage
Here is an otter for hers and Emhoff's remarks.
https://otter.ai/u/xkbAhNcOTy1p4vAAFPr6fpfAOPU
VPOTUS walked on stage at 4:50pm. She is giving remarks now.
This event is being live streamed:
https://twitter.com/TheDemocrats/status/1672333946560937984?s=20 


June 23, 2023 17:02

In-Town Pool #16: VPOTUS remarks end
This event is being live streamed:
https://twitter.com/TheDemocrats/status/1672333946560937984?s=20
VPOTUS left the stage at 5:00PM 


June 23, 2023 17:02

In-Town Pool #17: POTUS remarks begin in two minutes
Per the WH.
This event is being live streamed:
https://twitter.com/TheDemocrats/status/1672333946560937984?s=20 


June 23, 2023 17:04

In-Town Pool #18: POTUS remarks begin
POTUS walked on stage at 5:02pm. His remarks are starting now.
This event is being live streamed:
https://twitter.com/TheDemocrats/status/1672333946560937984?s=20 


June 23, 2023 17:17

In-Town Pool #19: POTUS remarks end
At 5:14pm
Before leaving the stage, he was joined by FLOTUS, VPOTUS and SGOTUS, who left after he did.
This event is being live streamed:
https://twitter.com/TheDemocrats/status/1672333946560937984?s=20
Here is a recording of his remarks link: https://otter.ai/u/9jv8cnPXW8PoukTxPV2BotnkYxI
Intown pool is holding the ballroom. 


June 23, 2023 17:39

In-Town Pool #20: motorcade rolling
At 5:37
Your pooler did not see POTUS enter his vehicle.
After Biden finished remarks, he walked to a barricade at the front of the crowd, spoke with supporters, took selfies and shook hands until around 5:27.
The press pool was shuffled out of the room at 5:28.
As the pool walked to the motorcade, your pooler noticed that a conservative women's group was preparing host an event in the what seemed to be the neighboring ballroom.


June 23, 2023 18:09

In-Town Pool #21: lid
6:08pm
From the WH:
Week Ahead 6/23-7/2
Tomorrow, the President will travel to Camp David where he will remain over the weekend.
On Monday, the President and Vice President will kick off the next phase of Administration's Investing in America tour with a significant high-speed internet infrastructure announcement here at the White House.
On Tuesday, the President will travel to Chevy Chase, Maryland to participate in campaign receptions.
On Wednesday, the President will travel to Chicago, Illinois.
In the afternoon, the President will deliver a major address on "Bidenomics"— his vision for growing the economy from the middle out and the bottom up, not the top-down.
The President will highlight how, for too long, failed trickle-down economic policies that continue to be pushed by Congressional Republican have hollowed out the middle class and sent jobs overseas. President Biden's economic plan is a break from those failed policies—it is focused on growing the middle class and empowering workers, investing in America, and lowering costs. And, it is delivering results with more than 13 million jobs created and the strongest economic growth among any of the world's leading economies since the pandemic began.
Later, the President will participate in a campaign reception.
On Thursday, the President will travel to New York, New York.
In the evening, the President will participate in campaign receptions.
On Friday afternoon, the President will deliver remarks on lowering costs for hardworking Americans.
Later, the President will travel to Camp David where he will remain over the weekend. 




Pool Reports below by Lalit K Jha, Press Trust of India 



Sent:
Reports:




June 23, 2023 11:12

Foreign Pool Report # 1
Hi,
I am your foreign pooler for the POTUS-India PM meeting this morning with senior officials and CEOs of American and Indian companies gathered to discuss innovation, investment, and manufacturing in a variety of technology sectors, including AI, semiconductors, and space.
As per the Indian side, the following have confirmed their participation:
U.S. Company Representatives:
Revathi Advaithi, CEO, Flex Sam Altman, CEO, OpenAI Mark Douglas, President and CEO, FMC Corporation Lisa Su, CEO, AMD Will Marshall, CEO, Planet Labs Satya Nadella, CEO, Microsoft Sundar Pichai, CEO, Google Hemant Taneja, CEO and Managing Director, General Catalyst Thomas Tull, Founder, Tulco LLC Sunita Williams, NASA Astronaut
India Company representatives
Mr. Anand Mahindra, Chairman, Mahindra Group Mr. Mukesh Ambani, Chairman & MD, Reliance Industries  Mr. Nikhil Kamath, Co-Founder, Zerodha & True Beacon Ms. Vrinda Kapoor, Co-Founder, 3rdiTech 


June 23, 202312:54

Foreign Pool Report # 2
Hi,
The pool entered the East Room at about 12.15 pm. POTUS and PM were seated in the center of the long table with CEOs and domain experts on both sides of the table.
Among notable presence from the Indian delegation were External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar, National Security Advisor Ajit K Doval, Foreign Secretary Vinay Kwatra and Indias Ambassador to the US Taranjit Singh SANDHU.
Your pooler could see Reliance group head Mukesh Ambani and Mahindra' head Anand Mahindra along with Satya Nadella from Microsoft, Sunder Pichai from Google and Astronaut Sunita Williams.
POTUS spoke first and highlighted the significance of tie ups between tech sectors of the two countries.
PM Modi started speaking at 12.18 pm. The present gathering of CEOs and individuals are from every domain and aspects of life, he said. It has representations from large companies and startup.
India US relationship is a partnership of talent and technology the PM said. This new beginning guarantees a new dawn. President Biden's strength and vision and India' talent offers a huge potential for the two nations.
Pool left the room at 12.21 pm 


June 23, 202313:12

Foreign Pool Note # 3
From the WH
The President and Prime Minister Modi of the Republic of India are meeting with senior officials and CEOs of American and Indian companies gathered to discuss innovation, investment, and manufacturing in a variety of technology sectors, including AI, semiconductors, and space.
Participants T.H. Gina Raimondo, Secretary of Commerce T.H. Jeff Zients, Chief of Staff T.H. Lael Brainard, Director, National Economic Council T.H. Eric Garcetti, Ambassador of the United States to the Republic of India H.E. Dr. Subrahmanyam Jaishankar, Minister of External Affairs H.E. Ajit Doval, National Security Advisor H.E. Vinay Mohan Kwatra, Foreign Secretary H.E. Taranjit Singh Sandhu, Ambassador of the Republic of India to the United States Mr. Rajesh Singh, Secretary, Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade T.H. Bill Nelson, NASA Administrator T.H. Sethuraman Panchanathan, Director of the National Science Foundation Mr. Sundar Pichai, CEO, Google Mr. Sam Altman, CEO, OpenAI Mr. Tim Cook, CEO, Apple Ms. Revathi Advaithi, CEO, Flex Ms. Lisa Su, CEO, AMD Mr. Thomas Tull, Founder, Tulco LLC Mr. Hemant Taneja, CEO and Managing Director, General Catalyst Mr. Mark Douglas, President and CEO, FMC Corporation Mr. Will Marshall, CEO, Planet Labs CAPT Sunita Williams, U.S. Navy (Ret.), NASA Astronaut Mr. Satya Nadella, CEO, Microsoft Mr. Anand Mahindra, Chairman, Mahindra Group Mr. Mukesh Ambani, Chairman & MD, Reliance Industries Mr. Nikhil Kamath, Co-Founder, Zerodha & True Beacon Ms. Vrinda Kapoor, Co-Founder, 3rdiTech
U.S. Delegation T.H. Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs T.H. Kurt Campbell, Coordinator for Asia, NSC T.H. Tarun Chhabra, Senior Director for Technology, NSC  T.H. Eileen Laubacher, Senior Director for South Asia, NSC Ms. Helena Fu, Director for Technology Alliances, NSC Mr. Anthony Renzulli, Director for India, NSC Mr. Edward "Ted" Dean, Counselor to the Secretary, Department of Commerce Jenny Kaplan, Senior Advisor Elizabeth Kelly, Special Assistant to the President for Economic Policy, NEC Jana Plat, Senior Advisor for Public Engagement
India Delegation Ms. Vani Sarraju Rao, Additional Secretary (Americas) Ms. Sripriya Ranganathan, Deputy Chief of Mission, Embassy of India Mr. Arindam Bagchi, Additional Secretary and Official Spokesperson Dr. Deepak Mittal, Joint Secretary to the Prime Minister Dr. Hiren Joshi, Officer on Special Duty Mr. Vivek Kumar, Private Secretary to the Prime Minister Dr. Vipin Kumar, Deputy Secretary Ms. Nidhi Tewari, Deputy Secretary
Speaking Program The President  Prime Minister Narendra Modi of the Republic of India 



  