
    Pool Reports by Erin Logan, Los Angeles Times 



Sent:
Reports:




June 29, 202214:07 EDT

VP Supplemental Pool #1: Checking in
Hello from JBA. I will be your pooler for VP Harris through next Tuesday. It looks like I'll be the only press flying on AF2 today.
My bags have been swept and loaded onto the plane. I'm waiting for VPOTUS to arrive on the tarmac.
Harris is supposed to arrive to JBA via motorcade at 2:35pm EST. We are set to depart for San Francisco International Airport at 2:45pm EST and arrive at 6pm Pacific/9pm EST.



June 29, 202214:42 EDT

VP Supplemental Pool #2: Harris arrives at JBA, loads on AF 2
VPOTUS arrived via motorcade at JBA at 2:35 pm EST and exited her car at 2:37pm. She stopped, spoke and took photos with the people listed below for about three minutes.
She ascended AF2 at 2:41pm EST. She waved before she entered.
We will be wheels up shortly.
From the White House:
- Lt Col Brandon Dewey, Director of Staff, 89th Airlift Wing- Assistant to the Special Agent in Charge, Sunny Low, Vice Presidential Protective Division, U.S. Secret Service- Shelby Low, Wife- Spencer Low, Son- Savannah Low, Daughter



June 29, 202214:56 EDT

VP Supplemental Pool #3: Harris clarifies comments on POTUS running in 2024+ wheels up
VPOTUS came to the back of the plane for a 2 min on the record interview.
The White House said VPOTUS wanted to clarify comments she made on CNN a few days ago. When asked if Biden was definitely running in 2024, Harris replied:
"The president intends to run and if he does, I will be his ticket mate. We will run together."Harris also made comments on why Dems aren't changing the senate rules for the filibuster. She said the votes are not there. No news from the quote. I will send the transcript when we land.
Wheels up at 2:56pm EST. See y'all later!



June 29, 202217:45 PDT

VP Supplemental Pool #4: Harris comments on abortion, AF2 wheels down in SF, en route to RON
AF2 had wheels down at San Francisco International Airport at 5:12pm pacific time. VPOTUS exited the Af2 at 5:30. She entered her motorcade at 5:36.
The motorcade began rolling for RON at 5:38.
She walked over to speak with SF Mayor London Breed and Oakland Mayor Libby Schaaf for about five mins.
When press hollered questions under the wing, Harris said "it's good to be home" and walked over and spoke for about one minute. I will pass a long a transcript momentarily.
Here are the comments on abortion I promised. To clarify, I asked about changing the filibuster rules. She said the votes aren't there to bypass the filibuster:
"The reality of it is that the court has acted and now Congress needs to act. So that is the baseline point. The reality of it is that…there has to be votes in Congress to bypass the filibuster and the votes aren't there. But that does not mean that we can't focus on….what we need to do to have a pro choice congress."
Here's the entire interview.
(The comments she made in the very beginning are about my very cool medium sized salmon pink Telfar shopping bag)
From the WH:
Greeters upon Vice President Harris arrival at San Francisco International Airport are below:- London Breed (D- San Francisco, CA)- Mayor Libby Schaaf (D-Oakland, CA)



June 29, 202218:06 PDT

VP Supplemental Pool #5 comments on tarmac+RON arrival
On the tarmac, Harris said she, Breed and Schaaf were "talking about all the challenges that the nation faces."
Harris said she and Biden "both started in local government and have always coordinated, collaborated and relied on the perspective of the mayors of America to help inform what we've done."
Here is a link to audio.
https://otter.ai/u/zj3Wzwz-h_y8b4V6UQp0irrE0O4
We arrived to RON at 6:03pm. Your pooler did not see her exit the vehicle.
It looks like we are done for the day. Have a wonderful evening!




  