
    Atlanta, GA – Newt Gingrich signed the Cut, Cap and Balance pledge today strengthening his over thirty year commitment to fiscal discipline.
"Balanced budgets are achieved by those who are committed," said Gingrich, who passed the first balanced budget in a generation as U.S. House Speaker. "Fiscal discipline requires lawmakers to be smart not cheap and requires a different type of thinking than we see in Washington. I am proposing bold solutions because we have big problems. I pledge to be a President who will rein in deficits, the debt and out of control spending. It can be done, I know because we've done it before."
The Cut, Cap and Balance pledge was a created by a coalition of over 40 conservative grassroots organizations who are calling on elected officials to support spending cuts and balancing the federal budget.
The pledge reads:
I pledge to urge my Senators and Member of the House of Representatives to oppose any debt limit increase unless all three of the following conditions have been met:
1. Cut - Substantial cuts in spending that will reduce the deficit next year and thereafter.
2. Cap - Enforceable spending caps that will put federal spending on a path to a balanced budget.
3. Balance - Congressional passage of a Balanced Budget Amendment to the U.S. Constitution -- but only if it includes both a spending limitation and a super-majority for raising taxes, in addition to balancing revenues and expenses.
Gingrich was the first presidential candidate to propose a jobs plan which includes balancing the federal budget, bold tax cuts and development of an American energy plan. Combined with significant repeal of Obama era regulation the plan will eliminate the budget deficit and help pay down the national debt.
In June, Gingrich was the first presidential candidate to sign Save America Now's pledge which calls on lawmakers to utilize the Lean Six Sigma fiscal waste reduction method developed by Reagan Administration official Mike George.
Learn more about Newt's commitment to fiscal discipline.
  