
    Opinion writers and commentators are praising President Trump's historic deal with Mexico to address the surge of migrants flooding across our southern border. 
NEW YORK POST EDITORIAL BOARD: Trump's Big Win on Mexico and Immigration
"All the hysteria over President Trump's latest tariff threat to Mexico proved wrong Friday, as the two sides reached a deal that gave Trump what he'd demanded: much more vigorous cooperation in stopping illegal Central American migrants from travelling 1,200-plus miles across Mexico to sneak into the United States."
FORMER ACTING DIRECTOR OF ICE TOM HOMAN ON FOX NEWS: Trump Deserves Our Thanks for Migrant Agreement with Mexico
"The agreement President Trump announced Friday night between the U.S. and Mexico on tariffs and immigration is an achievement that has eluded past presidents. He deserves the thanks and gratitude of all Americans – but of course, he won't get it. After threatening to impose tariffs on everything Mexico exports to the U.S., Trump got Mexico to agree to finally take greater action to reduce the flow of illegal immigrants into the U.S. Trump then suspended imposition of U.S. tariffs on our southern neighbor."
NATIONAL BORDER PATROL COUNCIL PRESIDENT BRANDON JUDD ON FOX NEWS: Trump and America Are Winners by Getting Mexico to Intensify Fight Against Illegal Immigration
"Against nearly insurmountable odds, President Trump proved his critics wrong once again by getting Mexico to agree Friday to step up its efforts to reduce illegal immigration to the U.S. This is a victory not just for the president but for the U.S., because it will strengthen our national security and uphold the rule of law."
STEVE CORTES IN REALCLEAR POLITICS: Disruptor-in-Chief Shows How to Win With Mexico
"He took decisive executive action that forced the Mexican government to honor its obligations and respect the sovereignty of our land. After all, if Mexico or any other country wants access to the crown jewel of global commerce — the American consumer market — then it must act as a responsible partner. Our nation seeks prosperity and friendship with all nations, but will not be abused."
HUGH HEWITT IN THE WASHINGTON POST: Trump's Big Win Leaves Critics Sputtering
"Because President Trump emerges as a clear winner from his week-long confrontation with Mexico over our neighbor's lax enforcement of its southern border, reflexive Trump critics will scramble to find some way of containing what is a clear Trump triumph, which came with assists by Vice President Pence and Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, who conducted the key negotiations."
STEVE HILTON ON FOX NEWS: Trump Proves that Tariffs Work. Here Are the Lessons We Should Learn
"Last week we saw proof that tariffs work. President Trump threatened tariffs on Mexico. Their leaders came to negotiate, and we got concrete results."
TOM DEL BECCARO ON FOX NEWS: Trump Proven Right Again, as Tariff Threat Prompts Mexico to Act Against Illegal Immigration
"President Trump proved his doubters wrong once again. While the Democratic Congress refused to fund serious border protection, Trump went his own way and crafted a deal. … He found a promising way to decrease illegal immigration."
  