
    Pool Reports by Kéthévane Gorjestani, France 24 



Sent:
Reports:




June 20, 202212:39

VP Pool report #1
Hello all,
I'm your pooler on this beautiful day.
We're at the National Museum of African American History & Culture to mark Juneteenth.
We walked into a yellow room with about 2 dozen kids of various ages seated at small desks set up in a U shape (along with their family members)
The VP walked in at 12:21pm to some very surprized and excited kids.
She was wearing a tan jacket, white blouse, black pants & nude pumps.
"Happy Juneteenth young leaders!" she said. More quotes to come.
After speaking for a couple of minutes, she introduced the 2nd Gentleman who got a round of applause and said this was one of his favorite places in DC.
The VP & 2nd Gentleman then went over to the kids and their parents. The VP spoke to a couple of children (one very young girl got a little overwhelmed and started crying) Pool was ushered out at 12:28pm while the VP was still going around talking to the children.
Background from WH Official:
Today, Vice President Harris is surprising children visiting the National Museum of African American History and Culture for a Juneteenth Celebration. Before meeting with the VP the children participated in a story time of The ABC's of Black History by Rio Cortez.
The children the Vice President met with range from ages 4-10. Their families were also present for the drop by.



June 20, 202212:51

VP Pool report #2
"How do we define freedom? Freedom in terms of the the autonomy you have. Is freedom given to us? are we born with human rights? I would argue it is our God given right to have freedom. It is your birthright to have freedom. And then during slavery, freedom was taken. And so we're not going to celebrate being given back what God gave us anyway."
"Let this be a day to celebrate the principle of freedom and to speak about it honestly, and accurately, both through the context of history and its current application."
We're currently holding in vans out the museum.



June 20, 202213:23

VP Pool report #3
As we were holding in vans, pool saw the VP’s motorcade leaving the museum at 1:18pm. Your pooler caught a glimpse of the VP waving to a few onlookers as the motorcade drove away.
Pool is not motorcading with VP. We are headed back to the WH seperately.



June 20, 202213:37

VP Pool #4
Pool was back at the WH time t 1:35pm
That’s all from me.
Enjoy your day and Happy Juneteenth!




  