
    The following listing includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the White House Press Office and not included elsewhere in this issue.
THE PRESIDENT'S TRIP TO EUROPE
June 19
After an early morning departure ceremony on the South Lawn of the White House, the President boarded Marine One and went to Andrews Air Force Base, Md., for the flight to Italy. (For departure remarks, see page 1135.)
Late in the evening, Air Force One arrived at Ciampino Airport, Rome. The President was greeted by Marcello Guidi, Chief of Protocol for the Italian Republic, Richard N. Gardner, U.S. Ambassador to Italy, and Paolo Pansa Cedronio, Italian Ambassador to the United States.
The President then boarded Marine One and went to the Quirinale Palace, the official residence of the President of the Italian Republic. He was welcomed by President Alessandro Pertini and other Italian Government officials.
Following the review of the Palace Guard (Corazzieri) in the Salone Dei Corazzieri, the President remained overnight at the Palace.
June 20
In the morning, the President and Mrs. Carter met privately with President Pertini in the Sala D'Ercola at the Palace. The President and President Pertini then held expanded talks with members of the U.S. and Italian delegations.
Later in the morning, the President boarded Marine One enroute to the Villa Madama. After a short motorcade from the helipad, the President arrived at the Villa and was greeted by Prime Minister Francesco Cossiga. Following a private meeting, the President and Prime Minister joined members of the U.S. and Italian delegations for expanded talks and a working luncheon.
Following the luncheon, the President went by motorcade to the Victor Emmanuel Monument, where he inspected the honor guard of various services and participated in a wreath-laying ceremony at the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier, which is marked by an equestrian statue at the summit of the monument.
Immediately following the ceremony, the President, Mrs. Carter, and Amy began a tour of the Colosseum, conducted by Professor John D'Arms, Director of the American Academy of Rome. The First Family then toured the ruins of the Roman Forum.
In the late afternoon and early evening, the President held three separate meetings at the Quirinale Palace.
The first meeting was attended by members of Italian political parties of the coalition government: President Orlando Forlani and Secretary Flaminio Piccoli of the Christian Democratic Party; President Bruno Visentini and Secretary Giovanni Spadolini of the Republican Party; and Secretary Bettino Craxi of the Italian Socialist Party.
Participants in the second meeting were: Secretary Valerio Zanone of the Liberal Party and Secretary Pietro Longo and President Giuseppe Saragat of the Social Democratic Party.
At the third meeting, the President talked with Amintore Fanfani, President of the Italian Senate.
In the evening, the President and Mrs. Carter were guests at a state dinner hosted by President Pertini in the Salon Delle Feste at the Quirinale Palace. Following the dinner, the President remained overnight at the Palace.
A joint press statement was issued at the conclusion of the President's state visit to Italy.
June 21
Following a morning departure ceremony in the courtyard of the Quirinale Palace, the President went by motorcade to the memorial which marks the spot where former Prime Minister Aldo Moro's body was found in 1978 after he was assassinated by members of the Red Brigade. A wreath from the President and people of the United States had been placed near the bronze plaque commemorating the former Prime Minister.
The President visited the American Embassy in Rome and addressed members of the staff and the American community at a gathering in the courtyard.
Following his visit to the Embassy, the President went by motorcade to the Villa Borghese Park helipad, where he boarded Marine One for the flight to Vatican City. Upon arrival at the Vatican helipad, the President was greeted by Ambassador Robert Wagner, Envoy of the President to the Vatican, and representatives of the Vatican.
The President arrived by motorcade at the San Damaso Courtyard of the Vatican and proceeded inside to the Papal 'Study, where he was met by Pope John Paul II. The President and the Pope held a private meeting before being joined by Mrs. Carter and Amy. The President then introduced members of the U.S. delegation to His Holiness, and following the introductions, the President and the Pope exchanged remarks.
The President and the Pope went to the Clementine Room and addressed a group of American pilgrims who had traveled to the Vatican for the ceremony marking the beatification of Kateri Takakwitha, an Indian maiden who died in 1680.
Following the remarks in the Clementine Room, the President, Mrs. Carter, and Amy were given an hour-long tour of the Vatican. The President then went by motorcade to the helipad atop Vatican Hill, boarded Marine One, and flew to the Piazza di Siena helipad at the Villa Borghese Park. He then traveled by motorcade to the Villa Taverna, residence of the U.S. Ambassador to Italy.
Late in the afternoon, the President departed Villa Taverna via motorcade, enroute to the Piazza di Siena helipad at the Villa Borghese Park. There he boarded Marine One and flew to Ciampino Airport, where he boarded Air Force One for the trip to Venice.
A group of national and city officials greeted the President upon his arrival at Marco Polo Airport, Venice, early in the evening. After reviewing the honor guard at the airport, the President boarded Marine One. Upon arrival at the Morosini Naval College, where he was met by Commandant Vittorio Valente, the President boarded a boat and went to the Cipriani Hotel where the First Family stayed during their visit in Venice.
Shortly after arriving at the Cipriani Hotel, the President met with Chancellor Helmut Schmidt of the Federal Republic of Germany. The two leaders were joined in their discussions by Secretary of State Edmund S. Muskie and Minister of Foreign Affairs Hans-Dietrich Genscher. At the conclusion of the meeting, the President and the Chancellor answered reporters' questions outside the hotel.
Later in the evening, the President, Mrs. Carter, and Amy took a 45-minute boat tour of Venice which included a cruise along the Grand Canal. They then returned to the Cipriani Hotel.
June 22
Early in the morning, the First Family went by boat to the Church of St. Eufemia for Mass. Following the service, the President went by boat to the Cini Foundation, the site of the economic summit conference.
Prime Minister Francesco Cossiga of Italy, Chairman of the Conference, greeted the President upon his arrival at the Gini Foundation for breakfast with the other summit participants.
Shortly after breakfast, the first session of the economic summit was held in the Longhena Library.
At the conclusion of the first session, the summit participants walked to the Church of San Giorgio Maggiore for a short tour.
Following the tour of the monastery, the summit participants returned to the Cini Foundation for a working luncheon.
The second session of the economic summit was held in the afternoon in the Longhena Library. Statements on Afghanistan, refugees, diplomatic hostages, and hijacking were issued by Prime Minister Cossiga.
At the conclusion of the second session, the President met privately with President Valery Giscard d'Estaing of France at the Gini Foundation.
Upon his return to the Cipriani Hotel, the President debarked and went to the terrace outside the hotel restaurant where he answered reporters' questions.
In the evening, the President went to the Doges Palace, the former residence of the rulers of the Venetian State. After a reception in the courtyard, a private dinner for the summit participants was held in the Sala Erizzo at the Palace.
Following the dinner, the President returned to the Cipriani Hotel.
June 23
Early in the morning, the President went to the Church of San Giorgio Maggiore where he had breakfast with a group of Benedictine monks.
Following breakfast, the President returned to the Cipriani Hotel for a meeting with Prime Minister Pierre Elliott Trudeau of Canada.
The President then went to the Gini Foundation, where he met with Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher of the United Kingdom prior to attending the third session of the economic summit in the Longhena Library.
Following the third session, the summit participants held a working luncheon.
In the afternoon, the summit participants made concluding statements to the press in the Sala Degli Arazzi at the Cini Foundation and the declaration of the summit conference was issued.
At the conclusion of the conference, the President went by boat to the Cipriani Hotel, where he was interviewed by reporters.
In the evening, Ambassador and Mrs. Gardner joined the President, Mrs. Carter, and Amy for dinner at the Locanda Montin, a Venetian restaurant. Following the dinner, the First Family returned to the Cipriani Hotel.
June 24
In the morning, the President went by boat to the Morosini Naval College, where he boarded Marine One enroute to Marco Polo Airport. Upon arrival at the airport, the President boarded Air Force One for the trip to Yugoslavia.
The President arrived at Surcin Airport, Belgrade, and was greeted by President and Mrs. Cvijetin Mijatovic, Ambassador Ranko Vilus, Chief of Protocol of Yugoslavia, and Lawrence S. Eagleburger, U.S. Ambassador to Yugoslavia. After the welcoming ceremony, the two Presidents went by motorcade to Dedinje Palace, the former residence of the Court of the Serbian royal family, where the First Family stayed during their visit to Belgrade.
Later in the morning, the President, Mrs. Carter, and Amy went by motorcade to the tomb of former President Tito, which lies in a pavilion-greenhouse on the grounds of his Belgrade residence. The President placed a wreath on the tomb.
Following the visit to the Tito gravesite, the President went by motorcade to the Palace of the Federation, where he met with President Mijatovic and other Yugoslav Government officials.
In the afternoon, the President and Mrs. Carter had lunch at an outdoor restaurant called Milosev Konak, and then returned to the Dedinje Palace.
Late in the afternoon, the President, Mrs. Carter, and Amy went by motorcade to Friendship Park, the site of a grove of trees dedicated to lasting friendship among nations. They were greeted by the Mayor of Belgrade, Zivorad Kovacevic, and following a tradition established by President Tito for visiting foreign leaders, took part in a tree-planting ceremony. After planting a 4-foot-tall California Sequoia Gigantica, the President signed the Golden Book of Belgrade.
The President, Mrs. Carter, and Amy then went by motorcade to Kalemegdan Park, located on a bluff at the juncture of the Danube and Sava Rivers. Following a tour of the park, the First Family was entertained by a group of dancers, wearing costumes representative of the country's regions, who performed local dances called kolos. Following the performance, the First Family returned by motorcade to the Dedinje Palace.
In the evening, the President and Mrs. Carter were guests at a state dinner hosted by President Mijatovic in the Federal Hall at the Palace of the Federation.
Following the dinner, the President and Mrs. Carter returned to the Dedinje Palace.
June 25
In the morning, the President had breakfast with a group of Yugoslav officials at the Dedinje Palace and then went by motorcade to Surcin Airport.
Following the departure ceremony at the airport, the President boarded Air Force One for the trip to Spain.
A joint statement was issued at the conclusion of the President's visit to Yugoslavia.
The President arrived at Barajas International Airport, Madrid, and was greeted by King Juan Carlos I and Queen Sofia, Prime Minister Adolfo Suarez, Terence A. Todman, U.S. Ambassador to Spain, Jose Llado, Spanish Ambassador to the United States, and other Spanish officials. Following the welcoming ceremony, the President, accompanied by the King, went by motorcade to the Royal Palace.
At the Royal Palace, the President and Mrs. Carter and the King and Queen greeted luncheon guests in the Throne Room prior to attending the state luncheon.
Following the luncheon, the President held a meeting with King Juan Carlos I in the Papal Envoy Room at the Palace.
In the afternoon, the President, Mrs. Carter, and Amy went by motorcade to the Prado, where they toured the museum with Director Jose Manuel Pita Andrade and several American and Spanish officials.
Following the tour, the President went to Ambassador Todman's residence, where he met with Felipe Gonzalez, head of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. In the evening, the President went to the Palace of La Moncloa, the residence of the Prime Minister, for a meeting with Prime Minister Suarez. Following the meeting in the Prime Minister's office, the President attended a working dinner with the Prime Minister and Spanish and American officials.
At the conclusion of the dinner, the President returned by motorcade to Ambassador Todman's residence, where he remained overnight.
June 26
In the morning, the President visited the Chancery at the American Embassy and addressed members of the staff and American community. He then returned to Ambassador Todman's residence, boarded the motorcade, and departed enroute to Barajas International Airport.
Upon arrival at the airport, the President was greeted by King Juan Carlos I and Queen Sofia, and the President and the King held a short meeting inside the Pabellon de Estado (VIP Building).
A departure ceremony followed the President's meeting with the King. The President then boarded Air Force One for the trip to Portugal.
A press statement was issued at the conclusion of the President's visit to Spain.
Later in the morning, the President arrived at Portela Airport, Lisbon, and was greeted by President Antonio dos Sanos Ramalho Eanes, Prime Minister Francisco Sa Carneiro, Richard J. Bloomfield, U.S. Ambassador to Portugal, Joao Hall Themido, Portuguese Ambassador to the United States, and other Portuguese officials. Following the welcoming ceremony, the two Presidents went by motorcade to Jeronimos Mosteiro.
The President, Mrs. Carter, and Amy toured the monastery, and the President placed wreaths on the tombs of Portuguese epic poet Luis Vaz de Camoes and explorer Vasco de Gama.
The President left the monastery and went by motorcade to the Ajuda Palace, the royal residence of the last three Portuguese rulers, where he met with Prime Minister Sa Carneiro in the Diplomats Room.
Following the meeting, the President met with Socialist Party leader Mario Soares, former Prime Minister of Portugal, in the Diplomats Room.
In the afternoon, the President went by motorcade to Belem Palace, where he met with President Eanes in the Portuguese President's office. Following a walk in the Palace Garden, the Presidents went by motorcade to the Ajuda Palace.
The President and Mrs. Carter were guests at a state luncheon hosted by President Eanes in the Dining Room at the Palace.
After the luncheon, the President and President Eanes went to Portela Airport. Following the departure ceremony, the President boarded Air Force One for the flight to the United States.
A joint statement was issued on the President's visit to Portugal.
The President arrived at Andrews Air Force Base, Md., early in the evening and then boarded Marine One. He flew by helicopter to Camp David, Md., for a weekend stay.
  