
    Your Majesty:
Over the past 27 years, Mrs. Nixon and I have had the opportunity of visiting most of the countries of the world, and I want you to know that in no country in the world have we received what we believe is a warmer reception, a more friendly reception than we have received in Jordan.
We can also say that as we have traveled through the countries of the Mideast, we have been enormously impressed by the respect and affection for the country we represent, the United States of America. And the reason that that respect and affection exists, I believe, is because the people that we saw, both the leaders and people, recognize that we represented a nation that was dedicated to peace. They recognized that the journey we were taking to their countries was in the interest of peace. And if there is one fact that stands out after traveling through these countries that we have visited, it is this: The leaders of the nations that we visited, like yourself, Your Majesty, are dedicated to finding a way to peace, and just as important, the people that we saw--and we saw literally millions of people in five nations--are dedicated to peace.
They are dedicated to peace because they have seen that war solves no problems. Four wars in 30 years have brought nothing but hatred, distrust, and then more war. And now it is time to try a different way, a way that is sometimes more difficult--difficult from the standpoint of the statesmen to wage--than to wage war. And that is to try the way of peace, and we are embarked on that path.
As far as the United States is concerned, we will play an active role to the extent that the nations in this area want us to play an active role, and we have found in our visit that each of them welcomes a U.S. role in attempting to find a solution to these basic problems that exist and which could be the causes for more conflict. More important, I believe, that as we conclude this journey, I can say that while the problems ahead are still enormously difficult, while the steps that we have taken, though important and very difficult because they were the first steps, nevertheless are only the beginning of a much longer journey.
This is the last stop on a very long trip, but it is only the beginning of a much longer journey, a journey which, we trust, in the end will bring us to the goal of a just and lasting peace in this part of the world, because that peace will serve not just your country, Your Majesty, not just the other nations who are your neighbors, but it will serve all nations in the world, and that is what we all desire.
And finally, may I say that we, speaking in behalf of all your American guests, we express appreciation for the welcome you have given us, and we look forward to the time when we can return, return to visit with you again. And we trust that when we do return, the goal that both you and I have talked about for so many years that we have known each other, the goal of a just and lasting peace, will have been achieved.
  