
    President George W. Bush announced that he has nominated seven individuals, designated one individual, and intends to appoint three individuals, and designate one individual to serve in his Administration:
The President has nominated Frank R. Jimenez, of Florida, to be General Counsel of the Department of the Navy. Mr. Jimenez currently serves as Deputy General Counsel (Legal Counsel) at the Department of Defense. Prior to this, he served as Chief of Staff at the Department of Housing and Urban Development. Earlier in his career, he served as Deputy Chief of Staff and Acting General Counsel in Governor Jeb Bush's office. Mr. Jimenez received his bachelor's degree from the University of Miami and his JD from Yale University. He went on to receive his master's degree from the University of Pennsylvania.
The President has nominated Donald C. Johnson, of Texas, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Equatorial Guinea. Ambassador Johnson, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, most recently served as Senior Negotiator for the Social Charter for the Bureau of Western Hemisphere Affairs at the Department of State. Prior to this, he served as Ambassador to the Republic of Cape Verde from 2002 until 2005 and to Mongolia from 1993 until 1996. Earlier in his career, he served as Senior Advisor to Ambassador Ruth Davis. Ambassador Johnson received his bachelor's degree and JD from Lewis & Clark College. He went on to receive master's degrees from the University of Oklahoma and The George Washington University.
The President has nominated Bruce I. Knight, of South Dakota, to be Under Secretary of Agriculture for Marketing and Regulatory Programs and a Member of the Board of Directors of the Commodity Credit Corporation. Mr. Knight currently serves as the Chief of the Natural Resources Conservation Service at the Department of Agriculture. Prior to this, he served as the Vice President of Government Relations at the National Corn Growers Association. Earlier in his career, he worked as a legislative assistant for former United States Senators Bob Dole (R-KS) and James Abdnor (R-SD) and former United States Representative Fred Grandy (R-IA).
The President has nominated Charles E. McQueary, of North Carolina, to be Director of Operational Test and Evaluation at the Department of Defense. Dr. McQueary is the former Senior Advisor to the Secretary for Science and Technology at the Department of Homeland Security. Prior to this, he served as the Under Secretary for Science and Technology. Earlier in his career, he served as President of Advanced Technology Systems Lucent Technologies/General Dynamics. Dr. McQueary received his bachelor's degree, master's degree, and PhD from the University of Texas, Austin.
The President has nominated Frederic S. Mishkin, of New York, to be a Member of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (1st District), for the remainder of a fourteen-year term expiring January 31, 2014. Mr. Mishkin is currently the Alfred Lerner Professor of Banking and Financial Institutions at Columbia University's Graduate School of Business. He is also the former President of the Eastern Economic Association. Prior to this, he served as a Professor at the University of Chicago, Northwestern University and Princeton University. Mr. Mishkin received his bachelor's degree and PhD from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
The President has nominated Edmund C. Moy, of Wisconsin, to be Director of the Mint, for a five-year term. He currently serves as Special Assistant to the President for Presidential Personnel at the White House. Prior to this, he served as Senior Advisor at Welsh, Carson, Anderson and Stowe. Earlier in his career, he served as the Director of the Office of Managed Care for the Federal Health Care Financing Administration at the Department of Health and Human Services. Mr. Moy received his bachelor's degree from the University of Wisconsin.
The President has nominated Nathaniel F. Wienecke, of New York, to be Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Legislative and Intergovernmental Affairs. Mr. Wienecke currently serves as Deputy Assistant Secretary & Acting Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Legislative and Intergovernmental Affairs. Prior to this, he served as Deputy Assistant Secretary for External Affairs and Communication at the Economic Development Administration at the Department of Commerce. Earlier in his career, he served as Director of Congressional and Intergovernmental Affairs at the Economic Development Administration at the Department of Commerce. Mr. Wienecke received his bachelor's degree from the State University of New York at Oneonta.
The President intends to appoint Lynette Boggs McDonald, of Nevada, to be a Member of the Board of Visitors to the United States Naval Academy, for the remainder of a three year term expiring December 30, 2008.
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the Board of Trustees of the Christopher Columbus Fellowship Foundation:
Jason Edward Allen, of Michigan (In consultation with the Speaker of the House), for the remainder of a six year term expiring January, 19, 2009
William S. Gates (In consultation with the President Pro Tempore of the Senate), of Arizona, for the remainder of a six year term October 19, 2008
The President has designated Paul J. Hutter, of Virginia, to be Acting Assistant Secretary of Veterans Affairs (Policy and Planning).
  