
    Today, President Donald J. Trump announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key positions in his Administration:
Anthony F. Godfrey of Virginia, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary to the Republic of Serbia.
Mr. Godfrey, Class of Minister-Counselor, has served in the U.S. Navy and the Foreign Service for almost 40 years and currently serves as Deputy Chief of Mission at the U.S. Embassy in Moscow, Russia. He has previously served in the U.S Department of State as Director of the Office of Iraq Affairs in the Bureau of Near Eastern Affairs and the Minister-Counselor for Political Affairs at the U.S. Embassy in Baghdad. Mr. Godfrey earned a B.A from the University of California and speaks Russian, Turkish, and Serbo-Croatian.
Leslie Meredith Tsou of Virginia, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary to the Sultanate of Oman.
Ms. Tsou, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Minister-Counselor, is Deputy Chief of Mission at the U.S. Mission in Israel, and is the first Deputy Chief of Mission of the U.S. Embassy in Jerusalem. Previously, she served as Senior Advisor on Iran and Director of the Office of Iranian Affairs at the Department of State. Ms. Tsou was Deputy Political Counselor at the U.S. Embassy in Baghdad, and Director of Arabian Peninsular Affairs on the National Security Staff at the White House. She also served in London, Kuwait City, and Warsaw. Ms. Tsou earned a B.S. from Georgetown University is the recipient of the 2003 Director General Award for Reporting. She speaks Arabic and Polish.

Today, President Donald J. Trump announced his intent to appoint the following individual to a key position in his Administration:
Mr. John DeStefano of Missouri, to be a Member of the J. William Fulbright Foreign Scholarship Board, expiring September 22, 2021.
The following individuals to be Members of the Advisory Committee to the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation:

Donald J. Butt of Colorado, expiring February 19, 2020.
Babette Ann Ceccotti of New Jersey, expiring February 19, 2020.
Guy Pinkman of Nebraska, expiring February 19, 2020.
Regina T. Jefferson of the District of Columbia, expiring February 19, 2021.
Henry Charles Eickelberg of Florida, expiring February 19, 2022.
Jeanmarie Grisi of New Jersey, expiring February 19, 2022.
Jackson Miller of Florida, expiring February 19, 2022.

  