
    Langevin will serve as a Chair of Rhode Island Campaign
The Clinton Campaign today announced the endorsement of Rhode Island Congressman Jim Langevin and named him a Chair of Clinton's Rhode Island campaign. Langevin will serve as a special adviser to the campaign on stem cell research and policy and outreach to people with disabilities.
"I firmly believe that Senator Clinton has the experience, strength and vision to lead our country from her very first day as President," Langevin said. "I have long admired Senator Clinton, from her initial days as our First Lady working to solve our nation's health care crisis to her tenure in the Senate, where she continues to champion the needs of the less fortunate. Now more than ever we need a leader with Senator Clinton's experience both nationally and internationally.
After eight long years of Republican partisanship and divisive politics, our country will benefit from her keen willingness to bring people together on every subject. Finding the common ground on a wide variety of issues is what our nation needs right now to put us back on track both here and abroad. She is the best person to achieve these goals and so much more - including ending our involvement in Iraq and mending our international relationships to achieving energy independence and making health care affordable for everyone."
Langevin was elected to Congress in 2000 and has become a leading advocate for expanding stem cell research, addressing the 2004 Democratic National Convention on the promise of life-saving treatments. Strongly committed to our nation's defense, Langevin serves on both the Committee on Homeland Security and the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, and has pushed for greater funding to develop new defense technologies. He is the first quadriplegic to serve in the House of Representatives.
Prior to his election to Congress, Langevin served two terms as Rhode Island Secretary of State, and before that was a member of the State House of Representatives.
"I deeply admire Jim's tireless efforts to support stem cell research and provide health care for all Americans," Clinton said. "I'm delighted that he will help lead our efforts in Rhode Island."
  