
    Nations that empower women are much wealthier, safer, and much more politically stable. --President Donald J. Trump
EMPOWERING WOMEN TO PROMOTE PEACE: The Trump Administration is releasing new plans to enhance the safety, leadership, and meaningful participation of women in political and civic life worldwide.

Today, the United States Departments of Defense, Homeland Security, State, and the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) released their plans to advance the 2019 United States Strategy on Women, Peace, and Security (WPS).
These plans outline steps the Federal Government is taking to enhance women's role in preventing, resolving, and recovering from conflict.
The United States understands that societies where women are empowered are more stable and peaceful, both economically and politically.
The Trump Administration remains committed to expanding the role of women in the establishment and maintenance of peace, security, and prosperity throughout the world.

SIGNIFICANT PROGRESS: Through each of these plans, the Administration is taking significant steps to promote the safety, leadership, and involvement of women around the world.

The Department of State is modernizing foreign policy and assistance tools to enhance policies and programs to increase women's meaningful participation in decision-making, protect against gender-based violence, and counter violent extremism.
The Department of Defense is promoting the safety of women and girls during conflicts and crises, and improving gender equality and empowerment in the security sector.
USAID is strengthening its work to invest in programs that promote women's leadership and empowerment in order to break through conflicts that hinder developmental progress and threaten global security.
The Department of Homeland Security is working to support the Department of State and USAID in implementing their internationally focused strategies, in addition to other measures.

LEADING THE GLOBAL EFFORT: The Trump Administration is leading the global coalition to advance the role women play in peace and security globally.

President Trump and his Administration are working on a global scale to promote the leadership and meaningful participation of women worldwide.
During his first year in office, the President signed the first-of-its-kind Women, Peace, and Security Act.
In February 2019, the White House launched the Women's Global Development and Prosperity (W-GDP) Initiative, the first whole-of-government approach toward advancing women's economic empowerment.
During a W-GDP delegation to Colombia, Advisor to the President Ivanka Trump announced a new WPS partnership with the Government of Colombia to foster deeper collaboration.
The implementation of the plans released today demonstrates the Administration's strong commitment to remain at the forefront of the effort to advance the role of women in political, civic, and economic life around the world.

  