
    President Donald J. Trump today announced his intent to appoint the following individuals to key positions in his Administration:
Darlene Hutchinson of Alabama to be Director of the Office of Victims of Crime, Department of Justice. Ms. Hutchinson has been a crime victims' advocate more than 20 years, working extensively on legislation and public policy, teaching at police academies, and accompanying victims of all types to court and parole hearings. Ms. Hutchinson's volunteerism includes 10 years with rape crisis centers in Montgomery, Alabama, and Collin County, Texas, as well as seven years as president of a victims' support and advocacy group. Simultaneously, Ms. Hutchinson worked 25 years in publishing, including eight years as the editor of law enforcement publications in Alabama, Washington, D.C., and Texas. Plus, she served nearly 6 years as the Communications and Media Director for the Dallas Bar Association. She has received many awards for her dedication to empowering survivors and protecting their rights, while enhancing public safety. Ms. Hutchinson has played a key role in the development of Alabama's innovative victim notification system, as well as the passage and ratification of a Victims' Constitutional Amendment in Alabama. A native of St. Petersburg, Florida, Ms. Hutchinson holds a bachelor's degree in Journalism from Troy State University.
Hans A. Von Spakovsky of Virginia to be a Member of the Presidential Advisory Commission on Election Integrity.
-------
President Donald J. Trump Announces Nomination of Personnel to Key Administration Posts
President Donald J. Trump today announced his nomination of the following individuals to key positions in his Administration:
Matthew P. Donovan of Virginia to be Under Secretary of the Air Force. Mr. Donovan most recently served as majority policy director for the U.S. Senate Committee on Armed Services, where his responsibilities included advising the chairman of the Committee on broad policy matters related to national security, defense strategy and policy, organization, force structure, modernization, readiness, and regional issues. Mr. Donovan was previously a professional staff member for the committee, where he advised the chairs of the AirLand and Seapower subcommittees on policy and oversight relating to Army, Navy, Air Force, and Marine Corps. He served 31 years in the Air Force, retiring as a colonel, including tours as commander of the U.S. Air Force Officer Training School and an F-15C fighter squadron. Mr. Donovan is a recipient of the Defense Superior Service Medal, the Legion of Merit, and the Defense Meritorious Service Medal, among other military awards and decorations. He is also a Distinguished Graduate of the U.S. Air Force Air Command and Staff College and U.S. Air Force Undergraduate Pilot Training. Mr. Donovan is a graduate of Regis University, Webster University, the U.S. Air Force School of Advanced Airpower Studies, and the U.S. Army School of Advanced Military Studies.
Eric S. Dreiband of Maryland to be an Assistant Attorney General, Civil Rights Division Division, Department of Justice.
Kay Bailey Hutchison of Texas to be United States Permanent Representative on the Council of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, with the rank and status of Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary. Kay Bailey Hutchison has been senior counsel since 2013 at Bracewell, LLP, in Dallas, Texas. During her 20 years a U.S. Senator, she served as a member of the Armed Services Committee and chairman of the Military Construction Subcommittee of Appropriations, where she gained extensive international experience and a deep understanding of NATO. She also served in the Texas state government as an elected State Representative and later State Treasurer. Ms. Hutchison has served as vice chairman of the National Transportation Safety Board. She earned a J.D. from the University of Texas School of Law and a B.A. from the University of Texas.
  