
    President George W. Bush today announced the recipients of the 2001 Presidential Early Career Awards for Scientists and Engineers, the nation's highest honor for professionals at the outset of their independent research careers. Sixty researchers will be honored July 12 in a White House ceremony.
The Presidential Early Career Awards for Scientists and Engineers, established in 1996, honors the most promising young researchers in the nation within their fields. Eight federal departments and agencies, which join together annually to nominate young scientists and engineers whose work is of greatest benefit to the nominating agency's mission, administer the awards. Participating agencies award these young scientists and engineers up to five years of funding to further their research in support of critical government missions.
The recipients of the 2001 Presidential Early Career Awards for Scientists and Engineers, along with their nominating federal department or agency are:
Department of Defense

Dr. Douglas Edward Adams, Purdue University
Dr. Raffaello D'Andrea, Cornell University
Dr. Ronald Paul Fedkiw, Stanford University
Dr. Scott Robert Manalis, Massachusetts Institute of Technology
Dr. Jeffrey Dean Niemann, Pennsylvania State University
Dr. Peter Alexander Traykovski, Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution

Department of Agriculture

Dr. Morgan Grove, Forest Service, Burlington, Vermont
Dr. Daniel Strawn, University of Idaho
Dr. David L. Suarez, Agricultural Research Service, Athens, Georgia

Department of Commerce

Dr. Steven S. Brown, NOAA Aeronomy Laboratory and the Cooperative Institute for Research in Environmental Sciences, Boulder, Colorado
Dr. John M. Butler, National Institute of Standards and Technology
Dr. Thomas M. Hamill, NOAA Climate Diagnostics Center and the Cooperative Institute for Research in Environmental Sciences, Boulder, Colorado
Dr. Eric K. Lin, National Institute of Standards and Technology

Department of Health and Human Services: National Institutes of Health

Dr. Andrew E. Arai, National Institutes of Health
Dr. Kelly N. Botteron, Washington University School of Medicine
Dr. Regina M. Carelli, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill
Dr. Marshall S. Horwitz, University of Washington Medical School
Dr. Jack J. Jiang, University of Wisconsin
Dr. John A. Klingensmith, Duke University
Dr. Michael P. Rout, The Rockefeller University
Dr. Willian R. Schafer, University of California, San Diego
Dr. Melissa J. Spencer, University of California, Los Angeles
Dr. William Martin Usrey, University of California, Davis
Dr. Leslie B. Vosshall, The Rockefeller University
Dr. David Wotton, University of Virginia School of Medicine

Department of Energy

Dr. Ian M. Anderson, Oak Ridge National Laboratory
Dr. T. Vince Cianciolo, Oak Ridge National Laboratory
Dr. Kenneth A. Gall, University of Colorado at Boulder
Dr. Mark C. Herrmann, Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory
Dr. Paul M. Ricker, University of Chicago
Dr. Z. John Zhang, Georgia Institute of Technology
Dr. Jizhong Zhou, Oak Ridge National Laboratory

Department of Veterans Affairs

Dr. Jeffrey R. Smith, VA Medical Center, Nashville, Tennessee
Dr. James A. Tulsky, VA Health Services Research and Development Service Center of Excellence in Durham, North Carolina

National Aeronautics and Space Administration

Dr. James J. Bock, NASA Jet Propulsion Laboratory
Dr. Stephane Coutu, Pennsylvania State University
Dr. James H. Crawford, NASA Langley Research Center
Dr. William Mell, University of Utah
Dr. Mark A. Moline, California Polytechnic State University
Dr. Cheryl A. Nickerson, Tulane University Health Sciences Center

National Science Foundation

Dr. Philip John Bart, Louisiana State University
Dr. Karen Jane Burg, Clemson University
Dr. Brian David Conrad, University of Michigan
Dr. Steven Andrew Cummer, Duke University
Dr. Elizabeth Anna Davis, University of Michigan
Dr. Reginald DesRoches, Georgia Institute of Technology
Dr. Douglas John Emlen, University of Montana
Dr. Michael C. Fitzgerald, Duke University
Dr. Charles Forbes Gammie, University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign
Dr. Javier Garcia-Frias, University of Delaware
Dr. Richard Brent Gillespie, University of Michigan
Dr. Satyandra Kumar Gupta, University of Maryland, College Park
Dr. C. Allan Guymon, University of Southern Mississippi
Dr. Sheena Sethi Iyengar, Columbia University
Dr. Veena Misra, North Carolina State University
Dr. Christine Ortiz, Massachusetts Institute of Technology
Dr. Mona Singh, Princeton University
Dr. Linda K. Weavers, Ohio State University
Dr. Erik Winfree, California Institute of Technology
Dr. Jorge Gabriel Zornberg, University of Colorado at Boulder

  