
    The Rudy Giuliani Presidential Committee today announced that Congressman Dave Reichert is supporting Rudy Giuliani for President of the United States. Reichert will serve as National Co-Chair of Law Enforcement for Rudy and Chair of the Mayor's Washington state campaign.
Congressman Reichert, a former Sheriff and veteran law enforcement officer, said Rudy's experience, leadership, and remarkable record will serve America well. "As someone who has been involved in law enforcement and homeland security issues for over 35 years, I know Rudy Giuliani will be a tough, determined, and principled leader," Reichert said. "He transformed a crime-ridden New York City into the safest large city in the country and has always shown courage in the face of challenges. He'll be a true leader for our country."
"Congressman Reichert is a leader on homeland security issues and a committed public servant," said Mayor Giuliani. "He is a valued addition to our campaign."
About Congressman Dave Reichert:
Congressman Reichert has served the people of Washington state for over 30 years. He is currently representing Washington's eighth Congressional District, serving on the Homeland Security, Transportation and Infrastructure, and Science and Technology Committees. He is the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Intelligence, Information Sharing, and Terrorism Risk Assessment.
Prior to being elected to Congress in 2004, Reichert served as King County's first elected Sheriff. His stint brought a significant drop in violent crime and more than $28 million in federal funding. As Sheriff, he led the task force that solved the largest serial murder case in U.S. history. Reichert first joined the Sheriff's Office in 1972 after serving as a member of the U.S. Air Force Reserve from 1971 through 1976 and on active duty in 1976.
Reichert, a leading advocate against domestic violence, received the prestigious National Sheriffs' Association's "Sheriff of the Year" award in 2004. He served as president of the Washington State Sheriffs' Association and an executive board member of the Washington Association of Sheriffs and Police Chiefs. He is a graduate of Concordia Lutheran College in Portland, Oregon.
  