
    Pool Reports by Tyler Bridges, The Times-Picayune/The Advocate 



Sent:
Reports:




June 29, 2023 14:57 CDT

VP Travel Report #1/New Orleans
VP Harris came onto the stage at the Four Seasons at 2:56 pm. She hugged Thasunda Brown Duckett – president and CEO at TIAA, who is on the stage with her.
They are at the Global Black Economic Forum


June 29, 2023 15:34 CDT

VP travel report #2/New Orleans
The VP began by describing her reaction to today's Supreme Court ruling as "deep disappointment."
"I encourage everyone to read the dissent of Ketanji Brown Jackson."
"She is a beautiful writer who is compelled by logic and a sense of history."
"The disappointment is because this is now a moment where the court has not fully understood the important of equal opportunity for the people of our country."
"It is a complete misnomer this is about color blind when in fact it is about being blind to history, blind to data, blind to empirical evidence about disparities, being blind to the strength that diversity brings to boardrooms and classrooms."
The VP answered questions from Thasunda Brown Duckett about her growing up, her belief in the power of public-private partnerships, about mental health and about what gives her joy (the KBJ dissent).
The event at the Global Black Economic Forum ended at 3:34 pm.
She got a standing ovation


June 29, 2023 18:24 CDT

VP travel report #3/New Orleans
VP Harris was introduced by former Rep. Cedric Richmond, who represented New Orleans in Congress until he resigned in 2021 to work for the White House.
"As great as the Biden campaign was, we don't win the presidency without Kamala Harris," he said. "She is everything the president needs for a partner"
She came out at 6:24 pm.
VP Harris is appearing in the Calcasieu room above the Cochon restaurant in the Warehouse District. There's food to nibble on and drinks.
Gov. John Bel Edwards, the only Democrat elected statewide, said a couple of words. So did Troy Carter, who represents New Orleans and is the only Democrat in Louisiana's congressional delegation.
Also here is Shawn Wilson, who was Gov. Edwards' transportation secretary and is the lone Democrat running to replace Edwards in this year's governor's race. He's a long shot.
There are a couple of local state representatives here, a couple of members of the New Orleans City Council, local businessmen,
We're in a long, rectangular room with brick walls.


June 29, 2023 19:05 CDT

vp travel report #4/new orleans
VP Harris praised the various local political leaders – Gov John Bel Edwards, former Rep Cedric Richmond, Rep Troy Carter (who replaced Richmond), City Council President Helena Moreno, and she also gave a shoutout to DNC Chair Jamie Harrison. She said this was the last of 20 fundraising events they did in June, and it marked the final event for the quarter.
"The governor told me backstage how much he appreciates President Biden because every time we come to Louisiana, we bring so much dough," Harris said.
As she did earlier, she criticized the Supreme Court's affirmative action ruling: "Today is yet another day where we have been confronted with the reality that we can take nothing for granted, and we have to be vigilant."
"We really love our country. We believe in our country," she said.
Harris said the passage of the infrastructure act is "about the creation of jobs, good-paying jobs."
She said with the administration's work, lead pipes are scheduled to be eliminated in 8 1/2 years.
"We'll invest in American jobs and American workforce," she said, giving a plug for Bidenomics. "We'll invest in things like electric vehicles and electric school buses."
Harris criticized the Supreme Court's abortion ban last year, saying the court "took away a constitutional right that had been recognized in America."
She said the administration is fighting book bans and a rollback of voting rights.
"We're in a moment where we are fighting for foundational concepts like freedom, like the freedom to be. All of this is at stake in our country, but we're up for this."
"When democracies are intact, they are incredibly strong," she said. "On the other hand, democracy is very fragile. It will only be strong as our will to fight for it. When I look around this room, I know we are good for the fight."
Harris spoke for 25 minutes until 6:49 pm. Pool was escorted out at that point. She left Cochon at 7:04 pm
That's it for today from steamy New Orleans.



  