
    President Donald J. Trump today announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key positions in his Administration:
R. Clarke Cooper of Florida, to be an Assistant Secretary of State for Political-Military Affairs.
Mr. Cooper currently serves as the Director of Intelligence Planning for Joint Special Operations Command's Joint Inter-Agency Task Force – National Capital Region. A combat veteran, Mr. Cooper's active duty assignments include tours with United States Africa Command, Special Operations Command Africa, Joint Special Operations Task Force Trans-Sahara, and Special Operations Command Central. His background in intergovernmental affairs, foreign policy, counter-terrorism, and rule of law is coupled with his extensive operational experience. Mr. Cooper's civilian and military postings include security cooperation and capacity building in Africa, the Levant, and the Middle East. He served in the Department of State as United States Alternate Representative to the United Nations Security Council and as the United States Delegate to United Nations Budget Committee from 2007 to 2009, Senior Advisor in Near Eastern Affairs Bureau from 2006 to 2007, and Advisor at United States Embassy-Baghdad from 2005 to 2006. Mr. Cooper earned a bachelor's degree from Florida State University.
Daniel N. Rosenblum of Maryland, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Uzbekistan.
Mr. Rosenblum, a member of the Senior Executive Service, is currently Deputy Assistant Secretary of State in the Bureau of South and Central Asian Affairs, a position he has held since 2014. For more than two decades, Mr. Rosenblum has served in senior United States Government positions managing people and resources, leading negotiations, building consensus, and communicating publicly about United States Government policy toward the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, Eurasia, and Central Asia. A Russian-speaker, Mr. Rosenblum has put together billion-dollar aid packages to stabilize and rebuild countries in crisis, organized and led interagency teams in support of counter-terrorism goals, and forged strong diplomatic ties with key United States partners in Central Asia. Previously, he served as a Senior Program Coordinator for the Free Trade Union Institute, a Legislative Assistant to United States Senator Carl Levin, and a Research Assistant in the House of Lords in London, England. Mr. Rosenblum earned a B.A. in history, summa cum laude, from Yale University and a M.A. in Soviet Studies and International Economics from the John Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies. Mr. Rosenblum is the recipient of 8 notable Department of State awards, including a Special Service Award.
Stephanie Sanders Sullivan of Maryland, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Ghana.
Ms. Sullivan, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, has served as an American diplomat since 1986. She is currently Acting Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary for African Affairs in the Department of State, a position she has held since 2017. Previously, she served as the United States Ambassador to the Republic of Congo and Chief of Staff to the Deputy Secretary of State for Management and Resources in addition to other senior-level leadership positions at the Department of State. A seasoned Africa-hand, she previously served in Accra, Ghana as political chief. First-rate leadership and management skills, together with prior collaboration with the United States Agency for International Development and the United States military, will enable her to promote good governance, economic development, and regional security. Ms. Sullivan earned a B.A. at Brown University and a M.S. at the National Defense University. She is the recipient of 20 senior Department of State awards and a Sustained Superior Performance Award from the Peace Corps. Ms. Sullivan speaks French, Lingala, and basic Spanish.
Karen L. Williams of Missouri, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Suriname.
Ms. Williams, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, has served as an American diplomat since 1991. She is currently Senior Advisor, Bureau of Political-Military Affairs, Department of State, a position she has held since 2016. Previously, she was Deputy Chief of Mission at the United States Embassy in Georgetown, Guyana from 2008 to 2010. Ms. Williams has held six overseas diplomatic postings in Afghanistan, South America, Central Asia, and Europe as well serving as Deputy Coordinator in the Counterterrorism Bureau and as the Foreign Policy Advisor to United States Special Operations Command, in Tampa, Florida. She earned a B.A. from Drury College, in Springfield, Missouri and a M.S. from the National War College. Ms. Williams is the recipient of several notable Department of State awards, including the Senior Executive/Senior Foreign Service Award, the United States Special Operations Command Outstanding Civilian Service Medal, and a National Intelligence Meritorious Unit Citation from the Office of the Director of National Intelligence. Ms. Williams speaks Spanish, Russian, and Bosnian.
  