
    NOMINATIONS SENT TO THE SENATE:
Jerome M. Adams, of Indiana, to be Medical Director in the Regular Corps of the Public Health Service, subject to qualifications therefor as provided by law and regulations, and to be Surgeon General of the Public Health Service for a term of four years, vice Vivek Hallegere Murthy.
Luis E. Arreaga, of Virginia, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Guatemala.
Brenda Burman, of Arizona, to be Commissioner of Reclamation, vice Estevan R. Lopez.
Christopher Campbell, of California, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Treasury, vice Cyrus Amir-Mokri, resigned.
Peter B. Davidson, of Virginia, to be General Counsel of the Department of Commerce, vice Kelly R. Welsh, resigned.
Joshua A. Deahl, of the District of Columbia, to be an Associate Judge of the District of Columbia Court of Appeals for the term of fifteen years, vice Eric T. Washington, retired.
Janet Dhillon, of Pennsylvania, to be a Member of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission for a term expiring July 1, 2022, vice Jenny R. Yang, term expiring.
Douglas W. Domenech, of Virginia, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Interior, vice Esther Puakela Kia'aina.
Matthew P. Donovan, of Virginia, to be Under Secretary of the Air Force, vice Lisa S. Disbrow, resigned.
Eric S. Dreiband, of Maryland, to be an Assistant Attorney General, vice Thomas E. Perez, resigned.
William J. Emanuel, of California, to be a Member of the National Labor Relations Board for the term of five years expiring August 27, 2021, vice Kent Yoshiho Hirozawa, term expired.
Gerald W. Fauth, of Virginia, to be a Member of the National Mediation Board for a term expiring July 1, 2020, vice Harry R. Hoglander, term expired.
Susan M. Gordon, of Virginia, to be Principal Deputy Director of National Intelligence, vice Stephanie O'Sullivan.
Jason Kearns, of Colorado, to be Member of the United States International Trade Commission for the term expiring December 16, 2024, vice Dean A. Pinkert, resigned.
Ellen M. Lord, of Rhode Island, to be Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics, vice Frank Kendall III.
Robert L. Sumwalt III, of South Carolina, to be Chairman of the National Transportation Safety Board for a term of two years, vice Christopher A. Hart.
Krishna R. Urs, of Connecticut, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Peru.
  