
    Townhall by Jason Church
My life changed forever on August 23, 2012. I was leading a platoon through the heart of Taliban country in Afghanistan. We walked into an ambush – and an improvised explosive device detonated right underneath me. Next thing I knew, my legs were severed.
By the grace of God, I survived. I've now dedicated my life to defending America outside the Armed Forces. We have to keep our country strong, secure, and prosperous, by defending the principles that have made us the greatest country on earth. Yet our own president – the current commander-in-chief – is weakening America at the worst possible time.
We have to retire Joe Biden and restore an America that's strong and proud. And we must elect the right leaders who believe in our country.
It's painfully clear that Joe Biden is the wrong kind of leader. He surrendered from Afghanistan in the worst possible way, throwing away two decades of sacrifice – including my own. Some of our best and bravest died because of his weakness. America is at more risk of a terrorist attack now than it was when Joe Biden was elected.
The president is tiptoeing around Communist China, too. America needs to stand up to Beijing and show that it can't walk all over us. That kind of strength is the only way to prevent a war that no one wants. By letting China get away with murder, Joe Biden is actually making war more likely.
Why isn't the president tackling these real and present threats? Because he's too busy directing our Armed Forces – the most powerful military in history – to learn about gender pronouns, fight racial grievances, and wage a war against climate change. Our enemies are getting stronger, but the Commander-in-Chief is making our military weaker by the minute. It's a national embarrassment. It has to stop.
The world is a dangerous place. It would be great if both Democrats and Republicans fielded presidential candidates who understand that fact, but in 2024, only the GOP will recognize reality. And while there are plenty of good candidates on the right side of the aisle, as a veteran and advocate for the Armed Forces, it is clear to me that one leader stands tallest, with a combination of proven executive leadership, foreign policy experience, and powerful patriotism.
That leader is Nikki Haley.
I've met Nikki, and I walked away even more impressed than I already was. She's the wife of a combat veteran from Afghanistan, like me. She knows the pride and fear that every military family faces. When Michael Haley was deployed to Iraq, she and her two children said their good-byes under the glare of TV cameras. She could have stopped him from going, since she was the sitting Governor. But she didn't. She knows how essential it is to defend our freedom.
Nikki's experience has made her a tireless advocate for veterans. As governor, she worked hard to make life easier for us, especially as we transition from the military to civilian life. She created programs to help veterans find jobs and cut taxes for military families.
Nikki's equally an advocate for those who serve in uniform today. As America's Ambassador to the United Nations, she defended our military as one of the greatest forces for good in the world. She supports giving our soldiers, sailors, airmen, marines, the support and investment they need to keep us safe, win any war, and most of all, preserve the peace.
Most importantly, Nikki is an advocate for America itself. As UN ambassador, she made sure America was respected again. Nikki told our enemies she was taking names, and she did, time and again. She had the backs of our friends and brought China and Russia to the negotiating table to pass the largest set of sanctions ever against North Korea. She looked evil in the eye and didn't blink.
We need this kind of principled leadership in the White House. And it helps that Nikki has proven executive experience. She faced multiple crises as governor with leadership, decisiveness, and compassion. Like a good commander-in-chief, she always put the people of her state first.
Nikki has made restoring national strength and pride a cornerstone of her campaign. She says she wants America to be "strong and proud, not weak and woke." She's right. And her personal story, as the daughter of Indian immigrants, proves the truth of her statement that America isn't a racist country. We're the greatest country in human history. Nikki knows we can be greater still.
At this very moment, the military can't meet its own recruiting goals, and America isn't fulfilling its rightful leadership. I served and sacrificed to preserve our freedom, not to watch our military be taken over by woke madness. I speak for millions of veterans when I say our country is better than this. That's why I want to see Nikki Haley become the President of the United States. If anyone can bring out the best in our country, it's her.
  