
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
June 1
The President declared a major disaster in the State of Kentucky and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms, flooding, and tornadoes on May 28.
The President declared a major disaster in the State of Minnesota and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by flooding beginning March 14 and continuing.
June 3
In the evening, the President attended a Democratic National Committee dinner at the Jefferson Hotel. Later, he attended a dinner for the Democratic Business Council at the Sheraton Carlton Hotel.
The President announced his intention to nominate Jeffrey Davidow as the Assistant Secretary of State for Inter-American Affairs.
The President announced his intention to nominate Alberto Aleman Zubieta to be Administrator of the Panama Canal Commission.
June 4
In the morning, the President traveled to Princeton, NJ, and he returned to Washington, DC, in the afternoon.
In the evening, the President attended a Democratic National Committee dinner at the Sheraton Carlton Hotel.
The President announced his intention to reappoint Everett Alvarez, Jr., to the Board of Regents for the Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences.
The President announced his intention to nominate Madeleine May Kunin to be Ambassador to Switzerland.
June 5
The President declared a major disaster in the State of North Dakota and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms, flooding, ice jams, and ground saturation due to high water tables on March 12 and continuing.
The White House announced that the President has invited President Glafcos Clerides of Cyprus to Washington for a working visit on June 18.
The President announced his intention to appoint Ned W. Bandler, E. William Crotty, Phyllis Kaminsky, Alice A. Kelikian, Rachmiel Liberman, and Warren L. Miller to the Commission for the Preservation of America's Heritage Abroad.
The President announced his intention to nominate Reginald E. Jones to the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission.
June 6
In the afternoon, the President had telephone conversations with Prime Minister John Bruton of Ireland and Prime Minister John Major of Great Britain.
In the evening, the President hosted a reception for the White House Environment Day Conference in the Green Room.
June 7
The President declared a major disaster in the State of Alaska and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by fires beginning June 2 and continuing.
  