
    Crowds in South Dakota: During the last day of campaigning in South Dakota, Hillary greeted voters across the state. "In Yankton hundreds turned out to see her. In Sioux Falls, campaign officials estimate 3,500 to 4,000 people attended the event at the W.H. Lyons Fairgrounds. Many stood outside listening to the speech on speakers." One supporter said, "I'm really impressed she's taken the time to listen to South Dakotans." Read more.
Automatic Delegate Watch: Yesterday, Tompkins County Democratic Committee Chair and New York automatic delegate Irene Stein announced her support for Hillary Clinton. Louisiana Democratic State Party Chair and automatic delegate Chris Whittington also announced his support for Hillary Clinton yesterday saying: "There is no question that she is the strongest Democrat to go toe-to-toe with John McCain in a general election. It is our responsibility as automatic delegates to choose the candidate we believe best fit to beat Senator McCain. That candidate is Senator Clinton."
An Absentee Ballot in SD: From her hospice bed six weeks ago, 88-year-old Florence Steen marked an absentee ballot for Clinton, fulfilling a life-long dream for a woman born in 1920, months before federal law guaranteed women the right to vote. When Steen died...her vote went with her...[Steen's] dying wish will be multiplied many times in the official vote tally by people who intend to vote or have already filled out absentee ballots for Clinton, with Florence Steen in mind...The first of those votes was the most meaningful. It came from Steen's husband...He decided to do something he hadn't done in years: He voted -- also by absentee ballot -- for Clinton." Read more.
Leading the Popular Vote: According to Real Clear Politics, Hillary's popular vote lead over Sen. Obama has grown with her Puerto Rico victory. She has won 17,916,763 votes compared to 17,723,200 for Sen. Obama when every state that has already voted is included in the tally. Read more.
Previewing Today: Hillary celebrates Election Night at Baruch College in New York City.
  