
    Pool Reports by Haisten Willis, Washington Examiner 



Sent:
Reports:




June 23, 202312:18

VP pool report #1: gather
Hi all, I'm your vice president pooler for today's luncheon, which VP Kamala Harris and Secretary of State Antony Blinken is hosting at the State Department in honor of Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi.
The event will have a spray at the top, with remarks from all three livestreamed on the State Department website and YouTube channel.
It's a muggy, rainy and rather miserable day weatherwise but, as they say, it's dry and 72 degrees inside.
There are American and Indian flags gracing lampposts in the neighborhoods outside of the State Department, and lighted sign trucks driving around touting the partnership between the two countries. "Long Live US-India Strategic Alliance" is among the rotating slogans.
We are gathering now and expecting to go in soon. More to come.


June 23, 2023 12:50

VP pool report #2: Event begins
Pool and other reporters were led into the Benjamin Franklin dining room, passing by Henry Kissinger along the way.
The rectangular room is packed and noisy, and pool spotted Nancy Pelosi and Pramila Jayapal among the crowd.
People clapped as the headliners walked in and the event began at 12:49.
Remarks are streaming.


June 23, 2023 13:19

VP pool report #3: event ends
...Or at least the portion pool was able to view.
Blinken spoke first, followed by Harris and Modi.
All spoke generally about the importance and growing strength of the U.S./India partnership.
Harris honored members of Congress with Indian heritage, and spoke of childhood trips to the country to visit her grandfather along with her mother's move from the country to the U.S. in 1958 to attend Cal Berkeley.
Modi, via the translation, said the friendship between the two nations needs to become even deeper. He also mentioned Harris's mother, saying she sent letters back home in an age when many people did not have phones. He said Harris and her mother are an inspiration for women across the world.
Modi alluded to his 2014 visit, during which Biden was vice president.
All three raised a toast.
Press was hustled out at 1:17.



  