
    Traditionally conservative groups have announced their support for the Bipartisan Infrastructure Framework unveiled yesterday. President Biden's committed to investing in our economy, investing in American competitiveness, American job creation, and solving the climate crisis. The Bipartisan Framework he negotiated does just that, and more, and there's a reason the Framework has received bipartisan praise.
It includes:

The largest investment in bridges since the interstate highway system
The largest investment in public transit ever
The largest investment in passenger rail since the creation of Amtrak
National network of 500,000 electric vehicle chargers
Largest investment in clean energy transmission in American History
Eliminate the nation's lead service lines and pipes

See below for a compilation of support from these groups, and more:
U.S. Chamber of Commerce President and CEO Suzanne Clarke: ""Our nation's economic strength and long-term competitiveness depend on a robust and modern infrastructure. We applaud the White House and G21 group of senators for agreeing on a framework to invest in critical, physical infrastructure. We will continue to work with all members of Congress to get this bill passed and signed into law." [Statement, 6/24/21]
Business Roundtable: "Business Roundtable commends Members of Congress on both sides of the aisle and the White House for their leadership and persistence in achieving bipartisan consensus on a framework for infrastructure legislation. The proposal would generate historic investment in our highways, water, energy and communications infrastructure, which is key to bolstering the economic recovery, sustaining jobs and ensuring the U.S. is competitive over the long run," said Business Roundtable President & CEO Joshua Bolten. "Bipartisan solutions advanced through a regular order process would also help ensure durable policy changes and allow responsible regulatory streamlining. While many details remain to be resolved, this proposal is the right approach. Business Roundtable endorses the bipartisan framework, and we will put the full weight of our advocacy behind advancing it. We are strongly supportive of the scope of this bipartisan framework to ensure our infrastructure can meet the needs and demands of our country and its dynamic economy for generations to come," said Brendan Bechtel, Chairman and CEO of Bechtel Group, Inc., and Chair of the Business Roundtable Infrastructure Committee. "Today's announcement is great news. We look forward to partnering with Congress and the Administration to promote strong support for bipartisan infrastructure legislation." [Statement, 6/24/21]
National Retail Federation President and CEO Matthew Shay: "NRF is encouraged by a bipartisan group of Senators and the Biden Administration finding agreement on a framework for an infrastructure package. Infrastructure has always had strong support across the aisle, so crafting a bipartisan pathway for this essential investment is the surest way to achieve progress. Now more than ever, the U.S. needs significant investment to ensure we remain competitive on a global basis. The retail industry relies on our nation's transportation network to move billions of dollars' worth of merchandise every day to warehouses, distribution centers and stores, and ultimately to consumers' front doors. The ongoing supply chain disruptions that retailers and others are continuing to face highlight the need for investment and reform. As witnessed by the ongoing supply chain challenges facing retailers and others, a major infrastructure package needs to focus on improving the overall system, and prioritize safety, efficiency, resiliency and building for tomorrow's needs. We need to ensure that the legislation includes sustainable funding mechanisms without overburdening the businesses that are leading our economy out of the pandemic." [Statement, 6/24/21]
National Association of Manufacturers President and CEO Jay Timmons: "This is how we build to win. This shows that governing with big ideas is still possible in America. Bold infrastructure investment will secure a better future for our nation and industry and help more Americans reach their full potential. And building it on a foundation of bipartisanship and consensus will help restore faith in our institutions—and prove that America can still bridge party divides to do great things. We look forward to reviewing this proposal with our members as more details are shared so we can provide meaningful feedback to policymakers. And manufacturers commend this group of lawmakers for their commitment to forging this potentially historic agreement." [Statement, 6/24/21]
Consumer Brands Association Vice President of supply chain and logistics Tom Madrecki: "The consumer packaged goods industry (CPG), responsible for one-fifth of all freight in the United States, depends heavily on our nation's highways and railways to deliver essential products to Americans across the country. We are pleased to see that the Biden administration and members of Congress are prioritizing solutions over politics and have come to an initial agreement. We hope that rhetoric becomes reality in the immediate future. The CPG industry needs dependable roads, bridges and railways to ensure people can reliably get the products they need – both now and for the future. America must ready its infrastructure for extreme events like the pandemic, build highway infrastructure to support electric vehicle fleets and expand broadband access to match the country's increasing reliance on e-commerce. As the legislation moves forward, Congress must also consider establishing a federal office of supply chain, as outlined in President Biden's American Jobs Plan, as well as addressing the ongoing trucker shortage with updated driver age and truck weight regulations." [Statement, 6/24/21]
NTCA - Rural Broadband Association Chief Executive Officer Shirley Bloomfield: "If the last year has taught us anything, it is that broadband is vital 21st century infrastructure," said Bloomfield. "On behalf of NTCA's members, the community-based broadband providers who serve the rural areas they also call home, I want to thank President Biden and the bipartisan group of senators for working so diligently on this historic proposal to improve our nation's infrastructure—not just roads and bridges, but digital infrastructure as well. As a final plan is further defined and comes together, I urge policymakers to aim high and invest in future-proof fiber technology built to last, to ensure that funding is directed towards connecting those most in need first and to coordinate funding among the existing federal and state programs that support and sustain broadband deployment and help keep services in hard-to-reach rural areas affordable. We look forward to continuing to work with Congress and the Biden administration to ensure that everyone has meaningful and lasting access to high-quality internet service." [Statement, 6/24/21]
Rural Wireless Association: "Rural Wireless Association commends the work of the Biden Administration and members of Congress across the aisle to reach an agreement on an infrastructure framework that prioritizes reaching high-speed internet to all corners of the country. RWA is supportive of the much-needed investments in state and local broadband infrastructure, 5G spectrum auctions, and rural communities to finally close the digital divide." [Statement, 6/24/21]
  