
    Thank you very much for coming out to make me feel so much at home. Mayor McConn, Senator Bentsen, Congressman Bob Gammage, Congressman Bob Eckhardt, other members of the Texas congressional delegation, NASA guests, and Texas friends, thank you very much.
First of all, I want to express my deep appreciation to all of you for coming out this afternoon to make me feel welcome again to one of the greatest States in the country and a State which exemplifies in the finest possible way all the characteristics that make our Nation the greatest nation on Earth.
I arrived at Carswell Air Force Base this morning and had a meeting with about 6,000 people in Fort Worth for a short speech and a question-and-answer period. This afternoon, as you may know, I'll be making a speech to a group in Houston, and I hope some of you will come to hear me. Tomorrow I go to Beaumont and then on to Fort Hood.
I think all of us who leave Washington and who come to Texas have the same reaction. It's big, it's open, it's progressive, it's friendly, and the people are patriotic and have always been good partners of mine, and I thank you for that.
Ellington Air Force Base is certainly the embodiment of all these characteristics. The people of the United States have a sentimental attachment to Ellington. From its early days as an air base during World War I, long before aviation played a very significant role in the defense of our country, to its latest role as a training site for the most advanced astronauts on Earth, working to make the space shuttle a success, Ellington has made a significant contribution to our Nation's security.
I know that you've been concerned about the future of Ellington. The General Services Administration and the Office of Management and Budget, my own staff, and others have been studying this problem ever since Air Force decided that it no longer to use Ellington on a full-time basis as an air base. Bob Gaminage has kept this issue constantly before us all. [Laughter]
As a result of this study, I'm pleased to be able to announce today that GSA, the United States Government, will not be releasing Ellington for public sale.
There were two significant factors that we had to consider in making this decision. First was my concern about any possible adverse effect on NASA's space program, which is so important to our country and to the world.
NASA has occupied, as you know, an enclosure at the southern end of the Ellington flight line since the time that the site for the nearby Johnson Air Space Center was first selected in the early 1960's. NASA uses those facilities primarily for flight operations, to support the Johnson Center, and for the astronauts proficiency training program. This is a program that our Nation needs to maintain the strength of our country in the space program, and the decision to retain Ellington will allow this important work to continue.
Second is that we need more time to determine the best future use of this very valuable property. Many interests are involved in that decision—the Federal Government and many agencies of the Federal Government, the State, local governments, and also the people of this area, and we must do careful, patient work to plan how best to accommodate all these varying needs.
I've asked the General Services Administration to develop a long-range plan for the proper use of this facility. I've asked that in reaching their decision, they take into consideration not only Federal, State, and local government needs but also the economic and commercial needs of the surrounding community.
I suspect that many of you have been giving this problem some consideration. Bob Gammage, Senator Lloyd Bentsen in particular, have been fighting so hard for your interests and the interests of the Nation in maintaining this base. They join me in asking you to communicate your views, through them, about how this valuable property might best be used.
In the interval, I've asked Jay Solomon, who's the Administrator of the General Services Administration, to manage and to maintain this base.
In my remarks a few hours ago at Fort Worth, I mentioned some of the economic forces that make our Nation strong. Tomorrow, at Fort Hood, where I, as Commander in Chief of the Armed Forces, will see a demonstration of American firepower, I will review some of the superb military capability that protects our place and our peace in the world. The people of this State, this region, and of this base, have always proudly served in that same cause, defending our Nation's interests and our principles whenever they may be threatened.
I'm glad to know that in different ways Ellington Base will continue to serve our country.
Again, I'd like to express my thanks for your presence, my admiration for the great State of Texas, and my hope that I will see many of you this evening. But for the time being now, I'd like to come and shake hands with some of you, to let you know how much I think of you.
Thank you very much.
  