
    Beverly Allen, of Georgia, to be a Member of the National Museum and Library Services Board for a term expiring December 6, 2008, vice Beth Walkup, term expired.
Gail Daly, of Texas, to be a Member of the National Museum and Library Services Board for a term expiring December 6, 2008. (New Position)
Donald Leslie, of Wisconsin, to be a Member of the National Museum and Library Services Board for a term expiring December 6, 2006. (New Position)
Amy Owen, of Utah, to be a Member of the National Museum and Library Services Board for a term expiring December 6, 2008. (New Position)
Sandra Pickett, of Texas, to be a Member of the National Museum and Library Services Board for a term expiring December 6, 2005. (New Position)
Renee Swartz, of New Jersey, to be a Member of the National Museum and Library Services Board for a term expiring December 6, 2007. (New Position)
Kim Wang, of California, to be a Member of the National Museum and Library Services Board for a term expiring December 6, 2004. (New Position)
Romolo A. Bernardi, of New York, to be Deputy Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, vice Alphonso R. Jackson, to which position he was appointed during the last recess of the Senate.
Edward Brehm, of Minnesota, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the African Development Foundation for a term expiring November 13, 2007, vice Cecil James Banks, term expired, to which position he was appointed during the last recess of the Senate.
Charles Johnson, of Utah, to be Chief Financial Officer, Environmental Protection Agency, vice Linda Morrison Combs, to which position he was appointed during the last recess of the Senate.
Ann R. Klee, of Virginia, to be an Assistant Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, vice Robert E. Fabricant, resigned, to which position she was appointed during the last recess of the Senate.
Adam Marc Lindemann, of New York, to be a Member of the Advisory Board for Cuba Broadcasting for a term expiring October 27, 2005, vice Christopher D. Coursen, term expired, to which position he was appointed during the last recess of the Senate.
Cathy M. MacFarlane, of Virginia, to be an Assistant Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, vice Diane Leneghan Tomb, resigned, to which position she was appointed during the last recess of the Senate.
Dennis C. Shea, of Virginia, to be an Assistant Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, vice Alberto Faustino Trevino, resigned, to which position he was appointed during the last recess of the Senate.
Kiron Kanina Skinner, of Pennsylvania, to be a Member of the National Security Education Board for a term of four years, vice Herschelle S. Challenor, to which position she was appointed during the last recess of the Senate.
Deborah Ann Spagnoli, of California, to be a Commissioner of the United States Parole Commission for a term of six years, vice John R. Simpson, termed expired, to which position she was appointed during the last recess of the Senate.
Kirk Van Tine, of Virginia, to be Deputy Secretary of Transportation, vice Michael P. Jackson, resigned, to which position he was appointed during the last recess of the Senate.
Juanita Alicia Vasquez-Gardner, of Texas, to be a Member of the Board of Trustees of the Harry S Truman Scholarship Foundation for a term expiring December 10, 2009 (Reappointment), to which position she was appointed during the last recess of the Senate.
Sue Ellen Wooldridge, of Virginia, to be a Solicitor of the Department of the Interior, vice William Gerry Myers III, resigned, which position she was appointed during the last recess of the Senate.
  