
    Dionel M. Aviles, of Maryland, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Navy, vice Deborah P. Christie, resigned.
Reginald Jude Brown, of Virginia, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Army, vice Patrick T. Henry.
Stephen A. Cambone, of Virginia, to be Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Policy, vice James M. Bodner.
Douglas Alan Hartwick, of Washington, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Lao People's Democratic Republic.
John Lester Henshaw, of Missouri, to be an Assistant Secretary of Labor, vice Charles N. Jeffress.
Aubrey Hooks, of Virginia, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Democratic Republic of the Congo.
Asa Hutchinson, of Arkansas, to be Administrator of Drug Enforcement, vice Donnie R. Marshall, resigned.
Daniel R. Levinson, of Maryland, to be Inspector General, General Services Administration, vice William R. Barton, resigned.
Donald J. McConnell, of Ohio, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the State of Eritrea.
Michael Montelongo, of Georgia, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Air Force, vice Robert F. Hale.
Alberto Jose Mora, of Virginia, to be General Counsel of the Department of the Navy, vice Stephen W. Preston.
Laurie Rich, of Texas, to be Assistant Secretary for Intergovernmental and Interagency Affairs, Department of Education, vice G. Mario Moreno, resigned.
Kirk Van Tine, of Virginia, to be General Counsel of the Department of Transportation, vice Nancy E. McFadden.
Michael W. Wynne, of Florida, to be Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Technology, vice David R. Oliver.
John J. Young, Jr., of Virginia, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Navy, vice Herbert Lee Buchanan III.
James W. Ziglar, of Mississippi, to be Commissioner of Immigration and Naturalization, vice Doris Meissner, resigned.
  