
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
June 5
In the morning, the President went to Camp David, MD.
June 6
In the afternoon, the President returned to the White House. In the evening, he again went to Camp David, and later, he returned to the White House.
June 7
In the morning, the President had separate telephone conversations with Prime Minister Tony Blair of the United Kingdom and President Boris Yeltsin of Russia concerning the situation in the Balkans.
The President announced his intention to nominate Delano E. Lewis to be Ambassador to South Africa.
The White House announced that the President named Roger Ballentine as Deputy Assistant to the President for Environmental Initiatives.
June 8
In the morning, the President had a telephone conversation with President Boris Yeltsin of Russia concerning the situation in the Balkans.
Later, the President met with President Arpad Goncz of Hungary in the Cabinet Room, primarily concerning the situation in the Balkans.
The President announced his intention to nominate David W. Ogden to be Assistant Attorney General for the Civil Division at the Department of Justice.
The President announced his intention to nominate John E. Lange to be Ambassador to Botswana.
The President announced his intention to appoint Gilbert F. Casellas as Co-Chair to the Census Monitoring Board.
The President declared a major disaster in North Dakota and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms, flooding, snow and ice, ground saturation, landslides, mudslides, and tornadoes beginning on March 1 and continuing.
The White House announced that the President extended an invitation to President Hosni Mubarak of Egypt for an official working visit on July 1.
The White House announced that the President sent to Congress the FY 2000 budget amendments to add funding to strengthen Embassy security and to meet the Supreme Court requirements for the 2000 census.
June 9
In the morning, the President met with author and Holocaust survivor Elie Wiesel in the Oval Office concerning Mr. Wiesel's visit to refugee camps in Macedonia and Albania on May 31-June 3.
The President announced his intention to nominate Franz S. Leichter to be a member of the board of directors for the Federal Housing Finance Board.
The President declared a major disaster in South Dakota and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms, tornadoes, and flooding on June 4 and continuing.
June 10
In the morning, the President had separate telephone conversations from the Oval Office with Prime Minister Tony Blair of the United Kingdom; Gen. Wesley K. Clark, USA, Supreme Allied Commander Europe; NATO Secretary General Javier Solana; President Boris Yeltsin of Russia; Prime Minister Massimo D'Alema of Italy; President Jacques Chirac of France; President Jose Maria Aznar of Spain; and Prime Minister Jean Chretien of Canada.
The President announced his intention to appoint John Arendt, Alberto A. Sagues, and Jeffrey Wong to the Nuclear Waste Technical Review Board.
June 11
In the morning, the President traveled to Whiteman Air Force Base, MO, where he was given a tour of a B-2 bomber. Later, the President met privately with 50 base personnel and their families in Building 1117. In the afternoon, he returned to Washington, DC, arriving in the early evening.
In the evening, the President was interviewed in the Oval Office for live broadcast on PBS' "NewsHour with Jim Lehrer."
Later, the President was interviewed in the Roosevelt Room by a Russian television crew for later broadcast in Russia.
The President announced his intention to appoint Thomas E. Britton as Chair and David A. Kessler and Judith R. Olson as members of the Commission on Presidential Scholars.
  