
    The President today announced the appointments of the 1989 - 1990 White House fellows. This is the 25th class of fellows since the program was established in 1964. Fourteen fellows were chosen from nearly 1,000 applicants who were screened by 11 regional panels. The President's Commission on White House Fellowships, chaired by Roger B. Porter, interviewed the 33 national finalists prior to recommending the 14 persons to the President. Their year of government service will begin September 1, 1989.
Fellows serve for 1 year as Special Assistants to the President's principal staff, the Vice President, and members of the Cabinet. In addition to the work assignments, the fellowship includes an education program that parallels and broadens the unique experience of working at the highest levels of the Federal Government. The program is open to U.S. citizens in the early stages of their careers and from all occupations and professions. Federal Government employees are not eligible, with the exception of career Armed Forces personnel. Leadership, character, intellectual and professional ability, and commitment to community and national service are the principal criteria employed in the selection of fellows.
Applications for the 1990 - 91 program are available from the President's Commission on White House Fellowships, 712 Jackson Place, NW., Washington, DC, 20503.
The 1989 - 1990 White House fellows are:
Antonio M. Angotti, of New York. Mr. Angotti is the head of sovereign debt for Security Pacific National Bank, concentrating primarily on the third world debt problem. He has also adapted the debt-for-equity conversion concept to the needs of private nonprofit organizations. Mr. Angotti graduated from the University of California at Berkeley (B.A., 1981) and later undertook graduate studies in foreign policy at Cambridge University and the Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies (SAIS). He was born January 15, 1958 in Whittier, CA.
Thomas P. Bostick, of Fort Leavenworth, Kansas. Major Bostick is presently a student in the U.S. Army Command and General Staff College (CGSC) at Fort Leavenworth, KS, and has been an instructor at the U.S. Military Academy. He graduated from the United States Military Academy in 1978 and earned an M.S. degree in both mechanical and civil engineering at Stanford University in 1985. Major Bostick was born September 23, 1956 in Fukuoka, Japan.
John W. Danaher, of California. Dr. Danaher is a senior medical resident at Stanford University Hospital and has been selected to be chief medical resident in 1990 - 91. He graduated from Trinity College (B.S., 1980) and the Dartmouth Medical School (M.D., 1986). Dartmouth Medical School awarded him the Julian and Melba Jarrett Memorial Award for humanitarian achievement. Dr. Danaher was born September 1, 1958 in Torrington, CT.
Barry R. McBee, of Texas. Mr. McBee is deputy general counsel to Governor William P. Clements, Jr., Austin, TX. He graduated from the University of Oklahoma (B.A., 1978) and Southern Methodist University School of Law (J.D., 1981), where he was editor-in-chief of the law review and Order of the Coif. Mr. McBee was born July 28, 1956 in McAlester, OK.
John McKay, of Washington. Mr. McKay is an attorney with Lane, Powell, Moss & Miller in Seattle, WA. He has served as legal counsel and consultant to numerous political campaigns and currently is the president of the Washington Young Lawyers division. He is the founder and director of the Northwest Minority Job Fair. He graduated from the University of Washington (B.A., 1978) and Creighton University (J.D., 1982). Mr. McKay was born June 19, 1956 in Seattle, WA.
John W. Orrison, of Florida. Mr. Orrison is special assistant to the president, CSX Transportation, in Ponte Verde Beach, FL. He is a scoutmaster and district commissioner for the Boy Scouts, as well as national chairman for the committee on continuing education of the American Railway Engineering Association. He graduated from Auburn University (B.S., 1980) and Harvard University (M.B.A., 1985). Mr. Orrison was born January 15, 1957, in Oak Ridge, TN.
Daniel P. Poneman, of Virginia. Mr. Poneman is an attorney with Covington & Burling in Washington, DC. He is the author of "Nuclear Power in the Developing World," his first book, and "Argentina: Democracy on Trial," which he wrote following a year of study in that country. He has also written articles which have appeared in numerous books, journals, and newspapers. He graduated from Harvard College (A.B., 1978), Oxford University (M. Litt., Politics, 1980), and Harvard Law School (J.D., 1984). Mr. Poneman was born March 12, 1956 in Toledo, OH.
Joyce J. Rayzer, of Kentucky. Ms. Rayzer is deputy director, office of human services, Louisville, KY. She has been an active participant in Teenage Life Choices, an organization established to provide social guidance to adolescents. She graduated from the University of Louisville (B.A., 1974) and the University of Cincinnati School of Planning & Design (B.S., 1986). Ms. Rayzer was born December 30, 1950 in Clarksville, TN.
Wayne Tuan, of New Jersey. Mr. Tuan is vice president, Capital Markets Group, Goldman, Sachs & Company, Jersey City, NJ. During his career, he has worked as an economic consultant for CARE and has assisted in developing programs more directly focused on economic development as compared to economic relief. He graduated from the University of Chicago (A.B., 1981; M.B.A., 1982). Mr. Tuan was born January 19, 1961 in Belleville, NJ.
Leigh Warner, of Connecticut. Ms. Warner is manager, corporate planning, General Foods Corp., White Plains, NY. While managing the Post Natural Raisin Bran business, she established the National Park Enhancement Fund, the first public/private partnership focused on contributing to the entire National Park System. She graduated from Cornell University (B.A., 1976; M.B.A., 1978). Ms. Warner was born October 20, 1955 in Camden, NJ.
Wade T. Dyke, of Ohio. Mr. Dyke is an assistant professor of public administration, school of public administration, at the Ohio State University. He graduated from the University of Wisconsin (bachelor of business administration, 1980), and received a Rhodes scholarship to study at the University of Oxford, where he received an M.A. in politics and economics and a doctorate in politics. Mr. Dyke was born October 11, 1957 in Madison, WI.
Gregory P. Hess, of Florida. Dr. Hess is president and CEO of Emergency Medicine Physicians in Longwood, FL. He graduated from Skidmore College (B.A., 1978) and Albany Medical College (M.D., 1984). Dr. Hess recently took a sabbatical from his emergency practice to complete a fellowship in the field of sports medicine. He is also consulting in practice management and medicolegal issues. Dr. Hess was born October 24, 1956 in Troy, NY.
Michael D. Klausner, of Washington, DC. Mr. Klausner is an attorney with the Washington, DC, office of Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher. Following his graduation from law school, he served as a law clerk to Justice William Brennan of the United States Supreme Court. He was one of the first Americans to teach law in the People's Republic of China. He graduated from the University of Pennsylvania (B.A., 1976) and Yale University (J.D. and M.A., 1981). Mr. Klausner was born December 12, 1954 in Philadelphia, PA.
Robert G. Marbut, Jr., of Texas. Mr. Marbut is president, XIII AAU Junior Olympic Games Committee, San Antonio, TX. Prior to his association with the Games committee, he was the top staff person to the mayor of San Antonio. Robert was a CORO fellow and is very active with dyslexia and learning disorder organizations. He graduated from Claremont Men's College (B.A., 1983) and Claremont Graduate School (M.A., 1985). He was born May 5, 1960 in Savannah, GA.
  