
    "Together, we are building a safe, strong, and proud America." – President Donald J. Trump 
SECURING AMERICA'S BORDERS AND ENFORCING AMERICA'S LAWS: President Donald J. Trump has worked to secure our borders and fully enforce our Nation's immigration laws. 

Despite insufficient resources and congressional obstruction, President Trump has stepped up to improve border security and enact immigration policies based on the rule of law. 
President Trump released an immigration framework which would finally secure our borders and close the loopholes that undermine our immigration system. 
President Trump authorized the deployment of the National Guard to the southern border to support efforts to stop illegal immigration and cut off supplies of illegal drugs. 
President Trump has established immigration enforcement policies based on the rule of law.

From the start of the administration to the end of FY 2017, ICE Enforcement and Removal Operations (ERO) made 42 percent more arrests of illegal aliens compared to the prior year. 


President Trump's Administration has cracked down on the violent MS-13 gang which has sought to take advantage of our porous borders and immigration loopholes.

ICE Homeland Security Investigations (HSI) arrests of MS-13 members and associates increased by 83 percent from FY 2016 to FY 2017. 
Working with partners in Central America, the Department of Justice secured criminal charges against more than 4,000 MS-13 members in 2017. 



HELPING AMERICAN COMMUNITIES HIT BY THE OPIOID CRISIS: President Donald J. Trump's Administration has fought back against the opioid crisis devastating communities.

President Trump launched a nationwide effort to combat the opioid crisis by reducing demand, cutting off illicit drug supplies, and expanding treatment opportunities. 
President Trump signed an omnibus spending bill which dedicated nearly $4 billion to address the opioid epidemic.

The bill included critical funding for addiction prevention and treatment, law enforcement operations, research into alternative addiction treatments, and more. 


The Trump Administration has sought to improve treatment and recovery options for Americans struggling with addiction.

The Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) announced a new Medicaid policy to increase access to treatment options. 
The U.S. Food and Drug Administration has approved new treatments to help those struggling with addiction. 
President Trump's Administration is continually working to cut off illegal drug supplies. 
The U.S. Border Patrol continues to work to stop drug supplies before they reach our communities, seizing more pounds of fentanyl so far in FY 2018 than in all of FY 2017. 
The Department of Justice (DOJ) launched the Joint Criminal Opioid Darknet Enforcement (J-CODE) team, aimed at disrupting online illicit opioid sales. 
President Trump signed the INTERDICT Act into law, enhancing efforts to detect and intercept synthetic opioids such as fentanyl that are being illegally imported. 
DOJ secured it's first-ever indictments against Chinese fentanyl manufacturers. 
A Department of Interior task force combating the opioid crisis in Tribal communities recently seized over 9,000 fentanyl pills and hundreds of pounds of other drugs. 



  