
    IT'S A GREAT PLEASURE for me personally and on behalf of the people of the United States to award this decoration to General White who has served this country, who has served the people of this country for most of his life, whose career has been an example of duty, honor and country, and who has placed his obligations to the national security at the hazard of his life. He is an example to all citizens of those qualities which insure the survival of this country, and will in the future.
Therefore it's most appropriate at the conclusion of this phase of his career, of his life, that he come here to the White House and receive at least a small token of the recognition which is properly his.
We want him to know that in the months that I've been President I have leaned very heavily on his advice. I have found that on all occasions it has been directed to the best interests of our country.
He is succeeded, fortunately, by a man of his own qualities, General LeMay, and he's been associated with distinguished Chiefs of Staff, under the chairmanship of General Lemnitzer, and we are fortunate to have their service continue.
Therefore, I want to read this citation.
"Citation to accompany the award of the Distinguished Service Medal (First Oak Leaf Cluster) to Thomas D. White:
"General Thomas D. White distinguished himself by exceptionally meritorious service to the United States as Chief of Staff, United States Air Force from 1 July 1957 to 30 June 1961. Throughout this time, General White discharged with great distinction the tremendous responsibility of assuring strong, effective deterrent forces in being while simultaneously integrating into the Air Force the new military systems which are the product of modern technology. As airman, strategist and military statesman, General White has contributed immeasurably to the deliberations of the United States Joint Chiefs of Staff and to the senior military councils of the Free World. The selfless dedication, integrity, outstanding foresight and objectivity demonstrated by General White during this period, which have characterized his career of forty-one years in the service of his country, reflect the highest credit upon himself and the United States Air Force."
I present this to you, General, and also this decoration which we'll place right here to go with all the others.
  