
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate three individuals, designate one individual and appoint five individuals to serve in his Administration:
The President intends to nominate Henry Louis Johnson, of Mississippi, to be Assistant Secretary of Education for Elementary and Secondary Education. Dr. Johnson currently serves as State Superintendent of Education for the Mississippi Department of Education. He previously served as Associate State Superintendent for the North Carolina Department of Public Instruction. Throughout his more than 30-year career as a professional educator, Dr. Johnson has served as a public school teacher, a principal and a middle school director. He also worked as Director of Policy Development and Research for the North Carolina School Boards Association. Dr. Johnson received his bachelor's degree from Livingstone College, his master's degree from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill and his Ed.D. from North Carolina State University.
The President intends to nominate Marcus A. Peacock, of Minnesota, to be Deputy Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency. Mr. Peacock currently serves as Associate Director for Natural Resource Programs for the Office of Management and Budget at the White House. He previously served as Subcommittee Staff Director for the U.S. House of Representatives Oversight and Emergency Response Subcommittee of the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure. Earlier in his career, Mr. Peacock worked at Jellinek, Schwartz & Connolly, managing the firm's environmental policy analysis and forecasting division. He received his bachelor's degree from the University of Southern California and his master's degree from Harvard University.
The President intends to nominate Alan Walter Eastham, Jr., of Arkansas, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Malawi. A career member of the Senior Foreign Service, Mr. Eastham currently serves as Country Director for Central African Affairs at the Department of State. He previously served as Special Negotiator for Conflict Diamonds in the Bureau of Economic and Business Affairs. Earlier in his career, Mr. Eastham served overseas as Deputy Chief of Mission in Islamabad, Pakistan and as Counselor of Embassy for Political Affairs in New Delhi, India. He received his bachelor's degree from Hendrix College and his J.D. from Georgetown University.
The President intends to designate Richard A. Wannemacher, of New York, to be Acting Under Secretary of Veterans Affairs for Memorial Affairs.
The President intends to appoint Osborne Day, of the District of Columbia, to be a Member of the Committee for Purchase from People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled, for the remainder of a four-year term expiring December 21, 2008.
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the J. William Fulbright Foreign Scholarship Board, for the remainder of three-year terms expiring September 22, 2007:
John Willard Johnson of Texas
Jan Donnelly O'Neill of Texas
Steven Joel Uhlfelder of Florida
Donald Edward Vermeil of California
  