
    The President today announced his intention to appoint the following individuals to be members of the President's Board of Advisors on Private Sector Initiatives. The Board is comprised of key leaders from the private sector who make recommendations to the President on stimulating partnerships which make the best use of the Nation's resources in all sectors—public, private, and nonprofit.
The Board of Advisors succeeds the President's Advisory Council on Private Sector Initiatives (1983-1985) and the President's Task Force on Private Sector Initiatives (1981-1982). The Board reports to the President through the White House Office of Private Sector Initiatives. The mission of the Board includes raising awareness, stimulating new private sector initiatives, removing barriers to public-private partnerships, and promoting the long-term development of private sector initiatives.
The following are new members:
James L. Ketelsen, of Texas, is chairman and chief executive officer of Tenneco, Inc. He currently serves on the boards of Morgan Guaranty Trust Co., Sara Lee Inc., American Petroleum Institute, and Northwestern University. Mr. Ketelsen was a 1982 recipient of the President's Volunteer Action Award that was given to Tenneco for its corporate community involvement program. Mr. Ketelsen received his degree from Northwestern University.
William B. Walsh, M.D., of Virginia, is founder and president of Project HOPE, a volunteer organization that has lead the way in trying to find some meaningful private sector solutions to world health problems. Dr. Walsh received his medical degree from the Georgetown University School of Medicine in Washington, DC.
Richard Treibick, of Connecticut, is president and chairman of the board of Cable Holdings, Inc., a company engaged in the cable television business. He is president of Alexandra Realty Corp., which handles construction and development of real estate and other projects. He is a member of the New York Association for the Blind, a volunteer organization to help the handicapped. Mr. Treibick attended Cornell University and Columbia University.
Frederic H. Brooks, of Connecticut, is chairman of the board of MacGregor Sporting Goods Co. headquartered in East Rutherford, NJ. He is also president of Connecticut Economics Corp. Mr. Brooks has been involved in several international volunteer activities, including a 1984 trade mission to explore investment and trade with the Government of Haiti. Mr. Brooks received his degree from Columbia University.
  