
    President Donald J. Trump today announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key positions in his Administration:
Luis E. Arreaga of Virginia to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Guatemala. Luis E. Arreaga, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, has served as an American diplomat since 1981. He is currently the Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary in the Bureau of International Narcotics and Law Enforcement Affairs at the Department of State. A former Ambassador, Deputy Chief of Mission, Consul General and senior official at the State Department, Mr. Arreaga possesses cultural and linguistic fluency in the region as well as extensive leadership and interagency management expertise. He has served at eight U.S. Missions overseas and in senior leadership positions at the Department of State. Mr. Arreaga earned a PhD, MS and BA at the University of Wisconsin at Milwaukee. He speaks fluent Spanish and French.
Christopher Campbell of California to be an Assistant Secretary of the Treasury, Financial Institutions. Mr. Campbell currently serves as the Majority Staff Director for the United States Senate Committee on Finance. In his role as Staff Director, Mr. Campbell manages, coordinates and oversees the Senate Republican agenda in the areas of international and domestic taxation, international trade, Medicare, Medicaid, Social Security, and issues involving the U.S. National Debt. Prior to his role on the Committee, Mr. Campbell served as Legislative Director to Senator Orrin Hatch of Utah. His prior private sector work experience includes owning a business strategy consulting firm where he advised fortune 500 companies. Mr. Campbell's prior political work includes managing the successful reelection effort of Senator Hatch in 2000. Mr. Campbell received his MBA from Thunderbird School of Global Business Management in Tempe, Arizona and a BA in Political Science from the University of California at Santa Barbara.
William J. Emanuel of California to be a Member of the National Labor Relations Board for the remainder of a five-year term expiring August 27, 2021. Mr. Emanuel represents employers in labor and employment law matters at Littler Mendelson in Los Angeles. His practice is devoted primarily to traditional labor law and he has litigated many cases before the NLRB. He is a fellow in the College of Labor and Employment Lawyers; a contributing editor of The Developing Labor Law; and a member of the Practice and Procedure Committee and Developing Labor Law Committee of the American Bar Association. He is also a member and past chairman of the Labor and Employment Law Section of the Los Angeles County Bar Association; the Labor Relations Advisory Committee; and the Employers Group Legal Committee. In addition, he is a member of the Labor and Employment Practice Group of the Federalist Society. He earned his JD from Georgetown University and AB from Marquette University.
Ellen M. Lord of Rhode Island to be Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics. If confirmed, Ms. Lord of Rhode Island will serve as Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, & Logistics, and subsequently as Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition & Sustainment, following the mandated reorganization of the Office of the Secretary of Defense, effective February 1, 2018. Ms. Lord previously served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Textron Systems, a segment of Textron Incorporated, where her responsibilities included managing businesses providing hardware and software for unmanned systems, precision weapons, marine craft, armored vehicles, simulation and training, electronic warfare, and intelligence software to the United States Air Force, Army, Marine Corps, Navy, as well as a variety of international customers. Ms. Lord has previously served in several capacities while at Textron Systems, including Senior Vice President and General Manager for Weapon and Sensor Systems, Senior Vice President and General Manager for the AAI Corporation, Vice President of Integration Management, Vice President for Intelligent Battlefield Systems, and Vice President of Strategic Planning. In addition, Ms. Lord served as Director for Commercial Products and General Manager for Bright Trim while at Textron Systems. Prior to this, Ms. Lord worked for over 10 years within Textron Automotive Technology Center in a variety of technical and management roles. Ms. Lord holds an undergraduate degree in Chemistry from Connecticut College, and a master's degree in Chemistry from the University of New Hampshire.
  