
    Distinguished Members o/Congress, ladies and gentlemen:
Let me add a very special welcome to the White House to the members of the board of directors of the National Congress of Hispanic American Citizens who are meeting in Washington this week. I met many of you at the swearing in of Sam Martinez a few weeks ago, and it is good to see you all again.
Today, I look forward to signing House Joint Resolution 92, a measure which emphasizes the need for a sound program of Federal statistics concerned with the millions of Americans of Spanish origin or descent. These Americans represent an important contribution, as well as influence, not only to the enrichment of our society but to its continuing growth and diversity.
Mexican Americans, Puerto Ricans, Cuban Americans, and other Spanish-origin Americans have served this Nation with honor in peace as well as in war. To assist them in participating fully in all aspects of American life, more adequate and accurate information is required. Such information gathered through major statistical programs of the Federal Government can help provide the basis for action to assist Americans of Spanish origin or descent in achieving a better life.
The major Federal statistical agencies in HEW, the Departments of Labor, Commerce, and others already gather and publish much of the data required and have made significant improvement in their efforts to assure that such needed information is available. However, we can do much better, and I applaud the additional impetus that will come as a result of the enactment of this resolution.
Let me thank all of you who have participated in and worked hard to bring this resolution to completion. It is so important that we in government listen to the ideas and concerns expressed from outside government and that we maintain a constant dialog with many parts of our dynamic and diversified society. Your efforts and your dedication move us into a brighter and more satisfying future.
Thank you very much, and I again congratulate those Members of the Congress who have participated in the work on behalf of this resolution.
  