
    Governor Ron DeSantis, accompanied by First Lady Casey DeSantis and their three children, visited Des Moines, Iowa on Saturday to participate in Senator Joni Ernst's Roast and Ride. Governor DeSantis spoke with voters, grabbed ice cream with his kids, delivered remarks about his vision for our Great American Comeback, and was interviewed by Simon Conway of WHO. This trip marked the second visit Governor DeSantis has made to the Hawkeye State this week.
Click HERE to watch DeSantis' remarks
HIGHLIGHTS
On Why He is Running
*"We look to Iowa and Florida to see how it's done, and I think there are a lot of similarities in the success you have had under Governor Reynolds and the success we have had in Florida. Now we don't see that level of success throughout our country. We see the problems day after day, but I think American decline is a choice. And I'm running for president because I think if we choose another path, we can restore American greatness. That is the task before us." *
On Bringing Energy to the Executive and Reversing Biden's Disastrous Economic Policies
"When I tell you I'm going to do something, I will do it. I do not just make idle promises so you think something is nice, and then get into office and forget. No, we set our sights on true north and we keep that compass there. So as president, I will be an energetic executive. I will go on offense. I will lean into all the issues that matter. We will reverse Biden's disastrous economic policies that are causing working people to lose ground and erode their standard of living. We are going to focus on small business, not big business. We are going to make sure we open up American energy production so we can be fully energy independent with our own resources here in the United States."
On Slaying the Deep State
*"We have a responsibility to return this government to its rightful owners, we the American people. And in order to do that, we need to have a cadre of people who share our values and share our vision. Because you can't recycle people in from Washington, D.C, you uproot people from other parts of the country, send them on a mission to go to Washington, D.C and get to work holding this bureaucracy accountable. This bureaucracy has imposed its will on us for far too long, it is time we imposed our will on it." *
On Ending the GOP's Culture of Losing
"There is no substitute for victory. And we need to dispense with the culture of losing that has beset the Republican Party in recent years. Iowa shows it can be done. Florida shows it can be done. We had red waves in 2022. The rest of the country? Not so much."
  