
    The Rudy Giuliani Presidential Committee announced today Sheriff Darren White of Bernalillo County will serve as the campaign's New Mexico State Chairman.
Sheriff White, whose county is the largest in New Mexico, also served as President Bush's state chairman in 2004. He will lead Mayor Giuliani's campaign efforts in New Mexico and help strengthen the state's growing grassroots organization.
"Any campaign would be honored to have Sheriff White leading their efforts in New Mexico. We are thrilled to have him on Team Rudy," said Giuliani's campaign manager Michael DuHaime. "As one of the most well-regarded Republicans in New Mexico, Sheriff White will play an integral role in communicating Rudy Giuliani's optimistic vision for America."
"Rudy Giuliani proved as Mayor of New York City that he can get real results in difficult situations," said Sherriff White. "We need that same leadership in our next President. It will be a privilege to work to elect Rudy Giuliani as our next President."
About Sheriff White
Darren P. White began his second term as the Sheriff of Bernalillo County on January 1, 2007. Sheriff White is a former Cabinet Secretary for the New Mexico Department of Public Safety and is a nationally known public safety advocate. He has a diverse law enforcement background, having served with both the Albuquerque and Houston police departments, where he was named an honor graduate from both academies.
Before his start in law enforcement, Sheriff White served in the United States Army as a member of the elite 82nd Airborne Division.
Sheriff White's honors include the Jefferson Award from the coveted American Institute for Public Service in 1983. In 2006, following an eight-month search involving input from more than 1,400 business, political, and civic leaders, the Aspen Institute recognized Sheriff White as one nation's top 24 young elected officials and selected him for a new fellowship program honoring public leaders the Aspen Institute has identified as "the true rising stars" of American politics
Sheriff White made preventing and reducing DWI a top priority in Bernalillo County. His Department has undertaken aggressive DWI enforcement operations. Sheriff White has targeted fugitives from justice by holding regular warrant sweeps which result in hundreds of arrests throughout the calendar year.
Sheriff White also lead a team of deputies and firefighters to rescue survivors and restore public safety for the citizens of New Orleans in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina.
  