
    MANCHESTER, NH-- U.S. Senator John McCain's campaign today announced the New Hampshire leadership of "Citizens for McCain," a national, grassroots organization dedicated to rallying Americans of all political parties behind John McCain's candidacy. The Granite State group will continue the grassroots effort to recruit and energize Democrats and Independents in support of John McCain.
Democrats Jim McConaha and Valery Mitchell, of Concord, have joined the group and will serve as co-chairs of "New Hampshire Democrats for McCain." Independents Marcia Moran, of Concord, and David Lee, of Londonderry, will serve as co-chairs of "New Hampshire Independents for McCain."
An appointee under former President Bill Clinton and Governor Jeanne Shaheen, McConaha said, "This is the most important job in the world. We need a leader of proven competence, tested judgment and substantial experience in the modern world and, obviously, that is John McCain."
Mitchell, a lifelong Democrat, has worked with many presidential and state campaigns. She added, "It was not easy to step away from my party in the McCain-Obama race, but I want a president whose judgment we know and trust, and a leader who will do what is in the best interest of our country without regard to politics or ideology."
Lee added, "We need a president who has a proven record of bringing members of both parties together to affect real change. McCain has that record. I've been active in New Hampshire politics for many years, frequently on the side of the Democrats, but in this year's presidential race, there's no question that John McCain is the candidate with the experience and the knowledge to lead the nation."
"New Hampshire voters are famous for evaluating candidates based on their leadership credentials, not their party," said Marcia Moran. "I'm supporting John McCain because he has repeatedly stood up to the special interests in Washington to do what's right for America. Principled and courageous, John McCain will unite our country to confront difficult challenges."
  