
    Prominent Democratic leaders endorse Edwards for president
Austin, Texas – As Senator John Edwards visits Austin today to attend a "Small Change for Big Change" grassroots fundraiser, the John Edwards for President campaign announced that 20 Texas Democrats are endorsing Edwards for president, including several members of the Texas State House of Representatives. These Democrats join Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson, Congressman Charlie Gonzalez, and former Congressman and 2006 Democratic Gubernatorial Nominee Chris Bell, all of whom have previously announced their support for Senator Edwards.
Former Congressman Max Sandlin said, "John Edwards is a rare candidate - he has both the courage to stand up for the core values we believe in as Democrats, and the ability to compete everywhere in the country, including here in Texas."
"John Edwards has spent his life speaking out for those without a voice," said Texas House Democratic Leader Jim Dunnam. "I am proud to support a Democrat who will fight for working Americans and bring about real change in our country."
"We need a Democrat in the White House in 2008 to fix the damage done by the Bush Administration and put our country back on track," said state Representative Garnet Coleman. "John Edwards is the best Democrat to take back the White House and restore America to its place of leadership."
"John Edwards is a true leader who can bring together all Americans," said state Representative Trey Martinez Fischer. "He has bold plans to transform our country—plans to end the war in Iraq, guarantee health care for every American, halt global warming and strengthen the middle class."
"I encourage all Texans to join me in supporting a great Democrat, a great husband, great father, and most of all a great American—John Edwards for president," said Charles Soechting, the immediate past chair of the Texas Democratic Party.
Current Elected Officials
Dallas Mayor Laura Miller - Dallas
State Senator Kirk Watson - Austin
State House Democratic Leader Jim Dunnam - Waco
State Representative Trey Martinez-Fischer, Vice Chair of the Mexican American Legislative Caucus - San Antonio
State Representative Garnet Coleman, Immediate Past Chair of the Texas Legislative Black Caucus & Chair of the Texas Legislative Study Group - Houston
State Representative Joe Farias - San Antonio
State Representative Stephen Frost - New Boston
State Representative Mark Homer - Paris
State Representative Paula Pierson - Arlington
State Representative Craig Eiland - Galveston
Former Elected Officials:
Former U.S. Representative Max Sandlin - Marshall
State Senator Babe Schwartz - Galveston
Other Prominent Texans for John Edwards:
Charles Soechting - Former Texas Democratic Party Chairman - San Marcos
Hank Gilbert - 2006 Commissioner of Agriculture Democratic Nominee - Tyler
Jim Marston - Director, Environmental Defense Texas * - Austin
Enrique Moreno - El Paso
Frank Herrera - Former Chair, Mexican American Legal Defense and Education Fund * - San Antonio
Mikal Watts - Possible 2008 Democratic Candidate for U.S. Senate - San Antonio
Liz Carpenter - Austin
Karen Dulaney Smith, Austin Independent School District Board of Trustees - Austin*
* For Identification Purposes Only
  