
    Pool Reports by Michael Shear, The New York Times



Sent:
Reports:




June 17, 202009:17

In-town Pool Report #1 
Good morning.
I am your in-town pool reporter today. The pool had temperature screenings at the NW gate and has just completed our daily COVID-19 test in lower press.
The only thing on the schedule today — other than the expected torrential rain — is a 2 pm event on suicide prevention efforts for veterans. That is currently scheduled for an outside event in the Rose Garden, though your pool suspects that it may be moved inside to accommodate the aforementioned rain chances.
I will let you know if anything else develops here.
Stay safe.



June 17, 202011:14

In-town Pool Report #2 - Kayliegh breifing added 
Just a quick heads-up that the White House just put out updated guidance for a briefing by the press secretary at 1pm today.
Also, Kellyanne Conway gaggled for about 10 minutes in the driveway. No major news, but I will send quotes along in a little bit.
Also, the White House says the Rose Garden event on veterans will now take place in the East Room, presumably because of the rain, which has started now.



June 17, 202011:36

In-town Pool Report #3 - Kellyanne gaggle 
Kellyanne Conway, the president's counselor, gaggled with reporters for about 10 minutes just before 11 am this morning. No major news, but she touched on a number of subjects. Here are some highlights, and feel free to contact me if you want a recording.
* On the Bolton book and the effort to keep it from being published:
"It's kind of remarkable to have a book be published while people are still in office."
(spoken to reporters): "It is actually precious and adorable, how pro-John Bolton you all are now. It's really cute."
"I would just think that it's very important to the nation's security, not even the President himself, but for the presidency itself and the nation's security to make sure the review processes have been completed."
"I know that you're all for fact checking so I hope you'll apply that to all types of work."
* On Iowa polling showing POTUS falling behind Biden in the state
"I think what you're going to see in many of these swing states is what we saw in 2016, which is Biden and Trump in relatively close proximity to each other, under 50% in most of these swing states."
* On whether POTUS was affected by meeting with the families of victims yesterday.
"The President is always molded by the people he meets, and that's why he ran for president , is president. The forgotten man, forgotten woman. I would put many of those families in those categories because they feel like they have not gotten the visibility that they and their loved ones deserve. Their loved ones are victims of senseless tragedies."
"The President took it very far yesterday in an executive order -- as far as an executive can. Now it goes to the legislature. I'm very heartened by what I see in fairly quick action for a Congress that that hasn't acted very speedily and and very collaboratively."
* On whether there is any consideration being given to canceling or changing the Tulsa rally.
"The president's campaign, I read, has taken precautions but giving everybody a mask, hand sanitizer, a thermometer check."
"People are going to go if they feel comfortable going. So we always tell people, here's the guidance, feel comfortable, don't feel comfortable. We also know that people don't want to be locked down forever. We see them peacefully protesting. We see folks doing many things."
POTUS IS "Very excited to get back on the road and connect directly with people. I'm sure there are those who will never want to do that again because obviously that is the gold standard and his stock and trade for him."
"Contrast that to Joe Biden in the well of the United States Senate in 1993 saying these are predators among us who must remain in jail."
* On whether every conversation POTUS has is classified.
"The president is probably thinking about particular specific conversations that were had with foreign leaders, where also, in preparation for those meetings, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, you have access to classified information."
* On whether POTUS will continue to talk to the families of victims of police violence.
"Absolutely. Those families will continue to be part of the conversation."



June 17, 202011:58

In-town pool report #4 - lunch lid at 11:30 
Hi all. Your pooler forgot to send a report that the White House called a lunch lid from 11:30 to 12:30. Apologies.



June 17, 202013:13

In-town pool report #5 -- 2 minute warning for the briefing. 
The WH just gave a two-minute warking for the press secretary briefing



June 17, 202013:16

In town Pool Report # 6 -- briefing begins 
The press secretary briefing began at 1:15 pmIt is being streamed here: https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44f...



June 17, 202013:52

In-town pool report #7 - President Duda visit 
After the briefing, the press secretary told your pooler that the White House is confirming a visit next week from Polish PresidentAndrzej Duda. She said the visit will take place at the White House on June 24. She added that POTUS is eager to welcome the Polish president at a "critical time as we reopen our country."
A formal announcement is coming soon, she said.



June 17, 202014:00

In-town pool report #8 - Answers to colleague questions
During the briefing, Kayleigh declined to take two questions that your pooler had received from reporters who are not able to attend the daily briefings because of coronavirus restrictions. I was able to find her after the briefing and ask the questions.
The first one, from Emilie Munson, was: In the light of Trump's new executive order on policing, will the White House make the Department of Justice collect data from state and local police departments on deaths in police custody as required by the Death in Custody Reporting Act?
Kayleigh referred the question to the Justice Department, saying that it would be up to the Justice Department to implement that. I pressed her on the fact that Congress already passed legislation requiring the data to be collected, but that it hasn't been done regularly. She again referred me to the Justice Department.
The second question, from Anthony Leake, was: "Why did the President not invite the Floyd Family as well as Eric Garner's mother to the meeting yesterday. Eric Garner's mother has championed and lobbied for major Police Reform?"
Kayleigh said that the participants in the meeting with POTUS on Tuesday were "clients of Lee Merrit. It was his clients." I was not able to follow up on that answer.
I hope that is helpful. Apologies for not being able to get those asked for the cameras.
Mike



June 17, 202014:21

In town pool report #9 - veterans event begins. 
POTUS arrived in the East Room for the event on veterans and mental health at 2:21 pm. The event is being live-streamed but as your pooler I will also provide highlights and any news.
About 40 guests and staff are sitting in chairs set apart by about three feet each. I counted about a dozen people wearing masks (not counting journalists and a few secret service agents who were wearing them). Among the people in the room is Vice President Mike Pence, in the front row. He is not wearing a mask.
The event is beginning.



June 17, 202014:25

In-town pool report #10 
The White House passes along the following:
Today, President Donald J. Trump will announce the Roadmap to Empower Veterans and End a National Tragedy of Suicide (PREVENTS), developed by an interagency task force established under Executive Order 13861.Veterans die by suicide at higher rates than the general population. In 2017 alone, 6,000 veterans took their lives, approximately 20 a day. In an unprecedented effort to combat this devastating national tragedy, the PREVENTS roadmap puts forth 10 recommendations to ensure effective coordinated action among federal agencies and public organizations, and establishes a new public health campaign to improve veterans awareness of mental health resources available around the country.America's veterans represent the very best of our Nation and President Trump remains steadfastly committed to supporting them.
The following individuals are expected to attend:
The White HousePresident Donald J. TrumpVice President Mike PenceSecond Lady Karen PenceRuss Vought, Acting Director of the Office of Management and BudgetDr. Kelvin Droegemeier, Director of Office of Science and Technology PolicyBrooke Rollins, Assistant to the President and Acting Director of the Domestic Policy CouncilTim Pataki, Deputy Assistant to the President and Director of the Office of Public LiaisonMark Vandroff, Deputy Assistant to the President and Senior Director for Defense Policy
Trump AdministrationSecretary Robert Wilke, Department of Veterans AffairsSecretary Eugene Scalia, Department of LaborSecretary Alex Azar, Department of Health and Human ServicesSecretary Ben Carson, Department of Housing and Urban DevelopmentSecretary Betsy DeVos, Department of EducationDr. Jerome Adams, Surgeon General of the United StatesWill Bushman, Deputy Under Secretary of Defense and for Personnel and Readiness, Department of DefenseEric Eversole, Hiring Our Heroes, U.S. Chamber of CommercePamela Powers, Acting Deputy Secretary, Department of Veterans AffairsPaul Dabbar, Under Secretary for Science, Department of EnergyDr. Elinore McCance-Katz, Assistant Secretary for Mental Health, Department of Health and Human ServicesTara Sweeney, Assistant Secretary for Indian Affairs, Department of the InteriorBrooks Tucker, Acting Chief of Staff, Department of Veterans AffairsRichard Stone, M.D., Executive in Charge, Veterans Health Administration, Department of Veterans AffairsDr. Lynda Davis, Chief Veterans Experience Officer, Department of Veterans AffairsDr. Barbara Van Dahlen, PREVENTS Executive DirectorLiz Barnes, PREVENTS Deputy DirectorKaren Migdail, PREVENTS Senior Communications AdvisorJason Beardsley, MSO/VSO Liaison, Department of Veterans AffairsChaplain Juliana Leshar, National Director of Chaplain Service, Department of Veterans AffairsCheryl Mason, Chairman of the Board of Veterans' Appeals, Department of Veterans AffairsConrad Washington, Director of Faith and Opportunity Initiatives, Department of Veterans Affairs
External ParticipantsChad Hiser, Guest Speaker, Wounded Warriors ProjectMarquis Barefield, Disabled American VeteransBob Carey, The Independence FundJoe Chenelly, AMVETSBrian Dempsey, Wounded Warrior ProjectPeter Gaytan, Paralyzed Veterans of AmericaB.J. Lawrence, Veterans of Foreign WarsJared Lyon, Student Veterans of AmericaPhilip Mabe, Tragedy Assistance Program for SurvivorsWilliam McCabe, The Retired Enlisted AssociationChris Meek, Soldier StrongChanin Nuntavong, The American LegionJose Ramos, Wounded Warrior ProjectKeith Reed, Air Force Sergeants AssociationSarah Verardo, The Independence FundRichard Glickstein, Veteran AdvocateChad Robichaux, Mighty Oaks ProgramArthur Schulcz, International Conference of Evangelical Chaplains EndorsersJeremy Stalnecker, Mighty Oaks Programs



June 17, 202014:53

In town pool report #11 — event over, no news or questions 
The veterans event ended and POTUS left the East Room at 2:51 pm. POTUS did not take any questions. There was no major news made, but I will send highlights of the event as quickly as possible.



June 17, 202015:23

In-town pool report #12 -- highlights from veterans event 
POTUS began with remarks about the Charleston shootings, which happened five years ago, calling the attack "a despicable act of evil."
POTUS mostly stuck to the script, thanking people for making progress on the issue of suicide among veterans. (He briefly talked about immigration and the wall, which you will see below.) here are some highlights:
"Today we're unveiling our roadmap to empower veterans, and end the national tragedy of suicide, tremendous problem, tremendous tremendous problem. My administration is marshaling every resource to stop the crisis of veteran suicide and protect our nation's most treasured heroes. They've been through so much."
"After years of shameful scandal and neglect under the Obama Biden administration and scandal and neglect it was. We have fundamentally reorganized the VA from top to bottom."
"But our border is now as secure as it's been in many, many years. The wall is now up to mile 212."
"Following the ambitious roadmap, the task force developed over the last year, you'll see things happening that nobody would have ever thought even possible."
He noted that the PREVENTS task force would be conducting a public relations campaign, that he called a "historic campaign" that will "mobilize every sector of American society to encourage heroes in need, empower them with the best prevention practices that help every veteran thrive in their lives after service."
"We're also launching a national research strategy that the PREVENTS office will work with the greatest scientific minds across our nation to evaluate research to better understand the trauma service members face. They face tremendous trauma."
At one point, POTUS called up several speakers to make comments. They spoke from a separate lectern set up to POTUS's left, about 30 feet away
Chad Hiser, from the Wounded Warriors Project:
"I returned home feeling guilty for surviving, shame feeling like I hadn't done enough. The war was still in my mind. I was detached, physically, emotionally, and spiritually. I was angry and isolated from the world, including my family. Just one year after leaving the Marines, I decided to return to military service, this time in the United States Coast Guard, seeking a last ditch effort to cope with the pain and regain my purpose in life. Unfortunately, my conditioning the worst in 2005. I attempted suicide."
Karen Pence:
"We're all dealing with stress right now," adding: "It's my goal to help take away the stigma of mental health."
Secretary Robert Wilke, Department of Veterans Affairs:
"Mr. President, that is what we're going to send to the American people today to those who are in uniform, let us know that we will not fail, nor forsake, people in the United States who have always carried on without question, our freedom on their shoulders. So Mr President, I thank you very very much."
As always, check quotes against transcript.



June 17, 202017:20

In town pool report #13 - Travel/Photo lid 
The White House called a travel / photo lid at 5:19 pm.
Good night everyone. Stay safe.




  