
    Mr. General Secretary, all of our distinguished guests from the Soviet Union, and ladies and gentlemen:
Just last Monday, when you, Mr. General Secretary, arrived in Washington, I made the remark that in addition to the millions of people in the Soviet Union and in the United States who were seeing us on television, that millions more throughout the world were watching what we might do this week.
As we have just completed our visit by signing this joint communiqué, I think we can say with great satisfaction that in our actions this week, we have not disappointed the hopes of the people of the world.
First, we have built on the strong foundation that we laid a year ago in the relations between our two countries in adopting a number of significant agreements for cooperation. We have also built on the beginning that we made a year ago with regard to the limitation of nuclear arms. But the most significant agreement was the one we signed Friday, which was truly a landmark agreement, not only between the relations of our countries but also a landmark agreement for the whole world.
When the two strongest nations of the world agree not to use force or threats of force in their relations with each other, and also not to use force or threats of force in their relations with other nations, this action indeed gives profound hope to those throughout the world who want peace. Because there can only be true peace in the world in which the weak are as safe as the strong, and by our agreements, we have dedicated ourselves to building that kind of world.
In speaking of this, I think, too, that the agreement that we have signed, all of the agreements, take on added meaning because of the personal relationship that we developed a year ago and that we have built on this year.
All who have studied history know that an agreement means nothing unless there is the will of the parties to keep it. And, Mr. General Secretary, as you know from our long talks at Camp David, in Washington, and here at San Clemente, we have the will to keep all the agreements we have made, and particularly the one that we signed Friday.
And having that will, it means that we are dedicating ourselves to build a new era not only of peace between our two great countries but of building an era in which there can be peace for all the people of the world.
When you return to the Soviet Union, I would appreciate it very much if you would extend to the millions of people in your country the good wishes, the friendship of the millions of people in the United States, because I am sure that there are many Americans who would like personally to give that message to your people. And you can tell them that the American people--not just the American leaders but the American people--welcome the opportunity to work with the people of the Soviet Union to build peace between each other and peace for the world.
  