
    President Bush to Nominate Three Individuals and Appoint Four to Serve in His Administration
President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate three individuals and appoint four individuals to serve in his administration.
The President intends to nominate Mark Moki Hanohano to be United States Marshal for the District of Hawaii. Hanohano has served as Deputy Sheriff with the Honolulu Sheriff's Department since 1985. Previously he was a School Security Attendant at Aiea Intermediate School and Kalaheo High School. He is a graduate of Mid-Pacific Institute.
The President intends to nominate Michael Lee Kline to be United States Marshal for the Eastern District of Washington. Kline has served with the Adams County Sheriff's Office since 1975, and was elected Sheriff in 1995. Before joining the Adams County Sheriff's Department, he was Deputy Sheriff with the Kootenai County Sheriff's Office in C'ouer D'Alene, Idaho. He received an Associates Degree from Spokane Community College.
The President intends to nominate Charles Aaron Ray to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Kingdom of Cambodia. A career member of the Senior Foreign Service, Ray is currently a student in the Senior Seminar at the National Foreign Affairs Training Center. His most recent assignment was as the first U.S. Consul General in Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam. His other past assignments include service in Consular Officer in Guangzhou, China, Special Assistant to the Director of the Office of Defense Trade Controls in the Bureau of Politico-Military Affairs, and Deputy Chief of Mission in Freetown, Sierra Leone. Before joining the Foreign Service, Ray served in the U.S. Army from 1962 to 1982, with tours of duty in Europe, East Asia and Southeast Asia. He received a bachelor's degree from Benedictine College and Master's degrees from the University of Southern California, the National War College and the National Defense University.
The President intends to appoint the following four individuals to serve as members of the President's New Freedom Commission on Mental Health:
Stephen Wright Mayberg of California, has served as the Director of the California Department of Mental Health since 1993, and is a psychotherapist in private practice. Before joining the California Department of Mental Health, Mayberg served with the Yolo County, California, Department of Mental Health, first as Deputy Director from 1981 to 1992, and as Director from 1992 to 1993.
Nancy Carter Speck is a psychologist in private practice in Nacogdoches, Texas. From 1974 to 1998, Speck was a professor at Stephen F. Austin State University, while also holding several administrative positions including Associate Vice President for Academic Affairs, Director of Development, Vice President for University Advancement.
Larke Nahme Huang is the Director of Research at the Center for Child Health and Mental Health Policy and a Senior Policy Associate at the National Technical Assistance Center for Children's Mental Health at Georgetown University Center for Child and Human Development at Georgetown University.
Norwood Wilbert Knight-Richardson is the Medical Director at CareMark Behavioral Health Services and an Adjunct Associate Professor of Psychiatry and Division Chief of Organizational Psychiatry at Oregon Health Sciences University in Portland, Oregon. He was previously the President and Chief Medical Officer of Continuum Healthcare Services in Houston and Clinical Professor of Psychiatry at the University of Texas Medical School in Galveston, Texas. From 1989 to 1992, Knight-Richardson was the Chief Psychiatrist of the State of Alaska and the Director and Chief Executive Officer of the Alaska Psychiatric Institute.
  