
    I have repeatedly said that America's middle class deserves a tax cut, and we're providing a significant tax cut to America's working families with children through the largest ever child tax credit.
Not only did the American Rescue Plan increase the child tax credit to $3,000 for families whose children are between 6-17 years old and $3,600 for families with children under 6 years old, it allows half of that tax cut to be paid to families in advance through a monthly check or direct deposit. This year, a family with two young children would receive a tax cut of $7,200, with a monthly payment of $600 starting in July. Almost all families who have filed taxes in the last 2 years will receive this tax cut automatically.
This tax cut will give our Nation's hard-working families with children a little more breathing room when it comes to putting food on the table, paying the bills, and making ends meet. Nearly every working family with children is going to feel this tax cut make a difference in their lives, and we need to spread the word so that all eligible families get the full credit.
Just as Americans came together in support of the American Rescue Plan, we're asking Americans to come together to build support and awareness for this vital tax relief for families, to help us extend it for years to come, and to ensure we get all children in our Nation's low-income families signed up this year.
If we're able to get every family signed up, it will mean significant tax relief for America's working families and will help bring us even closer to cutting child poverty in half. That is why we have designated today, June 21, as Child Tax Credit Awareness Day. Across the Nation, organizations that advocate for children, faith-based organizations and elected officials are holding events, training volunteers, announcing strategies to sign up the lowest income families, and using social media to explain how the child tax credit will cut child poverty and why we must extend it through the American Families Plan.
To help or sign up, please go to childtaxcredit.gov. It provides simple, useful information, in both English and Spanish, as well as a link to help families sign up.
For parents working to make ends meet and raise their children with greater security, dignity, and opportunity, help is here. On this Child Tax Credit Awareness Day, let us all work together to make sure that the help that is here reaches those who most need it, this year and for years to come.
  