
    President Mitterrand. Ladies and gentlemen, today we have received the President of the United States, Mr. Ronald Reagan. Mr. Reagan has already been in France in his personal capacity—on a personal visit— but it's the first time that we've had the very great pleasure of receiving here officially the first of the Americans.
We have had an exchange of views during this lunch, which has been a friendly occasion, but it has also been a working lunch. And we have been accompanied by our aides. And I wish simply to say that-for France, I want to say this to the French press and also to the foreign press—that we are extremely happy that this day should have come about. For France it is a great event, a great day that we should have in our midst Mr. Ronald Reagan.
Now, tomorrow the work of the summit itself will be beginning, but today is truly a Franco-American event—with this lunch today, contacts between people in positions of responsibility on both sides, and tonight a dinner at the United States Embassy.
My purpose in speaking right now is simply to say how very warmly we wish to welcome in our midst Mr. Ronald Reagan, President of the United States. Thank you.
President Reagan. Well, Mr. President, thank you very much.
Ladies and gentlemen, as the President has said, we resumed here discussions that began a few weeks ago in Washington. We touched upon the areas of tension that concern us both, the Falklands, Central America, the Middle East. We did not get into heavy discussions, because those are reserved for the meetings at Versailles that begin tomorrow, when we will be there with our colleagues from the other nations in the alliance and the other industrial nations.
So, this has been a combination of a very happy resumption of a personal friendship, as well, as I say, just touching upon some of the events which will be thoroughly discussed in the next 2 days, 3 days.
And I just want to take this opportunity to thank President Mitterrand and the people of France for the warm hospitality that we have enjoyed and are enjoying here and thank him for hosting again the eighth in this series of meetings between the leaders and representatives of the industrial nations.
So, merci beaucoup.
  