
    The President. Now, let me just say at the outset, what we are here to talk about is health care reform. We have some ideas up there that we feel make a great deal of sense. I know that some of you all have a program. I keep reading that the Democrats say they want to make a political statement before the convention. Far more important than a political statement, it seems to me, is getting something done that will allay the fears that people have and help in the health care reform area.
We've got a good program for insurance. We'll protect the quality of American health care. And what I'd like to get from everybody here today is how you feel we can get it done. The small market reforms are good; the increased tax deductions for the self-employed, very good; and we make some administrative statements. I'd like to hear if we could move forward on malpractice reform. But these are some of the ingredients of what we think is a very helpful, very practical, and forward-looking health care program. So I hope that we can move it.
Perot Investigations
Q. Mr. President, how do you feel about Ross Perot's private initiative to investigate you and your finances?
The President. Well, I better count to 10. [Laughter] I prefer not to take that question right now, frankly.
Q. Were you aware of the inquiry?
The President. No, there's something not very pleasant about all this. And let me tell you this: It's fine to investigate on one's own the Vice President of the United States; no evidence to support any investigation. But I feel a little tense about it when they -- if the reports are true of investigating my children, my family. There's something -- I don't think that's particularly right. But nevertheless, I've probably said too much here.
Q. No, you haven't.
The President. Put it this way: I've said all I'm going to say.
Q. Are you angry?
The President. I'm not sure that's the proper word. There will be plenty of time to find out what happened here, but I don't like what I see.
Q. You're going to call him up and ask him yourself what happened?
Q. Has he called you -- --
The President. Thank you very much. Thank you all.
Q. -- -- to apologize or complain?
  