
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate five individuals to serve in his administration and announced the nomination of two individuals to serve as members of the federal judiciary.
The President intends to nominate Hilton Lewis Root to be United States Director of the Asian Development Bank with the rank of Ambassador. He is currently the Director and Senior Fellow for Global Studies at the Milken Institute. From 1992 to 1998, he was a Senior Research Fellow at the Hoover Institution and served as the Director of the Initiative on Economic Growth and Democracy from 1996 to 1998. While serving at the Hoover Institution, he was an Associate Professor of Public Policy at Stanford University from 1995 to 1998. He currently serves in an advisory role to numerous financial institutions including the African Economic Commission of the United Nations, the Asian Development Bank, the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank. A resident of Santa Barbara, Califorina, he received both his Master's degree and Ph.D. from the University of Michigan.
The President intends to nominate Christopher William Dell to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Angola. A career member of the Senior Foreign Service, he has served as Principal Officer in Pristina since February 2000. From 1997 to 2000 he held the post of Deputy Chief of Mission in Sofia and was based in Washington, D.C. as Deputy Director EUR/RPM responsible for NATO political affairs from 1994 to 1996. He has held a variety of other positions both overseas and at the Department of State including Deputy Chief of Mission in Maputo and Special Assistant in the Office of the Under Secretary for Arms Control. Originally from New Jersey, he is a graduate of Columbia University and received a Ph.M. from Oxford University.
The President intends to nominate Michael L. Dominguez to be Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Manpower and Reserve Affairs. He has served since January as the Assistant Director of Space, Information Warfare, Command and Control Directorate in the Office of the Chief of Naval Operations. He had served as a Research Project Director at the Center for Naval Analysis since 1999. Mr. Dominguez entered the Senior Executive Service at the Department of Defense in 1991 and was the Director for Planning and Analytical Support in the Office of the Secretary's Defense Program Analysis and Evaluation organization. He joined the staff of the Chief of Naval Operations in 1994 where he served as Associate Director for Programming. He has earned numerous awards for his service including Defense Civilian Service Award. A veteran of the U.S. Army, he is a graduate of the U.S. Military Academy and received a M. B. A. from Stanford University.
The President intends to nominate Nelson F. Gibbs to be Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Installations and Environment. He has served at the Office of Management and Budget since 2000 as Executive Director of the Cost Accounting Standards and served at Northrop Grumman Corporation as Corporate Controller from 1991 to 1999. From 1962 to 1991, he was with Deloitte and Touche in a variety of positions including Senior Partner in Tokyo, Japan, and Lead Client Service Partner for Multinational Companies for the Southern California Region. A California resident, he is a graduate of Clarkson University and received a Master's degree from Purdue University.
The President intends to nominate Claude B. Hutchinson, Jr., to be Assistant Secretary of Veterans Affairs for Management. He is presently the Managing Director of the Strategic Marketing Group of LECG, Inc. He was previously the Chairman and CEO of Smith and Crowley, a specialty investment banking firm and was concurrently the Director and Principal of Breakthrough Solutions, a consulting and venture development firm. He is a former member of the U.S. Naval Reserves and is a graduate of the University of California at Berkeley and received a M. B. A from Harvard University.
The President will nominate John D. Bates to be a Judge for the United States District for the District of Columbia.
The President intends to nominate Reggie B. Walton to be a Judge for the United States District for the District of Columbia.
  