
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate two individuals, appoint nine individuals and designate one individual to serve in his Administration.
The President intends to nominate Michele J. Sison, of Maryland, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Lebanon. Ms. Sison, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, currently serves as Chargé d'Affaires in Beirut. Prior to this, she served as Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the United Arab Emirates. Earlier in her career, she served as Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for South Asian Affairs. Ms. Sison received her bachelor's degree from Wellesley College.
The President intends to nominate James Christopher Swan, of California, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Djibouti. Mr. Swan, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, currently serves as Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for African Affairs. Prior to this, he served as Director of the Office for African Analysis in the Bureau of Intelligence and Research at the Department of State. Earlier in his career, he served as Deputy Chief of Mission in Kinshasa. Mr. Swan received his bachelor's degree from Georgetown University and his master's degree from Johns Hopkins University.
The President intends to appoint Carole Jean Jordan, of Florida, to be Chairperson of the National Women's Business Council.
The President intends to appoint Florence Shapiro, of Texas, to be a Member of the United States Holocaust Memorial Council, for the remainder of a five-year term expiring 01/15/10.
The President intends to designate Carolyn D. Runowicz, of Connecticut, to be Chairman of the National Cancer Advisory Board, for the term expiring 03/09/10.
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the National Cancer Advisory Board:
Victoria Lee Champion, of Indiana, (Science/Environmental Carcinogens), for the remainder of a six-year term expiring 03/09/14;
William H. Goodwin, Jr., of Virginia, (Public), for the remainder of a six-year term expiring 03/09/14;
Waun Ki Hong, of Texas, (Science), for the remainder of a six-year term expiring 03/09/14;
Judith Salmon Kaur, of Minnesota, (Science), for the remainder of a six-year term expiring 03/09/12;
Mary Vaughan Lester, of California, (Public), for the remainder of a six-year term expiring 03/09/14;
Herbert Kim Lyerly, of North Carolina, (Science), for the remainder of a six-year term expiring 03/09/14;
Jennifer A. Pietenpol, of Tennessee, (Science/Environmental Carcinogens), for the remainder of a six-year term expiring 03/09/14.
  