
    "From sea to shining sea, Americans benefit from the ocean's bounty — from the industries it supports and the jobs it creates." – President Donald J. Trump 
STREAMLINING FEDERAL OCEAN POLICY: President Donald J. Trump is establishing a more streamlined process for Federal coordination on ocean policy. 

President Donald J. Trump is signing an Executive Order establishing an interagency Ocean Policy Committee to streamline Federal coordination.

The Ocean Policy Committee will be co-chaired by the Council on Environmental Quality and Office of Science and Technology Policy. 


The Ocean Policy Committee will focus on growing the ocean economy, prioritizing scientific research, coordinating resources and data sharing, and engaging with stakeholders.

The Executive Order promotes expanded access by States, businesses, and the public to Federal data and information. 
The Executive Order maximizes taxpayer dollars by coordinating priority research. 


President Trump is rolling back excessive bureaucracy created by the previous Administration. 

The Executive Order replaces a prior order issued in 2010 that had created the overly bureaucratic National Ocean Council and 9 Regional Planning Bodies. 
The National Ocean Council included 27 departments and agencies, and over 20 committees, subcommittees, and working groups. 
The new, streamlined Ocean Policy Committee will have a Subcommittee for Science and Technology and a Subcommittee for Resource Management. 


EMPOWERING STATES: President Trump is empowering States by eliminating duplicative Federal bureaucracy.

President Trump's Executive Order also eliminates the duplicative, Federally-driven Regional Planning Bodies established by the previous Administration.

The Regional Planning Bodies are unnecessary, as States have already voluntarily formed Regional Ocean Partnerships. 


The Executive Order supports appropriate Federal engagement with Regional Ocean Partnerships, while clarifying the scope of Federal support for the Partnerships. 

PROMOTING A STRONG OCEAN ECONOMY: President Trump is reducing unnecessary bureaucracy and regulatory uncertainty which serve as headwinds for America's ocean industries. 

The President's Executive Order will remove unnecessary Federal bureaucracy, provide regulatory certainty, and increase public access to Federal data and information. 
Ocean industries employ millions of workers and support a strong American economy.

In 2015, the ocean and Great Lakes economy contributed $320 billion to U.S. gross domestic product and supported 3.2 million jobs. 
United States fisheries help support our nation and provide tremendous export opportunities. 
The U.S. economy depends on maritime commerce to transport goods and materials. 



  