
    ARLINGTON, VA -- U.S. Senator John McCain's presidential campaign today launched the McCain Truth Squad to counter recent attacks on John McCain's military service and credentials in national security affairs. The campaign also unveiled a new web site, www.johnmccaintruthsquad.com , to set the record straight against Internet smears of John McCain's service.
"We're proud of John McCain's record of service and sacrifice for our nation," said Lt.Col. Orson Swindle, USMC (Ret.), who served as a POW with McCain. "John's war record -- the character, courage and commitment he displayed in the hardest of circumstances, is well-documented, and we absolutely refuse to allow his political opponents to rewrite history for political gain. We know the truth because we lived it with him, and we stand ready to make sure all Americans know the truth."
In the event of false attacks on John McCain's military service record, the McCain Truth Squad will issue statements to voters and to members of the media that set the record straight. In addition, members of the Truth Squad will be available to respond quickly to inquiries from the media regarding negative attacks. 
MCCAIN TRUTH SQUAD LEADERSHIP
Senator John Warner (R-VA)
Col. Bud Day, USAF (Ret.), Medal of Honor
The Honorable Robert "Bud" McFarlane, Former National Security Advisor
Lt. Commander Carl M. Smith, USNR
Admiral Leighton "Snuffy" Smith, Jr., USN (Ret.), Former CINCUSNAVEUR, CINCSOUTH, Commander IFOR
The Honorable Orson Swindle, Lt.Col. USMC (Ret.) 
ABOUT THE MCCAIN TRUTH SQUAD LEADERSHIP 
Col. Bud Day, USAF (Ret.), Medal of Honor: George (Bud) Day, an Air Force pilot, was a POW for five years and seven months. He retired from the Air Force as a colonel after serving in World War II, Korea, and Vietnam. He is the Air Force's most highly decorated officer, earning a Congressional Medal of Honor, an Air Force Cross, a Legion of Merit, a Distinguished Flying Cross, two Bronze Stars, nine Air Medals, and three Purple Hearts, among other honors. 
The Honorable Robert "Bud" McFarlane: The Honorable Robert "Bud" McFarlane served as President Ronald Reagan's National Security Advisor from 1983 to 1985. In 1971, Mr. McFarlane was named a White House Fellow and served in the Office of Legislative Affairs in the White House. Following that assignment, he became Military Assistant to Henry Kissinger and Brent Scowcroft. Near the end of this five-year assignment to the White House he was appointed by President Gerald Ford as his Special Assistant for National Security Affairs and was awarded the Distinguished Service Medal, the Navy & Marine Corps' highest peacetime military decoration. In 1981, Mr. McFarlane was appointed by President Reagan and confirmed by the U.S. Senate as Counselor to the Department of State. In 1982, President Reagan appointed Mr. McFarlane to Deputy National Security Advisor. 
Lt. Commander Carl M. Smith, USNR: Carl Smith is a former Naval Aviator who served with John McCain in VA-174 as an Instructor Pilot from 1975-78. He later became the Republican Staff Director/Chief Counsel of the Senate Armed Services Committee. Mr. Smith is currently a partner in the Washington-based law firm of McGovern & Smith, LLC. He is a graduate of the University of Virginia and the Georgetown Law Center. 
Admiral Leighton "Snuffy" Smith, Jr., USN (Ret.): Admiral Smith retired from the Navy after over 34 years of service in positions that took him, literally, around the world. His last active duty assignment was Commander, U.S. Naval Force, Europe, Commander in Chief Allied Forces Southern Europe (NATO) and, concurrently, Commander of NATO's first ever out of area land operation, the Implementation Forces (IFOR) in Bosnia charged with implementing the Dayton Peace Accords. As a naval aviator Admiral Smith flew carrier-based light attack jet aircraft during multiple deployments to the Mediterranean, North Atlantic, Western Pacific and Indian oceans. These included three cruises in waters off North Vietnam where he flew over 280 combat missions. 
The Honorable Orson Swindle, Lt.Col. USMC (Ret.): Orson Swindle, a Marine pilot, was a POW for six years and four months. He retired from the Marine Corps as a lieutenant colonel, awarded two Silver Stars, two Legion of Merits, two Bronze Stars, thirteen Air Medals and two Purple Hearts. He has twice served as a Presidential Appointee, first as Assistant Secretary of Commerce and most recently, Commissioner on the Federal Trade Commission.
  