
    Memorandum for Heads of Executive Departments and Agencies
Secretary of Transportation Volpe has agreed to serve again this year as Chairman of the Combined Federal Campaign for the National Capital Area. He did an outstanding job as campaign chairman last year and I am pleased that he is willing to serve again.
As in past years, this fall's campaign will combine into one single drive the campaigns of the United Givers Fund, the National Health Agencies, and the International Service Agencies. In this one drive we will be seeking to do our share to meet the needs of more than 150 local, national, and international health, welfare, and social service agencies.
The voluntary charitable organizations perform services that are vital to our community, our nation and the world. The Combined Federal Campaign offers Federal personnel a unique opportunity to help hundreds of voluntary organizations by one gift once a year, a gift made easier by the availability of payroll deductions. I know that Secretary Volpe will have your wholehearted support in this endeavor and I hope you will commend the campaign with its payroll deduction feature to Federal employees and military personnel in your organization.
I request that you serve personally as Chairman of the combined campaign in your organization and appoint a top assistant as your Vice Chairman Please advise Secretary Volpe of the person you designate as your Vice Chairman.
RICHARD NIXON
Memorandum for All Federal Employees and Military Personnel
The concept of voluntary action, of community action, of people banding together in a spirit of neighborliness to do those things which they see must be done is deeply rooted in America's character and tradition.
Through the Combined Federal Campaign we have the opportunity, which comes only in a free society, to show our individual concern for those who need help. This campaign combines in one annual on-the-job drive the campaigns of the local united fund, the American Red Cross, the National Health Agencies, and the International Service Agencies. These agencies help make our community a better place in which to live; they alleviate pain and suffering and seek cures from dreaded diseases; they bring help and hope to those in overseas lands.
Generosity and concern for others has always been a proud tradition of all who serve in the United States Government. I feel confident you will continue this tradition and welcome the opportunity to be of service through your contributions to the Combined Federal Campaign.
RICHARD NIXON
  