
    Alexandria, VA - Senator Lindsey Graham appeared on NBC's Meet the Press this morning where he discussed the removal of the confederate flag, the Supreme Court's decision on same-sex marriage and protecting religious liberties.
As highlighted by The Washington Post, Senator Graham also discussed what it would mean for the GOP in 2016 to embrace a constitutional amendment on marriage and why he will concentrate on protecting religious liberties. Graham stated on Sunday, "You can put it in the platform but it will hurt us in 2016, because it's a process that's not going to bear fruit. What I want to do is protect the religious liberties of those who believe that opposing same-sex marriage is a part of their faith."
Watch the full episode here:

On The President's Eulogy At Rev. Pinckney's Funeral In Charleston, Graham: "I Thought He Did An Incredible Job Of Speaking About Rev. Pinckney."
"Great speech, good singer. I don't think he's a very good Commander-In-Chief. But he did a very good job... When we started talking about God's grace and the Democratic agenda across the board, he sort of lost me there. But I thought he did an incredible job of speaking about Rev. Pinckney. I think he did a good job of explaining our history... I'm glad he came and I know it meant a lot to the people there in South Carolina..."
On Addressing The Removal Of The Confederate Flag: "My State Will Never Be Able To Move Forward After This Shooting If We Don't Take The Flag Down."
"My state will never be able to move forward after this shooting if we don't take the flag down. The people of the AME church, the families of the victims changed everything by their grace, by their love, by their forgiveness. Making it impossible for a guy like me to say, 'Keep the flag up.'"
"I See [The Flag] As A Roadblock To The Future Of My State."
"Put it in the museum. You can look at it anyway you would like. But after this shooting and after the call for it to be taken down by the families of the victims, I see it as a roadblock to the future of my state. I love my state. We've come a long way. We've got a long way to go."
On The Supreme Court's Decision On Same-Sex Marriage: "I Think It's A Transformational Moment."
"...I think it's a transformational moment...if I'm President of the United States, here's what would happen. If you have a church, a mosque or a synagogue, and you're following your faith and refuse to perform a same-sex marriage because it's outside the tenants of your faith, in my presidency you will not lose your tax-exempt status. If you're a gay person or gay couple... You will be able to participate in commerce and be a full member of society consistent with the religious beliefs of others who have rights also."
On The GOP 2016 Platform On A Constitutional Amendment Defining Marriage: "It Will Hurt Us in 2016, Because It's A Process That's Not Going To Bear Fruit."
"You can put it in the platform but it will hurt us in 2016, because it's a process that's not going to bear fruit. What I want to do is protect the religious liberties of those who believe that opposing same-sex marriage is a part of their faith... I would not engage in the constitutional amendment process as a party going into 2016, except the courts ruling 'fight for the religious liberties of every American.'"
On The Flag Coming Down In South Carolina: "This Is A Case Where The People Led The Politicians."
"I am confident that after all of this is over, we'll be stronger than South Carolina was before. This is a case where the people led the politicians. The grace, the love shown by the victims of these families represent my state better than I could ever hope to. I'm so proud of the people in Charleston."
  