
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

Prompt, effective assistance can mean the difference between life and death for victims of accidents and other emergencies, which is why each of us should be prepared to respond accordingly. Citizens who have knowledge of and training in lifesaving techniques such as cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) and the control of bleeding and shock can play a vital role in providing needed first aid during the critical minutes before professional help is available.
The National Center for Health Statistics reports that in 1989, the most recent year for which final figures are available, 296 out of every 100,000 deaths in the United States were caused by heart disease. More than 4,000 Americans died from drowning and submersion, and 3,578 of our citizens either suffocated or choked to death. A significant number of these tragic deaths could have been prevented if bystanders were trained in basic lifesaving techniques taught by the American Red Cross, the Young Men's and Women's Christian Associations, the American Heart Association, and other national and local organizations. Indeed, it is estimated that the help of knowledgeable bystanders could save as many as 50 percent of those injured, compared to accidents and emergencies in which care is unavailable until medical personnel arrive on the scene.
Since cardiopulmonary resuscitation was first introduced in the early 1960s, instruction and learning in this and other lifesaving measures have moved beyond the realm of the medical community and into the public at large. Today, Americans of all backgrounds have opportunities to learn CPR, the abdominal thrust, the Heimlich maneuver, and so forth. More and more of our citizens must take advantage of these opportunities if we are to reduce the number of preventable deaths caused by accidents and heart disease.
In recognition of the importance of education in first aid and other lifesaving techniques, the Congress, by Public Law 102-305, has designated the week of July 5 through July 11, 1992, as "National Awareness Week for Lifesaving Techniques" and has requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this week.
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush, President of the United States of America, do hereby designate the week of July 5 through July 11, 1992, as National Awareness Week for Lifesaving Techniques. I call on local and State governments, the relevant Federal agencies, and the people of the United States to observe this week with appropriate programs and activities.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this thirtieth day of June, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-two, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and sixteenth.

GEORGE BUSH
  