
    Memorandum for the Heads of Executive Departments and Agencies 
Subject: Lobbyists on Agency Boards and Commissions
My Administration is committed to reducing the undue influence of special interests that for too long has shaped the national agenda and drowned out the voices of ordinary Americans. Special interests exert this disproportionate influence, in part, by relying on lobbyists who have special access that is not available to all citizens. Although lobbyists can sometimes play a constructive role by communicating information to the government, their service in privileged positions within the executive branch can perpetuate the culture of special-interest access that I am committed to changing.
On the day after my inauguration, I signed Executive Order 13490, which places strict limits on the ability of lobbyists to serve in Government positions related to their prior lobbying activities. Last September, we took another step to close the revolving door through which lobbyists enter and exit Government positions when we announced that my Administration aspires to keep Federal agencies' advisory boards free of federally registered lobbyists. Many departments and agencies are making this aspiration a reality by no longer placing federally registered lobbyists on advisory boards—a practice that I am now establishing as the official policy of my Administration.
Accordingly, I hereby direct the heads of executive departments and agencies not to make any new appointments or reappointments of federally registered lobbyists to advisory committees and other boards and commissions. Within 90 days of the date of this memorandum, the Director of the Office of Management and Budget shall issue proposed guidance designed to implement this policy to the full extent permitted by law. The final guidance shall be issued following public comment on the proposed guidance.
This memorandum is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
The Director of the Office of Management and Budget is hereby authorized and directed to publish this memorandum in the Federal Register.
BARACK OBAMA
  