
    Members of Congress
Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-KY): "Today, the President will sign into law the VA MISSION Act that Congress passed last month. It's a set of major improvements to the way we care for America's veterans—increasing their choices and expanding access to care for those who've sacrificed to serve."
House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy (R-CA): "Together, we are transforming the VA into a more transparent, efficient, and accountable institution. #VAMISSIONAct"
House Majority Whip Steve Scalise (R-LA): ".@POTUS has signed the #VAMISSIONAct! This is great news for our nation's veterans who will now have more choice in the care they receive."
Senate Veterans' Affairs Committee Chairman Johnny Isakson (R-GA): "This is a truly meaningful victory for our nation's veterans, who will benefit from more choice and fewer barriers to care. The signing of this legislation marks the completion of the final piece in a great mosaic of veterans reforms that we set out to accomplish over the last two years. I thank President Trump for his unwavering support for our veterans, and I appreciate my colleagues in Congress who upheld our commitment to our veterans by voting for some of the most significant reforms to-date to improve the VA's current healthcare delivery system."
House Veterans' Affairs Committee Chairman Phil Roe (R-TN): "Today is a great day. For the last year and a half, I've been working tirelessly with the President, members of the Trump administration and my colleagues in the House and Senate to move bipartisan reforms through Congress that will deliver on the promises we've made to our nation's heroes. Together, we've been able to modernize the appeals process, bring true accountability to the Department of Veterans Affairs and give student veterans the largest expansion of GI Bill benefits since the GI Bill was created."
Sen. John McCain (R-AZ): "Proud the #VAMISSIONAct has been signed into law. This bill will provide veterans w/ greater health care choices & improved quality of care, while delivering major reforms to the VA that will finally transform it into a 21st century integrated health care system."
Sen. Tom Cotton (R-AR): "Veterans still face far too many obstacles when trying to get the care they need, and this bill will help remove a good number of them. Instead of forcing veterans to wait to see a doctor, we'll expand their options so they can find one close to them. This is squarely in keeping with the mission of the VA, and I'm glad to see the President sign this important legislation."
Sen. Marco Rubio (R-FL): "President Trump's signing of the VA Mission Act is an important step toward ensuring our veterans have access to the quality care they deserve. I thank my colleagues in both the Senate and the House who joined me in advancing this bipartisan effort and President Trump for signing the legislation into law."
Sen. David Perdue (R-GA): "Glad to see @POTUS sign the #VAMissionAct into law. He has taken action to clean up bureaucracy at the VA & put our veterans first. This plan will help our nation's heroes receive the care they deserve. Thanks to @SenatorIsakson for his work to get this across the finish line!"
Sen. Joni Ernst (R-IA): "Today, we reached an important milestone in providing our veterans with the quality of care they earned and deserve. Thank you @realDonaldTrump for signing the #VAMissionAct, including my VETS Act, into law."
Sen. Todd Young (R-IN): "On my way to the @whitehouse to join @POTUS for the #VAMissionAct bill signing. I was proud to support this bill that funds the VA Choice program and offers the tools necessary to better serve our #veterans."
Sen. Jerry Moran (R-KS): "I am proud the VA MISSION Act, which will empower our veterans and dramatically improve and modernize their healthcare services, is now signed into law.... I am grateful for the President's support of this bipartisan legislation and for his work to help get it across the finish line."
Sen. Bill Cassidy (R-LA): "This breakthrough legislation puts veterans first and ensures they have access to the quality care they deserve. I'm proud to have authored several provisions of this legislation to help our veterans."
Sen. Steve Daines (R-MT): "The MISSION Act is an important step forward, and I'm proud to have helped get this bill across the finish line and onto the President's desk. I look forward to honoring our veterans' service by standing with the President today as he signs this important bill into law."
Sen. Thom Tillis (R-NC): "The VA MISSION Act will ensure that veterans have timely access to quality care, whether in a brick and mortar VA facility, or through one of VA's community partners.... I applaud Congress for coming together on a bipartisan basis to follow through on the promises we made to those who served our country, and I thank President Trump for joining us to support our nation's veterans."
Sen. John Hoeven (R-ND): "[The VA MISSION Act] will help deliver better health care to our veterans and build stronger partnerships with community providers."
Sen. Dean Heller (R-NV): "It was an honor to join @POTUS as he signed the sweeping #VAMISSIONAct into law minutes ago, empowering veterans & giving them the decision making power they deserve."
Sen. Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH): "Our service members deserve the highest quality care when they get home, and I'm thrilled to see our bipartisan #VAMissionAct signed into law. This bipartisan law will help improve care for veterans in NH and across the country."
Sen. Rob Portman (R-OH): "Today, on the 74th anniversary of #DDay, @POTUS signed the VA MISSION Act into law. This bipartisan legislation will provide our veterans with access to efficient, timely & quality healthcare & services in their own communities & I strongly support it"
Sen. Pat Toomey (R-PA): "Our commitment to veterans means always improving health care provided by the VA. The bipartisan #VAMISSIONAct seeks to give veterans more control over health care decisions & access to the best treatment possible. I'm glad @POTUS signed this important legislation into law."
Sen. Lindsey Graham (R-SC): "I'm proud to join President Trump and my colleagues as we celebrate the VA MISSION Act being signed into law. This bill will ensure our veterans receive the speedy and high-quality care they have earned.... This is a monumental step forward in providing quality health care to the bravest among us."
Sen. Tim Scott (R-SC): "Great news as the President signed the VA Mission Act into law today. After sacrificing so much throughout their military careers, our veterans should have access to high quality care.... The VA Mission Act is designed to fix current inefficiencies that will cut wait times, streamline services, and provide better care."
Sen. Lamar Alexander (R-TN): "Today is a great day for veterans in Tennessee and across our country. Under this new law, veterans will have more health care options closer to home. I applaud President Trump for signing this critical legislation into law and thank Chairman Phil Roe for his continued work on behalf of our nation's veterans."
Rep. Bradley Byrne (R-AL): "I am thrilled that President Trump signed the #VAMISSIONAct into law today. We have a duty to provide for the brave men and women who have sacrificed so much to defend our national security, and they deserve the highest standard of care when seeking lifesaving medical care."
Rep. Mike Rogers (R-AL): "Proud to see @realdonaldtrump signing the VA Mission Act into law. We owe the very best care we can provide to our brave men and women who have served in uniform and I'm glad to see this important legislation being signed into law today!"
Rep. French Hill (R-AR): "Today is a victory for our veterans! @realDonaldTrump signed the VA Mission Act, which I was proud to support in the House. Delivering timely and quality care for our veterans is non-negotiable."
Rep. Martha McSally (R-AZ): "On my way to @WhiteHouse to see @POTUS sign the VA Mission Act into law. I supported this legislation b/c it will streamline community care programs & expand the @DeptVetAffairs Post-9/11 Caregiver Program to vets of all wars."
Rep. Mike Coffman (R-CO): "The signing into law of the VA MISSION Act is a testament to the countless hours of bipartisan discussion and work to get this bill to the President's desk. This law will now seek to strengthen and effectively reform the Department of Veterans Affairs to ensure it delivers the 21st century treatment and medical care our veterans rightly fought for and deserve—all while providing the oversight tax payers demand."
Rep. Scott Tipton (R-CO): "The signing of this important bill into law will help remove obstacles that veterans have repeatedly faced when trying to receive timely medical care."
Rep. Neal Dunn (R-FL): "Today with President Trump, we took a big step in improving care and choice for our veterans. The VA MISSION Act gives certainty to our veterans, increasing benefits to our nation's heroes and expanding options to seek care outside of the VA.... I thank President Trump and House VA Committee Chairman Phil Roe for their dedication to our veterans."
Rep. John Rutherford (R-FL): "Today, I was proud to see President @realdonaldtrump sign the bipartisan VA MISSION Act. This historic piece of legislation makes great progress in improving care for our vets."
Rep. Daniel Webster (R-FL): "With President Trump signing the VA Mission Act into law, we have delivered on another promise to our veterans.... I thank President Trump for making serving veterans a priority and working with Congress to enact much needed new laws and accountability."
Rep. Buddy Carter (R-GA): "I want to thank President Trump, Senator Johnny Isakson, Congressman Phil Roe, and all of my colleagues who worked diligently to get this legislation across the finish line. This legislation works to ensure our veterans get the quality care that is best for them."
Rep. Doug Collins (R-GA): "US veterans deserve high-quality health care & the #VAMISSION Act takes significant steps to make it more accessible to them through both the VA & community providers. @POTUS & this Congress support the people who have defended our nation, & today demonstrates this commitment."
Rep. Jody Hice (R-GA): "I commend @POTUS @realDonaldTrump and @SenatorIsakson on the great work they've done to achieve much-needed health care reforms for our veterans in signing the #VAMISSIONAct into law. What a great step to support our veterans who have bravely and selflessly served our country."
Rep. Jim Banks (R-IN): "Thank you @POTUS for signing the #VAMissionAct into law today. I was proud to support this legislation in Congress and attend the bill signing ceremony this afternoon. I look forward to continuing the work to ensure our veterans get the quality, timely care they deserve."
Rep. Susan Brooks (R-IN): "Today, @POTUS signed into law the #bipartisan #VAMissionAct, which I proudly supported in the House, extending Veterans Choice Program funding & streamlining community care programs. Our #veterans put their lives on the line for our country & deserve quality care."
Rep. Todd Rokita (R-IN): "Thank you, @POTUS for signing the V.A. Mission Act that will give our veterans more choice and quality access to the care they deserve and have earned."
Rep. Jackie Walorski (R-IN): "America's veterans risked their lives to defend freedom and keep us safe. This bipartisan law is a major step toward fulfilling our nation's promise to those who served."
Rep. Clay Higgins (R-LA): "We must prioritize veterans over bureaucracy. The #VAMissionAct advances those efforts and ensures that veterans have access to timely, high-quality care. Glad to see @POTUS sign it into law today."
Rep. Andy Harris (R-MD): "Thank you @POTUS for signing into law the VA MISSION Act - a law that will expand access to quality, affordable health care for America's veterans!"
Rep. Fred Upton (R-MI): "Proud to see the #VAMISSIONAct signed into law today. This bipartisan bill contains major reforms that will help our veterans in Southwest Michigan & across the country!"
Rep. Tim Walberg (R-MI): "The #VAMissionAct will strengthen veterans' health care and support caregivers of wounded heroes. Thank you @POTUS for signing it into law today."
Rep. Gregg Harper (R-MS): "Today is a great day for America's veterans. President Trump signed S. 2372, the VA Mission Act, into law. This bill includes significant reforms to how our nations' veterans receive health care. The VA Mission Act is the result of a bipartisan, bicameral effort in Congress developed with Trump administration support."
Rep. Ted Budd (R-NC): "The #VAMISSIONAct has been signed into law by @POTUS. I am proud to say that we are streamlining care for our veterans. On this #DDay, we are once again sending a message that our veterans will be taken care of!"
Rep. Richard Hudson (R-NC): "I believe veterans deserve the choice to see any doctor they want to, and this bill is a great step towards achieving that goal."
Rep. Mark Walker (R-NC): ".@POTUS just signed the #VAMISSIONAct into law. Extending the Choice Program that helps get our heroes faster care closer to home and expanding options for family caregivers will help us keep our promise to our veterans, from the Greatest Generation to the current generation."
Rep. Kevin Cramer (R-ND): "Veterans across North Dakota who travel a great distance to see a VA doctor will benefit from this new law. The Choice Program was a step in the right direction. This bill improves on that effort while we strive for the best, for our best."
Rep. Don Bacon (R-NE): "The #VAMISSIONAct fulfills our promises to our nation's veterans. Great to participate in the #VAMISSIONAct's signing ceremony!"
Rep. Chris Collins (R-NY): "The VA MISSION Act was just signed into law. Our nation's veterans deserve only the best and this important legislation will consolidate and standardize VA community care programs and provide funding for the continuation of the VA Choice Program."
Rep. Dan Donovan (R-NY): "Supporting our veterans: @POTUS just signed the VA Mission Act into law! America's veterans represent the very best of the U.S., and they deserve quality care. This legislation will expand and improve health service for the our nation's heroes."
Rep. Claudia Tenney (R-NY): "Today, I was honored to stand next to President Trump as he took action to provide access to high quality care for those who have answered the call to serve.... This bill will create a culture of accountability at the VA."
Rep. Dave Joyce (R-OH): "Another win for our nation's veterans! The President just signed into law the #VAMISSIONAct giving our veterans the choice to receive medical care they deserve from the doctors they want, where they want, in a more timely manner."
Rep. Bob Latta (R-OH): "The VA MISSION Act makes the necessary reforms to programs that support our veterans, and it is supported by every major veterans service organization. I applaud President Trump signing this legislation into law this afternoon."
Rep. Brad Wenstrup (R-OH): "Today's bill signing is the culmination of years of work to restore access to timely, quality care for America's veterans. I am proud to have worked on this important legislation to ensure our veterans get the care they have earned and deserve."
Rep. Markwayne Mullin (R-OK): "Proud to see @POTUS sign the #VAMissionAct into law today so that we can continue our work to reform and improve the care our nation's #veterans receive at the VA."
Rep. Glenn Thompson (R-PA): "Great to see the #VAMISSIONAct signed into law today by @POTUS. I'm proud that it includes provisions of my #VETSAct. We must always ensure our veterans receive the care they need no matter where they live."
Rep. Ralph Norman (R-SC): "Thank you Pres. @realDonaldTrump for signing the #VAMissionAct into law. These important legislation will give better care to our veterans & reform the VA."
Rep. Tom Rice (R-SC): "Today @POTUS signed the #VAMISSIONAct, ensuring that veterans in #SC07 and across the country receive the quality care they deserve."
Rep. Marsha Blackburn (R-TN): ".@realDonaldTrump is signing the bipartisan #VAMissionAct into law today. Thank you to my good friend, @DrPhilRoe for championing. We are putting the @DeptVetAffairs back on track to fulfill President Lincoln's promise to care for the men and women who have borne the battle."
Rep. Scott DesJarlais (R-TN): "The VA MISSION Act will eliminate bureaucracy to speed service and also the appeals process.... Veterans will have more options, as well as better care, and we will keep working to improve outcomes for American heroes."
Rep. Chuck Fleischmann (R-TN): "#Tennessee is home to over 400,000 veterans that have served our nation. Today, with the signing of the #VAMISSIONAct, we can better serve them."
Rep. John Carter (R-TX): "The VA Mission Act will greatly improve health care for our veterans, and my language within the legislation will ensure that no other veteran is ever denied life-saving transplant coverage because their organ donor is not a veteran."
Rep. Will Hurd (R-TX): "Access to medical care can be a real problem for many of the 45,000 veterans I represent in rural areas across South and West Texas. The bipartisan #VAMISSIONAct ensures our nation's heroes have access to the quality care they deserve."
Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-TX): "I'm grateful the VA Mission Act was signed into law by President Trump today, so we can ensure our nation's heroes receive the quality and timely care they deserve from the doctors who can best meet their needs."
Rep. Pete Sessions (R-TX): "It's a great day for our veterans. The President just signed the VA Mission Act. I proudly supported this critical package to reform and streamline community care programs for our veterans."
Rep. Rob Wittman (R-VA): "Thrilled POTUS is signing the #VAMISSIONAct! Veterans shouldn't be forced to stay in a system that isn't meeting their needs."
Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA): "This is a critical step to move the VA closer to a 21st century health care system that rolls out the red carpet for our veterans. By consolidating the VA's multiple community care programs and temporarily extending the Choice Program, the VA Mission Act will help ensure our veterans get the care they have earned when they need it.... I'm glad this Administration has made it a priority to provide greater accountability, better management, and improved patient care at the VA."
Rep. Dave Reichert (R-WA): "Our veterans deserve quality healthcare & that's why I'm glad to see the VA MISSION Act signed into law today, giving veterans more options to choose from in their healthcare, no longer limiting them to VA centers that can often be miles away."
Rep. Sean Duffy (R-WI): "Thank you @POTUS for signing the #VAMISSIONAct into law. This legislation takes major steps to improve healthcare for our nation's veterans!"
State and Local Officials
Maine Governor Paul LePage (R): "Proud that @MEveterans Director Adria Horn was able to represent Maine's veterans today as @realDonaldTrump signed the VA MISSION Act @WhiteHouse to strengthen & modernize the @DeptVetAffairs and improve its ability to provide timely and seamless care to VA patients"
Nebraska Governor Pete Ricketts (R): "The VA Mission Act is about strengthening the VA healthcare system and improving the lives of veterans, their families, and caregivers. Our country has a duty to serve those who have so bravely served us, and the VA Mission Act will allow the USVA to do just that. It is essential that we provide continuing care for our veterans. Thank you to President Trump and Congress for their work on this important priority, and for getting this done for our veterans."
National Association of State Directors of Veterans Affairs (NASDVA) President and Director of Alaska Office of Veterans Affairs Verdie Bowen: "The VA Mission Act of 2018 is the best example of keeping our nations promise to those who borne the battle and is fitting that President Trump signed this bill into law on the anniversary of D-Day."
Arizona Department of Veterans' Services Director Wanda Wright: "I'm honored that the White House invited me to the signing of the MISSION Act. These are exciting times for not only Arizona veterans, but all veterans and their families."
Iowa Department of Veterans Affairs Executive Director Steve Lukan: "Iowa is a state with many Veterans residing several hours away from a full VA hospital and facility. The Choice program will improve access to quality care for many of these veterans and is a welcome development for many Veterans living outside the immediate radius of a full VA facility."
Maine Bureau of Veterans' Services: "The Maine Bureau of Veterans' Services had the honor of attending the signing of the VA MISSION Act at [the] White House this afternoon. The VA MISSION Act will strengthen the [VA's] ability to provide timely and seamless care to VA patients. $5.2 Billion has been allocated to prevent the interruption of access to needed care, modernize VA health care with needed investments and improvements, and recruit and retain additional medical personnel."
Wisconsin Department of Veterans Affairs Secretary Daniel J. Zimmerman: "The Veterans of Wisconsin will be better served with the signing of the VA Mission Act. The Veterans in our rural areas need the Choice Program to continue to receive their care, and the regulatory improvements will enable the VA Medical Centers to better respond to the needs of all our Veterans, whether they live in the northern, southern or central part of Wisconsin."
State Representative Jim Baird (R-IN): "It was exciting to see President Donald J Trump fulfilling one of his earliest campaign promises by signing the VA Mission Act of 2018. This supports our Veterans and helps them receive the access to medical care they deserve after protecting our American freedom."
Virginia House Of Delegates Speaker Kirk Cox (R): "I was honored to attend this bipartisan bill signing ceremony with President Trump, Vice President Pence, and congressional leaders. The bill makes much-needed investments in the healthcare of our nation's heroes and includes important reforms to make sure they get the healthcare they need when they need it."
State Senator Bryce Reeves (R-VA): "On the anniversary of D-Day, when we remember and honor the sacrifices of those who fought on the beaches of Normandy, our President fulfilled yet another promise. To care for those who have worn the cloth of our country and served with honor. I was humbled and honored to be able to attend as a veteran."
Cabinet Members
Acting Secretary of Veterans Affairs Peter O'Rourke: "Today President Trump kept his promise to our Nation's Veterans and signed the historic VA MISSION Act into law. His leadership today in the Rose Garden is testament to his commitment to Veterans, caregivers, and their families. The bipartisan support fostered by the tireless work of both the House and Senate Veterans' Affairs Committee Chairmen Rep. Phil Roe and Sen. Johnny Isakson, along with members of the committees, led to the overwhelming passage of the Act.... VA looks forward to implementing the law to give Veterans the best possible care by increasing flexibility and streamlining access to healthcare."
Advocacy Organizations 
AMVETS: "AMVETS applauds @POTUS @realDonaldTrump signing the #VAMissionAct into law. It is appropriate that this be signed on such a memorable day in U.S. history (#DDay74), and collectively we're making strides to #HealAmericanVeterans and provide them with the benefits they deserve."
Association of the United States Navy: "AUSN is proud to represent America's Veterans as @POTUS signs the historic VA Mission Act at the Rose Garden. This will allow vets to access private-sector health care."
Concerned Veterans for America Executive Director Dan Caldwell: "We are very thankful lawmakers were able to set aside partisan differences and join with President Trump to advance this critical legislation. President Trump has been a tireless champion for expanding health care choices for veterans and this bill is a big win for those who use the VA and his administration."
Disabled American Veterans National Commander Delphine Metcalf-Foster: "As National Commander of DAV, a proud veteran and a former family caregiver, I am grateful for leaders in the House, Senate and the Administration coming together to enact the VA MISSION Act."
Elizabeth Dole Foundation: "Thank you @POTUS for signing the #VAMISSIONAct into law! Today's signing is a momentous achievement in ensuring that our nation's #hiddenheroes have the support they deserve. #MISSIONCompleted"
The Independence Fund Executive Director Sarah Verardo: "We salute the President's steadfast commitment to provide Veterans real VA health care choice, from his campaign promises to today's bill signing. We also salute this bill expanding the VA's caregiver program to all eras of service where Veterans were disabled."
Military Officers Association of America: "#Veterans scored a victory when the long-awaited @DeptVetAffairs #MissionAct was signed into law today by @realDonaldTrump"
Paralyzed Veterans of America President David Zurfluh: "On behalf of Paralyzed Veterans of America members—veterans with spinal cord injury or disease—their families, and caregivers, we wish to express our gratitude to President Trump for signing this bipartisan legislation into law."
Veterans of Foreign Wars National Commander Keith Harman: "President Trump signaled his support for this bill early on in the process which shows that he puts veterans before politics. This historic legislation will help our veterans get the care they earned when they joined the military."
  