
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Romney Press Shop (857) 288-6390
Boston, MA – Today, Governor Mitt Romney announced the Co-Chairs of the South Carolina Statewide Finance Committee. Jim Anthony, Peter Brown, Bill Hewitt and State Senator Greg Ryberg will help Governor Romney raise the resources needed to run an effective campaign in South Carolina. Drea Byars will serve as the South Carolina Finance Director.
"It is an honor to have the support of these South Carolina business and community leaders," said Governor Romney. "With their help, we will continue to build our expanding grassroots network in this critical state and bring change to Washington."
Background On South Carolina Statewide Finance Committee Co-Chairs:
Jim Anthony (Pickens) - Anthony is the Founder, President and Chief Executive Officer of The Cliffs Communities, Inc. Prior to his founding The Cliffs, he spent more than 20 years as a telephone line repairman for Southern Bell, while building an active real estate development business on the side. In 1999, Anthony was named "The Most Influential Greenvillian" by Greenville Magazine, and was a finalist for Greenville Magazine's "1999 Business Person of the Year." In 2006, he was honored with the Blue Ridge Council of the Boy Scouts of America's Distinguished Citizen Award. Anthony also serves on the Society of International Business Fellows and the Upstate Alliance, an economic development cooperative of the Carolinas.
Peter Brown (Columbia) - Brown is Vice President of Colite International and a Managing Partner of Colite Outdoor, LLC. Colite International was recognized as the 2001 World Trader of the Year by the South Carolina World Trade Center. He has been an active Finance Committee member for DeMint for Senate. He served on Governor Mark Sanford's finance team and was a member of Governor Sanford's Inaugural Committee. Mr. Brown also serves as Chairman for the South Carolina Jobs-Economic Development Authority. He is a graduate of the University of Notre Dame. He was previously employed by Milliken & Company prior to the founding of Colite International, Ltd. in 1992.
Bill Hewitt (Charleston) - Hewitt is a Board Member and Chairman of Polymer Group, Inc. He has served on numerous finance teams in the past including U.S. Senator Jim DeMint and Governor Mark Sanford. He is a Trustee of the Medical University of South Carolina and immediate Past Chair of Spoleto Festival USA. Hewitt has served on five corporate boards. He is also the immediate past Chair at the Citadel and was a Lieutenant Commander in the U.S. Coast Guard with tours of duty including command of the USCGC Cape Morgan and teaching electrical engineering at the Coast Guard Academy.
Senator Greg Ryberg (Aiken) - Senator Ryberg was first elected to the State Senate in 1993. Senator Ryberg serves as the Chairman of the Labor, Commerce, and Industry Committee. Ryberg is Chief Executive Officer of REI, Inc. With his wife Betty, he used to own a chain of convenience stores in South Carolina and Georgia. He is a graduate of Marquette University.
Background On South Carolina Finance Director:
Drea Byars Is A Republican Fundraising Consultant Based In Lexington, South Carolina. Over the last seven years, Drea has raised millions of dollars for South Carolina candidates and elected officials. She currently serves as State Finance Director for United States Senator Jim DeMint.
  