
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate four individuals to serve in his administration, his intention to appoint thirty-nine individuals and his designation of one individual to serve in his administration.
The President intends to nominate Joseph Gerard Sullivan to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Zimbabwe. A career member of the Senior Foreign Service, he has served since 1998 as Chief of Mission in Angola. From 1997 to 1998, he served as Chairman of the Israel-Lebanon Monitoring Group, served as the Special Coordinator for Haiti from 1996 to 1997, and served as the Principal Officer in Havana from 1993 to 1996. He has held a variety of other posts overseas and in Washington, D.C. including Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for Inter American Affairs and the Director of the Office of Central American Affairs. Sullivan is a graduate of Tufts University and received a Master's degree from Georgetown University.
The President intends to nominate Leslie Lenkowsky to be Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation for National and Community Service. He has served since 1997 as a Professor of Philanthropic Studies and Public Policy at Indiana University-Purdue University at Indianapolis Center on Philanthropy at Indiana University. From 1990 to 1997, Lenkowsky served as President of the Hudson Institute and from 1985 to 1990, he served as the President of the Institute for Educational Affairs. He is a member of various Academic and Civic Boards and Committees and has served on the Board of Directors at the Corporation for National and Community Service. He is a graduate of Franklin and Marshall College and received a Ph.D. from Harvard College.
The President intends to nominate John W. Keys to be Commissioner of Reclamation at the Department of Interior. Mr. Keys served with the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation from 1964 to 1998. From 1986 to 1998, Keyes was the Regional Director for the Pacific Northwest Region and served as the Assistant Regional Director of the Pacific Northwest Region from 1980 to 1986. He has held a variety of other positions within the Bureau including the Chief of the Colorado River Quality Office. A resident of Moab, Utah, he is a graduate of Georgia Institute of Technology and received a Master's degree from Brigham Young University.
The President intends to nominate Jose A. Fourquet to be United States Executive Director of the Inter-American Development Bank for a three year term. He has served with Goldman, Sachs and Company since 1996, first as Vice President of the Emerging Debt Market Sales Group and then as Vice President of the Office of Career Development. From 1988 to 1994, he was an Operations Officer with the Central Intelligence Agency, and was a member of the Secret Service from 1997 to 1998. Fourquet is a resident of New Jersey, is a graduate of Georgetown University and received a M. B. A. from Columbia University.
The President intends to appoint the following sixteen people to serve as Members of the Commission on Ocean Policy. The Commission was created by Congress in 2000. Twenty four nominees are presented to the President from Members of Congress: eight from the Majority Leader of the Senate, from which four are appointed; eight from the Speaker of the House, from which four are appointed; four from the Minority Leader of the Senate, from which two are appointed; four from the Minority Leader of the House, from which two are appointed; and four independently appointed by the President.
Appointees nominated by the Speaker of the House:
Robert Ballard of Connecticut
James D. Watkins of Maryland
Paul L. Kelly of Texas
Ted A. Beattie of Illinois
Appointees nominated by the Minority Leader of the House:
Lawrence Dickerson of Texas
Marc J. Hershman of Washington
Appointees nominated by the Majority Leader of the Senate:
Ed Rasmuson of Alaska
Christopher Koch of Virginia
Paul G. Gaffney of Washington, D.C.
Andrew A. Rosenberg of New Hampshire
Appointees nominated by the Minority Leader of the Senate:
James M. Coleman of Louisiana
Paul A. Sandifer of South Carolina
Appointees of the President:
William D. Ruckelshaus of Washington
Ann D'Amato of California
Frank Muller-Karger of Florida
Lilliam Barrone of New Jersey
The President intends to nominate the following twenty-three individuals to serve as Members of the President's Commission on White House Fellowships.
Brad Freeman of California to be designated Chairman.
James E. Bostic, Jr. of Georgia
Paul W. Brooks of Wyoming
Gilberto Cardenas of Indiana
Martha Chayet of Massachusetts
Ben Crenshaw of Texas
Robert M. Duncan of Kentucky
Clayton Fong of Washington
Valde Garcia of Michigan
Phillip J. Montante, J. of New York
Patrick F. Noonan of Maryland
Alan Novak of Pennsylvania
Paul Simon of Illinios
Rosemarie Avila of California
Fred Carter of South Carolina
Olden Lee of Arizona
William McGurn of New Jersey
Marcia Jackson of Texas
Angela Antonelli of Virginia
Bruno V. Manno of Ohio
Jimmy Gurule of Michigan
Manuel Lujen Jr., of New Mexico
Lawrence Richard Bearden of Arkansas
The President intends to designate J. Timothy O'Neill to be Chairman of the Federal Housing Finance Board. He has served as Director of the Federal Housing Finance Board since 1995, and from 1991 to 1992 he served as the Director of Congressional Affairs. O'Neill served as the Senior Legislative Manager for International Affairs from 1987 to 1991, and from 1986 to 1987 he was Deputy Director of the Office of Legislative Affairs at the U.S. Agency for International Development. He is a graduate of Georgetown University and Harvard Law School.
  