
    Following the endorsement of Everytown for Gun Safety, including Moms Demand Action, an organization fighting for commonsense reforms to prevent gun violence, Hillary Clinton issued the following statement:
"Every year, 33,000 Americans die from guns. That's an average of 90 per day. Countless others are injured. Too many of them are children. They are shot in small towns and in big cities. Sitting in a park with their friends.Riding the bus home from school. Watching TV in their living rooms. Working at their desks. They are our friends, our neighbors, our family.
"Across our country, Americans are standing up and saying: enough is enough. Mothers and fathers, survivors and students, mayors and responsible gun owners are demanding that we put the safety of our children and our communities ahead of the interests of the gun lobby.
"As a mother and a grandmother, I know nothing is more important than keeping our children safe. And I am honored to receive the endorsement of Everytown for Gun Safety, including Moms Demand Action for Gun Sense in America. They are fighting every day for commonsense gun safety measures and to end the epidemic of gun violence.
"The stakes in this election could not be higher. We need leaders in Washington who will close the loopholes that let guns fall into the wrong hands, and who will finally pass comprehensive background check legislation. We need leaders who will repeal the special legal immunity that the gun lobby secured for irresponsible gun makers and sellers, so they are finally held accountable for their products. What we don't need are the extreme and dangerous positions of Donald Trump, who has pledged to overturn President Obama's actions to strengthen background checks and mandate that every school in America allow guns in classrooms on his very first day in office.
"The gun lobby may be the most powerful lobby in Washington, but I believe that the American people are more powerful still. We are stronger together. We will not be intimidated. We will not back down. And as long as children anywhere are being killed by gun violence, we will keep fighting—because their lives are precious, and they deserve a president who stands up for them."
  