
    The President today announced his intention to appoint to the Office of Intergovernmental Affairs the following individuals who will report to Lee L. Verstandig, Assistant to the President for Intergovernmental Affairs.
Rick J. Neal, to be Deputy Assistant to the President for Intergovernmental Affairs and Director of the Office of Intergovernmental Affairs. Mr. Neal is presently serving as Special Assistant to the President for Intergovernmental Affairs. Prior to joining the White House in January 1981, he ran his own consulting firm, Rick Neal Co. From 1976 to 1978, he was administrative assistant to Congressman Mickey Edwards (R-Okla.). He graduated from Southwestern State University in Oklahoma (B.A., 1970). He was born on June 23, 1947, in Downey, Calif.
C. A. Howlett, to be Special Assistant to the President for Intergovernmental Affairs. He will be responsible for liaison with the local elected officials. Since 1976 Mr. Howlett has served as executive assistant to the mayor of Phoenix, Ariz. (Mayor Margaret Hance). From 1974 to 1976, he was special assistant to the former mayor of Phoenix (Mayor Timothy Barrow). He has a B.A. and M.A. from the University of Colorado in Boulder, Colo. He was born October 16, 1943, in Pueblo, Colo.
Robert R. Gleason, Jr., to be Special Assistant to the President for Intergovernmental Affairs. He will be responsible for liaison with State legislators. Mr. Gleason has been on the Intergovernmental Affairs staff since March 1981, first as deputy to the Special Assistant working with State legislators, then as executive assistant to the Assistant to the President for Intergovernmental Affairs. Prior to serving in the White House, Mr. Gleason was with the Republican National Committee. He was graduated from Tri-State College, Angola, Ind. (B.A., 1969). He was born March 26, 1947, in Jersey City, N.J.
Edmund S. Hawley, to be Special Assistant to the President for Intergovernmental Affairs. Mr. Hawley is presently serving as Deputy Assistant Secretary for Governmental Affairs at the Department of Transportation, and recently he served as Acting Assistant Secretary. Previously he was Executive Director of the Office of Governmental Affairs at the Department of Transportation. He joined DOT in January 1981 from the Boston law firm of Gaston Snow & Ely Bartlett, and prior to that he was legislative assistant to Senator John H. Chafee. Mr. Hawley earned a J.D. degree from the University of Virginia Law School and a B.A. degree from Brown University.
Jocelyn White, to be Deputy to the Special Assistant to the President for Intergovernmental Affairs. She will be responsible for liaison with Governors. Ms. White has been on the Intergovernmental Affairs staff since September 1982, as staff assistant to the Assistant to the President for Intergovernmental Affairs. Prior to serving in the White House, she was manager of regulatory affairs for a trade association, Can Manufacturers Institute. From 1978 to 1981, she was a paralegal with Beveridge, Fairbanks, and Diamond. Ms. White graduated from St. Lawrence University in 1975 with a B.A. in government. She was born on June 6, 1953, in Cleveland, Ohio.
Susan B. Lauffer, to be Executive Assistant for Intergovernmental Affairs. Ms. Lauffer has served as Congressional Relations Officer at the Department of Transportation since May 1981. During the past 3 months, she also coordinated the Agency's legislative efforts for the Acting Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency. Previously she was manager, government affairs, at G. D. Searle in Skokie, Ill., in 1976-1981. She was Presidential Interchange Executive and Congressional Relations Officer at the Department of Transportation in 1973- 1976, and supervisor, public affairs, at the Quaker Oats Co. in 1972. Ms. Lauffer earned a B.A. degree from Northwestern University in Evanston, Ill.
W. Timothy Locke, to be Special Assistant to Lee Verstandig, Assistant to the President for Intergovernmental Affairs. Mr. Locke has worked in a similar capacity with Lee Verstandig at both the Department of Transportation and the Environmental Protection Agency since March 1982. Mr. Locke, a native of Tennessee, had previously served on the staff of U.S. Senate Majority Leader Howard H. Baker, Jr., in 1977-1981. Mr. Locke earned a B.A. degree from the University of Mississippi.
  