
    Pool Reports by Geoff Earle, Daily Mail 



Sent:
Reports:




June 19, 2023 09:00 EDT

Out of town pool 1 - checking in
Good morning and happy Juneteenth from the Gordons Pond LZ.
Pool was swept at the state park, while a shirtless and shoeless man had his morning beach plans delayed by security, and a passing cyclist urged the pool: "don't go easy on him."
Pool is now holding for departure. 


June 19, 2023 09:34 EDT

Travel pool 2 - MI liftoff - Going to California
The Potus motorcade arrived at 9:27. Potus exited his SUV and boarded M1 at 9:28 with a salute.
Pool was held at a considerable distance.
MI lifted at 9:34 at the start of the president's trip to SF. 


June 19, 2023 09:40 EDT

Travel pool 3 - travelers
Per the WH:
Traveling with the President aboard Marine One en route to Dover Air Force Base:
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations 




Pool Reports below by Alex Gangitano, The Hill 



Sent:
Reports:




June 19, 2023 10:03 EDT

Travel pool #1
Good morning, I'll be your pooler for the president's trip to California this week.
The president landed at Dover Air Force base at 9:56am.
He boarded AF1 at 10am to fly to California.
He waved to the press but didn't answer shouted questions about if he's spoken to Sec Blinken. He was wearing black pants, a blue blazer, and a blue shirt no tie.
Press secretary Karine Jean-Pierre is expected to gaggle on the flight. And, below is the schedule for when we land.
PDT
12:25 PM THE PRESIDENT arrives in Santa Clara County, California Moffett Federal Airfield, Santa Clara County, California  Open Press
1:15 PM THE PRESIDENT delivers remarks on his administration's historic action to combat the climate crisis, create good-paying clean energy jobs, and protect our environment for future generations Lucy Evans Baylands Nature Interpretive Center and Preserve, Palo Alto, California  Supplemental Pool
3:30 PM THE PRESIDENT participates in a campaign reception Los Gatos, California  Restricted Supplemental Pool
6:15 PM THE PRESIDENT participates in a campaign reception Atherton, California  Restricted Supplemental Pool 


June 19, 2023 10:07 EDT

Travel pool #2
AF1 will be wheels up shortly.
Passing along from the White House-
Greeting the President upon arrival at Dover Air Force Base:
Colonel Matt Husemann, Commander, 436th Airlift Wing
Traveling with the President aboard Air Force One en route to Moffett Federal Airfield:
Dr. Arati Prabhakar, Assistant to the President & Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations Karine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press Secretary Vinay Reddy, Assistant to the President & Director of Speechwriting Ali Zaidi, Assistant to the President & National Climate Advisor Ben LaBolt, Assistant to the President & Director of Communications Anne Neuberger, Deputy Assistant to the President & Deputy National Security Advisor for Cyber & Emerging Technology Ashley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office Operations Marc Gustafson, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for the White House Situation Room Travis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director John McCarthy, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the Counselor to the President 


June 19, 2023 12:17 PDT

Travel pool #3- touch down
AF1 was wheels up at 10:11am ET and just landed at 12:15pm PT.
Jean-Pierre gaggled on the flight for 19 minutes. 


June 19, 2023 12:39 PDT

Travel pool #4
POTUS deplaned at 12:33 and spoke on the tarmac with Gov Newsom, Rep Eshoo and the other greeters for 3 minutes. Pool couldn't hear the conversations.
Motorcade is rolling at 12:38pm.
We are heading to Lucy Evans Baylands Nature Interpretive Center and Preserve in Palo Alto, where the president is set to deliver remarks "on his administration's historic action to combat the climate crisis, create good-paying clean energy jobs, and protect our environment for future generations," per the WH guidance.
Greeting the President upon arrival at Moffett Federal Airfield:
Governor Gavin Newsom (CA) Rep. Anna Eshoo (CA-16) Susan Ellenberg, County Supervisor, Santa Clara County Eugene Tu, Center Director of NASA Ames Research Center 


June 19, 2023 12:41 PDT

Travel pool #5
Passing along from the WH-
Traveling with the President via motorcade en route to Lucy Evans Baylands Nature Interpretive Center and Preserve, Palo Alto, California:
Governor Gavin Newsom (CA) Rep. Anna Eshoo (CA-16) Susan Ellenberg, County Supervisor, Santa Clara County Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations Karine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press Secretary Vinay Reddy, Assistant to the President & Director of Speechwriting Ali Zaidi, Assistant to the President & National Climate Advisor Ben LaBolt, Assistant to the President & Director of Communications Ashley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office Operations Marc Gustafson, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for the White House Situation Room Travis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director John McCarthy, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the Counselor to the President 


June 19, 2023 13:03 PDT

Travel pool #6- holding
Motorcade arrived at 12:51pm and we are holding in an outdoor area at the nature center.
A couple dozen chairs are set up in front of a podium along the bay.
We have not seen POTUS yet. 


June 19, 202313:09 PDT

Travel pool #7- event strarts
Biden, Newsom and Eshoo walked along a bridge over the bay. They then walked up to the event area and Newsom is now speaking.
You can stream the full event and president's remarks here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TbKPuEwkmsw
Passing along from the WH-
The President is receiving a briefing on the actions California is taking to build resilience to the increasingly severe impacts of climate change.
Participants Governor Gavin Newsom (CA) Rep. Anna Eshoo (CA-16) Chiena Ty, environmental student 


June 19, 2023 13:10 PDT

Travel pool #8
Passing along from the WH-
The President is delivering remarks on his administration's historic action to combat the climate crisis, create good-paying clean energy jobs, and protect our environment for future generations.
Attendees Governor Gavin Newsom (CA) Rep. Anna Eshoo (CA-16) Susan Ellenberg, County Supervisor, Santa Clara County Mayor Lydia Kou, Palo Alto, California State Senator Josh Becker (CA) State Assemblymember Marc Berman (CA)  Chiena Ty, environmental student Elected officials, climate advocates, & community leaders
Speaking Program Governor Gavin Newsom (CA) Chiena Ty, environmental student & introducer The President 


June 19, 2023 13:35 PDT

Travel pool #9
Event wrapped and motorcade is rolling at 1:34pm.
He spoke briefly to reporters after his remarks, while he was greeting guests.
Q: Have you spoke to Blinken?
"I've been communicating with him through Sullivan."
"He did a hell of a job," he added, referring to Blinken.
Biden smiled and laughed when asked about "DeSantis being in Sacramento, the same place he sent migrants."
"It's hard to comment on things like that," he said. 


June 19, 2023 14:25 PDT

Travel pool #10
Motorcade arrived at the next stop at 2:09pm for the president to participate in a campaign reception.
From the WH-
On behalf of the Biden-Harris campaign:
The President's first fundraiser this afternoon in Los Gatos is at the home of Shannon Hunt-Scott and Kevin Scott, co-hosted by Reid Hoffman and is in support of the Biden Victory Fund.
Speaking Program Shannon Hunt-Scott  The President
We drove through lovely neighbors and up hills. People stood at their driveways to watch the motorcade. One woman had a 'Biden 2020' sign with a 0 crossed out and a 4 added. 


June 19, 2023 14:38 PDT

Travel pool #11- more quotes
Hi all, more from Biden about Blinken. Thanks to Akayla Gardner for the assist with audio.
Q: Have you spoke to Blinken?
"I've been communicating through Sullivan with him."
"He did a hell of a job," he added, referring to Blinken. "We're on the right trail here."
Q: Do you feel like progress was made during the meeting?
"I don't feel, you know it's been made. You don't have to ask that way. You can ask how much progress was made." 


June 19, 2023 15:49 PDT

Travel pool #12- Biden quotes
Biden walked out at 2:51pm to a standing ovation from the roughly 40 people sitting in chairs in front of a podium.
The deck of the home had a bar and cocktail tables set up with flags to celebrate pride on display. The deck overlooks an incredible view of the Santa Cruz mountains.
Biden was introduced by Shannon Hunt- Scott.
Quotes from Biden—
"It is true that, I remember when I ran the first time, I made a speech at Independence Hall one night… I talked about that I thought democracy was at risk and I defined what I thought democracy was. The press, understandably, was somewhat skeptical about why the heck I was talking about democracy the way I did. It turns out after that speech was over, for the next couple of weeks, it turned out there were 65 percent of the American people who registered saying they were concerned as well.
"We're the most unique nation in the history of the world, we're uniquely a product of our political institutions, unlike any other nation. Not that we're better or worse, just unique" he said. "We're based on an idea…we've never fully lived up to it but we're never in the past since, way back in the Civil War, walked away from it. We've never walked away from it."
He told a story about "when you got me election," he didn't realize there was a requirement the outgoing president be out of the office at 10am on the 20th before the incoming president can come in. Biden said he asked his brother, Jim, to decorate and presidential historian Jon Meacham helped out.
"When I came in that day, the other guy, don't worry, he never showed up at all," he said about Trump, to laughs from the crowd. "But any rate, what happened was, I look over the mantel piece."
He said there was a big portrait of Roosevelt and smaller portraits of Washington and Lincoln.
"I said why?" And Meacham told him, "not since Roosevelt has any president inherited such a circumstance internationally where there is so much as stake in terms of the world economy as well."
And why Lincoln? "Because the country's never been so divided since then."
"I'm convinced that the vast majority of the American people still understand who we are and what we're about."
"We inherited a circumstance where we had, the economy was in disarray, we had an America First policy that was not doing very well around the world."
"We were, once again, beginning to be respected by the rest of the world."
Said spent over 180 hours with other leaders either in a group, individually, or "on Zoom."
He told the story about his first G7 meeting after he was election- "I said well America's back and Macron looked at me and said how long? He wasn't being a wise guy."
"When I was told folks I was going to try to get Japan engaged and change their attitude… towards Korea. Their budget, in terms of their military budget and their engagement in Europe. It's never happened before, well it's happened. They're engaged in a big way."
"Things are moving. Things are moving in terms of what's happening in as well in Europe, in terms of the NATO cohesion, etc."
"I guess the reason why I'm so optimistic is the rest of the world is like everybody else, they want to get something done. They want some sense of normalcy."
"The idea that in one week span every major environmental group would endorse me and then the following week, I'd be endorsed by a group of people who you'd think would have trouble with the environmental groups, the major labor unions."
"I guess what I'm trying to say is, I think there's a hunger for a unity based on rationality."
"People know that we've lost something, that sort of center… that glue that kind of held democracy, rock bottom to who we were."
"I'm confident about this election because of the people I'm standing for… I'm confident because I Think there is a sense of wanting to finish the job."
On the country's job creation numbers and unemployment statistics, Biden said: "You are all very successful businesswomen and men. You understand that everything is fragile. But I think if we keep moving, we can get things done."
On guns, he called for universal background checks, being able to sue gun manufacturers.
"I think it's critically important that we lock down the –how can I say it – the sense, the idea that there are more children being killed in America by gunshots than by any other sort of thing."
"I own two shotguns. I'm not big a hunter."
He referenced parents who are civilly liable if their child drove their car and struck someone. "Well, you should have to lock up your guns. What's the big damn deal about that?"
"The right to choose should be a right left between a woman and her doctor."
"We're not going to be able to pass a constitutional amendment but tell you what we can do. We can pass a national law taking Roe v. Wade and codifying it in every state."
He brought up Sen. Tuberville's hold on military promotions although did not mention the senator by name. "Because the military said if you're in the military and you're having a troubled pregnancy and you're in a state where you're not allowed to see the doctor performing any remedial operation on you, then you can get paid – you can have leave to go to where you can do that."
"I know I don't look like I've been around but I've been around a long time."
"There's so many things of consequence that we can solve. And the vast majority of people, all the data shows, support the positions we're generically taken. It's not like these are wacko ideas that we've come up with."
"I'm talking too much. The view is incredible."
Big thanks to Jen Haberkorn for the assist! 


June 19, 2023 16:03 PDT

Travel pool #13- on the move
Motorcade is rolling to the next location at 3:58pm.
We did not see Biden leave the event and we have been holding in the vans since the pool left after the remarks.
A couple of adds to the quotes during the last fundraiser-- Biden called Tuberville a "former football coach from Alabama."
"It's bizarre, I don't remember it happening before," he added about the situation with the senator holding up military promotions. 


June 19, 2023 16:50 PDT

Travel pool #14
Motorcade arrived at the next location in Atherton, Calif., at 4:41pm. We are holding ahead of the campaign reception.
The drive was uneventful. There are signs at the property roughly across the street from where the reception is that read "82 too old 4 us" and "don't run Joe." 


June 19, 2023 17:40 PDT

Travel pool #15
We are holding inside the reception for the president's remarks.
On behalf of the Biden-Harris campaign:
The President's second fundraiser in Atherton is at the home of Steve and Anita Westly and is in support of the Biden Victory Fund.
Speaking Program Steve Westly The President 


June 19, 2023 18:43 PDT

Travel pool #16
Biden walked in to applause from the over 100 attendees. Rep. Eshoo was in the audience.
"How often do you have a chance to stand with the most powerful person in the world?" the host Steve Westly said and Biden gave himself the sign of the cross to laughter from the crowd.
The president talked for around 34 minutes.
The motorcade started rolling at 6:21pm.
Quotes from Biden-
Biden called out two recent college graduates in the front row. He then thanked Eshoo for the passport into the district.
"A lot of you have been helping me for a long long time."
"The only thing that comes from serving a long time in office is you get to know a lot of people."
He said that when he was VP, it was clear President Xi would be president and he got to know him.
"I traveled 17,000 miles with him, usually on on one. And we got to know eachother, fairly well."
He said Xi asked him to define America and he said "possibilities."
"The last time we decided we could go it alone, America First. There wasn't much coordination. We stopped talking to eachother."
Biden said as VP in his morning meetings with President Obama, Obama would ask him what he thought the temperature was in Hawaii. Then he would talk about "how all politics is personal."
"You may remember when I became president I checked with the intelligence community to see if I could, without any, hurting anyone individual, let the world know that for the first time since World War II, 135,000 people were going to invade another country. I said, I predicted."
"I told- at the time, it was clear. And I told the Ukrainians that they were going to be invaded, they didn't believe it either."
He said when he decided to run in 2020, he had started to write a book about American inflection points. Said it's happened about 8 times in modern history.
"And we're at one of those junctures, mind you."
"Think what we inherited when we came to office. The economy in disarray. The circumstance where we were the America First crowd. We were disregarded, quite frankly, by the vast of our allies around the world."
Told the story about Macron asking how long is America back at his first G7.
"I had two jobs you elected me to do. First was to reestablish American leadership in the world. Not so we can beat our chest. Because if we don't do it, no one will get it done."
"It doesn't mean we're better than anybody else."
Biden said every other country is constructed around their ethnicity, religion or geography.
"We're the only country in the world, we're united based on an idea. It's not hyperbole. It's a fact. … we hold these truths to be self evident…"
The United States is the "lynchpin that most democracies around the world look to to keep things going."
"Madeline Albright was right when she said we're the essential nation."
"NATO is more united than it's ever been in the entire history of NATO because we work together.
"We had to figure out how to unite the country. The press understandably – I'm not criticizing the press when I say this – the press sort of made light of my saying 'unite America.' How can a democracy function without the consent of the governed?"
Brought up the bipartisan infrastructure bill to cheers from the crowd.
Talked about the CHIPs and Science bill- "we invented the computer chip."
"We changed the law, we invested significant amounts of money."
"We're in a situation now where we have all of that... $300 billion just for building fabs."
On why he's pro union- "you don't educate your work force anymore".
Said DuPont in Delaware used to spend the money to educate its workforce but now that doesn't happen.
Someone's phone rang and he joked, "he keeps calling me."
Called climate change the "existential change to the United States and the economy"
"We can do it, we can deal with it, we can make it happen and we can create millions of good paying jobs."
Talked about the endorsements from environmental groups and from major unions to applause.
"Guess what, everybody's kind of figured it out."
"We can do a lot more to lower costs but again, I'm beginning to bore myself." The crowd laughed.
"What are the things that are going to be consequential to our grandchildren and our great grandchildren?"
"I think we're on the trail to making sure that were going to be able to do both— have a safer world because America's engaging in a way that it hasn't in the past…as well as making sure that we have an economy that benefits everyone. Because there's nothing worse than denying somebody who's busting their neck the dignity of the job."
Thanks to Jen Haberkorn for help with quotes! 


June 19, 2023 19:12 PDT

Travel pool #17- lid
The motorcade stopped at the hotel in San Francisco at 7:07pm.
And we have a lid.
More to come tomorrow! Have a good night. 




Pool Report below by David Smith, The Guardian 



Sent:
Reports:




June 19, 202312:43 EDT

WH in-town pool report #1/ Press Secretary gaggle
Hi all,
The White House press office sends the following:
'Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre will gaggle aboard Air Force One at 12:35pm.' 



  