
    President Donald J. Trump today announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key positions in his Administration:
James Clinger of Pennsylvania to be a member of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation for a term of six years and to be Chairperson for a term of five years, effective November 29, 2017. Mr. Clinger was most recently currently the Chief Counsel for the House Committee on Financial Services, having held this position since 2007. Mr. Clinger previously served as Deputy Assistant Attorney General from 2005 to 2007. Prior to his service at the Department of Justice, Mr. Clinger served as Senior Banking Counsel for the House Committee on Financial Services from 2001 to 2005, and as Assistant Staff Director from 1995 to 2001. Before entering public service, he was a litigation attorney at the firm Sutherland Asbill and Brennan from 1987 to 1995. Mr. Clinger graduated from University of Virginia with a BA in 1983 and a JD in 1987.
Gregory Doud of Kansas to be Chief Agricultural Negotiator, with the Rank of Ambassador, United States Trade Representative. Mr. Doud is the current President of the Commodity Markets Council, where he has served since 2013. Prior to that, he was a senior Professional Staff member of the Senate Agriculture Committee for Senator Pat Roberts and Senator Thad Cochran. While working for the Senate Agriculture Committee, Mr. Doud assisted in drafting the 2012 Senate Farm Bill, along with legislation regarding many other issues. Mr. Doud also spent eight years as the Chief Economist for the National Cattlemen's Beef Association. He has also worked for the U.S. Wheat Associates and the World Perspectives firm. Mr. Doud was raised on a farm near Mankato, Kansas. He owns part of his family's farm that is more 100 years old and operated by his parents. Mr. Doud received a BS in Agriculture and a MS in Agricultural Economics from Kansas State University. He was named the Outstanding Young Alumnus of the Kansas State University Agriculture Alumni Association. Gregg and his family live on their horse farm in Lothian, Maryland.
John H. Gibson II of Texas to be Deputy Chief Management Officer of the Department of Defense. Mr. Gibson was most recently President, Chief Executive Officer of XCOR Aerospace, Inc., a developer of rocket engine systems and components and space launch systems. Mr. Gibson was also Chairman of the Advisory Committee, Looking Glass Investments. Mr. Gibson previously held several senior leadership positions with Beechcraft including Senior Vice President of Global Mission Support, Vice President of Special Mission Aircraft, and Vice President of Finance (CFO), Government, and Defense Business. Mr. Gibson also served as the Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Financial Management/Comptroller and CFO, as well as Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Management Reform. In addition, Mr. Gibson has held numerous other leadership and management positions in the private sector. Mr. Gibson is a graduate of the University of Texas at Austin and the University of Dallas, and is a recipient of the Air Force Award for Exceptional Civilian Service.
Robert P. Storch of the District of Columbia to be Inspector General for the National Security Agency. Mr. Storch has been the Deputy Inspector General at the Department of Justice (DOJ) since March 2015. He also is the DOJ Office of the Inspector General (OIG) Whistleblower Ombudsperson and chairs the Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency Whistleblower Ombudsman Working Group. He previously was Senior Counsel and Counselor to the Inspector General, and Acting Deputy Inspector General from 2014 to 2015. Mr. Storch worked in the U.S. Attorney's Office for the Northern District of New York from 1995 to 2012, most recently serving as Deputy Criminal Chief and Counsel to the U.S. Attorney. From 2007 to 2009, he was posted as a DOJ Resident Legal Advisor in Ukraine. He previously served as Chief of the Appellate Division and Senior Litigation Counsel, and as the District's initial Anti-Terrorism Coordinator. Earlier in his career, he worked at the Public Integrity Section of the Criminal Division at DOJ and as an Assistant U.S. Attorney in the Middle District of Florida. He has received a number of commendations, including from the Assistant Attorneys General for the Criminal and the Civil Rights Divisions of DOJ and the Director of the FBI. Mr. Storch received his AB, magna cum laude, from Harvard, and his JD from Columbia. He clerked for the Hon. William D. Keller in the Central District of California, and then worked at the law firm of Covington and Burling before joining DOJ in 1987.
----------
President Donald J. Trump Announces Intent to Appoint Personnel to Key Administration Posts
President Donald J. Trump today announced his intent to appoint the following individuals to key positions in his Administration:
Donald P. Loren of Virginia to be an Assistant Secretary of Veterans Affairs, Operations, Security and Preparedness. Mr. Loren currently works as CEO and President of Old Dominion Strategies LLC, a service disabled Veteran small business. He previously as a Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Homeland Security Integration. Prior to his civilian government experience he served 31 years in the United States Navy, retiring as a Rear Admiral. Mr. Loren received his BS from the United States Naval Academy.
Peter J. Shelby of Wisconsin to be an Assistant Secretary of Veterans Affairs, Human Resources and Administration. Mr. Shelby is Principal and Founder of Transcendent Performance, an HR and talent development consulting practice. Previously, Mr. Shelby was a Senior Vice President with Related Companies in New York City. Prior to his work in the private sector, Mr. Shelby served in several human capital leadership roles in the Intelligence Community, including Associate Dean at National Intelligence University, Chief Learning Officer for National Reconnaissance Office (NRO), and Deputy for Learning and Development for the Defense Intelligence Agency. Mr. Shelby retired from the Marine Corps as a Major after 24 years of enlisted and commissioned officer service. Mr. Shelby holds an MBA in Human Resources Management from Northcentral University, and a Master of Arts in Adult Education from George Mason University. He received his BA in English Literature (Summa Cum Laude) from The Citadel. He is a certified Senior Professional in Human Resources, and SHRM Senior Certified Professional.
  