
    STATEMENT OF ADMINISTRATION POLICY
(Senate)
The Administration supports child care legislation that is consistent with the following principles established by the President:

Assistance should go directly to parents, who are best able to make decisions about their children. Parents, and not the government, should choose the child care they consider best.  
Federal policy should increase, not decrease, the range of choices available to parents.  
New Federal support for child care should be targeted to families most in need.  
Federal policy should not discriminate against two parent families in which one parent works at home to care for their children.

S. 5 violates all of the President's principles:

S. 5 puts its trust in government, not parents. Assistance does not go directly to parents. It is provided to States, which have the ultimate decision-making power on the care children will receive — whether the care is provided under contracts, grants, or certificates.  
S. 5 provides assistance to two parent families only when both parents are employed, perpetuating the current discrimination against those families which sacrifice income so that one parent can work at home to care for their children.  
S. 5 decreases the range of child care choices available to parents. All care subsidized by S. 5, including care provided by relatives, must be totally non-sectarian in nature and content — a significant limitation on parental choice. S. 5 also mandates Federal standards that will limit the supply of providers and drive up prices, further diminishing parental choice.  
S. 5 is not well targeted and would serve only a fraction of families most in need. One million children, at most, would receive subsidies in 1990, and they could be from families with incomes more than four times the poverty level.

In addition, S. 5 sets up a huge bureaucracy with significant administrative overhead costs that will reduce the monies available to parents.
FLAWED ALTERNATIVE (THE "MITCHELL SUBSTITUTE")
The alternative advanced by the Majority Leader — the "Mitchell substitute" — is an attempt to ameliorate the highly objectionable features of S. 5. Although it includes a tax credit that is not inconsistent with the President's principles, it is fundamentally flawed because:

It provides direct assistance through tax credits only to families who pay for child care and health insurance. These conditions constrain parental choice and deny assistance to families who are in as great or greater need than those who receive the credits.  
It does not resolve the Church-State problem. The substitute retains the requirement that care be non-sectarian in nature and content. New language indicates that care subsidized through State-issued certificates is not subject to this requirement if it comports with constitutional law. The Mitchell substitute merely states a truism: that no government monies may be awarded in violation of the Establishment Clause of the First Amendment of the Constitution. The new language does not eliminate the bill's fundamental problem — that religiously affiliated child care providers participating in a certificate program will be subjected to expensive, intrusive and invasive litigation and government regulation. These problems consequently will deter use of certificates and encourage the use of grants and contracts, which are subject to the non-sectarian requirement.  
It retains the biases in favor of institutional care and against care provided by informal providers, such as friends and neighbors. Only providers who are licensed or regulated, who are determined by the State to be "eligible providers," and who comply with government paperwork requirements can be paid for care under the substitute. The uncertainty about what constitutes acceptable practice when child care subsidies are provided through certificates only compounds this bias.  
The tax credit and grant funds earmarked for child care services benefit only those two parent families in which both parents work outside the home. This perpetuates the discrimination against two parent families in which one parent works at home to care for the children. Because two-earner families have higher incomes than "traditional" families, and because the substitute discriminates against "traditional" families, it is not only unfair; it is also poorly targeted with respect to those in need.

PRESIDENT'S PROPOSAL
The President's tax-based proposal (S. 601) is clearly superior to S. 5 and the Mitchell substitute. It provides all assistance directly to parents, allowing them to decide for themselves how best to meet their children's needs. Assistance is targeted to low-income families, and 100% of the families who meet income and family composition requirements receive assistance. Two parent families in which one parent works at home to care for the children are eligible for the Child Tax Credit, which is not conditioned upon their making expenditures specified by the government.
The President has indicated that he is firm in his devotion to the principles underlying his proposal, but that he is flexible on how best to achieve them. As the Senate acts on child care legislation, the Administration seeks to advance a bill that best reflects the President's principles and prevents the S. 5- Mitchell approach.
DOLE-PACKWOOD SUBSTITUTE
We understand that Senators Dole and Packwood will propose an amendment to perfect the Mitchell substitute that does the following. It emphasizes direct assistance to parents by providing tax credits to low-income families with children. It includes an Earned Income Tax Credit (EITC) supplement for young children, which benefits two parent families in which one parent cares for the children at home. This supplement, which is similar to the President's Child Credit, could be used for, but is not conditioned upon, the purchase of health insurance. The amendment also makes the current Dependent and Child Care Tax Credit refundable, as proposed by the President. It retains the Head Start authorization increase and revenue measures in the Mitchell substitute.
This amendment clearly is far more consistent with the President's principles than S. 5 or the Mitchell substitute. It provides for greater parental choice and better targeting of those in need; it reduces discrimination against mothers who work at home; and it does not discriminate against parents who favor sectarian child care. Accordingly, the Administration favors Senate passage of the Dole-Packwood Amendment.
If S. 5 or the Mitchell child care bill were presented to the President, his senior advisors would recommend that he veto it.
  