
    Pool Reports by Todd J. Gillman, The Dallas Morning News 



Sent:
Reports:




June 17, 2023 09:16

pool report #1/departing the White House
The motorcade rolled from the White House at 9:15 am, heading for Joint Base Andrews. 


June 17, 2023 09:37

Pool report #2/Andrews arrival
Uneventful motorcade.
The Beast pulled to a stop at Air Force One at 9:37am.
Handing off to travel pool under the wing. 


June 17, 2023 09:44

Pool report #3/Biden spoke on tarmac
The president boarded Air Force One at 9:41am on the lower stairs after speaking at some length with the travel pool.
Intown pool hung far back at the vans and awaits details from travel pool.
Traveling with the President via motorcade en route to Joint Base Andrews:
Steve Ricchetti, Assistant to the President & Counselor to the President Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations Mitch Landrieu, Senior Advisor & Infrastructure Implementation Coordinator Travis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director Terry Wolff, Special Assistant to the President & National Security Council Senior Director for MENA Herbie Ziskend, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Communications Sheila Grant, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Presidential Speechwriter John McCarthy, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the Counselor to the President 


June 17, 2023 10:15

pool report #4/Biden's full comments on China, Ukraine, Russia
President Biden's comments on the tarmac at Joint Base Andrews. Travel poolers had very little time before wheels up so I asked print pooler Geoff Earle for the audio. His co-pooler Zolan Kanno-Youngs sent his file, moments after they were wheels up for Philadelphia. This is best I can make out over the white noise of Air Force One:
Biden:
"The only reason I'm going to Philadelphia is it's my wedding anniversary."
"Anyway the reason I'mexcited about today, just like we did last week with the environmental groups, I think I'm told this is the first time ever this early that every single union has endorsed. I'm told that has never happened. And the good news about that is I also met yesterday with some business people. Business people and unions are beginning to work together. So I'm excited about this is the beginning of something big, and we'll begin changing the economic balance."
Q. What kind of campaign do you think you're gonna have? Is it going to be a nasty A. "It depends on who the nominee is."
Q. Can Blinken ease tensions with China on this trip?
A. "China has some legitimate difficulties unrelated to the United States. And I think one of the things that that balloon caused was not so much that it got shot down. But I don't think the leadership knew where it was, and knew what was in it, and knew what was going on. I think it was more embarrassing than it was intentional. And so I'm hoping that over the next several months I'll be meeting with Xi again, and talking about legitimate differences we have but also how (garble) to get along."
Q. "Are you going to make it easier for Ukraine to join NATO" A. "No. Because they've got to meet the same standards. So we're not going to make it easy." We've done a lot to make sure they can "ability to coordinate militarily." (very hard to hear, there's a bit more, and a mention of Poland). The need to "meet all the standards." (we'll need help from the official transcript for the full quotes here)
Q. Do you have a comment on Russia and a deployment of tactical nuclear weapons to Belarus A. "I've commented on that many times. It's totally irresponsible."
Then a question about Minneapolis police that he didn't not apparently answer before boarding. 




Pool Reports below by Geoff Earle, Daily Mail 



Sent:
Reports:




June 17, 2023 09:48

Out of town pool 1
Out of town pool report 1 - leaving JBA
Potus gaggled outside AF1.
He spoke about the campaign, saying he's proud of union backing. Asked a potentially nasty campaign he said it depends on who the nominee is.
He also spoke about the spy balloon, his anniversary and Ukraine.
"China has some legitimate difficulties," he said.
Asked if he would make it easier for Ukraine to join NATO he responded with a "No."
He said they have to meet the same standards.
Said it was "totally irresponsible" when asked about Russia tactical nukes in Belarus.
More quotes TK if time. Pls check transcript.
The lower stairs were down for him to board. 


June 17, 2023 10:43

Travel pool 2
Potus landed in Philly at 10:20 after an uneventful flight.
AF1 had lifted from JBA at 9:55 for the flight to Philly.
Pool spotted advisor Anita Dunn. Sen Fetterman (in shorts-hoodie combo), Sen Casey, Rep. Brendan Boyle, and Gov. Shapiro lined up to greet him.
Potus walked down the main stairs at 10:37 to greet, giving a salute on the way. He lingered for several minutes. Then he walked toward M1, putting his arm around Shapiro.
He is set to get an aerial tour aboard M1 with PA Gov. Shapiro to see the collapsed section of I-95 following last week's truck fire.
Pool is loading into an Osprey. 


June 17, 2023 11:23

Travel pool 3 - air tour done
Potus got an extended aerial tour of I-95 from Marine 1.
Pool didn't have a great view of the collapsed interstate, but fotogs had a view of Potus, who flew in M1 behind the pool Osprey, with the aft door open the whole time.
Tour lasted more than 40 minutes with some good views of the naval shipyard and center city. There was a bit of swerving, presumably to get a good angle.
Pool landed at Philly airport at 11:10. Pool didn't see Potus and is in the motorcade awaiting remarks following Potus briefing.
Thanks to co-pooler Zolan Kano-Youngs for the continued assist. 


June 17, 2023 11:36

Hangar- 2 mins to remarks
Pool is now in an airport hangar equipped with a pair of TVs and signs that say President Joe Biden Rebuilding I-95.
There has been intermittent smooth jazz piped into the large facility. There are flat screens all around with video live stream of construction.
2 minute warning for remarks. 


June 17, 2023 12:08

Travel pool 5
Biden spoke from a podium flanked by officials. He said the construction effort would continue "until it's totally finished."
"There's no more important project to the country right now as far as I'm concerned," he said.
He called it "All hands on deck" and said the feds would reimburse 100 percent for this phase of the work.
He pointed to $6.5B in Pennsylvania transpo funds with "some flexibility."
"Union crews have been hard at work 24/7," he said, calling the design innovative.
He gave hat tip to Mitch Landrieu with a joke about how Louisiana never has issues with disasters.
He said the governor is "doing one hell of a job," in a disaster throwback quote to the Bush era.
Shapiro, in a white shirt with no tie, also spoke. Behind him was Fetterman, still in shorts, while Casey had a white shirt and no tie.
"We will have I-95 reopened within the next two weeks," said Shapiro.
"This is our championship," he said with a flotus sports reference.
Fetterman spoke without notes or apparent auditory device. He spoke of visiting a collapsed bridge in Western Pa. with Biden.
"Guess what? That bridge was rebuilt in a year well well in front of time" he said.
He struggled a bit with the word infrastructure, concluding by saying "bridges all across American getting rebuilt."
"The president of the United States called me" said mayor Jim Kenny.
"I might add if I didn't I'd be sleeping alone," Biden added, noting his wife is a "Philly girl."
Then he went to view jars of recycled glass - 85 percent lighter than dirt fill - being used in the project.
"This is an example of the innovation as well," said Biden.
Landrieu and others were wearing mics so press could hear the conversation. There was local press as well.
Shapiro showed Biden the live feed and explained the construction plan.
Then Biden spoke about his optimism for the country.
"I'm not being parochial" Biden said. Noting the working class neighborhoods affected.
When it was over about noon, Biden chatted with union members. A piano quartet came on the system loudly enough to make shouted questions a no-go.
Pool is rolling to convention center. 


June 17, 2023 12:54

Travel pool 6 - union rally
Travel pool is inside what the WH calls a "political rally hosted by union members" at the convention center.
Spotted on way in were people in AFSCME shirts, SEIU, and pipefitters. Biden and Biden/Harris as well.
We are awaiting Potus remarks, expected around 2. Pooler is inquiring about any Potus' interim activities.
Per the WH, here is some info on personnel on this trip.
Greeting the President upon arrival at Joint Base Andrews:
Colonel Matthew Jones, 89th Airlift Wing
Traveling with the President via motorcade en route to the Pennsylvania Convention Center:
Senator Bob Casey (PA) Senator John Fetterman (PA) Rep. Brendan Boyle (PA-2) Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations Mitch Landrieu, Senior Advisor & Infrastructure Implementation Coordinator Mayor James Kenney, Philadelphia, PA Travis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director Herbie Ziskend, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Communications Sheila Grant, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Presidential Speechwriter John McCarthy, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the Counselor to the President
Traveling with the President aboard Air Force One en route to Philadelphia International Airport, Philadelphia:
Steve Ricchetti, Assistant to the President & Counselor to the President Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations Mitch Landrieu, Senior Advisor & Infrastructure Implementation Coordinator Travis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director Terry Wolff, Special Assistant to the President & National Security Council Senior Director for MENA Herbie Ziskend, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Communications Sheila Grant, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Presidential Speechwriter John McCarthy, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the Counselor to the President 


June 17, 2023 13:55

Travel pool 7 - Biden up - livestream - labor background
Potus is up.
Report 7 didn't go out so resending link.
On behalf of the Biden-Harris Campaign: The political rally hosted by union members at the Pennsylvania Convention Center will be live-streamed here: >http://aflcio.tv/<
Per Ray Zacaro, AFLCIO: approximately 2000 union members are in attendance at today's rally to endorse the President.
From Biden-Harris 2024 Campaign:
Background on President Biden as most pro-labor president in history:
Joe Biden has been an unwavering champion of the labor movement his entire career. He ran for president four years ago on a core message of rebuilding the middle class, because the President knows the way to grow the economy is to grow the middle class, and that starts with strong unions and labor representation.
President Biden is the most pro-union President in history. He's worked tirelessly to secure victories for unions and for workers:
Some of those wins include:


Ensuring the overwhelming majority of the investments in the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law and the CHIPS and Science Act are covered by Davis-Bacon prevailing wage requirements, preventing low-quality contractors from undercutting wages for millions of construction workers. 

Appointing a general counsel and board members to the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB) committed to protecting the right of workers to organize. 

Signing the Butch Lewis Emergency Pension Plan Relief Act, to ensure that struggling multiemployer pension plans will be able to fulfill their benefit obligations to retired workers through 2051. 

Raising the minimum wage for employees of federal contractors to $15 an hour. 

There are also clear signs that President Biden's approach to the economy – rebuilding from the middle out and the bottom up and moving beyond failed trickle-down approach – is paying off:


Creating more than 13 million jobs, including nearly 800,000 manufacturing jobs. 

Adding 339,000 jobs last month alone 

Unemployment below 4% for 16 months—a level Congressional Budget Office said in February 2021 it wouldn't reach until 2026. 

Historically low unemployment rates for African American workers, Hispanic workers, and workers with disabilities 

The lowest unemployment rate for women in 70 years. 

The share of working-age Americans in the workforce hasn't been higher in more than 20 years 

Yesterday's endorsement from AFL-CIO is their earliest presidential endorsement in history. Their endorsement comes alongside endorsements from other major unions participating in today's rally. As noted in AFL-CIO's endorsement yesterday, this endorsement unlocks strong organizing power from across the labor movement:
"Over the next 17 months, the labor movement will run its largest campaign ever to engage working people one on one on kitchen-table issues and President Biden's accomplishments. The AFL-CIO's campaign will be critical in battleground states where the union vote will prove decisive. When engaged, union members turn out at much higher rates than the general public. Millions of conversations at the door and in the worksite will be supplemented with cutting-edge digital outreach, peer-to-peer texting, and other tactics to ensure we're reaching workers on the issues that matter most to them. Hundreds of thousands of union volunteers are the backbone of this mobilization and will begin engaging voters immediately."


June 17, 2023 14:42

Travel pool 8 -- remarks done
Potus wrapped at 2:11 after about 25 minutes. He's doing selfies and working a rope line with members of the crowd who cheered.
Pool is moving. 


June 17, 2023 14:46

Travel pool 9 - rolling
Pool is back in the motorcade en route to the Philly airport. Started rolling at 2:44.
Potus was still snapping selfies when we left the room with Coldplay on the sound system.
WH official gaggled on various topics. Rep. Boyle also gaggled about the I-95 reconstruction effort and joining Potus on the tour. 


June 17, 2023 15:04

Travel pool 10 - Boarding AF1
Potus and flotus boarded AF1 about 3 pm.
Flotus went first. She wore an anniversary corsage on her hand. Potus guided her up the stairs.
On to Rehoboth. 


June 17, 2023 15:50

Travel pool 11 - Dover
AF1 landed at Dover 3:27 after a short, bumpy flight.
Potus exited from the lower stairs at 3:38.
Flotus was still wearing her union t shirt.
Ashley Biden exited behind Potus, carrying a water bottle and sporting ripped jeans.
Motorcade is rolling to Rehoboth.
Per the WH:
Greeting the President upon arrival at Dover Air Force Base:
Colonel Russell Gohn, Vice Commander, 436th Airlift Wing Mrs. April Gohn, Spouse of Colonel Gohn
________
Traveling with the President and the First Lady via motorcade en route to Rehoboth Beach, Delaware:
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations Anthony Bernal, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the First Lady Travis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director Terry Wolff, Special Assistant to the President & National Security Council Senior Director for MENA
Traveling with the President and the First Lady aboard Air Force One en route to Dover Air Force Base:
Steve Ricchetti, Assistant to the President & Counselor to the President  Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations Anthony Bernal, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the First Lady Anita Dunn, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President Travis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director Herbie Ziskend, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Communications Terry Wolff, Special Assistant to the President & National Security Council Senior Director for MENA John McCarthy, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the Counselor to the President Alana Mounce, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Office of Political Strategy Operations Krystal Ortiz, Special Assistant to the President & Director of Political Engagement 


June 17, 2023 16:48

Travel pool 12 - Pool holding Rehoboth
Motorcade lasted about an hour.
Potus peeled off from pool, which is now holding near his home, awaiting a sign of what comes next. 


June 17, 2023 17:41

Travel pool 13 - church
Motorcade rolled after 5:30. Pool is now holding outside St. Edmond's Church on King Charles Ave.


June 17, 2023 18:33

Travel pool 14 - left church
Potus left church at 6:23.
A pair of priests cam out in advance of his departure. Pool was gathered on a sidewalk about 15 feet back.
Then Potus came out, to cheers from people who waited for a glimpse. Ashley and Potus granddaughter Natalie Biden then chatted with Potus and the priests. More cheers as he turned to the Beast and have a quick wave.
Potus peeled off motorcade at his home.
We have a lid! Thanks again to copooler Zolan Kano-Youngs. 



  