
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate two individuals, designate two individuals and appoint one individual to serve in his Administration:
The President intends to nominate John G. Grimes, of Virginia, to be an Assistant Secretary of Defense (Networks and Information Integration). Mr. Grimes currently serves as Vice President of IIS Washington Operations for the Raytheon Company. He previously served as Deputy Assistant Secretary for Counterintelligence and Security Countermeasures at the Department of Defense. He also worked for the National Security Council, as Senior Director of the White House Situation Support Staff. From 1961 to 1981, Mr. Grimes held senior technical and staff positions with the U.S. Army. He began his military service with the U.S. Air Force in 1956. Mr. Grimes received his bachelor's degree from the University of Arizona and his master's degree from Shippensburg University. He is also a graduate of the U.S. Army War College.
The President intends to nominate Wan J. Kim, of Maryland, to be an Assistant Attorney General (Civil Rights) at the Department of Justice. Mr. Kim currently serves as Deputy Assistant Attorney General in the Civil Rights Division at the Department of Justice. He previously served as Assistant United States Attorney in the United States Attorney's Office for the District of Columbia. Prior to that, Mr. Kim was an Associate with Kellogg, Huber, Hansen, Todd & Evans, PLLC. Earlier in his career, he was a Trial Attorney for the Criminal Division at the Department of Justice. Mr. Kim received his bachelor's degree from Johns Hopkins University and his J.D. from the University of Chicago Law School.
The President intends to designate William Baxter, of Tennessee, to be Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Tennessee Valley Authority. Mr. Baxter currently serves as Director of the Tennessee Valley Authority. Prior to his appointment, he was Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Holston Gases, Inc., a distributor of industrial, medical and laboratory gases. Earlier in his career, Mr. Baxter served as Commissioner of Tennessee's Department of Economic and Community Development. He received his bachelor's degree from Duke University and his J.D. from the University of Tennessee School of Law.
The President intends to designate David A. Sampson, of Texas, to be a Director (Government Representative) of the Board of Directors of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation.
The President intends to appoint James L. Brulte, of California, to be a Member of the Board of Visitors to the United States Naval Academy, for the remainder of a three-year term expiring December 30, 2007.
  