
    In addition to the Members of the House and Senate who have been responsible for this legislation, we have the Ambassador from Mexico. The Ambassador is here because this legislation carries out a commitment that I made with President Echeverria in 19721 with regard to trying to solve the problem that has been a very difficult one between the United States and Mexico, going way back to the 1960's.
Special Ambassador Herbert Brownell worked on the problem for the United States, and an agreement was reached. The agreement required, of course, action by the Congress, and the Congress has acted responsibly. And as a result of the action of the Congress and the cooperation of both of us, the United States and Mexico have now reached an agreement which will be implemented on our side to improve the quality of water that Mexico receives from the Colorado River and which will also provide for certain projects in the United States which will deal with the necessity for maintaining adequate water supplies in the Colorado River Basin where it does affect the United States of America.
I want to congratulate the Members of the House and the Senate who have worked on this legislation. It was extremely difficult and has been very controversial. When one goes to Arizona or Wyoming or Colorado or others affected by this legislation, I have known over the years, certainly in the sixties, that I have heard that there was no answer to it. And now we have at last found what we believe is a fair end to it, fair to Mexico and fair also to those States in the United States that are affected by it.
So, I shall now sign the legislation with very great pleasure. This is the way international relationships should operate. Where both nations act with good faith, we can find peaceful solutions to very difficult problems.
Mr. Ambassador, we usually give the original pen to a Member of the House or the Senate upon the signing of the legislation. But in view of the fact you are here, I would like to give you this pen, with which this historic legislation was signed, for presentation to the President of Mexico.
  