
    STATEMENT OF ADMINISTRATION POLICY
(House Floor)(Sponsors: Obey (D), Wisconsin; Smith (D), Iowa)
This Statement of Administration Policy provides the Administration's views on H.R. 4606, the Labor, Health and Human Services, Education, and Related Agencies Appropriations Bill, FY 1995, as reported by the House Appropriations Committee. While the Administration has some concerns, the most critical of which are discussed below, we urge the House to approve the bill.
President's Investment Initiatives 
The Administration appreciates the Committee's funding of high-priority investment proposals such as school-to-work. National Institutes of Health (NIH), Ryan White Act AIDS treatment, immunization, and disability processing. Funding for these programs will help advance the Administration's investment agenda and we are grateful for the extra efforts made by the Committee to accommodate them.
Although funding for investment programs under the jurisdiction of the Committee such as Goals 2000, drug treatment and education, and certain other investment programs is less than requested, we understand the constraints facing the House. These programs remain a high priority. We urge the House to consider shifting funding from lower priority programs within this bill to further improve the funding levels for the President's investment initiatives in selected areas that received small increases.
Head Start 
The House Committee has provided $3.5 billion for the Head Start program, approximately $500 million below the President's request. Head Start is one of the President's highest priority investment programs. The funding level proposed in the President's budget would enhance the quality of the Head Start program, expand the scope of services, and increase the number of children served. We would strongly urge the House to provide additional funding for the Head Start program by shifting funds from other areas funded above the President's request.
Davis-Bacon 
The Administration understands that an amendment may be offered to strike the existing prohibition on the Department of Labor's implementation of Davis-Bacon helper regulations. The Administration would oppose such an amendment. We view the extension of the prohibition as a temporary — but necessary — step on the road to a permanent regulatory solution. The Administration will continue to make every effort to resolve this issue within the next year through the regulatory process, taking into consideration the concerns of employees, employers, and the government.
Funding for the National Institutes of Health (NIH) 
The Administration understands that an amendment may also be offered that would reduce the salaries and expenses accounts in the Departments of Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education by a total of $28 million, and the President's drug investment initiative by $60 million — the entire increase proposed for drug abuse initiatives. The resulting savings would be used to fund programs within the National Institutes of Health (NIH). The Administration would oppose such an amendment.
The Administration believes that cutting initiatives that provide treatment for hard core drug users — the President's top anti-drug priority — and reducing funding for salaries and expenses, including programs overseeing safety and health in the workplace, is not the way to provide additional resources for NIH. The Administration urges the Congress to find other ways to fund the contemplated increase, including reviewing programs recommended for elimination in the President's budget.
  