
    Mr. President:
As you have stated, we have just had a very constructive exchange of views with regard to mutual problems that our two countries face.
In coming to Portugal, I feel that I have had the opportunity to visit with a new friend and also to renew an old friendship, the friendship between our two countries.
A great challenge faces the President and his government at this time. I think that challenge can best be described by some symbolism. A very strong wind is blowing across these islands today, and the winds of political change have never blown stronger all over the world than they are today.
What we must all understand is that change by itself, however, is not something that is necessarily good. Change that sweeps away what was obsolete and what may have been wrong in the past is, of course, what we consider beneficial. But then new institutions must be created. And that is often the most difficult problem involved when these changes occur, not the sweeping away of what was bad in the past, but the building of something new to take its place.
President Spinola is one of those rare leaders who recognizes this problem and this challenge. And I have assured him that he will have not only the understanding of the Government of the United States but, to the extent that we are able, our support in meeting the challenge, because an independent, free, prosperous Portugal is vital not only to the Atlantic Alliance but vital also to the interest of the United States as well as to the interest of the people of Portugal.
And I can assure all of those who are in this country that the United States will continue to be a good friend and a trusted ally of Portugal and that we look forward to working with President Spinola toward the great goals he has set for his government.
And Mr. President, finally, I want to express on behalf of all the American party our deep appreciation of the warm hospitality that you and others from your government have extended to us as we have stopped here after a very long and arduous trip to the Mideast.
  