
    To the Senate of the United States:
I transmit herewith, for the advice and consent of the Senate to ratification, the Treaty on the Limitation of Strategic Offensive Arms, known as SALT II, including the Protocol thereto, both signed in Vienna, Austria, on June 18, 1979.
I transmit also, for the information of the Senate, the Report of the Secretary of State with respect to the Treaty, together with the following related documents:
1. a series of Agreed Statements and Common Understandings concerning the obligations of the Parties under particular articles of the Treaty;
2. a Memorandum of Understanding that will establish an agreed data base by categories of strategic offensive arms along with associated statements of current data;
3. a Joint Statement of Principles and Basic Guidelines on the Limitation of Strategic Arms concerning the next phase of negotiation on this subject; and
4. a Soviet statement on the Backfire bomber, together with a U.S. response.
For thirty years the United States has pursued a fundamentally bi-partisan foreign policy towards the Soviet Union, with the objectives of deterring aggression by maintaining strategic forces second to none, creating a pattern and tradition of negotiation to settle differences, building a strong framework of allies, and stabilizing the globe by halting the uncontrolled growth and spread of nuclear weapons.
SALT II strengthens each of these objectives. The seven years of negotiations, under three administrations representing both political parties, were carried out in closer consultation with Congress and under greater public scrutiny than any other arms limitation treaty. SALT II is truly a national accomplishment.
It is my best judgment and firm belief that these patiently negotiated agreements further the long-standing goals for our nation's security. They improve our strategic situation and allow for further improvements in the future. They reaffirm our leadership of the world in the cause of nuclear arms control. They allow us to negotiate for peace from strength in SALT III.
Like SALT I, the Test Ban Treaty, and the Non-Proliferation Treaty, SALT II is another important step forward toward our basic goal of a secure America at peace in a stable world.
I pledge the full cooperation of my Administration in helping to explain the principles and details of the agreements.
Therefore, I request with a sense of special urgency the advice and consent of the U.S. Senate to ratification of the SALT II Treaty.
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
June 22, 1979.
  