
    Atlanta, GA – Grassroots leaders who supported 2008 Georgia presidential primary winner Arkansas Gov. Mike Huckabee have taken leadership roles supporting Newt 2012. Public Service Commissioner Stan Wise, State Representative Harry Geisinger and Georgia Grassroots leader Maria Strollo Zack will each play a role in building Newt 2012 organization in Georgia.
"We will run a citizen campaign built on solutions that will bring real change to Washington," Gingrich said. "I am honored to have these volunteer leaders join our campaign. This is the beginning of a campaign that will take power out of Washington and return it to the citizens."
"I'm supporting Newt because he embodies the positive forward thinking spirit of Ronald Reagan," said State Representative Harry Geisinger, former Georgia Huckabee Co-Chairman and Reagan appointee. "He has the experience of balancing the federal budget, and will overturn Obamacare. Newt Gingrich is the only man that has the national experience we need."
Former Huckabee Co-Chairman Maria Strollo Zack expressed her support for Gingrich, "From the grassroots point of view, no other candidate has the conservative credentials, leadership experience and grasp of issues, and solutions, to beat Barack Obama."
Gov. Nathan Deal is serving as the chairman of Newt 2012 in Georgia. "I've had the pleasure of working with Newt Gingrich when he led the House as speaker. In this time of fiscal crisis, only one candidate in the field has a proven record of creating a balanced federal budget – Georgia's own Newt Gingrich. Newt's the visionary, solutions-oriented leader we need. Like so many other Georgians giving Newt their support, I consider him a friend, and I'm proud to stand with him in this campaign."
Newt Gingrich, who moved to Georgia when his father was serving in the Army at Fort Benning, graduated from Baker High School, went to college at Emory University, and taught at West Georgia College in Carrollton (now the University of West Georgia). Gingrich represented the U.S. 6th district of Georgia for twenty years, including four years as Speaker of the U.S. House.
  