
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
June 13
In the morning, the President attended a reception in the Rose Garden Arena at Portland State University in Portland, OR.
In the afternoon, the President traveled to Springfield, OR. Later, he traveled to Los Angeles, CA, arriving in the evening.
June 14
In the morning, the President and Hillary Clinton departed for Washington, DC, arriving in the early evening.
June 15
In the afternoon, the President had a telephone conversation with President Boris Yeltsin of Russia concerning the situation in Kosovo.
The President declared a major disaster in North Dakota and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by flooding and ground saturation beginning March 2 and continuing.
June 16
In the morning, the President attended a swearing-in ceremony for new members of the President's Foreign Intelligence Advisory Board in NSC Director Samuel Berger's office at the White House.
The President announced his intention to appoint Lynn Munroe Bragg as Chair and Marcia E. Miller as Vice Chair of the International Trade Commission.
The President announced his intention to appoint Marvin Key Blount, Jr., as a member of the Advisory Committee on the Arts of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts.
The President declared a major disaster in New York and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe thunderstorms and tornadoes on May 31.
June 17
The President announced his intention to nominate David Michael Satterfield to be Ambassador to Lebanon.
The President announced his intention to nominate James Vela Ledesma to be Ambassador to the Gabon and to Sao Tome and Principe.
The President announced his intention to nominate George Mu to be Ambassador to Cote d'Ivoire.
The President announced his intention to nominate Elizabeth McKune to be Ambassador to Qatar.
The President announced his intention to nominate Kent M. Wiedemann to be Ambassador to Cambodia.
The President announced his intention to nominate Joseph Gerard Sullivan to be Ambassador to Angola.
The President announced his intention to nominate Robert C. Perry to be Ambassador to the Central African Republic.
The President announced his intention to nominate Diane E. Watson to be Ambassador to Micronesia.
June 18
The President announced his intention to nominate Bill Richardson to be Secretary of Energy.
The President announced his intention to nominate Richard Holbrooke to be Ambassador to the United Nations.
The President announced his intention to nominate Melissa F. Wells to be Ambassador to Estonia.
The President announced his intention to nominate John Bruce Craig to be Ambassador to Oman.
The President announced his intention to nominate Robert C. Felder to be Ambassador to Benin.
The President declared a major disaster in Florida and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area threatened by extreme fire hazards beginning May 25 and continuing.
June 19
The President announced his intention to nominate Eric D. Newsom to be Assistant Secretary of State for Political-Military Affairs.
The President announced his intention to nominate Saul Ramirez, Jr., to be Deputy Secretary of the Department of Housing and Urban Development.
The President announced his intention to appoint William F. Paul and Kenneth M. Schoonover as members of the Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board.
The President announced his intention to appoint Ralph Hoard as U.S. Commissioner to the International Pacific Halibut Commission.
  