
    Mark R. Abbott, of Oregon, to be a Member of the National Science Board, National Science Foundation, for a term expiring May 10, 2012, vice Jane Lubchenco, term expired.
Geoffrey S. Bacino, of Illinois, to be a Director of the Federal Housing Finance Board for a term expiring February 27, 2013, vice Franz S. Leichter, term expired.
Camilla Persson Benbow, of Tennessee, to be a Member of the National Science Board, National Science Foundation, for a term expiring May 10, 2012, vice Warren M. Washington, term expired.
John T. Bruer, of Missouri, to be a Member of the National Science Board, National Science Foundation, for a term expiring May 10, 2012, vice John A. White, Jr., term expired.
Josiah Bunting, III, of Rhode Island, to be a Member of the National Council on the Humanities for a term expiring January 26, 2012, vice Wright L. Lassiter, Jr., term expired.
Michael V. Dunn, of Iowa, to be a Commissioner of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission for a term expiring June 19, 2011. (Reappointment)
Thomas C. Foley, of Connecticut, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Ireland.
Patricia D. Galloway, of Washington, to be a Member of the National Science Board, National Science Foundation, for a term expiring May 10, 2012, vice Diana S. Natalicio, term expired.
Jose-Marie Griffiths, of Pennsylvania, to be a Member of the National Science Board, National Science Foundation, for a term expiring May 10, 2012, vice Nina V. Fedoroff, term expired.
Mary Haybeck, of Maryland, to be a Member of the National Council on the Humanities for a term expiring January 26, 2012, vice James R. Stoner, Jr., term expired.
Karl Hess, of Illinois, to be a Member of the National Science Board, National Science Foundation, for the remainder of the term expiring May 10, 2008, vice Delores M. Etter, resigned.
Robert S. Martin, of Texas, to be a Member of the National Council on the Humanities for a term expiring January 26, 2012, vice Jeffrey D. Wallin, term expired.
Wilfred M. McClay, of Tennessee, to be a Member of the National Council on the Humanities for a term expiring January 26, 2012. (Reappointment)
Nancy Montanez-Johner, of Nebraska, to be Under Secretary of Agriculture for Food, Nutrition, and Consumer Services, vice Eric M. Bost.
Nancy Montanez-Johner, of Nebraska, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Commodity Credit Corporation, vice Eric M. Bost.
Manfredi Piccolomini, of New York, to be a Member of the National Council on the Humanities for a term expiring January 26, 2012, vice Andrew Ladis, term expired.
Thomas N. Taylor, of Kansas, to be a Member of the National Science Board, National Science Foundation, for a term expiring May 10, 2012, vice Daniel Simberloff, term expired.
Richard F. Thompson, of California, to be a Member of the National Science Board, National Science Foundation, for a term expiring May 10, 2012, vice Mark S. Wrighton, term expired.
Kenneth R. Weinstein, of the District of Columbia, to be a Member of the National Council on the Humanities for a term expiring January 26, 2012, vice David Hertz, term expired.
Jay Winik, of Maryland, to be a Member of the National Council on the Humanities for a term expiring January 26, 2012, vice Nathan O. Hatch, term expired.
  