
    Pool Reports by Kéthévane Gorjestani, France 24 



Sent:
Reports:




June 24, 2023 10:01

VP pool report #1
Hello, I'll be your supplemental pooler for the VP's trip to Charlotte where she will be making remarks to mark the one-year anniversary of the Dobbs v Jackson decision.
VP stepped out of the motorcade at 9:45am wearing black pants and a pink jacket. She was joined by Second Gentleman Doug Emhoff.
She waved at the pool but did not stop to take a question about the situation in Russia and whether she'd been briefed. She and the SG walked up the stairs, waved once more and entered AF2 at 9:48am.
AF2 was wheels up for Charlotte at 10:01am
From the VP's office:  At Joint Base Andrews, the Vice President and Second Gentleman were greeted by:
- Major Nicholas Konishi, Director of Flight Line Protocol,  - Mrs. Melany Herrera, Spouse, Major Nicholas Konishi - Secretary Xavier Becerra
Remarks are scheduled for 12:25pm and will be livestreamed here: http://whitehouse.gov/live
Below some excerpts from her remarks from the VP's office:
In Charlotte, North Carolina, Vice President Kamala Harris will deliver a national address observing one year following the Supreme Court's decision to overturn Roe v. Wade. Rallying alongside community leaders and advocates, the Vice President will lift up the stories of those impacted by this health care crisis, call out extremists for their dangerous and deeply unpopular efforts to take away a woman's right to make her own decisions about her own body, renew her call for national legislation that protects reproductive rights, and continue her fight to safeguard Americans' fundamental freedoms.
The following are excerpts as prepared for delivery:
Vice President Harris will pledge to continue the fight for reproductive freedom: "We are here today because one year ago, the United States Supreme Court took a Constitutional right from the people of America. From the women of America. A fundamental right. A basic freedom. … And know this: President Joe Biden and I will never back down from this fight."
Vice President Harris will again call on Congress to Restore the protections of Roe v. Wade: "Congress must pass legislation that restores the protections of Roe. And when they do, President Biden will sign it."
Vice President Harris will call out extremists across the country for their national abortion ban: "Extremist Republicans in Congress have proposed to ban abortion nationwide. Nationwide. But I have news for them: We're not having that. Americans believe in freedom. And we will not allow you to destroy our most basic rights and principles."
Vice President Harris will lift up the real harm that these extreme bans pose to women's health: "And so, over the past 365 days, the women of our nation have suffered under the consequences of these laws. In addition to the taking of rights, these laws have created chaos, confusion, and fear. There are women in our country who have been denied care when their lives and heath are at risk. … And the impacts extend beyond decisions about reproductive health. Because of these laws, access to other basic women's health care has been affected as clinics are forced to close. Clinics that also offer routine check-ups, referrals for mammograms, and other cancer screenings."


June 24, 2023
[APP Note: Report #2 does not exist or was not received by the APP.]


June 24, 2023 11:36

VP pool report #3
VP & SG stepped off AF2 at 11:28am
They stopped to chat with 4 greeters (will get you names shortly)
VP turned to wave to the pool before getting into her car but did not engage with our attempts to get a comment on the situation in Russia.
Motorcade is rolling to the Grady Cole Center at 11: 34am.


June 24, 2023 12:23

VP pool report #4
Motorcade arrived at the Grady Cole Center in Charlotte at 11:49am.
Pool did not see the VP enter the building.
We were brought into the venue were people are already filling out the bleachers and standing room space.
We arrived just minutes before the first pre-program speaker, Rep. Jeff Jackson, took the stage. He was followed by NC attorney general Josh Stein.
Below from the VP's office, program, airport greeters and some background:
Opening Program Participants:

State Representative Julie Von Haefen (D-NC-36)
State Senate Majority Leader Brad Hutto (D-SC-40)
State House of Delegates Caucus Chair Charniele Herring (D-VA-46)
Ethel Isaacs Williams, President of the Links, Inc

Pre- Program Participants:

Attorney General Josh Stein (D-North Carolina)
Congresswoman Alma Adams (D-NC-12)
Secretary Xavier Becerra, U.S. Department of Health and Human Services
Tatyana Ali, American Actress and Singer

Program Participants:

Governor Roy Cooper (D-NC)
Amy Bryant, Obstetrician/Gynecologist
The Vice President

Upon landing at Charlotte Douglas International in Charlotte, North Carolina, the Vice President and Second Gentleman were greeted by:

Governor Roy Cooper (D-NC)
Attorney General Josh Stein (D-NC)
Congresswoman Alma Adams (D-NC-12)
Congressman Jeff Jackson (D-NC-14)

On Background from a White House Official
Today, in Charlotte, North Carolina, Vice President Kamala Harris will deliver a national address observing one year following the Supreme Court's decision to overturn Roe v. Wade. Rallying alongside community leaders and advocates, the Vice President will lift up the stories of those impacted by this health care crisis, call out extremists for their dangerous and deeply unpopular efforts to take away a woman's right to make her own decisions about her own body, renew her call for national legislation that protects reproductive rights, and continue her fight to safeguard Americans' fundamental freedoms.
You can tune into her speech at www.whitehouse.gov/live around 12:15 PM ET. 
The Administration stands with the majority of Americans in supporting women's freedom to access reproductive health care. In May 2023, the North Carolina state legislature passed a dangerous abortion ban, overriding Gov. Cooper's veto. The ban goes into effect on July 1.  The Vice President's Leadership on Reproductive Rights

Vice President Kamala Harris is leading the Administration's efforts to protect access to reproductive health care.
Over the last year, the Vice President held nearly 50 convenings in 16 different states to bring together leaders on the frontlines fighting to protect reproductive rights.

She convened 250+ state legislators from 28 states, as well as health care providers, constitutional law experts, faith leaders, state attorneys general, disability rights leaders, higher education leaders, students, and advocates.
In addition, as part of the Administration's Task Force on Reproductive Health Care Access, she brought together Cabinet Secretaries across the government to implement the government's response to the Dobbs decision.



The following are excerpts of her remarks as prepared for delivery:
Vice President Harris will pledge to continue the fight for reproductive freedom: "We are here today because one year ago, the United States Supreme Court took a Constitutional right from the people of America. From the women of America. A fundamental right. A basic freedom. … And know this: President Joe Biden and I will never back down from this fight."
Vice President Harris will again call on Congress to Restore the protections of Roe v. Wade: "Congress must pass legislation that restores the protections of Roe. And when they do, President Biden will sign it."
Vice President Harris will call out extremists across the country for their national abortion ban: "Extremist Republicans in Congress have proposed to ban abortion nationwide. Nationwide. But I have news for them: We're not having that. Americans believe in freedom. And we will not allow you to destroy our most basic rights and principles."
Vice President Harris will lift up the real harm that these extreme bans pose to women's health: "And so, over the past 365 days, the women of our nation have suffered under the consequences of these laws. In addition to the taking of rights, these laws have created chaos, confusion, and fear. There are women in our country who have been denied care when their lives and heath are at risk. … And the impacts extend beyond decisions about reproductive health. Because of these laws, access to other basic women's health care has been affected as clinics are forced to close. Clinics that also offer routine check-ups, referrals for mammograms, and other cancer screenings." 


June 24, 2023 12:31

VP Pool report #5
On Russia the WH sends this:
President Biden and Vice President Harris were briefed by their national security team this morning about the latest developments in Russia. Participants included National Security Advisor Sullivan, Secretary Blinken, Secretary Austin, Chairman Milley, Director Haines, Director Burns, and Ambassador Thomas-Greenfield. The President and Vice President will continue to be briefed throughout the day.


June 24, 2023 12:59

VP Pool report #6
At 12:52pm, Dr. Amy Bryant, an OBGYN, took the stage and after short remarks introduced Kamala Harris.
The VP took the stage at 12:57pm to a standing ovation and chants of "4 more years!"


June 24, 2023 13:35

VP pool report #7
The VP wrapped her remarks at 1:23pm and went to greet some people in the crowd and take pictures.
She walked out at 1:33pm.
Here are some quotes: "And so over the past 365 days, women have suffered the consequences of these laws that by design and effect, have created chaos, confusion, and a lot of them have denied women around the country, care, even when their life and health, were at risk."
"This fight is not only about people of one particular state, these extremists planning to take their agenda to the national level."
"We know this fight will not truly be done until we secure this right for every American which may ultimately mean the United States Congress must put back in place what the Supreme Court took away."
Please check quotes against tape as the VP's remarks were sometimes hard to hear because of the reaction of the crowd."


June 24, 2023 14:01

VP Pool report #8
Motorcade is rolling to Charlotte Douglas International airport at 2:00pm
Pool did not see the VP get in the car.


June 24, 2023 14:30

VP Pool report #9
The VP stepped out of the car at 2:15pm.
She went over to pose for pictures with staff alongside the SG.
The VP did not answer pool's calls to speak to us.
VP & SG waved at the top of the stairs and walked in to AF2 at 2:18pm.
AF2 was wheels up at 2:29pm


June 24, 2023 15:43

VP Pool report #10
AF2 was wheels downat at JBA at 3:26pm
The VP did not respond to the pool's calls and walked straight to the chopper.
M2 was wheels up at 3:40pm.
That's it from me. Enjoy the rest of your weekend.



  