
    The following listing includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the White House Press Office and not included elsewhere in this issue.
May 31
The President met at the White House with Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs.
The President went to the CBS News Washington Bureau, where he was interviewed for the program "Face the Nation" by CBS News correspondents George Herman and Lesley Stahl, and Walter Mears of the Associated Press. The interview was taped for broadcast on the CBS television and radio networks on June 1.
The President left the White House for a visit to Camp David, Md.
June 1
Following his visit with Vernon E. Jordan, Jr., in Fort Wayne, Ind., the President returned to the White House.
June 2
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Frank B. Moore, Assistant to the President for Congressional Liaison.
The President transmitted to the Congress, the 1979 annual report on health activities under the Federal Mine Safety and Health Act of 1977 and the fourth annual report on the administration of the Genetic Diseases Program.
The White House announced that the President has designated Representative Lucien N. Nedzi of Michigan as his representative at the Poznan International Technical Fair to be held in Poland June 8-17.
June 3
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Mr. Moore;
—representatives of the food processing industry to discuss pricing policies;
—a group of his advisers for an overview session on the fiscal ),ear 1982 budget;
—Senators Dale Bumpers and David Pryor of Arkansas.
June 4
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski; the Democratic congressional leadership;
—Representative Bill Tauzin of Louisiana, who was elected to fill the seat in the House of Representatives formerly held by Governor Treen;
—Mr. Moore;
—Vice President Walter F. Mondale;
—Thomas J. Watson, U.S. Ambassador to the Soviet Union, upon his return to Moscow after consultations in this country;
—George W. Stone, newly elected president of the National Farmers Union, to discuss farm issues;
—James T. Mcintyre, Jr., Director of the Office of Management and Budget.
The President announced the appointment of Susan B. King, Chairman of the Consumer Product Safety Commission, as Vice Chairman of the Regulatory Council.
June 5
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Secretary of the Treasury G. William Miller, Under Secretary of Labor John N. Gentry, Alonzo L. McDonald, Jr., Assistant to the President, Charles L. Schultze, Chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers, Alfred E. Kahn, Advisor to the President on Inflation and Chairman of the Council on Wage and Price Stability, R. Robert Russell, Director of the Council on Wage and Price Stability, Stuart E. Eizenstat, Assistant to the President for Domestic Affairs and Policy, and John P. White, Deputy Director of the Office of Management and Budget;
—Mr. Moore;
—representatives of the machinery industry to discuss pricing policies;
—Senator Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts.
The President participated in two separate briefings held in the East Room. One was given for members of the board of directors of the National Association of Broadcasters, and the other for Members of the 95th Congress.
The White House announced that the President has declared a major disaster for the State of Nebraska as a result of severe storms and tornadoes, beginning on or about June 3, which caused extensive property damage.
June 6
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Vice President Mondale, Secretary of State Edmund S. Muskie, Secretary of Defense Harold Brown, Hedley W. Donovan, Senior Adviser to the President, Hamilton Jordan, Assistant to the President, and Dr. Brzezinski;
—Mr. Moore;
—Edward Stoll, 94, of Elwood, Nebr., who has been a volunteer cooperative weather observer for the National Weather Service for the past 74 years;
—Jacqueline Colvill, international president, and other representatives of the Juvenile Diabetes Foundation, accompanied by three juvenile diabetes poster children;
—Mrs, Carter, for lunch.
In a ceremony in the Oval Office, the President received diplomatic credentials from Ambassadors Sherif Fawaz Sharaf of Jordan, Jorge Pacheco Areco of Uruguay, Tamaiti Willie Star of Nauru, and Jacques Topande-Makombo of the Central African Republic.
The President left the White House for a weekend stay at Camp David.
The President transmitted to the Congress the 1979 annual report of the Department of Health, Education, and Welfare on occupational safety and health.
  