
    To the Senate of the United States:
Upon transmitting the Chemical Weapons Convention (CWC) to the Senate November 23, 1993, I indicated that the Administration was reviewing the impact of the Convention on Executive Order No. 11850, of April 8, 1975, which specifies current U.S. policy regarding the use of riot control agents (RCAs) in war, and would submit the results of that review separately to the Senate. The purpose of this letter is to inform the Senate of the outcome of that review.
Article I(5) of the CWC prohibits Parties from using RCAs as a "method of warfare." That phrase is not defined in the CWC. The United States interprets this provision to mean that:
—The CWC applies only to the use of RCAs in international or internal armed conflict. Other peacetime uses of RCAs, such as normal peacekeeping operations, law enforcement operations, humanitarian and disaster relief operations, counter-terrorist and hostage rescue operations, and noncombatant rescue operations conducted outside such conflicts are unaffected by the Convention.
—The CWC does not apply to all uses of RCAs in time of armed conflict. Use of RCAs solely against noncombatants for law enforcement, riot control, or other noncombat purposes would not be considered as a "method of warfare" and therefore would not be prohibited. Accordingly, the CWC does not prohibit the use of RCAs in riot control situations in areas under direct U.S. military control, including against rioting prisoners of war, and to protect convoys from civil disturbances, terrorists, and paramilitary organizations in rear areas outside the zone of immediate combat.
—The CWC does prohibit the use of RCAs solely against combatants. In addition, according to the current international understanding, the CWC's prohibition on the use of RCAs as a "method of warfare" also precludes the use of RCAs even for humanitarian purposes in situations where combatants and noncombatants are intermingled, such as the rescue of downed air crews, passengers, and escaping prisoners and situations where civilians are being used to mask or screen attacks. However, were the international understanding of this issue to change, the United States would not consider itself bound by this position.
Upon receiving the advice and consent of the Senate to ratification of the Chemical Weapons Convention, a new Executive order outlining U.S. policy on the use of RCAs under the Convention will be issued. I will also direct the Office of the Secretary of Defense to accelerate efforts to field non-chemical, non-lethal alternatives to RCAs for use in situations where combatants and noncombatants are intermingled.
WILLIAM J. CLINTON
The White House, June 23, 1994.
  