
    This month, No Kid Hungry campaign advocates across the country submitted letters to the editor highlighting the urgent need for Congress to pass President Biden's American Families Plan, which will provide critical nutrition assistance to families who need it most.
The American Families Plan builds on the American Rescue Plan's support for Summer Pandemic-EBT by investing more than $25 billion to make the successful program permanent and available to all 29 million children receiving free and reduced-price meals. Research shows that this program decreases food insecurity among children and leads to positive changes in nutritional outcomes.
The advocates stressed the dire need for the summer EBT program to be made permanent in states like Arkansas where "one in four kids who may face hunger." They wrote: "It's time for Congress to update and modernize summer meals programs by permanently implementing policies that have fed so many kids during the COVID crisis--additional summer grocery benefits and allowing meals to come to kids to help overcome transportation barriers--and making them part of future solutions."
Read the letters to the editor in Arkansas, Colorado, Florida, Georgia, Iowa, Kentucky, Maine, Nebraska, New York, and Texas below. State-by-state breakdowns on the American Families Plan's impact on child nutrition can be found here. 
ARKANSAS
Northwest Arkansas Democrat Gazette: Feed Hungry Children[By Capi Peck, 6/19/21]For the one in four kids who may face hunger today in Arkansas, summer is usually the hungriest time of year. This summer, however, may be a different story because new benefits and temporary nutrition waivers are helping to reach even more kids with the food they need. For example, they allow parents to pick up meals for the week or allow organizations to drop meals off at a child's home.
Because of these types of flexibilities, schools and community organizations in Arkansas served nearly 600,000 more meals to kids in need last year.
But these measures are temporary. It's time for Congress to update and modernize summer meals programs by permanently implementing policies that have fed so many kids during the covid crisis--additional summer grocery benefits and allowing meals to come to kids to help overcome transportation barriers--and making them part of future solutions.
As a lifelong Arkansan who has built her career on feeding my community, this matters to me.
I urge Sens. John Boozman and Tom Cotton to support proven solutions like a nationwide Summer EBT program and non-congregate meal options through the Child Nutrition Reauthorization process or the American Families Plan proposal. I sit at the intersection of food and public policy, so I know how critical this opportunity is.
Hungry kids in Arkansas and across the country can't wait.
COLORADO
Colorado Springs Gazette: Feed the children[By Gabriella Warner,6/10/21]For the 1 in 7 kids who might face hunger today in Colorado, summer is usually the hungriest time of year. This summer, however, might be a different story because new benefits and temporary waivers are helping to reach even more kids with the food they need. For example, they allow parents to pick up meals for the week or allow organizations to drop meals off at a child's home.
In fact, because of these types of flexibilities, summer meals programs in Colorado served over 2 million more meals to kids in need last year.
But these measures are temporary. It's time for Congress to update and modernize the summer meals programs by permanently implementing policies that have fed so many kids during the COVID crisis — additional summer grocery benefits and allowing meals to come to kids to help overcome transportation barriers — and making them part of future solutions.
Sens. Michael Bennet and John Hickenlooper have an opportunity to support proven solutions like a nationwide Summer EBT program and noncongregate meal options through the Child Nutrition Reauthorization process or the American Families Plan proposal. Hungry kids in Colorado and across the country can't wait.
Also published in the Boulder Daily Camera, the Aspen Daily News, and the Longmont Times-Call.
FLORIDA
Orlando Sentinel: Congress must extend meal programs for kids[By Sky Beard, 6/10/21]For the one in five kids who may face hunger today in Florida, summer is usually the hungriest time of year. This summer, however, may be a different story because new benefits and temporary waivers are helping to reach even more kids with the food they need. For example, the regulations allow parents to pick up meals for the week or allow organizations to drop meals off at a child's home.
In fact, because of these types of flexibilities, summer meals programs in Florida served nearly 6 million more meals to kids in need last year.
But these measures are temporary. It's time for Congress to update and modernize the summer meals programs by permanently implementing policies that have fed so many kids during the COVID-19 crisis, like additional summer grocery benefits and meal service options that overcome transportation barriers.
Sens. Rick Scott and Marco Rubio have an opportunity to support proven solutions like a nationwide Summer EBT program and non-congregate meal options through the Child Nutrition Reauthorization process or the American Families Plan proposal. Hungry kids in Florida and across the country can't wait.
Also published in the Tampa Bay Times.
GEORGIA
Albany Times: Hungry kids in Georgia need legislative action[By Asha Gomez and Virginia Willis, 6/16/21]For the 1 in 6 kids who may face hunger today in Georgia, summer is usually the hungriest time of year. This summer, however, may be a different story because new benefits and temporary nutrition waivers are helping to reach even more kids with the food they need. For example, they allow parents to pick up meals for the week or allow organizations to drop meals off at a child's home.
In fact, because of these types of flexibilities, schools and community organizations in Georgia served more than 3.6 million more meals to kids in need last year. This matters. Through our work with No Kid Hungry, we've learned just how important it is that kids have consistent access to healthy meals when schools are out of session or temporarily closed.
But these measures are temporary. It's time for Congress to update and modernize the summer meals programs by permanently implementing policies that have fed so many kids during the COVID crisis — additional summer grocery benefits and allowing meals to come to kids to help overcome transportation barriers — and making them part of future solutions.
Sens. Warnock and Ossoff have an opportunity to support proven solutions like a nationwide Summer EBT program and non-congregate meal options through the Child Nutrition Reauthorization process or the American Families Plan proposal. Hungry kids in Georgia and across the country can't wait.
IOWA
The Gazette: Hungry Kids in Iowa Need Help[By Kevin Scharpf, 6/17/21]For the one in eight kids who may face hunger today in Iowa, summer is usually the hungriest time of year. This summer, however, may be a different story because new benefits and temporary nutrition waivers are helping to reach even more kids with the food they need. For example, they allow parents to pick up meals for the week or allow organizations to drop meals off at a child's home.
In fact, because of these types of flexibilities, summer meals programs in Iowa served more than 2 million more meals to kids in need last year. This matters. Through my work with No Kid Hungry and Project Rooted, I've learned just how important it is that kids have consistent access to healthy meals when schools are out of session or temporarily closed.
But these measures are temporary. It's time for Congress to update and modernize the summer meals programs by permanently implementing policies that have fed so many kids during the COVID crisis — additional summer grocery benefits and allowing meals to come to kids to help overcome transportation barriers — and making them part of future solutions.
Sens. Joni Ernst and Chuck Grassley have an opportunity to support proven solutions like a nationwide Summer EBT program and non-congregate meal options through the Child Nutrition Reauthorization process or the American Families Plan proposal. Hungry kids in Iowa and across the country can't wait.
KENTUCKY
Commonwealth Sentinel: McConnell, Paul need to help feed Kentucky kids[By Kate McDonald, 6/12/21]Dear Editor: For the 1 in 5 kids who may face hunger today in Kentucky, summer is usually the hungriest time of year. This summer, however, may be a different story because new benefits and temporary nutrition waivers are helping to reach even more kids with the food they need. For example, they allow parents to pick up meals for the week or allow organizations to drop meals off at a child's home.
In fact, because of these types of flexibilities, summer meals programs in Kentucky served more than 4.7 million more meals to kids in need last year.
But these measures are temporary. It's time for Congress to update and modernize the summer meals programs by permanently implementing policies that have fed so many kids during the COVID crisis -- additional summer grocery benefits and allowing meals to come to kids to help overcome transportation barriers -- and making them part of future solutions.
Sens. McConnell and Paul have an opportunity to support proven solutions like a nationwide Summer EBT program and non-congregate meal options through the Child Nutrition Reauthorization process or the American Families Plan proposal. Hungry kids in Kentucky and across the country can't wait.
Also published in the Lexington Herald Leader, State Journal, Paducah Sun, News-Enterprise and Danville Advocate-Messenger. 
MAINE
Portland Press Herald: Letter to the editor: Collins, King should work to make child hunger solutions permanent[By Kristen Dunphey, 6/10/21]For the one in five kids who may face hunger today in Maine, summer is usually the hungriest time of year. This summer, however, may be a different story because new benefits and temporary waivers are helping to reach even more kids with the food they need. For example, they allow parents to pick up meals for the week or allow organizations to drop meals off at a child's home.
In fact, because of this type of flexibility, summer meals programs in Maine served over 500,000 more meals to kids in need last year.
But these measures are temporary. It's time for Congress to update and modernize the summer meals programs by permanently implementing policies that have fed so many kids during the COVID crisis – additional summer grocery benefits and allowing meals to come to kids to help overcome transportation barriers – and making them part of future solutions.
Sens. Susan Collins and Angus King have an opportunity to support proven solutions like a nationwide Summer EBT program and non-congregate meal options through the Child Nutrition Reauthorization process or the American Families Plan proposal. Hungry kids in Maine and across the country can't wait.
Also published in Bangor Daily News, Lewinston Sun Journal, and Kennebec Journal and Morning Sentinel. 
NEBRASKA
North Platte Telegraph: Letter to the editor: Make summer meals changes permanent[By Erica Olmstead, 6/11/21]For the one in seven kids who may face hunger today in Nebraska, summer is usually the hungriest time of year. This summer, however, may be a different story because new benefits and temporary nutrition waivers are helping to reach even more kids with the food they need. For example, they allow parents to pick up meals for the week or allow organizations to drop meals off at a child's home.
In fact, because of these types of flexibilities, summer meals programs in Nebraska served nearly 1.4 million more meals to kids in need last year.
But these measures are temporary. It's time for Congress to update and modernize the summer meals programs by permanently implementing policies that have fed so many kids during the COVID crisis — additional summer grocery benefits and allowing meals to come to kids to help overcome transportation barriers — and making them part of future solutions.
Sens. Deb Fischer and Ben Sasse have an opportunity to support proven solutions like a nationwide summer EBT program and non-congregate meal options through the Child Nutrition Reauthorization process or the American Families Plan proposal. Hungry kids in Nebraska and across the country can't wait.
NEW YORK
Adirondack Daily Enterprise: Summer doesn't have to be the hungriest time of year for kids[By Rachel Sabella, 6/22/21]To the editor: For the 1 in 5 kids who may face hunger today in New York, summer is usually the hungriest time of year. This summer, however, may be a different story because new benefits and temporary waivers are helping to reach even more kids with the food they need. For example, they allow parents to pick up meals for the week or allow school districts or organizations to drop meals off at a child's home.
But these measures are temporary. It's time for Congress to update and modernize the summer meals programs by permanently implementing policies that have fed so many kids during the COVID crisis, like additional summer grocery benefits and meal service options that overcome transportation barriers.
Sens. Schumer and Gillibrand and Rep. Stefanik have an opportunity to support proven solutions like a nationwide Summer EBT program and non-congregate meal options through the Child Nutrition Reauthorization process or the American Families Plan proposal. Kids facing hunger in New York and across the country can't wait.
TEXAS
Houston Chronicle: Hungry kids can't wait[By Stacie Sanchez, 6/13/21]Regarding "Katy ISD set to offer free meals for area students this summer," (May 26): For the one in four kids who may face hunger today in Texas, summer is usually the hungriest time of year. This summer, however, may be a different story because new benefits and temporary waivers are helping to reach even more kids with the food they need. For example, they allow parents to pick up meals for the week or allow organizations to drop meals off at a child's home. In fact, because of these types of flexibilities, summer meals programs in Texas served over 13 million more meals to kids in need last year. But these measures are temporary. It's time for Congress to update and modernize the summer meals programs by permanently implementing policies that have fed so many kids during the COVID crisis, like additional summer grocery benefits and meal service options that overcome transportation barriers. Sens. Ted Cruz and John Cornyn have an opportunity to support proven solutions like a nationwide Summer EBT program and non-congregate meal options through the Child Nutrition Reauthorization process or the American Families Plan proposal. Hungry kids in Texas and across the country can't wait.
Also published in the Austin American-Statesman.
Fort Worth Star Telegram: We Must Feed Texas' Kids First[By Tiffany Derry, 6/13/21]For the 1 in 4 kids who may face hunger in Texas, summer is usually the hungriest time of year. But this summer might be different. New benefits and meal waivers are reaching more kids with the food they need. They allow parents to pick up meals or allow organizations to drop off meals at homes.
Summer meals programs in Texas served more than 13 million more meals to kids in 2020 than in 2019. Through my work with No Kid Hungry, I know just how important that is. But these measures are temporary. Congress should permanently implement policies that have fed kids during the COVID-19 crisis. Hungry kids can't wait.
  