
    On Wednesday, June 09, 2010, the President signed into law:
H.R. 2711, the “Special Agent Samuel Hicks Families of Fallen Heroes Act,” which allows for payment for the transportation and moving expenses for immediate family of certain Federal employees who die in the performance of their official duties;
H.R. 3250, which designates the facility of the United States Postal Service located in Riverhead, New York, as the “Private First Class Garfield M. Langhorn Post Office Building;”
H.R. 3634, which designates the facility of the United States Postal Service located in Swifton, Arkansas, as the “George Kell Post Office;”
H.R. 3892, which designates the facility of the United States Postal Service located in Roper, North Carolina, as the “E.V. Wilkins Post Office;”
H.R. 4017, which designates the facility of the United States Postal Service located in Shrewbury, Massachusetts, as the “Ann Marie Blute Post Office;”
H.R. 4095, which designates the facility of the United States Postal Service located in Overland Park, Kansas, as the “Congresswoman Jan Meyers Post Office Building;”
H.R. 4139, which designates the facility of the United States Postal Service located in Hickory, Mississippi, as the “Sergeant Matthew L. Ingram Post Office;”
H.R. 4214, which designates the facility of the United States Postal Service located in Palm Desert, California, as the “Roy Wilson Post Office;”
H.R. 4238, which designates the facility of the United States Postal Service located in Greeley, Colorado, as the “W.D. Farr Post Office Building;”
H.R. 4425, which designates the facility of the United States Postal Service in North Troy, New York, as the “Martin G. “Marty” Mahar Post Office;”
H.R. 4547, which designates the facility of the United States Postal Service located in Cheyney, Pennsylvania, as the “Captain Luther H. Smith, U.S. Army Air Forces Post Office;”
H.R. 4628, which designates the facility of the United States Postal Service located in Westwood, New Jersey, as the “Sergeant Christopher R. Hrbek Post Office Building;” and
H.R. 5330, which extends through June 22, 2020, provision for limited civil antitrust liability for participants in the Justice Department’s corporate leniency program, under which a company is protected from criminal prosecution for antitrust violations if it is first to come forward to advise the Department’s Antitrust Division of an antitrust offense and cooperates with the Division’s investigation.
  