
    Mr. General Secretary Brezhnev, President Podgorny, Premier Kosygin, all distinguished guests:
To you, Mr. General Secretary, on behalf of all of your American guests, I express our grateful appreciation for not only the hospitality you have extended to us tonight but for the very generous words of friendship you have just spoken.
And I am very gratified that I shall have the opportunity to see more of your great country on this visit, and I trust that on )-our next visit to the United States next year, you will be able to see more of our country as well.
All of us gathered here tonight are fortunate to be present at a moment of great historical significance. Two years ago in this place, we began a process which has resulted in a profound change in the relations between the two strongest nations in the world.
We have moved in those 2 years from confrontation to coexistence to cooperation. And while, as the General Secretary has correctly pointed out, we have many problems yet to negotiate on, the success of our negotiations to date gives a good indication of the progress we can and will make in this third summit meeting.
To see the extent of the progress that has been made, we can point to the fact that over the past 2 years, more agreements have been negotiated and signed between our two countries in those 2 years than in the entire history of the relations of our two countries up to that period.
And it is significant to note the character of those agreements. In part, they have dealt with the concern that both of our nations have with regard to the need to avoid war, and motivated by that desire--the desire to avoid war--we have begun the process of limiting nuclear arms.
And in 1973, we negotiated and signed the historic agreement with regard to the prevention of nuclear war. But that is only one side of the equation as far as our agreements are concerned. We both seek peace, but we seek peace that is more than simply the absence of war. We seek peace because of the positive progress it can bring to both of our peoples.
And that is why we have negotiated a number of agreements in the areas of peaceful progress. They are too numerous to mention, but they cover all fields of human endeavor: health, science, the environment, the peaceful exploration of space, agriculture. Many others could be added, but together what they mean is that both our great peoples now have a stake in peace from a positive standpoint.
We must still do everything that we can to negotiate those agreements that will lessen the burden of armaments and reduce the danger of war. But we must go further and add to this and to give to every individual in each of our countries a positive stake in peace, because it is in this way that two peoples with different systems of government can establish relationships that will not be broken in the future.
And it is also, I think, very worthwhile to note how these agreements were negotiated. They were possible because of a personal relationship that was established between the General Secretary and the President of the United States. And that personal relationship extends to the top officials in both of our governments.
It has been said that any agreement is only as good as the will of the parties to keep it. Because of our personal relationship, there is no question about our will to keep these agreements and to make more where they are in our mutual interests.
And also, we both can say that this new relationship between our two nations is overwhelmingly supported by the people of the Soviet Union and overwhelmingly supported by the people of the United States.
And now, looking to the future, we wonder how history will judge the leaders of these two nations and their people during this period. Too often in the past, history has judged those nations to be great which were engaged in aggressive war and in conquest. But what we are doing is establishing a record where the two strongest nations in the world and their leaders will seek greatness, not by what they might accomplish in war, but greatness by what they accomplish in the works of peace.
And without the cooperation of these two strongest nations in the world, the cooperation of both their leaders and their people, there can be no lasting peace in the world. And consequently, we believe that these meetings that we have had and those that we will have in the future will lead to our meeting the challenge of history for a strong nation to be remembered as a peacemaking nation rather than as a war-making nation.
Let this be our legacy for the generations ahead. And that is why I say that we should raise our glasses to our host, the General Secretary and his colleagues, to peace between the Soviet Union and the United States of America, and to peace for all peoples in the world, the peace to which the relations between our nations can make such an enormous contribution.
  