
    WASHINGTON, DC – Today, President Barack Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key Administration posts:
•      David "Mas" Masumoto – Member, National Council on the Arts
•      Polly Trottenberg –Under Secretary for Policy, Department of Transportation
President Obama said, "Our nation will be greatly served by the talent and expertise these individuals bring to their new roles. I am grateful they have agreed to serve in this Administration, and I look forward to working with them in the months and years ahead."
President Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key Administration posts:
David "Mas" Masumoto, Nominee for Member, National Council on the Arts
David "Mas" Masumoto is an organic peach and grape farmer, author, and columnist for The Fresno Bee. Mr. Masumoto's books include Epitaph for a Peach, Heirlooms, Letters to the Valley, Four Seasons in Five Senses, Harvest Son, and Wisdom of the Last Farmer. His writing awards include the Commonwealth Club Silver medal, the Julia Child Cookbook award, and the James Clavell Literacy Award. Mr. Masumoto was appointed to the board of the California Council for the Humanities, now known as Cal Humanities, in 1994, serving as Co-Chair from 1998 to 2001. In addition, Mr. Masumoto serves on the James Irvine Foundation Board of Directors, and the Board of the Public Policy Institute of California. He earned a B.A. in sociology from the University of California, Berkeley and an M.S. in community development from the University of California, Davis.
Polly Trottenberg, Nominee for Under Secretary for Policy, Department of TransportationPolly Trottenberg is Assistant Secretary for Transportation Policy at the Department of Transportation, having been appointed by President Obama in July 2009. Before joining the Administration, Ms. Trottenberg was Executive Director of Building America's Future. Previously, she worked in the U.S. Senate in a number of positions, including as Deputy Chief of Staff and Legislative Director for Senator Barbara Boxer from 2006 to 2008, Legislative Director for Senator Charles Schumer from 1999 to 2005, and Legislative Assistant for Transportation, Public Works and Environment for the late Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan from 1996 to 1998. Ms. Trottenberg also worked at the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey from 1994 to 1996. She received a B.A. in History from Barnard College and an M.P.P. from the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University.
  