
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Romney Press Shop (857) 288-6390
Boston, MA – Today, Governor Mitt Romney named former Governor Tim Babcock as Honorary Chair for the Montana Romney for President Campaign. Governor Babcock will be joined by Montana Secretary of State Brad Johnson, who will serve as the State Romney for President Chair. These two Republican leaders will help build the campaign's Montana organization and strengthen the grassroots support for Governor Romney in the state.
With today's announcement, Governor Romney said, "Governor Babcock and Secretary of State Johnson are dedicated champions of Republican principles in Montana. They understand the importance of having someone from outside the Washington Beltway lead our nation. With their leadership, we will make sure our nation continues to have the strongest military, the strongest economy, and the strongest families in the world."
Honorary State Chairman Governor Tim Babcock added, "As a former Governor, I understand the unique challenges that come with leading a state. Governor Romney has displayed the kind of leadership our country needs as we face a new generation of challenges. He inherited a budget gap of nearly $3 billion when he took office and turned that into a $1 billion surplus without raising taxes or borrowing money. He understands how to solve tough problems and will provide the leadership we need in Washington."
Joining Governor Babcock, Secretary of State Brad Johnson said, "Governor Romney has the right values and priorities for voters not only in Montana, but across the country. He has a lifetime of real world experience and he understands our families want lower taxes, a strong national defense, and the best opportunities for our children. With Governor Romney's proven leadership, our nation will remain the strongest in the world."
Background On The Montana Romney For President Leadership Team:
Former Governor Tim Babcock – Honorary Chairman: Governor Babcock served the people of Montana as Governor from 1962 to 1969. During his time in office, Babcock was a proud supporter of family values and fiscal responsibility. His history of civil service extends beyond his time as Governor. Prior to his terms in the State House, he served Montana in the state legislature. Babcock has remained active in politics by serving as Montana's representative to the Republican National Committee.
Secretary of State Brad Johnson – Chairman: Secretary of State Johnson has served Montana as Secretary of State since January 2005. He has been involved in politics ever since his youth, when he was active in the Teenage Republicans and the College Republicans. In Montana, Johnson has served as district representative for Montana's former Congressman Ron Marlenee and was re-appointed to a position on the Montana Republican Party's executive board in 2003. Before running for office, he owned an auto parts store in Bozeman and previously worked for RightNow Technologies. In addition, Johnson has strong ties to the agricultural community. He has a master's degree in agriculture and has worked with the American Quarter Horse Association and the American Simmental Association.
  