
    The President today announced the appointments of the 1982-83 White House fellows. This is the 18th class of fellows since the program began in 1964.
The 14 fellows were chosen from among 1,200 applicants and screened by 11 regional panels. The President's Commission on White House Fellowships, chaired by Vice Adm. James B. Stockdale (USN-Ret.), interviewed the 32 national finalists before recommending the following persons to the President. Their year of government service will begin on September 1, 1982.
The 1982-83 White House fellows are:
Catherine Lynn Olson Anderson, 34, of Hopkins, Minn., assistant Hennepin County attorney, criminal trial division, Minneapolis, Minn.;
Michael L. Campbell, 35, of Clarksburg, Calif., owner, Campbell Farms, Clarksburg, Calif.;
Paula H.J. Cholmondeley, 35, of Short Hills, N.J., vice president of strategic planning and programs, Westinghouse Elevator Co., Short Hills, N.J.;
Clayton M. Christensen, 30, of Belmont, Mass., project manager, the Boston Consulting Group, Inc., Boston, Mass.;
Jonathan S. Gration, 30, of Wheaton, Ill., captain, United States Air Force, Technical Assistance Field Team, Kenya;
Paul T. Hasse, 27, of Silver Spring, Md., chairman of HALT—An Organization of Americans for Legal Reform, Inc., Washington, D.C.;
Frank G. Klotz, 31, of Colorado Springs, Colo., captain, United States Air Force, assistant professor of political science, United States Air Force Academy, Colorado Springs;
Douglas W. Kmiec, 30, of Notre Dame, Ind., associate professor of law, University of Notre Dame, Ind.;
Kathy Stroh Mendoza, 38, of New York City, president of Vis-A-Vis Information Design, New York City;
Daniel T. Oliver, 37, of Orange Park, Fla., commander, United States Navy, Commanding Officer of Patrol Squadron SIXTEEN, homeported at the Naval Air Station, Jacksonville, Fla.;
Sharon Ivey Richie, 32, of Upper Marlboro, Md., major, United States Army, Office of the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Health Affairs, the Pentagon, Washington, D.C.;
William L. Roper, 33, of Birmingham, Ala., health officer, Jefferson County, Birmingham, Ala.;
Adis M. Vila, 28, of Miami, Fla., attorney, Paul & Thomson, Miami, Fla.;
Diane Welch Vines, 36, of Brookline, Mass., assistant professor of psychiatric nursing, Boston University, and partner/psychotherapist, Beacon Associates, Brookline, Mass.
Established to provide outstanding Americans with firsthand experience in the process of governing the Nation, the White House Fellowships program is open to U.S. citizens in the early stages of their careers from all occupations and professions. Federal Government employees are not eligible, with the exception of career Armed Forces personnel.
In addition to their job assignments as special assistants to the Vice President, Cabinet officers, and to members of the President's principal staff, the fellows participate in an extensive education program that includes off-the-record seminar meetings with ranking government officials, scholars, journalists, and leaders from Other segments of private life.
Leadership, intellectual and professional ability, and commitment to community and Nation are the broad criteria employed in the selection of fellows.
Applications and further information are available from the President's Commission on White House Fellowships, 712 Jackson Place NW., Washington, D.C. 20503; (202) 395-4522.
  