
    The President. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sorry that other events dictated that we started a little late today, but I want to welcome all of you to the White House and all the people who have come from California and Connecticut: Senator Lieberman, Congresswoman Kennelly, Congresswoman DeLauro, Congressman Gejdenson; and from California, the president of—the chancellor of UCLA, Chancellor Young; and the officers of UConn, the chairman of the board, Lew Rome, and the president, Harry Hartley. I am delighted to welcome all of you back to the White House who have been here before and those who are coming for the first time, to welcome you here.
You know, we ought to get something obvious out of the way. These championships were hard on the Vice President and me. I mean, we just have to hope our ticket does a little better in '96. [Laughter]
But some of you know, I am a near-fanatic basketball fan, and I think that any serious student of basketball would have to say that this year in the championship, not only the teams with the best records but the best teams in the United States won the championships and deserve—[inaudible].
I remember vividly when Tyus Edney came out of the final game with his wrist injury, and all the people were saying, "Well, this may be the undoing of UCLA." And I was sitting there looking at the team and I said, "I don't think so." [Laughter] I remember people—the discussions that I've heard, year-in and year-out, about how you have to have 10 players to win the final. And in the final, when you see the really great players with their adrenalin pumping, I don't think so.
And so, I want to congratulate again Coach Harrick and the Bruins on reviving UCLA's magnificent tradition, winning their 11th national title, and I think that they've got a great future. I also want to congratulate Ed O'Bannon on being selected the most outstanding player of the tournament and the NCAA player of the year for his fantastic season.
I do want to say one thing. I had the privilege of coming to UCLA and giving the commencement address and being with Chancellor Young a couple of years ago. I have to chide you on one thing: I've been very proud of the very outspoken and courageous stance you've taken in favor of continuing affirmative action programs, so we can—[applause]—but if you had really believed in spreading opportunity around, you would not have permitted both the O'Bannon brothers to be on your team. [Laughter] Nonetheless, I forgive you for that minor lapse. [Laughter]
I also want to say a special word of appreciation to Coach Geno Auriemma and the Connecticut Huskies for establishing the most outstanding winning record in the history of college basketball, men or women's basketball. I want to congratulate Rebecca Lobo, who couldn't be here today. We're all sorry about that. But she's representing the U.S. national team in games in Europe. She once wrote to the president of the Celtics, saying that she'd be the first woman to play for their team. All I can say is that may or may not happen. But the Connecticut Huskies did more to make the rest of America appreciate women's basketball than any team has ever done. And they made millions of fans that will help other university teams all across this country for years and years and years in the future, and we thank you for that.
So let me say I'm glad you're here. I also want to say to the coach, this team came to the White House once before, and somebody messed it up, and they didn't get in, even the back door. Today they came in the front door with full honors, and I'd like to invite their coach to come up for a few words. Thank you, and congratulations.
[At this point, University of Connecticut women's coach Geno Auriemma made brief remarks, and team captain Pam Webber presented gifts to the President. University of California, Los Angeles men's coach Jim Harrick then made brief remarks, and team captain Ed O'Bannon presented gifts to the President.]
The President. Is that your dad? [Laughter] Stand up, Daddy. [Laughter]
Now, here's what we're going to do. I'm going to take a picture with each team, and then we're going to break up, take the ropes down, we'll all visit a little, okay?
But you know, every year this is so humbling for me. Most days I wake up and I'm 6 foot 2 1/2 inches, and I'm halfway tall. This day I'm just another person looking up. [Laughter]
Thank you all for coming. It was a great day. Thanks.
  