
    AS our people have gradually pushed across our frontiers and our changing way of life has threatened much of America's natural beauty, we have learned at last that our land must be treated as a precious asset.
The Federal Government today bears a very special responsibility for this resource. One third of all the land in the country-more than 760 million acres--is now owned by our Government. Of this amount, some 56 million acres have been acquired by the Government by purchase or donation just to carry on its daily activities.
Three and one-half years ago, recognizing that we could make more effective use of this irreplaceable heritage and that we have both the opportunity and the need to create more recreational areas, I ordered a review of all Federal holdings. Every agency was asked to determine whether its lands were being well used and to report its findings to the Administrator of General Services.
At the same time, I established a Property Review Board to review the GSA reports and to recommend to me how those properties could be put to better use. It was my intention that the Board would serve as a catalyst in this process and would devote particular attention to identifying lands for recreational uses.
The results of this initiative have been gratifying. Growing directly out of the studies and recommendations was the Legacy of Parks program, under which surplus Federal real property has been made available to State and local governments for parks and recreation, especially near urban areas. In the 28 months since the program was started, 325 properties-including 36 announced today--have been turned over for park and recreational purposes. They cover over 54,000 acres and have an estimated market value of about $150 million.
In addition to furthering our environmental and recreational objectives and our commitment to the sound management of our Federal assets, the Legacy of Parks program is a striking example of the New Federalism in action. Resources of the Federal Government are made available to States and localities for a broad purpose--providing recreational opportunities--and their local communities through their representatives decide how they can best develop those resources to meet their own recreational needs.
While our progress under the Property Review Board has taught us that we can make better use of our Federal lands, it has also made it clear that in order to make optimum rise of these resources, we must develop a more coherent set of policies for the handling of all Federal properties. In the absence of general guidelines, a Government agency still determines the use and disposition of its holdings solely on the basis of its own mission and without full regard for our broader policies.
Today, in order to foster the development of more effective national policies that apply to all agencies and departments, I am creating a Federal Property Council within the Executive Office of the President.
It is specifically charged with reviewing all Federal real property policies to test their consistency with the overall objectives of the Government and with recommending to me such reforms, modifications, or initiatives as seem necessary.
The Administrator of General Services will continue to conduct surveys of Federal properties, identifying those which he believes can be put to better use and recommending appropriate action. The Federal Property Council will study his reports and will assist in the resolution of any conflicting claims for the use of properties.
The new Council will also assume all other duties of the Property Review Board, including the development of the Legacy of Parks program. The Board is being abolished.
I have asked Mrs. Anne Armstrong, Counsellor to the President and Chairman of the Property Review Board, to serve as Chairman of the Federal Property Council.
Other members of the Council will include Roy Ash, Director of the Office of Management and Budget; Bryce Harlow, Counsellor to the President; Leonard Garment, [Acting] Counsel to the President; Herbert Stein, Chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers; William Timmons, Assistant to the President for Legislative Affairs; and Russell Train, Chairman of the Council on Environmental Quality.
  