
    THE VICE PRESIDENT. Mr. President and Rosalynn, today you begin a crucial trip at a crucial time. In Venice you will meet with the leaders of the Western world for the first time since the Soviet Union invaded Afghanistan.
That invasion is a challenge to the whole world: a challenge to peace, to the principles of international law, and to national sovereignty. To meet this challenge, the leading democratic nations of the world must speak with a common voice.
You also meet at a time when the problems of inflation and recession threaten the economies of every nation. These too require international cooperation and require all of us to speak with a common voice and to act with a common purpose.
Mr. President, you will also visit three major nations of southern Europe, each one of which stands on the threshold of a new beginning. Two of Europe's oldest, proudest and most illustrious countries, Spain and Portugal, are also two of the world's youngest democracies; and new leadership begins the new decade for the strong, united, and independent people of Yugoslavia. At this important point of their history you bring to each of these three nations the message of our respect, our good will, and friendship.
And when you visit Italy, your first stop, you'll be among people for whom America has a special affection. From the seeds that Italy planted, so much culture has blossomed in the Western world. From the shores of that country, so many people set off across the ocean to help build our own Nation. To Italy you return the warmth and esteem and love of the American people.
I know that I speak for all Americans, Mr. President, when I say that we wish-such historic talks before you, you leave with our wish for a safe and successful journey.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much, Fritz.
I know that I do leave this Nation with a great deal of confidence that while I'm gone that you will administer the affairs of the Government well and that we will be in constant communication at all times; secondly, that the American people have their hearts and their minds attuned to the challenges of this extremely difficult visit: meeting with, in a short time, key leaders of the Western world and Japan, in more than 12 different consultations with them of great importance.
This is a trip that's fairly brief, but it's long in importance and long in difficulty and challenge. Our mission has many facets. We will examine such issues as energy dependence, the economics of emerging nations and of our own countries, a lasting peace for the Middle East. We'll discuss the clear-cut challenge of the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan, the question of terrorism and how to deal with Iran, the control of nuclear arms. And we will also discuss, in individual meetings with the leaders of all of those nations, the differences and common purposes and commitments of our nations. But throughout all these interrelated issues and delicate shades of difference, we will be guided by this knowledge: the power of free, democratic nations, who welcome diversity and who do not erect walls to imprison our own people; who exist to nurture human rights and human beings, not to enslave them. The power of democracy and freedom will shape the future of the world.
In Rome I'll meet with Italian leaders, President Pertini and Prime Minister Cossiga, to discuss diplomatic, energy, and security matters. And then Pope John Paul II and I will continue our work on human rights, on human needs, on refugees, and on arms control, which we began during his visit to Washington last October. And then I'll go to 2 days of meetings in Venice at the summit conference, the sixth such meeting among the major non-Communist and industrial nations.
The industrial democracies are meeting now very, severe tests successfully. Let there be no misunderstanding about this anywhere in the world. We are not motivated by hostility against anyone, nor by any desire for reckless confrontation, nor for any return to the cold war. But we must sustain world opposition to Soviet aggression and not allow the Soviets to derive any permanent benefits from their invasion of the neutral nation of Afghanistan.
In working toward that response and for many other difficult solutions, America will be clear in voicing our own commitments, our needs, and we will also be eager to understand and to listen to the views of other countries. We are not the Warsaw Pact, held together by one nation's tanks. We are bound by shared ideals, shared goals, and shared respect for one another. Our alliance is based on understanding and not demands; on listening to each other's voices, not dictating to each other. That's what makes these summit meetings so vital. That's also what makes these summit meetings so difficult at times.
We will work together on tough issues each nation faces at home: inflation, unemployment, rising oil prices, energy conservation, production of energy in our own countries—a host of problems that are interrelated and very intricate. It's important for Americans to remember that international understanding and cooperation on these issues is every bit as important to our security, to our jobs, to our quality of life, as anything that we can do by ourselves here at home.
Immediately following the Venice summit I'll travel to Yugoslavia, to Spain, and then to Portugal. I will assure the leaders and the people of Yugoslavia of America's unwavering support for the independence, the unity, and the territorial integrity of that great country, as well as our respect for Yugoslavia's constructive, nonaligned position.
America has watched with wonder and with deep appreciation and admiration, in both Spain and Portugal, as they've made a remarkable transition from autocracy to democracy in the last several years. I will express personally to them, to the leaders and to the people, the great pleasure that Americans feel at the success of these historic achievements.
I'll join with all these nations, with their leaders and, in some cases, with their people, in fulfilling the difficult and demanding agenda of peace, of working towards a solid economic foundation for the entire world, and adhering to the high ideals and the deep commitments of free people.
Finally, I might say that the difficult task of marshaling the democratic alliance to meet the challenges and dangers and opportunities of a new decade will call for courage, patience, knowledge, and persistence among the people of all our nations. There is no more important work for an American President, and I'm grateful for your support as we seek peace, security, and better life for ourselves and for all the world.
Thank you very much.
  