
    At the invitation of the Presidency of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, President of the United States Jimmy Carter and Mrs. Carter paid an official visit to Yugoslavia June 24-25, 1980. During the visit, President Carter and President of the Presidency of the SFRY Cvijetin Mijatovic held cordial and constructive talks in an atmosphere of mutual respect, understanding, candor and friendship.
Participating in the talks were, on the
American side:
Jimmy Carter, President of the United States
Lawrence S. Eagleburger, Ambassador to Yugoslavia
Zbigniew Brzezinski, Advisor to the President for National Security Affairs
Jody Powell, Press Secretary to the President
David Newsom, Under Secretary of State for Political Affairs
Richard Cooper, Under Secretary of State for Economic Affairs
Steve Larrabee, National Security Council Staff
On the Yugoslav side:
Cvijetin Mijatovic, President of the Presidency of the SFRY
Lazar Kolisevski, Member of the Presidency of the SFRY
Veselin Djuranovic, President of the Federal Executive Council
Josip Vrhovec, Federal Secretary for Foreign Affairs
Sinan Hasani, Vice President of the Federal Assembly
Budimir Loncar, Ambassador to the United States
Milivoje Maksic, Counselor to the President of the Presidency for International Affairs
Mirko Zaric, Office Director for North American Affairs, Federal Secretariat for Foreign Affairs
President Carter also met with other prominent Yugoslav officials.
President Carter expressed the profound sorrow of the American people at the death of President Tito, who was greatly admired and respected in the United States. President and Mrs. Carter on this occasion again expressed regret at the loss of a great statesman who, as one of the most prominent leaders of the Non-Aligned Movement, devoted his entire life's work to building a strong and independent Yugoslavia and to securing peace and progress in the world.
President Carter and the Presidency of Yugoslavia noted with satisfaction the very successful development of relations and cooperation between Yugoslavia and the United States. They agreed that the meeting held in Washington in March 1978 between President Carter and Tito and the document signed on that occasion represents a durable and stable basis for further strengthening of the cooperation between the two countries. Based firmly on the positions and principles set forth in that document, as well as the documents signed by the Presidents of the two countries in 1971 and 1975, the United States and Yugoslavia have made great progress in recent years in broadening and deepening their relations in all areas.
Both sides affirmed that in recent years significant expansion of the dialogue and consultations between the two countries has occurred, in which a special role was played by the regular exchange of letters between Presidents Tito and Carter. There have also been frequent exchanges of visits at all levels, including productive contacts between members of the U.S. Congress and of the Federal Assembly of the SFRY as well as other mutually useful visits and exchanges. The United States and Yugoslavia affirmed their readiness to continue this useful practice, which has proven to be in the interests of both countries and of greater international understanding generally.
The two sides noted the importance of historical and cultural ties between the two peoples and the special role in strengthening the bonds of friendship and understanding played by Americans of Yugoslav descent. They also confirmed their mutual interest in facilitating the free flow of information and people between the two countries, endorsed governmental and non-governmental exchanges in the fields of science and technology, culture, and information, and agreed that even more can be done in these areas.
Turning to the increasingly important economic relations between the United States and Yugoslavia, President Carter and the Presidency of the SFRY noted with satisfaction the growth in trade and economic cooperation between Yugoslav and American enterprises and financial institutions. They stressed their mutual interest in further expansion of economic relations and agreed to intensify efforts to increase trade, while recognizing that the growth of Yugoslavia's exports will be an important factor in the satisfactory development of two-way trade. They also agreed that more should be done to promote other forms of economic cooperation including joint ventures and long-term cooperation. The American side expressed understanding for and a readiness to support the efforts of Yugoslavia toward stabilization and further development of its economy. Appreciation was expressed for the contribution already being made to strengthening U.S.-Yugoslav economic relations by the U.S.-Yugoslav Economic Council, the Yugoslav Chamber for Promotion of Economic Cooperation with the U.S., and the U.S.-Yugoslav economic working groups.
The two sides favorably noted the measures taken to prevent acts of violence against Yugoslavia and its diplomatic, consular and other representatives in the United States and in prosecuting the perpetrators. President Carter reiterated the commitment of the United States Government not to tolerate such terrorist activities, which are against the interests of the United States and are also against the good relations between the two countries.
President Carter and the President of the SFRY Presidency expressed great concern over the serious deterioration in the international situation which represents a threat to world peace. With the objective of halting the current dangerous trend in international relations, and of renewing the disrupted process of detente, they affirmed the need for strict respect for the spirit and principles of the U.N. Charter, especially those which refer to the inadmissibility of the application of force, of intervention and interference in the affairs of other countries, of the imposition of alien will on sovereign states, whatever the form or justification, and of the blocking of their independent internal development.
On these bases the two sides emphasized the importance of broadening the process of negotiations and cooperation in the world, as well as the need for a comprehensive process of detente which should include the largest possible number of countries, and be based on strict respect for the independence, sovereignty, and territorial integrity of all states. This was judged to be all the more significant as the world is undergoing great change requiring reciprocal restraint on the part of all countries from actions which disrupt world peace and stability. They reaffirmed the role of the U.N. as an essential instrument for preserving peace, for the peaceful settlement of disputes, and for strengthening cooperation in the world.
The discussion also encompassed general questions of security and cooperation in Europe. Both sides affirmed the obligation to implement all provisions of the Helsinki Final Act and stressed their determination to strengthen the CSCE process and to work for balanced progress in all areas at the Madrid meeting, in the conviction that doing so would improve security and cooperation among all signatories of the Final Act, and would have broader significance.
The two sides exchanged views on the consequences of further arms competition from the standpoint of preserving peace and security, the current worsening international situation, and the need for general economic development. They agreed on the need resolutely to pursue effective, equitable and verifiable arms limitation, arms reduction, and disarmament agreements based on the principles of undiminished security of all states. The objective should be gradual reduction of armaments to the lowest possible level consistent with the security and stability of all nations, with the ultimate objective of general and complete disarmament under effective international control. The two sides took note of the significance of the U.S.-Soviet Strategic Arms Limitation Treaty. They also agreed upon the urgent need for further progress through negotiations, both bilateral and multilateral, toward the limitation and reduction of nuclear and conventional armaments.
Special attention was devoted in the discussions to the worsening situation of developing countries and of the international economic situation as a whole. Proceeding from the growing interdependence of all nations, it was mutually affirmed that there is an urgent need to seek solutions to unresolved questions and to seek the equitable harmonization of the economic interests of all countries. The two sides agreed on the far-reaching political importance of the continuation of a constructive dialogue between industrial and developing countries and on the furthering of international economic cooperation on a more stable and just basis. They especially emphasized the importance of greater support of the industrially developed countries for the more rapid development of developing countries and of the importance of the global negotiations on these questions. They expressed the hope that these negotiations will achieve productive results for the benefit of all, and particularly for developing countries, which would be in the interest of the more efficient functioning of the entire world economy.
Considering the various aspects of human rights, the two sides also agreed that efforts to enhance respect for human rights in all countries should proceed in accord with the provisions of the Charter of the U.N., the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, and the Helsinki Final Act.
Agreeing upon the need to invest decisive effort toward the equitable solution of both previously existing and new crises in the world, the U.S. and the Yugoslav sides assessed current developments in the Near East, South Africa, Southwest and Southeast Asia, and other areas.
The two sides expressed their special concern about the situation in the Middle East, which remains a source of great tension in international affairs. They agreed on the urgent need to find a comprehensive, just and lasting solution to the problems of the Middle East and explained in detail their respective views on the current situation.
Turning to Southern Africa, the American and Yugoslav sides condemned racism in all forms and the South African system of apartheid. They expressed their support for efforts directed at the achievement of majority rule and national independence in Namibia. They welcomed recent developments in Zimbabwe.
Both sides emphasized the need to respect the right of Iran to independence and to non-alignment, as well as its right to determine its own internal development and orientation in international affairs without outside interference and pressure. They agreed that the release of the U.S. diplomats held hostage in Iran and the peaceful resolution by the U.S. and Iran of the issues between them, on the basis of the principles of the U.N. Charter, would greatly contribute to peace and stability in this region.
The two sides called for an end to military intervention and all other forms of interference in the internal affairs of independent countries. Both sides emphasized the need for the foreign troops involved to be withdrawn and an end put to all causes of suffering and sacrifice in such countries.' They also called for further humanitarian efforts by the international community to resolve the problems of refugees.
In this connection, each side elaborated its viewpoint on ways to resolve the situations which have arisen in Afghanistan and Kampuchea, emphasizing the need to respect the rights of all peoples to determine their own destiny.
President Carter and the President of the Presidency of the SFRY emphasized the significance of non-alignment as an independent factor in international affairs. President Carter affirmed that the United States respects the desire of the non-aligned states to determine their own internal development and orientation in international affairs.
President Carter reiterated the continuing respect and support of the United States for the independence, territorial integrity, and unity of Yugoslavia. The United States considers an independent and non-aligned Yugoslavia an important factor for balance, peace and stability in Europe and the world.
The two sides emphasized their determination further to expand and to enrich qualitatively the current successful development of friendly relations between the SFRY and the USA, on the basis of equality and with full mutual respect for the differences in each other's social system and international position.
President Carter extended an invitation to the President of the Presidency of the SFRY to visit the United States and the invitation was accepted with pleasure.
  