
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Kevin Madden (857) 288-6390
Bonilla To Serve As Honorary Texas Finance Chairman
Boston, MA – Today, Governor Mitt Romney announced that former Congressman Henry Bonilla (R-TX) has endorsed his campaign for President of the United States. Congressman Bonilla will help build and expand Governor Romney's grassroots infrastructure across Texas and will communicate Governor Romney's vision of conservative change in Washington. Bonilla will also serve as Governor Romney's Honorary Texas Finance Chairman, helping Governor Romney raise the resources needed to campaign in Texas and across the country.
Making today's announcement, Governor Romney said, "I am proud to welcome a man as distinguished as Congressman Bonilla to our strong and growing Texas organization. During his time in the U.S. House of Representatives, Congressman Bonilla fought to keep our military strong, our taxes low, and our government small. He represented his Congressional District with principled leadership, and I am honored to have his counsel and endorsement."
Announcing his support, Congressman Bonilla said, "Governor Romney is a proven leader, and is the only candidate who can bring real change to Washington. He has a record of strong leadership and problem-solving. He fought for conservative social and economic principles in the bluest of blue states. I am proud to support Mitt Romney for President of the United States."
Congressman Mike Conaway (R-TX) has also endorsed Governor Romney.
Background On Congressman Henry Bonilla:
Congressman Bonilla Represented Texas's 23rd Congressional District In The United States House Of Representatives From 1993 To 2007. As a Member of Congress, he fought to reduce government spending and became a champion for protecting private property rights and for reducing the federal burden on small businesses. He was also dedicated to keeping our military strong as he represented six military bases within his constituency by serving as a senior member on the Appropriations Subcommittee on Defense. Congressman Bonilla also broke ground as the first Hispanic Republican to be elected to Congress from Texas, as well as being the first freshman Representative in more than 25 years to serve on the House Appropriations Committee.
  