
    The Three-Legged Republican Stool:
Governor Romney: Strong Military, Economy And Families. GOVERNOR ROMNEY: "I speak about three-legs to the Republican stool being necessary to win a general election, which is a conservative base in terms of military, economic and family and family values. ... I think we're better if we have a three-legged stool and if we have all parts of our campaign focused on those issues and that's exactly what I intend to do." (Fox News' "America's Newsroom," 6/6/07)
Watch Governor Romney Here.
Enforcing Our Current Immigration Laws:
Governor Romney: "Well, one is to enforce the law as it exists. ... The law passed in 1986 asked for us to secure the border and said also to put in place an employment verification system. Neither one of those was done. So let's make sure that we enforce the law as it exists." (CNN, Republican Presidential Candidate Debate, Manchester, NH, 6/5/07)
Watch Governor Romney's Full Remarks Here .
Repealing McCain Feingold:
Romney For President Special Adviser On Life Issues Jim Bopp: "Romney attacks McCain-Feingold because the 'electioneering communication' prohibition imposes a 'free speech blackout period,' where corporations, including non-profit advocacy groups, and labor unions would commit a federal crime if they mentioned the name of a federal candidate in a broadcast ad within 30 days of a primary and 60 of a general election. ... There can be no doubt that this 'free speech blackout period' is an 'unprecedented restriction on the political activities of everyday Americans.'" (James Bopp, Jr., Op-Ed, "There Is Nothing 'Wrongheaded' About Romney's Call For Repeal Of McCain-Feingold," Townhall, 6/7/07)
Read Jim Bopp's Full Op-Ed Here.
Conservative Principles In Health Care:
Governor Romney: "Every Democrat up there is talking about a form of socialized medicine, government takeover, massive tax increase. We have to stand up and not just talk about it. I'm the guy who actually tackled this issue. We get all of our citizens insured. We get people that were uninsured with private health insurance. We have to stand up and say, 'The market works. Personal responsibility works.' We're going to have insurance for all of our citizens they can afford, that's theirs, that's portable. They never have to worry about losing it. That's the answer." (CNN, Republican Presidential Candidate Debate, Manchester, NH, 6/5/07)
Watch Governor Romney's Full Remarks Here.
A Global Vision:
Governor Romney: "We are a unique nation, and there is no substitute for our leadership. ... Our future and that of generations to come depend on our resolve to move beyond the divisiveness in Washington today and unite America and our allies to confront a new generation of global challenges." (Governor Mitt Romney, "Rising To A New Generation Of Global Challenges," Foreign Affairs, July/August 2007)
Governor Romney: "Yet the jihad is much broader than any one nation, or even several nations. ... The jihadist threat is the defining challenge of our generation and is symptomatic of a range of new global realities." (Governor Mitt Romney, "Rising To A New Generation Of Global Challenges," Foreign Affairs, July/August 2007)
Read The Full Foreign Affairs Article Here.
Read The Research Briefing On The Obama Vision Vs. Romney Vision Here.
  