
    WOODBRIDGE, NJ-- U.S. Senator John McCain's presidential campaign today announced its New Jersey State Campaign Co-Chairs. These State Co-Chairs will lead outreach efforts and continue the campaign's momentum in the Garden State.
"John McCain has committed resources to the state with the opening of an office, he's committed time by visiting the state on numerous occasions, and he has a grassroots team committed to working for him," said State Campaign Chairman Bill Baroni. 
Yesterday, the McCain campaign opened its Regional Headquarters in Woodbridge. This marks the first time in 16 years that a Republican presidential candidate has had a permanent, physical presence in New Jersey.
John McCain has visited New Jersey five times since the beginning of the campaign, including a recent townhall meeting in Pemberton.

As State Campaign Chairman, Senator Baroni will work closely with State Campaign Coordinator Rick Mroz and the Co-Chairs to spread John McCain'smessage of peace, prosperity and reform. Senator McCain's investment in a regional headquarters demonstrates confidence in his ability to compete for New Jersey's votes. His campaign leadership will play an important role in organizing the campaign's presence on the ground.
"Too many in Washington are putting politics first and country second. New Jersey voters, from all political backgrounds, are getting behind a candidate who has, time and again, set aside his own interests to work together on solutions for America, John McCain," said Regional Campaign Manager Bill Stepien.
Senator McCain's New Jersey State Co-Chairs include:
Senator Jennifer Beck
Atlantic County GOP Chairman Keith Davis
Assemblyman Alex DeCroce
Camden County GOP Chairman Rick DeMichele
Bergen County Clerk Kathleen Donovan
Peter Kane, former State Chair, Huckabee for President
Senator Sean Kean
Senator Tom Kean, Jr
Senator Joe Kyrillos, former State Chair, Romney for President
Assemblywoman Alison Littell McHose
Morris County Freeholder John Murphy
Senator Kevin O'Toole
Morris County Sheriff Ed Rochford
  