
    "This is a truly amazing moment in the energy sector, and President Trump is seeking to capitalize on the opportunity for the betterment of the American economy and our citizens. For the first time in four decades, the energy story in the United States is about becoming an energy exporter and no longer about peak resources or being beholden to foreign powers."
Paving the path to U.S. energy dominance
By Rick Perry, Ryan Zinke and Scott Pruitt
Washington Times
June 27, 2017
This week, the Trump administration is hosting "Energy Week" to discuss with state, tribal, business and labor leaders how we can pave the path forward toward U.S. energy dominance.
This is a truly amazing moment in the energy sector, and President Trump is seeking to capitalize on the opportunity for the betterment of the American economy and our citizens. For the first time in four decades, the energy story in the United States is about becoming an energy exporter and no longer about peak resources or being beholden to foreign powers.
Mr. Trump wants America to utilize our abundant domestic energy resources and technological innovations for good, both at home and abroad. An energy-dominant America means a self-reliant and secure nation, free from the geopolitical turmoil of other nations that seek to use energy as an economic weapon.
An energy-dominant America will export to markets around the world, increasing our global leadership and influence. Becoming energy dominant means that we are getting government out of the way so that we can share our energy wealth with developing nations. For years, Washington stood in the way of our energy dominance. That changes now.
...
The implications of becoming energy dominant are profound. Under President Trump's leadership, we will continue to advocate for a broad "all of the above" energy portfolio to allow the United States to achieve energy independence, dramatically reduce our trade deficits, and create jobs beyond the 6.4 million Americans currently employed in the sector.
We look forward to hearing from Americans this week about how we can best move forward to reduce unnecessary government regulation and bureaucracy to promote jobs and economic growth in the energy sector. For years they have been overregulated by Washingtonians who believed they knew best. The lecturing is over, now it is time to listen to those who are delivering on real outcomes.
Read the full op-ed here.
  