
    The President today announced the designation of eight members of the National Security Council staff as Special Assistants to the President, reporting to the Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs, William P. Clark. They are as follows:
Norman A. Bailey, Senior Director of International Economic Affairs and Special Assistant to the President. Dr. Bailey is a graduate of Oberlin College (A.B.) and Columbia University (M.I.A. and Ph.D.) and was on the faculty of the City University of New York from 1962 until he joined the NSC staff in 1981. His business career has included work as an international economist for the Mobil Oil Co., president of Overseas Equity Inc. (international financial consulting) and president of Bailey, Tondu, Warwick & Co., Inc. (international investment banking). He speaks five languages and has authored books, articles, short stories, plays, and poetry. He is married, has four children, and lives in McLean, Va. He was born in Illinois in 1931.
Richard S. Beal, Senior Director of Crisis Management Support and Planning and Special Assistant to the President. Dr. Beal has been Special Assistant to the President and Director of the Office of Planning and Evaluation since January 1981. He was formerly associate professor of international relations and political science at Brigham Young University. He received his Ph.D. in international relations from the University of Southern California. He was a Fulbright-Hays Scholar at Jawaharlal Nehru University in New Delhi, India. He is married, has five children, and lives in Herndon, Va. He was born in Washington, D.C., in 1945.
Donald R. Fortier, Senior Director of Political-Military Affairs and Special Assistant to the President. Mr. Fortier was Deputy Director of the Policy Planning Staff at the Department of State from February 1981 until he joined the NSC staff in September 1982. He was formerly a member of the professional staff of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, serving first as a consultant to the Subcommittee on International Security and Scientific Affairs and later as a senior consultant to the full committee. Prior to that, he was employed as a defense consultant by the Rand Corp. He received his undergraduate degree from Miami University in Oxford, Ohio, and his M.A. in political science and international relations at the University of Chicago, where he held a Ford Foundation scholarship. He is married, has one son, and lives in Chevy Chase, Md. He was born in Ohio in 1947.
Geoffrey T. H. Kemp, Senior Director of Near East and South Asian Affairs and Special Assistant to the President. Prior to joining the NSC at the start of the Reagan administration, Dr. Kemp was a professor of international politics at the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy, Tufts University. From 1975 to 1976, he worked in the office of Assistant Secretary of Defense for International Security Affairs. He has been a consultant to the Senate Committee on Foreign Relations and the Department of Defense. Before joining Tufts, he was a research associate at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology Center for International Studies, and from 1965-1967 was a research associate with the International Institute for Strategic Studies in London. He received his B.A. and M.A. degrees from Oxford University and his Ph.D. in political science from MIT. He has published studies on national security policy with emphasis on U.S. political-military relations with the Middle East countries. Born in the United Kingdom in 1939, he is a naturalized U.S. citizen and lives in Washington, D.C.
Ronald F. Lehman, Senior Director of Defense Programs and Arms Control and Special Assistant to the President. Dr. Lehman was Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for International Security Policy prior to joining the NSC staff in May 1983. Previously, he was a member of the professional staff of the Senate Armed Services Committee. He came to Washington as a Public Affairs Fellow of the Hoover Institution on War, Revolution and Peace and then worked as a legislative assistant on Capitol Hill. A major in the United States Army Reserve, he is airborne qualified and served in Vietnam. In 1980, he was with the office of policy coordination in the office of the President-elect. A graduate of Claremont Men's College in California, he received his Ph.D. in government from the Claremont Graduate School. Dr. Lehman, who is married and lives in Arlington, Va., was born in California in 1946.
Walter Raymond, Jr., Senior Director of International Communications and Information, and Special Assistant to the President. Prior to joining the NSA staff in July 1982, Mr. Raymond was an information and political officer and a foreign policy specialist whose government service began in 1952. He has served with the United States Army, Department of Defense, Central Intelligence Agency, and Department of State, and has lived in Germany, France, and England. He speaks French and German and has traveled extensively in Europe and the Middle East. He received his B.A. from the College of William and Mary, a masters degree from Yale University, and is a graduate of the National War College. He was born in New York in 1929.
Gaston J. Sigur, Jr., Senior Director of Asian Affairs and Special Assistant to the President. Dr. Sigur is presently on leave from the George Washington University, where he has served as professor of international affairs and director of the Institute for Sino-Soviet Studies since 1972. He has lived some 10 years in Japan and 3 1/2 in Afghanistan, where he was representative of the Asia Foundation. He received his Ph.D. degree in history from the University of Michigan. He has written numerous articles and monographs on East Asian affairs. His most recent work is an edited volume entitled "Japan and U.S. Policy in Asia," published by Praeger in 1982. He is married, has five children, and lives in Kensington, Md. He was born in Louisiana in 1924.
Robert B. Sims, Senior Director of Public Affairs and Special Assistant to the President. A Navy public affairs specialist, Captain Sims was a Senior Research Fellow at the National Defense University before joining the NSC staff in May of 1982. He was Deputy Chief of Information for the Navy Department 1978-1981 and Special Assistant for Public Affairs to the Secretary of the Navy 1974-1978. He has a B.A. degree from Union University, was a Rotary Foundation Fellow studying international relations at the University of Sydney, Australia, has masters degrees in journalism and in political science from the University of Wisconsin, and is a graduate of the National War College. His writings include "The Pentagon Reporters," a book to be published this year. He is married, has four children, and lives in McLean, Va. He was born in Tennessee in 1934.
  