
    "All the nations of the world — friend or foe — will find that America is strong, America is proud, and America is free." – President Donald J. Trump 
MOMENTUM FOR POSITIVE CHANGE WITH NORTH KOREA: President Donald J. Trump has taken a bold first step to denuclearize the Korean Peninsula.

President Trump held a historic summit with Chairman Kim Jong Un. 
The summit marked a bold first step to achieving the complete, verifiable, and irreversible denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula. 
During the summit, North Korea reaffirmed its commitment to complete denuclearization, agreed to help the United States recover POW/MIA remains, and committed to destroying a missile engine testing site. 
The summit built on the progress President Trump had already achieved, including:

The return of three Americans detained in North Korea; 
The March pledge by North Korea to refrain from any further nuclear or missile tests; and 
The apparent closure of North Korea's nuclear test site. 



WITHDRAWING FROM THE UNACCEPTABLE IRAN DEAL: President Trump has ended United States participation in the disastrous Iran deal.

President Trump terminated United States participation in the Iran deal, as it failed to protect America's national security interests.

The one-sided "deal" gave Iran a windfall of cash, enabling its malign behavior. 
The President directed his Administration to immediately begin the process of re-imposing sanctions on Iran. 


The Trump Administration has issued serious sanctions targeting Iranian entities and activities, including:

Financial and procurement networks supporting the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps-Qods Force. 
Iranian entities engaging in human rights abuses and censorship on behalf of the Iranian regime. 
Iranian individuals providing ballistic missiles and technical expertise to Yemen's Houthis. 



DESTROYING ISIS: The Trump Administration has worked with allies to destroy ISIS and liberate territory previously occupied by the self-declared caliphate. 

President Trump has empowered United States commanders with broad authority to defeat ISIS. 
ISIS has lost nearly all of its territory, more than half of which has been liberated under the Trump Administration. 
In December 2017, the Iraqi government announced all Iraqi territory had been liberated from ISIS control. 
ISIS' self-proclaimed capital city Raqqah was recaptured in October 2017. 

RESPONDING TO SYRIA'S USE OF CHEMICAL WEAPONS: President Trump has forcefully responded to the Syrian regime's use of chemical weapons. 

The President authorized military strikes, responding to the Syrian regime's savage chemical weapons attacks.

In April 2018, the United States, the United Kingdom, and France launched strikes against targets associated with the Syrian regime's chemical weapons capabilities. 
In April 2017, President Trump directed United States military forces to strike a Syrian airfield used in the regime's chemical weapons attack earlier that month. 


President Trump has joined with allies to call on Syria to fully declare and dismantle its chemical weapons arsenal and to deter chemical weapons use worldwide. 
Since February 2017, the Department of Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control has rolled out sanctions targeting 284 individuals and entities responsible for supporting the Syrian regime's use of military force and chemical weapons against civilians. 

RECOGNIZING JERUSALEM AS ISRAEL'S CAPITAL: President Trump followed through on his promise to recognize Jerusalem as Israel's capital and open the United States Embassy there. 

President Trump acted on his pledge to recognize the reality that Jerusalem is Israel's capital and open the United States Embassy there.

In December 2017, President Trump announced the United States would recognize Jerusalem as the capital of Israel. 
In May 2018, the United States officially opened its Embassy in Jerusalem. 



  