
    Mitt Romney announced today that U.S. Representative Cathy McMorris Rodgers (Wa.) will serve as the campaign's point person in the U.S. House of Representatives. In this role, she will serve as liaison between the campaign and the Republican Conference in the U.S. House of Representatives. She will partner with U.S. Senator Roy Blunt (Mo.), who has spearheaded the campaign's congressional outreach efforts since last fall and will continue to serve as the campaign's liaison to the U.S. Senate. "I am honored that Congresswoman McMorris Rodgers has agreed to take a leadership role on behalf of the campaign," said Mitt Romney. "She understands the impact of the economic challenges Americans face and the need to put our country on a better track. As a member of the leadership team in the House, she will be a helpful partner in our efforts to ensure our focus remains on the critical issue of economic security for all Americans."
"I am truly honored to serve as the leader of Mitt Romney's House team," said Congresswoman McMorris Rodgers. "Governor Romney has demonstrated the leadership and vision that we have been fighting for in Congress to stop runaway government spending and create an environment for job creation. I look forward to working with the campaign, Senator Blunt, and leaders across the country in our effort to get our country back on the right track."
"I have enjoyed working with Congresswoman McMorris Rodgers for many years, and I know she's a tireless public servant who will serve as a valuable leader for Governor Romney's campaign," said Senator Blunt. "President Obama's policies have failed to put people back to work and get our economy back on track, which is why I look forward to working with Congresswoman McMorris Rodgers and other leaders to help elect Governor Romney this November."
Background On Representative McMorris Rodgers:
Cathy McMorris Rodgers is now in her fourth term in Congress representing Eastern Washington's fifth congressional district. She was elected by her colleagues to serve as a member of the Republican Leadership team in 2009 as vice chair of the House GOP Conference. Prior to serving in the House, she served five terms as a citizen legislator in Olympia eventually being elected to minority leader. When the legislature was not in session Cathy worked in her family's small business, Peachcrest Fruit Basket, near Kettle Falls, Washington. She attended Pensacola Christian College in Florida and earned her Executive MBA from the University of Washington. She is married to Brian Rodgers, a retired 26 year active-duty Navy Commander; they have two children, Cole and Grace.
  