
    The following list does not include promotions of members of the Uniformed Services, nominations to the Service Academies, or nominations of Foreign Service officers.
Submitted June 13
Edward Scott Blair, of Tennessee, to be U.S. Marshal for the Middle District of Tennessee, vice Charles F. Goggin III.
Michael William Cotter, of the District of Columbia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Turkmenistan.
James E. Goodby, of the District of Columbia, for the rank of Ambassador during his tenure of service as Principal Negotiator for the Safe and Secure Dismantlement of Nuclear Weapons.
Victor Jackovich, of Iowa, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Slovenia.
A. Elizabeth Jones, of Maryland, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Kazakhstan.
John Raymond Malott, of Virginia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Malaysia.
John K. Menzies, of Virginia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
Kenneth Michael Quinn, of Iowa, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Cambodia.
John Todd Stewart, of California, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Moldova.
Submitted June 14
Beth Susan Slavet, of Massachusetts, to be a member of the Merit Systems Protection Board for the term of 7 years expiring March 1, 2002, vice Jessica L. Parks, term expired.
  