
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
June 17
In the morning, the President attended the plenary session of the Group of Seven summit at the Maritime Museum in Halifax, Nova Scotia. Later in the morning, he went to Summit Place where he participated in a G-7 leaders meeting and a press conference.
In the afternoon, the President attended a farewell luncheon at the World Trade Club.
In the evening, the President and Hillary Clinton returned to Washington, DC.
June 20
The President announced his intention to nominate Derrick L. Forrister as Assistant Secretary for Congressional, Intergovernmental and Public Liaison at the Department of Energy.
The President announced his intention to nominate Alberto Mora as a member of the Broadcasting Board of Governors for the International Bureau of Broadcasting.
The President announced that Theodore C. Sorensen, Harrison J. Goldin, and Jules B. Kroll have been named to serve on the Board of Directors of the Central Asian-American Enterprise Fund.
The President announced that James C. Rosapepe has been named to serve on the Board of Directors of the Albanian-American Enterprise Fund.
June 21
In the morning, the President met with Members of Congress in the Oval Office.
The President announced his intention to nominate John T. Conway as Chairman and member of the Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board.
The President announced his intention to appoint A. Huda Farouki to the Advisory Committee on the Arts of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts.
The President announced his intention to appoint Norman R. Augustine as Principal Officer of the Board of Governors of the American National Red Cross.
June 22
In the afternoon, the President and Hillary Clinton traveled to Edison, NJ, where they toured the assembly line at the Ford Motor Co. plant. In the late afternoon, they traveled to Somerset, NJ.
In the evening, the President and Hillary Clinton traveled to Little Rock, AR.
The President announced his intention to renominate Stephen D. Potts as Director of the Office of Government Ethics.
June 23
In the afternoon, the President and Hillary Clinton attended "America's Hope, Arkansas' Pride Luncheon" in the William J. Clinton Ballroom at the Excelsior Hotel.
The President announced his intention to nominate Jill L. Long as Under Secretary for Rural, Economic and Community Development at the Department of Agriculture.
The President announced his intention to appoint former Senator Birch Bayh to be a member of the J. William Fulbright Foreign Scholarship Board.
  