
    Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Chairman of the Council of Ministers, all of our distinguished guests:
We feel somewhat embarrassed to be the hosts in this great palace which is not ours, but yours. But this is an indication of the great hospitality which our friends from Poland have extended to us on this visit.
We shall take away many memories of this visit: the memories of the warm reception of the people of Warsaw, the memories of our very constructive talks, of the agreements which we reached. But most important, we shall take away the memories of the people at this table, the leaders of this country whom we have had the privilege to talk to face to face, man to man, and learn to know, because an agreement can be made at any time by any group of leaders, but what really matters is the continuity; what really matters is the follow-through.
Now that we know each other so well, we have the opportunity, through direct contact, to follow through on some of the great objectives we talked about in our discussions. But unless the leaders get, perhaps, too confident of their abilities, let me say that Mrs. Nixon and I agree that just as great a privilege was to meet the wives of the leaders and to have them here on this occasion.
I will only say in conclusion that tonight, while you are asleep, but when it is only 9:30 in the United States, I will be addressing the United States Congress in joint session. I will report on many things--the results of our trips to Austria, to Iran, to the Soviet Union, and, of course, to Poland. I can assure you that one of the greatest impressions that will be made upon the 500 Members of the House and Senate who will be there will be my report that there is still that strong bond of friendship between the Polish people and the American people, because Poland has always had a special place in the hearts of Americans--from the time of our revolution, in which Poles were so helpful, through the period when we have fought side by side as allies against common enemies.
In conclusion, I can only say that we appreciate the opportunity to receive you in this magnificent room, but we also look forward to the opportunity, based on the communiqué that we announced today, of receiving the leaders of Poland in the White House. Now, that makes no predictions as to whether I shall be there, but you can be sure whoever is there will receive the representatives of the great Polish people with a warm heart. So, if we can raise our glasses to Polish-American friendship in the past, in the present, and for all the years to come.
  