
    To the Congress of the United States:
I am pleased to transmit to the Congress, pursuant to Section 123 d of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended (42 U.S.C. 2153(d) ), the text of the proposed agreement between the United States and Peru Concerning Peaceful Uses of Nuclear Energy, with an accompanying agreed minute. The proposed agreement is accompanied by my written determination, approval, and authorization and the memorandum of the Director of the United States Arms Control and Disarmament Agency with the Nuclear Proliferation Assessment Statement concerning the agreement. The joint memorandum submitted to me by the Secretaries of State and Energy, which includes a summary analysis of the provisions of the agreement, and the views of the Director of the United States Arms Control and Disarmament Agency and of the Members of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission are also enclosed.
The Nuclear Non-Proliferation Act of 1978, which I signed into law on March 10, 1978, establishes certain requirements for new agreements for cooperation. In my judgment, the proposed agreement for cooperation between the United States and Peru, together with its agreed minute, meets all statutory requirements.
Peru has long supported the Treaty of Tlatelolco and the Non-Proliferation Treaty, having ratified the former on March 4, 1969, and the latter on March 3, 1970, and supports international non-proliferation efforts generally. The proposed agreement reflects the desire of the Government of the United States and the Government of Peru to broaden the scope of peaceful nuclear cooperation in a manner that recognizes the shared nonproliferation objectives of our two countries. The proposed agreement will, in my view, further the non-proliferation and other foreign policy interests of the United States.
I have considered the views and recommendations of the interested agencies in reviewing the proposed agreement and have determined that its performance will promote, and will not constitute an unreasonable risk to, the common defense and security. Accordingly, I have approved the agreement and authorized its execution, and urge that the Congress give it favorable consideration.
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
June 27, 1980.
  