
    By June 19, Operation Fly Formula will transport nearly 12 million 8-ounce bottle equivalents to the U.S.
There are nine Operation Fly Formula flights currently scheduled for the week of July 13, projected to import more than 4 million, 8-ounce bottle equivalents of infant formula to the United States. By June 19, Operation Fly Formula flights will have imported nearly 12 million 8-ounce bottle equivalents of infant formula.

June 13: A United Airlines flight arrived at Dulles International Airport from London Heathrow carrying Kendamil infant formula.
June 14: Two United Airlines flights will arrive at Dulles International Airport from London Heathrow carrying Kendamil infant formula.
June 15: A United Airlines flight will arrive at Dulles International Airport from London Heathrow carrying Kendamil infant formula.
June 16: A flight will arrive in Columbus, OH, from Melbourne, Australia, carrying Bub's Australia infant formula.
June 17: A United Airlines flight will arrive at Dulles International Airport from London Heathrow carrying Kendamil infant formula.
June 18: A United Airlines flight will arrive at Dulles International Airport from London Heathrow carrying Kendamil infant formula.
June 19: Two United Airlines flights will arrive at Dulles International Airport from London Heathrow carrying Kendamil infant formula.

Kendamil infant formula is transferred to Target and made available through the company's national network of stores. Bub's Australia infant formula will be distributed across Walmart's national network of stores, as well as Albertsons Companies' and The Kroger Company's national network of subsidiary stores. In a lot of cases, though it depends on the state, Walmart, Albertsons Companies, and The Kroger Company stores accept benefits from the Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and Children or WIC.
Under Operation Fly Formula, the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA), the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), the General Services Administration (GSA), and the Department of Defense (DOD) are partnering to import infant formula from other nations that meets U.S. health and safety standards, so it can get to store shelves faster.
  