
    
  Warmly received at Champions of Jewish Values International Awards Gala

HOUSTON, Texas –- On Thursday, U.S Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas, spoke at the third annual Champions of Jewish Values International Awards Gala where he was given the group's "Defender of Israel" award and offered a clear vision for what our nation's next president must address to strengthen America's alliance with the nation of Israel. The dinner was organized by Rabbi Shmuley Boteach and among the guests was Holocaust survivor and author Elie Weisel, and Sheldon Adelson, one of America's most passionate advocates for Israel.
Haaretz noted, "Cruz captures conservative Jewish hearts at NY gala" and that "it was Cruz who stole the show, by far." The article continues:
When Cruz got on stage, for a moment the room shifted into a political rally more than a charity dinner: Cruz walked around the podium, without notes, and gave an impassioned address which listed his successes in office and proven commitment to Israel.
"Let us think about tomorrow. In nineteen months, there will be a new president of the United States."
Applause, screams and cheers. Thank Gods were heard throughout the front tables.
"Instead of a president who boycotts Prime Minister Netanyahu, imagine America standing unapologetically with the nation of Israel."
Cruz promised that, as president, he would move the embassy to Jerusalem: "We need a leader who will act, and who will respect eternal capital of Israel."
At the next table, a woman wiped away a tear. Cruz knows his audience: He speaks their language. He addresses the fears of American Jewry, and has clearly read American Jewish newspapers closely to understand the burning debates of Jews on this side of the Atlantic.

According to Bloomberg,
Cruz, a declared presidential candidate who was given the group's Defender of Israel award, during his speech ticked off a list of items the next president will need to be prepared to do to assist Israel and keep Iran's nuclear ambitions in check...
The roster, he said, is lengthy and may include: defunding the Palestinian Authority; transferring "bunker buster" bombs to Israel if its neighbor doesn't abandon the quest for nuclear weapons; and cutting off funding for U.S. universities that boycott Israel. In the event sanctions against the Islamic Republic are lifted, Cruz said the next president would need to be prepared to reinstate them if Iran was found to be seeking nuclear weapons.
"The single greatest threat facing the national security of Israel and the national security of America is the threat of Iran acquiring nuclear weapons," said Cruz, who received standing ovation. "I commit to you with everything I have to speak out and stop any deal that would allow Iran to acquire nuclear weapons."

  