
    The President of the United States of America and the President of the Russian Federation have agreed to substantial further reductions in strategic offensive arms. Specifically, the two sides have agreed upon and will promptly conclude a Treaty with the following provisions:
1. Within the seven-year period following entry into force of the START Treaty, they will reduce their strategic forces to no more than:
(a) an overall total number of warheads for each between 3800 and 4250 (as each nation shall determine) or such lower number as each nation shall decide.
(b) 1200 MIRVed ICBM warheads.
(c) 650 heavy ICBM warheads.
(d) 2160 SLBM warheads.
2. By the year 2003 (or by the end of the year 2000 if the United States can contribute to the financing of the destruction or elimination of strategic offensive arms in Russia), they will:
(a) reduce the overall total to no more than a number of warheads for each between 3000 and 3500 (as each nation shall determine) or such lower number as each nation shall decide.
(b) eliminate all MIRVed ICBMs.
(c) reduce SLBM warheads to between no more than 1700 to 1750 (as each nation shall determine).
3. For the purpose of calculating the overall totals described above:
(a) The number of warheads counted for heavy bombers with nuclear roles will be the number of nuclear weapons they are actually equipped to carry.
(b) Under agreed procedures, heavy bombers not to exceed 100 that were never equipped for long-range nuclear ALCMs and that are reoriented to conventional roles will not count against the overall total established by this agreement.
(i) Such heavy bombers will be based separately from heavy bombers with nuclear roles.
(ii) No nuclear weapons will be located at bases for heavy bombers with conventional roles.
(iii) Such aircraft and crews will not train or exercise for nuclear missions.
(iv) Current inspection procedures already agreed in the START Treaty will help affirm that these bombers have conventional roles. No new verification procedures are required.
(v) Except as otherwise agreed, these bombers will remain subject to the provisions of the START Treaty, including the inspection provisions.
4. The reductions required by this agreement will be carried out by eliminating missile launchers and heavy bombers using START procedures, and, in accordance with the plans of the two sides, by reducing the number of warheads on existing ballistic missiles other than the SS - 18. Except as otherwise agreed, ballistic missile warheads will be calculated according to START counting rules.
5. The two Presidents directed that this agreement be promptly recorded in a brief Treaty document which they will sign and submit for ratification in their respective countries. Because this new agreement is separate from but builds upon the START Treaty, they continue to urge that the START Treaty be ratified and implemented as soon as possible.
DONE at Washington, this seventeenth day of June, 1992, in two copies, each in the English and Russian languages, both texts being equally authentic.
FOR THE UNITED STATES OF
AMERICA
George Bush
FOR THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION
Boris Yeltsin
  