
    "When President Obama last appeared in front of the National Association of Latino Elected and Appointed Officials, he promised to create jobs and help restore the American dream. Four years later, with millions of Hispanics still unemployed and living in poverty, it's clear President Obama simply hasn't lived up to his own promises. As president, Mitt Romney will work from day one to help get Hispanics and all Americans back to work again." –Alberto Martinez, Romney Campaign Spokesman
Four Years After His Last Appearance, President Obama Will Return To NALEO's Annual Conference Today In Florida:
Today, President Obama Will Address The National Association Of Latino Elected And Appointed Officials. "The change in enforcement policy, to be carried out by the Department of Homeland Security, comes one week before Obama plans to address the National Association of Latino Elected and Appointed Officials' annual conference in Orlando, Fla. Romney is to speak to the group on Thursday." (Jim Kuhnhenn and Alicia A. Caldwell, "Obama Acts To Spare Many Youths From Deportation," The Associated Press, 6/15/12)
Why Has President Obama Avoided NALEO For Four Years? Maybe It's Because He Broke His Promises To Help Hispanics Find Jobs And Remain In Their Homes:
Candidate Obama, At NALEO In 2008: "We Can Tear Down The Barriers That Keep The American Dream Out Of Reach For So Many Americans." (President Barack Obama, Remarks, Washington, DC, 6/28/08)


    "More Latino Children Are Living In Poverty—6.1 Million In 2010—Than Children Of Any Other Racial Or Ethnic Group." (Mark Hugo Lopez, et al, "Childhood Poverty Among Hispanics Sets Record, Leads Nation," Pew Research Center, 9/28/11)
  



    Since 2008, More Hispanics Have Fallen Into Poverty – With 13.2 Million Hispanics In Poverty In 2010. (People With Income Below Specified Ratios Of Their Poverty Thresholds By Selected Characteristics, 2008, US Census Bureau, 9/10/2009; People And Families In Poverty By Selected Characteristics: 2009 And 2010, US Census Bureau, 9/13/11)
  



    The Pew Hispanic Center Found That 75% Of Hispanic-Americans Surveyed Rated Their Personal Finances As Being In "Only Fair" Or "Poor" Shape. "Large shares report that they or someone in their household has been out of work in the past year (59%); that their personal finances are in 'only fair' or 'poor' shape (75%); that they canceled or delayed a major purchase in the past year (49%); or that they are underwater on their mortgage (28% of Latino homeowners)." (Paul Taylor, et al, "Hispanics Say They Have The Worst Of A Bad Economy," Pew Research Center, 1/26/12)
  

Candidate Obama, At NALEO In 2008: "We Can ... Create Millions Of New Jobs." OBAMA: "We can end the housing crisis and create millions of new jobs." (President Barack Obama, Remarks, Washington, DC, 6/28/08)


    The National Unemployment Rate For Hispanic Workers "Rose To A Bleak 11 Percent In May, Almost 3 Points Higher Than The National Average." "The national unemployment rate for Latinos rose to a bleak 11 percent in May, almost 3 points higher than the national average of 8.2 percent, according to new numbers released Friday by the Bureau of Labor and Statistics. Since the last report, the Hispanic unemployment rate increased from 10.3 Percent to 11.0 Percent." (Serafin Gómez, "Unemployment Jumps To 11 Percent Among Latinos, Report Says," Fox News,6/1/12)
  



    Three Out Of Every Ten Hispanic Teenagers Are Unemployed. (Bureau Of Labor Statistics, www.bls.gov, 6/20/12)
  



    In May 2012, A Total Of 2.7 Million Hispanics Were Unemployed. (Bureau Of Labor Statistics, www.bls.gov, 6/20/12)
  



    More Than Half A Million More Hispanic Workers Are Unemployed Today Than When President Obama Took Office. (Bureau Of Labor Statistics, www.bls.gov, 6/20/12)
  

Candidate Obama, At NALEO In 2008: "We Can End The Housing Crisis..." OBAMA: "We can end the housing crisis and create millions of new jobs." (President Barack Obama, Remarks, Washington, DC, 6/28/08)


    Nearly 16 Million Homeowners Are Underwater On Their Mortgages. "Despite rising home prices, more than 30% of borrowers, or close to 16 million homeowners, were underwater on their mortgage during the first quarter, according to Zillow. The percentage of borrowers who owed more on their home than it was worth increased to 31.4% during the quarter, up slightly from 31.1% three months earlier, according to Zillow." (Les Christie, "More Than 30% Of Mortgage Borrowers Still Underwater," CNN Money, 5/24/12)
  

"28% Of Latino Homeowners Say They Owe More On Their Home Than What They Could Sell It For—Double The Share (14%) Of Homeowners In The General Population Who Say The Same." "The steep decline in housing prices has many Latino homeowners underwater on their home mortgages. According to Pew Hispanic survey, 28% of Latino homeowners say they owe more on their home than what they could sell it for—double the share (14%) of homeowners in the general population who say the same." (Paul Taylor, et al, "Hispanics Say They Have The Worst Of A Bad Economy," Pew Research Center, 1/26/12)
  