
    On Wednesday, President Biden highlighted how "Bidenomics," his economic agenda, is investing in America, growing the economy for middle class families, empowering workers and lowering costs.
The Bidenomics agenda is driving investments in communities across the country – like billions of dollars for states to connect every American to high-speed internet, investments to rebuild roads and bridges, and investments to build a clean energy economy, boost domestic manufacturing, create jobs and lower costs for the American people.
Republican Members of Congress in states across the country are all too happy to tout these investments, even though they voted against the legislation that made them possible in the first place.
Despite GOP "voting no but still wanting the dough," the Biden-Harris Administration will continue to deliver investments, lower costs, and opportunity to hardworking Americans in every corner of the country.
See coverage below:
Politico: White House touts legislative wins on the road, in GOP strongholds  [Jennifer Haberkorn, 06/28/23]
The Biden administration insists it is merely hitting the parts of the country where investments are taking place, ribbons await cuts and dirt needs turning. But officials are also eager to draw a contrast between the Democrats who got this legislation passed and the Republicans who have opposed and tried to repeal it.
The administration wants to ensure "people know where these benefits are coming from and who is trying to take them away," said White House deputy chief of staff Natalie Quillian, who is tasked with managing implementation of the laws. "We saw this in glaring contrast, when some Republicans in Congress, most recently in the debt limit discussions, tried to strip away many of the benefits of the Inflation Reduction Act."
Washington Post: Biden calls out Tuberville for hailing broadband money after opposing law  [Meagan Vazquez, 06/29/23]
The Biden administration's plan aims to deliver reliable broadband to the entire country by 2030. Alabama is among the 10 states receiving the most funding through the plan — $1.4 billion.
Mitch Landrieu, the White House infrastructure implementation coordinator, said it is "unfortunate that congressional Republicans like Senator Tuberville voted no but still want the dough. If they had integrity, they'd applaud President Biden's leadership for putting us on the path to bringing reliable, affordable high-speed internet to every American."
The responses to Republican statements about broadband expansion are part of broader efforts by the White House to illustrate a contrast between Democratic policy efforts and GOP opposition.
AL.com: Biden, Tuberville spar over Alabama broadband, Space Command: 'See you at the groundbreaking'  [William Thorton 06/28/23]
President Joe Biden today used Twitter to weigh into the controversy over U.S. Sen. Tommy Tuberville lauding more than a billion dollars in federal aid for Alabama that he didn't vote for.
"See you at the groundbreaking," Biden tweeted.
Late Tuesday, Mitch Landrieu, senior advisor to the president and infrastructure law coordinator, commented on the brouhaha over broadband expansion.
"While Congressional Republicans like Sen. Tommy Tuberville continue to play political games like partisan voting at the expense of their own constituents, President Biden remains focused on delivering real results for hardworking Americans," Landrieu said.
"It's unfortunate that some voted no but still want the dough. If they had integrity, they'd applaud President Biden's leadership for putting us on the path to provide reliable, affordable high-speed internet to every American."
Post and Courier: US Rep. Nancy Mace endorses Charleston bus project. But she voted against its funding. [Caitlyn Byrd, 06/28/23]
A routine press conference on a federal grant for Charleston's bus system put Republican U.S. Rep. Nancy Mace on the defensive after Democrats pounced on the fact she actually voted against the bill that made it happen.
While Mace voted against the 2021 Bipartisan Infrastructure Act, even calling it a "fiasco" and "socialist wish list," she appeared at the June 28 press event in support of the local effort.
The law brought a nearly $26 million grant for a regional transit hub and will help the Charleston Area Regional Transportation Authority transition to a fully electric bus fleet by 2040.
Secretary Pete Buttigieg took a moment to respond after he was asked about House Republicans celebrating area infrastructure projects that were funded by a law they voted against.
"Well," he said, "I would say welcome aboard."
The Houston Chronicle: White House slams Cornyn for touting broadband funding he opposed  [Ben Wermund, 06/28/23]
Texas Republican tweeted out two news stories highlighting $3.3 billion in funding for broadband expansion that Texas is on tap to receive. Cornyn did not add commentary beyond tweeting wording from the stories themselves, but the White House accused him of celebrating federal funding he opposed.
Mitch Landrieu, senior advisor to the president who is coordinating the infrastructure law rollout, said Cornyn was playing "political games" and voting "at the expense of" his constituents.
"It's unfortunate that some voted no but still want the dough," he said in a statement. "If they had integrity, they'd applaud President Biden's leadership for putting us on the path to provide reliable, affordable high-speed internet to every American."
  