
    Mr. General Secretary, our hosts from the Soviet Union, and all of our friends from the United States:
We want to express our appreciation to you, Mr. General Secretary, and to our hosts for this splendid dinner. There is a saying in our country on occasion when one is a guest, "Make yourself at home." Tonight we had that somewhat reversed, because Mrs. Dobrynin told me that all the things that were served tonight, including the wines in this magnificent banquet, were brought from the Soviet Union. So we had a chance this evening to be, in a sense, in the Soviet Union, and we thank her for her thoughtfulness in giving us that opportunity.
On this occasion, I am reminded of the fact that it marks several events. This is the last day that Secretary Rogers will be 59 years of age. He will be 60 tomorrow, so we wish him a happy birthday in advance.
Also, Mr. General Secretary, this happens to be the 33d wedding anniversary for Mrs. Nixon and me, and we appreciate your arranging this dinner on this occasion.
And, of course, as you know, all over the world, June 21 is the longest day in the year. I remember just a little over a year ago a very long day, almost as long as the longest day in the year. Just before midnight, Mr. General Secretary, you and I signed the first agreement on limiting nuclear arms in the Kremlin. To show how our relations have moved forward since that time, we signed the second agreement with regard to limiting nuclear arms at 12:30, in the middle of the day, today.
And in addition to that, as you pointed out in your remarks, we signed a parallel agreement with regard to cooperation in the field of the peaceful uses of atomic energy.
You have spoken eloquently about these two agreements. There is little I can add except to say that all of us know that this enormous source of nuclear power can either destroy the world or it can build a new world with the peaceful energy which can be unleashed for the benefit of all mankind.
Today we have taken a very important step in limiting the power of destruction and in unleashing the power of creation.
As idealistic men--and I know, Mr. General Secretary, from our long talks in Moscow and the talks we have had at Camp David and here in Washington, we both share the ideal of building a world of peace--we are pleased with the progress we have made so far in the agreements that we have signed in limitation of nuclear arms. But as practical men--as we are both practical men--we realize that we have taken two steps, but there is still a long way to go. We recognize that we must dedicate ourselves toward going further in not only limiting this great power of destruction but also of eventually, we trust, reducing the burden of arms which bears down so heavily on the world and on our two peoples.
This will not come easily. It will come only after extensive negotiation. But with continued contact, with continued discussion such as the kind of discussions that we have had on this occasion and in Moscow a year ago, we can move forward in that direction between our two countries and thereby set an example for other countries in the world. And for that reason, it is with a great deal of pleasure that I accept the very generous invitation you have extended for me to return to Moscow next year for a third meeting.
In that third meeting I will, of course, look forward to what will be my fifth visit to the Soviet Union, to see more of your country and to meet more of your people. But also I shall look forward again to the kind of discussions we have had on this occasion and concrete results toward the goal that we have dedicated ourselves to jointly on this occasion--the goal of not only better relations between our two countries, not only peace between our two countries, but recognizing the rights of all countries, large and small, to live in a world of peace without threat from any of their neighbors.
It is this goal to which we are dedicated. And if our two great countries can set an example in this direction and have concrete results following it in the various meetings that we will have, perhaps annually, it means that a great step will be taken toward the objective that we all share.
I would not for one moment suggest to this audience, or to those who may be listening on television or radio, that one meeting or two meetings at the summit brings instant peace, instant relaxation of tensions, and instant reduction or limitation of arms.
But I do know this: that these two summit meetings have brought us closer together, have brought greater understanding of our differences and greater determination to reduce those differences, and certainly, at the very least, to solve those differences without confrontation. And this, indeed, is an historic change in the relations between our two countries which the General Secretary and I are dedicated to continue.
And now, ladies and gentlemen here in the Soviet Embassy, it is my privilege to return the toast that the General Secretary has given.
On this occasion, I, in addition to asking you to drink to his health--he obviously being our host, being the ranking guest--I think it is appropriate also to drink to the health of those who have been in this city so many years, as the Ambassador, Ambassador Dobrynin, and Mrs. Dobrynin, to Foreign Minister Gromyko, who has also been in our city and knows our country so well, and so many others of our Soviet guests. You have made us feel, tonight, most welcome. And we can only say that as we drink to your health, we drink to it not simply in the casual way that one raises a glass of champagne, be it California or New York or French or, in this case, Russian champagne, but we drink to your health, having in mind what you have said and what I have tried to reaffirm: the desire of the two strongest nations in the world, through their top leaders, to work together for peace rather than for continued confrontation which could lead to destruction.
This is a goal worthy of great nations and it is a goal that we are proud, Mr. General Secretary, to work with you so that we can achieve it for the benefit of the Soviet people, of the American people, and all of the people of this world.
Now, ladies and gentlemen, since we can't repeat all those words in raising our glasses, may I suggest, to Mr. Brehnev and to Mrs. Brezhnev, who could not be here but who talked on the telephone with him today, to their children, and all of our children.
Mr. Brezhnev.
  