
    Today, the African American Mayors Association announced their support for the Bipartisan Infrastructure Framework and called on Congress to pass the framework into law.
African American Mayors Association President and of Houston, Texas Mayor Sylvester Turner touted President Biden's infrastructure plan as "hope for the future," and an opportunity to "uplift Black communities across the country."
The African American Mayors Association wrote that the time is now to invest in America's infrastructure and that, for too long, Black Americans have borne the brunt of inadequate infrastructure funding.
Read the full release below:
African American Mayors Association Applauds Bipartisan Infrastructure Proposal; Supports Quick Passage
(Washington, D.C.) — Today, Mayor Sylvester Turner (Houston, TX), president of the African American Mayors Association, issued the following statement on Washington's Bipartisan Infrastructure Framework.
"The African American Mayors Association is deeply supportive of the bipartisan infrastructure framework. For far too long, our nation has failed to provide sufficient investment in infrastructure. This lack of funding has disproportionately hurt Black Americans, who often live in communities with subpar roads, bridges, transportation, and water systems.
"President Biden's infrastructure plan offers enormous hope for the future. It would repair our crumbling infrastructure, create well-paying jobs, supercharge the economy, expand internet access, and help us create the technology to combat our climate crisis. And all the while, it would uplift Black communities across the country"
"Americans deserve infrastructure that enables us all to live fruitful, healthy lives. This plan can help provide that. Now, we're calling on Congress to get it to President Biden's desk."
The African American Mayors Association (AAMA) is the only organization exclusively representing over 500 African-American mayors across the United States. AAMA seeks to empower local leaders for the benefit of their citizens. The role of the AAMA includes taking positions on public policies that impact the vitality and sustainability of cities; providing mayors with leadership and management tools; and creating a forum for member mayors to share best practices related to municipal management.
  