
    The President today announced his intention to nominate James C. Miller III to be a member of the Federal Trade Commission. Upon confirmation, the President intends to designate Dr. Miller Chairman. Dr. Miller will continue to fulfill his duties on the Presidential Task Force on Regulatory Relief until his designation as Chairman of the FTC.
Dr. Miller is currently serving as Administrator for Information and Regulatory Affairs, Office of Management and Budget. He is also Executive Director of the Presidential Task Force on Regulatory Relief. Previously, since 1977, Dr. Miller has been a resident scholar at the American Enterprise Institute and was codirector of AEI's Center for the Study of Government Regulation. He was a member of the board of editors of AEI's journal Regulation and served on the board of editorial advisers of the AEI Economist. Dr. Miller was an elected member of the executive committee of the Southern Economic Association and also holds memberships in the American Association for the Advancement of Science, the American Economic Association, the Public Choice Society, and the Western Economic Association. In 1974-75 Dr. Miller served as a Senior Staff Economist with the Council of Economic Advisers, where he specialized in matters relating to transportation, regulation and antitrust policy. In 1975 he was appointed the Council on Wage and Price Stability's Assistant Director for Government Operations and Research. He has also served as a member of President Ford's Domestic Council Regulatory Review Group, which directed the administration's program in regulatory reform. In 1972-74 Dr. Miller was an associate professor of economics at Texas A&M University and served as a consultant to the Department of Transportation and the National Bureau of Standards. Previously, in 1972, he was research associate at the Brookings Institution and at AEI. In 1969-72 he was a senior staff economist at the Department of Transportation.
Dr. Miller graduated from the University of Georgia (B.B.A., 1964) and the University of Virginia (Ph.D., 1969). He is married, has three children, and resides in Washington, D.C. He was born June 25, 1942, in Atlanta, Ga.
  