
    President Donald J. Trump today announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key positions in his Administration:
Michael T. Harvey of Texas, to be an Assistant Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development for the Middle East Bureau.
Mr. Harvey, a career United States Agency for International Development (USAID) Foreign Service officer, currently serves as a faculty member at the National War College in Washington, DC. Previously, he led USAID's Defeat ISIS Task Force, after serving as the mission director in Nigeria, where he stood up the response to the Boko Haram insurgency. He also held USAID Mission Directorships in Israel, where he led West Bank and Gaza assistance programs, and in Serbia and Montenegro. He also served as the deputy mission director in Iraq for which he received USAID's highest recognition, the Distinguished Service Award, for his leadership during the 2006-2007 surge. Mr. Harvey graduated from the University of Texas with a B.A. in political science and a M.A. in public policy.
Alan Ray Shaffer of Virginia, to be Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment.
Mr. Shaffer served as the Director of North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) Science and Technology at the NATO Collaboration Support Office. He was also the Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering, and was the acting Assistant Secretary for three years. During his tenure as the Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering, he was responsible for the oversight of the science and technology, systems engineering, and developmental test and evaluation workforce, as well as a twenty-five billion dollar research and engineering budget. He was an officer in the United States Air Force, and is a recipient of the Distinguished Executive Presidential Rank Award, the Department of Defense Distinguished Civilian Service Medal, and the Secretary of Defense Exceptional Civilian Service Award. Mr. Shaffer is a graduate from the University of Vermont, the University of Utah, the Naval Postgraduate School, and the Industrial College of the Armed Forces.
-----
President Donald J. Trump today announced his intent to appoint the following individual to a key position in his Administration:
Gary Washington of Maryland, to be a Member of the Commodity Credit Corporation, Board of Directors.
  