
    Pool Reports by Emily Goodin, DailyMail



Sent:
Reports:




June 5, 202008:57

In-town pool report #1 - POTUS press conference at 10 am 
Good morning from the White House.
By now you have seen the president's tweet on his holding a 10 am press conference. Pooler has asked for more details and will pass on any information received.



June 5, 202009:23

In-town pool #2 - POTUS press conference at 10 am in Rose Garden 
The president will hold his 10 a.m. press conference in the Rose Garden, per updated White House daily guidance.
10:00AM       THE PRESIDENT holds a news conferenceRose Garden



June 5, 202010:27

In-town pool report #3 - waiting for press conference to start 
Reporters are in the Rose Garden waiting for the press conference to start.
Seats are about a foot apart. There is an empty row in the front for guests. There is a table set up for what appears to be some sort of signing (a pen is visible) next to the podium.
Press conference will be live streamed so pool will only send relevant color.
Temperature checks were done on all coming to press conference and the pool had a coronavirus test this morning.



June 5, 202010:31

In town pool report #4 - POTUS here 
President Trump came out at 10:30 am.



June 5, 202010:35

In town pool report #5 - POTUS to sign PPP Flexibility Act of 2020 
From the press office:
Today, President Donald J. Trump will deliver remarks on today's remarkable employment report and sign H.R. 7010 - PPP Flexibility Act of 2020 in the Rose Garden of the White House.View the Council of Economic Advisors (CEA) blog post on today's report here (https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44f...) .
Our Economy is Beginning to Rebound Earlier than Expected* The U.S. economy added 2.5 million jobs in May and the unemployment rate fell from 14.7 (x-apple-data-detectors://3) percent to 13.3 percent.+ Employment increased significantly in leisure and hospitality (1.2 million), construction (464,000), education and health services (424,000), retail trade (368,000), and manufacturing (225,000).* These job gains surprised forecasters, given many States were only beginning to reopen their economies during the reports' reference periods(the week/pay period that includes May 12).+ The median of all private-sector forecasts predicted 7.5 million job losses in May and an unemployment rate of 19.2 percent.+ The economy beating expectations by 10 million jobs (larger than the population of Michigan!) and the unemployment rate falling instead of rising show that the transition back to strong economic growth began earlier than many expected.
Laid Off Workers Remain Attached to Their Jobs* There were 15.3 million people on temporary layoff in May, in addition to an estimated 4.9 million people who had temporarily lost their jobs but were counted as employed but "not at work for other reasons."+ Including all those who were potentially on temporary layoff, 78.2 percent of unemployed persons in May were on temporary layoff—well above the 13.3 percent average over the 12 months before this March.* This provides reason to believe these temporarily laid off workers could return to their previous jobs as States continue reopening and economic activity picks up.+ These employment connections deteriorate the longer that States limit economic activity, so it is critical to continue focusing on reviving the health of America's labor force.* May's labor market flows show that there was not an elevated level of workers dropping out of the labor force directly.+ Flows from employment to not in the labor force were 4.4 million from April to May, in line with the average over the 12 months before this March (4.7 million).
Job Gains Are Poised to Grow in June* Another sign that job growth will continue is May's jump in average weekly hours, as increasing hours can be a sign that employers need to hire more workers to meet demand.+ For all private sector employees, average weekly hours increased by 0.5 to 34.7 hours—the highest level since the series began in 2006.+ For production and non-supervisory employees, this measure increased by 0.6 to 34.1 hours—the highest level in 19 years.* 73 percent of small businesses are now open—up from the pandemic-low of just 52 percent right before the April jobs report's reference periods.+ Workplace visits are up roughly 40 percent from its pandemic-low.



June 5, 202011:19

In-town poll report #6 - POTUS bill signing and off mic remarks
When POTUS sat down to sign the bill he spoke off mic.
"I'd like to sign this bill," he said when asked about race relations in the county.
He was hard to hear but defended his role on race relations. He said a "strong economy" was his answer to racism.
"Excuse me I'd like to sign this bill," he said when more questions were shouted. "You are something."
There were TV screens on each side of the Rose Garden that flipped between graphs as POTUS talked. Titles were: "May Job Gains Surpass Market Expectations by 10 Million" and "Weekly Initial Claims for Unemployment Insurance, 1/4/2020 - 5/3/2020" and "Top Five Monthly Job Gains"
It is a hot and sunny 81 degrees. At 11:06 am an aide brought Larry Kudlow a bottle of water so he could take a drink.



June 5, 202011:25

In-town pool report #7 - POTUS left 
At 11:23 am the president left and took no questions. Shouted questions included how is this a press conference with no questions and why is the White House a fortress.
At 11:20 staff brought out water bottles and offered them to reporters.



June 5, 202012:20

In-town pool report #8 - departure and no questions 
POTUS walked out of the Oval at 12:18 pm. He is walking to chopper.
Judd Deere walked out of Oval at 11:16 am and passed out a handout with a graph entitled "Top Five Monthly Job Gains"



June 5, 202012:25

In-town pool #9 - Marine One wheels up 
Marine One was wheels up at 12:24 pm.
Mark Meadows and Dan Scavino among those traveling with POTUS.
Handing off to out of town pool and here is pic of the handout from Judd



June 5, 202019:08

In-town pool #10 - departing JBA via motorcade 
President Trump's motorcade departed JBA at 7:06 pm.
Pool took vans to JBA to meet POTUS after a bad weather call was made. There is a heavy rain falling at Andrews and sky is dark and ominous. There are flashes of lightning.
We are lights and sirens back to White House.



June 5, 202019:31

In-town pool #11 - White House return 
President Trump returned to White House at 7:29 pm. Pool did not lay eyes on POTUS. It is raining hard.
Motorcade went through a heavy down pour on the journey back, moving fast down cleared streets, with no incidents. Lights and sirens on the whole way.
There were no signs of protesters on the route back.



June 5, 202019:38

In-town pool report # 12 - travel photo lid 
At 7:37 pm the White House called a travel photo lid.
Have a great weekend everyone. Stay safe and healthy.




 
Pool Reports below by Michael Collins, USA Today



Sent:
Reports:




June 5, 202012:40

Out-of-town pool report #1: JBA departure 
Marine One was wheels down at JBA at 12:33 pm.
POTUS exited the chopper four minutes later and immediately boarded AF1. He waved to the press pool but did not take questions.
We are rolling shortly for Bangor.
Side note: Travel pool was given a covid test at the White House at 9 a.m. Temperature checks were administered again at JBA.



June 5, 202014:13

Out-of-town pool report #2 
AF1 touched down at Bangor International Airport at 1:53 p.m. POTUS walked off the plane at 2:08 pm and walked into the airport hangar with his greeters. Names are below.
POTUS came back to the press cabin shortly after takeoff at JBA and talked off the record for about 10 minutes.
Pool is now heading into the airport hangar for the roundtable discussion with the representatives of the commercial fishing industry.
The roundtable event will be streamed on the White House website, but your pooler will provide relevant color.
>From the White House:
The President is met by:
Paul LePageFormer Governor of Maine
Paul CoulombeOwner of Oliver's Cozy Harbor Restaurant



June 5, 202014:30

Out-of-town pool report #3: Roundtable event 
The roundtable event began at 2:15 in an airport hangar holding several military helicopters
POTUS sat at the head of a U-shaped table, with a fishing boat as a backdrop and a blue banner that read "Transition to Greatness." Seated on each side of him were the roundtable participants.
Names and more details are below.
From the White House:
Today, President Donald J. Trump will travel to Bangor, Maine to participate in a roundtable discussion on supporting America's commercial fishermen and will sign a Proclamation Modifying the Northeast Canyons and Seamounts Marine National Monument.
On September 15, 2016, the Obama Administration designated the first and only national marine monument in the Atlantic Ocean, the Northeast Canyons and Seamounts Marine National Monument, using authority under the Antiquities Act of 1906.
This action abruptly ended commercial fishing within its boundaries, limiting economic prosperity for this crucial industry in the northeast. President Trump's proclamation will amend that restriction but will not alter the boundaries of the Northeast Canyons and Seamounts Marine National Monument.
This proclamation serves as another example of President Trump's commitment to slashing the burdensome restrictions imposed by the previous Administration to increase economic progress and protect jobs for all Americans around the country.
The following individuals are expected to attend:
The White HousePresident Donald J. TrumpPeter Navarro, Assistant to the President for Trade and Manufacturing Policy
Trump AdministrationSecretary David Bernhardt, Department of the Interior
External ParticipantsPaul LePage, Former Governor of MaineTerry Alexander, Owner, Jordan Lynn Inc.Jim Odlin, Member of Board of Directors, Blue Harvest FisheriesFrank O'Hara Jr., President, O'Hara CorporationKristan Porter,President, Maine Lobstermen's AssociationMaggie Raymond, Executive Director, Associated Fisheries of MaineMary Beth Tooley, Former Council Member, New England Fishery Management CouncilJon Williams, Owner, Atlantic Red Crab Company



June 5, 202015:14

Out-of-town pool report #4: Roundtable ends 
Roundtable discussion ended with POTUS signing the executive on commercial fishing at 3:11 pm. (See pool report #3 for info on the order.)
We are heading to the helicopters for the trip to Guilford and the swab factory tour.
More color from the event:
A couple of lobster cages and buoys were piled on the floor to in front of POTUS during the event.
POTUS and the participants did not wear face masks during the discussion. But seats were arranged to observe social distancing.
Audio was difficult to hear, but POTUS threatened to place a tariff on EU autos if the bloc does not remove tariffs on U.S. lobsters. He complained that the EU does not charge Canada a tariff on lobsters that come out of the same waters.
"This country is being treated so badly on trade," he said.
POTUS slammed Maine Gov. Janet Mills, who asked him not to make the trip to her state. "She doesn't know what she's doing," he said. "She's like a dictator."



June 5, 202015:49

Out-of-town pool report #5: Marine One arrival 
Poool was ushered into an osprey before Marine One took off from Bangor International Airport for Guilford and did not see the chopper depart.
Marine One touched down at what appeared to be a parking lot at Piscataquis Community High School at 3:36 pm.
A group of spectators — some waving Trump flags and holding Trump signs — gathered at the entrance to school to watch the arrival.
Motorcade is rolling toward Puritan Medical Products at 3:44 pm.



June 5, 202016:12

Out-of-town pool report #6: swab plant tour 
Motorcade arrived at Puritan Medical Products at 3:48 pm.
A crowd of cheering spectators lined the motorcade route. One man held up a sign that read: Go back to your bunker.
POTUS entered the factory to cheers at 3:50 pm and started his tour. Workers In white lab coats, hair nets and plastic booties worked at machines making swabs. POTUS did not wear a face mask or the other protective gear.
"Made in the USA. I've been saying it for a long time," he said.
He stopped to talk to some of the workers, but pool could not hear the discussion.
Remarks to start shortly. They will be streamed on the White House website, so pooler will provide color.



June 5, 202016:16

Out-of-Town pool report #7: Puritan remarks
POTUS took the stage at 4:09 pm to Lee Greenwood's God Bless the USA.
From Judd Deere:
Today, President Donald J. Trump will travel to Guilford, Maine where he will tour Puritan Medical Products, a worldwide manufacturer of medical swabs used for testing COVID-19. Puritan Medical Products was able to exponentially increase their production to help fight against the novel coronavirus after receiving nearly $80 million in funding through the Defense Production Act.
The following individuals are expected to attend:
The White HousePresident Donald J. Trump
Trump AdministrationSecretary David Bernhardt, Department of the InteriorSecretary Alex Azar, Department of Health and Human Services
External ParticipantsScott Wellman, Chief Financial Officer, Hardwood Products Company LLCTimothy Templet, Executive Vice President of Global Sales, Hardwood Products Company LLCDavid Perkins, Vice President of Manufacturing, Hardwood Prodcuts Company LLC



June 5, 202016:34

Out-of-town pool report #8: Color 
Some color from the event:
POTUS spoke in what appeared to be a warehouse. Cardboard boxes were stacked everywhere, including behind the stage. Containers of cotton swabs were displayed on the stage.
Many workers at the event wore white T-shirts with a green logo on the back that read: "Saving The World One Swab At A Time."
Many of the people in the audience wore face masks.



June 5, 202016:50

Out-of-town pool report #9: Plant departure 
POTUS concluded his remarks at 4:42 pm to a standing ovation. He was still on stage when pool was ushered back to the vans.
Motorcade is rolling back to the helicopter landing zone at 4:47 pm.



June 5, 202017:00

Out-of-town pool report #10: Departure for Bangor 
Motorcade arrived back at the high school helicopter landing site at 4:50 pm.
POTUS posed for photos In front of a firetruck with local firefighters. He gave a thumbs up to the pool and headed to Marine One.
Pool is back on the osprey. We are wheels up at 4:59 pm.



June 5, 202017:26

Out-of-town pool report #11 : Bangor departure 
Marine One touched down at Bangor International Airport at 5:21 pm.
POTUS stepped off the chopper three minutes later and boarded AF1 without taking questions.
We are rolling shortly for JBA.



June 5, 202017:31

Out-of-town pool report #12: Speaker names 
The White House has provided the names of the three people whom POTUS called onstage during his remarks at the swab factory:
Angelita BuschurTracy PorterDerek McKinney



June 5, 202019:08

Out-of-town pool report #13: JBA arrival 
AF1 landed at JBA at 6:53 pm under dark clouds, strong winds and a slight drizzle.that quickly turned into a downpour.
POTUS walked off the plane at 7.04 pm and got into a black SUV. He is motorcading back to the White House because of the weather.
Motorcade departed at 7:05 pm.
Handing off to the in-town pool.
Thanks to co-pooler Nikki Schwab of the Daily Mail for a much-needed assist in compiling these reports.
Have a great weekend, everybody.



June 5, 202019:10

Out-of-town pool report #14: Phone call 
>From Judd Deere:
Today, President Donald J. Trump spoke with Abu Dhabi Crown Prince and Deputy Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces of the United Arab Emirates Sheik Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan. The two leaders discussed ongoing efforts to combat the coronavirus, ways to restore the economy, and various bilateral and regional security issues.




  