
    The President has established by Executive order the President's Commission on Housing.
The Commission will advise the President and the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development with respect to options for the development of a national housing policy and the role and objectives of the government in future housing availability.
The Executive order requests the Commission to:
—Analyze the relationship of home-ownership to political, social, and economic stability within the nation;
—Review all existing Federal housing policies and programs;
—Assess those factors which contribute to the cost of housing;
—Assess the current housing finance structure and practices in the country;
—Seek to develop housing and mortgage finance options which strengthen the ability of the private sector to maximize opportunities for home-ownership and provide adequate shelter for all Americans;
—Detail program options for basic reform of federally subsidized housing.
The Commission will provide information to the President and the Secretary of HUD whenever requested, as well as an interim report not later than October 30, 1981, and a final report not later than April 30, 1982. Members will serve without compensation but will be entitled to expenses.
The President designated William F. McKenna, a Los Angeles attorney, as Chairman, and Washington, D.C., attorney Carla Anderson Hills as Vice Chairman. Mr. McKenna is an expert in housing finance. Mrs. Hills served as Secretary of the Department of Housing and Urban Development from 1975 to 1977.
The members of the Commission are:
William F. McKenna, Chairman. Mr. McKenna, a resident of Los Angeles, is a distinguished attorney and senior partner of the national law firm of McKenna, Conner & Cunco (Los Angeles, San Francisco, and Washington, D.C.). From 1948 to 1951, he served as litigation counsel for the Federal Home Loan Bank System and the Federal Savings & Loan Insurance Corporation. He was the Republican counsel to the House Committee on Expenditures in the Executive Departments, predecessor to the House Government Operations Committee, in 1951. Two years later, he served as general counsel for the House Government Operations Committee and was chief counsel to several of its subcommittees, including the Government Reorganization Subcommittee. Also in 1953, he served as chief counsel of the Joint Anti-racketeering Subcommittee of the House Government Operations and House Education and Labor Committees. In 1954 McKenna set up the Organized Crime Unit of the U.S. Department of Justice. Also in 1954, at President Eisenhower's request, McKenna served as Deputy Administrator of the U.S. Housing and Home Finance Agency, predecessor of HUD. In this role, he was asked to clean up a myriad of problems and scandals in these housing agencies with emphasis on solving problems at FHA. From 1962 to 1970, at the request of the U.S. Department of State, he advised the Government of Brazil on housing finance matters. He is a graduate of Yale University Law School (1939) and was awarded an LL.D. degree at Providence College, Providence, R.I., in 1969. He is a fellow of the American College of Trial Lawyers and is a founder of the Free Clinic for the Aged Poor (Knights of Malta) in downtown Los Angeles.
Carla Anderson Hills, Vice Chairman. Mrs. Hills, a resident of Los Angeles, Calif., is a partner in the Washington, D.C., law firm of Latham, Watkins & Hills. A graduate of Stanford University and Yale Law School, she served as Secretary of the Department of Housing and Urban Development from 1975 to 1977. She began her legal career in 1958 as an assistant U.S. attorney, Civil Division, Los Angeles. From 1962 to 1974, she was a partner in the Los Angeles law firm of Munger, Toiles, Hills & Rickershauser. She returned to government service in 1974 as Assistant Attorney General, Civil Division, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C. Since 1978 she has served as a member of the MIT-Harvard Joint Center for Urban Studies and as a director of the American Council for Capital Formation. She served as the chairman of the Reagan-Bush housing task force in 1980.
Garry E. Brown. A resident of Washington, D.C., Mr. Brown was a Michigan State senator from 1962 to 1966 and served as a Member of Congress from 1967 to 1979. While in Congress, he was the second ranking member on the House Banking, Finance and Affairs Committee (served 12 years) and the ranking member on Housing and Community Development Subcommittee. Mr. Brown also was a senior ranking member on the Government Operations Committee and ranking member on its Commerce, Consumer and Monetary Affairs Subcommittee. In addition, he was the second ranking House Member on the Joint Economic Committee and a member of three of its subcommittees. Mr. Brown is a partner and director in the Washington, D.C., law firm of Hill, Christopher, and Phillips. He is a graduate of Kalamazoo College, Mich., and received his law degree from George Washington Law School in 1954.
Edward W. Brooke. A resident of Washington, D.C., he served two terms in the U.S. Senate from the State of Massachusetts. A graduate of Howard University, he received his LL.B. and LL.M. degrees from Boston University. As a Senator, he served as the ranking Republican member of the Senate Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Committee. He also held other key committee assignments, including seats on the Armed Services Committee, the Joint Committee on Defense Production, and the Appropriations Committee. He is a partner in the Washington, D.C., law firm of O'Connor and Hannah and serves as counsel to Csaplar & Bok in Boston, a partner in Bear, Stearns & Co. in New York, and a consultant to E. F. Hutton in New York. Senator Brooke is a fellow of the American Bar Association and of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences.
Bernard J. Carl. A resident of Washington, D.C., Mr. Carl is a partner in the Washington, D.C., law firm of Williams and Connolly. Prior to joining the firm in 1977, he served as Acting Assistant Secretary for Policy Development and Research (1976-1977) and Deputy Assistant Secretary for Policy Development and Program Evaluation (1975-1976) at the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Department. He was the principal author of HUD's 1976 Presidential White Paper on the Future Role of FHA. He also was the principal author of HUD's 1976 Housing Assistance Block Grant Proposal and the 1976 Counter-Cyclical Community Development Block Grant Proposal. In addition, he was policy adviser to the October 1976 Interim Report of the President's Committee on Urban Development and Neighborhood Revitalization. He was a member of the Reagan-Bush committee housing task force in 1980 and was the HUD project program director for the Reagan transition. Carl is a graduate of Wesleyan University, Conn., and received his law degree from the University of Virginia in 1972.
Richard E. Carver. Currently the mayor of Peoria, Ill. (since 1973), Mr. Carver also is president of Carver Lumber Co. in Peoria, Ill. A graduate of Bradley University, he now serves as a director of the University's Urban Affairs Institute, the Illinois State Chamber of Commerce, and the National League of Cities. He is president of the National Conference of Republican Mayors and is immediate past president of the U.S. Conference of Mayors and is presently a member of its executive committee. Mr. Carver is also a member of the President's Advisory Commission on Intergovernmental Relations and serves on the Mayors Advisory Board of the Federal Home Loan Bank Board Community Reinvestment Program. Mr. Carver is chairman of the Illinois Department of Local Government Affairs Energy Advisory Committee. He has served as a delegate to the U.N. Center for Human Settlements in 1976.
Stuart A. Davis. A resident of Webster Groves, Mo., Mr. Davis is president of Laurene Davis, Inc., a St. Louis area realty firm. He is a graduate of Washington University, St. Louis, and was selected "Realtor of the Year" in 1980 by the Missouri Association of Realtors. A member of the executive committee of the National Association of Realtors (NAR) and a former chairman of the NAR resolutions committee (1979), Mr. Davis also was president of the Missouri Association of Realtors in 1977 and has served on its board of directors since 1968. He is a past president (1974) of the Real Estate Board of Metropolitan St. Louis, has been a director since 1968, and a member of the executive committee for 5 years. He was, for six terms, chairman of the Board's Committee on Professional Standards. Mr. Davis was the 1980-81 chairman of the board of the Better Business Bureau of Greater St. Louis.
G. Richard Dunnels. A resident of Bethesda, Md., Mr. Dunnels has been a partner in the Washington, D.C., law firm of Dunnels, Duvall, Bennett & Porter since 1977. A graduate of Dartmouth College, he took his law degree from the University of Virginia in 1967. He began his legal career with the Washington, D.C., law firm of Hogan & Hartson and 2 years later (1969) joined the Nixon administration. From 1970 to 1973, he had various assignments at the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, Washington, D.C., first, as special assistant to the Under Secretary (1970) then as Deputy Assistant Secretary for Housing and Urban Renewal (1970-1971), and as Deputy Assistant Secretary for Housing Management (1971-1973).
Richard L. Fore. A resident of Glenbrook, Nev., Mr. Fore has been a managing partner of Lincoln Property Co., Carson City, Nev., since 1977. He was vice president and general manager of the Donald L. Huber Corp., Dayton, Ohio, from 1975 to 1976. Mr. Fore was Executive Assistant to the General Manager of the New Community Development Corporation and Deputy Administrator of the New Communities Administration, U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, from 1973 to 1975, and also was administrative assistant to the Secretary of HUD during that period. A graduate of Florida State University, he received his MPA from Arizona State University in 1970. Mr. Fore was a member of Presidentelect Reagan's transition staff and was a member of the Reagan-Bush housing task force in 1980.
Lee Goodwin. A resident of Southampton, N.Y., Mrs. Goodwin has been a senior vice president for Merrill Lynch Huntoon-Page, New York City, since 1976. A graduate of Barnard College, she took graduate courses in public law at Brown University. From 1957 to 1962, she was assistant to the chairman, New York State Senate Committee on New York City Affairs, and also was assistant to the chairman of the Joint Legislation Committee on Housing, New York State Legislature. From 1962 to 1963, she was executive assistant to the State Commission on Housing and served as assistant director of the New York State Housing Financial Authority from 1962 to 1973. From 1973 to 1976, she was a member of the New York Commission on Housing.
Richard K. Helmbrecht. A resident of Okemos, Mich., Mr. Helmbrecht has served as executive director of the Michigan State Housing Development Authority since 1977. He was director of the Michigan State Department of Commerce from 1972 to 1977 and held various positions in the office of the Governor of the State of Michigan from 1962 to 1972, including responsibility for new program development, legislative affairs, and special housing assignments. In 1977 he served as chairperson of the Governor's Urban Action Group. He is a graduate of Pennsylvania State University and took an MA in political science from the University of Chicago in 1963. Mr. Helmbrecht is president of the Council of State Housing Agencies.
Peter D. Herder. A resident of Tucson, Ariz., Mr. Herder serves as president of three construction firms: Herder Construction Co., Villa Catalina Building Corp., and Herder Commercial Development Corp. He also is vice president and owner of Arizona Brick Co. A graduate of San Jose State University, he took his masters degree from the University of Southern California. He has served as three-term president of Southern Arizona Home Builders Association (1969, 1975, 1976) and was named "Inspirational Leader of the Decade" in 1977. From 1978 to 1979, he served as vice president, Area 13, of the National Association of Home Builders (Arizona, Colorado, New Mexico, Nevada, Utah, Wyoming). He also is a director of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, and was president of Tucson Economic Development Corp. from 1977 to 1979. Mr. Herder is a director of the United Bank of Arizona (Phoenix), and was a commissioner of Arizona Power Authority from 1972 to 1980. He was a director of the Tucson Airport Authority from 1979 to 1980.
Samuel C Jackson. A resident of Washington, D.C., Mr. Jackson is a member of the New York and Washington, D.C., law firm of Stroock & Stroock & Lavan. He is a graduate of Washburn University, Topeka, Kans., where he also received a law degree in 1954. From 1969 to 1973, he served at the Department of Housing and Urban Development as Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development. Prior to his appointment as Assistant Secretary of HUD, he served as vice president of the American Arbitration Association and director of its National Center for Dispute Settlement from 1968 to 1969. He was one of five U.S. Commissioners of the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission from 1965 to 1968. He has held legal positions with the NAACP at local, State, and national levels. Formerly a member of the Administrative Conference of the United States, he has lectured and written extensively in legal and urban affairs journals.
Gordon C. Luce. A resident of San Diego, Calif., Mr. Luce is chairman of the board and chief executive officer of San Diego Federal Savings and Loan Association. He is a 1950 graduate of Stanford University, where he received his M.B.A. 2 years later. Mr. Luce served as secretary of business and transportation in the cabinet of Governor Reagan from 1967 to 1969. He has twice served as a delegate to the International Building Societies IES conference in Europe. He was the founding chairman of San Diego Economic Corp. Mr. Luce is a member of the board of overseers of the Hoover Institution (Stanford University). He also serves as an adviser to the University of Southern California Center for the Study of Financial Institutions. He is a director of the Federal Home Loan Bank of San Francisco and the U.S. League of Savings Associations. He also is a former president of the California Savings and Loan League.
Maurice Mann. A resident of San Francisco, Calif., Dr. Mann is vice chairman of A.G. Becker-Warburg Paribas Becker, Inc., a major U.S. investment banking and financial services firm. A graduate of Northeastern University, Boston, with a M.A. degree at Boston University, he received his Ph.D. at Syracuse University in 1955. From 1973 to 1978, he was president and chief executive officer of the Federal Home Loan Bank of San Francisco. Earlier he was executive vice president of the Western Pennsylvania National Bank and was Assistant Director of the Office of Management and Budget in Washington, D.C., from 1969 to 1970. He currently serves as chairman of the economic advisory board of the National Savings and Loan League and is chairman of the Federal Savings and Loan Advisory Council. He also is a chairman of the policy advisory board of the Real Estate and Urban Economics Program at the University of California, Berkeley.
Preston Martin. A resident of Chicago, Ill., Mr. Martin is chairman and chief executive officer of the Seraco Group, a division of Sears Roebuck and Co. A graduate of the University of Southern California, where he also received his M.B.A., Mr. Martin received his Ph.D. in economics from Indiana University in 1952. He served as commissioner of the California Savings and Loan Department under Governor Reagan from 1967 to 1969. President Nixon named him Chairman of the Federal Home Loan Bank Board in Washington, D.C., in 1969, where he served until 1972. He is a member of the advisory board of the Joint Center of Urban Studies at MIT-Harvard University. He also is a member of the advisory committee of the Wharton School of Business. In 1977 he was a member of the Housing and Urban Development Task Force, whose mission was the "Future of FHA." In 1959 he authored the book "Principles and Practices of Real Estate" (Macmillan).
Robert V. Mathison. A resident of Hilton Head Island, S.C., Mr. Mathison is an inventor. He holds 30 U.S. patents, plus 26 patents in foreign lands. He currently is a consultant with Kimberly-Clarke and is a director of Rowe Furniture Corp., Salem, Va. From 1976 to 1980, he served as a member of the South Carolina State Housing Authority and was its vice chairman for 3 years. Previously he served as chairman of the City of Asheville Housing Authority, Asheville, N.C., from 1967 to 1970. He was vice president of Transcon Investment and Financial Limited (1971-1974), a private housing corporation. Mr. Mathison attended Carleton College, Minn., and Northwestern University, Evanston, Ill.
Martin P. Mayer. A resident of New York City, Mr. Mayer is a writer. He has authored 23 books, some of which are: "Wall Street, Men and Money" (1955), "Madison Avenue, USA" (1958), "The Schools" (1961), "The Lawyers" (1967), "About Television" (1972), "The Bankers" (1975), and "The Builders" (1978). He also has written articles on various aspects of American life in such publications as TV Guide, Cosmopolitan, Better Homes and Gardens, American Scholar, Commentary, and Musical America. Mr. Mayer is currently doing research for a book which will deal with the future of banking, growing out of a study on the subject for the 20th Century Fund. He is a graduate of Harvard College and holds honorary D. Lit(t). degrees from Lake Forest University and Adelphi University. Mr. Mayer worked as a reporter for the New York Journal of Commerce from 1947 to 1948 and was an associate editor of Esquire magazine from 1951 to 1954.
Richard F. Muth. A resident of Stanford, Calif., Dr. Muth has been a professor of economics at Stanford University since 1970. He is a graduate of Washington University, St. Louis, Mo., where he took his MA in 1950. Dr. Muth received his Ph.D. in economics at the University of Chicago in 1958. He served as a member of the President's Task Force on Urban Renewal in 1969. He was a member of the Reagan-Bush housing task force in 1980. He is the author of numerous articles and publications, some of which are: "Cities and Housing" (1969), and a monograph on "Public Housing" (1974), and "Urban Economic Problems" (1975).
Bernard H. Siegan. A resident of La Jolla, Calif., Mr. Siegan serves as distinguished professor of law and director of law and economic studies at the University of San Diego Law School. A graduate of the University of Chicago Law School, he was a practicing attorney in Chicago for 23 years before moving to Southern California. He was a research fellow in law and economics at the University of Chicago Law School from 1968 to 1969. Mr. Siegan was a member of the Reagan-Bush housing task force in 1980. He has authored and served as editor of seven books, including "Land Use Without Zoning" (1972), "Other People's Property" (1976), and "Economic Liberties and the Constitution," University of Chicago Press (1981). He also was the editor and contributor to the following books: "Planning Without Prices" (1977), "Regulation, Economics, and the Law" (1979), and "Government, Regulation and the Economy" (1980). Mr. Siegan has written numerous articles for professional journals and publications.
Kenneth J. Thygerson. A resident of Englewood, Colo., Dr. Thygerson is vice president of mortgage banking for Western Federal Savings and Loan Association, Denver, and is chairman of the board of First Capital Mortgage. A graduate of Northwestern University, Evanston, Ill., he also took a Ph.D. in economics from Northwestern in 1973. He was chief economist and director, division of economics and research, for the U.S. League of Savings Associations, Washington, D.C., from 1975 to 1981. The author of numerous books, publications, and articles on housing and housing finance, he was assistant director of human services in the office of policy coordination, Reagan transition, Washington, D.C. Dr. Thygerson is a former director of the American Real Estate and Urban Economic Association. He is currently a member of the advisory council, Credit Research Center, at Purdue University.
Charles J. Urstadt. A resident of Bronxville, N.Y., Mr. Urstadt is chairman, president, and chief executive officer of Pearce, Urstadt, Mayer & Greer, Inc., New York City, a mortgage and sales brokerage, building leasing, management, and insurance firm. A graduate of Dartmouth College where he also received an M.B.A. in 1951, Mr. Urstadt holds an LL.B. degree from Cornell University and also studied taxation at New York University Graduate Law School. From 1973 to 1978, he was chairman and chief executive officer, Battery Park City Authority, in New York. From 1967 to 1973, he was commissioner of Housing and Community Renewal, State of New York. He was chairman of the New York State Housing Finance Commission from 1969 to 1973 and served as chairman of the New York State Building Code Council from 1969 to 1973. He is former chairman of New York Construction Users Council and is a member of the advisory board of the Real Estate Institute of New York University.
  