
    Following Debate Performance, Keefe Says Harris is Best Candidate to Beat Trump
Following her "dominant" debate performance, former New Hampshire Democratic Party Chair and Democratic National Committee member Joe Keefe is endorsing Kamala Harris for president.
During the debate, Harris outlined her plans to deliver real, tangible solutions for the challenges American families face. Harris rose above the fray to focus on the issues that matter to everyday Americans and delivered a powerful story about the pain racism caused her as a child. Harris laid out her "3AM Agenda" rooted in solutions that will have a direct and immediate effect on people's lives, paychecks, and health care.
"Kamala Harris has shown time and time again that she is a uniquely talented leader who will return the White House to the American people. Her concrete, practical solutions on issues such as raising teachers' pay, ending gun violence and making the economy work for everyone address some of the most pressing challenges facing Granite State families. She also knows how to prosecute the case against bad actors and to hold them accountable. She is a fighter, and I believe the best candidate to take on Trump in 2020," said former New Hampshire Democratic Party Chair Joe Keefe. "I am proud to endorse her."
Harris's policy proposals -- her "3 a.m. agenda" -- addresses issues such as reproductive rights, gun violence, and equal pay. These plans have been widely praised by leaders throughout the Granite State.
Keefe's endorsement is the latest sign of Harris's growing grassroots presence in New Hampshire. Since announcing her campaign, Harris has traveled across the state, visiting Portsmouth, Manchester, Concord, Keene, Hanover, Nashua, and Claremont. Her campaign is also continuing to build a robust grassroots infrastructure in every corner of the state. For example, last night, volunteers and supporters hosted nine debate watch parties, including events in Manchester, Brookline, Nashua, Hanover, Moultonborough, Keene, Dover, and New Durham. Last Saturday, a large contingent of Harris volunteers and supporters marched in the Portsmouth Pride parade. Earlier in June, WMUR reported on the campaign's organizing infrastructure on nearly every major Granite State campus.
  