
    With regret at his departure but gratitude for his 32 years of service to our country, I have today accepted the resignation of Admiral William O. Studeman as Deputy Director of Central Intelligence.
Throughout an extraordinary and exemplary career, Admiral Studeman has done honor to his uniform. He rose through the ranks of the Navy, serving as a career intelligence officer, Executive Assistant to the Vice Chief of Naval Operations, Director of Long Range Planning, and ultimately, the 53d Director of Naval Intelligence.
The practical and profound expertise Admiral Studeman developed in intelligence has served him and our Nation well in two critical assignments, Director of the National Security Agency and then Deputy Director of Central Intelligence. Within the intelligence community, in Congress, and throughout the executive branch, he earned a reputation for integrity, collegiality, and competence of the highest order.
As Deputy Director of Central Intelligence, Admiral Studeman served two Presidents and three Directors of Central Intelligence. On two extended occasions, he took on the responsibilities of Acting Director. I am especially grateful for the continuity and leadership he provided to the entire intelligence community in a time of great change. Admiral Studeman helped begin the difficult but vital task of transforming the community to meet the new challenges of the post-cold-war world. He led efforts to streamline our intelligence agencies while making sure that they maintained the unique information advantage the United States must have in meeting threats to our security and prosperity. The many initiatives he took and innovations he made have set a strong foundation for the intelligence community as we move into the 21st century.
Admiral Studeman has offered to stay on the job during the coming weeks pending his successor's confirmation, an offer I have gratefully accepted. In the years to come, I know and expect that Admiral Studeman will make his voice heard as we continue to adapt the intelligence community to the demands of a new era.
Bill Studeman has dedicated his professional life to making the American people safer and more secure. Today, on behalf of all Americans, I thank him.
  