
    Pool Reports by Amy Yurkanin, Alabama Media Group 



Sent:
Reports:




June 17, 202112:29 CDT

Pool report 1 Alabama
Reporting from Birmingham, Ala., where Second Gentleman Doug Emhoff is visiting Jackson-Olin High School.
The school is hosting a vaccination clinic in partnership with Alabama Regional Medical Services (ARMS) and Birmingham City Schools.
Community leaders sat in folding chairs in front of TV cameras. Before the event, Six cheerleaders from Jackson-Olin performed in yellow shirts, black shorts and green pom-poms.
The SG arrived at 11: to a parking lot in front of the school to answer questions from local press. The SG was joined by U.S. Secretary of Veterans Affairs Denis McDonough and Dr. Cameron Webb, Senior Policy Advisor for COVID-19 Equity.
The event is part of the National Month of Action to promote COVID-19 vaccinations in Alabama, which has the nation's second lowest vaccination rate.
The event began at 11:13 p.m.
Dr. Nichole Davis Williams, principal of Jackson-Olin talked about efforts to go door-to-door to encourage vaccination.
Birmingham Mayor Randall Woodfin said "There is an opportunity right now, for all of us to get vaccinated."
"If you have not been vaccinated, now is the time."



June 17, 202112:30 CDT

Pool report 2 Alabama
The SG arrived at 11:26 a.m. to a parking lot in front of the school to answer questions from local press. The SG was joined by U.S. Secretary of Veterans Affairs Denis McDonough and Dr. Cameron Webb, Senior Policy Advisor for COVID-19 Equity.
The event is part of the National Month of Action to promote COVID-19 vaccinations in Alabama, which has the nation's second lowest vaccination rate.
Tari Williams, organizing director of Greater Birmingham Ministries, spoke.
"Vaccination is the best way to end this pandemic," Williams said.
Webb spoke next. He talked about his experiences on the hospital COVID ward in Virginia.
"It hits really hard when you see the disproportionate toll this pandemic takes," Webb said.
Webb spoke about how much safer he felt after vaccination.
"Let's go out, let's spread the word and let's use our shot of hope," Webb said.
McDonough spoke next about how we had the first day without a death in VA facilities recently.
"By vaccinating more and more of our neighbors, we are protecting the veterans who have protected us," McDonough said.
He introduced SG Doug Emhoff.



June 17, 202113:02 CDT

Pool report 3 Alabama
SG Emhoff opened with a hearty "Hello Birmingham!"
"Today, I stand before you in front of this bus to talk about something that is so urgent and so needed," Emhoff said.
"Here in Birmingham and Alabama, we have work to do," he said.
There is a variant circulating that could cause an increased number of infections, Emhoff said. He said it has nothing to do with politics. It has everything to do with communities.
As vaccination increases, more people have become comfortable going out, Emhoff said. Nationwide, about 50 percent are vaccinated, in Alabama it's lower.
"It's really the path back to normal life without fear," he said.
"It works. These vaccines work," Emhoff said.
The end of the pandemic is near, Emhoff said.
"Vaccines are safe, effective, free and available!" he said.
Vaccines are available at drug stores. There are free rides, child care, paid time off work, he said.
He thanked the volunteers at today's clinic on behalf of the administration.
He finished by acknowledging a Supreme Court decision.
"The ACA, Supreme Court, great news today,"



June 17, 202114:38 CDT

Pool report 4 Alabama
The press moved inside the auditorium at around 11:55 a.m., where the SG thanked volunteers for their work. Five vaccination stations had been set up on stage. Everyone inside the auditorium wore face masks.
"The American people appreciate what you are doing. Just keep doing it," SG said. "And at some point, take care of yourselves."
"You're here doing the most important thing now, which is getting people vaccinated," SG said.
The SG talked about how schools are working with the local community, state and federal government to encourage vaccination.
The SG told people to encourage friends and family members to get vaccinated.
"New variants are coming out and people may have let their guard down thinking we are coming out of this. Well we haven't."
"For those of you who have only had one shot, get the second. Especially with the variants."
"We need more people in here," Emhoff said. "Let's get the word out."
The SG spoke to one man who came for his vaccine.
McDonough also thanked the volunteers.
"Every dose of hope gives our veterans more protection," McDonough said.
Then the SG thanked the volunteers again before leaving at 12:08 p.m.




  