
    Pool Reports by Devyani Chhetri, Greenville News 



Sent:
Reports:




June 14, 202111:46

VPOTUS Greenville pool report #1 
It's a hot 84 degrees at the Greenville-Spartanburg international airport. The Vice President landed at 11:16AM. "It's good to be back in South Carolina," the VP said while waving at the press pool. There was no one to greet the VP.
We're on our way to the vaccine mobilization event at Phillis Wheatley Community Center.



June 14, 202113:15

Press pool report #2 
More background: Greenville is the first stop in the VP's national vaccination tour. The tour is aimed to accelerate rates to reach the goal of vaccinating 70% US adults by July 4th.
The Phillis Wheatley Community Center, the first stop, where Harris will talk about encouraging more folks in South Carolina towards the vaccine, is named after the first African American author of a published book of poetry.
While rolling into the center:
Just outside the center, there were protestors with signs that "border is that way" and "Trump won" and fewer, quieter counter protestors from the democratic side cheering the motorcade on. Some also held up signs with no masks signs made.
Inside the hall:
There are over 150 NAACP volunteers and local democratic leaders who have been canvassing communities in South Carolina to encourage more people to get vaccinated.
First to speak in the event was NAACP State Conference President Brenda Murphy who thanked the VP for visiting South Carolina. "We are privileged as members of this state to have her here with us today. So whenever I get a chance to say I will say to her personally. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you."
Next in line was Reverend J.M. Flemming, NAACP Greenville President:
Next came Dr. Linda Bell, SC state epidemiologist, who has in several points told reporters that it's a problem of "choice" in South Carolina, where more and more residents are fearful of the vaccines because of misinformation. She urged everyone to step out and track the Department of Health and Environmental Control website (state agency) and the CDC.
Introducing the VP was Robert Morris, SC NAACP youth and college President.
The VP came on stage to a lot of applauses and cheers. Folks in yellow shirts that said "Justice for all" waved at her. The VP thanked Morris, Greenville Mayor Knox White and US Congressman Jim Clyburn.
Vaccination gives protection, she said. "This act in a way is a projection of love thy neighbor."
In a civil society, Americans look out for Americans, she said. The organizing and canvassing in the event of vaccine hesitancy is in many ways helped bring communities who want to protect their families together. "So to those who aren't vaccinated, thank you"
She ran over issues of access. Childcare and transportation are big barriers in accessing the vaccine. Countering misinformation was required to dispel fears of the vaccine.
These vaccines are built over a decade of research, she said. "I know it seems like it happened overnight."
She urged people to go out and take the vaccine, even if they feared the after effects (sore arms, fever) after they get the shot. What would people trade—- "feeling a little under the weather or saving someone's life"
Now we're on our way to the YMCA vaccination site.



June 14, 202114:00

Press pool report #3 
More protestors hollering "go to Texas" or "borders" and signs that said "Trump is still out Prez" on our way to the YMCA vaccination site.
Inside:
There are vaccine stations set up with "Walgreens" written on it. More incoming.



June 14, 202114:41

VPOTUS Pool report #4 
Walgreens CEO Rosalind Brewer and tour guide, Niki Pappos-Elledge took the VP through the 5 vaccination stations. The set-up is in basketball court with an attendance of somewhere around 50 people.
It was hard to hear what she was saying to the volunteers working at the first vaccine station but she spoke to the ones on the first station for a good 2 minutes.
A student sat (not Kaitlyn Ward---need to confirm) on station, waiting for her shot. She spoke about how she's usually nervous about getting shots. VP asked if members of her family were vaccinated. Could hear that she said her mother was.
The VP conversed with her till she got her shot. As soon as she did, the VP exclaimed "You got it!" and clapped.
VP, in her speech, used the "love thy neighbor" analogy again. "You're doing this for people who may never meet," she said­­— in what is an "extension of love thy neighbor".
She spoke about barriers to access and said that she was here on behalf of President Biden and that their administration has made efforts to providing people with free childcare so that people can get their vaccines. She also spoke of childcare after parents get vaccines and need some time off. Speaking of time offs, VP said that the Biden administration has encouraged employers to give free paid leaves to their employees to reduce access based issues.
Targeting the transportation related barrier she said that companies like Ubers and Lyfts were running schemes that gave free rides to help people travel to vaccine centers. (She had mentioned this in her community center speech as well.)
She said that she was here in Greenville to talk to people "over the fence" and remind them that this was about saving lives.
She thanked Walgreens. "You have been great partners to us".



June 14, 202116:14

VPOTUS Press pool report #5
Just a clarification about the name of the student who the VP was speaking while she was got getting her shot: Lawanda Curry.



June 14, 202116:16

VPOTUS pool report #6 
Apologies for the many typos in previous reports. We're heading back to the airport now and the hot bright 84 degrees sun has turned into raging rain.
Departure:
The VP spoke to the advance team and turned to press pool. She reiterated the issues/barriers faced in vaccination.
She narrated a conversation she had at the YMCA vaccination center:
VP: "what prompted you to get the vaccine now?"
The woman answered and said that she wanted to wait six months to see how this was all going to play out. whether the vaccines world and
VP to pool: "Well, we're at six months now".
There was meeting on voting rights closed to the press. But she told the pool that protecting voting rights for free and fair elections were important for the right kind of information to go out. "There are efforts to weaken" voting rights.
She mentioned that President Biden was at the G7 conference and Europe representing America as a democracy, setting an example of sorts of conducting free and fair elections.
"It's not a republic or democrat issue, it's an American issue".
She stepped away after that and AF2 departed at at 3:49PM.




  