
    "Four years after promising Tampa he would create new jobs and repair the housing crisis, President Obama has delivered the exact opposite. His failed economic policies have left millions of Americans still struggling to find work and pay their mortgages. It's clear President Obama just hasn't lived up to his own promises. On Day One, Mitt Romney will take action to help the millions of Americans left behind in the Obama economy." –Amanda Henneberg, Romney Campaign Spokesperson
Today, President Obama Will Participate In A Campaign Rally In Tampa, Florida:
President Obama Will Attend A Campaign Rally Today In Tampa, Florida. "Before President Barack Obama arrives in Tampa today to rally as many as 3,000 people, he will make his case to Hispanic leaders in Orlando. ... The president will address the group at midday and then fly to Tampa for a campaign rally at about 4:15 p.m. at Hillsborough Community College's Dale Mabry campus. No more tickets are available for that event." (Adam C. Smith, "Before Rally In Tampa On Friday, President Barack Obama Will Address Hispanic Leaders," Tampa Bay Times, 6/22/12)
But President Obama Still Hasn't Delivered On His Last Campaign's Promises To Tampa – Millions Of Americans Are Still Struggling In The Obama Economy:
Candidate Obama, In Tampa In 2008: "This Campaign Has To Be About The Problems Facing The American People ... [Businesses] Can't Buy New Equipment, Or Hire New Workers..." OBAMA: "Now, more than ever, this campaign has to be about the problems facing the American people - because this is a moment of great uncertainty for America. The economic crisis we face is the worst since the Great Depression. Businesses large and small are finding it impossible to get loans, which means they can't buy new equipment, or hire new workers, or even make payroll for the workers they have." (President Barack Obama, Remarks, Tampa, FL, 10/20/08)


    "The Sluggish Job Market Is Weighing On The U.S. Economy Three Years After The Great Recession Ended. And The Signs Suggest Hiring May Not Strengthen Any Time Soon." (Christopher Rugaber, "Weak US Job Market Weighing On Broader Economy," The Associated Press, 6/21/12)
  



    The Philadelphia Federal Reserve Bank Reported That "Manufacturing Activity Fell Sharply" To The "Lowest Level In Nearly A Year." "The Philadelphia Federal Reserve Bank said its index of regional manufacturing activity fell sharply to -16.6 from -5.8. That's the lowest level in nearly a year. A reading below zero indicates contraction. Measures of new orders and shipments also plummeted." (Christopher Rugaber, "Weak US Job Market Weighing On Broader Economy," The Associated Press, 6/21/12)
  

Candidate Obama, In Tampa In 2008: "These Are The Steps That We Must Take - Right Now - To Start Getting Our Economy Back On Track." OBAMA: "These are the steps that we must take - right now - to start getting our economy back on track. But we also need a new set of priorities to grow our economy and create jobs over the long-term." (President Barack Obama, Remarks, Tampa, FL, 10/20/08)


    "More Americans Than Forecast Filed Applications For Unemployment Benefits Last Week, Indicating The Labor Market Continues To Struggle." "More Americans than forecast filed applications for unemployment benefits last week, indicating the labor market continues to struggle. ... The four-week average, a less volatile measure, climbed to the highest of the year." (Shobhana Chandra, "More Americans Than Forecast File for Jobless Benefits," Bloomberg, 6/21/12)
  



    New Unemployment Claims "Raise Concern The Slowdown In Payrolls" Will Be Prolonged In The Months Ahead. "The level of dismissals may raise concern the slowdown in payrolls reported in the past few months will be prolonged, limiting consumer spending. Federal Reserve policy makers yesterday expanded a program to replace short-term bonds with longer-term debt in a bid to spur growth and trim a jobless rate that's exceeded 8 percent for 40 consecutive months." (Shobhana Chandra, "More Americans Than Forecast File for Jobless Benefits," Bloomberg, 6/21/12)
  

Candidate Obama, In Tampa In 2008: "It's Getting Harder And Harder To Make The Mortgage..." OBAMA: "It's getting harder and harder to make the mortgage, or fill up your gas tank, or even keep the electricity on at the end of the month. At this rate, the question isn't just 'are you better off than you were four years ago?', it's 'are you better off than you were four weeks ago?'" (President Barack Obama, Remarks, Tampa, FL, 10/20/08)


    Nearly 16 Million Homeowners Are Underwater On Their Mortgages. "Despite rising home prices, more than 30% of borrowers, or close to 16 million homeowners, were underwater on their mortgage during the first quarter, according to Zillow. The percentage of borrowers who owed more on their home than it was worth increased to 31.4% during the quarter, up slightly from 31.1% three months earlier, according to Zillow." (Les Christie, "More Than 30% Of Mortgage Borrowers Still Underwater," CNN Money, 5/24/12)
  



    "The National Association Of Realtors Said On Thursday That Existing Home Sales Slipped 1.5 Percent To An Annual Rate Of 4.55 Million Units Last Month." (Jason Lange, "Existing Home Sales Fall 1.5 Percent In May," Reuters, 6/21/12)
  

Candidate Obama, In Tampa In 2008: "The Only Thing That Will Change Under My [Health Care] Plan Is That We Will Lower Premiums." "If you have health insurance, the only thing that will change under my plan is that we will lower premiums. If you don't have health insurance, you'll be able to get the same kind of health insurance that Members of Congress get for themselves. And we'll invest in preventative care and new technology to finally lower the cost of health care for families, businesses, and the entire economy. That's the change we need." (President Barack Obama, Remarks, Tampa, FL, 10/20/08)


    Obamacare Has Made Health Care "Less Affordable" And Has Caused "Insurance Premiums To Rise." "At the moment, the new law is making health care slightly less affordable. Independent health care experts say the law has caused some insurance premiums to rise. As we wrote in October, the new law has caused about a 1 percent to 3 percent increase in health insurance premiums for employer-sponsored family plans because of requirements for increased benefits. Last year's premium increases cast even more doubt on another promise the president has made - that the health care law would 'lower premiums by up to $2,500 for a typical family per year.'" (D'Angelo Gore, "Promises, Promises," FactCheck.org, 1/4/12)
  



    According To The Nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office, Obamacare Could Cause As Many As 20 Million Americans To Lose Their Employer-Provided Coverage. "A Congressional Budget Office report issued this week says that 3 million to 5 million people could move from employer-based health care plans to government-based programs as the Affordable Care Act takes effect. And in the worst-case scenario, it could be as many as 20 million." (David Nather, "Health Care Reform: 4 Inconvenient Truths," Politico, 3/16/12)
  

  