
    Memorandum for the Secretary of Transportation
Subject:  Determination Under the Interstate Commerce Commission Termination Act of 1995
Section 6 of the Bus Regulatory Reform Act of 1982 imposed a moratorium on the issuance of certificates or permits to motor carriers domiciled in, or owned or controlled by, persons of a contiguous foreign country, and authorized the President to modify the moratorium. The Interstate Commerce Commission Termination Act of 1995 (ICCTA) maintained these restrictions, subject to modifications made prior to the enactment of the ICCTA, and authorized the President to make further modifications to the moratorium. The relevant provisions of the ICCTA are codified at 49 U.S.C. 13902.
The North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) established a schedule for liberalizing certain restrictions on investment in truck and bus services. Pursuant to 49 U.S.C. 13902(c)(3), I have determined that the following modifications to the moratorium are consistent with obligations of the United States under NAFTA and with U.S. transportation policy, and that the moratorium shall be modified accordingly. First, enterprises domiciled in the United States that are owned or controlled by persons of Mexico will be allowed to obtain operating authority to provide truck services for the transportation of international cargo between points in the United States. Second, enterprises domiciled in the United States that are owned or controlled by persons of Mexico will be allowed to obtain operating authority to provide bus services between points in the United States. These modifications shall be effective today.
Pursuant to 49 U.S.C. 13902(c)(5), I have determined that expeditious action is required to implement these modifications to the moratorium. Effective today, the Department of Transportation will accept and expeditiously process applications, submitted by enterprises domiciled in the United States that are owned or controlled by persons of Mexico, to obtain operating authority to provide truck services for the transportation of international cargo between points in the United States or to provide bus services between points in the United States.
Motor carriers domiciled in the United States that are owned or controlled by persons of Mexico will be subject to the same Federal and State regulations and procedures that apply to all other U.S. carriers. These include safety regulations, such as drug and alcohol testing; insurance requirements; taxes and fees; and all other applicable laws and regulations, including those administered by the U.S. Customs Service, the Immigration and Naturalization Service, and the Department of Labor.
This memorandum shall be published in the Federal Register.
George W. Bush
  