
    Today, President Donald J. Trump announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key positions in his Administration:
Christopher P. Vincze, of Massachusetts, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the International Development Finance Corporation for a term of three years.
Christopher P. Vincze currently serves as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of TRC Companies, Inc., a leading consulting, engineering, technology, and construction management firm headquartered in Lowell, Massachusetts. He was formerly a Director with the Overseas Private Investment Corporation and is currently a National Council Member with the American Enterprise Institute.
Mr. Vincze holds positions on the Board of Directors for Wellforce, MassDevelopment, and the New England Council. He has a Master in Public Health degree from Boston University School of Medicine and is a Doctoral Candidate at the same institution.
Irving W. Bailey II, of Florida, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the International Development Finance Corporation for a term of three years.
Irving W. Bailey II is a Senior Advisor at Chrysalis Ventures and also serves as Trustee of Save the Children, Inc.
Previously, Mr. Bailey served as Chairman and CEO of Providian Corporation, a diversified financial services company. After Providian was acquired by AEGON, NV in 1998, Mr. Bailey served as its Vice Chairman.
Mr. Bailey earned his BA from the University of Colorado and his MBA from the Stern School at New York University.
Deven Parekh, of New York, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the International Development Finance Corporation for a term of three years.
Deven Parekh is a Managing Director at software investment firm Insight Partners.
Mr. Parekh previously served on the Overseas Private Investment Corporation Board from 2016-2018 and was a Member of the Advisory Board of the United States Export-Import Bank from 2010-2012.
Mr. Parekh received his BS in Economics from the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania.
  