
    WASHINGTON, DC – Today, President Barack Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key Administration posts:
•      Camila A. Alire – Member, National Council on the Humanities
•      Ramon Saldívar– Member, National Council on the Humanities
President Obama said, "I am confident that these outstanding individuals will greatly serve the American people in their new roles and I look forward to working with them in the months and years to come."
President Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key Administration posts:
Dr. Camila A. Alire, Nominee for Member, National Council on the Humanities
Dr. Camila A. Alire is Dean Emerita at both the University of New Mexico and Colorado State University. She is also professor of practice in the Managerial Leadership Ph.D. program within Simmons College's School of Library and Information Science since 2007 and as an adjunct professor at the University of Denver since 2011. From 2009 to 2010, Dr. Alire served as President of the American Library Association. Earlier in her career, she served as Dean of the University of New Mexico's libraries from 2002 to 2006 and as Dean of Colorado State University's libraries from 1997 to 2001. She has co-written a number of books, including Academic Librarianship, Serving Latino Communities, and Academic Librarians as Emotionally Intelligent Leaders. Dr. Alire served as Chair of the Colorado Humanities Board of Directors from 1999 to 2000. She received a B.A. from Adams State College, an M.L.S. from the University of Denver, and an Ed.D. in Educational Leadership from the University of Northern Colorado.
Dr. Ramon Saldívar, Nominee for Member, National Council on the Humanities
Dr. Ramon Saldívar is the Hoagland Family Chair in the School of Humanities and Sciences and the Milligan Family Fellow in Undergraduate Studies at Stanford University. Dr. Saldívar's research focuses on Chicano and Chicana studies, literary theory and post-colonial literature. His publications include Figural Language in the Novel: The Flowers of Speech from Cervantes to Joyce, Chicano Narrative: The Dialectics of Difference and The Borderlands of Culture: Américo Paredes and the Transnational Imaginary. He served on the Editorial Board of American Literature and Modern Fiction Studies from 2003 to 2007, on the Board of Governors of the University of California Humanities Research Institute from 1994 to 1997, and on the National Council of the American Studies Association from 1993 to 1995. Dr. Saldívar received the 2011 National Humanities Medal. He earned his B.A from the University of Texas, Austin and his Ph.D. from Yale University.
  