
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
June 9
The White House announced that the President forwarded to the Congress a package of FY 1998 budget amendments.
June 10
In the morning, the President met with House Minority Leader Richard A. Gephardt in the Oval Office. In the afternoon, he met with Democratic members of the Senate Finance Committee in the Cabinet Room. In the evening, the President met with representatives of civil rights organizations in the Yellow Oval Room.
The President announced his intention to nominate George A. Omas as a Commissioner on the Postal Rate Commission.
June 11
In the morning, the President met with Amir Hamad bin Khalifa Al Thani of Qatar to discuss the Qatar-U.S. bilateral relationship and its commitment to maintaining peace in the Persian Gulf region.
The President announced his intention to nominate Jane Garvey as Administrator and George Donohue as Deputy Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration.
The President announced his intention to nominate Bill Lann Lee to serve as Assistant Attorney General for the Civil Rights Division at the Department of Justice.
The President announced his intention to nominate Raymond C. Fisher to serve as Associate Attorney General at the Department of Justice.
The President announced that Richard Garwin, Mortimer Elkind, and H. Rodney Withers are winners of the Enrico Fermi Award for a lifetime of achievement in the field of nuclear energy.
June 12
The President announced his intention to appoint Linda Chavez-Thompson, Suzan D. Johnson Cook, John Hope Franklin, Thomas H. Kean, Angela E. Oh, Robert Thomas, and William F. Winter to serve as members of the President's Advisory Board on Race. In addition, the President asked Christopher Edley to serve as a consultant to the advisory board and the President.
The President announced the nomination of Timberlake Foster to be Ambassador to Mauritania.
The President announced the nomination of Ralph Frank to be Ambassador to Nepal.
The President announced the nomination of John C. Holzman to be Ambassador to Bangladesh.
The President announced the nomination of Nancy J. Powell to be Ambassador to Uganda.
The President announced the nomination of Amelia Ellen Shippy to be Ambassador to Malawi.
June 13
In the afternoon, the President met with members of the President's Advisory Board on Race in the Oval Office.
In the evening, the President traveled to San Diego, CA.
The White House announced that the President will meet with Crown Prince el Hassan bin Talel of Jordan on June 17 at the White House to discuss developments in the Middle East and U.S.-Jordanian economic cooperation.
  