
    The following listing includes the President's daily schedule and other items of general interest as announced by the White House Press Office during the period covered by this issue. Events and announcements printed elsewhere in the issue are not included.
June 17
The President had breakfast with Brig. Gen. Omar Torrijos Herrera, Chief of the Government and Commander of the National Guard of Panama, at the El Panama Hotel, prior to the second multilateral discussion with other Latin American and Caribbean leaders.
Following the departure ceremony at Tocumen International Airport, which was attended by General Torrijos and President Lakas of Panama, the President left Panama and returned to the White House.
June 18
The President and Mrs. Carter hosted a buffet supper and jazz festival, featuring 40 American jazz artists, on the South Lawn of the White House. The event was in honor of the 25th anniversary of the Newport jazz Festival.
June 19
The President met at the White House with:
—Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs;
—the Cabinet;
—Vice President Walter F. Mondale.
At the invitation of the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, Walter Scheel, the President and Mrs. Carter will make a state visit to the Federal Republic of Germany on July 14-15. While in Germany, they also intend to visit Berlin.
The President has designated Joseph O. Parker and William R. Alberger as Chairman and Vice Chairman, respectively, of the United States International Trade Commission, for terms expiring June 16, 1980.
June 20
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Representatives Lester L. Wolff of New York and Glenn English of Oklahoma;
—members of the National Council of Churches Full Employment Mobilization Group;
—Hamilton Jordon, Assistant to the President, Robert R. Bowie, Deputy Director, National Intelligence, Central Intelligence Agency, and Dr. Brzezinski;
—Jay Solomon, Administrator of the General Services Administration;
—James T. Mcintyre, Jr., Director of the Office of Management and Budget.
The President participated in a foreign policy briefing for Members of Congress at the White House. Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance, Secretary of Defense Harold Brown, and Dr. Brzezinski also participated in the discussions.
June 21
The President met at the White House with:
—David L. Aaron, Deputy Assistant for National Security Affairs;
—Danny C. Tate and William H. Cable, Deputy Assistants for Congressional Liaison;
—the Democratic congressional leadership;
—Mrs. Carter, for lunch;
—business and trade association representatives, who were meeting to discuss civil service reform.
June 22
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—a group of Senators and Representatives, to discuss the Bonn summit meeting;
—Senator Russell B. Long of Louisiana and several other Members of Congress, and a group of administration officials, to discuss sugar imports and prices;
—Sayed Marei, Speaker of the People's Assembly of Egypt;
—representatives of the Greek American community.
The President transmitted to the Congress the annual report of the National Institute of Building Sciences.
June 23
The President met at the White House with:
—Vice President Mondale, Secretary Vance, Dr. Brzezinski, and Mr. Jordan;
—Frank B. Moore, Assistant to the President for Congressional Liaison.
The President departed the White House for a trip to Texas.
  