
    THE VICE PRESIDENT: Well, thank you so much. How about another round of applause for Secretary Rick Perry who is doing such a tremendous job here at the Department of Energy? (Applause.)
To Secretary Perry, to Secretary Ryan Zinke, to Administrator Scott Pruitt, Chairman Lisa Murkowski, Chairman Lamar Alexander, Chairman Greg Walden, Chairman Mike Simpson, all the distinguished members of Congress and honored guests who are here, welcome to a new era of American energy, a new era in American energy dominance. And welcome to an era defined by the pro-energy leadership of President Donald Trump. (Applause.)
We're gathered here today as further evidence that President Trump knows that affordable, abundant, and reliable energy is the foundation of American prosperity. In fact, since day one of this administration, President Trump has taken decisive action to unleash the unlimited potential of America's energy resources, and we're just getting started.
In one of his very first acts in office, President Trump approved the Keystone and Dakota pipelines. And the Dakota pipeline is up and running, and Keystone isn't far behind. (Applause.)
And under the leadership of this President, coal mines are actually reopening in America, coal miners are going back to work, and the war on coal is over. (Applause.)
President Trump has been rolling back the Clean Power Plan, he's opening the way for more offshore drilling, and President Donald Trump sent a message to the world that we're going to put American energy and American jobs first when he withdrew the United States of America from the Paris Climate Accord. (Applause.)
President Trump knows that America needs all our nation's energy resources to power our homes, power our economy, and really to power our future. And his actions in this Energy Week demonstrate this President's commitment to putting American jobs, American families, and American energy first
So with gratitude for his leadership unleashing America energy, it is now my high honor and distinct privilege to introduce to you the President of the United States of America, President Donald Trump. (Applause.)
  