
    "It's a new day under President Trump. We are free to make money again. We are free to practice capitalism without guilt. The sun is out. The skies are blue. There's a job in every pot. The Trump Miracle lives."
The Trump Miracle
By Wane Allyn Root
Townhall
June 5, 2018
It's time for a victory lap. As the great Mohammed Ali said, "It ain't bragging if you can back it up."
Since literally the day Donald J. Trump declared his candidacy for President (almost three years ago), I've predicted that he would turnaround the miserable Obama economy and produce the biggest economic boom since Ronald Reagan.
I even gave this Trump economic turnaround a catchy name: "The Trump Miracle."
I've compared Trump to Ronald Reagan hundreds of times in print and thousands of times on my national radio and TV shows. Well don't look now, but Trump is our generation's Reagan.
Actually, Trump may actually be better than Reagan.
Reagan produced millions of good-paying middle class jobs, unprecedented prosperity and the greatest economic expansion in world history. Trump is on track to surpass Reagan's economic success.
Let's start with the May jobs report. US job growth sharply accelerated. Nonfarm payrolls increased by 223,000, smashing expectations by 33,000 jobs.
Manufacturing gained 18,000 jobs. Construction gained 25,000 jobs. Mining gained almost 6000 jobs.
The jobless rate is now 3.8%, the lowest since November of 1969. Yes, I said 1969.
Wages are up 2.7% for the year. Happy Days are here again. A wage increase of any size was just a rumor in eight years under Obama.
But wait. I haven't gotten to the really good news yet!
The number of full-time jobs rose by 904,000 for the month of May. That's the biggest monthly increase this century.
...
Everything has changed under Trump. The world of money has opened up. Everyone is buying again. Everyone is writing checks again. I'm the living proof. I'm raising money for business deals- and groups are banging down my doors to invest. Investors are begging me to take their checks. That never happened in eight long years under Obama. Coincidence?
It's a new day under President Trump. We are free to make money again. We are free to practice capitalism without guilt. The sun is out. The skies are blue. There's a job in every pot. The Trump Miracle lives.
President Donald J. Trump should be the runaway winner of the 2018 Nobel Economic Prize.
I told you so.
Read the full column here.
  