
    June 5, 2007
President George W. Bush yesterday nominated four individuals and appointed one individual to serve in his Administration:
The President nominated Douglas A. Brook, of California, to be Assistant Secretary of the Navy (Financial Management). Dr. Brook currently serves as Professor of Public Policy and Director of the Center for Defense Management Reform in the School of Business and Public Policy at the Naval Postgraduate School. Prior to this, he served as Dean of the School of Business and Public Policy at the Naval Postgraduate School. Earlier in his career, he served as Acting Director of the U.S. Office of Personnel Management and Assistant Secretary of the Army (Financial Management). Dr. Brook received his bachelor's and master's degrees from the University of Michigan, and his PhD from George Mason University.
The President nominated Mark Green, of Wisconsin, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the United Republic of Tanzania. Mr. Green currently serves as an Attorney at Law at Godfrey & Kahn, S.C. Prior to this, he served as a Member of the United States House of Representatives. Earlier in his career, he served as a member of the Wisconsin State Assembly. Mr. Green received his bachelor's degree and JD from the University of Wisconsin.
The President nominated David W. Hagy, of Texas, to be Director of the National Institute of Justice at the Department of Justice. Dr. Hagy currently serves as Deputy Assistant Attorney General in the Office of Justice Programs and Principal Deputy Director of the National Institute of Justice at the Department of Justice. Prior to this, he served as Director for Local Coordination in the Office of State and Local Government Coordination and Preparedness at the Department of Homeland Security. Earlier in his career, he served as Chief of Staff and Policy Director for Harris County Judge Robert Eckels in Texas. Dr. Hagy received his bachelor's degree from Texas A&M University, and his master's degree and PhD from Tulane University.
The President nominated Wanda L. Nesbitt, of Pennsylvania, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Cote d'Ivoire. Ms. Nesbitt, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, currently serves as Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Bureau of Consular Affairs at the Department of State. Prior to this, she served as Director of the Senior Level Division in the Office of Career Development and Assignments at the Department of State. Earlier in her career, she served as United States Ambassador to the Republic of Madagascar. Ms. Nesbitt received her bachelor's degree from the University of Pennsylvania and her master's degree from the National Defense University.
The President appointed Kenneth B. Mehlman, of Maryland, to be a Member of the United States Holocaust Memorial Council, for a five-year term expiring 01/15/12.
  