
    Pool Reports by Rebecca Morin, USA Today 



Sent:
Reports:




June 23, 202207:58

In-town pool report #1 -- Checking in/gathering
Good morning,
I'm your print pooler on this cloudy day. Reach out with any questions. First gather for POTUS event with wounded warriors, their caregivers and families is at 8 a.m. at the Palm Room doors. Final gather for the event is 8:30 a.m.
Here is today's schedule:
EDT
8:00 AM In-Town Pool Call Time
9:00 AM THE PRESIDENT and THE FIRST LADY welcome wounded warriors, their caregivers and families to the White House as part of the annual Soldier Ride to recognize the service, sacrifice, and recovery journey for wounded, ill, and injured service members and veterans; THE VICE PRESIDENT and THE SECOND GENTLEMAN attendSouth LawnOpen Press [Final Gather 8:30 AM – Palm Room Doors]
10:30 AM THE PRESIDENT receives the President's Daily BriefClosed Press
Briefing Schedule
3:10 PM Press Briefing by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre
2:15 PM Press Briefing by White House COVID-19 Response Team and public health officials



June 23, 202208:30

In-town pool report #2 -- Final gather
Final gather at 8:30 am for POTUS event with wounded warriors and families at Palm Room doors.



June 23, 202208:35

In-town pool report #2a — final gather time update
The final gather for this morning's event is at 8:45 am.



June 23, 202208:54

In-town pool report #3 -- South Lawn
We're gathered on the South Lawn now. It's drizzling and many attendees have umbrellas pulled up.
Some of the people who are participating in the annual Soldier Ride have gathered with their bikes.
A reminder that POTUS remarks will be streamed at the White House site: https://www.whitehouse.gov/live/



June 23, 202208:57

In-town pool report #4 — POTUS enters
President Biden entered the event at 8:53 with First Lady Jill Biden, VP Harris, and Second Gentlemen Doug Emhoff.
First Lady Jill Biden kicked off remarks.



June 23, 202208:59

In-town pool report #5 — attendees/speaking schedule
From the White House:
Joining the President and the First Lady for the Wounded Warrior Project Soldier Ride on the South Lawn:
The Vice PresidentThe Second GentlemanSoldier Riders
Guests from the Wounded Warrior Project, officials from the Department of Defense, representatives from Veteran Service Organizations, caregivers, and White House staff
Speaking program:
The First LadyRetired Corporal Danielle GreenThe President



June 23, 202209:04

In-town pool report #6 - POTUS remarks begin
POTUS began speaking at 9:01 am.
POTUS remarks streaming here: https://www.whitehouse.gov/live/



June 23, 202209:12

In-town pool report #7 - Biden remarks end
Biden's remarks ended at 9:06 am.
The president blew an air horn at 9:07, signaling to those participating in the annual Soldier Ride proceeded to do laps around the South Lawn.



June 23, 202209:33

In-town pool report #8 - Event ended
The riders for the annual Soldier Ride completed two laps around the South Lawn.
Biden praised the wounded warriors and veterans after completing laps, saying they are the spine and back none of the country.
Biden greeted attendees who were seated and those who participated in the ride.
POTUS exited at the South Portico door at 9:32.



June 23, 202211:08

In-town pool report 9 - Lunch lid/schedule update
There is a lunch lid until 2:30 p.m.
There's also a couple of updates to the schedule: Biden at 3:15 pm is dropping by a meeting with governors, labor leaders, and private companies launching the Federal-State Offshore Wind Implementation Partnership in the Roosevelt Room. There will be a pool spray.
NSC Coordinator for Strategic Communications John Kirby will be joining Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre at the press briefing, which will begin immediately after Biden's meeting drop by.
Here's the update from the White House:
At 3:15 PM, the President will drop by a meeting with governors, labor leaders, and private companies launching the Federal-State Offshore Wind Implementation Partnership in the Roosevelt Room. The new partnership focuses on boosting the offshore wind industry to grow American-made clean energy, create good-paying jobs, and lower energy costs for families. This drop by will have an in-house pool spray. The press briefing will begin immediately following the President's drop by.
Here is a link to the fact sheet released by the White House on the partnership: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/06/23/fact-sheet-biden-administration-launches-new-federal-state-offshore-wind-partnership-to-grow-american-made-clean-energy/



June 23, 202215:11

In-town pool report #10 - gathering for pool spray
The in-town pool is gathering for the pool spray of Biden drop by of Federal-State Offshore Wind Implementation Partnership meeting in the Roosevelt Room.



June 23, 202215:31

In-town pool report #11 - Biden stop by meeting
Pool walked into the Roosevelt Room at 3:24 p.m.
Biden, seated at the head of the table, said union workers are the "single most qualified workers in the world."
"When I think climate and when I think environment, I think jobs," Biden said.
Biden said he didn't think a meeting like this would have happened four yours ago, saying that so much has changed between business, labor and government.
"We're about to build a better America," Biden said.
From the White House:
Participating in the President's meeting on Offshore Wind:
Senior Administration Officials:

Deb Haaland, Secretary of the Interior
Jennifer Granholm, Secretary of Energy
Gina McCarthy, Assistant to the President & National Climate Advisor
Ali Zaidi, Deputy Assistant to the President & Deputy National Climate Advisor
Polly Trottenberg, Deputy Secretary of Transportation
Julie Rodriguez, Deputy Assistant to the President & Director of White House Office of Intergovernmental Affairs
David Hayes, Special Assistant to the President for Climate Policy
Rick Spinrad, Administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
Amanda Lefton, Director of the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management

Elected Officials:

John Carney, Governor of Delaware
Phil Murphy, Governor of New Jersey

Industry Leaders:

Liz Burdock, CEO & President, Business Network for Offshore Wind
David Hardy, CEO, Ørsted Offshore North America
Robert Blue, President & CEO, Dominion Energy
Jeffrey Grybowski, CEO, US Wind
Lars Pedersen, CEO, Vineyard Offshore

Labor Leaders:

Carl Kennebrew, International President of the IUE-CWA
Brad Markell, Executive Director of the AFL-CIO Industrial Union Council
Bill Dean, General Treasurer, Iron Workers
Carl Kennebrew, President, IUE-CWA
Sean McGarvey, President, NABTU
John Shinn, International Secretary-Treasurer, United Steelworkers
Lonnie Stephenson, International President, IBEW

Virtual Participants
Elected Officials:

Dan McKee, Governor of Rhode Island
Kathy Hochul, Governor of New York
Ned Lamont, Governor of Connecticut
Roy Cooper, Governor of North Carolina
Tom Wolf, Governor of Pennsylvania
Mary Beth Tung, Director of the Maryland Energy Administration, representing Maryland Governor Larry Hogan
Dan Burgess, Director, Governor's Energy Office, representing Maine Governor Janet Mills
Beth Card, Secretary, Executive Office of Energy and Environmental Affairs, representing Massachusetts Governor Charlie Baker
Mark Sanborn, Assistant Commissioner, New Hampshire Department of Environmental Services, representing New Hampshire Governor Chris Sununu

Labor Leaders:

Liz Shuler, President, AFL–CIO




June 23, 202215:34

In-town pool report #12 - Biden takes question
Biden took one question on the Supreme Court gun decision. Will send full quotes shortly.
"I think it's a bad decision, I'm disappointed," he said.



June 23, 202215:46

In-town pool report #13 - 2 min to briefing
Two minute warning to press briefing.



June 23, 202215:48

In-town pool report #14 -- Briefing begins
NSC Coordinator for Strategic Communications John Kirby kicked off the press briefing at 3:46 p.m.



June 23, 202216:14

In-town pool report #15 - More on Biden SCOTUS question
Here is more of Biden's answer during the pool spray:
"I am disappointed. There is one little bit of solace. The majority opinion has laid out that it affects not every state," he said, adding that there is phrase in the decision that is notable where only certain legislation is affected depending on whether they used the term "shell."
"The gun laws in 40 of these states are still in place based on this decision. Not good enough. I think it's a bad decision. I'm disappointed," he said.



June 23, 202216:47

In-town pool report #16 -- Biden quote correction
Quick correction to the quote from Biden I sent earlier.
"I am disappointed. There is one little bit of solace. The majority opinion has laid out that it affects not every state," he said, adding that there is phrase in the decision that is notable where only certain legislation is affected depending on whether they used the term "shall." 
"The gun laws in 40 of these states are still in place based on this decision. Not good enough. I think it's a bad decision. I'm disappointed," he said.



June 23, 202216:50

In-town pool report #17 - Briefing ends
Briefing ended at 4:50.



June 23, 202217:12

In-town pool report #18 - Lid
Lid called at 5:11 p.m.
Have a great evening all!




  