
    President Donald J. Trump today announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key positions in his Administration:
Dino Falaschetti of Montana, to be the Director of the Office of Financial Research, Department of the Treasury.
Mr. Falaschetti was born and raised in Illinois. He earned a Ph.D. from Washington University in St. Louis, an MBA with high honors from the University of Chicago's Booth School of Business, and a B.S. with distinction from Indiana University's Kelley School of Business. He served as a senior economist in President George W. Bush's Council of Economic Advisors, and currently serves as chief economist for the House Committee on Financial Services. Previously, as a professor, he earned tenure in economics and law, as well as a named professorship in finance. As a business professional, he managed a Fortune 100 corporate finance department, and also served as an expert witness on matters involving governance, accounting, and finance.
Michael A. Hammer of Maryland, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Democratic Republic of the Congo.
Mr. Hammer, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, has served as an American diplomat since 1988. He is currently acting senior vice president of the National Defense University in Washington, D.C., a position he has held since 2017. He previously served as United States Ambassador to Chile from 2014 to 2016, Assistant Secretary for Public Affairs at the Department of State from 2012 to 2013 and Special Assistant to the President as Senior Director for Press and Communications and spokesman for the National Security Council at the White House from 2009 to 2011. He has served at five U.S. Missions overseas and in several senior leadership positions in Washington. Mr. Hammer earned a M.S. at the National Defense University National War College, an M.A. from Tufts University Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy, and a B.S. from Georgetown University. He is fluent in Spanish, speaks French and Portuguese, and has a working knowledge of Icelandic.
Rodney Hood of North Carolina, to be a Member of the National Credit Union Administration for the remainder of a six year term expiring August 2, 2023.
Mr. Hood currently serves as a corporate responsibility manager for JPMorgan Chase and Co., where he manages national partnerships with organizations that serve community development, civil rights, and disability community. Mr. Hood was previously appointed by President George W. Bush to sit on the board of the National Credit Union Administration where he was confirmed by the Senate and elected vice chairman. He also served in the Senior Executive Service as the Associate Administrator of the Rural Housing Service at the UDepartment of Agriculture. The North Carolina Legislature elected him to a term as a member of the Board of Governors for the University of North Carolina College System – the oversight and policy body for the state of North Carolina's 17-public universities, hospitals and public radio & broadcasting stations. Mr. Hood earned a B.A. in business administration, communications and political science from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill.
Kathleen Laura Kraninger of Ohio, to be Director of the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection for a term of five years.
Ms. Kraninger currently serves as the Associate Director for General Government at the Office of Management and Budget. In her current position, Ms. Kraninger oversees $250 billion in budgetary resources for seven cabinet departments and thirty other federal agencies, including the Department of the Treasury, Department of Housing and Urban Development, and the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection. Ms. Kraninger started her career in public service as a Peace Corps volunteer. After the attacks on 9/11, she joined the newly created Department of Homeland Security, and was promoted to Deputy Assistant Secretary for Policy. Ms. Kraninger also worked in Congress, from 2011 to 2013 on the House Committee on Appropriations, and from 2013 to 2017 on the Senate Committee on Appropriations. She received a B.A. in political science and education, Phi Beta Kappa, from Marquette University, and a J.D. from Georgetown University.
-----
President Donald J. Trump today announced his intent to appoint the following individual to a key position in his Administration:
Darla Romfo of North Dakota, to be a Member of the Commission on Presidential Scholars.
  