
    Senate Democrats Are Failing To Meet Their Constitutional Obligation By Allowing These Important Positions To Remain Vacant

"For the first time in my Administration, the Sixth Circuit will now have a full court to address important issues facing the residents of Kentucky, Michigan, Ohio, and Tennessee. Unfortunately, too many other Federal judgeships across America remain vacant. This is unacceptable and inexcusable. Since the beginning of the 110th Congress, the Senate has confirmed only 10 circuit court nominees. In the last two years of the past three Administrations, the Senate has confirmed an average of 17 circuit court judges. I strongly urge the Senate to hold hearings and votes on the 28 pending circuit and district court nominations to ensure that our Nation has a fully functioning judicial system."
– President George W. Bush, 6/25/08
There are 394 total nominations pending in the Senate, of which 30 are career civilian appointments and 152 are military promotions. Of the remaining 212, about 60 percent have been pending longer than 90 days. These nominations cumulatively represent more than 50,000 days of missed opportunity in roles that are critical to our nation's security and prosperity. Most of these nominations are for military promotions, career promotions, or non-controversial appointments whose terms expire at the end of this administration. Before leaving for its 4th of July recess the Senate should fulfill its constitutional obligations to provide these pending nominees a fair up or down vote. The President believes it's time for the Senate to finally judge the President's nominees by their qualifications and not by the political calendar.
Some of the critical nominees include:
Judicial Nominations

8 Circuit Court Nominations
20 District Court Nominations

Economic Nominations

3 Members of the Security and Exchange Commission
3 Members of the Federal Reserve Board of Governors
1 Member of the Council of Economic Advisers
1 Deputy Secretary of the Department of Energy
2 Assistant Secretaries of the Department of Housing and Urban Development
1 President of the Government National Mortgage Association

Justice Department Nominations

4 Assistant Attorneys General
1 Solicitor General
1 Administrator, Drug Enforcement Administration
1 Director, Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives

Department of Homeland Security Nominations

1 Under Secretary for Management 
1 Deputy Administrator for FEMA 
1 General Counsel

Examples of Lengthy Delays

327 days Carl Kress, Federal Maritime Commissioner
470 days Carol Pope, Federal Labor Relations Authority Member
532 days Dan Meron, Health and Human Services General Counsel

  