
    Pool Reports by Mark Robison, Reno Gazette Journal 



Sent:
Reports:




June 3, 202211:29 PDT

VP travel pool report #1 - wheels down
VP landed at 11:28 a.m. at the Nevada Air National Guard field at Reno-Tahoe International Airport.



June 3, 202211:44 PDT

VP travel pool report #2 - rolling
The VP disembarked AF2 under blue skies with light clouds. One quick wave to pool. The motorcade left at 11:42 for the U.S. Conference of Mayors at the Peppermill Hotel Resort in Reno.



June 3, 202212:00 PDT

VP travel pool report #3 - at US Mayors conference
VP arrived at the U.S. Conference of Mayors at the Peppermill Hotel Resort at 11:50 a.m. A contingent of protesters seeking more affordable housing greeted the motorcade. One large banner read "Housing not handcuffs" and another "Decriminalize poverty."



June 3, 202213:29 PDT

VP travel pool report #4 - remarks and Zelensky
VP began speaking at 12:51 p.m. in the Tuscany Ballroom at the Peppermill Hotel Resort and spoke for about 20 minutes about how mayors are on the front lines and gave an impassioned plea for "common sense gun safety laws" to renew the assault weapon ban, expand background checks, repeal shield laws for gun manufacturers and pass red flag laws. Applause and laughter sprinkled the address with a standing ovation at one point.
Quote highlights to come.
After the VP spoke, Volodymyr Zelensky joined the conference by video link.
Motorcade en route to Reno-Tahoe International Airport at 1:15 p.m. with arrival at 1:28 p.m.



June 3, 202213:50 PDT

VP travel pool report #5 - comment on tarmac
The VP took one question from the pool on the tarmac about whether she thought progress could be made on gun-safety legislation. While realistic about the challenges, she said, "I remain optimistic."
Wheels up at 1:48 p.m.



June 3, 202214:52 PDT

VP travel pool report #6 - speaking at US Mayors conference
A few quote highlights from VP address at U.S. Conference of Mayors in Reno:

Once again we are forced to defend fundamental principles that we thought were well-established, principles like the freedom to vote, the rights of women to make decisions about their own bodies, and questioning what constitutes truth.
Our country is facing what might be considered an epidemic of hate where people are being targeted just because of who they are, because of their race, because of their ethnicity, their gender, their religion, their sexual orientation. This then is a moment that requires all of us as leaders, as citizens of a society – a civil society – to stand up and say enough is enough. (Applause.)
Let us not allow those who are motivated by hate to separate us or to make us feel fear.
To combat hate, we cannot be silent and we must have the courage to speak truth about what fueled these crimes.
No 86-year-old should fear for her safety to go to the grocery store. No nine-year-old should be afraid to go to school. And no 18-year-old should be able to buy a weapon of war. (Applause and standing ovation.)
It’s clear that we must renew the assault weapons ban. We must repeal the liability shield that protects gun manufacturers, and we must pass red flag laws to prevent people from possessing fire arms if they are a danger to themselves or others.

She also called on the U.S. Senate to approve a permanent director of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives.



  