
    Bilateral Multi-Year Assistance
The United States is committed to a long-term relationship with Pakistan. We will work to strengthen our partnership in the war against terror, and to help the Pakistani people build a modern, prosperous, democratic state.
New Initiatives
Bilateral Assistance

The Administration will work with Congress to provide $3 billion in development and security assistance to Pakistan over five years, in annual installments of $600 million.
In addition, the Administration has requested $120 million in FY 2004 for Pakistan in development assistance, health, law enforcement, and other programs.

Economic, Trade, and Investment Cooperation

A Trade and Investment Framework Agreement will be concluded to create a formal structure that will expand our bilateral economic partnership and promote investment.
An additional $75 million in private sector lending to Pakistan will be guaranteed by OPIC.
A Five-year trade capacity-building program will be launched under the auspices of the U.S. Department of Commerce Commercial Law Development Program.

Science and Technology

A Science and Technology Agreement will be concluded to promote cooperation in these areas, especially in support of scientific exchanges.

Ongoing Initiatives
Science and Technology

Bilateral discussions initiated in April 2002 include a broad array of possible technical and institutional cooperation projects.

Education Reform

A five-year, $100 million U.S. Presidential education initiative was launched in 2002. The program is designed to improve education policies, with particular emphasis on:

Improving literacy;
Training teachers and administrators;
Expanding access to education for girls; and
Increasing community involvement in primary education.



Democracy and Human Rights

The U.S. Government continues to operate several programs to strengthen the elected legislature, civil society, independent media and political parties, and to support civil society-government development partnerships at the local level.
In 2002, the U.S. Department of Labor launched a $5 million child labor and vocational training program for Punjab youth.

Health

The U.S. operates several programs to improve Pakistani health services, with an emphasis on maternal and child health needs.

Law Enforcement

In 2002, the United States and Pakistan established the Joint Working Group on Counterterrorism and Law Enforcement which works to improve coordination and interdiction capability in counterterrorism and counternarcotics. The two governments also established a ministerial-level dialogue on counterterror issues.
The U.S. government continues to help Pakistan strengthen its border security, anti-terrorism efforts, law enforcement, and counternarcotics programs.

Defense

The bilateral Defense Consultative Group meets regularly to discuss military-to-military relations.
The U.S. and Pakistan are working together to bring Pakistan's export controls and practices in line with international standards.

  