
    "I think one of our concerns, one of the two concerns I have, one is Obamacare and the fact that if it's fully implemented we're going to compete with companies who simply drop their health care and we're hearing this just pay the penalty and settle for cut-rate government provided health care.... We'll be the disadvantaged because we care more than just about the bottom line. It's going to, I believe, it's going to hurt the average worker, not help them." – Kyle Koehler, K.K. Tool Co., Inc.
Rep. Bob Latta and Kyle Koehler of K.K. Tool Co., Inc.
"President Obama Is Hostile To Ohio Job Creators" Press Conference Call
June 4, 2012
Click Here To Listen To The Entire Call
Highlights From The "President Obama Is Hostile To Ohio Job Creators" Press Conference Call:
REP. BOB LATTA: "So I hear this all the time and we've got to make sure that people can compete in this country. And that you know the big problem out there is that when businesses are looking at their bottom line and they go we can't make decisions because we don't know where this country is going to be in, not just twelve months but where is it going to be in sixteen months, because businesses don't plan with a 12 month extension or a 24 month extension of tax rates or other issues out there. They need long term solutions to their problems and we've got to get these things done."
KYLE KOEHLER, K.K. TOOL CO.,INC.: "I think one of our concerns, one of the two concerns I have, one is Obamacare and the fact that if it's fully implemented we're going to compete with companies who simply drop their health care and we're hearing this just pay the penalty and settle for cut-rate government provided health care. It's something that we would never do for our employees because we have to care about them the way we care about our own families. In the end, we're not going to be able to compete with folks who do that. We'll be the disadvantaged because we care more than just about the bottom line. It's going to I believe it's going to hurt the average worker, not help them."
  