
    ARLINGTON, VA -- Today, McCain spokesman Tucker Bounds issued the following statement on Barack Obama's remarks concerning global competitiveness: 
"Barack Obama's agenda to raise taxes and isolate America from foreign markets will not get our economy back on track or create new jobs. Even Barack Obama admits that it's poor economic judgment to want to raise taxes while our economy is struggling. Even Barack Obama's advisors admit that his trade policies will harm our economy. To help create jobs in America, we need to lower taxes and open up foreign markets to American goods. Americans cannot afford Barack Obama's 'change' that takes us back to the failed policies of the past." 
BARACK OBAMA: TAX INCREASES WILL HURT THE ECONOMY 
Barack Obama's Plan To Raise Taxes During An Economic Downturn Would Only Further Weaken Our Economy:
Last Week, Barack Obama Admitted His Tax Increases Will Harm The Economy. CNBC'S JOHN HARWOOD: "And I found this fascinating, Maria, that on the issue of taxes, he looked to insulate himself by saying that if, in fact, economic conditions justify the fact that it might harm the economy, he might be willing to hold off some of his tax increases when he takes office in January. Let's take a listen to Barack Obama." BARACK OBAMA: "Some of those, you could possibly defer. But I think the basic principle of restoring fairness to our economy and encouraging bottom-up economic growth is important. So here's what we know: We know that over the last decade or so, that more than half of the economic growth has been captured by the top one percent of U.S. citizens. That means the other 99 percent have seen their effective incomes go down. That is not a recipe for long- term economic growth." (CNBC, 6/9/08)


    Watch Barack Obama On CNBC
  

CNBC's Maria Bartiromo Asked Barack Obama: "Why Raise Taxes At All In An Economic Slowdown? Isn't That Going To Put A Further Strain On People?" (CNBC's "Closing Bell," 3/27/08) 
BARACK OBAMA'S ISOLATIONIST TRADE POLICIES 
Barack Obama's Isolationist Stance Would Slow Growth And Hurt America's Global Competitiveness: 
The Wall Street Journal: "On The Record So Far, Mr. Obama Is The Most Protectionist U.S. Presidential Candidate In Decades." "On the record so far, Mr. Obama is the most protectionist U.S. presidential candidate in decades. In February he inserted a statement opposing the Korean trade deal into the Congressional record only days before securing the endorsement of the powerful Teamsters union. He also opposes the U.S.-Colombia pact, and he has called for rewriting Nafta -- unilaterally if Canada and Mexico don't play along. Mr. Obama's economic adviser, Austan Goolsbee, told Canadian officials this was all for primary show, but the candidate is backing himself into a political corner should he win the White House." (Editorial, "Change You'll Have To Pay For," The Wall Street Journal, 5/28/08)

"[E]conomists Remain Almost Unanimous In Warning That Restricting Trade Would Slow Overall Growth." (Justin Fox, "How The Next President Should Fix The Economy," Time, 5/26/08)


Barack Obama Pledged To Renegotiate NAFTA With The Threat Of A "Potential Opt-Out." NBC's Tim Russert: "A simple question. Will you as president say to Canada and Mexico, this [NAFTA] has not worked for us, we are out?" Obama: "I will make sure that we renegotiate in the same way that Senator Clinton talked about, and I think actually Senator Clinton's answer on this one is right. I think we should use the hammer of a potential opt-out as leverage to ensure that we actually get labor and environmental standards that are enforced." (Sen. Barack Obama, MSNBC Democrat Presidential Debate, Cleveland, OH, 2/26/08) 
Barack Obama Opposes NAFTA, CAFTA, The South Korea And Colombia Free Trade Agreements, And Permanent Normal Trade Relations With China. Obama: "But what I refuse to accept is that we have to sign trade deals like the South Korea Agreement that are bad for American workers. What I oppose - and what I have always opposed - are trade deals that put the interests of multinational corporations ahead of the interests of Americans workers - like NAFTA, and CAFTA, and permanent normal trade relations with China. And I'll also oppose the Colombia Free Trade Agreement if President Bush insists on sending it to Congress ..." (Sen. Barack Obama, Remarks To The AFL-CIO, Philadelphia, PA, 4/2/08) 
OBAMA VS. ADVISOR AUSTIN GOOLSBEE: Barack Obama's Advisor Opposes Renegotiating NAFTA
On February 27, 2008, CTV News Reported An Obama Adviser Went To The Canadian Embassy And Sent Message That Barack Obama's Campaign Rhetoric Critical Of NAFTA Was Not Serious. "Barack Obama has ratcheted up his attacks on NAFTA, but a senior member of his campaign team told a Canadian official not to take his criticisms seriously, CTV News has learned. Both Obama and Hillary Clinton have been critical of the long-standing North American Free Trade Agreement over the course of the Democratic primaries, saying that the deal has cost U.S. workers' jobs. Within the last month, a top staff member for Obama's campaign telephoned Michael Wilson, Canada's ambassador to the United States, and warned him that Obama would speak out against NAFTA, according to Canadian sources." ("Obama Staffer Gave Warning Of NAFTA Rhetoric," CTV News, www.ctv.ca , 2/27/08) 
After The Campaign's Denials, The Associated Press Noted A Memo Written By The Canadian Consulate Which Described An Obama Adviser's Visit. "Barack Obama's senior economic policy adviser said Sunday that Canadian government officials wrote an inaccurate portrayal of his private discussion on the campaign's trade policy in a memo obtained by The Associated Press. The memo is the first documentation to emerge publicly out of the meeting between the adviser, Austan Goolsbee, and officials with the Canadian consulate in Chicago..." ( Nedra Pickler, "Obama Adviser Denies Trade Remarks," The Associated Press, 3/2/08)

Canadian Consulate Memo: "Noting anxiety among many U.S. domestic audiences about the U.S. economic outlook, Goolsbee candidly acknowledged the protectionist sentiment that has emerged, particularly in the Midwest, during the primary campaign. He cautioned that this messaging should not be taken out of context and should be viewed as more about political positioning than a clear articulation of policy plans." (Nedra Pickler, "Obama Adviser Denies Trade Remarks," The Associated Press, 3/2/08)


OBAMA VS. ADVISOR JASON FURMAN: Advisor Jason Furman Has Warned Against Democrats Like Barack Obama Who "Bash Trade And Call For Protectionism"
"And In Recently Naming Jason Furman A Senior Advisor, Obama Chose A Centrist Economist Whose Strong Record In Favor Of Free Trade Has Infuriated Labor And Liberal Activists." (Janet Hook, "Two Sides Of The American Coin," Los Angeles Times, 6/15/08) 
Furman Has Warned Democrats Against Democrats Attempting To "Bash Trade And Call For Protectionism." Furman: "I hope the lesson that Democratic candidates take from this is not to bash trade and call for protectionism, but instead to call for a robust safety net. Those are all the best answers." (NPR's "Morning Edition," 10/9/07)
  