
    Today President George W. Bush awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom to six individuals. The text of each recipient's citation reads as follows:
Benjamin S. Carson, Sr., M.D.Dr. Benjamin Carson is a pioneer in pediatric neurosurgery, and his life is a testament to the power of education, hard work, and faith. His groundbreaking contributions to medicine provide hope for people suffering neurological disorders, and his tireless outreach to America's youth underscores the importance of academic achievement and humanitarian service. The United States honors Benjamin Carson for his skill, his vision, and his dedication to motivating others to strive for excellence.
Anthony S. Fauci, M.D.As a physician, medical researcher, author, and public servant, Dr. Anthony Fauci has dedicated his life to expanding the horizons of human knowledge and making progress toward groundbreaking cures for diseases. His efforts to advance our understanding and treatment of HIV/AIDS have brought hope and healing to tens of millions in both developed and developing nations. The United States honors Anthony Fauci for his commitment to enabling men, women, and children to live longer, healthier lives.
Tom LantosTom Lantos was a champion of human rights and a man of character and conviction. An American by choice and the only Holocaust survivor to serve in the Congress, he worked to empower oppressed people around the world in their struggle to secure liberty. He served as a powerful witness for the importance of freedom and reminded us that we must never turn a blind eye to inhumanity. The United States honors Tom Lantos for his committed leadership and his lifetime of service to our Nation and the world.
General Peter Pace, U.S. Marine Corps (Ret.)The sixteenth Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, General Peter Pace is one of our Nation's most accomplished and respected military leaders. He fought for our Nation with honor, and he helped to craft America's response to an unprecedented assault on our homeland. The United States honors Peter Pace for his steadfast leadership, his selfless devotion to keeping Americans safe, and his great courage.
Donna Edna ShalalaA distinguished scholar, teacher, academic administrator, and public servant, Donna Shalala has dedicated herself to improving the lives of her fellow citizens. She has devoted her prodigious energies to strengthening a wide range of institutions fundamental to American life. The United States honors Donna Shalala for her leadership and for her determination to ensure that all Americans can enjoy lives of hope, promise, and dignity.
Laurence H. SilbermanLaurence H. Silberman has devoted his life to promoting, enforcing, and defending the rule of law. As a judge, he has been a clear-eyed guardian of the Constitution, and he has applied the law with wisdom and integrity. From the Cold War to the War on Terror, his work to strengthen the institutions that protect our Nation has made Americans safer and their liberties more secure. The United States honors Laurence Silberman for his resolute service to the Nation and his stalwart efforts to advance the cause of ordered liberty.
  