
    Former Minnesota Gov. Tim Pawlenty announced his Iowa Legislative Steering Committee today.
"I am fortunate to have this talented group of legislators on my team," Governor Pawlenty said. "Their experience and knowledge combined with their eagerness to restore American prosperity bolsters my Iowa campaign's efforts to build successful coalitions in this important state."
The Iowa Legislative Steering Committee includes:

Rep. Erik Helland is a resident of Johnston. He was a BSA Officer at West Bank until he became the State Director for Gov. Pawlenty's campaign. Helland was first elected in 2008. He is the Majority Whip in the Iowa House.


Sen. Randy Feenstra has served in the Iowa Senate since 2009. He was a sales manager for the Foreign Candy Company before serving as a City Administrator of Hull, Iowa for seven years. In 2006, he was elected Sioux County Treasurer.


Rep. Linda Miller was first elected in 2006 and is the Human Resources Committee Chair. She is a Registered Nurse.


Rep. Steve Lukan is from Dubuque, Iowa. He is an Assistant Leader and helped his father run Lukan Service until August of 2008. Since then, he has joined English Insurance in Dyersville as an Account Executive specializing in commercial insurance. Steve was first elected in 2006.


Rep. Chris Hagenow was first elected to the Iowa House in 2008, and re-elected to a second term in 2010. Chris is the Chairman of the House Committee on Government Oversight. Chris is a partner at Whitaker Hagenow GBMG.


Rep. Matt Windschitl was first elected in 2006 at the age of 22, becoming the youngest legislator serving in the General Assembly. He was elected to serve as an Assistant Minority Leader in November 2008.


Sen. Rob Bacon won election against an incumbent in 2010. He has managed and owned funeral homes since 1983.


Sen. Shawn Hamerlinck works as a Youth Field Specialist in the Iowa State University Scott County Extension office where he develops youth programming and oversees programs such as 4-H. In addition, Hamerlinck is an Adjunct Faculty Member at Augustana and Black Hawk College. He was first elected in 2008.


Rep. Chip Baltimore is from Boone, Iowa and was elected in 2010. Baltimore works for Boone Bank & Trust Co. as in-house counsel, vice-president and trust officer.


Rep. Joel Fry and his wife, Heather, have four children. They live in rural Osceola where they own two small businesses. He was elected in 2010.

  