
    Pool Reports by Nadia Bilbassy, Al-Arabiya 



Sent:
Reports:




June 3, 202314:14 EEST

FLOTUS Pool #1 Middle East visit -Cairo day 2
Good Morning from this historical site, we arrived an hour before FLOTUS's motorcade and enjoyed being at the presence of the majestic Sphinx, and the two pyramids Khufu and Khafra'
FLOTUS walked down the steps that lead to the Sphinx statue at 8:16 am with Dr Moustafa Waziri, Secretary General of the Supreme council of Antiquities, she was facing the camera while getting a briefing from Mr Waziri about restoration, and the different versions of why the pharaohs built the pyramids, and their thoughts about afterlife burial.
They walked briskly to the historical door behind Sphinx itself while Dr Waziri explained more about Hieroglyphics symptoms and signs and how they were meant to be read , either from right to left or top down .
Leslie Reed of USAID also explained the work of this American development organization of helping to preserve antiquities with projects like controlling underground water that can damage historical sights because of the saline it contains.
"We have invested $100 million dollars since 1995 in projects all over Egypt", Said Leslie.
USAID has been working with the Egyptian government to help preserve the antiquities and creating thousands of jobs in the process.
Pool moved to the second sight, the biggest of the three pyramids where Dr Asharaf Muhaidiin , Director of the Giza Pyramids explained to her the process of building the pyramids, he said," if you can build the pyramids we can build anything ".
Dr Biden then climbed the historical giant stone steps and went inside the pyramid through a door in the middle. Press was kept at a distance.
The biggest pyramid stands at 481 feet high, as high as a 35 to 40 story office building.
The pyramids are considered one of the seven wonders of the world and UNISCO protected sight.
The third and last stop was the panoramic view of the three Pyramids, the First Lady was listening to more explanation about the new museum before she was presented with a gift by the Minister of Tourism and Dr Waziri , it was a replica of a beatle nicklace with a huge blue stone which according to ancient Egyptian is a symbol of resurrection.
The trip lasted for over an hour, FLOTUS was accompanied by her daughter and sister during the visit.
Next stop is the airport for departure to Marrakech.
Background from the FLOTUS office:
Cairo, Egypt: Visit to Pyramids of Giza:
In the morning, the First Lady will visit the Pyramids of Giza and the Great Sphinx of Giza in Cairo, Egypt. The First Lady will learn about the U.S. and Egypt's partnership and efforts to preserve and sustain the historic sites. During the visit, the First Lady will meet with and be guided by:


Dr. Mostafa Waziri, Secretary General of the Supreme Council of Antiquities of Egypt 

Ahmed Issa, Minister of Tourism and Antiquities of Egypt 

Ambassador John Desrocher, Charge d'Affaires of U.S. Embassy Cairo 

Leslie Reed, Egypt Mission Director, USAID 

Within preservation efforts, the First Lady will hear about USAID's collaboration with the Arab Republic of Egypt to lower the groundwater to safe levels to protect the antiquities from deterioration. In 2006, USAID initiated a project to install deep wells and more than a mile of piping systems after standing surface water in low-lying areas of the Pyramids of Giza weakened the foundations of the ancient structures. The project was completed in 2012, protecting the Great Sphinx of Giza from further degradation of gro


June 3, 202317:30 WEST

FLOTUS Pool#2 Middle East trip Cairo-Marrakech
Plane took off from Cairo airport at 12:58 pmFirst Lady of Egypt Mrs. Entissar Amer bid farewell to FLOTUS at the VIP lounge, she accompanied her to the stairs of the plane walking together on the red carpet and chatting via the interpreter.
Dr Biden said goodbye to the US charge d'Affairs ambassador John Desrocher and other embassy staff before embarking on the plane.
While on board, the captain on behalf of the crew wished Dr Biden a happy birthday. She is turning 72 today, she has started the day in Cairo at the Pyramids and will end it in Marrakech with the company of her daughter, sister and her staff.
Flight to Marrakech was 5:45 minutes, at the airport she will be greeted by HRH Princess Lalla Hasna of Morocco, the US ambassador to Morocco and his wife, and both the Mayor and the governor of Marrakech.
Below is the list of names of greeters :
Arrival in Marrakech, Morocco
In the afternoon, the First in Marrakech, Morocco. The First Lady will be greeted by Her Royal Highness Princess Lalla Hasna of Morocco. This arrival will be covered by the traveling print pooler and press managed by the Royal Palace.
Upon arrival, the First Lady will be greeted by:

Governor Karim Kassi-Lahlou, Wali of the Marrakech-Safi Region and Governor of Marrakech 
Fatima Zahra Mansouri, Mayor of Marrakech and Minister of National Planning, Urban Planning, Housing, and Urban Policy 
Samir Goodar, President of the Marrakech-Safi Regional Council 
Puneet Talwar, U.S. Ambassador to the Kingdom of Morocco 
Dr. Sarosh Sattar, spouse of the U.S. Ambassador to the Kingdom of Morocco 
Lawrence Randolph, U.S. Consul General in Casablanca, Morocco




June 3, 202319:33 WEST

FLOTUS Pool #3 arrival on Marrakech
We touched down in Marrakech at 4:40 pm local time. A along red carpet stretched from a beautiful building built in Moroccan style using red bricks to the foot of the plane. The King's sister Princess Lalla Hasna dressed in a black suit stood under a moderate sun waiting for the First Lady to disembark.
The Moroccan Royal guards with their traditional white dress holding their swords awaited the First Lady, she shock hands with the princess and introduced her daughter Ashley, and her sister.
At the other end of the red carpet greeters lined up including US ambassador Puneet Talwar and his wife Dr Sarosh Satta. FLOTUS hugged him warmly. Ambassador Talwar worked at the National Security Council during Obama White House.
She was also greeted by the mayor of a Marrakech, Fatima Zahra Mansouri and Governor Karim Kassi-Lahlou.
They walked to the main receiving area where she was welcomed with Moroccan tea and had a small chat with the Princess, the area was decorated with dark red and gold with open door on each sides.
After the pool spay, we left the room and went back to the vans. No more events for the night.
Salam from beautiful Marrakech.
FYI :Additional info from FLOTUS office on her embassy meeting in Cairo .
Cairo, Egypt: Visit to U.S. Embassy Cairo
Later in the morning, the First Lady greeted families and staff at U.S. Embassy Cairo. The First Lady also met with Sudanese staff of U.S. Embassy Khartoum who are currently in Cairo, Egypt after U.S. Embassy Khartoum temporarily suspended operations on April 22, 2023 due to the ongoing conflict perpetuated by the Sudanese Armed Forces and the Rapid Support Forces. This visit is closed press



\r\n
  