
    Pool Reports by Todd Gillman, The Dallas Morning News 



Sent:
Reports:




June 22, 202112:20

pool report #1/checking in
It's a dreary afternoon with a light mist coating your fully vaccinated and Covid-tested pooler as he entered the White House, though others entering moments later were drenched. Bring an umbrella.
No changes on the President's public schedule.
At 1:45 PM, the in-house pool is expected in the Roosevelt Room as the president meets with FEMA Administrator Deanne Criswell and Homeland Security Advisor and Deputy National Security Advisor Dr. Elizabeth Sherwood-RandallWe'll try to be unobtrusive as we leave for that during the 1 PM press briefing.



June 22, 202113:12

pool report #2/two-minute warning for briefing 
We have a 2-minute warning for the Psaki briefing scheduled for 1 pm.
The White House COVID-19 Response Team briefing ended a moment earlier.



June 22, 202114:09

pool report #3/Roosevelt Room - FEMA briefing 
The pool was ushered into the Roosevelt Room at 2:05 pm for President Biden's meeting with FEMA Administrator Deanne Criswell and Homeland Security Advisor and Deputy National Security Advisor Dr. Elizabeth Sherwood-Randall.
Biden is talking about "extreme weather."
"Now we have to respond to these bug old storms... we're going to bring every resource to bear... I insist on being ready for whatever comes out way."
Says he'll host a meeting with western governors next week to prepare for drought and heat and wildfires.
More tk



June 22, 202114:12

pool report #4/FEMA briefing 
More from Roosevelt Room
Biden says he just learned that federal firefighters are paid $13. He banged the table and said that's ridiculous.
Pool ushered out at 2:10. The president ignored a question: On voting rights, is this the end? He responded "Thank you" and kept his mouth closed. More tk



June 22, 202115:09

pool report #5/full Biden comments at FEMA briefing 
President Biden spoke for a bit over 3 minutes and took no questions. No one else spoke.
The president referred to written remarks.
"We want to make sure that we're in position to help Americans all across the country."
"The last few days we've seen droughts and wildfire in the west. We've seen tornadoes in Illinois, flooding in the South and Mid-Atlantic. Extreme weather doesn't confine itself, as you all know, to state lines. These crises require pro-active federal response. It's just not just the states."
To the FEMA administrator, Biden said, "You've already stepped up this year to help vaccinate the American people and… now we have to respond to brutal storms, and more severe storms and fires and they extend into longer seasons every year." (NOTE: "brutal storms" corrects previous report with quote about "bug old storms," which of course was supposed to say "big old storms," though the cicada swarms were nasty this spring.)
"We're going to bring every resource to bear to be prepared, to respond and to help people recover. It's a big challenge and we're making sure FEMA and other front-line agencies have what they need to continue getting the job done. And I insist on being ready for whatever comes our way. That's what this is all about."
Said he'll be hosting a meeting of Western governors, FEMA and cabinet members next week "to prepare for heat, drought and wildfires in the West."
"There's an old expression: God made man. Then he made a few firefighters. They have a higher incidence of severe injuries than police officers do. They are incredibly, incredibly brave at what they do…. And I just realized—I didn't realize this, I admit—that federal firefighters get paid 13 dollars an hour. That's gonna end in my administration [he banged the table once for emphasis]. That's a ridiculously low salary to pay federal firefighters."
"Many of you have covered what's already happened. The drought in the West is just astounding when you look at. Fires have already started. Flooding. So, we're in for a tough season but I think we've got to be prepared, [have] every resource available."
The questions shouted at the end:
"Mr. President, on voting rights, is this the end? Is it over?" (Biden said "Thank you" and kept his mouth shut after that as wranglers prodded the pool out the door.) "On voting rights, sir—is it over?"
The president was flanked at the table by FEMA Administrator Deanne Criswell (on his right) and Homeland Security Advisor and Deputy National Security Advisor Dr. Elizabeth Sherwood-Randall (on his left). Others at the table: Jen O'Malley Dillon, Julie Rodriguez, David Bibo, Cedric Richmond, Ron Klain, Caitlin Durkovich



June 22, 202115:10

pool report #6/lid 
A travel/photo lid was declared at 3:09 pm.
Your pooler will bug out shortly.
It has been a pleasure.



June 22, 202116:20

pool report #7/infrastructure meeting readout
Onpassing from the press office
From Press Secretary Jen Psaki:The White House team had a productive meeting with the bipartisan Senate group working on infrastructure. While progress was made, more work remains to be done. We expect our team to meet again with the bipartisan group later today or tomorrow, as schedules permit.



June 22, 202117:36

Pool report #8/background on crime meeting tomorrow
Onpassing from the press office:
Tomorrow, the President and the Attorney General will meet with stakeholders at the White House to discuss ways the Biden-Harris Administration is acting to keep our cities and neighborhoods safe. Attendees include:
Attorney General Gurbir S. Grewal, New JerseyMayor Steve Allender, Rapid City, SDMayor Brandon M. Scott, Baltimore, MDMayor Daniella Levine Cava, Miami-Dade County, FLChief Murphy J. Paul, Jr., Baton Rouge, LADeVone Boggan, Founder and CEO of Advance PeaceEddie Bocanegra, Senior Director at READI Chicago




  