
    President Obama and King Abdullah bin Abdulaziz Al-Saud met today and reaffirmed the strong, historic ties between the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and the United States of America.
The leaders stated their strong support for the efforts of the P5+1 with regard to Iran’s nuclear program and urged Iran to meet its international obligations under UN Security Council and IAEA resolutions.
They expressed their hope that proximity talks between Israelis and Palestinians will lead to the resumption of direct talks with the aim of two states living side-by-side in peace and security. The President and King Abdullah also discussed the importance of resuming the Israeli-Syrian and the Israeli-Lebanese tracks in order to achieve a comprehensive peace in the Middle East. The President welcomed the King’s continued leadership in support of the Arab Peace Initiative.
The leaders also discussed international efforts to assist Afghanistan, their support for the Lebanese government as it seeks to preserve its sovereignty, the importance of a secure and prosperous Yemen, and the need for an inclusive government formation process in Iraq and the expansion of productive ties between a unified, sovereign Iraq and its neighbors.
The President and King Abdullah reaffirmed the importance of efforts to prevent violent extremism. The President welcomed Saudi Arabia’s successful counterterrorism actions against Al-Qa’ida, including the positions taken by the Kingdom’s highest religious body to prohibit terrorism and its financing. He also expressed his support for King Abdullah’s initiative to promote dialogue among religions and cultures. The President reiterated to the King his commitment to close the Guantanamo Bay detention facilities.
President Obama and King Abdullah also consulted on the results of the G-20 summit and global economic growth. They welcomed the continuing expansion of economic, scientific, business, and educational ties, including the historically high numbers of Saudi students in the United States.
Both leaders look forward to further strengthening relations between the two countries, noting that this year marks the 65th anniversary of the historic meeting between President Roosevelt and King Abdulaziz on the USS Quincy in 1945.
  