
    The following listing includes the President's daily schedule and other items of general interest as announced by the White House Press Office during the period covered by this issue. Events and announcements printed elsewhere in the issue are not included.
June 11
The President returned to the White House following a weekend stay at Camp David, Md.
June 12
The President ,net at the White House with:
—David L. Aaron, Deputy Assistant for National Security Affairs;
—Frank B. Moore, Assistant to the President for Congressional Liaison;
—Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare Joseph A. Califano, Jr., and Senator Warren G. Magnuson of Washington;
—Secretary of Housing and Urban Development Patricia Roberts Harris;
—Vice President Walter F. Mondale;
—Vice President Mondale, Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance, and U.S. Representatives and Alternate Representatives to the 10th Special Session of the United Nations Devoted to Disarmament;
—Senator Maryon Allen of Alabama.
The President hosted a reception for' members of the Trilateral Commission in the East Room at the White House.
June 13
The President met at the White House with:
—Mr. Aaron;
—Mr. Moore;
—James T. Mcintyre, Jr., Director of the Office of Management and Budget, and Jack H. Watson, Jr., Secretary to the Cabinet and Assistant to the President for Intergovernmental Affairs.
June 14
The President met at the White House with:
—Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs;
—Mr. Moore;
—Vice President Mondale, Adm. Stansfield Turner, Director of Central Intelligence, and Dr. Brzezinski;
—Mrs. Carter, for lunch.
June 15
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Secretary of Defense Harold Brown, Deputy Secretary of State Warren M. Christopher, Gen. George S. Brown, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Clark M. Clifford, the President's personal emissary to Greece, Turkey, and Cyprus, Mr. Moore, and a group of Congressmen, to discuss lifting the U.S. arms embargo against Turkey;
—representatives of the Business Roundtable;
—John C. White, chairman, and Evan S. Dobelle, treasurer-designate, Democratic National Committee;
—John Ingram, Democratic candidate for the U.S. Senate from North Carolina;
—Senator Floyd K. Haskell of Colorado and a group of Denver business and community leaders.
June 16
The President left the White House for a trip to Atlanta, Ga., and Panama.
The President designated Davis Eugene Boster, U.S. Ambassador to Guatemala, as his personal representative, with the rank of Special Ambassador, to attend the ceremonies at the inauguration of Gen.. Fernando Romeo Lucas Garcia as President of the Republic of Guatemala, to be held in Guatemala June 29—July 1.
  