
    Pool Reports by Emily Goodin, Daily Mail 



Sent:
Reports:




June 30, 202112:47 MST

FLOTUS/SGOTUS pool report #1 - Phoenix middle school 
Greetings from Phoenix.
FLOTUS and SGOTUS arrived at the Isaac Middle School at 12:24 pm Pacific time.
Pool saw them exit the motorcade. Dr. Biden is wearing a lavender dress.
They are touring vaccination site with Phoenix Mayor Kate Gallego. There are about 45 people here. Clinic has standard registration area, shot area, observation area. Room is colorful and decorated with large fruit cutouts - a banana, a donut, a piece of pizza and a slice of watermelon - on the wall.
FLOTUS and SGOTUS entered at 12:27 pm. They stopped at registration table first and then moved on to see the tables where shots are administered. All are wearing face masks.
"You very brave," FLOTUS told a girl getting her shot.
Here is background on the visit from the East Wing:
The First Lady and Second Gentleman will tour a pop-up COVID-19 vaccination clinic hosted at Isaac Middle School in Phoenix, Arizona, and encourage Arizonans to get vaccinated.
The Isaac School District is hosting a vaccination clinic at Isaac Middle School in partnership with the Equality Health Foundation and Adelante Healthcare. The clinic will be open to students 12 years and older as well as staff, parents, and the broader Phoenix community. Adelante Healthcare will administer the vaccines.
PARTICIPANTS
Arrival greet:• Mayor Kate Gallego• Ray Arvizu, Advisor, Equality Health Foundation• Ernestina Arvizu, Advisor, Equality Health Foundation• Mr. Kevin Sotomayor, Principal, Isaac Middle School• Dr. Mario Ventura, Superintendent, Isaac School District
Tour participants:• Mayor Kate Gallego (D, Phoenix)• Mr. Ray Arvizu, Equality Health Foundation• Mrs. Ernestina Arvizu, Equality Health Foundation
Speaking program:• Pre-program:o Congressman Ruben Gallego (D, AZ-07)o Ana De Carolis, Training Associate, Made to Save• Mayor Kate Gallego (D, Phoenix)
Wednesday's clinic will take place from 11:30 AM to 3:00 PM MST. This will be the third COVID19 vaccination clinic hosted at Isaac Middle School in partnership with the Equality Health Foundation and Adelante Healthcare.
The clinic will be open to students, staff and members of the broader Phoenix community. All three types of vaccines (Pfizer, Moderna, and Johnson & Johnson) will be offered.



June 30, 202112:49 MST

FLOTUS/SGOTUS pool report #2 - more from tour 
Dr. Biden and Doug Emhoff were given a packet containing a face mask and hand sanitizer that everyone who comes in is given. Both were already wearing face masks.
The first girl who got her shot said she likes to cook. Dr. Biden asked her if she wants to go to culinary school.
They moved to a second girl and Dr. Biden took a pic with her.
"Thank you for getting vaccinated," FLOTUS told people in waiting room.
There was a lot of posing for pics.
Biden and Emhoff posed for a picture with a teenage girl in the observation area and then with two boys. Another girl got a pic with them. They also posed for pics with clinic workers.
It is hard to hear as pool is across the room and all are masked.
The two exited clinic at 12:41 pm.
Pool is headed to room where there will be remarks.



June 30, 202113:06 MST

FLOTUS/SGOTUS pool report #3 - Cindy McCain is here 
Cindy McCain is here and seated in front row for remarks.
Both FLOTUS and SGOTUS will speak.
There are a little more than 100 people in the room for remarks. It is a gym so the seats are spread apart.
C-SPAN is airing their remarks: https://www.c-span.org/video/?513113-1/lady-makes-remarks-vaccination-si...



June 30, 202113:45 MST

FLOTUS/SGOTUS pool report #4 - remarks 
Phoenix Mayor Kate Gallego introduced FLOTUS and SGOTUS. She noted that Maricopa county "voted for Biden/Harris" last year.
Doug Emhoff spoke next. He noted this past year has been "really tough especially for frontline workers … with just putting their safety and their lives on the line for us."
"As we also know, things are starting to get better."
"The reason we are able to be here without masks, the reason Dr. Biden and I were able to go the Astros game without masks is because the vaccine work."
"It's too soon to declare victory. We have to keep fighting."
He said both of his kids are vaccinated. "And I gotta tell you, it was such a sigh of relief," adding he is sleeping better at night with his kids vaccinated.
"At the end of the day the only way we're going to put this behind us as if we keep getting the word out, as leaders working together."
He introduced Dr. Biden, who spoke next. The two hugged after SGOTUS introduced her.
Dr. Biden: "This is actually our first official trip together. … Usually we divide and conquer. But today our message is so important that we wanted to come to fix together. And, and I always love when we get to do things together so if there's going to be a lot more."
Dr. Biden held a moment of silence for the community of Surfside in Florida. She also recognized the Navajo leaders in the audience that she met with on her last trip to the state.
"I think you'll see a lot of me and Doug on the road this summer as we're not stopping."
"Right now only about 40% of Arizona, these are fully vaccinated. And that's just not enough."
She noted many clinics don't require an appointment. "You could just stick your kids in the car, you know, with a baggie with treats and say hey, we're going to the vaccination clinic. You can just walk in."
"The time with our loved ones feel so much more precious now that we know it can be lost."
She acknowledged the anniversary of the Yarnell fire where many fire fighters died and noted Cindy McCain and the late John McCain had been at those funerals.
Pool is moving to motorcade.



June 30, 202113:46 MST

FLOTUS/SGOTUS pool report #5 - leaving school and protesters 
FLOTUS and SGOTUS left the school at 1:37 pm.
There were protesters outside. Pool could hear vehicles honking during the speeches.
There were a couple Trump campaign signs and homemade signs that read:"Go home""You are not welcome""Kids don't need their covid vaccine""Trump won"
Motorcade rolling to airport.



June 30, 202114:04 MST

FLOTUS/SGOTUS pool report #6 - leaving airport and headed back to DC 
Motorcade arrived at airport at 1:50 pm.
SGOTUS let FLOTUS board plane first.
Executive One Foxtrot is wheels up shortly from Phoenix, where it is 104 degrees, for JBA.



June 30, 202122:52 EDT

FLOTUS/SGOTUS pool report #7 - back at White House
Executive One Foxtrot was wheels down JBA at 9:30 pm.
Flight back was uneventful with no visitors to the press area.
SGOTUS exited the plane first. Then more staff. Then FLOTUS. FLOTUS and SGOTUS got into separate SUVs.
FLOTUS motorcade peeled away first. SGOTUS is in a separate convoy. Pool is with FLOTUS.
Motorcade arrived back at White House at 10:08 pm after uneventful ride in the rain - lights and sirens the whole way.
Pool did not see FLOTUS exit.
A note on the audience during remarks at the middle school in Phoenix. Pool report #4 said there were Navajo leaders in the audience. Also present were leaders from other tribes. So several tribal leaders were in attendance.
That's a wrap folks. Have a good evening.




  