
    "America is deeply fortunate to have a neighbor like Canada. We have before us the opportunity to build even more bridges, and bridges of cooperation and bridges of commerce. -President Donald J. Trump
CLOSE FRIENDS AND ALLIES: The United States and Canada are enduring allies bound by history, shared values, and an unparalleled partnership. 

Today, President Trump is meeting with Prime Minister Trudeau of Canada to build upon the deep partnership and cooperation between our two nations.
The United States and Canada share the longest international border in the world, maintaining a vital flow of goods, services, and people between our two countries.
The United States and Canada have deep economic ties and a vital trading relationship that will only grow stronger under the new United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement (USMCA).
Canada is a critical partner in advancing democracy, security, and prosperity in the Western Hemisphere and across the globe.

STRENGTHENING VITAL ECONOMIC TIES: The United States and Canada are expanding our strong economic ties and promoting prosperity in both our countries through USMCA.

The United States and Canada enjoy the world's largest and most comprehensive trade and investment relationship, supporting millions of jobs in our two countries.

United States goods and services trade with Canada totaled more than $700 billion in 2018.
Canada was the United States' largest goods export market in 2018 and the largest foreign trading partner for 33 states.
The United States and Canada had more than $844 billion invested in one another's economies as of 2017.


Our two countries' deep economic ties will only become stronger under the new USMCA, which will be the largest trade agreement in history.

USMCA contains the strongest and most comprehensive labor and environmental chapters of any trade agreement ever negotiated.
The agreement is a huge win for American auto workers, as it will generate $34 billion in new investments and 76,000 new jobs in the auto industry across the United States.
The agreement will incentivize the use of high-wage labor in auto manufacturing.
Thanks to USMCA, American farmers and ranchers will have access to an expanded, fairer market to export their goods.



STANDING TOGETHER FOR DEMOCRACY AND SECURITY: The United States and Canada are key allies in supporting security, democracy, and the rule of law.

Canada is a critical partner in advancing security and democracy throughout the world and our troops have fought side by side on numerous occasions.
Our defense arrangements with Canada are more extensive than with any other country.

Our two nations uphold and defend security through the North American Aerospace Defense Command (NORAD) and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO).


Together, we are working to defend human rights in the Western Hemisphere by standing up to the corrupt regimes in Venezuela, Nicaragua, and Cuba.
The United States and Canada are working together to achieve the denuclearization of North Korea.

  