
    Pool Reports by Brian Bennett, Time 



Sent:
Reports:




June 2, 2023 09:42

In town pool report #1 - Brunch lid until 1:30 pm
The White House has called a brunch lid until 1:30 pm.
Note that Biden plans to address the country on the debt limit deal from the Oval Office tonight at 7 pm.
Here's the updated schedule from the White House, sent out last night:
Update:
In the evening, the President will address the nation on averting default and the Bipartisan Budget Agreement. This address in the Oval Office will be covered by the restricted pool.
EDT
7:00 PM THE PRESIDENT addresses the nation on averting default and the Bipartisan Budget Agreement Oval Office Restricted Pool
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE June 1, 2023
 DAILY GUIDANCE AND PRESS SCHEDULE FOR FRIDAY, JUNE 2, 2023
In the afternoon, the President will receive the President's Daily Briefing. The Vice President will attend. This meeting in the Oval Office will be closed press.
In the evening, the President will depart the White House en route to Marine Barracks Washington, Washington, D.C. The departure from the South Grounds and arrival to Marine Barracks Washington will be covered by the in-town travel pool.
Then, the President will attend the Friday Evening Parade at Marine Barracks Washington. The parade will be covered by the in-town travel pool.
Later, the President will return to the White House. The departure from Marine Barracks Washington, Washington, D.C. and the arrival to the South Grounds will be covered by the in-town travel pool.
EDT
9:30 AM In-Town Pool Call Time 
1:45 PM THE PRESIDENT receives the Presidential Daily Briefing; THE VICE PRESIDENT attends  Oval Office  Closed Press
8:10 PM THE PRESIDENT departs the White House en route to Marine Barracks Washington, Washington, D.C. South Grounds  In-Town Travel Pool (Gather 7:55 PM – Palm Room Doors)
8:45 PM THE PRESIDENT attends the Friday Evening Parade at Marine Barracks Washington, Washington, D.C. Marine Barracks Washington, Washington, D.C. In-Town Travel Pool
10:45 PM THE PRESIDENT arrives at the White House  South Grounds In-Town Travel Pool
Briefing Schedule
EDT
2:00 PM Press Briefing by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre 


June 2, 2023 13:53

In town pool report #2 - Press briefing delayed to 2:30 pm
The White House has pushed back the press briefing with White House Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre to 2:30 pm. 


June 2, 2023 14:32

In town pool report #3 - two minute warning to press briefing
[APP Note: No additional text was included in this report.]


June 2, 2023 15:57

In town pool report #4 - dinner lid until 6:30 pm
The White House called a dinner lid until 6:30 pm 


June 2, 2023 18:01

In town pool report #5 - Excerpts of Biden remarks
From the White House:
Excerpts from Remarks as Prepared for Delivery by President Biden on Averting Default and the Bipartisan Budget Agreement
Essential to all the progress we've made in the last few years is keeping the full, faith, and credit of the United States and passing a budget that continues to grow our economy and reflects our values as a nation.
And that's why I'm speaking to you tonight. To report on a crisis averted and what we are doing to protect America's future. Passing this budget agreement was critical. The stakes could not have been higher.
[…]
No one got everything they wanted but the American people got what they needed. We averted an economic crisis and an economic collapse.
We're cutting spending and bringing deficits down. And, we protected important priorities from Social Security to Medicare to Medicaid to veterans to our transformational investments in infrastructure and clean energy. 


June 2, 2023 19:09

In town pool report #6 - remarks begin
Biden's Oval Office remarks began at 7:01 pm. Biden sat behind the Resolute Desk.
Only the print pooler and a still photographer were alllowed into the Oval Office during the live remarks.
As Biden spoke to the cameras, Anita Dunn and Mike Donilon sat in chairs along the wall. Karine Jean-Pierre was also in the room.
Earlier, your pooler saw President Biden walk down the hallway at 6:53 before entering the Oval. 


June 2, 2023 19:21

In town print pool #7 - Biden Oval remarks over
Biden looked at the camera during his remakes and gestured with his hands. When he finished speaking, one person said, "Clear."
Some of Biden's aides clapped. Biden gave a broad smile. Your pooler asked, How are you feeling Mr President?" Biden did not respond or look over as your pooler was being ushered out of the room.
Most of the furniture had been removed from the Oval Office. Two large black canvas covered lights were set up, pointed at the desk.
During the speech, Anita Dunn had a copy of the speech on her lap as Biden spoke and seemed to be following along. She turned the pages carefully and occasionally took notes and made marks with a pen.
Donilon mostly kept his eyes on Biden, while holding a notebook in his lap. 


June 2, 2023 20:40

In town pool report #8 - Departure for Marine Barracks
Biden walked out of the South Portico of the White House and got in the Presidential limo at 8:37 pm.
Motorcade is rolling toward the Marine Barracks in DC. He will view a military parade there tonight. 


June 2, 2023 20:54

In town pool report #9 - arrival at Marine Barracks
After a short, uneventful drive across the National Mall, Biden's motorcade arrived at Marine Barracks at 8:46 pm.
A few people on the sidewalk along the route cheered as the morotcade pulled onto 8th Street.
It's just after sunset. There is a full moon with a crisp outline low in the sky. An audience is in bleachers on the grassy parade ground inside the barracks. We are waiting for the president to walk in to watch the parade
From the White House-
Traveling with the President en route to Marine Barracks Washington, Washington, D.C.:
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations Cara Abercrombie, Deputy Assistant to the President & Coordinator for Defense Policy and Arms Control Travis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director 


June 2, 2023 21:21

In town pool report #10 - greeters at Marine Barracks
At 9:10 pm, President Biden walked into the parade ground with General David Berger, Commandant of the Marine Corps and the commandant's wife Donna Berger.
The Marine band played Hail to the Chief and Biden and the commandant stepped in time to the music as they walked toward the bleachers. Biden was shown to his seat in the front row. He greeted a young girl with a headband and holding a stuffed animal who is seated in the row, and then Biden sat down.
The parade then started. Biden could be seeing tapping his knees with his hands as the band performed.
Before Biden walked in to take his seat, an announcer said, "It is a great privilege for all Marines to have our Commander in Chief President Joe Biden attending our parade this evening as our guest of honor."
From the White House--
Greeting the President upon arrival at Marine Barracks Washington:
General David Berger, Commandant of the Marine Corps Donna Berger, Spouse of General David Berger Colonel Robert Sucher, Commanding Officer of Marine Barracks, Washington, D.C. Sergeant Major Tory Black, Sergeant Major of the Marine Corps Stacie Black, Spouse of Sergeant Major Tory Black 


June 2, 2023 21:29

In town pool report #11 - attendees at Marine Barracks parade
The parade is still going on. Seated next to Biden in the front row is Carlos Del Toro, Secretary of the Navy.
During the program, the announcer introduced the barracks mascot, an English bulldog named Chesty the 16th.
From the White House--
The President is attending the Friday Evening Parade. Attendees Carlos Del Toro, Secretary of the Navy
General David Berger, Commandant of the Marine Corps Donna Berger, Spouse of General David Berger Admiral Michael Gilday, Chief of Naval Operations
Colonel Robert Sucher, Commanding Officer of Marine Barracks, Washington, D.C.
Parade Staff Major Chris Jones, HS Company Commander & Parade Commander Captain Christie Farmer, Communication Officer & Parade Adjutant Captain Richard Tkac, Motor Transport Officer & Flanking Officer Master Sergeant Tyrell Whitcher, Logistics Chief & Senior Swordsman Master Sergeant Steven Williams, Band Operations Chief & Junior Swordsman
Run of Show The Evening Parade Begins "The President's Own" United States Marine Band performs a concert The Marine Battalion Leadership assembles The Marine Battalion forms on the parade deck Presentation of the Colors "The Commandant's Own" United States Marine Band performs a concert The National Anthem The President begins the Pass in Review of the Order of Troops Colonel Robert Sucher introduces Major Chris Jones and parade staff to the President Evening Colors 


June 2, 2023 23:02

In town pool report #12 -- end of parade at Marine Barracks
Pool is holding in vans waiting for Biden to come out of the Marine Barracks.
At one point during the musical performance, the girl in Biden's row began drumming her hands along with the rhythm. Biden looked over at the girl and smiled and pretended to hit a drum with his fist.
After the parade finished, Biden spent several minutes shaking hands with Marines. He took a photo with the Commandant, a line of Marines and Chesty the bulldog. Biden walked out of the parade ground ar 10:36 pm and out of sight of your pooler
The pool was ushered into the vans to wait for Biden to finish his visit to the Marine Barracks, which according to the White House, involved signing a guest book and joining a toast.
From the White House--
Participating in the signing of the Marine Barracks Guest Book with the President:
General David Berger, Commandant of the Marine Corps Colonel Robert Sucher, Commanding Officer of Marine Barracks, Washington, D.C. Also from the White House --
The President is participating in a toast to the Marines who have sacrificed in the service of their country. 


June 2, 2023 23:07

In town pool report #13 - departing Marine Barracks
Biden's motorcade left the Marine Barracks at 11:04 pm. Driving back to the White House.


June 2, 2023 23:14

In town pool report #14 - arrival at White House
Biden's motorcade arrived at the South Portico of thr White House at 11:10 pm. Your pooler coukd not see Biden enter the White House. 


June 2, 2023 23:16

In town pool report #15 - lid
The White House called a lid.
Good night all. 



\r\n
  