
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate four individuals and appoint two individuals to serve in his Administration:
The President intends to nominate Lisa E. Epifani, of Texas, to be Assistant Secretary of Energy (Congressional and Intergovernmental Affairs). Ms. Epifani currently serves as Special Assistant to the President for Economic Policy at the National Economic Council. Prior to this, she served as Counsel at the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee. Earlier in her career, she served as Senior Legislative Counsel in the Office of Congressional and Intergovernmental Affairs at the Department of Energy. Ms. Epifani received her bachelor's degree from the University of Texas and her JD from Yale Law School.
The President intends to nominate Gracia M. Hillman, of the District of Columbia, to be a Member of the Election Assistance Commission, for the remainder of a four-year term expiring 12/12/09. Ms. Hillman currently serves as a Member of the Election Assistance Commission. Prior to this, she served as President and Chief Executive Officer of the WorldSpace Foundation. Earlier in her career, she served as Senior Coordinator for International Women's Issues at the Department of State and served as Executive Director of the League of Women Voters of the United States.
The President intends to nominate Gail Dennise Mathieu, of New Jersey, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Namibia. Ms. Mathieu, a member of the Senior Foreign Service, currently serves as Director of the Office of Technical Specialized Agencies in the Bureau of International Organization Affairs at the Department of State. Prior to this, she served as Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Niger. Earlier in her career, she served as Deputy Chief of Mission in Accra, Ghana. Ms. Mathieu received her bachelor's degree from Antioch College and her JD from Rutgers University.
The President intends to nominate Harry K. Thomas, Jr. of New York, to be Director General of the Foreign Service and upon confirmation appoint him Chairman of the Board of the Foreign Service at the Department of State. Mr. Thomas, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, currently serves as Special Assistant to the Secretary and Executive Secretary of the Department of State. Prior to this, he served as Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the People's Republic of Bangladesh. Earlier in his career, he served as Director of the National Security Council. Mr. Thomas received his bachelor's degree from the College of the Holy Cross.
The President intends to appoint Bonnie McElveen-Hunter, of North Carolina, to be Chairman of the Board of Governors of the American National Red Cross, for a term of three years.
  