
    WASHINGTON, DC – Today, President Barack Obama announced his intent to appoint the following individuals to key Administration posts:
•      Kenny Alameda – United States Commissioner, Commission for the Conservation and Management of Highly Migratory Fish Stocks in the Western and Central Pacific Ocean
•      Joye Frost – Director of the Office for Victims of Crime, Department of Justice
•      Marlene Sallo - Staff Director, United States Commission on Civil Rights
•      Robert Wolf – Member, President's Export Council
•      Steve Bennett – Member, President's National Security Telecommunications Advisory Committee
•      Angel Ruiz – Member, President's National Security Telecommunications Advisory Committee
President Obama said, "I am grateful that these talented and dedicated individuals have agreed to take on these important roles and devote their talents to serving the American people. I look forward to working with them in the coming months and years."
President Obama announced his intent to appoint the following individuals to key Administration posts:
Kenny Alameda, Appointee for United States Commissioner, Commission for the Conservation and Management of Highly Migratory Fish Stocks in the Western and Central Pacific Ocean
Kenny Alameda is the President and Owner of Clipper Oil Company, a position he has held since 1984. He was also the President of Cape Fisheries Holdings from 2001 to 2002. He served as the General Manager of Tuna Clipper Marine from 1980 to 1992. Mr. Alameda was Vice President and Partner at Morris Whaley, Inc. from 1980 to 1990, Vice President at Bumble Bee Seafoods from 1978 to 1980, and Vice President for Tuna Procurement at Sun Harbor Industries from 1977 to 1978. He was a Manager at Van Camp Seafood Company from 1975 to 1977 and Assistant Fleet Manager at Westgate California Foods from 1971 to 1975. Mr. Alameda has served on several boards, including Industry Advisor to the Inter-American Tropical Tuna Commission, Director of Pacific Tuna Development Foundation, and Director of the American Tuna Research Foundation. He was a member of the Board of Directors of the United States Tuna Foundation and an Industry Delegate to the United States State Department for Indonesian/United States Tuna Development Project. Mr. Alameda received his B.S. from San Diego State University.
Joye Frost, Appointee for Director of the Office for Victims of Crime, Department of Justice
Joye Frost is the Deputy Director of the Office for Victims of Crime (OVC) in the Office of Justice Programs at the Department of Justice. She has been performing the duties of the OVC Director since January 2009. Ms. Frost has worked at OVC since 1997, previously holding the titles of Principal Associate Director and Program Specialist. From 1995 to 1997, she was a Social Work Associate for the Department of Veterans Affairs. Prior to this, she worked at U.S. Army headquarters in Heidelberg, Germany as a Manager for the Family Support Branch from 1990 to 1993, and from 1988 to 1989, she worked at the Army Community Service Center in Mainz, Germany as a Family Services Coordinator. She received a B.A. from the University of Texas at Austin and an M.S. from the University of Mary Hardin-Baylor.
Marlene Sallo, Appointee for Staff Director, United States Commission on Civil Rights
Marlene Sallo is currently Special Assistant at the United States Commission on Civil Rights, a position she has held since 2011. Previously, Ms. Sallo worked at the National Council of La Raza as a Juvenile Justice Policy Fellow from 2010 to 2011. From 2008 to 2010, Ms. Sallo was an attorney and trainer at the Children's Law Center with the University of South Carolina School of Law. From 2007 to 2008, Ms. Sallo worked as an attorney on the Education Team for Disabilities Rights Florida. Prior to that, she was a trial attorney at Harbsmeier & DeZayas, L.L.P. from 2006 to 2007 and a senior trial attorney at the Florida Department of Children & Families from 2005 to 2006. She is a Commissioner with the American Bar Association (ABA) Commission for Youth at Risk and a web editor for the ABA Children's Rights Litigation Committee. Ms. Sallo received a B.A. from Manhattanville College and a J.D. from Florida State University College of Law.
Robert Wolf, Appointee for Member, President's Export Council
Robert Wolf is CEO of 32 Advisors, a consulting and advisory firm he founded in 2012. Previously, he was Chairman of UBS Americas and President of UBS Investment Bank. Prior to becoming Chairman, he held a number of positions since 1994, including Group Regional CEO, COO of UBS Investment Bank, Global Head of Fixed Income, and Chair of the firm's Diversity Committee. From 1985 to 1994, he was Vice President at Salomon Brothers. He served on the President's Council on Jobs and Competitiveness from 2011 to 2013, the President's Economic Recovery Advisory Board from 2009 to 2011, and the Homeland Security Advisory Council's Border Infrastructure Task Force in 2012. He serves on the Undergraduate Executive Board of the Wharton School, and on the boards of the Robert F. Kennedy Center for Justice & Human Rights and the Partnership for NYC. He is also a member of the Council on Foreign Relations, and from 2007 to 2010, was on the Board of Directors of the Financial Services Roundtable. Mr. Wolf received a B.S. in Economics from the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania.
Steve Bennett, Appointee for Member, President's National Security Telecommunications Advisory Committee
Steve Bennett is President and CEO of Symantec, a global software company that offers information security, storage and systems management products. From 2010 to 2013, he served on Symantec's Board of Directors, serving as Chairman from 2011 to 2013. From 2000 to 2007, he was President and CEO of Intuit, a software company that provides products and services to support small business operations. Mr. Bennett joined Intuit after a 23-year career at General Electric, where he held management roles in various segments within the company, including GE Capital e-Business, GE Capital Vendor Financial Services, and GE Electrical Distribution and Control. He currently serves on the boards of American Airlines and AMR Corporation, the American Airlines parent company. Mr. Bennett received a B.S. from the University of Wisconsin.
Angel Ruiz, Appointee for Member, President's National Security Telecommunications Advisory Committee
Angel Ruiz is Head of Region North America at Ericsson, a global telecommunications equipment and services provider. Mr. Ruiz first joined Ericsson in 1990 and has held a number of sales and managerial positions, including Executive Vice President and General Manager for Cingular Key Account and Vice President and General Manager for Ericsson's BellSouth (now AT&T) Key Account. Prior to joining Ericsson, Mr. Ruiz was the Senior Product Manager at Alcatel from 1988 to 1990, the Supervision Engineer and Senior Project Manager for Network Planning at Sprint from 1984 to 1988, the Engineering Supervisor for Non-switched Fixed Network, Special Services for AT&T from 1983 to 1984, and the Engineering Supervisor for Special Services for Bell Atlantic from 1980 to 1983. Mr. Ruiz received a B.S. from the University of Central Florida and an M.A. from John Hopkins University.
  