
    President Bush to Nominate Seven and Appoint One to Serve in His Administration
President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate seven individuals and appoint one individual to serve in his administration.
The President intends to nominate J. Anthony Holmes to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Burkina Faso. A career member of the Senior Foreign Service, he has been the Director of the Economic Policy staff in the Bureau of African Affairs since September 1999. Previously, Holmes was the Chief of the Economic Section in Stockholm, where he occasionally served as Charge d'Affairs and Acting Deputy Chief of Mission. His other past assignments include service as Deputy Director of the Office of Economic Sanctions Policy in the Bureau of Economic and Business Affairs, and Chief of the Economics Section in Harare and Singapore, and Economic Officer in Nairobi and Damascus.
The President intends to nominate W. Scott Railton to be a Member of the Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission for the remainder of a six-year term expiring April 27, 2007. Railton has been a Partner with the Virginia law firm of Reed Smith, LLP, since 1977, where he specializes in safety and health matters. From 1972 to 1977, he served as Chief Counsel at the U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission. He is a graduate of the University of Washington and George Washington University Law School.
The President intends to nominate Earl A. Powell III, as a Member of the National Council on the Arts, for the remainder of a six-year term expiring September 3, 2006. He has served as Director of the National Gallery of Art in Washington, DC since 1992, and he was previously the Director of the Los Angeles County Museum of Art. Powell earned a bachelor's degree from Williams College and a Master's degree and Ph.D. from Harvard University.
The President intends to nominate Nancy C. Pellett to be a Member of Farm Credit Administration Board for the remainder of a six-year term expiring May 21, 2008. Ms. Pellett is currently President of Premium Quality Foods, Inc. She also serves as a member of the Cattlemen's Beef Board and the National Cattlemen's Beef Association. Ms. Pellett earned a bachelor's degree from Iowa State University.
The President intends to nominate Rebecca Dye to be a Commissioner of the Federal Maritime Commission for the remainder of a five-year term expiring June 30, 2005. Ms. Dye is currently Counsel to the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee for the U.S. House of Representatives, a position she has held since 1995. From 1987 to 1995, she worked as Minority Counsel for the Merchant Marine and Fisheries Committee, in the U.S. House of Representatives. Ms. Dye received both a bachelor's degree and law degree from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill.
The President intends to nominate Donna N. Williams as Member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for National and Community Service, for the remainder of a five-year term expiring October 6, 2006. Ms. Williams is currently the Business Development Director for the South Central Region of the Parsons Transportation Group Inc. She was previously the Program Manager for the Dallas Office of the Parsons Corporation. Ms. Williams has a Bachelor of Science degree in Mechanical Engineering from Prairie View A & M University.
The President intends to nominate William A. Schambra as Member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for National and Community Service, for the remainder fo a five-year term expiring September 14, 2006. He has been Senior Vice President of the Lynde and Harry Bradley Foundation since1992. From 1990 to 1992, Schambra served at the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, first as Director of the Office of Policy, Planning, and Legislation for the Office of Human Development Services, and then as Deputy Executive Secretary. He has Ph.D. in Political Science and a M.A. degree in Political Science from Northern Illinois University, and a B.A. degree from James Madison College.
  