
    President Carter today announced the appointment of a nine-member Commission to review previous studies of the military compensation system and to recommend changes to current pay and benefit programs.
The President's Commission on Military Compensation will be chaired by Charles J. Zwick, a former director of the Bureau of the Budget and now a Florida banker. It will submit a report to the President by March 15, 1978.
Studies to be reviewed include those of the Defense Manpower Commission and the Third Quadrennial Review of Military Compensation.
The President ordered the fresh review of pay, benefits, and the military retirement system since previous attempts to provide an equitable and efficient total military compensation system failed to achieve general agreement.
For example, in April 1976 the Defense Manpower Commission recommended that the members of the Armed Forces be paid in the form of a fully taxable salary, while the Third Quadrennial Review of Military Compensation concluded last winter that members should continue to be paid through a modified pay and allowances system. Similarly, the various reviews of military retired pay each came up with a different approach.
President Carter said he expects the Commission to resolve these differences and to propose one integrated, long-term solution to military compensation. He expects the solution to be fair to the taxpayers of the United States as well as members of the Armed Forces.
The members of the Commission are:
CHARLES J. ZWICK, Miami, Fla.--Chairman, director, Southeast Banking Corp.; former Director of the Bureau of the Budget
LT. GEN. BENJAMIN O. DAVIS, USAF, retired, Arlington, Va., former Commander, U.S. Forces Korea; and Chief of Staff, UN Command
GEN. WILLIAM E. DEPUY, Fort Monroe, Va., Commander, U.S. Army Training and Doc. trine Command
THOMAS EHRLICH, Washington, D.C., President, Legal Services Corporation; former dean, Stanford Law School; Special Assistant to Under Secretary of State
JOHN H. FILER, Hartford, Conn., chief executive officer, Aetna Life and Casualty; former Connecticut State senator
PHILIP A. ODEEN, Lake Forest, Ill., vice president, Wilson Sporting Goods; former Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense (Systems Analysis); and Director of Program Analysis, National Security Council
WALTER N. PAGE, Huntington, L.I., N.Y., president, Morgan Guaranty Trust Go.; director, Foreign Policy Association; and trustee of the Carnegie Institution
JANE P. PFEIFER, Armonk, N.Y., Vice President, Communications, IBM Corp.; trustee, Rockefeller Foundation
HERBERT F. YORK, La Jolla, Calif., professor of physics, University of California at San Diego; former Director of Defense Research and Engineering
  