
    "We are protecting the freedoms of law-abiding Americans, and we are going after the criminal gangs and cartels that prey on our innocent citizens." – President Donald J. Trump
TAKING ACTION TO COMBAT ILLEGAL IMMIGRATION: For too long, politicians across the country have failed to enforce the immigration laws already on the books.

Just months in office, President Donald J. Trump is keeping his promises to the American people and taking action to enforce our country's immigration laws.

President Trump's policies have already had an impact, with 64 percent fewer apprehensions and inadmissible entries at the southwest border compared to the same time last year.


In the first 100 days after President Trump signed Executive Orders on immigration enforcement, Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) has seen nearly 40 percent more Enforcement and Removal Operations compared to the same time last year.

Nearly 75 percent of these illegal aliens have been convicted criminals with offenses ranging from homicide and assault to sexual abuse and drug-related charges.
Arrests of convicted criminal aliens climbed by nearly 20 percent in this time compared to the same time last year.


In fiscal year 2017, ICE has removed 2,798 criminal gang members, compared to 2,057 criminal gang members in all of fiscal year 2016.

ICE has specifically targeted MS-13 criminal gang members for removal on immigration violations.


President Trump has acted to strengthen the country's ability to enforce the laws and stop illegal aliens at the border:

He has directed the hiring of 5,000 additional Border Patrol agents and 10,000 ICE agents.
He has ordered the construction of a wall on the southern border and prioritized funds in his budget to begin its construction.



SUPPORTING LEGISLATION TO ENFORCE OUR LAWS: President Trump is supporting legislation in Congress that begins to address sanctuary cities and aliens who repeatedly enter our country in violation of our laws.

President Trump supports the passage of the No Sanctuary for Criminals Act (H.R. 3003).

According to a recent Harvard-Harris poll, 80 percent of Americans support ending the practice of sanctuary cities that refuse to turn over criminal illegal aliens to Federal authorities.
Under the bill, States and localities that refuse to follow Federal law and that prevent law enforcement officials from cooperating with Federal authorities will no longer receive certain grants from the Departments of Justice (DOJ) and Homeland Security (DHS).
Instead, States and localities that adhere to Federal law will see grants shifted towards them.
The Secretary of Homeland Security can refuse to transfer illegal aliens in DHS custody to authorities that refuse to cooperate with Federal immigration authorities.


President Trump supports the passage of Kate's Law (H.R. 3004).

The law is named after 32-year-old Kate Steinle, who, according to law enforcement officials, was gunned down in broad daylight allegedly by a 5-time deported criminal illegal alien with seven prior felony convictions.
The law would increase the mandatory penalties for illegal aliens who re-enter the United States to up to two years in Federal prison.
Illegal aliens who re-enter the United States are eligible to up to 25 years of Federal prison.
In his efforts to help the victims of these crimes, the President ordered the creation of the Department of Homeland Security's Victims of Immigration Crime Engagement (VOICE) office so the victims of the criminal acts of illegal aliens will no longer be ignored.



A PROMISE TO THE AMERICAN PEOPLE: While running for President, Donald Trump promised the American people that he would bring law and order back to our broken immigration system.

As a Presidential candidate on August 31, 2016, President Trump said:

"We will end the sanctuary cities that have resulted in so many needless deaths. Cities that refuse to cooperate with Federal authorities will not receive taxpayer dollars, and we will work with Congress to pass legislation to protect those jurisdictions that do assist Federal authorities."
"Countless innocent American lives have been stolen because our politicians have failed in their duty to secure our borders and enforce our laws."
"Now is the time for all of us, as one country, Democrat and Republican, liberal and conservative, to band together to deliver justice and safety and security for all Americans.



  