
    Prime Minister Abe. It is indeed a great pleasure that I am able to convene this summit meeting of three countries: Japan, U.S., India. Three countries.
I think we three countries are the foundation of the peace and the prosperity of the region. Free and open Indo-Pacific is something that we would like to strive toward, and I'd like to have closer coordination among three countries going forward.
Donald and Prime Minister Modi, I thank you for your cooperation to enable this summit meeting.
Now, please, Donald.
President Trump. Well, it's a great honor to be here and with my 2 very good friends. We've gotten to know each other very well over the last short period of time. And you and I are going to be meeting separately after this meeting.
Prime Minister Modi. Yes.
President Trump. But, Prime Minister Modi, thank you very much. And congratulations on your great victory.
Prime Minister Modi. Thank you.
President Trump. I should say congratulations, really, to both, because Shinzo also had a great victory—[laughter]—a great electoral victory. So congratulations to both of you on the tremendous numbers, tremendous success, and tremendous popularity.
You're doing a great job for your countries. And I'll see you in a little while. I look forward to it.
Prime Minister Abe. Thank you very much.
Prime Minister Modi. I won victory in the Presidential election of LDP.
And, Prime Minister Modi.
Prime Minister Modi. I am very grateful to you that you have congratulated me for my victory in the elections. Japan, America, and India: JAI, J-A-I. Jai, in Hindi, means "victory."
We are three countries that support democracy, and we met last time in Argentina, and we had the opportunity to meet once again. This new forum—this forum of ours has received a new impetus, and there is a new faith and confidence in our relations. And I am sure that we'll have meaningful discussions during our meeting.
We have common interests in the area of Indo-Pacific. We would like peace and stability in this region. We are committed to democracy, and therefore, we would like a peaceful development and security in this region.
America's dream has been to make America great again. And, in Japan, they have worked on the basis of Abenomics to take Japan to new heights. And India has called for collective efforts: inclusive growth with the trust—[inaudible]—and "Make in India." All our three countries have contributed in some way to the journey towards development in the world. I'm very grateful to you for hosting this meeting.
Thank you very much.
India-U.S. Trade Relations 
Q. Mr. President, are you going to talk about trade with Prime Minister Modi?
Q. Will you talk about trade with Prime Minister Modi?
President Trump. We'll be talking trade. We'll be talking about trade.
Q. Will you be talking about Iran?
Japan-U.S. Relations 
Q. On the Japan auto tariffs, will you go ahead with the tariffs on the Japan automakers?
President Trump. We have a lot of things to talk about. It will be very positive.
Q. Will you be seeking——
President Trump. We have a lot of very positive news.
President Trump's Meeting With Prime Ministers Abe and Modi 
Q. Will you be seeking assurances from Japan and India about Iran?
The President. We have a lot of things to talk about. Okay?
Thank you.
  