
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to appoint two individuals to serve in his administration:
The President intends to appoint Brigadier General David Franklin Wherley Jr. of the District of Columbia, to be Commanding General of the Militia of the District of Columbia. Mr. Wherley currently serves as Acting Commanding General of the District of Columbia Air National Guard where he previously served as Commander of the 113th Wing. Prior to this, he served as Deputy Commander for Operations (Fighters) for the 4404th Provisional Wing, on the Prince Sultan Air Base, Saudi Arabia. From March 1989 to November 1995, Mr. Wherley served as Commander of Detachment 1, Headquarters, for the District of Columbia Air National Guard/201st Airlift Squadron. Earlier in his career, Mr. Wherley served as Commander for the 121st Tactical Fighter Squadron and as Flight Safety Officer for the National Guard Bureau. He earned his bachelor's degree from Fordham University and his master's degree from the University of Maryland.
The President intends to appoint Colonel Errol Ricardo Schwartz of Maryland, to be Adjutant General of the Militia of the District of Columbia. Mr. Schwartz currently serves as Commander of the 74th Troop Command for the District of Columbia National Guard and as Information Assurance Senior Executive for the National Security Agency. He previously served as Director of Logistics, HQ: DARC, where he also served as Deputy Director of Information Management. From 1996 to 1998, Mr. Schwartz served as Battalion Commander for the 372nd Military Police Battalion. Earlier in his career he served as Executive Officer for the 372nd Military Police Battalion and as Military Police Investigation Officer for the 260th Military Police Command. Mr. Schwartz earned his bachelor's degree from the University of the District of Columbia. He earned his first master's degree from the Central Michigan University and a second master's degree from the National Defense University.
  