
    "There's never been a better time to hire in America, to invest in America, and to start living the American Dream." – President Donald J. Trump 
A BOOMING ECONOMY: Just 6 months after President Donald J. Trump signed the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act into law, the American economy is booming and confidence is soaring.

President Trump's tax cuts have revitalized the American economy, with 54 percent of Americans now rating the economy as good or excellent, the highest ever recorded by CNBC. 
Businesses are bringing money held overseas back to the United States.

In the first quarter of 2018, more than $300 billion was repatriated back to the United States, setting a new record high, according to the Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA). 


Optimism among employers has reached historic highs in the 6 months since the tax cuts.

Manufacturer optimism has reached its highest level in the 20-year history of the National Association of Manufacturers survey. 
Small business optimism stands at its second-highest level on record since the National Federation of Independent Business began its survey 45 years ago. 


The economy looks poised to continue its winning streak, with many economists expecting second quarter GDP growth to exceed 4 percent. 

A WIN FOR AMERICAN WORKERS AND FAMILIES: American workers and families have seen some of the biggest benefits from President Trump's tax cuts.

Americans are seeing more money in their paychecks following President Trump's cuts.

More than 6 million American workers have received a bonus as a result of the tax cuts. 
In the first 3 months of 2018, nominal hourly compensation for workers grew at its fastest rate in at least a decade. 


Nearly two-thirds of Americans believe now is a good time to find a quality job, according to Gallup. 
The unemployment rate has fallen to 3.8 percent, matching the lowest level in nearly 50 years. 
Job openings reached a record high of 6.7 million in April 2018, topping the number of job seekers for the first time on record. 
Families are benefiting from lower utility bills, as 30 million Americans in at least 30 states have had their utility bills cut as a result of the tax cuts. 
American workers can expect to see even more gains moving forward, as employers plan to hire more workers and boost compensation according to recent surveys. 

CRITICS' PREDICTIONS FALL FLAT: The positive results of President Trump's tax cuts are proving the alarmist opponents flat-out wrong. 

The dire predictions by critics of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act simply do not match up with the incredible results seen over the last 6 months. 
House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-CA) referred to the bill to "Armageddon." 
Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer (D-NY) claimed, "what has been sold as a job creator and wage booster will, of course, do little of either." 
The day after President Trump's election, the liberal columnist and economist Paul Krugman said, "we are very probably looking at a global recession, with no end in sight." 

  