
    Today, Congresswoman Debbie Dingell released the following statement endorsing Joe Biden for President of the United States:
"I've known Joe Biden for years, and I can say – without any hesitation – that Joe is the fundamentally honest, decent, and inclusive leader we need right now in the White House. Like so many Michiganders who've been impacted by this coronavirus pandemic, whether it's through losing a job or a loved one, Joe knows what it's like to get knocked down – and he has the empathy and strength to help us all get back up and recover.
"I'll work tirelessly to help Joe win Michigan because there's so much at stake in this election. We need to pull everyone together, and I said I would support who my district voted for in the Presidential primary. The 12th District nominated Joe Biden and it's never been more important to pull people together as it is now. During the past three years, Donald Trump has said one thing and done another – he's tried to rip away our health care, undermine union rights, and made it easier to ship good-paying American jobs overseas. We must hold Donald Trump accountable and build a better future for all Michigan families – and that starts by electing Joe Biden this November."
Congresswoman Dingell joins more than 100 prominent Michigan leaders supporting Biden, including Biden for President National Co-Chair Governor Gretchen Whitmer, Senator Debbie Stabenow, Senator Gary Peters, Lieutenant Governor Garlin Gilchrist II, Attorney General Dana Nessel, former Governor Jennifer Granholm, former Michigan Senator Carl Levin, Congresswoman Brenda Lawrence, Congressman Andy Levin, Congresswoman Elissa Slotkin, Congresswoman Haley Stevens, Detroit Mayor Mike Duggan, and additional state legislators, mayors, and leaders from across Michigan.
Nationally, Biden for President has previously announced more than 3,000 endorsements from national, state, and local leaders, including current and former U.S. senators and representatives, governors, state elected officials, community leaders, and national security professionals.
  