
    Today, Biden for President announced key staff hires in North Carolina and Nevada, including former staff for North Carolina Governor Roy Cooper and the Nevada State Democratic Party.
L.T. McCrimmon, NC State DirectorL.T. McCrimmon will be joining the campaign from Governor Roy Cooper's office, where she serves as Deputy Legislative Director. McCrimmon previously served as Political Director for Deborah Ross for Senate. Ms. McCrimmon worked on Capitol Hill for five years for former Congressman Bob Etheridge (D-NC) as a legislative assistant. She is a native of Scotland County, holds two bachelor's degrees in Political Science and Criminal Justice from Shaw University and a Master of Public Administration from North Carolina Central University.
Maggie Thompson, NC State Advisor and Chief of StaffMaggie Thompson was most recently the North Carolina State Director for Elizabeth Warren's campaign for President and is currently serving on the Education Unity Task Force for the Biden campaign. She is the former Executive Director of Generation Progress, the youth engagement arm of the Center for American Progress. Prior to that, Maggie worked as an appointee in the Obama Administration at the White House Council on Environmental Quality, and in the office of the Director at U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services. Maggie worked for then-Sen. Barack Obama starting in 2007 during the Nevada caucus. She graduated with a degree in economics and classical archaeology from Macalester College.
Scott Falmlen, NC Strategic AdvisorScott Falmlen is a co-founder of Nexus Strategies, the leading Democratic political consulting firm in North Carolina. He has helped coordinate and execute strategic planning, communications, and outreach for political efforts at the local, state and federal levels. Falmlen previously served as the executive director of the North Carolina Democratic Party and the Florida Democratic Party. In its most recent rankings, Campaigns & Elections magazine named Falmlen one of the top ten political influencers in North Carolina. Scott Falmlen received a Bachelor of Arts in Political Science with Minors in Business and History from Georgetown College.
Yvanna Cancela, NV Senior AdvisorYvanna Cancela represents Nevada's 10th district in the State Senate, a seat she has held since 2016. During the 2020 Presidential Caucus, she served as the senior advisor for the Nevada Biden for President Campaign. Previously, Cancela worked as the political director of UNITE HERE's Local 226, the Culinary Workers Union; the state's largest labor union with 60,000 members.
Alana Mounce, NV State DirectorAlana Mounce most recently was the Executive Director of the Nevada State Democratic Party. She previously worked for DNC Chair Tom Perez and for the Clinton campaign in Colorado. She has worked on political and presidential campaigns in Nevada, Colorado, Virginia, and Alaska.
Shelby Wiltz, NV Coordinated DirectorShelby Wiltz most recently was the Caucus Director for the NV Dems and planned and executed the Nevada 2020 presidential caucus. In 2018, Shelby was the Field Director for the NV Dems and has previously worked on the Clinton Campaign in 2016 and in other states like Iowa, Pennsylvania, Virginia, and New Hampshire.
Shelby and Alana led the NV Dems team to historic wins in 2018 by helping flip six out of seven statewide seats from red to blue. This year under very challenging circumstances they led the NV Dems to hold a successful presidential caucus.
  