
    Today, Vice President Mike Pence led a discussion with the chief executives of approximately 50 States, territories, and the city of Washington, DC, and the White House Coronavirus Task Force to update our Nation's governors on local, State, and Federal COVID-19 response and recovery efforts, and America's reopening, with a focus on supporting America's small businesses and workforce development.
Vice President Pence led a discussion of best practices from our Nation's governors on reopening their States and communities in a phased-approach including efforts to support small businesses and workforce development, expanding testing, supporting long-term care residents and healthcare workers, and increasing healthcare capacity. As some states last week acknowledged case increases and indicated their containment, Vice President Pence encouraged governors to provide updates on those situations. Secretary of Health and Human Resources Alex Azar provided an update on CDC support in those states. Small Business Administration Administrator Jovita Carranza and Senior Advisor to the President Ivanka Trump provided an update to governors on the Administration's efforts to support America's small businesses and workers. Unprecedented Federal support for small businesses across the country saved tens of millions of jobs through the Paycheck Protection Program and other CARES Act support. White House Coronavirus Task Force Coordinator Dr. Debbie Birx provided an overall data and trends update and Rear Admiral John Polowczyk provided an key resources logistics update for governors, followed by a report from U.S. International Development Finance Corporation's (DFC) CEO Adam Boehler on the DFC's efforts to bolster investment in the United States. Participants discussed the significant surge in testing capacity across the Nation. Governors discussed best practices to support small businesses and workers – for example Governor Brad Little of Idaho discussed his back-to-work bonuses program for Idahoans returning to work.
Since January 2020, the Trump Administration has led over 309 briefings – including 25 governors' briefings – with over 129,000 State, local, and Tribal participants.
  