
    Mr. General Secretary and all of our distinguished guests:
Mr. Brezhnev, it is a very great honor for me to welcome you on your first visit to the United States. It was just a year ago that we met in Moscow, and on that occasion we entered into a number of agreements that changed the relationship between our two great countries in a very profound way.
What has happened since those agreements have been entered into, and the preparations that have been made over many, many months, the correspondence that we have had, and other meetings, lead me to conclude that this year at the summit in Washington, we will not only build on the foundation that we laid last year but that we have the opportunity to make even greater progress than we made last year toward the goals that we share in common--the goals of better relations between our two governments, a better life for our people, the Russian people, the American people, and above all, the goal that goes beyond our two countries, but to the whole world, the goal of lifting the burden of armaments from the world and building a structure of peace.
As you know, Mr. General Secretary, these television cameras mean that fight now millions in America and millions in the Soviet Union are seeing us as we appear together and as we speak.
I could also add that not only are the Russian people, the Soviet people, and the American people watching but all the world is watching as we meet on this occasion, because the people of the world know that if the leaders of the two most powerful nations of the world can work together and their governments can work together, the chance for a world of peace is infinitely increased.
The hopes of the world rest with us at this time in the meetings that we will have. I am confident, Mr. General Secretary, that in our meetings this week we shall not disappoint those hopes.
We wish you a good stay in our country, but above all, on this, which is a trip of such great significance to our two peoples and to the world, we trust that at the end, not only the Soviet people and the American people but the people of the world will look on this event as a great step forward in the goal we all want: not only peace between our two countries but peace and progress for all the people of the world.
  