
    At the invitation of His Majesty King Juan Carlos, the President of the United States Jimmy Carter paid an official visit to Spain on June 25-26.
During the visit the President of the United States held conversations with His Majesty the King. President Carter also had meetings with the President of the Government, Mr. Suarez, and with members of the Spanish Government.
President Carter's visit is the first by a President of the United States to democratic Spain. Accepting the Spanish King's invitation, the President is returning visits to his country by His Majesty and by the President of the Spanish Government.
During the conversations between President Carter and His Majesty the excellent level of the close and friendly relations between the two countries was noted with satisfaction as were the harmonious points of view on various foreign policy subjects.
The two Chiefs of State expressed their concern with regard to the tensions existing in various parts of the world and set forth their desire and their intention to contribute in all appropriate ways to the reestablishment of peace and stability in those regions.
President Carter congratulated His Majesty on the favorable evolution of the Spanish democratic process which has earned the sincere support of the entire free world and for Spain's return to its proper place in the concert of nations. For its part the Spanish side expressed its appreciation for the work carried out by the United States in support of human rights and the cause of peace.
The international scene, with particular reference to the crises in Iran and Afghanistan and the situation in the Middle East, and bilateral relations were examined in President Carter's meeting with the President of the Spanish Government, Mr. Suarez. During these conversations, which were held within the framework of the consultations and contacts taking place among Western leaders, it became evident once again that Western solidarity constitutes one of the main principles of democratic Spain's foreign policy and that Spain will join its efforts with those of the other Western countries in the pursuit of peace and stability for all peoples.
In these contacts President Carter said he was pleased at progress toward Spain's entry into the European Community, which will reinforce Western solidarity and will complete the construction of a stronger and more united Europe.
Both leaders expressed the hope that the balanced development of the Madrid conference would permit the creation of a climate favorable to dialogue and cooperation, that it would favor the reestablishment of mutual confidence and make it possible to advance on the road toward detente and peace.
President Carter expressed his satisfaction for the important work that Spain is carrying out as host to the CSCE meeting in Madrid.
Both statesmen examined ways to strengthen Western solidarity in the face of the serious threat represented by Soviet aggression in Afghanistan. They examined the significance of the Soviet announcement of the withdrawal of some forces from Afghanistan and reaffirmed that only the total withdrawal of Soviet troops and guarantees for non-alignment and respect for the freedom of the Afghan people to express their political desires constitute the necessary elements for a definitive solution to the conflict.
President Carter expressed his understanding of Spain's role in its relations with the Arab world and of President Suarez' efforts in his international contacts and his trips to the Middle East. The two leaders expressed their common desire to contribute to a just and peaceful solution to the problems of the region.
President Carter expressed his appreciation and that of all the American people for Spain's support and activities on behalf of the prompt liberation of the American hostages being illegally held in Iran.
The President of the Spanish Government stated that Spain will continue its actions to support the international effort for the favorable solution of the problem.
The two Presidents agreed that respect for international law is indispensable for the proper conduct of international relations and for the solution of the present crisis.
President Carter described the results achieved in the recent Venice Summit. In view of the concern shared by both governments regarding the world energy crisis and its negative economic and social effects, President Carter showed his willingness that Spain cooperate in and benefit from research and development into alternate energy sources in which the United States is making an important effort.
The two statesmen agreed in the opinion on the threat which terrorism constitutes for the peace, stability and progress of today's world.
In the field of bilateral matters the two Presidents expressed pleasure at the state of our relations and set forth their satisfaction at the favorable attitude of both parties toward the search for a contractual framework for future relations between both countries, which will take account of Spain's new political circumstances.
The two sides examined the state of economic relations between the two countries and expressed their intention to maintain this trend, while, at the same time, striving to end the present imbalance in their commercial exchanges.
  