
    I was disappointed by the Supreme Court ruling in the King v. Burwell case. But that decision is not the end of the fight against ObamaCare.
This fatally-flawed law imposes job-killing mandates, causes spending in Washington to skyrocket by $1.7 trillion, raises taxes by over a $1 trillion and drives up health care costs. Instead of fixing our health care system, it made the problems worse.
As President of the United States, I would make fixing our broken health care system one of my top priorities. I will work with Congress to repeal and replace this flawed law with conservative reforms that empower consumers with more choices and control over their health care decisions.
Here is what I believe: We need to put patients in charge of their own decisions and health care reform should actually lower costs. Entrepreneurs should be freed to lower costs and improve access to care — just like American ingenuity does in other sectors of the economy.
A few specifics:

ObamaCare has proven that Washington cannot impose a one-size-fits-all fix for our health care problems. Instead, we should empower states to implement local, accountable solutions that work for their citizens.
Having a pre-existing condition should not mean patients have to worry about keeping their coverage or getting the care they need. We need a conservative solution that works for those patients.
I want to protect every American against catastrophic medical expenses — no one should lose their life savings due to an illness or accident.
Health care should be more responsive and easier to navigate through transparency, innovation, and accountability in the health care system.
Individuals should get tax relief for their premiums and their care. That will help make health coverage portable, helping Americans who change jobs or start their own businesses.
We should also strengthen employers' ability to offer more choices at lower costs. We need to make care more affordable for small businesses. This involves better data on prices and outcomes, flexibility for employers promoting wellness programs, and the ability to offer more innovative benefit designs.


Americans deserve leadership that can actually fix our broken health care system, and they are certainly not getting it now from Washington, DC.
  