
    As polls close in the final two contests, Democratic leaders from across the country pledge their votes to Obama
Chicago, IL - With polls now closed in the final two contest of this historic race for the Democratic nomination, 26.5 superdelegates pledged their votes for Barack Obama at the Democratic National Convention in Denver. The superdelegates hail from every region of the country and every level of the Democratic Party leadership.
Arizona
Congresswoman Gabrielle Giffords said:
"Now that all primaries and caucuses have concluded, I am enthusiastically endorsing Senator Barack Obama as the Democratic nominee for President of the United States. Since the outset of this historic race for the White House, I have been impressed by the intellect and patriotism of both Senator Hillary Clinton and Senator Barack Obama. They have demonstrated the passion and wisdom to move our nation towards a brighter future. I respect and admire both of them.
"Every state has had a chance to vote and Barack Obama has emerged with more support. In becoming a delegate for him, I recognize his inspiring and thoughtful leadership that brought him to the finish line. I am proud to join Governor Janet Napolitano and millions of voters throughout the country in supporting Barack Obama as the next President of the United States. I agree with his policy priorities and his commitment to create a cooperative and bipartisan era in American politics. In states large and small, Barack Obama has shared his hope, optimism, and vision of what is possible. Americans from all walks of life see in him someone who can truly change our nation. I do as well."
Arizona Democratic Party Chair Don Bivens said:
"Now that our historic season of caucuses and primaries is behind us, it is time for each superdelegate to choose between two outstanding candidates. For me, that choice is Senator Barack Obama. He is an extraordinary leader, with the ability to bring people together across party lines to solve problems. That is exactly what our country needs right now, a pragmatic change of direction.
"I congratulate Senator Clinton on her hard-fought campaign. She is a true leader and an inspiration to millions. I am confident she will act to unite our party, and our country, behind our party's chosen candidate for President."
California
DNC Member Christine Pelosi said:
"Barack Obama has captured the majority of the popular delegates from caucuses and primaries from sea to shining sea. Barack Obama has the vision, ideas and values needed to bring positive change to our lives, from economic justice to energy independence to an end to the Iraq war and care for our veterans. As an activist dedicated to participatory democracy, I am thrilled that tens of millions of voters and tens of thousands of volunteers have participated in this Democratic nomination and breathed new life intro our democracy. I have great respect for our other presidential candidates, particularly Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, who has proved herself to be a champion for working families."
DNC Member Rachel Binah said:
"The people have spoken and I look forward to working with all my energy and enthusiasm for a man who I believe will make an extraodrinarily wonderful president. His environmental record is unparallelled and he has a sensitivity to the issues of our time."
DNC Member John Perez:
"Now that the primary season has come to a close, I officially endorse Senator Barack Obama for President. I believe that now is the time for us to come together and unite for victory against John McCain in the fall. Senator Obama has run an extraordinary, forward-looking campaign focused on hope, unity and our shared values as Democrats. I am confident that he will bring our party and all Americans together as our nominee and as President."
Congressman Sam Farr said:
"Tonight, after the polls close, the presidential primary for the Democratic candidates will have run its course. Although Hillary Clinton has won many of the big blue states and energized her voters, Barack Obama has won the nomination. After the final ballot has been cast tonight, I will officially endorse Barack Obama as the Democratic candidate for the presidency.
"Barack is an exciting new leader in American politics. He will work to end the war in Iraq, he will tackle domestic issues that have been neglected for years and he will help repair our battered reputation abroad. I look forward to working with him to bridge the current political divide and address the problems that face our country."
Congressman Bob Filner said:
"I take great pride in announcing my support for Senator Barack Obama as the next President of the United States. As Chairman of the House Veterans Affairs Committee, I look forward to fighting alongside Senator Obama to correct eight years of neglect of our nation's heroes--working for real gains for America's veterans!"
Congressman Jerry McNerney said:
"Senator Obama represents hope for the future. He has inspired legions of young people who will energize our nation and help bring about the kind of change necessary to turn the incredible threats we face into opportunities.
"Given my background in wind energy, I am excited that Senator Obama has an appreciation for how to create clean, sustainable, family wage jobs in renewable energy. He also knows how important it is to use America's greatest asset, innovation, to put America ahead of the rising energy costs with new energy technology including both efficiency and new sources of energy."
Colorado
Governor Bill Ritter said:
"I'm proud to pledge my support to Sen. Barack Obama to become the next President of the United States of America," Gov. Ritter said. "Sen. Obama offers a strong sense of hope and promise for our country's future. His success at inspiring people from all walks of life, his commitment to the need for education and health-care reform, and his sense of independence and purpose make him appealing to Coloradans and other Westerners. He understands the promise of a New Energy Economy, of opportunity for all, of building a strong economy for our children. He is the best person to help Americans and Coloradans achieve their God-given potential, and I am proud to endorse him."
Florida
DNC Member Michell Ceasar said:
"Senator Obama is the clear delegate leader and I believe it is now time to focus on the general election and to prevent John McCain from providing a third Bush term."
Congressman Ron Klein said:
"I will be casting my ballot at the Democratic National Convention for Senator Barack Obama. Senator Obama is the kind of leader that comes along only once in a generation. He has the unique ability to move our country forward, past the petty partisan politics that so many of us have grown so weary of, and his vision is a breath of fresh air. I believe he will serve our nation ably and well, and am proud to support his candidacy. With my vote at the convention comes a commitment to reach out to voters in South Florida throughout the general election season.
"The primary is now behind us, but we still have a critical task ahead. All of us, supporters of Senator Obama and Senator Clinton alike, must come together and stand united as a force for change in this nation. Americans will have a stark choice this November: a choice between a continuation of the failed policies of the current administration, or a fresh start. We must stand together, with one voice, and call for a fresh start on Iraq, on health care, on education, and on developing clean, affordable renewable energy. These issues are too important to focus on what divides us. We must now focus on what unites us as Democrats, and on the general election this fall."
Georgia
Georgia State Labor Commissioner Michael Thurmond said:
"This campaign has been one of the closest most hard fought contests in the history of our nation. Senator Obama and Senator Clinton have demonstrated their commitment to the changes that are badly needed in this country and their ability to lead America forward. Now that the primary and caucus season has concluded, the time has come for us to unify the party and throw our complete support behind Senator Barack Obama in order to win the November election. I am impressed by his vision, intellect, and his unique ability to attract new voters to the Democratic column."
Kansas
President of the National Federation of Democratic Women Helen Knetzer said:
"The American people have endured enough in the past seven and a half years from this Republican Administration and the United States is in desperate need of a leader who realizes our economic and international challenges. This has been a long and hard-fought primary and both Senators Clinton and Obama have shown the ability to lead us in this country, but today we must put our differences aside in a united effort to ensure that we win in November. I'm pleased to endorse Barack Obama."
Louisiana
DNC Member Patsy Arceneaux said:
"I believe that it is time to put aside divisive politics and to unite as Democrats looking forward to a victory in November and the hope of real change in America."
Maine
DNC Member Sam Spencer said:
"My decision, in part, is based on the fact that Senator Obama has won a majority of pledged delegates (which I believe is the most important measurement) and has attained a majority of all delegates. Senator Obama was the majority winner of Maine's caucuses. Senator Obama is the Democratic winner of the nomination. Senator Obama is an extraordinary candidate and has inspired Democrats in Maine and across the country to show their support in record numbers. Now we must work to sustain this momentum into the national election to take back the White House."
Maryland
Congressman John Sarbanes said:
"I am excited to join in expressing my strong support for Barack Obama, who I believe will be an outstanding president. Now that the votes have been cast and the primary season has come to its close, I am pleased to play a part in ratifying the decision of the voters in my district and across the country. Moving forward, the importance of unifying the party behind one candidate is vital and Democrats in the Third District, the State of Maryland, and the nation are quickly turning their focus to electing Senator Obama as our next President."
Michigan
Congressman Bart Stupak said:
"This has been an historic presidential primary election with phenomenal interest in our Democratic candidates. With the conclusion of today's South Dakota and Montana primaries, all Americans have had an opportunity to make their voices heard at the ballot box. Now that the nation's last primary ballot has been cast and an agreement has been reached to seat Michigan's delegates at the Democratic National Convention, I am proud to pledge my support to Senator Barack Obama's candidacy for President of the United States.
"I am confident that Senator Obama will provide the leadership necessary to improve our economy, protect our Great Lakes, provide health care for all Americans, and put an end to the war in Iraq. I have invited the Senator to campaign with me in northern Michigan and share his vision for change with the people of the First Congressional District.
"One issue has been resoundingly clear throughout this primary process: Americans do not want four more years of the same failed policies that have driven our country deeper into debt and tarnished our reputation in the world. Senator Obama will provide the change we need to get our country back on track to prosperity and prominence."
Missouri
Missouri Democratic Party Vice Chairwoman Yolanda Wheat said:
"This primary season has been truly historic. The Democratic Party has produced two extraordinary candidates, either of whom would make a great president. I strongly believe that now is the time for us as Democrats to unite behind our nominee, Senator Barack Obama. In November we have a chance to make this a better country for our children and our children's children. My respect and admiration for both Senator Clinton and Senator Obama has grown throughout this election process. I am endorsing Senator Barack Obama for President today because I believe that his leadership will bring about the profound change that this great country so rightly deserves. I hope all Democrats, regardless of whom they have supported until this time, will unite behind Senator Obama's vision of hope and opportunity for all Americans."
Nevada
Nevada Democratic Party Chair Sam Lieberman said:
"I am proud to endorse Senator Barack Obama for president of the United States. Sen. Obama knows the challenges we face in the West and will work to stop the Yucca Mountain nuclear waste dump, create a better water plan and spur the development of renewable energy throughout the West. Together, we will engage multiple generations of Democrats to reform our health care system, end the war in Iraq and put our country's economy back on track, especially for working families and seniors who need relief. Senator Obama recognizes that our diversity is our strength, and that is key in a rapidly changing state such as Nevada. Sen. Obama will be the catalyst who helps Democrats Win in the West and throughout Nevada."
Nevada Attorney General Catherine Cortez Masto said:
"It is now time for the Democratic Party to unite behind one candidate. Through a unified Party we will defeat John McCain in November. I look forward to working with Senator Obama to create positive change for the citizens of Nevada and the United States."
New Jersey
Congressman Rush Holt said:
"Barack Obama has a remarkable life story, has run a stirring campaign, and has offered an inspiring vision and an impressive strategy to bring about much-needed change in our nation. His successes in the primaries suggest that we can rise above cynicism and bigotry in America, and I am honored to offer my endorsement and support. Like millions in New Jersey and across the country, I have great hopes for an Obama Administration that will restore people's faith in their government and strengthen America's reputation for constructive actions abroad. I look forward to working in Congress with a President who will end our combat involvement in Iraq, invest in education, and enhance the role of science in his Administration and in society at large."
North Carolina
DNC Member Muriel Offerman said:
"Barack Obama has spoken to America in a way that has drawn so many new voters who are excited about the real change he will bring to Washington. Now that the primaries are over, it's time for Democrats to unite in taking on John McCain."
DNC Member David Parker said:
"Senator Obama's plans for strengthening America's economy reflect his insight and empathy for all the people of this country. In this era of economic and environmental challenge, we are all simply Americans pulling together to strengthen our country— regardless of region, race, gender, wealth or any other qualification. Senator Obama's leadership at the head of the Democratic ticket will help Democrats in North Carolina, including Kay Hagan, our Democratic candidate for US Senate. I look forward to his campaigning actively in North Carolina during the fall campaign."
Oklahoma
DNC Member Jay Parmley said:
"The race for the 2008 Democratic Presidential nomination has been historic. We have had two superbly qualified candidates, unprecedented numbers of newly registered voters and across the board near-record to record turnouts in primaries and caucuses. As an automatic delegate to the 2008 Democratic National Convention, it was always my hope that Democratic voters across America whose votes determine the proportional make up of the pledged delegates to the DNC Convention would select the nominee of our Party. I believe they have done so, even if by the narrowest of margins.
"I will cast my vote at the DNC Convention for Senator Barack Obama. Senator Obama has brought thousands of new people into the political process and his campaign and election will restore people's confidence in their government.
"Our task as a party is great. Our country is in crisis. Voters have a clear choice in November. Will we end the war in Iraq, fix our ailing economy, and provide much needed quality healthcare to all our citizens? These questions can only be answered affirmatively by electing a Democratic President. The fight for the Democratic nomination has been intense and now comes to a close. Our goal as Democrats is victory in November and that can only be accomplished if we come together in support of Senator Obama."
Oregon
Oregon Secretary of State Bill Bradbury said:
"Senator Obama has the vision and commitment to bring people together. This country needs a lot of repair and Barack Obama will be well-suited to accomplish that."
Oregon Democratic Party Vice Chairman Frank Dixon said:
"I am announcing my decision as one of Oregon's twelve automatic delegates to the Democratic National Convention to support U.S. Senator Barack Obama of Illinois for President of the United Sates.
"I have waited until the end of this race to announce my decision out of respect for Senator Hillary Clinton, her campaign staff and passionate supporters who have made this closely contested primary an historic contest. No primary has drawn this kind of interest and participation from so many voters in so many states.
"In my view both candidates are capable of winning the election and becoming a great President. I can find no compelling reason not to represent the voters of Oregon who overwhelmingly chose Senator Obama. I do find many reasons to help bring this primary contest to a conclusion so that the Democratic Party may now focus on unity and the hard work necessary to elect our federal and state candidates."
Pennsylvania
DNC Member Ian Murray said:
"I am now, after much thought and consideration, supporting Barack Obama for the presidency of the United States and will be voting for him at the convention in Denver. I have been a strong supporter of Hillary and Bill Clinton since 1991, having chaired and run Bill Clinton's 1992 and 1996 campaigns in Erie County. I have continued until this time to endorse with all my heart the candidacy of Hillary Clinton. She has been a true champion of the Democratic ideals that are so important to voters of Northwestern Pennsylvania. It is clear to me though that Barack Obama has the required votes for nomination at the convention in Denver. Barack Obama's message of change and his positions on health care, the Iraq war, the environment, the economy, and other issues vital to the Democratic Party have resonated with record numbers of voters including young voters, independents, and like-minded Republicans. I have been involved in running campaigns in Northwestern Pennsylvania since 1972, this epic contest between Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton has fortified in me the vitality of the Democratic Party and its hopes and vision for our future. I pledge all my support, my heart, and my passion for Barack Obama and will be working night and day in the coming days and weeks to bring the Obama and Clinton camps together and unify in Northwestern Pennsylvania as we begin our quest for that which all our futures and health depend, the election of Barack Obama."
Virginia
Executive Director of the Virginia AFL-CIO Jim Leaman said:
"After a historical battle through every primary and caucus Senator Obama leads in elected pledged delegates to the Democratic National Convention. As a previous uncommitted delegate to the Democratic National Convention, I would like to pledge my support to Senator Barack Obama to be the Democratic nominee for President of the United States. I believe that Senator Obama is the right person, in the right place and at the right time to change politics in Washington from strict partisan warfare to one of jointly solving America's problems. For me, Senator Barack Obama represents a new generation of leadership that will have to solve our problems in health care, social security, education, the environment, jobs, national security and the economy in the upcoming decade. The time has come to unite as democrats and turn our focus and attention to winning back the White House in November."
  