
    CHARLESTON, SC – Today, Tim Scott released a video, "Truth," highlighting his first month on the campaign trail including his Fox News Hannity Town Hall, joining The View, the attacks from the left, and his campaign announcement.
WATCH HERE
"As I continue to campaign, I see voters are starving for a message filled with optimism and anchored in faith in America. I feel the momentum growing as I connect with more voters — the size of my audience, the enthusiasm continues to go higher. People are responding to the message of restoring hope and creating opportunity for all Americans, and that's why I am the candidate that the Left fears the most." – Tim Scott
TRANSCRIPT: 
Tim Scott: "We are not defined by the color of our skin, we are defined by the content of our character and if anyone tells you any different they are lying."
Brian Kilmeade: "The fact that Tim Scott has an optimistic view of race relations in America seems to have the former president really upset."
Trey Gowdy: "Barack Obama thinks we will forever be chained to the racism of our past, and Tim Scott really thinks we are a good country that can become a great country."
John Roberts: "This is what Joy Behar said about Senator Tim Scott."
Joy Behar: "He's like Clarence Thomas. Black Republican who believes in pulling yourself by your bootstraps. Rather than to me understanding the systemic racism that African Americans and other minorities face in this country. He doesn't get it."
Tim Scott: "One of the reasons I'm on this show is because of the comments that were made on the show. That the only way for a young African American kid to be successful in this country is to be the exception and not the rule. That is a dangerous, offensive, disgusting message to send."
Kayleigh McEnany: "It was phenomenal what Senator Scott did. He came locked and loaded with facts. He came across good natured, charming, but strong."
Tim Scott: "If you work hard, you have integrity and you have grit. All things are possible in today's America."
Jason Chaffetz: "The reason they don't like a Senator Tim Scott. Senator Scott has a positive message. He's about Opportunity Zones. He's also really good on school choice. That's a direct threat to Joe Biden, Barack Obama, and Kamala Harris."
Tim Scott: "I'm the candidate the far left fears the most. I threaten their control. The truth of my life disproves their lies."
  