
    Pool Reports by Ashley Parker, The Washington Post 



Sent:
Reports:




June 12, 202110:09

Travel pool report #1
Your pool picked up President Biden at Treggena Castle at 10:06 a.m. BST, and we are now rolling to Carbis Bay for this morning’s opening session of the G-7. We did not see Biden.
Your pool has been tested for covid — twice! — this morning, and we are happy to report everyone is virus free.



June 12, 202110:17

Travel pool report #2
Your pool split from the motorcade at 10:11 a.m. BST, dropping President Biden off at his first G-7 session of the day in Carbis Bay.
Police lined the road on the short, windy drive here, and a smattering of people stood on their balconies, snapping photos.
We again did not glimpse Biden, and are now holding in the vans until about 2:45 p.m. BST, when Biden has his first and only bilat of the day, with French President Emmanuel Macron.



June 12, 202111:54

Travel pool report #3 — Putin 
Passing along from a White House official:
While we are still finalizing the format for the meeting with President Putin and his delegation, we can confirm a few details, including the plan for both a working session and a smaller session, as well as a solo press conference by President Biden following the meeting.
We expect this meeting to be candid and straightforward and a solo press conference is the appropriate format to clearly communicate with the free press the topics that were raised in the meeting—both in terms of areas where we may agree and in areas where we have significant concerns.



June 12, 202115:36

Travel pool report #4 — Bilat spray 
At approximately 3 p.m. BST, the U.S. and French pools were escorted into a brief spray before the bilat between President Biden and French President Emmanuel Macron in Carbis Bay.
The two leaders were seated outside in chairs against an aquamarine beach backdrop, with three tiny succulents on the small table between them.
***It was windy, and your pool did not catch everything, so please check against any official transcript.***
As the pool was ushered in, Biden offered pleasantries, commenting on the scenic backdrop: "The sun is shining, we're on this beach, I'm well," Biden said. "And I'm with the president of France, that makes me even feel better."
Biden added that he and Macron had enjoyed a good couple of days so far, and that he'd had some time with President Macron to get to know him better.
Macron, citing the challenges of the coronavirus pandemic and climate change, said that "for all these issues, what we need is cooperation." He added that it is "great" to have a U.S. president who is willing to cooperate.
"The United States, I've said before, we're back," Biden said. "The U.S. is back."
Biden also praised the "cohesion of NATO."
As the pool was ushered out, we asked Biden if he has, in fact, convinced allies that America is back.
Biden, sunglasses in hand, gestured to Macron and said, "Ask him."
The pool then repeated the question, to which Macron replied, "Definitely."
Biden then ignored shouted questions about Putin and his upcoming summit in Geneva.
Secretary of State Antony Blinken was also spotted in the back of the scrum.
The pool was originally limited to just six members, but the U.S. team successfully pushed for the full pool to join the spray, which your pool appreciated.



June 12, 202116:55

Travel pool report #4b 
Here is a slightly longer and more complete quote from French President Emmanuel Macron at the top of the bilat:
"We have to deal with this pandemic, covid-19…climate change. For all these issues what we need is cooperation. And I think it's great to have a U.S. president part of the club, and willing to cooperate. And I think that what you demonstrate is that leadership is partnership."




June 12, 202117:12

Travel pool report #4c — correction 
Correcting this Macron quote, to add a "very" — see below. (H/t the AP's Darlene Superville).
"We have to deal with this pandemic, covid-19…climate change. For all these issues what we need is cooperation. And I think it's great to have a U.S. president part of the club, and **very** willing to cooperate. And I think that what you demonstrate is that leadership is partnership."




June 12, 202120:21

Travel pool report #5 
At 8:04 p.m. BST, your pool glimpsed the Red Arrows flyover at the beach at Carbis Bay from the parking lot where we've been holding since the end of President Biden's with French President Emmanuel Macron. The nine planes left the sky streaked with long streams of red, white, and blue, and passed over the beach several times in various formations. The entire flyover/aerial show lasted for about 10 minutes.
This is not technically a movement, since we are still in the parking lot — a bit removed from Biden — but seemed as good a time as any to check in with some miscellaneous details:
*The bilat, which began around 3 p.m. BST, lasted for just over an hour, ending a little after 4 p.m. BST.
*Per the schedule, after the bilat, Biden attended a fourth G-7 session, and posed for a "Family Photo" on the beach with G-7 members and guest countries. The pool, however, remained in the van/parking lot hold.
*This evening, there is what has been described as "Beach BBQ" for the G-7 guests.



June 12, 202120:44

Travel pool report #6 
?Your pool wrapped into President Biden’s motorcade at 8:41 p.m. BST and we are now rolling back to Tregenna Castle in St. Ives.



June 12, 202120:53

Travel pool report #7 — lid 
?Your pool dropped President Biden off at Tregenna Castle at 8:46 p.m. BST, and we have a lid.




  