
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
June 13 [x]1
The President announced his intention to appoint Abraham H. Foxman, Jay Mazur, and Aletta Schaap to the U.S. Holocaust Memorial Council.
June 14
In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC, from San Diego, CA, arriving after midnight.
June 15
In the afternoon, the President attended the final round of the U.S. Open golf tournament at Congressional Country Club in Bethesda, MD.
June 16
In the evening, the President attended a book release party for former Texas Land Commissioner Garry Mauro at the Willard Hotel.
June 17
In the morning, the President met with President Kiro Gligorov of the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia in the Oval Office to discuss a wide range of bilateral and regional issues.
June 18
In the afternoon, the President met with Crown Prince Hassan bin Talal of Jordan in the Oval Office to review the Jordan-U.S. bilateral relationship and developments in the Middle East.
The President announced his intention to nominate Louis Caldera to serve as Managing Director and Chief Operating Officer for the Corporation for National and Community Service.
June 19
In the morning, the President met in the Oval Office with Gary Trew and Seamus McNeill, two teachers from Northern Ireland who are the first winners of the "President's Prize" for efforts to promote cross-community understanding.
Later, the President traveled to Denver, CO. In the evening, he attended a host committee reception at a private residence in Cherry Hills, CO.
The President announced the designation of James J. Hoecker as Chairman of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission.
The President announced his intention to appoint Ruby G. Moy as Staff Director of the U.S. Commission on Civil Rights.
June 20
In the morning, the President had a telephone conversation with President Fernando Cardoso of Brazil from the Presidential Suite at the Brown Palace Hotel.
In the afternoon, the President met separately with President Jacques Chirac of France and Prime Minister Romano Prodi of Italy in the Onyx Room at the Brown Palace Hotel.
In the evening, the President attended a reception with G-8 leaders in the Courtyard of the Governor's Mansion. Later, he attended a dinner with the leaders in the Music Room of the Phipps Conference Center.
  