
    President Bush to Nominate One, Appoint One and Designate Two to Serve in His Administration
President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate one individual, his intention to appoint one individual and his designation of two individuals to serve in his administration.
The President intends to nominate Aurelia E. Brazeal to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia. She has served as the Dean of the State Department's Leadership and Management School and Dean of the Senior Seminar at the National Foreign Affairs Training Center since June 2000. She has served as the Dean of the Senior Seminar since 1998. Brazeal was Deputy Assistant Secretary of State in the Bureau of East Asia and Pacific Affairs from 1996 to 1998, Ambassador to Kenya from 1993 to 1996, and Chief of Mission in Kolonia from 1990 to 1993. Her previous assignments include service in the Office of Japanese Affairs, the Office of Development and Finance in the Bureau of Economic and Business Affairs and the Bureau of Western Hemisphere Affairs and as Economic/Commercial Officer in Tokyo. Brazeal earned a bachelor's degree from Spelman College and a Master's degree from Columbia University.
The President intends to appoint Joseph B. Gildenhorn to be a Member of the Board of Trustees of the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars for the remainder of a six-year term expiring October 23, 2006, and upon appointment, he will be designated as Chairman. Gildenhorn served as U.S. Ambassador to Switzerland from 1989 to 1993. He is currently a Partner with JBG Companies, a real estate development and management company in Washington, D.C.
The President has designated Deanna Tanner Okun of Idaho as Chairman of the United States International Trade Commission for a two-year term. Okun has served as Vice Chairman of the International Trade Commission since 1999. Before her appointment, she was counsel for international affairs to Senator Frank Murkowski.
The President has designated Jennifer Anne Hillman as Vice Chairman of the International Trade Commission. Hillman has served as a Commissioner of the International Trade Commission since 1998. Before her appointment, she served as General Counsel for the United States Trade Representative.
  