
    Memorandum for the Heads of Departments and Agencies:
The right of all employees of the federal government to join and participate in the activities of employee organizations, and to seek to improve working conditions and the resolution of grievances should be recognized by management officials at all levels in all departments and agencies. The participation of federal employees in the formulation and implementation of employee policies and procedures affecting them contributes to the effective conduct of public business. I believe this participation should include consultation by responsible officials with representatives of employees and federal employee organizations.
In view of existing policy relating to equal employment opportunity, management officials will maintain relationships only with those employee organizations which are free of restrictions or practices denying membership because of race, color, religion, or national origin. Further, such officials shall refrain from consultation or relationships with organizations which assert the right to strike against or advocate the overthrow of the government of the United States.
Further steps should be explored fully and promptly. We need to improve practices which will assure the rights and obligations of employees, employee organizations and the Executive Branch in pursuing the objective of effective labor-management cooperation in the public service. I know this is not a simple task. The diversity of federal programs, the variety of occupations and skills represented in federal employment, the different organizational patterns of federal departments and agencies, and the special obligations of public service complicate the task of formulating government-wide policy guidance. Nevertheless, this important subject requires prompt attention by the Executive Branch. With that objective in mind, I am designating a special task force to review and advise me on employee-management relations in the federal service, composed of the following officials:
The Secretary of Defense
The Postmaster General
The Secretary of Labor
The Director of the Bureau of the Budget
The Chairman of the Civil Service Commission
The Special Counsel to the President
The Secretary of Labor will serve as Chairman of this task force. This study will cover the broad range of issues relating to federal employee-management relations, including but not limited to definition of appropriate employee organizations, standards for recognition of such organizations, matters upon which employee organizations may be appropriately consulted, and the participation of employees and employee representatives in grievances and appeals. In the course of this study employees and employee organization representatives, department and agency officials, consultants in labor-management relations, and interested groups and citizens shall be given an opportunity to present their views for the consideration of the task force. In view of the need for decisions on this important issue at a reasonably early date, I am asking the task force to report their findings and recommendations to me not later than November 30, 1961.
All department and agency heads and their staffs are directed to cooperate fully with the task force in the accomplishment of this study.
JOHN F. KENNEDY
  