
    The following listing includes the President's daily schedule and other items of general interest as announced by the White House Press Office during the period covered by this issue. Events and announcements printed elsewhere in the issue are not included.
June 4
The President returned to the White House after a weekend stay at Camp David, Md.
June 5
The President met at the White House with:—Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs;—Secretary of Labor F. Ray Marshall and a group of Senators to discuss labor law reform;—the Cabinet.
In a ceremony in the Oval Office, the President received diplomatic credentials from Ambassadors W. S. Karunaratne of the Republic of Sri Lanka, Jose Miguel Barros of Chile, and Jose Rafael Echeverria of Costa Rica.
The President attended a fiscal year 1980 Federal budget issues meeting in the Cabinet Room at the White House.
The President greeted guests at a performance of the Costa Rican National Youth Symphony Orchestra held on the South Grounds of the White House.
June 6
The President met at the White House with:—Dr. Brzezinski;—Adm. Stansfield Turner, Director of Central Intelligence, Hamilton Jordan, Assistant to the President, and Dr. Brzezinski.
June 7
The President met at the White House with:—Dr. Brzezinski;—Frank B. Moore, Assistant to the President for Congressional Liaison;—the Democratic congressional leadership;—Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan of New York.
June 8
The President met at the White House with:—Dr. Brzezinski;—Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance, Secretary of Defense Harold Brown, Gert. David C. Jones, USAF, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Dr. Brzezinski, and Senators John C. Stennis of Mississippi and John H. Chafee of Rhode Island;—a group of State Democratic Party chairmen;—President Leopold Sedar Senghor of Senegal;—Mrs. Carter, for lunch;—Mr. Moore.
The President and Mrs. Carter hosted a picnic for members of the White House staff on the South Grounds of the White House.
The President attended a reception for members of the Democratic National Committee in the East Garden at the White House.
June 9
The President met at the White House with:—Vice President Walter F. Mondale, Secretaries Vance and Brown, Dr. Brzezinski, and Mr. Jordan;—Mr. Moore;—Egyptian War Minister Muhammad 'Abd al-Ghani al-Jamasi;—a group of editors and news directors (transcript will be printed next week).
The President attended a meeting on the fiscal year 1980 Federal budget in the Cabinet Room at the White House.
The President left the White House for a weekend stay at Camp David, Md.
  