
    Concord, NH – Kicking off his first trip to the Granite State since announcing his presidential campaign, Governor Steve Bullock met with voters in Concord to talk about the issues that matter most to them.
Here's what voters are reading and seeing in the news: 
Accompanied by State Senator Dan Feltes, Governor Bullock toured Concord's Market Days to introduce himself to voters.
Watch: Governor Bullock meets with voters in Concord and talks with WMUR's Adam Sexton

Voters reacted to meeting the Governor for the first time:
"I liked the way he shook hands and asked me questions — that's curiosity, and people like that…I think anyone has a chance right now."
"Bullock brings a resume that few of the other candidates have, which is that he is a Democrat who has won elections in a very red state.Governor Bullock also sat down with WMUR's Adam Sexton to talk about why he entered the race later than some other candidates: he was busy working to secure healthcare for nearly 100,000 Montanans by reauthorizing Medicaid expansion.

""If I had to choose between chasing 100,000 donors or actually providing 100,000 people health care, saving that health care, it's the easiest choice I'd ever make."
Governor Bullock spoke with Jack Heath on "NH Today" about winning and governing in a Trump state.
LISTEN: NH Today – Governor Steve Bullock of Montana, candidate for POTUS
Key Quotes:"I was up for reelection in 2016. Donald Trump took Montana by 20 points — I won by four. So 25-30% of my voters voted for Donald Trump, and if we don't win back some of the places that we lost in 2016, it's going to be that much harder to beat him next November."
"And it's not just about winning. In doing that I've held onto my values. I have a Republican legislature but we've been able to get good things done — everything from healthcare for 100,000 Montanans to freezing college tuition [and] making record investments in college tuition, and getting dark money out of our elections."Governor Bullock also sat down with the Concord Monitor, where he elaborated on how he has worked with Republicans to get things done without ever compromising on his values:
Concord Monitor: Presidential hopeful Steve Bullock campaigns during city's annual festival
Key Quotes:"Compromising with Republicans doesn't mean compromising progressive values, said Bullock, who claimed to hold the record for most vetoes in Montana state history and have never failed to protect public lands, women's reproductive rights, collective bargaining rights and voting rights."
"'People want government to actually work,' said Bullock. 'A lot of people talk about it, and Washington, D.C., has become a place where talking has become a replacement for actually doing. I am the one who's actually done it.'"
On Twitter:





  