
    The United States of America and the Russian Federation confirm our commitment to Afghanistan becoming a peaceful, stable, democratic, neutral and economically self-sufficient state, free of terrorism and narcotics, recognizing that further significant international support will be needed to achieve this goal.
We take note of the significant contribution to strengthening international stability which has resulted from the successful implementation of the arrangements between the U.S. and Russia and between Russia and NATO on ground and air transit. In accordance with these arrangements, over 320 flights have been carried out, and over 41,000 personnel and over 9,000 rail containers of valuable cargo have been transported in support of operations in Afghanistan. We are considering the possibility of expanding this cooperation by increasing the volume of ground transit.
We unwaveringly follow our common obligations in the fight against the narcotics threat coming from the territory of Afghanistan, which is undermining our shared and global security. The June 9-10 International Forum "Drug Production in Afghanistan" provided an opportunity to discuss cooperation to counter this threat. We reaffirm that the Counternarcotics Working Group of the U.S.-Russia Presidential Commission is an important tool, and express our commitment to expanding cooperation, with an emphasis on interdiction of channels for the delivery of narcotics and chemical precursors for their production (including by preventing their diversion, pursuant to UN Security Coucil Resolution 1817); activating information sharing; and reducing illicit financial flows linked to the regional drug trade. We will explore the possibility of establishing counternarcotics cooperation between the Collective Security Treaty Organization (CSTO) and International Security Assistance Force (ISAF). We support a comprehensive approach for resolving the issue of decreasing the volume of narcotics grown in Afghanistan, including by providing farmers with alternatives to poppy cultivation as a means of subsistence and providing continuous assistance to Afghan-Government-led counternarcotics efforts, including agriculture development, interdiction, demand reduction and eradication, as well as corresponding public information.
We confirm the need for law enforcement cooperation and express our readiness to assist the Afghan Government to strengthen the effectiveness of the work of counternarcotics law enforcement authorities, including by taking part in their training and equipping. We intend to develop various training programs for counternarcotics service officials of countries in the region under the auspices of the NATO-Russia Council, including use of the Russian Ministry of Interior's (MOI) All-Russia Institute for Raising Staff Qualifications in Domodedovo. Within the framework of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE), we will jointly review the possibility of implementing in Central Asian countries a series of projects to train Afghan border officials.
We support the establishment of American-Russian cooperation in the interest of social-economic development of Afghanistan, in particular in the area of restoration and reconstruction of assets having key significance for the Afghan economy.
We reaffirm our support for the Afghan Government's plans under the program of national reconciliation and reintegration to offer an honorable place in Afghan society to those who have decided to renounce violence, participate in building a free and open society and respect the Afghan Constitution, cut ties with al-Qaeda and other terrorist groups, and are prepared to pursue their political goals peacefully.
We are committed to further enhancing the regime of sanctions provided for by UN Security Council Resolution 1267 and successor resolutions. Toward this goal, we will carefully review each candidate for delisting from the consolidated sanctions list on an individual basis. We also intend to add new names of specific individuals to the consolidated list on the basis of existing criteria.
We welcome the planned transition of responsibilities for maintaining security in Afghanistan to the Afghan National Security Forces. Achieving this goal requires raising the level of their operational capability to such an extent that they will be able to independently defend their country against internal and external threats. We affirm the need for international support to strengthen the potential of the Afghan National Security Forces. In this context, Russia and the United States are working on the possibility of assisting Afghan security forces by supplying Russian-made helicopters and spare parts.
  