
    New Television Ad Touts New Mexico's Status as Leading State for Environmental Preservation
SANTA FE, NM - Governor Bill Richardson has begun airing a new television ad in Iowa focusing on his environmental record and highlights how New Mexico moved faster than any other state to promote renewable energy and fight global warming.
To view the ad, please go to http://action.richardsonforpresident.com/cleanenergy
"We've made New Mexico the clean energy state," says Richardson in the television commercial. "As president, I'll make us the clean energy nation."
"Governor Richardson has done more than any other candidate for president to pass wide-ranging comprehensive measures to protect the environment," said campaign manager Dave Contarino. "This ad shows the depth of his record and commitment to fighting global warming in a serious, substantive fashion."
Under Governor Bill Richardson, New Mexico has started requiring utility companies to produce energy from renewable sources. The state has invested directly in energy efficiency and is promoting renewable energy with tax credits for using wind, solar, and biofuels. Bill Richardson also led the effort to eliminate taxes on hybrid cars.
"Governor Richardson has the most aggressive environmental protection plan of anyone running for president," said Contarino. Within twelve years, Richardson's plan would reduce global warming pollution by 20 percent, lower demand for oil by fifty percent, and push fuel economy standards to 50 miles per gallon. By the year 2040, Bill Richardson's plan would require that 50 percent of the United States electricity be generated from renewable sources and would reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 80 percent.
The League of Conservation Voters praised Governor Richardson's proposals as the most aggressive plan of any candidate for president, saying "Richardson sets the highest goals for reducing global warming pollution and increasing production from renewable energy sources." Sierra Club President Carl Pope said Governor Richardson's plan "raised the bar" in the fight against global warming, and is "much more aggressive than anything we've seen so far from the candidates. It is also significantly better elaborated...."
The campaign is introducing the new commercial in Iowa while continuing to run the widely heralded "Job Interview" TV ads. The campaign's commercials were produced by Steve Murphy and Mark Putnam of Murphy Putnam Media in Alexandria, Virginia.
  