
    I wish to express my profound satisfaction on the occasion of the entry into force today of the Antarctic Treaty. This Treaty has now been ratified by all of the 12 countries which participated in the Conference on Antarctica held in Washington in 1959" Argentina, Australia, Belgium, Chile, France, Japan, New Zealand, Norway, South Africa, the Soviet Union, the United Kingdom and the United States--all of which signed the Treaty at the conclusion of the Conference on December 1, 1959.
This is a significant treaty in several respects. First and foremost it provides that the vast Antarctic continent shall be used for peaceful purposes only. Accompanying this provision is the important provision whereby the parties have the right to send observers anywhere in Antarctica at any time to see that the Treaty is not being violated, and the right of overflight of all areas of Antarctica. It could very well provide valuable practical experience in the field of international inspection in other situations.
The Treaty also provides for freedom of scientific investigation and international cooperation in science in Antarctica. Nuclear explosions throughout the area are banned, pending general international agreement on the subject, although the use of nuclear energy for such purposes as heat and power is permitted.
The difficult question of territorial claims in Antarctica is in effect set aside by the Treaty, which states that nothing in the Treaty shall be interpreted as either a renunciation or recognition of claims or bases of claims. The United States has never asserted a territorial claim in Antarctica, nor has it ever recognized the claims of others. By this Treaty the United States continues to reserve its rights throughout the whole of Antarctica.
The Antarctic Treaty was conceived by the United States and the Conference at which it was drawn up was called by the United States, after nearly two years of patient and skillful preliminary negotiations. It has been signed and ratified by countries representing all of the world's six continents, many of which held divergent views on Antarctica. That this was possible I find very encouraging.
I earnestly believe that the Antarctic Treaty represents a positive step in the direction of world-wide peace, and am genuinely gratified to announce its entry into force today.
  