
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate five individuals to serve in his Administration:
The President intends to nominate Randall M. Fort, of Virginia, to be Assistant Secretary of State for Intelligence and Research. Mr. Fort is currently Co-Head of Global Security at Goldman Sachs. Prior to this, he served as Chief of Staff to the President and Co-Chief Operating Officer. Earlier in his career, he served as Deputy Assistant Secretary for Functional Analysis and Research in the Bureau of Intelligence and Research at the Department of State. Mr. Fort received his bachelor's degree from The George Washington University.
The President intends to nominate Margo M. McKay, of Virginia, to be Assistant Secretary of Agriculture for Civil Rights. Ms. McKay currently serves as Associate General Counsel for Fannie Mae. Prior to this, she served as Director of Compliance. Earlier in her career, she served as Chief Administrative Judge for the Temporary Panel of the Office of Employee Appeals for the District of Columbia. She also served as a trial attorney in the Civil Rights Division at the Department of Justice. Ms. McKay received her bachelor's degree from Fisk University and her JD from Georgetown University.
The President intends to nominate Stephen S. McMillin, of Texas, to be Deputy Director of the Office of Management and Budget. Mr. McMillin currently serves as Deputy Assistant to the President and Advisor to the Chief of Staff at the White House. Prior to this, he served as Associate Director for General Government Programs for the Office of Management and Budget. Earlier in his career, he served as Legislative Director and Financial Economist for the Senate Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs. Mr. McMillin received his bachelor's degree from the University of Texas at Austin.
The President intends to nominate Drue Pearce, of Alaska, to be Federal Coordinator for Alaska Natural Gas Transportation Projects, for a term of one year following the completion of the Alaska Natural Gas Transportation Project. Ms. Pearce currently serves as Senior Advisor to the Secretary for Alaska Affairs at the Department of the Interior. Prior to this, she served as a State Senator for the Alaska State Legislature, and she was elected twice to serve as the Alaska Senate President. Earlier in her career, she served as a Resources Consultant for the Arctic Slope Regional Corporation. Ms. Pearce received her bachelor's degree from Indiana University and her master's degree from Harvard University.
The President intends to nominate Marc Spitzer, of Arizona, to be a Member of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, for the remainder of a five-year term expiring June 30, 2011. Mr. Spitzer currently serves as Corporation Commissioner for the State of Arizona. Prior to this, he served as an Arizona State Senator. Earlier in his career, he served as a Tax Attorney with KPMG Peat Marwick. Mr. Spitzer received his bachelor's degree from Dickinson College and his JD from the University of Michigan.
  