
    Pool Reports by Layla A. Jones, The Philadelphia Inquirer 



Sent:
Reports:




June 6, 202309:14

VP travel pool report #1 - wheels down
Vice President Kamala Harris landed at the Philadelphia International Airport at 9:10 am



June 6, 202309:32

VP travel pool report #2- rolling
The VP disembarked AF2 at 9:23 under overcast skies as the sun tried to break through. Greeted by cheers. Took time to shake hands and take photos with smiles and laughter. The motorcade left at 9:30 for the meeting of international SEIU labor leaders held at the Sheraton Philadelphia Downtown.



June 6, 202310:06

VP travel pool report #3 - SEIU exec board meeting
VP motorcade arrived at the Executive Board Meeting of the Service Employees International Union (SEIU) at 9:48 a.m.



June 6, 202311:23

VP travel pool report #4 - Harris speaking
VP Harris came out to cheers from union organizers began speaking at 10:43 in the Liberty Ballroom at the Sheraton Philadelphia Downtown. She spoke for around 35 minutes, answering questions from SEIU President Mary Kay Henry and SEIU Secretary-Treasurer April Verrett.
Harris spoke about what she described as an attack on American freedoms by the GOP and even the Supreme Court. She said labor organizers had "a fight" on their hands, talked about the administrations labor accomplishments and issues that still need to be addressed.
The motorcade departed at 11:22 a.m.



June 6, 202311:46

VP travel pool report #5 - departure
Motorcade arrived at Philadelphia International Airport at 11:35 a.m.
VP boarded AF2 at 11:37 a.m. Wheels up at 11:45 a.m.



June 6, 202316:43

VP travel pool # 6 - background from White House and quotes
On background from a White House official:Following the open press portion of the Vice President's moderated conversation with SEIU, the Vice President discussed a wide range of issues important to the members and leaders of SEIU, the Administration, and working families. The Vice President reaffirmed the Administration's commitment to fight for investments in care workers and the care economy. On reproductive rights, the Vice President condemned the extremist policies being enacted across the country and spoke about the critical leadership of SEIU in building coalitions to counter extremist policies. The Vice President also spoke about the importance and need to respect and value the contributions of immigrant workers, and the need for Congress to take action to reform our broken immigration system. In conclusion, the Vice President shared the optimism she has for the future and the belief in what we can be accomplished when people work together.
Some quote highlights from VP Harris are:

There's so much about our movement, about the labor movement, the union movement, that has been about reminding people what they have a right to demand and expect at a basic level in terms of dignity, but also to have the dignity of their work respected and acknowledged in every way.
I know the leaders in this room... you don't give up.
The work you do is changing lives and improving the condition of our country and our standing when we say we have certain values and ideals about equality of people and the right of people to happiness and to a certain quality of mind. So I start by saying thank you

[On attacks on freedoms]

"The United States Supreme Court, the highest court in our land, the court of Thurgood Marshall, of RBJ, just took a constitutional right from the people of America, from the women of America."
They're passing laws proposal that would criminalize you for giving comfort and care to an undocumented immigrant.

[On admin labor work]

We believe our administration will prove to have been the most union friendly administration in all of America's history.
Joe Biden, lives, breathes, and cares so deeply about the importance of strengthening and uplifting working people, through strengthening and uplifting labor unions
We still need to have legislation passed and then find it to bring down the cost of childcare while holding up and lifting up the wages of childcare workers.

Thanks!



 
Pool Reports below by Rozina Sabur, The Telegraph 



Sent:
Reports:




June 6, 202309:14

VP in-town pool report #1: Background on tonight's event and VP arrival
Good evening, I'll be your print pooler for the Vice President's appearance at Israel's Independence Day Reception, hosted by the Embassy of Israel tonight.
Kamala Harris is joined by the Second Gentleman Doug Emhoff to celebrate the 75th anniversary of the founding of the State of Israel. The event is taking place at the National Building Museum.
The VP is due to deliver remarks shortly. The remarks will be live-streamed.
Pool traveled to the venue from the White House. VP is traveling from her residence so we did not see her departure/arrival.
VP and SG took to the stage at 7:11pm
Passing along the following on background from a White House Official:
This evening, the Vice President will deliver remarks at Israel's Independence Day Reception, hosted by the Embassy of Israel in Washington, D.C., celebrating the 75th anniversary of the founding of the State of Israel. These remarks will be livestreamed on Whitehouse.gov/live
Speaking participants:The Vice PresidentAmbassador Michael Herzog, Israel Ambassador to the United StatesMontana Tucker, the emcee



June 6, 202321:02

VP in-town pool report #2: VP remarks and colour
VP Harris and SG Emhoff, both wearing dark suits, sat on stage against a backdrop of US and Israeli flags as the Israeli ambassador to Washington, Michael Herzog, delivered opening remarks. Mr Herzog's wife Shirin was also seated on stage.
Recorded remarks were also delivered by Mr Herzog's brother, Isaac Herzog, the Israeli Prime Minister, who said he was "looking forward to visiting the United States of America in the near future" to address Congress and visit "my good friends at the White House".
Ms Harris took to the podium at 7.30pm to a smattering of applause from the crowd. The VP's remarks are being live-streamed so I am only sharing a few highlights. As always please check quotes against the transcript.
Ms Harris gave a shout out to her husband who joined her on stage, noting he was "the first Second Gentleman of the United States and the first Jewish spouse of a President or Vice President". "This historical fact has led to a lot of others," she said, citing a number of examples.
There was fairly warm applause from the audience as Ms Harris underscored the administration's commitment to a two-state solution. She said: "The Biden-Harris administration will continue to work toward a world where Israelis and Palestinians can live safely and securely and enjoy equal measures of freedom, prosperity, and democracy.
"And we believe that the best way to achieve this goal is through two states."
There was loud clapping as Ms Harris denounced anti-Semitism, saying: "we must stand up and fight back against anti-Semitism wherever and whenever we see it".
Ms Harris said that under "President Joe Biden and our administration, America will continue to stand for the values that have been the bedrock of the US-Israel relationship".
She said this includes "continuing to strengthen our democracies" , which are "both built on strong institutions, checks and balances". In a pointed aside, she went on to say with a stern face: "And I'll add - an independent judiciary." There were some loud whoops from some in the crowd, but a much more muted reaction from other audience members, who silently exchanged glances at the comment.
There are around 2,000 guests at tonight's event. Your pooler spotted Senator Amy Klobuchar and Representative Debbie Wasserman Schultz among the crowd. Around 80 members of Congress RSVP'd for tonight's event, I'm told by one event insider, but there is no confirmation on how many are actually attending.
VP concluded her speech at around 7.45pm. She remained on stage to shake hands with school children who then sang the US and Israeli national anthems.
The formal portion of the event wrapped up shortly afterwards and VP and SG left the stage at around 8pm.
Your pooler did not see the VP exiting the venue. Pool was ushered away separately to travel back to the White House. That's all from me tonight.



June 6, 202321:22

VP in-town pool report #3: correction
An earlier pool report incorrectly stated Isaac Herzog's role. He is of course the Israeli President, not the Prime Minister. Apologies for any confusion.




  