
    Hillary Clinton received the endorsements of more than a dozen leading Michigan officials and community leaders today on the eve of her trip to Detroit to address an AFL-CIO forum Saturday.
"At a time when America is desperate for experienced leadership, Hillary Clinton is the only candidate who can hit the ground running on her first day in office," said former Michigan Governor and U.S. Ambassador to Canada Jim Blanchard. "Her combination of toughness and vision make her uniquely qualified to be President."
"Hillary Clinton is a woman of vision and action," said Wayne County Commission Chair Jewel Ware. "She will be a champion for manufacturing and our key industries. And she will bring an improved qualify of life for Michigan and for all of America."
Lansing civic leader and Michigan State Trustee Joel Ferguson said, "Hillary Clinton has devoted her life to expanding opportunity for all Americans. She is a leader Michigan can trust to address our priorities -- strengthening our economy, creating and protecting jobs, improving education and demanding universal healthcare. Hillary has been tackling the tough issues facing our country for three decades. No one would be a better partner for Michigan and its workers, and no one is better prepared to be President."
"I am grateful for the overwhelming support I've received in Michigan," Clinton said. "These community leaders will be critical to spreading our message of change from Detroit to the Upper Peninsula."
Leading Michiganians Endorsing Hillary Today
Today's endorsements represent Hillary's growing support in Michigan, and include:

Former Governor Jim Blanchard and Janet Blanchard
Joel Ferguson, Civic leader, Michigan State Trustee
Jewel Ware, Chair, Wayne County Commission, and Jesse Long-Bey
Virg Bernero, Mayor, Lansing
Hon. Dianne Byrum, Former State Representative
Hon. Jim Barcia, State Senator
Rev. Harold Hampton, City Councilman, Benton Harbor
Florine Mark, Businesswoman
Barbara Rom, Managing Partner, Pepper Hamilton
Michael Hodge, Principal, Miller Canfield
Archie Bailey, Chair, Genesee Board of Commissioners
Ken Lampar, Democratic Activist, Macomb County
Larry Owen, Former Consul General, Bermuda and Faylene Owen, MSU Trustee
Zina Kramer, Businesswoman, and Michael Kramer, Attorney
Hon. Barry Howard, Retired Oakland County Judge
Francis Brouillette, Attorney, Iron Mountain
Abdul "Duke" Fakir, Entertainer, Member of the Four Tops
Ted Gatzaros, Detroit Developer
Greg Morris, Detroit Businessman

  