
    Pool Reports by Alex Gangitano, The Hill 



Sent:
Reports:




June 21, 2023 09:29 PDT

Travel pool #1
Good morning from San Francisco!
Pool has been tested and is ready to head back to Washington.
Motorcade is rolling at 9:28am.
Passing along from the WH—
Traveling with the President via motorcade en route to San Francisco International Airport:
Dr. Arati Prabhakar, Assistant to the President & Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations Karine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press Secretary Vinay Reddy, Assistant to the President & Director of Speechwriting Ali Zaidi, Assistant to the President & National Climate Advisor Ben LaBolt, Assistant to the President & Director of Communications Anne Neuberger, Deputy Assistant to the President & Deputy National Security Advisor for Cyber & Emerging Technology Ashley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office Operations Travis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director John McCarthy, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the Counselor to the President Maggie Thomas, Special Assistant to the President for Climate Vivek Viswanathan, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the Deputy Chief of Staff
Schedule is below—
PDT
9:00 AM Out-of-Town Pool Call Time
9:00 AM THE PRESIDENT receives the Presidential Daily Briefing Closed Press
10:05 AM THE PRESIDENT departs San Francisco, California en route to Joint Base Andrews  San Francisco International Airport, San Francisco, California  Out-of-Town Pool
EDT
4:00 PM In-Town Pool Call Time
5:50 PM THE PRESIDENT arrives at Joint Base Andrews  Joint Base Andrews  Out-of-Town Pool
6:00 PM THE PRESIDENT departs Joint Base Andrews en route to the White House  Joint Base Andrews  In-Town Travel Pool
6:2o PM THE PRESIDENT arrives at the White House  North Grounds  In-Town Travel Pool
6:50 PM THE PRESIDENT and THE FIRST LADY welcome Prime Minister Narendra Modi of the Republic of India to the White House South Portico  In-House Pool
7:15 PM THE PRESIDENT hosts Prime Minister Narendra Modi of the Republic of India for dinner    Closed Press 


June 21, 2023 09:52 PDT

Travel pool #2- traveling with
Motorcade arrived at SFO at 9:50am.
Passing along--
Traveling with the President aboard Air Force One en route to Joint Base Andrews:
Dr. Arati Prabhakar, Assistant to the President & Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations Karine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press Secretary Vinay Reddy, Assistant to the President & Director of Speechwriting Ali Zaidi, Assistant to the President & National Climate Advisor Ben LaBolt, Assistant to the President & Director of Communications Anne Neuberger, Deputy Assistant to the President & Deputy National Security Advisor for Cyber & Emerging Technology Ashley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office Operations Travis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director John McCarthy, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the Counselor to the President Vivek Viswanathan, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the Deputy Chief of Staff 


June 21, 2023 09:56 PDT

Travel pool #3
Biden boarded AF1 at 9:56am. We will be wheels up shortly. 


June 21, 2023 10:05 PDT

Travel pool #4
At 10:03am, we are about to be wheels up for JBA. 


June 21, 2023 17:32 EDT

Travel pool #5- wheels down
AF1 landed at JBA at 5:28pm.
Ben LaBolt and Karine Jean-Pierre came back for a brief off the record with reporters during the flight. 


June 21, 2023 17:42 EDT

Travel pool #6
Biden deplaned at 5:39pm. He did not stop and talk to the pool.
That's a wrap, handing off to my colleague on in-town pool.
Thanks all for following along with me! 


June 21, 2023 17:43 EDT

Travel pool #7
Passing along-
Greeting the President upon arrival at Joint Base Andrews:
Colonel Matthew Jones, 89th Airlift Wing 




Pool Reports below by Brett Samuels, The Hill 



Sent:
Reports:




June 21, 2023 17:43 EDT

In-town pool report #1: Rolling from JBA
Hello, I'm taking the handoff from my fellow Hill reporter and will be your in-town pooler for the remainder of the evening.
President Biden got into the Beast after departing Air Force One, and the motorcade back to the White House is rolling at 5:42 p.m. under a steady rain.
As a reminder, here's the schedule for the rest of the night:
6:50 PM THE PRESIDENT and THE FIRST LADY welcome Prime Minister Narendra Modi of the Republic of India to the White House South Portico In-House Pool
7:15 PM THE PRESIDENT hosts Prime Minister Narendra Modi of the Republic of India for dinner   Closed Press 


June 21, 2023 18:06 EDT

In-town pool report #2: White House arrival
Motorcade arrived back at the White House at 6:04 p.m. after an uneventful drive. A smattering of onlookers stood under umbrellas on the sidewalks as we got closer to the White House.
Pool did not see POTUS enter the building through the North Portico, which is where we pulled in.
Next up is Prime Minister Modi's arrival ahead of tonight's private dinner with the president in roughly an hour. 


June 21, 2023 19:13 EDT

In-town pool report #3: Gathering for Modi arrival
Pool is now gathering for PM Modi's arrival at the South Portico. 


June 21, 2023 19:39 EDT

In-town pool report #4: Modi arrival
Prime Minister Modi's vehicle pulled up in front of the South Portico entrance to the White House at 7:36 p.m.
The president and First Lady stepped outside to greet Modi, and the two exchanged pleasantries outside of earshot of the pool and posed for photos. The trio entered the White House at 7:37 without making any remarks.
The president is hosting the prime minister for dinner, which is closed to the press.
Pool was assembled on the South Lawn, which is being set up for part of tomorrow's State Visit with a riser, rope lines and what appears to be a small stage covered by a tarp. The rain had mostly subsided by the time of the prime minister's arrival. 


June 21, 2023 19:45 EDT

In-town pool report #5: Official gifts
From the White House:
As the official gift, the President and First Lady will present Prime Minister Modi with a handmade, antique American book galley from the early 20th Century. President Biden will also gift Prime Minister Modi a vintage American camera, accompanied by an archival facsimile print of George Eastman's Patent of the first Kodak camera, and a hardcover book of American wildlife photography. Dr. Biden will gift the Prime Minister a signed, first edition copy of "Collected Poems of Robert Frost." 


June 21, 2023 19:54 EDT

In-town pool report #6: Lid
White House called a lid at 7:53 p.m. Your pooler has asked about what's being served for dinner tonight and will pass along any update.
Have a great rest of the night! 


June 21, 2023 20:01 EDT

In-town pool report #7: Musical tribute
Passing along from the White House:
This evening, the President, First Lady, and Prime Minister Modi enjoyed a musical tribute to the regions of India, performed by youth dancers from Studio Dhoom, a DMV-based Indian dance studio that helps connect a new generation to the vibrant culture of Indian dance. 


June 21, 2023 20:51 EDT

In-town pool report #8: Dinner details
Passing along from the White House on tonight's dinner:
The President is hosting Prime Minister Modi for a private dinner at the White House, featuring a few of the President's favorite foods, including pasta and ice cream. They will be joined by U.S. National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan and National Security Advisory of India Ajit Doval. 




Pool Reports below by Lalit K Jha, Press Trust of India 



Sent:
Reports:




June 21, 2023 19:55 EDT

Foreign Pool Report # 1
Hi,
I am your foreign pooler this evening and the Historic Official State Visit of Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The State Dinner and the formal Welcome Ceremony is tomorrow.
This evening PM Modi's motorcade pulled up in the South Portico around 7:36 pm. POTUS and First Lady Dr Jill Biden received them. They were seen chatting for about a minute and then they posed for pictures.
As the PM, POTUS and FLOTUS entered the residences, three senior Indian Officials were also spotted: National Security Advisor Ajit Doval, Foreign Secretary Vinay Kwatra and Deputy Chief of Protocol Aseem Vohra.
This below from the WH:
As the official gift, the President and First Lady will present Prime Minister Modi with a handmade, antique American book galley from the early 20th Century. President Biden will also gift Prime Minister Modi a vintage American camera, accompanied by an archival facsimile print of George Eastman's Patent of the first Kodak camera, and a hardcover book of American wildlife photography. Dr. Biden will gift the Prime Minister a signed, first edition copy of "Collected Poems of Robert Frost."
WH called a travel photo lid at 7:53 pm 


June 21, 2023 20:06 EDT

Foreign Pool Note # 2
From WH:
This evening, the President, First Lady, and Prime Minister Modi enjoyed a musical tribute to the regions of India, performed by youth dancers from Studio Dhoom, a DMV-based Indian dance studio that helps connect a new generation to the vibrant culture of Indian dance. 


June 21, 2023 21:04 EDT

Foreign Pool Report # 3
From WH
The President is hosting Prime Minister Modi for a private dinner at the White House, featuring a few of the President's favorite foods, including pasta and ice cream. They will be joined by U.S. National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan and National Security Advisory of India Ajit Doval. 



  