
    President George W. Bush announced that he has nominated twelve individuals and designated five individuals to serve in his Administration:
The President has nominated John O. Agwunobi, of Florida, to be Assistant Secretary of Health and Human Services (Health). Dr. Agwunobi currently serves as Secretary and State Health Officer at the Florida Department of Health. He previously served as Vice President of Medical Affairs and Patient Services at the Hospital for Sick Children in Washington, DC. As a pediatrician, Dr. Agwunobi has practiced medicine in rural, inner city and suburban communities. He received his medical degree from the University of Jos, Nigeria. He received his first master's degree from Georgetown University and his second master's degree from Johns Hopkins University.
The President has nominated James Cain, of North Carolina, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Denmark. Mr. Cain currently serves as a Partner in the law firm of Kilpatrick Stockton, LLP. He previously served as President and Chief Operating Officer of the National Hockey League's Carolina Hurricanes and its parent company, Gale Force Holdings. Mr. Cain received his bachelor's degree and his J.D. from Wake Forest University.
The President has nominated Keith E. Eastin, of Texas, to be Assistant Secretary of the Army (Installations and Environment). Mr. Eastin currently serves as Senior Consultant to the Ministry of Environment in Baghdad, Iraq. He previously served as Special Counsel at the Department of the Interior. Earlier in his career, Mr. Eastin was a Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Navy. He received his bachelor's degree and master's degree from the University of Cincinnati. He later received his J.D. from the University of Chicago Law School.
The President has nominated A.J. Eggenberger, of Montana, to be a Member of the Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board for the remainder of a five year term expiring October 18, 2008. In addition, the President intends to designate him Chairman. Mr. Eggenberger has served as a Member and Vice Chairman of the Board since 1989. Prior to that, he was a Program Director at the National Science Foundation. Mr. Eggenberger received his bachelor's degree from Carnegie Mellon University and his master's degree from Ohio State University. He later received his Ph.D. from Carnegie Mellon University.
The President has nominated Terrell Halaska, of the District of Columbia, to be Assistant Secretary of Education (Congressional Affairs). Ms. Halaska currently serves as a Special Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy. She previously served as Deputy Chief of Staff at the Department of Health and Human Services. Earlier in her career, Ms. Halaska served as Press Secretary for Congressman Scott Klug. She received her bachelor's degree from the University of California, San Diego and her master's degree from the Monterey Institute of International Studies.
The President has nominated Kim Kendrick, of the District of Columbia, to be Assistant Secretary of Housing and Urban Development (Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity). Ms. Kendrick currently serves as Senior Counselor to the Secretary at the Department of Housing and Urban Development. She previously served as General Counsel at Covenant House Washington. Ms. Kendrick received her bachelor's degree from Bowdoin College and her J.D. from the University of Pittsburgh.
The President has nominated Ronald E. Meisburg, of Virginia, to be General Counsel of the National Labor Relations Board for a four-year term. Mr. Meisburg currently serves as Special Assistant to the Associate General Counsel for Enforcement at the National Labor Relations Board. Prior to that, he was an attorney with Ogletree, Deakins, Nash, Smoak & Stewart, a Washington, D.C. based law firm. Earlier in his career, he served at the Department of Labor in the Office of the Solicitor of Labor, the division of Employee Benefits and the division of Mine Safety and Health. He received his bachelor's degree from Carson-Newman College and his J.D. from the University of Louisville.
The President has nominated Robert A. Mosbacher, Jr., of Texas, to be President of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation. Mr. Mosbacher has served as President and Chief Executive Officer of the Mosbacher Energy Company for nearly twenty years. Prior to that, he worked for Senator Howard Baker. Mr. Mosbacher received his bachelor's degree from Georgetown University and his J.D. from Southern Methodist University.
The President has nominated Julie L. Myers, of Kansas, to be Assistant Secretary of Homeland Security (Bureau of Immigration and Customs Enforcement). Ms. Myers currently serves as Special Assistant to the President for Presidential Personnel. She previously served as Assistant Secretary for Export Enforcement at the Department of Commerce. Prior to that, Ms. Myers was the Chief of Staff for the Criminal Division at the Department of Justice. She also served as an Assistant United States Attorney in the Eastern District of New York. Ms. Myers received her bachelor's degree from Baylor University and her J.D. from Cornell Law School.
The President has nominated Patrick M. O'Brien, of Minnesota, to be Assistant Secretary of the Treasury for Terrorist Finance. Mr. O'Brien currently serves as the Senior Counsel in the Office of the Deputy Attorney General at the Department of Justice. He previously served as Counsel to the Director at the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Prior to that, Mr. O'Brien was the Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General for Legislative Affairs at the Department of Justice. He received his bachelor's degree from the University of Notre Dame and his J.D. from the University of Minnesota Law School.
The President has nominated Peter Schaumber, of the District of Columbia, to be a Member of the National Labor Relations Board, for the remainder of a five-year term expiring August 27, 2010. Mr. Schaumber currently serves as a Member of the National Labor Relations Board and previously served as a Labor Arbitrator in Washington, D.C. Earlier in his career, he was Senior Trial Attorney and Associate Director of a Law Department Division in the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency. Mr. Schaumber received his bachelor's degree and his J.D. from Georgetown University.
The President has nominated Kristen Silverberg, of Texas, to be Assistant Secretary of State (International Organization Affairs). Ms. Silverberg currently serves as Deputy Assistant to the President and Advisor to the Chief of Staff in the White House. She previously served as Deputy Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy. Prior to that, Ms. Silverberg served as Senior Advisor to Ambassador Paul Bremer in Baghdad, Iraq and as Special Assistant to the President in the Office of the Chief of Staff. Earlier in her career, she served as a Law Clerk to Supreme Court Justice Clarence Thomas. Ms. Silverberg received her bachelor's degree from Harvard University and her J.D. from the University of Texas Law School.
The President has designated Joseph Timothy Kelliher, of the District of Columbia, to be Chairman of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission. Mr. Kelliher has served as a Commissioner of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission since November 30, 2003. Prior to joining the Commission, he was a Senior Policy Advisor to the Secretary of Energy. Earlier in his career, Mr. Kelliher served as Majority Counsel on electricity, hydropower and energy conservation for the House Committee on Commerce. He received his bachelor's degree from Georgetown University and his J.D. from American University.
The President has designated Stephen D. Galvan, of Illinois, to be Acting Deputy Administrator of the Small Business Administration.
The President has designated Cynthia A. Glassman, of Virginia, to be Acting Chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission.
The President has designated Arthur F. Rosenfeld, of Virginia, to be Acting General Counsel of the National Labor Relations Board.
  