
    I AM ESTABLISHING a Board of Inquiry to inquire into the labor dispute in the maritime industry.
The shutdown in this industry has continued now for eleven days. It involves virtually all American companies, 70,000 men, and the commerce at every Atlantic, Pacific and Gulf port.
There have already been serious interruptions in the movement of food, oil and other essential commodities. The supply lifelines to the State of Hawaii and to Puerto Rico have been cut. There have been delays in the shipments of military cargoes.
The law provides for establishment of a Board of Inquiry whenever, in the opinion of the President, a strike affecting a substantial part of an industry will, if permitted to continue, imperil the national health and safety. It is my opinion that we have reached this stage in this dispute.
I am aware of the suggestions some of the parties to this dispute have made for minimizing its effect upon the national health and safety. These suggestions appear, on first impression, more tactical than substantial. I request the Board of Inquiry to consider these suggestions, however, and to include findings of fact regarding them in the report the Board will submit to me.
I am also keenly aware of the desirability of so conducting the Government's participation in this dispute as to recognize the continuing importance here of collective bargaining. For this dispute will eventually be settled by collective bargaining. The law provides no alternative settlement process. The report the Board of Inquiry submits to me is limited, by law, to a statement of the facts.
I therefore urge the parties to continue their bargaining, and to use the offices of the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service, as Well as the Board of Inquiry, toward the end of achieving now the settlement of this dispute which will in any event come eventually by and through their efforts.
I note the desirability in situations of this kind of more flexible statutory procedures. I have urged in the past the adoption of such procedures. The Secretary of Labor has sought, in the course of this dispute, to develop such procedures; but has not been able to obtain consent of all of the parties.
This dispute presents new evidence of the imperative need for modifications in the present law. I propose to make suggestions to the Congress along these lines very shortly.
In the meantime, this particular dispute must be met with the procedures at hand.
I have appointed to the Board: Mr. David L. Cole, of Paterson, New Jersey, as Chairman; Judge Samuel I. Rosenman, of New York; and Professor James J. Healy, of Boston.
I am asking the Board to report to me as quickly as possible, hopefully by Friday of this week.
  