
    "The Supreme Court may have found Obamacare constitutional, but it remains just as disastrous for job creators as the day the law was passed. Obamacare is a job killer – it raises taxes, cuts Medicare, and puts government between patients and their doctors. To rescue middle-class families from Obamacare's rising costs and fewer options, Americans need a new president who will put jobs and economic growth first." –Amanda Henneberg, Romney Campaign Spokesperson
Job Creators And Business Experts Agree – Obamacare Will Continue To Impede Hiring And New Investment Around The Country:
CNBC Headline: "Small Business On Obamacare: No Reason To Hire Or Invest" (Patricia Orsini, "Small Business On Obamacare: No Reason To Hire Or Invest," CNBC, 6/28/12)
"That Concern, That Businesses Will Not Increase The Number Of Employees If It Means They Will Have To Take On More Health-Care Costs, Is Top Of Mind For Many Business Owners." (Patricia Orsini, "Small Business On Obamacare: No Reason To Hire Or Invest," CNBC, 6/28/12)
National Businesses Will Be Forced To "Shift Workers To Part-Time To Avoid" Obamacare's New Rules And Regulations. "Jim Amos, CEO and chairman of Tasti D-Lite, a frozen yogurt franchise that operates in 14 states as well as globally, is certain of one thing: The ruling will hinder growth in the franchise space. 'It's going to force franchisees to shift workers to part-time to avoid the 50-employee threshold,' he said. 'It will keep new owners and new openings on the sideline.'" (Patricia Orsini, "Small Business On Obamacare: No Reason To Hire Or Invest," CNBC, 6/28/12)
Jersey Giant Subs Owner Britton Slocum: "It's Going To Cost Me Over A Third Of A Million Dollars A Year To Implement This Program..." SLOCUM: "It's going to cost me over a third of a million dollars a year to implement this program and I don't know where I come up with $360,000 a year. I don't have that many customers a year." (WILX's "News 10," 6/27/12)

Slocum, On Obamacare: "It's Like Putting A Dagger Through The Heart Of Small Business ... I'm Hoping To Grow, But I Can't Grow." SLOCUM: "It crushes not just our dreams, it kills us. It's like putting a dagger through the heart of small business. ... I'm hoping to grow, but I can't grow. My biggest fear is where do I come up with that money to pay for this if that should pass." (WILX's "News 10," 6/27/12)

Schupan & Sons' Marc Schupan: "This Decision Will Be Negative For Future Employment." "'This decision will be negative for future employment,' said Marc Schupan, CEO, Schupan & Sons, who provides health insurance of his employees. 'We will look at hiring more closely and could increase temps as opposed to full-time personnel.'" (Patricia Orsini, "Small Business On Obamacare: No Reason To Hire Or Invest," CNBC, 6/28/12)
International Franchise Association's Steve Caldeira: "The Impending Costs Of Health Care Do Not Give Business Owners Confidence To Open That Extra Store Or To Hire More People..." "'This decision sustains the uncertainty they currently have,' says Steve Caldeira, president and CEO of the International Franchise Association. 'The impending costs of health care do not give business owners confidence to open that extra store or to hire more people and create the economic output our country needs.'" (Patricia Orsini, "Small Business On Obamacare: No Reason To Hire Or Invest," CNBC, 6/28/12)
CNBC's Jim Cramer: "This Is Just A Terrible Decision People For The Possibility Of More Employment For This Year." CRAMER: "At the same time, I think this is just a terrible decision people for the possibility of more employment for this year. Look, this is not a great thing for small business and I think that the market is afraid that small business will lay off people and I think that the market is taking it overall right in that this is just another reason why you should not hire and another reason why you should fire." (CNBC's "Squawk On The Street," 6/28/12)
Why Are Businesses So Afraid Of Obamacare? It Harms Job Creators With New Taxes And Regulations:
Nearly Three-Quarters Of Small-Business Owners Blame Obamacare For Impeding Job Creation. "As part of the explanation for the general economic pessimism, 78 percent of small businesses believe that taxation, regulation and legislation from Washington make it harder for businesses to hire more employees — and 74 percent blame the recent health care reforms passed by the Obama administration for creating an impediment to job creation." (Tim Mak, "Chamber Poll: Small Biz Blames D.C.," Politico, 1/18/12)
Obamacare Contains "The Largest Tax Increase Since 1993." "Keep in mind that Mr. Obama has already signed the largest tax increase since 1993. While everyone focuses on the Bush tax rates that expire after 2012, other tax increases are already set to hit the economy thanks to the 2010 Affordable Care Act." (Editorial, "Taxes Upon Taxes Upon...," The Wall Street Journal, 7/11/11)


    The Nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office Estimated That Obamacare Will Raise More Than $500 Billion In Taxes Over Its First 10 Years. (CBO Director Douglas W. Elmendorf, Testimony, U.S. House Of Representatives, 3/30/11)
  

Obamacare Could Force Businesses In The Medical Device Industry To Shift More Than 40,000 Jobs Overseas. "The medical device industry says it could lose 10 percent of its U.S. workforce because of a tax created by healthcare reform. The Advanced Medical Technology Association (AdvaMed) released a report Wednesday that says device-makers might ship 43,000 jobs overseas once the tax takes effect in 2013." (Sam Baker, "Device-Makers Say Tax Will Cost 43,000 US Jobs," The Hill, 9/7/11)
  