
    Pool Reports by Rob Crilly, Daily Mail 



Sent:
Reports:




June 26, 202208:42 CEST

Travel pool report #1: Good morning.
Good morning from a groggy pool after a late night and an early call time.
The sky is clear and the mountains look glorious.
We are holding in the press facilities at Schloss Elmau for the first scheduled event, the bilateral meeting between Potus and Chancellor Olaf Scholz at 10:30 CEST, a little under two hours from now.



June 26, 202209:58 CEST

Travel pool report #2: mass
The White House passes this along:
'This morning, the President attended mass at the Schloss. The Priest was from the U.S. Army.'



June 26, 202210:55 CEST

Travel pool report #3: Scholz meeting
POTUS arrived at the meeting room at 10:45 where Scholz was waiting to greet him.
POTUS opened with his favorite joke seeing Scholz on the decking.
'don't jump'
'good to see you. Been here only once before,' he said, removing his Aviators before the two leaders shook hands.
They then moved inside and took their seats in front of flags.
'beautiful' he said of the view
Scholz said he was glad to have Biden here.
Potus: 'Well there's a lot to do and I want to congratulate you on stepping up when you became chancellor'
He praised his work on Ukraine
'make sure we have us all staying together and continue working on the economic challenges we face.'
Potus: 'Thank you thank you... we have to stay together'
Potus: 'Putin has been counting on' the G7 and NATO 'splinter'.
'We'll get through this.'
As ever check against video or audio.
Pool ushered out at 10:49. Full list of meeting participants below.
The meeting took place in the summit pavilion, looking out on to the mountains. The building has a wooden deck, and is covered in wooden tiles, with floor to ceiling windows on one side to make the most of the view.
The deck was screened with what looked like bullet-proof glass.
Pool was asked to wear blue plastic bag covers on shoes.
From White House:
Participating in the President’s bilateral meeting with Olaf Scholz, Chancellor of Germany:
U.S. ManifestT.H. Antony Blinken, Secretary of StateT.H. Jon Finer, Assistant to the President and Principal Deputy National Security AdvisorT.H. Mike Pyle, Deputy National Security Advisor for International Economic AffairsMr. Amos Hochstein, Presidential CoordinatorT.H. Dr. Amanda Sloat, Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for Europe, National Security CouncilMs. Sujata Sharma, Director for European Affairs, National Security Council
Germany ManifestH.E. Olaf Scholz, Chancellor of the Federal Republic of GermanyMr. Wolfgang Schmidt, Head of the Federal Chancellery and Federal MinisterH.E. Steffen Hebestreit, State Secretary and Spokesperson of the Federal Republic of GermanyH.E. Dr. Jörg Kukies, State Secretary of the Federal Republic of GermanyMr. Jens Plötner, Foreign Policy and National Security Advisor to the ChancellorDr. Steffen Meyer, Advisor to the Federal ChancellorMs. Jeanette Schwamberger, Head of the Office of the Federal Chancellor



June 26, 202211:12 CEST

Travel pool report #4: More POTUS quotes
It was difficult to hear POTUS and Scholz was very quiet from Pool position. But here are some quotes with help of co-poolers
More Biden quotes.
On the setting:
'I used to ski too I haven’t skied in a while it’s beautiful'
Praise for Sholz
'There’s a lot to do and I want to complement you on stepping up as you did when you became Chancellor.
'And in the way you had a great impact on the rest of Europe to move, particularly relating to Ukraine.'
'You’re one of our fastest and closest allies in the world.'
Fuller Putin quote
'Thank you thank you... we have to stay together.'
'Because Putin is counting on from the beginning that NATO and the G7 would splinter. But we haven't and we're not going to.'
We



June 26, 202212:12 CEST

Travel pool report #5: Welcome participants
Pool has been split to cover almost simultaneous events.
One part is awaiting working lunch while the other is at official welcome, about which the White House sends this:
Participating in the welcome hosted by Chancellor Olaf Scholz and Ms. Britta Ernst:President Ursula von der Leyen, European Commission with Mr. Heiko von der Leyen, Spouse to the President of the European CommissionPresident Charles Michel with Ms. Amélie Derbaudrenghien Michel, European Council, Partner to the President of the European CouncilPrime Minister Fumio Kishida, JapanPrime Minister Mario Draghi, ItalyPrime Minister Boris Johnson, United Kingdom with Carrie Johnson, Spouse of the Prime MinisterPrime Minister Justin Trudeau, CanadaPresident Emmanuel Macron, France with Mrs. Brigitte Macron, First Lady of the French RepublicChancellor Olaf Scholz, Germany with Ms. Britta Ernst, German Minister of Education, Youth, and of the Federal State of Brandenburg and Spouse to the Federal Chancellor



June 26, 202212:28 CEST

Travel pool report #6: welcome
From copooler Aurelia End
Pool was brought at 11:48 AM to a gravel courtyard bordering Schloss Elmau.
A red carpet and 8 flags - one for every G7 country and the European Union flag - were in place for the official arrival ceremony.
At 11:58 AM we saw POTUS and Olaf Scholz approach and then walk over to the hotel, having concluded their bilateral meeting. Chancellor Scholz's wife, Britta Ernst, was with them.
The French president Emmanuel Macron was next, holding hands with his wife Brigitte Macron and having his jacket casually thrown over his shoulder. The couple also entered the hotel.
At 12:14 PM the chancellor and his wife exited the hotel and started greeting their guests, exchanging pleasantries and posing for pictures.
See list below for order of arrival.
At 12:20 PM Biden arrived.
To a shouted question about his reaction to the latest Russian strike on Kyiv he said: " It's more of their barbarism"
Per the WH, participating in the ceremony:President Ursula von der Leyen, European Commission with Mr. Heiko von der Leyen, Spouse to the President of the European CommissionPresident Charles Michel with Ms. Amélie Derbaudrenghien Michel, European Council, Partner to the President of the European CouncilPrime Minister Fumio Kishida, JapanPrime Minister Mario Draghi, ItalyPrime Minister Boris Johnson, United Kingdom with Carrie Johnson, Spouse of the Prime MinisterPrime Minister Justin Trudeau, CanadaPresident Emmanuel Macron, France with Mrs. Brigitte Macron, First Lady of the French RepublicChancellor Olaf Scholz, Germany with Ms. Britta Ernst, German Minister of Education, Youth, and of the Federal State of Brandenburg and Spouse to the Federal Chancellor



June 26, 202212:33 CEST

Travel pool report #7: Working lunch
Pool was brought in behind the leaders at 12:29, who were already seated. They turned and smiled for photos but ignored a shouted question about strikes on Kyiv.
POTUS was sitting between host Sholz and Boris Johnson.
Pool was ticked off for asking question and we were led out after about 90 seconds
They are seated at a round table on the second floor of the building, with big windows looking out on a craggy view of the Bavarian Alps.
It is taking place in the Yoga Pavilion, which has an 'infinity'-style pool on a terrace below.
Like other outbuildings, it is clad in rustic wooden shingles.



June 26, 202213:07 CEST

Travel pool report #7a: Working lunch comments
You'll have seen Boris Johnson and Justin Trudeau comments from the working lunch starting to appear. There were two waves of poolers pass through the confined space at the lunch, so we think these comments were made after you TV and print poolers were hustled out as none of us picked them up.



June 26, 202214:31 CEST

Travel pool report #8: background briefing
A White House official briefed pool on the summit so far. Covered Ukraine, China, Turkey - mostly all focused on the Sholz bilat
Overview of bilateral with Sholz
'I would characterize the meeting as very warm and friendly. The president expressed his trust in Chancellor Sholz. And really there was was very broad alignment on all of the issues that they discussed and all the common challenges that our countries are working on together.
'As I have previewed in the call this morning, Ukraine was one of the main topics of conversation in the meeting. And again there I would say there is very close alignment between our two countries.
'They discussed the ongoing coordination on the diplomatic front, the provision of security assistance, the provision of economic support and humanitarian assistance to Ukraine.
'The president expressed appreciation for the security assistance that Germany has been providing to Ukraine. And on the defense issue, I think this this came up in the the top of the pool spray, he President also reaffirming appreciation for Germany's decision to increase its own defense spending, which is obviously a critical issue heading into the NATO summit after this.
'They touched on China, which I think is going to continue to be a broad theme for this trip. A year ago, you'll remember China was mentioned in the G7 leader statement was also mentioned for the first time in the NATO leader statement. We expect that that's going to be echoed and enhanced in meetings this week, starting at the G7 and then continuing on at NATO including in the strategic concept.
'So the President and Chancellor Sholz also discussed the need for continued close cooperation between the US and the EU in response to China. The two leaders also discussed broad g7 priorities, including climate and the importance of continuing to promote economic resilience and economic prosperity globally.
'And then also a discussion on on infrastructure. Today, of course at the G7 there is a infrastructure focus. There will be a session where leaders are discussing infrastructure.'
AND MILITARY ASSISTANCE ANNOUNCEMENTS COMING?
'I would leave it to the Germans to preview any of their announcements. But there was discussion, with the president expressing appreciation for what Germany has already committed to doing, including their defense minister last week announcing plans to send the additional MLRS systems that go along with the assistance that the US has provided.'
IS BIDEN ASKING EUROPEANS TO DO MORE?
Zelinsky is going to participate in the G7 meeting. He's going to participate in the NATO meeting, the US has been by far the biggest provider of security assistance to Ukraine. The president, as well as Secretary Austin, the rest of the administration have continued to encourage other countries to provide weapons.
'Secretary Austin, I think it was last week held the second in person meeting of the Defense Contact Group, which was again a way of allies coming together.
'The Germans made an announcement on their MLRS systems at at that meeting, so that I think was was really the near term opportunity. To make a push on security assistance. You know, clearly all of these leaders have their own conversations with President Zelensky. Zelensky has made clear what they're engaging in in terms of this phase of the conflict in the Donbass and the types of security assistance that they need.'
DISCUSSION OF OIL PRICE CAP? 'there was not extensive discussion of price cap. I think, you know, a number of these issues were discussed in in a broad framework, but most of the detailed discussion on all of these issues is being handled by Sherpas within the framework of the g7 meetings themselves.'
ANY SENSE OF ENDORSING IDEA OF CEDING UKRAINIAN TERRITORY IN A PEACE DEAL
'Really, I think there is broad agreement across the board on the approach to Ukraine. Chancellor Sholz, of course, was just there a couple of weeks ago with the other European leaders.
'And as I said, I think there was a continued commitment by both President Biden and Chancellor Sholz to continue providing security assistance to Ukraine. I think both of them agree with President Zelensky that ultimately there needs to be a negotiated resolution to the conflict. But they did not get into specific details about how to achieve that. And I think both of us have the same broad approach to the diplomatic solution.'
ANY DISCUSSION OF DIVERTING CROPS FROM BIOFUELS TO AVERT FOOD CRISIS?
'So this again, is another one of those issues that's being handled in in Sherpa channels. That was not discussed. I mean, the meeting really focused on a lot of the big picture agenda setting items and then all of the leading negotiations on these things is being left to the Sherpas.'
CHINA IN G7 AND NATO STATEMENTS
'So just as teams are continuing to work here on the g7 document teams are continuing to make final tweaks on the strategic concept. So those conversations are ongoing. I think we're very confident we're gonna get to a good place. And then we're gonna have strong China language in the NATO Strategic Concept, which will be I think, you know, a significant improvement or change from 2010 when China was not mentioned and Russia I think was was called a strategic partner or something.
ON US POLARIZATION AND DOMESTIC POLITICS INTERFERING IN PROGRESS'I think if you if you look at a lot of the European leaders, you know, there's a number of countries that have had elections. Everybody has their own domestic politics similar to the US having domestic politics.
'I certainly have not heard any conversations thus far on the margins of the meetings or wouldn't expect in the formal sessions that that to be a topic of conversation. I think everybody really is focused on getting done what we can do now. You know, I think the president has continued to make clear publicly. He's also made this clear in his private meetings with Chancellor Sholtz, I'm sure he will do it next week at NATO as well, reiterating his priority of coming in and wanting to restore alliances. And Germany, I think, is is one of those countries where he has invested heavily...
ANY UPDATE ON US MILITARY VETS HELD BY RUSSIA, TALKS WITH BORIS JOHNSON?
I don't have any updates on the status of that. And I think we just got here at about 1030 this morning. So the President as far as I'm aware, has been I think he's probably interacting with Boris Johnson in now but but that would be the first conversation that they would have had so I can't speak to what they may be speaking about now.'
ANY ERDOGAN MEETING RE FINLAND/SWEDEN
nothing to nothing to announce on that, you know. Continuing to very actively engage with with the Turks with the Swedes and the Finns.
'I spent a lot of time over the last couple of days working on that, Jake Sullivan has been actively involved. Secretary Blinken, you may have seen spoke to the Turkish foreign minister yesterday. So continuing to do everything we can to work with with all of the sides on on this issue. But nothing to announce that at this stage on on NATO.
More tk



June 26, 202214:42 CEST

Travel pool report #9: Family photo
The leaders arrived for the photo at 14:37, led by Sholz and Johnson. Biden wore his Aviators but took them off before taking his position.
They were all tieless.
Sholz said something indistinct about giving the photographers five minutes.
Johnson responded: 'I'd be shocked if they haven't got it.'
Biden looked at the ranks of photographers from left to right. Then it was all over in barely a minute.
As they left Biden, Trudeau, Macron and Ursula von der Leyen lingered to chat.
The photo was taken as they stood on a simple wooden platform set up in front of a spectacular view of the Bavarian Alps.
Again POTUS positioned between Sholz and Johnson, according to G7 protocol



June 26, 202216:35 CEST

Travel pool report #10: POTUS remarks stream
You will be pleased to know that POTUS remarks launching the Global Infrastructure Partnership here at 17:00 local (11:00 Eastern) are being streamed in the usual place (but probably not as pleased as your pooler)
https://www.whitehouse.gov/live/



June 26, 202217:14 CEST

Travel pool report #11: less than two min warning
To infrastructure remarks
The podium is set up in same place where the family photo was, in a grassy meadow bounded by the craggy heights of the Bavarian Alps.



June 26, 202217:20 CEST

Travel pool report #12: remarks
Sholz kicks off proceedings at 17:15 CEST. He says he is co-hosting this event with POTUS.
Other leaders are lined up behind him, all without ties in the hot afternoon sunshine.
POTUS begins speaking at 17:19.



June 26, 202217:31 CEST

Travel pool report #13: POTUS wraps his remarks
POTUS launches his global infrastructure partnership, saying the US will mobilize $200 billion in funding - with some $600 billion mobilized by the G7 nations.
Wraps at 17:28, handing over to European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen
Aviators go back on and he takes up a position behind von der Leyen.



June 26, 202217:51 CEST

Travel pool report #14: Event wraps
Infrastructure event ends at 17:46 after Draghi comments and Sholz thanks attendees.
Biden exited with the other leaders ignoring a shouted question about whether the Roe decision came up in meetings.
Everyone on stage looked as if they were wilting in the strong sun.
Johnson and Macron were not present.
Pool is preparing next for spray at the top of a working dinner.



June 26, 202218:37 CEST

Travel pool report #15: dinner
The G7 leaders could be seen entering the 'Summit Restaurant' through big picture windows at 18:29 as the restricted pool held outside. POTUS led the way as they took their seats.
They took off their jackets as they sat down.
We were taken in once they were seated around a circular table at 18: 32:. Again POTUS is between the host Scholz and the UK's Johnson.
Johnson gave a thumbs up to pool and made some broadly inaudible comments about the media. But made no comments about Putin.
Ursula von der Leyen had a big case by her side and was pulling out files as we left.
We were ushered out after about one minute of scrimmaging for space on the designated orange carpet.
The room is a small dining room with a fire blazing in a fireplace at the far end of the room - despite near 80F temperature outside.
The table is laid for dinner, but with microphones at each place setting.



June 26, 202219:16 CEST

Travel pool note #1: for planning
Pool is holding in media center while leaders have their dinner. We are expecting one more event before the evening is out.



June 26, 202219:58 CEST

Travel pool report #16: Pool gathering
Pool has assembled in the field where the family photo took place earlier. The famous wooden bench - where Obama and Merkel had their moment in 2015 - is in pride of place.
So you can guess what we are expecting




June 26, 202220:48 CEST

Travel pool report #17: photo and Roe
The leaders arrived at the meadow with the bench at 20:40
'what's the shot?' asked Johnson
Then the leaders debated which side of the bench to stand on.
'that's the back,' said someone as chaos briefly ensued. They eventually lined up with their backs to the mountain.
They shifted one way to keep the photographers happy, and then Johnson put his arms around Scholz on one side and Trudeau on the other.
Then as they left, POTUS walked past pool position
Biden responded to a question shouted: ' has the Roe decision come up in any of the meetings?'
'...not related to Ukraine or any of the issues we discussed,' he said
Have any of the leaders brought it up?
'no,' he said, before continuing on his way at about 20:44



June 26, 202220:56 CEST

Travel pool report #18: lid
At 20:49 local.
Thanks to all my copoolers especially Aurelia for keeping me in quotes and Karen for keeping me in power




  