
    Mitt Romney today announced the leadership team of his Hispanic Steering Committee, "Juntos Con Romney." The group will be led by National Chairmen Former Secretary of Commerce Carlos Gutierrez, Former Attorney General of Puerto Rico Jose Fuentes, and Former Administrator of the Small Business Administration Hector Barreto. Other prominent Hispanic leaders from across the country will serve on the leadership team and help guide the campaign on important Hispanic initiatives and outreach.
"The Hispanic community has been especially hard-hit by President Obama's policies," said Secretary Gutierrez. "Instead of spurring economic growth and creating jobs, President Obama has only expanded government and hurt job-creation. We need a leader who will bring back jobs, help small businesses, and ensure that the American Dream remains for future generations. Mitt Romney has a proven record of creating jobs both in the private sector and as governor. Together with Mitt Romney, we will be able to do what President Obama has failed to do: fix the economy, create jobs, and get our country on the right track again."
"President Obama's failed economic policies have not helped Hispanics as he promised they would," said Jose Fuentes. "All across America, businesses are failing and families are struggling. We cannot sit idly by while President Obama piles up more debt and implements more job-killing policies. Mitt Romney is a bold leader who has shown through his experience in both government and business that he knows how to create jobs and restore economic security. I'm proud to stand with him."
"America can do better. These last four years have seen record unemployment, homes foreclosed, and the middle class struggling like never before," said Hector Barreto. "We need a leader who will spur economic growth and reignite the American Dream for all our citizens. That man is Mitt Romney. I'm honored to stand together with him and his campaign to get our country back on track."
"Mitt Romney has the experience we need to turn around this economy," said Puerto Rico Governor Luis Fortuño. "He spent his life in the real world, creating jobs for middle class families and growing businesses. As Governor of Massachusetts, he turned a $3 billion deficit into a $2 billion rainy day fund. I can't think of better qualifications than that to tackle our record unemployment and skyrocketing debt. With so many Hispanic families struggling, we need a leader who will make the American Dream a reality for all. That's why I'm so proud to join his team."
"We need a leader who will reverse President Obama's failed record and give everyone a fair shot at the American Dream," said Governor Brian Sandoval. "As president, Mitt Romney will put jobs first and promote policies that will restore the middle class. I am honored to stand together with Mitt Romney to fight for the economic security we all deserve."
"Mitt Romney is a problem-solver who has a record of delivering real results," said Governor Susana Martinez. "Whether it was helping start companies in the private sector, rescuing the Olympics, or creating jobs and reducing spending as governor, Mitt Romney has demonstrated throughout his life that he can lead during tough times. President Obama has taken the country in the wrong direction and it will take a proven leader like Mitt Romney to turn things around. I am proud to stand with him and look forward to working to get him elected."
"President Obama inspired many Americans in 2008, but since then he has deliberately pitted Americans against each other, failing to live up to the promises of his 2008 campaign," said Senator Marco Rubio. "He has failed to fix our economy, bring back jobs, lower gas prices, and stop runaway government spending. We are not better off than we were three and a half years ago when he took office. We need to take a new course. Mitt Romney will bring his economic experience from the private sector and record of creating jobs and lowering spending as governor to Washington and will be able to restore America's promise."
National Chairmen:
Secretary Carlos Gutierrez
Jose Fuentes
Hector Barreto
Honorary Co-Chairmen And Co-Chairwomen:
Gov. Luis Fortuño (Puerto Rico)
Gov. Brian Sandoval (NV)
Gov. Susana Martinez (NM)
Sen. Marco Rubio (FL)
National Advisory Board:
Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (FL)
Former Sen. Mel Martinez (FL)
Former Gov. Jeb Bush (FL)
Rep. Jaime Herrera Beutler (WA)
Former Rep. Lincoln Diaz-Balart (FL)
Rep. Mario Diaz-Balart (FL)
Rep. Raul Labrador (ID)
Rep. Quico Canseco (TX)
Former Interior Secretary and Former Rep. Manuel Lujan (NM)
State Sen. Anitere Flores (FL)
George P. Bush
Rudy Fernandez
Josefina Carbonell
Cari Dominguez
  