
    Pool Reports by Morgan Chalfant, The Hill 



Sent:
Reports:




June 23, 202212:32

VP pool report #1
Hi all,
I'll be your print pooler for the vice president's meeting with state attorneys general this afternoon. Below you'll find some background from the White House. The event is supposed to stream live on the White House website (https://www.whitehouse.gov/live/) but I'll send any color and timing updates. Feel free to reach out with any questions
On Background from a White House Official
Today, June 23 at 12:45 PM ET, Vice President Kamala Harris will convene State Attorneys General to discuss the fight for reproductive rights. She will thank them for their leadership protecting access to reproductive health care, and she will amplify actions they are taking as models for other states. The Vice President has a long record of fighting for the health, safety, and wellbeing of women, including while serving as the Attorney General of California. The Vice President's opening remarks will be livestreamed at www.whitehouse.gov/live.
Participants:
Attorney General Josh Kaul (Wisconsin)
Attorney General Aaron Ford (Nevada)
Attorney General Raoul Kwame (Illinois)
Chief Deputy Attorney General Venus Johnson (California)
Attorney General Kathleen Jennings (Delaware) (virtual)
Attorney General Tish James (New York) (virtual)
Attorney General Bob Ferguson (Washington state) (virtual)
Additional Background:

Vice President Harris is playing a lead role championing and protecting reproductive rights. She has forcefully spoken out about the Supreme Court's leaked opinion in Dobbs v. Jackson Women's Health Organization, convened experts and advocates, and she will continue to make the case for protecting reproductive health care access and the right to privacy.

On June 22, 2022, the Vice President convened a coalition call with thousands of advocates to discuss the fight to protect reproductive rights.
On June 14, 2022, the Vice President convened constitutional law, privacy, and technology experts to discuss what is at stake if Roe v. Wade is overruled. (Remarks; Readout)
On June 6, 2022, the Vice President convened faith leaders to discuss reproductive rights and the path forward. (Remarks; Readout)
On June 2, 2022, the Vice President Harris released a video about what is at stake with Roe v. Wade. (Video; Article)
On May 11, 2022, the Vice President virtually met with doctors and nurses on the frontlines about the impact that overturning Roe v. Wade would have on reproductive health care. (Remarks; Readout)
On January 22, 2022, following the oral arguments in Dobbs, the Vice President released a video marking the 49th anniversary of Roe v. Wade. (Video; Article)
On September 9, 2021, the Vice President met with reproductive health providers and patients at the White House to discuss the impact of Texas Senate Bill 8 and other restrictions on reproductive health. (Remarks)


Vice President Harris is a longtime supporter of codifying Roe in federal legislation.

On May 11, 2022, she presided over the Senate's vote on the Women's Health Protection Act. (Video)


Vice President Harris is a longtime champion of protecting reproductive rights.

As California Attorney General, she signed onto multiple amicus briefs to ensure women have full access to their reproductive health care.


The Biden-Harris Administration has made historic commitments to advancing gender equality, including standing up the White House's first-ever Gender Policy Council, dedicated to driving a whole-of-government effort that is advancing gender equity and equality, from championing women's access to high quality and equitable health care; to women's rights, equal opportunities and pay, equal protection, and safety from gender-based harassment and violence.

The President and Vice President have continued to stand side by side with women to protect and defend the long-recognized, constitutional right to abortion.
In response to Texas's SB 8, the President and Vice President strongly denounced the law as an affront to a woman's constitutional rights. (Statement). The President and Vice President directed the Gender Policy Council and White House Counsel to lead a whole-of-government effort to protect women's rights across this country.
The Biden-Harris Administration is continuing to speak out as extremist Republican legislators are weaponizing the use of the law in states across the country to punish and criminalize women.


Vice President Harris will continue to work with Members of Congress, state advocates and legislators, stakeholders, and those on the frontlines of the fight to protect reproductive rights.




June 23, 202212:50

VP pool report #2 - event underway
Pool was let into the Vice president's ceremonial office at 12:47pm. Harris began by addressing the SCOTUS ruling on guns, saying it "defies logic."
Again, the event is being streamed.



June 23, 202212:57

VP pool report #3
Pool was ushered out of the room at 12:52pm after a few minutes of remarks from Harris.




  