
    To the Congress of the United States:
In accordance with subsection 402(d)(5) of the Trade Act of 1974, I transmit herewith my recommendation for a further 12-month extension of the authority to waive subsections (a) and (b) of section 402 of the Act.
I include as part of my recommendation my determination that further extension of the waiver authority, and continuation of the waivers applicable to the Socialist Republic of Romania, the Hungarian People's Republic, and the People's Republic of China will substantially promote the objectives of section 402.
This recommendation also includes my reasons for recommending the extension of waiver authority and for my determination that continuation of the three waivers currently in effect will substantially promote the objectives of section 402.
RONALD REAGAN
The White House,
June 2, 1981.
Recommendation for Extension of Waiver Authority
I recommend to the Congress that the waiver authority granted by subsection 402(c) of the Trade Act of 1974 (hereinafter "the Act") be further extended for twelve months. Pursuant to subsection 402(d)(5) of the Act, I have today determined that further extension of such authority, and continuation of the waivers currently applicable to the Socialist Republic of Romania, the Hungarian People's Republic, and the People's Republic of China will substantially promote the objectives of section 402 of the Act. My determination is attached to this Recommendation and is incorporated herein.
The general waiver authority conferred by section 402(e) of the Act is an important means for the strengthening of mutually beneficial relations between the United States and certain countries of Eastern Europe and the People's Republic of China. The waiver authority has permitted us to conclude and maintain in force bilateral trade agreements with Romania, Hungary, and the People's Republic of China. These agreements are fundamental elements in our political and economic relations with those countries, including our important productive exchanges on human rights and emigration matters. Moreover, continuation of the waiver authority might permit future expansion of our bilateral relations with other countries now subject to subsection 402 (a) and (b) of the Act, should circumstances permit. I believe that these considerations clearly warrant this recommendation for expansion of the general waiver authority.
I also believe that continuing the current waivers applicable to Romania, Hungary and the People's Republic of China will substantially promote the objectives of section 402 of the Act.
Romania—Emigration from Romania to the United States has increased substantially since the waiver has been in effect. In 1980, more than 2,800 persons emigrated from Romania to the United States. This is nearly seven times the pre-MFN level of emigration and almost twice the 1979 level. Continuation of the waiver will also contribute to maintaining a framework for dialogue with the Romanian Government on emigration procedures, emigration to Israel, binational marriages, and other humanitarian problems.
Hungary-,In March 1978 the Hungarian Government stressed to the U.S. Government that it intended to deal with emigration matters in a responsible and humanitarian way. Since that time the actions of Hungarian authorities have been consistent with this policy. A large majority of Hungarians seeking to emigrate are able to do so without undue difficulty. Very few problem cases arise, and U.S. officials are able to discuss these constructively with the Hungarian Government. Most problem cases ultimately are favorably resolved.
People's Republic of China—During the past year, China has continued its commitment to open emigration, exemplified by its undertaking in the September 1980 U.S. China Consular Convention to facilitate family reunification. Our posts in China issued over 3,400 immigrant visas in FY1980, and over 12,800 nonimmigrant visas for business, study and family visits. More than 5,000 Chinese now have come to the United States since 1979 for long term study and research. As has been the case for the past several years, the numerical limits imposed on entry to the U.S. by our immigration law continue to be a more significant impediment to immigration from China than Chinese Government exit controls. The Chinese Government is aware of our interest in open emigration, and extension of the waiver will encourage the Chinese to maintain its present travel and emigration policies.
In light of these considerations, I have determined that continuation of the waivers applicable to Romania, Hungary, and the People's Republic of China will substantially promote the objectives of section 402 of the Act.
  