
    The President. As all of you know, we got some good news from the homefront today. The unemployment rate has dropped almost a half a point to 6 percent. We now know that over 3.3 million new jobs have come into the economy in the last 16 months. The economy is creating jobs at 7 times the rate of the previous 4 years. I think this is most of all a tribute to the American people, but clearly supports the wisdom of the economic strategy we have been following: a determined effort to bring the deficit down, to get investment in education and training and new technologies up, to expand trade.
We have to stay on this course. We have to pass this new budget. We have to keep going. This is the thing which will enable us to do the other kinds of reform and renewals that we need to do in America. I am very, very encouraged.
And again, I want to say how much I appreciate the work that was done by the Congress last year in passing this tough economic program. There is no question that it spurred an enormous percentage of this activity. And I am very pleased by it.
North Korea
Q. Mr. President, have you spoken to Boris Yeltsin about the situation in North Korea?
The President. No, I have not talked to President Yeltsin or President Kim, but I will today. And I don't think I should—I have nothing to add to what I said yesterday except to tell you that I will talk to them, and after I do I'll be glad to——
Q. Do you support his proposal for an international conference on the situation?
The President. I don't want to say anything about President Yeltsin or President Kim until I talk to them today. I have to talk——
Q. [Inaudible]—say something about the United Nations, whether you think the United Nations is up on this. It has not done a very good job in Bosnia and other parts of the world.
Are the allies strong enough to stand up to this regime?
The President. I have nothing to add to what I've already said about it right now.
Thank you.
Nettuno Memorial Ceremony
Q. How do you feel about this morning's ceremonies, Mr. President? Could you chat about that for a moment?
The President. I was very proud. I was very proud, and I was terribly moved by what the veterans and their family members said after the ceremony. There were so many who felt that for the first time in 50 years our country and the world had recognized the importance of the Italian campaign and the massive sacrifices that were made there. It was very moving, and I was very proud.
Q. Did you think about your father, Mr. President? I know you mentioned——
The President. Yes, I did.
  