
    Serving California's 24th District in the U.S. House, Carbajal is a military veteran who can attest to Beto's dedicated work on the Armed Services Committee and on behalf of those who served.
EL PASO, TEXAS — Congressman Salud Carbajal (CA-24) endorsed Beto O'Rourke for President of the United States today, praising him for his past congressional work and new policy plan to help veterans across the country. O'Rourke served alongside Congressman Carbajal for six years in the House where they both worked on the Armed Services Committee. Carbajal's endorsement followed the release of Beto's plan to support America's veterans that will improve services for the men and women who have put their lives on the line to protect our country.
"While serving together on the Armed Services Committee, I saw Beto lead on the most pressing issues confronting our brave women and men in the military. His dedication to both active service members and veterans is exactly the type of leadership we need in a Commander in Chief," said Congressman Carbajal (CA-24). "Beto is the fighter we need right now to bring more people into this democracy, defeat Donald Trump, and deliver for those in California and across this country."
"It's an honor to have the endorsement of Congressman Carbajal in our grassroots campaign to represent and fight for all Americans -- especially our nation's veterans and their families. As long as I've known him, he's been a champion for California and the thousands of members of our armed services across the country," said O'Rourke.
Today's news follows endorsements from Congresswoman Veronica Escobar (TX-16), Congresswoman Kathleen Rice (NY-04), Congresswoman Stephanie Murphy (FL-07), Congressman Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18), and others.
Beto's newly released veterans plan would bring a responsible end to the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq and reinvest the savings to ensure our veterans have the educational, job training, housing, and wrap-around resources they need. It would improve veterans mental and physical health care in this country by modernizing the VA so that it is a leader for the rest of the health care system, and would ensure that all veterans, regardless of sexual orientation or gender identity, and their families, are treated with dignity and respect. The plan would also create a new Veterans Health Care Trust Fund (VHCTF) for each new war we fight, which would be used to fund the medical needs of our veterans.
  