
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate five individuals and appoint three individuals to serve in his Administration:
The President intends to nominate Kevin I. Fromer, of Virginia, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Treasury (Legislative Affairs). Mr. Fromer currently serves as Assistant to the Speaker for Policy, Budget and Appropriations in the Office of the Speaker of the U.S. House of Representatives. He previously served as Chief of Staff to Congressman Harold Rogers. Earlier in his career, Mr. Fromer served as associate staff to the U.S. House Committee on Appropriations. He earned his bachelor's degree from the University of Virginia.
The President intends to nominate John R. Beyrle, of Michigan, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Bulgaria. A career member of the Senior Foreign Service, Mr. Beyrle currently serves as Deputy Chief of Mission in Moscow. Prior to this assignment, he was Senior Advisor to the Office of the New Independent States at the Department of State. Earlier in his career, Mr. Beyrle served as Counselor for Political Affairs in the U.S. Embassy in Prague. He earned his bachelor's degree from Grand Valley State College and his master's degree from the National Defense University.
The President intends to nominate Charles A. Ford, of Virginia, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Honduras. A Career Minister in the Senior Foreign Service of the U.S. Department of Commerce, Mr. Ford currently serves as Senior Advisor to the Assistant Secretary of Commerce for the U.S. and Foreign Commercial Service. He previously served as Special Advisor to the Assistant Secretary of State for Economic and Business Affairs. Earlier in his career, he served as Deputy Assistant Secretary for International Operations for the Foreign Commercial Service and as Senior Commercial Officer at the U.S. Mission to the European Union. He earned his bachelor's degree from the College of William and Mary and his master's degree from The George Washington University.
The President intends to nominate Katherine Hubay Peterson, of California, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Botswana. A career member of the Senior Foreign Service, Ms. Peterson currently serves as Director of the Foreign Service Institute at the Department of State. She previously served as U.S. Ambassador to the Kingdom of Lesotho. Prior to that, Ambassador Peterson was Managing Director of the Office of Overseas Citizen Services in the Bureau of Consular Affairs at the Department of State. She received her bachelor's degree from the University of California at Santa Cruz.
The President intends to nominate Marie L. Yovanovitch, of Connecticut, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Kyrgyz Republic. A career member of the Senior Foreign Service, Ms. Yovanovitch most recently served as Senior Advisor to the Under Secretary of State for Political Affairs. Prior to that assignment, she served as Deputy Chief of Mission in Kiev. Ms. Yovanovitch has also served as Deputy Director of the Russia Desk at the Department of State and as a political officer in Moscow. She earned her bachelor's degree from Princeton University.
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the Board of Directors of the Presidio Trust, for the remainder of a four-year term expiring May 4, 2009:
T. Robert Burke of California
Nancy Rowe Conner of California
Curtis Frederick Feeny of California
  