
    Pool Reports by James Call, Tallahassee Democrat/USA Today Florida 



Sent:
Reports:




June 10, 202111:17

Second Gentleman Tallahassee Pool Report #1
Second Gentleman Doug Emhoff arrived at the Neighborhood Medical Center in Tallahassee at 10: 48 a.m. and was greeted by CEO Jeanne Feeman and immediately taken to vaccination clinic were a rising high school junior received the second doze of the Pfizer vaccine.
The Center, in one of Florida’s poorest zip codes, is a Leon County Florida Health Department comprehensive medical neighborhood clinic for Medicaid-eligible residents and others on a sliding scale according to income.
President Joe Biden has engaged Vice President Kamala Harris and spouse Emhoff in a push to have 70% of the adult population partially vaccinated by July 4.
He has deployed both across the south to encourage people to get the shot this month, declaring June a "national month of action."
While in Tallahassee Emhoff is scheduled to view a vaccination clinic and hold a roundtable discussion with community leaders along with education and public policy experts from Florida State and Florida A&M universities.



June 10, 202113:03

Second Gentleman Tallahassee Pool #2
Emhoff opened a discussion with seven community leaders by thanking them for their efforts to promote the administration's efforts to vaccinate more than 70% of the American adult population.
He asked Corrington Whigham, Florida A&M University student government president, why the SGA launched a social media campaign to get "folks to understand that the vaccine works."
"This his has been a hard year, really tough (but) it's starting to get better We have more than half of Americans fully vaccinated things are getting back to normal life, sporting events, weddings and all the things people want to do this summer."
"We have to form a united front to show that this is the only way to get rid of this" said Carrington.
Emhoff concluded the roundtable discussion at 11:39 and the group posed for photos.



June 10, 202112:29

Second Gentleman Tallahassee Pool Report #3
Second Gentleman Douglas Emhoff concluded his visit to Tallahassee's Neighborhood Medical Center with at 11:49 a.m. with an inspection of a mobile vaccination center.
"If you can't come here (to the Medical Center) they're going to come to you and make sure that you can get your vaccines," said Emhoff existing from a DuraStar International truck and trailer converted into a mobile medical clinic.
Asked what he thought of the efforts in Tallahassee to get more people vaccinated against the coronavirus, Emhoff paused and thanked the local group of social workers, medical professions, students and civic leaders for their "grass-roots" efforts to fight the pandemic.
"You've heard what I heard about this community coming together. It's free and easy to get (vacinated) in Tallahassee," said Emhoff. "They're out there fighting the misinformation, talking about doing it not for yourself, but do it for others … let's get to that 70%."
And with that, Emhoff was led by security to his unmarked vehicle and concluded the first ever visit by a Second Gentleman of the United States to Tallahassee, Florida.




  