
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

America's 1572 symphony and chamber orchestras are among this Nation's finest cultural and artistic resources. Each year, our orchestras provide inspiration and enjoyment to more than 23 million people throughout the country.
This country's orchestras are internationally recognized as being among the finest in the world. They set the standards of excellence against which other musical endeavors are measured.
Orchestras contribute more to their community than fine concert music. Today, orchestras serve their communities in many ways. They reach audiences beyond the concert hall through regional and national tours, free outdoor concerts and benefit performances. In addition, orchestras offer educational programs which introduce school age children to the lasting beauty of music. Orchestras also cooperate in joint artistic ventures, thereby helping to support a multitude of additional arts activity in their communities.
The success of America's orchestras has been the result of the combined effort of skilled professionals and dedicated volunteers. It is their partnership with the government and the private sector which enables them to promote and produce music in their communities.
These orchestras provide the opportunity for American trained musicians and conductors to promote the performance of American music. The American orchestra both builds and preserves our Nation's heritage.
In recognition of the contribution of America's orchestras to the Nation, Congress has, by Senate Joint Resolution 145, requested me to designate June 13-19, 1982, as National Orchestra Week.
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan, President of the United States of America, do hereby designate the week of June 13-19, 1982 as National Orchestra Week and call upon all Federal, State and local government agencies, interested groups and organizations, and the people of the United States to observe that week by engaging in appropriate programs and activities, thereby showing their support of America's orchestras and the arts.
In Witness Whereof I have hereunto set my hand this 1st day of June, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-two, and of the Independence of United States of America the two hundred and sixth.

RONALD REAGAN
  