
    President Trump. I want to thank the President of South Korea, President Moon, for being here. We had a great afternoon yesterday. We had fantastic dinner at the White House, accomplished a lot, having to do with our thoughts on North Korea and, very much, our thoughts on trade.
We are renegotiating a trade deal right now as we speak with South Korea, and hopefully, it will be an equitable deal, it will be a fair deal to both parties. It's been a rough deal for the United States, but I think that it will be much different and it will be good for both parties. So we're in the process of doing that.
We're also in the process of discussing our, frankly, many options—and we have many options—with respect to North Korea.
Thank you very much. President.
[At this point, an interpreter spoke briefly to President Trump.]
Yes.
[The interpreter translated President's Trump's remarks for President Moon, while many reporters asked questions and cameras clicked. President Trump then spoke as follows.]
The President will speak.
President Moon. I would like to thank President Trump once again for inviting me to the White House and for his warm welcome. When I was inaugurated—when I won the election last month, President Trump was the first among all foreign leaders to call me to congratulate me. I believe that was to reconfirm the strength of the Korea-U.S. alliance and also President Trump's warm message to the Korean people who had been suffering through political turmoil.
Last night, at the dinner with President Trump, we discussed various issues through a diverse scope and very honest discussions on issues to include the North Korean nuclear issue and other issues of mutual interest. It was a great opportunity for us to further our—the trust and friendship between me and President Trump. It was also an opportunity for us to reconfirm the fact that the United States and Korea are walking together on the same path towards a great alliance.
So I hope that through this summit meeting today, I hope that our relationship can further develop into a more meaningful and fruitful relationship.
Thank you very much.
President Trump. What many people don't know is that South Korea is a major trading partner with the United States, and we want something that's going to be good for the American worker. And I think we'll be able to do that today, and I think we'll be able to do many other things. So the relationship is very, very strong, and our personal relationship with President Moon—our personal relationship is very, very good.
Thank you very much, everybody. Thank you.
  