
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate two individuals, appoint four individuals and designate two individuals to serve in his Administration.
The President intends to nominate Scott M. Burns, of Utah, to be Deputy Director of National Drug Control Policy. Mr. Burns currently serves as Deputy Director for State, Local, and Tribal Affairs at the Office of National Drug Control Policy. Prior to this, he served as the County Attorney of Iron County, Utah. Earlier in his career, he served as an Adjunct Professor at Southern Utah University. Mr. Burns received his bachelor's degree from Southern Utah University and his JD from California Western School of Law.
The President intends to nominate W. Ross Ashley, III, of Virginia, to be an Assistant Administrator (Grant Programs) of the Federal Emergency Management Agency. Mr. Ashley most recently served as Chief Executive Officer of the National Children's Center, Inc. Prior to this, he served as Vice President of Government Services at ChoicePoint, Inc. Earlier in his career, he served as Founder and Executive Vice President of the Templar Corporation and served 20 years in the United States Air Force Reserves and National Guard. Mr. Ashley received his bachelor's degree from George Mason University and his master's degree from the Joint Military Intelligence College.
The President intends to appoint General Wayne A. Downing, USA, Ret., of Illinois, to be a Member of the American Battle Monuments Commission.
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the Advisory Committee to the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation:
R. Todd Gardenhire, of Tennessee, (Employer Representative), for the remainder of a three-year term expiring 02/19/10 and upon appointment designate Chairman;
Paul Clinton Harris, Sr., of Virginia, (Public Representative), for the remainder of a three-year term expiring 02/19/10;
Richard A. Manka, of Kansas, (Employer Representative), for the remainder of a three-year term expiring 02/19/10.
The President intends to designate Craig W. Duehring, of Minnesota, to be Acting Assistant Secretary of the Air Force (Manpower and Reserve Affairs).
  