
    Today, President George W. Bush announced his intention to nominate five individuals to serve in his Administration.
The President intends to nominate J. Patrick Rowan, of Maryland, to be Assistant Attorney General (National Security Division) at the Department of Justice. Mr. Rowan currently serves as Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General (National Security Division) at the Department of Justice. Prior to this, he served as Associate Deputy Attorney General in the Office of the Deputy Attorney General at the Department of Justice. Earlier in his career, he served as Senior Counsel to the Assistant Attorney General. Mr. Rowan received his bachelor's degree from Dartmouth College and his JD from the University of Virginia.
The President intends to nominate Brent R. Orrell, of Virginia, to be Assistant Secretary of Labor (Employment and Training). Mr. Orrell currently serves as Deputy Assistant Secretary for Employment and Training at the Department of Labor. Prior to this, he served as Deputy Assistant Secretary for Policy at the Administration for Children and Families within the Department of Health and Human Services. Earlier in his career, he served as a Legislative Director to Senator Sam Brownback. Mr. Orrell received his bachelor's degree from the University of Oregon.
The President intends to nominate Richard G. Olson, Jr., of New Mexico, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the United Arab Emirates. Mr. Olson, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, currently serves as Deputy United States Permanent Representative to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. Prior to this, he served as Director of the Office of Iraq Affairs in the Bureau of Near Eastern Affairs at the Department of State. Earlier in his career, he served as Governorate Coordinator for the Province of Najaf in Iraq. Mr. Olson received his bachelor's degree from Brown University.
The President intends to nominate the following individuals to be Members of the National Institute for Literacy Advisory Board:
Diane Barone, of Nevada, for the remainder of a three-year term expiring 01/30/11;
Mary E. Curtis, of Massachusetts, for the remainder of a three-year term expiring 11/25/11.
  