
    The President today announced his intention to appoint the following individuals to be members of the President's Advisory Council on Private Sector Initiatives:
Paul J. Adams is principal at Providence-St. Mel High School in Chicago, Ill.
Ann Ascher is president of Ann Ascher Interiors, Inc., in Los Angeles, Calif.
Malcolm Baldrige is Secretary of the Department of Commerce in Washington, D.C.
George Ball is president and chief executive officer of Prudential-Bache Securities in Short Hills, N.J.
Terrel H. Bell is Secretary of the Department of Education in Washington, D.C.
John R. Block is Secretary of the Department of Agriculture in Washington, D.C.
Edmund T. Cranch is president of Worcester Polytech Institute in Worcester, Mass.
Michael K. Deaver is Deputy Chief of Staff to the President in Washington, D.C.
Elizabeth Dole is Secretary of the Department of Transportation in Washington, D.C.
Raymond Donovan is Secretary of the Department of Labor in Washington, D.C.
John "Jock" Elliott is chairman emeritus of Ogilvy & Mather in New York, N.Y.
Thomas W. Evans is a partner in the law firm of Mudge, Rose, Guthrie, Alexander & Ferdon in New York, N.Y.
Margaret M. Heckler is Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services in Washington, D.C.
John Cardinal Krol is Archbishop of Philadelphia, Pa.
Fred Malek is executive vice president of the Marriott Corp. in McLean, Va.
John McClaughry is president of the Institute for Liberty and Community in Concord, Vt.
Joyce Miller is vice president and director of social services for the Amalgamated Clothing and Textile Workers Union in Guttenberg, NJ.
Robert W. Miller is president of Freedoms Foundation in Valley Forge, Pa.
Robert Mosbacher, Jr., is vice president of Mosbacher Production Co. in Houston, Tex.
Donald E. Nordlund is chairman and chief executive officer of A. E. Staley Manufacturing Co. in Decatur, Ill.
Thomas W. Pauken is Director of ACTION in Washington, D.C. Samuel R. Pierce, Jr., is Secretary of the Department of Housing and Urban Development in Washington, D.C.
John V. Roach is chairman and chief executive officer of Tandy Corp. in Fort Worth, Tex.
Donald F. Sammis is chairman of the board of the Foundation for Private Sector Innovation in Rancho Santa Fe, Calif.
Alexander Trowbridge is president of the National Association of Manufacturers in Washington, D.C,
C. William Verity, Jr., is chairman of the executive committee of Armco, Inc., in Middletown, Ohio.
Dr. Sheldon Weinig is president of Material Research Corp. in Orangeburg, N.Y.
Robert Woodson is president of the National Center for Neighborhood Enterprise in Washington, D.C.
  