
    THE PRESIDENT. [1.] I want to read you a statement, then you can ask questions.
"The Taft-Hartley labor bill has been passed by the Congress over the President's veto.
"I have expressed my objections to this legislation and my concern as to its effects. Nevertheless, it is now the law of the land. It has become law in accordance with the constitutional processes of our Government. We must all respect its provisions.
"For my part, I want to make it unmistakably clear that, insofar as it lies within my power as President, I shall see that this law is well and faithfully administered.
"I have already received the assurances of the present members of the National Labor Relations Board that they will seek to give the new act the fairest and most efficient administration within their power.
"The persons who are to be appointed to the new offices created under the act will be selected with the same objective. I regard it as of the utmost importance that persons be selected for these offices who have the confidence of management and labor, and who can be depended upon to deal fairly with both. Above all, they should understand the paramount interest of the Nation as a whole.
"Insofar as management and labor are concerned, there is a vital responsibility upon them to comply with the law in a spirit of tolerance and fair play. Neither management nor labor will achieve any long-range benefit by seeking to use the provisions of this act to gain unfair advantage or to sustain arbitrary attitudes. It is in the interests of both to maintain steady production at fair wages while the effect of the new act is being tested by experience. At this time, as at all others, they will serve their mutual welfare best by working together with full recognition by each of the legitimate rights of the other.
"I call upon labor and management, therefore, to exercise patience and moderation in accommodating themselves to the changes made necessary by the act.
"Industrial strife at this critical time can result only in economic dislocation injurious to all of us. If it should reach serious proportions it would threaten the stability of our economy and endanger the peace of the world.
"We cannot afford such a result. It is our solemn duty to make every effort to maintain industrial peace under the provisions of the new law.
"We must all do our part."
That is the end of the statement. Copies of it will be handed to you as you go out.
[2.] Q. Mr. President, may I ask you about this new tax bill that Knutson has introduced, setting back the effective date until January 1, 1948? Would you still be opposed to that ?
THE PRESIDENT. I will take care of that when it comes up here, as I usually do.
[3.] Q. Mr. President, with reference to the discussion now going on in Europe regarding rehabilitation, if the European nations agree on a plan of mutual self-help, is it proposed that the United States would make a contribution to that plan either in dollars or in goods and services?
THE PRESIDENT. General Marshall, I think, covered that very completely in his press conference yesterday, and General Marshall and I are in complete agreement.
Q. I asked the question, sir, because the Secretary of the Treasury's statement yesterday.-
THE PRESIDENT. The Secretary of the Treasury and the Secretary of State and the President are in complete agreement.
[4.] Q. Mr. President, is former Senator La Follette being considered for one of these new labor-management
THE PRESIDENT. No one is at present being considered for any of these jobs.
Q. Have you any idea, Mr. President, about when we could expect some nominations to be
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I will let you know immediately as soon as I am ready to put it out.
[5.] Q. Mr. President, have you any statement on the spreading wildcat strikes in the coal mines ?
THE PRESIDENT. NO, I have no statement on it. No comment.
[6.] Q. Mr. President, have you had an appeal from Mayor Curley for action in his case? 1
THE PRESIDENT. No, I have not.
1 Mayor James M. Curley of Boston had been convicted and sentenced for mail fraud.
Q. Do you plan any action in that case?
THE PRESIDENT. The case has not been put up to me.
[7.] Q. Sir, could you explain what was the reason for withdrawing Wakefield's nomination in sending up 2 --
THE PRESIDENT. I have no comment on that.
2 On June 18 the President withdrew his nomination of Ray C. Wakefield for a new term as Federal Communications Commissioner.
[8.] Your question is answered in the statement that I have just made about this.
Q. As to what? Wildcat--
THE PRESIDENT. Yes.
[9.] Q. Mr. President, our Ambassador to Brazil, Mr. Pawley, is coming back. Would you tell us what that means ?
THE PRESIDENT. That's news to me. I didn't know he was coming back.
Q. Will Secretary Marshall accompany you on your visit to Brazil ?
THE PRESIDENT. There has been no definite arrangement made for a visit to Brazil. The Brazilian Ambassador invited me to come to Brazil, and I told him I would like very much to come, but I could not make any firm commitments on that situation until we found out what the further situation would develop.
Q. Mr. President, aside from a firm commitment on it, there are stories coming out of Brazil that they expect you down there in August. Do you think you can possibly arrange it that soon ?
THE PRESIDENT. No. No. You know that we will be busy as we can be in August.
Q. It didn't look like it from here, but that is coming from down there.
THE PRESIDENT. The Brazilians are a very hospitable people. I know I would have a grand time if I could go down there.
[10.] Q. Mr. President, does your statement on the labor law imply that you will use it, if there is a coal strike this summer threatening the welfare of the Nation?
THE PRESIDENT. The statement speaks for itself. Read it very carefully.
[11.] Q. Referring to Brazil, Mr. President, have you given any thought to going at the time of the proposed Rio conference ?
THE PRESIDENT. That was the objective in view, if the Rio conference is held.
Q. Mr. President, what will you be busy at in August?
THE PRESIDENT. Legislation. If the Congress--
Q. They will be about wound up then, I think. They fixed July 26.
THE PRESIDENT. Have they definitely passed a resolution for July 26?
Q. No.
THE PRESIDENT. They haven't passed any resolution. You see, I served 10 years in the Congress. [Laughter]
Q. Mr. President, does that--your previous reply respecting the conference indicate that you would not go if the conference were held in August?
THE PRESIDENT. Don't put me on the spot in such a manner as that. I don't want to be impolite to our neighbors. I would like to go to Brazil, conference or no conference, but I don't think I will be able to go at the time they are interested in having me come. If there is a conference, I hope I can attend the conference. Let's put it that way.
[12.] Q. Mr. President, could you tell us what you discussed with Ambassador Cooper of Peru yesterday ?
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Cooper was just making a report on conditions in Peru to me.
[13.] Q. Mr. President, does the premonition that Congress may not be able to adjourn before August indicate you may be sending them something else for them to do ?
THE PRESIDENT. If it is necessary for me to send them things to do, I shall certainly do it. [Laughter]
[14.] Q. Do you still hope for universal military training ?
THE PRESIDENT. I certainly do. I think it is absolutely necessary for the peace of the world and the welfare of this country.
[15.] Q. Mr. President, on these wildcat strikes again, has there been any indication that the coal--have you been given any reports that the coal stockpile situation is approaching critical
THE PRESIDENT. No, I have had no reports on that subject.
Q. Mr. President, do you contemplate any injunction against the United Mine Workers?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't contemplate anything against the United Mine Workers at the present time. The Attorney General is looking into the coal situation as it develops, and whatever action can be taken or is necessary to be taken will be taken if it becomes necessary. There is nothing before us at the present time.
[16.] Q. Mr. President, Senator Flanders suggested on the Hill today that you ask for some sort of voluntary meat rationing, in view of the foreign crop situation, to hold down prices, and so forth?
THE PRESIDENT. I made that request, I think, a little over a year ago. It was not complied with.
[17.] Q. Mr. President, do you desire to have the military cooperation bill passed at this session ?
THE PRESIDENT. What's that?
Q. The military cooperation bill with the rest of the hemisphere ?
THE PRESIDENT. Oh yes. That should be passed. General Marshall made the case for that, as did General Eisenhower, the Secretary of War, and the Secretary of the Navy, I think. We are all in agreement.
Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. You're welcome.
  