
    The Rudy Giuliani Presidential Committee announced today his Economic Policy Board. The Board will advise the Mayor on economic policy aimed at restoring fiscal discipline and cutting wasteful Washington spending while keeping taxes low and making government more accountable to taxpayers.
Senior Economic Policy Advisory Board members include Steve Forbes, National Campaign Co-Chair, Bill Simon, Policy Director, and Michael Boskin, Chief Economic Policy Advisor. They join David Malpass, Chief Global Economist of Bear Stearns, Martin Anderson, the Keith and Jan Hurlbut Fellow at the Hoover Institution at Stanford University, and Annelise Anderson, research fellow at the Hoover Institution and a former associate director with the U.S. Office of Management and Budget.
"Our Board is committed to helping Mayor Giuliani develop policies that run government more like a business, slash wasteful government spending, and keep taxes low," Simon said. "Mayor Giuliani is unquestionably the strongest fiscal conservative in this race and has a proven record of fiscal discipline and commitment to tax cuts. We are proud to have these members on our team."
Rudy's Economic Policy Board:
Steve Forbes
Forbes is a distinguished leader in the business community. He is President and Chief Executive Officer of Forbes and Editor-in-Chief of Forbes magazine, and is also a frequent business commentator for Fox News Channel's "Forbes on Fox." In 1985, President Reagan appointed Mr. Forbes as Chairman of the bi-partisan Board for International Broadcasting (BIB), where he directed the programming for Radio Free Europe and Radio Liberty. He was reappointed by President George H.W. Bush and served until 1993. In 1996 and 2000, Mr. Forbes ran as a Republican candidate for president on a platform that advocated a flat income tax. He is currently on the boards of The Ronald Reagan Presidential Foundation, the Heritage Foundation and The Foundation for the Defense of Democracies, and is the author of two books on political and economic policy issues.
Bill Simon
Simon is co-chairman of William E. Simon and Sons, LLC, an investment firm, which he co-founded in 1988 with his father, William E. Simon, Sr., a former United States Treasury Secretary, and his brother J. Peter Simon. He has given speeches to numerous conservative organizations including the Heritage Foundation, Manhattan Institute, Conservative Political Action Conference and the Pacific Research Institute. In addition, he has appeared regularly on FOX News and written articles for the American Spectator and NewsMax.com. He also currently serves as co- chairman of the Cynthia L. and William E. Simon, Jr. Foundation, which helps needy children in urban areas through faith-based efforts. Simon entered the political arena in 2001 as a Republican gubernatorial nominee in California. Early in his career, Simon worked as an Assistant United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York with Mayor Giuliani, who was then the United States Attorney for the Southern District.
Dr. Michael Boskin
Dr. Boskin is T. M. Friedman Professor of Economics and Senior Fellow, Hoover Institution, Stanford University. He is also Research Associate at the National Bureau of Economic Research. He served as Chairman of the President's Council of Economic Advisers (CEA) from 1989 to 1993 and chaired the Commission on the Consumer Price Index.
Dr. Boskin has received numerous professional awards and citations. In addition to Stanford and the University of California, he has taught at Harvard and Yale. He is the author of more than one hundred books and articles. He is internationally recognized for his research on world economic growth, tax and budget theory and policy, Social Security, U.S. saving and consumption patterns, and the implications of changing technology and demography on capital, labor, and product markets.
David Malpass
Malpass is the Chief Global Economist of Bear Stearns. He joined the firm in February 1993 and is a Senior Managing Director. His duties include economic forecasts for the U.S. and major foreign economies, Washington analysis, and global investment themes.
Malpass has held a series of economic appointments during the Reagan and Bush administrations, including six years with Secretary James Baker at the State and Treasury Departments. He was also Republican Staff Director of Congress's Joint Economic Committee and Senior Analyst for Taxes and Trade at the Senate Budget Committee. He has experience with an variety of economic, budget, and international issues, including the 1986 tax cut, the Gramm-Rudman budget law, the savings-and-loan bailout, NAFTA, the Brady plan for developing country debt, and the fast-track trade authority.
Malpass, a graduate of Colorado College, holds a master's degree in business administration from the University of Denver.
Dr. Martin Anderson
Anderson is the Keith and Jan Hurlbut Fellow at the Hoover Institution at Stanford University. He was Assistant to the President for Policy Development under President Ronald Reagan and served as a member of the President's Economic Policy Advisory Board. He is credited with helping to develop "Reaganomics."
Anderson has advised five presidential campaigns on economic policy, including Presidents Richard Nixon, Ronald Reagan, and George W. Bush. He also served in Nixon's administration.
Dr. Anderson holds a Ph.D. in industrial management from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
Annelise Anderson
Anderson is a research fellow at the Hoover Institution. From 1981 to 1983, Anderson served as the associate director for economics and government with the U.S. Office of Management and Budget, where she was responsible for the budgets of five cabinet departments (Treasury, Justice, Commerce, Transportation, and HUD) and over 40 other agencies. She has also advised the governments of Russia, Romania, and the Republic of Georgia on economic reform.
She was also a senior policy adviser to the Ronald Reagan's 1980 presidential campaign. Anderson holds a Ph.D. from Columbia University.
  