
    Today, the AFL-CIO, the nation's largest federation of labor unions, representing 12.5 million members, endorsed Hillary Clinton for president—the latest sign that progressive organizations are uniting behind Clinton as the presumptive Democratic nominee. Upon receiving the endorsement, Clinton released the following statement:"I am honored to have earned the endorsement of the AFL-CIO.
"The AFL-CIO is one of America's most vital organizations, having been on the front lines of the fight for good-paying jobs and careers with benefits and dignity for more than a century. AFL-CIO member unions contribute to virtually every sector of our economy and are on the job in every corner of our country—building our infrastructure, teaching our children, sowing our fields, operating our ports, and entertaining us on stage and screen.
"Members of the AFL-CIO know, as I do, that we are stronger together. We are stronger when we are investing in our country and our future. As President, I will make the biggest investment in infrastructure since the Interstate Highway System—because to build a 21st century economy, we need 21st century roads, ports, transit systems, water systems, and electric grids. We will fight for good schools in every ZIP code—because all of our children deserve a chance to live up to their God-given potential. And we will fight to raise the federal minimum wage back to the highest it's ever been, to finally join all other industrial nations in guaranteeing paid family leave for workers, and at last secure equal pay for women.
"And we know we are stronger when we have each other's backs. Workers' rights to organize, to bargain collectively, to be safe on the job, and to retire with dignity and security after years of hard work are fundamental to our country and to our economy. In too many statehouses across the country—and even in the halls of Congress—these rights are under concerted attack by Republicans and big corporations who have forgotten that a strong economy requires a strong workforce. As President, I will stand proudly with the AFL-CIO and fight to protect the rights and values that helped build the mighty American middle class. Workers will always have a seat at the table and a champion in the White House—because when unions are strong, workers are strong, and when workers are strong, America is strong."
  