
    STATEMENT OF ADMINISTRATION POLICY
(SENT 6/25/91)(House)(Montgomery (D) MS and 35 others)
The Administration does not object to House passage of H.R. 2280, which amends certain veterans' health-care authorities. The Administration, however, will work in the Senate to address objectionable provisions in H.R. 2280, including the following:

—   Section 104, which would increase the maximum grant the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) makes to certain veterans for home improvements and structural alterations. The law now provides a maximum lifetime allowance of $600 for nonservice-connected veterans and $2,500 for service-connected veterans. VA has no evidence that the current level is insufficient to meet the needs of eligible veterans.
—   Section 106, which would expand VA's program for homeless chronically mentally ill veterans, and would authorize a new pilot program to provide services to homeless veterans. Care for homeless veterans is a high priority in VA. Rather than mandate the expansion of VA's homeless program by statute, it would be more appropriate to allow the Department to determine whether expansion is warranted and whether available funds are best used by expanding existing homeless programs.
—   Section 303, which would authorize a new three-year pilot program to fund research related to clinical care. As a practical matter, VA is already doing research in the areas authorized by section 303. A new program of this sort, therefore; is unnecessary.
—   Section 304 would direct the Secretary to prescribe standards, in consultation with the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS), for laboratories in VA medical facilities to ensure that those laboratories produce valid and reliable information. VA would have to report to Congress any differences between the VA standards and standards promulgated by HHS. HHS is currently developing standards and officials of both Departments are working to ensure that VA laboratories meet the objectives of the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments of 1988. Accordingly, consideration of this provision should be deferred.
—   Title IV, which is entitled the "Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder Treatment Act of 1991." VA care for those suffering from post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), should be a high priority. However, legislation directing the precise actions VA must take to meet the needs of those with PTSD is unnecessary. 
  