
    The President today announced the appointments of the 1988-1989 White House fellows. This is the 24th class of fellows since the program began in 1964. The 14 fellows were chosen from among 825 applicants and screened by 11 regional panels. The President's Commission on White House Fellowships, chaired by Vice Admiral James B. Stockdale, USN, Ret., interviewed the 33 national finalists before recommending the 14 persons to the President. Their year of government service will begin September 1, 1988.
Fellows serve for 1 year as Special Assistants to the Vice President, members of the Cabinet, and the President's principal staff. In addition to the work assignments, the fellowship includes an education program that parallels and broadens the unique experience of working at the highest levels of the Federal Government. The program is open to U.S. citizens in the early stages of their careers and from all occupations and professions. Federal Government employees are not eligible, with the exception of career Armed Forces personnel. Leadership, character, intellectual and professional ability, and commitment to community and nation are the principal criteria employed in the selection of fellows.
Applications for the 1989-1990 program are available from the President's Commission on White House Fellowships, 712 Jackson Place, NW, Washington, DC. 20503.
The 1988-89 White House fellows are:
Bradford B. Baker, 28, of Florida. Mr. Baker, an entrepreneur, is currently president of Advanced Printer Technologies, Inc. He is very active in his community, where he has served as president of the Venice, Florida, Chamber of Commerce; a director of the United Way; and as vice president of the Triangle Economic Development Association.
Jeffrey W. Colyer, 28, of Kansas. Dr. Colyer is currently a surgical resident at the Washington Hospital Center. He has worked with the International Medical Corps, designing surgical medic training programs and setting up surgical clinics for the Afghan freedom fighters. In addition to his medical background, he received his master's degree in international relations from Cambridge University.
Charles P. Garcia, 27, of the Republic of Panama. Captain Garcia serves in the U.S. Air Force. He was born in Washington, DC, and raised in Panama, where he is currently stationed. A graduate of the U.S. Air Force Academy, he was chairman of the cadet honor committee. He is the editor-in-chief of the USSOUTHCOM Intelligence Quarterly.
Jonathan D. George, 31, of California. Captain George is currently serving as a U-2 instructor pilot for the U.S. Air Force. He is the recipient of the coveted Koren Kolligian Jr. Trophy, the Distinguished Flying Cross for heroism in flight, and the Humanitarian Service Medal. He is a member of the Comanche Nation of Oklahoma.
David E. Greenberg, 38, of Colorado. Mr. Greenberg is a communications consultant and newspaper columnist in Denver, CO. Active in his community, he is president of the board of directors of the Denver Children's Museum, a trustee of the American Center for International Leadership, an adviser to Governor Roemer's Task Force on AIDS, and a member of the Chancellor's Advisory Board at the University of Colorado at Denver.
Nancy J. Kelley, 32, of Connecticut. Mrs. Kelley is a recent graduate of the Harvard Law School and the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University. While at Harvard, she was director of the Community Revitalization Project. A magna cum laude graduate of Yale University, she was a Harry Truman scholar and banner bearer for Saybrook College.
Michael T. Lempres, 28, of California. Mr. Lempres is an attorney with the law firm of McCutchen, Doyle, Brown & Enersen in San Francisco. A graduate of Dartmouth University and the Boalt Hall School of Law at the University of California, he has served as a law clerk for the Honorable Robert P. Aguilar, U.S. District Judge for the Northern District of California.
Alan W. Marty, 31, of Texas. Mr. Marty is currently a regional sales manager for Applied Materials, Inc., where he has generated record sales. After receiving his bachelor's degree in materials science engineering from Iowa State University, he earned master's of business administration and education degrees at Stanford University.
Mark E. Readinger, 35, of Texas. Mr. Readinger is currently the senior strategic planner for Texas Instruments, Inc. He is a graduate of the U.S. Military Academy and served in the armor branch of the U.S. Army from 1975 through 1980. He serves on the board of directors of his local Boys and Girls Club and is active in other civic organizations.
Mitchell B. Reiss, 30, of New York. Mr. Reiss is an attorney with the firm of Fried, Frank, Harris, Schriver & Jacobson in New York City. He has received a bachelor's degree from Williams College, a master's degree from the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy, a doctorate from Oxford University, and a law degree from Columbia Law School. His dissertation was published and nominated for four national book awards.
John E. Shephard, Jr., 32, of New York. Major Shephard is a U.S. Army officer currently teaching at the U.S. Military Academy. A graduate of the U.S. Military Academy, he earned a master's degree from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. His articles on civil-military relations have appeared in professional journals and on the editorial pages of the Wall Street Journal and the Washington Post.
David L. Simms, 31, of Massachusetts. Mr. Simms is currently a manager with Bain and Company in Boston. He is a summa cum laude graduate of the University of Pennsylvania, where he earned degrees in economics and applied science. He is a graduate of the Harvard University joint J.D./M.B.A. program. He has served as a trustee of the University of Pennsylvania and on the management board for Christians for Urban Justice/Habitat for Humanity.
Clifford L. Stanley, 41, of Virginia. Lt. Col. Stanley is a U.S. Marine Corps officer currently attending the National War College. He earned a master's degree with honors from Johns Hopkins University. He has been awarded the Meritorious Service Medal, Navy Commendation Medal, and the Navy Achievement Medal.
Patrick M. Walsh, 33, of Texas. Lt. Comdr. Walsh is a U.S. naval officer currently attending the Armed Forces Staff College. A graduate of the U.S. Naval Academy, he is an accomplished naval aviator. He has served aboard five aircraft carriers, as an operational test director for the Chief of Naval Operations and as a member of the Blue Angels. He has been active in the Big Brothers and the Make-a-Wish Foundation.
  