
    I AM DELIGHTED that our trip to the Middle East has given us the unexpected but very welcomed opportunity to begin a new friendship with President Spinola and to renew an old friendship with the nation he represents.
Although our talks this morning were brief, President Spinola and I were able to review all of the major issues affecting relations between the United States and Portugal and to touch upon many larger issues as well. A major topic of our discussion was the importance that the United States attaches to Portugal's contribution to NATO and to Western security. In addition, I was pleased that in our meeting, President Spinola told us in the most convincing terms of the desires of Portugal for even stronger and closer ties with the United States. We welcome her friendship, just as we welcome the friendship of all other nations.
This meeting has also served as a valuable reminder that the challenges of peace are not isolated to any single area of the world. A truly effective structure of peace must embrace every area of the world, convincing every nation that its dreams can only be realized in peace and not in war.
For the last 6 days, we have been preoccupied with the problems of the Middle East. I outlined to President Spinola the results of the trip we are now concluding and emphasized our irreversible commitment to continuing an active, constructive role there.
But now, as we return to the United States, we will refocus our attention on two other crucial areas of the world: Europe and the Soviet Union. Next week I will travel to Brussels for meetings with heads of state from the NATO alliance. I will then go on to Moscow for our third summit meeting with Soviet leaders. Both of these visits are an essential part of our continuing efforts to reduce tensions around the world and to solve problems through negotiation, not confrontation.
To President Spinola and to the people of Portugal, we extend our grateful thanks for our present and fruitful visit to the Azores, and we. pledge our continuing friendship in the future.
  