
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate three individuals to serve in his Administration:
The President intends to nominate Christopher Egan, of Massachusetts, to be the Representative of the United States of America to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, with the rank of Ambassador. Mr. Egan currently serves as President, Co-Founder and Managing Member of Carruth Capital, LLC. He is also a member of the Board of Directors of Fallon Community Health Plan and co-founder of Break the Cycle of Poverty, a non-profit organization. Mr. Egan received his bachelor's degree from the University of Massachusetts and his master's degree from the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University.
The President intends to nominate Donald B. Marron, of Maryland, to be a Member of the Council of Economic Advisers. Dr. Marron currently serves as Deputy Director of the Congressional Budget Office. Prior to this, he served as Chief Economist of the Council of Economic Advisors. Earlier in his career, he served as Executive Director and Chief Economist of the United States Congress Joint Economic Committee. Dr. Marron received his bachelor's degree from Harvard University and his PhD from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
The President intends to nominate Brent T. Wahlquist, of Pennsylvania, to be Director of the Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement at the Department of the Interior. Dr. Wahlquist currently serves as Regional Director of the Appalachian Region and Acting Director of the Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement at the Department of the Interior. Prior to this, he served as Regional Director of the Western and Mid-Continent Regions in the Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement. Earlier in his career, he served as Deputy Director of the West Virginia Department of Natural Resources. Dr. Wahlquist received his bachelor's degree and master's degree from Brigham Young University and his PhD from New Mexico State University.
  