
    Download PDF
Today Donald J. Trump officially filed his Statement of Candidacy for the office of President of the United States of America.
(New York, NY) June 22, 2015—Today, Donald J. Trump filed his Statement of Candidacy for office of President of the United States with the Federal Election Commission. This filing took place well in advance of the July 1st deadline. Last week, Mr. Trump declared his candidacy at Trump Tower where he spoke about the challenges we are currently facing, his proven record of success, and his belief in the Free Market, a strong military and our country's sacred obligation to take care of our veterans and their families.
Mr. Trump says, "I am pleased to submit this filing to the Federal Election Commission, formalizing my campaign for President of the United States. I can rebuild the American Dream so that it is stronger, bigger and better than ever before. Together we will Make America Great Again!"
Mr. Trump's Campaign Manager, Corey Lewandowski added, "As we have always said, the Donald J. Trump for President Committee, Inc. will meet all FEC imposed deadlines in accordance with being a candidate for the office of the President of the United States and today we are excited to complete this very important step."
Tomorrow, Mr. Trump will headline the Maryland Republican Party's sold out 25th Annual Red, White, and Blue Dinner in Baltimore with a record setting crowd. Mr. Trump has visited Iowa and New Hampshire numerous times over the past several months and will return to Iowa this Saturday, June 27th and New Hampshire on Tuesday, June 30th. Also next week, Mr. Trump will speak at the City Club of Chicago on Monday, June 29th, which will be the largest event in the Club has ever had. The event sold out within twelve minutes and has a wait-list of over two thousand people.
The Donald J. Trump for President Campaign is headquartered in New York City. For more information please visit DonaldJTrump.com.
Press Contact:
Hope Hicks
[email protected]203-273-0226
  