
    WASHINGTON – Today, President Barack Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key Administration posts:
•      Martin J. Gruenberg, Chairman, Board of Directors of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
•      Ken Kopocis, Assistant Administrator for the Office of Water, Environmental Protection Agency
President Obama said, "I am honored that these talented individuals have decided to join this Administration and serve our country. I look forward to working with them in the months and years to come."
President Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key Administration posts:
Martin J. Gruenberg, Nominee for Chairman, Board of Directors of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
Martin J. Gruenberg has been Vice Chairman of the FDIC Board of Directors since August 2005. He served as Acting Chairman from November 15, 2005 to June 26, 2006. In 2007, Mr. Gruenberg was named Chairman of the Executive Council and President of the International Association of Deposit Insurers (IADI). Mr. Gruenberg joined the FDIC Board after broad congressional experience in the financial services and regulatory areas. He served as Senior Counsel to Senator Paul S. Sarbanes (D-MD) on the staff of the Senate Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs from 1993 to 2005. Mr. Gruenberg advised Senator Sarbanes on issues of domestic and international financial regulation, monetary policy and trade. Mr. Gruenberg holds a J.D. from Case Western Reserve Law School and an A.B. from Princeton University, Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs.
Ken Kopocis, Nominee for Assistant Administrator for the Office of Water, Environmental Protection Agency
Ken Kopocis has been the Senior Counsel on the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure since 2008. From 2006-2008, he served as the Deputy Staff Director for Infrastructure on the Senate Committee on Environment and Public Works. From 1993-2006, Mr. Kopocis was the Staff Director and Senior Counsel for the House Subcommittee on Water Resources and Environment for the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure. From 1985-1993, he served as Assistant Counsel on the House Subcommittee on Water Resources and Environment for the Committee on Public Works and Transportation. Mr. Kopocis has worked on water issues in the United States Congress for over 25 years, and has played a role in crafting and defending numerous pieces of environmental legislation, including the Clean Water Act. He also previously served as an Attorney in the Government Accountability Office and at the General Services Administration. Mr. Kopocis holds a B.S. from the University of Nebraska-Omaha and a J.D. from the College of William and Mary.
  