
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate three individuals to serve in his administration and his designation of one individual to serve in his administration.
The President intends to nominate Joseph E. Schmitz to be Inspector General of the Department of Defense. He is currently the Deputy Senior Inspector for the Naval Reserve Intelligence Program, a Partner with the law firm of Patton Boggs in Washington, D.C., and an Adjunct Professor of Law at Georgetown University Law Center. He was previously a partner with Besozzi, Gavin, Craven and Schmitz and was Of Counsel with Paul, Hastings, Janofsky and Walker. In 1987, Schmitz was a Special Assistant in the Office of Attorney General Edwin Meese, III. After graduating from the U.S. Naval Academy, he served for five years in the U.S. Navy and is presently a Captain in the Naval Reserves. He is a graduate of Stanford Law School.
The President intends to nominate Jeffrey William Runge to be Administrator of the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration. He is currently Facility Physician and Assistant Chairman of the Department of Emergency Medicine at the Carolinas Medical Center and is an expert in motor vehicle injury care and prevention. In 1996, Dr. Runge spent a year as a fellow at the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration and received the Highway Safety Leadership Award from the Administration the same year. He serves on numerous professional and civic boards including the Board of Advisors of the University of North Carolina Highway Safety Research Center. A resident of North Carolina, he is a graduate of the University of the South and the Medical University of South Carolina.
The President intends to nominate Terry L. Wooten to be a Judge on the U.S. District Court for the District of South Carolina.
The President has designated Warren L. Miller to be Chairman of the Commission for the Preservation of America's Heritage Abroad where he has served as a Commissioner since 1992. He is presently an Attorney in Washington, D.C. and was previously the Managing Partner with the Law Firm of Pierson, Ball and Dowd. Miller is a graduate of American University and the George Washington University.
  