
    Today, Columbus Mayor Andrew Ginther, Cincinnati Mayor John Cranley, and 26 Ohio leaders announced their endorsements for Joe Biden for President of the United States.
"With just over a week until Ohioans vote in the presidential primary, I'm excited to be endorsing Joe Biden," said Columbus Mayor Andrew J. Ginther. "Joe Biden has spent his entire career fighting for working families like those I represent here in Central Ohio, and I know that he'll continue that fight as president. Biden ensures that no voice is unheard in the political process and that the little guy always gets a seat at the table. I'm confident that with Biden's compassionate, steady leadership, our country will again be on solid footing -- and that under Biden's presidency, Buckeyes will be able to rest easy knowing the days of Trump's chaos have finally come to an end."
"There are so many issues facing everyday Cincinnatians that, under Trump's presidency, have been made worse," said Cincinnati Mayor John Cranley. "Our infrastructure is in dire straits. Access to quality health care for everyone is under attack. And the crises of climate change and gun violence have gone almost completely ignored by this current Administration. With Joe Biden in the White House, that will all end -- Biden will work to enact the common-sense reforms that our cities desperately need and our communities have waited far too long to see. I proudly support Joe Biden because I know Biden will be able to build the coalitions necessary to tackle these issues head-on and bring relief to Cincinnati families."
The full list of Ohio leaders endorsing Joe Biden today includes:

Andrew J. Ginther, Mayor of Columbus
John Cranley, Mayor of Cincinnati
State Senator Cecil Thomas
State Senator Tina Maharath
State Representative Brigid Kelly
State Representative Catherine D. Ingram
State Representative Sedrick Denson
Former U.S. Congressman Steve Driehaus
Former U.S. Congressman David Mann
John O'Grady, Board President, Franklin County Board of Commissioners
Marilyn Brown, Franklin County Commissioner
Denise Driehaus, President, Hamilton County Board of Commissioners
Victoria Parks Hamilton Commissioner
Shannon Hardin, President, Columbus City Council
Rob Dorans, Columbus City Council Member
Emmanuel V. Remy, Columbus City Council Member
Priscilla R. Tyson, Columbus City Council Member
Dallas Baldwin, Franklin County Sheriff
Maryellen O'Shaughnessy, Franklin County Clerk of Courts
Megan N. Kilgore, Columbus City Auditor
Danny O'Connor, Franklin County Recorder
Anahi Ortiz, Franklin County Coroner
Anthony Caldwell, Member, South-Western City Schools Board of Education
Karl Keith, Montgomery County Auditor
Brandon McClain, Montgomery County Recorder
Ben Glassman, Former U.S. Attorney, Southern District of Ohio
Jen House, President, Ohio Young Democrats
Chris Anderson, Vice President - Campaigns, Ohio Young Democrats

These endorsements build on the list of nearly 40 current and former elected officials and community leaders from across Ohio, including Congressman Tim Ryan, Congresswoman Marcia Fudge, former Ohio Governor Ted Strickland, former CFPB Director Richard Cordray, former Congressman Edward Feighan, Columbus City Attorney Zach Klein, former Columbus City Councilmember Mary Jo Hudson, State Senator Herceal Craig, and Youngstown Mayor Tito Brown.
Nationally, Biden for President has previously announced more than 1,700 endorsements from national, state, and local leaders, including current and former U.S. senators and representatives, governors, state elected officials, community leaders, and national security professionals.
  