
    WASHINGTON, DC – Today, President Barack Obama announced his intent to appoint the following individuals to key Administration posts:
•     Dori Henry – Assistant Secretary for Public Affairs, Department of Labor
•     Robin L. Diamonte – Member, Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation
President Obama said, "Our nation will be greatly served by the talent and expertise these individuals bring to their new roles. I am grateful they have agreed to serve in this Administration, and I look forward to working with them."
President Obama announced his intent to appoint the following individuals to key Administration posts: 
Dori Henry, Appointee for Assistant Secretary for Public Affairs, Department of Labor
Dori Henry is the Senior Managing Director in the Office of Public Affairs at the Department of Labor, a position she has held since July 2015. Ms. Henry has concurrently served as Acting Assistant Secretary for Public Affairs since January 2016. Prior to that, Ms. Henry was a Speechwriter in the Office of Public Affairs from 2014 to 2015. Before joining the Department of Labor, Ms. Henry was Director of Communications for the Maryland Department of Health and Mental Hygiene from 2011 to 2014. From 2009 to 2011, she was Special Assistant to the Assistant Attorney General for Civil Rights at the Department of Justice. Prior to joining the Administration, she served in a variety of roles at the Maryland Department of Labor, Licensing and Regulation, first as Deputy Director of Communications and Media Relations from 2007 to 2008, and then as Director of Communications and Media Relations from 2008 to 2009. She began her career as a Staff Writer at The Daily Record from 2005 to 2007. Ms. Henry received a B.S. from James Madison University and an M.S. from Boston University?.
Robin L. Diamonte, Appointee for Member, Advisory Committee to the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation 
Robin L. Diamonte is the Chief Investment Officer at United Technologies Corporation (UTC), a position she has held since 2004. In this role, she is responsible for overseeing UTC's global retirement assets. She was first appointed to the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation in 2013. From 1992 to 2004, Ms. Diamonte served in various roles at Verizon Investment Management Corporation, including as Co-head of Company Directed Assets, Managing Director of Research & Strategic Relationships, Director of Research & Strategic Relationships, and Manager for Investment Information Systems. Prior to her time with Verizon Investment Management Corporation, Ms. Diamonte was Senior Coordinator of End User Computer Support at GTE Service Corporation. From 1986 to 1991, she held the position of Telecommunications Specialist and Product Manager of Data Networking & Communication Products. Ms. Diamonte served as the Chairwoman of the Committee on the Investment of Employee Benefit Assets, from 2013 to 2014, and currently serves on its board. She also serves on the board of Morningstar, Inc. Ms. Diamonte received a B.S. and an M.B.A. from the University of New Haven.
  