
    Pool Reports by Maureen Groppe, USA Today 



Sent:
Reports:




March 31, 2023 07:52

In-town pool report #1 - gathering
Good morning from the White House.
We're gathering for President Biden's Marine One departure from the South Lawn. It's scheduled for 8 a.m. 


March 31, 2023 08:12

In-town pool report #2 - departure/no comment on Trump indictment
President Biden exited the White House at 8:05.
Biden said he has no comment on the Trump indictment.
He said the WSJ reporter should be released from Russia.
"Let him go."
M1 lifted off at 8:10 am.
Handing off to the travel pool. 


March 31, 2023 08:23

In-town pool report #3 - travelers with POTUS
Per White House:
Traveling with the President and the First Lady aboard Marine One en route to Joint Base Andrews:
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff Anthony Bernal, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the First Lady Karine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press Secretary 


March 31, 2023 08:25

In-town pool report #4 - Biden no comment quote on Trump
Biden was asked multiple times about the Trump indictment. He declined to comment, saying at one point: "I have no comment on Trump." 


March 31, 2023 08:41

In-town pool report #5 -- fuller Biden comments
Here's a fuller accounting of Biden's comments, after listening to the tape – but please check against transcript.
Q. Will the indictment divide the country?
Biden: "I have no comment on that."
Q. Are you worried about protests?
Biden: "No. I'm not going to talk about the Trump indictment."
Q. On the WSJ reporter, do you have a message for Russia?
Biden: "Let him go."
Q. What does the indictment say about the rule of law?
Biden: "I have no comment at all."
Q. Are you going to expel Russian diplomats for the WSJ journalist?
Biden: "That's not the plan right now."
Q. Are the charges politically motivated?
Biden: "I have no comment on Trump." 


March 31, 2023 10:04

In-town pool report #6 -- gaggle starting at 10:05 a.m.
From the WH:
The press gaggle aboard AF1 will begin at 10:05AM EST 




Pool Reports below by Michael D. Shear, The New York Times 



Sent:
Reports:




March 31, 2023 08:29 EDT

Travel Pool Report #1 — Andrews arrival / departure
POTUS and FLOTUS landed at Andrews in Marine One at 8:19 am ET. They were greeted by: Colonel Matthew Jones, Commander, 89th Airlift Wing
POTUS and FLOTUS boarded AF1 and we are rolling soon for Mississippi.
According to the White House:
Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre will be joined by FEMA Administrator Deanne Criswell for today's gaggle en route to Jackson, Mississippi.
Traveling with POTUS and FLOTUS aboard Air Force One en route to Jackson Air National Guard Base:
Secretary Marcia Fudge, Department of Housing and Urban Development Administrator Deanne Criswell, Federal Emergency Management Agency Rep. Bennie Thompson (MS-02) Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff Anthony Bernal, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the First Lady Liz Sherwood-Randall, Assistant to the President & Homeland Security Advisor Karine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press Secretary Ashley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office Operations Travis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director Sheila Grant, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Presidential Speechwriter Vanessa Valdivia, Special Assistant to the President & Press Secretary for the First Lady 


March 31, 2023 09:35 CDT

Travel Pool Report #2 — Mississippi arrival / gaggle
POTUS arrived in Mississippi at 9:40 CDT.
Karine and the FEMA director Criswell gaggled aboard the flight for about 20 minutes. Will send highlights and hopefully an otter transcript shortly.
No other visitors to the press cabin.
We will be rolling to the first stop shortly. 


March 31, 2023 09:42 CDT

Travel Pool Report #3 — Gaggle highlights
Here are some gaggle highlights. I will try to attach an otter transcript in another report. But definitely check against the real transcript when it comes.
FEMA director Criswell summarized the federal response in Mississippi to the tornado, which included she said more than 300 personnel on the ground. She said that POTUS will announce today that the federal government will pay 100 percent of the recovery costs for 30 days to help the communities pay overtime and other costs regarding the initial cleanup. She also described the devastation, noting that in Rolling Fork, people on the ground said that the tornado was on the ground for 15 seconds, and still did enormous damage.
Karine gaggled after Director Criswell. She did not make big news, and mostly declined to comment on Trump news. "We're just not going to comment on any ongoing case. And I'll just leave it there," she said.
On the case involving the WSJ reporter detained in Russia, she said: " I wish I had breakthrough news or breakthrough update for all of you, I just do not. The State Department is working very hard to to get a counselor, as I mentioned yesterday, to Evan, which is something that we do for all Americans that are detained." She declined to say how long the State Department would take to determine whether he is unlawfully detained, or to say whether POTUS is pressing the State Department to make that determination quickly.
On Trump, she said: "All of us, including the president found out about about the news yesterday, just like every other American through the news reports." 


March 31, 202309:50 CDT

Travel Pool Report #3a — otter link to gaggle
Here is a link to an Otter transcript. Holler if there are problems accessing it.
https://otter.ai/u/Jr5uAOBQZ_Plk6oDoY3THP66s8g 


March 31, 2023 09:52 CDT

Travel Pool Report #4 — departure from airport.
POTUS and FLOTUS deplaned at 9:50 and boarded Marine One. We are headed to the Ospreys shortly to the first stop of the day.


March 31, 2023 10:55 CDT

Travel Pool Report #5 — arrival in Yazoo City
POTUS and FLOTUS landed in Marine One at the Yazoo County Airport Landing Zone, Yazoo City, Mississippi at 10:43 CDT. Your pooler did not see POTUS get off of M1, but we are in a motorcade which is rolling at 10:53 am.
Your pooler was not in a position to see during the Osprey flight but other members of the pool said they could see some damage on the ground from the tornado as we flew.
First up on the schedule is a briefing from emergency responders and state and local officials. It is a blustery and cloudy day in Mississippi with reports of further rain, something that FEMA director Criswell said during the gaggle was always a concern when recovery efforts are underway.
Details about the briefing will come once it is underway. 


March 31, 2023 11:39 CDT

Travel Pool Report #6 — arrival in Rolling Fork
The motorcade arrived at the South Delta Elementary School, Rolling Fork, Mississippi at 11:37 am CDT for the briefing with federal, state and local leaders.
As we rolled into town, the destruction was everywhere. Basically one home after another was just piles of wood and rubble. Cars flipped over on their roofs. Trees down. Electrical wires on the ground. Every now and then, there was a house that looked largely untouched. But they were clearly the exception.
Your pooler did not see POTUS get out of the motorcade.
More to come. 


March 31, 2023 11:57 CDT

Travel Pool Report #7 — briefing.
At about 11:45, POTUS and FLOTUS talked briefly with the mayor of Rolling Fork before getting a presentation by FEMA director Criswell, who showed POTUS the path of the storm on the map. It was difficult to hear what she was saying, but she seemed to be describing the federal government's efforts to respond, similar to the comments she made on the plane to reporters earlier.
Clayton French, the deputy director of the state's emergency management agency then thanked POTUS for giving the state hope. And he told the mayor not to give up home.
POTUS made some comments back but your pool could not hear. POTUS also said something to the mayor but was too quiet to hear.
Gov. Reeves said something to POTUS about the weather forecast.
POTUS briefly spoke to your pool, calling it "tough stuff" to see the damage and said he's always astonished with tornadoes that one house looks fine and the next is totally destroyed. I will send quotes along shortly.
The briefing is underway, and we are told we should be in a hold for about an hour.
More to come. 


March 31, 2023 12:05 CDT

Travel Pool Report #7a — more detail
A bit more on the pre-briefing for the press.
POTUS wore a black cap with the seal and was briefed about the devastation by FEMA administrator. In the school yard, they're 6 flash card boards - one with a map of Mississippi and the tornado's path. There was another board with before and after photos showing the scale of the devastation. Another board had fallen trees and debris and an American flag hoisted up by a crane.
Some quotes from POTUS comments to reporters:
"This is tough stuff. And the thing that really always amazed me that all the tornadoes I've been to lately is that we have one house standing, one house from here to the wall, totally destroyed. But for the grace of God." 


March 31, 2023 12:11 CDT

Travel Pool Report #8
From the White House:
The President and the First Lady are greeting with families impacted by the storms.
Other Participants Mayor Eldridge Walker, Rolling Fork, Mississippi
Participating in an operational briefing with the President and the First Lady on current response and recovery efforts:
Governor Tate Reeves, Mississippi Elee Reeves, First Lady of Mississippi Secretary Marcia Fudge, Department of Housing and Urban Development Administrator Deanne Criswell, Federal Emergency Management Agency Rep. Bennie Thompson (MS-02) Liz Sherwood-Randall, Assistant to the President & Homeland Security Advisor Mayor Eldridge Walker, Rolling Fork, Mississippi Deputy Director Clayton French, Mississippi State Emergency Agency 


March 31, 2023 12:49 CDT

Travel Pool Report #9 — FLOTUS greets volunteers
Your pool was led around to the other side of the elementary school where the Red Cross, Walmart and the Salvation Army are distributing food and water and other supplies to members of the community from several trailers.
At 12:26 CDT, FLOTUS came out of the school and greeted a crowd of about 50 or so who had gathered. It was too far away for your pooler to hear anything (local TV reporters and cameras were allowed to be up close, but your pool was kept more than 100 feet away.) Pool could hear clapping by a volunteer. There are pellets with stacks of water and a Salvation Army official told pool Tyson was cooking for the community. Despite the devastation around, the atmosphere is cheerful with lots of laughter and smiles.
One official from the Salvation Army said that among the things being distributed: Hot meals, cleaning supplies, other food, water, clothing
Eventually, FLOTUS walked a little closer to the pool as she greeted the Red Cross and Salvation Army teams of volunteers. We still could not hear what she said. FLOTUS took a picture with the First Lady of Mississippi and the Salvation Army volunteers.
Still expecting POTUS remarks and a walk through the really devastated parts of the town.
More to come 


March 31, 2023 13:13 CDT

Travel Pool Report #10 — Motorcade rolling
At 1:11 pm CDT, the motorcade is rolling to the next stop. Your pooler did not see POTUS get into the motorcade.
More to come 


March 31, 2023 13:34 CDT

Travel Pool Report #11 — tour of destruction
At 1:17, POTUS and FLOTUS walked down a block of completely destroyed homes with the mayor, the governor and his wife, and other officials.
He was too far for us to hear, but he talked to one family who appeared to point out the severe damage to their house, which had its roof completely sheared off and one whole side of the house was missing. There was a big truck with a crane in the front yard. Several times, POTUS bent down to talk to what appeared to be the family's elementary aged daughter.
POTUS moved down the line to speak to another family, also standing in front of what used to be a home. And then POTUS and FLOTUS and the group of officials walked further down the road to where workers had created huge piles of debris, part of the process of clearing out the areas closer to the homes. POTUS and FLOTUS briefly stopped to talk to the workers, dressed in hard hats and with yellow vests.
From the White House:
Participating in a walking tour of the disaster zone with the President and the First Lady and meeting with local residents impacted by the storm:
Governor Tate Reeves, Mississippi Elee Reeves, First Lady of Mississippi Secretary Marcia Fudge, Department of Housing and Urban Development Administrator Deanne Criswell, Federal Emergency Management Agency Rep. Bennie Thompson (MS-02) Mayor Eldridge Walker, Rolling Fork, Mississippi Board of Supervisors President Bill Newsom, Sharkey County, Mississippi (District 1) Police Chief Michael Myles, Rolling Fork, Mississippi Becky Myles, Spouse of Police Chief Michael Myles Farren Washington, Granddaughter of Police Chief Michael Myles Other local residents impacted by the storm 


March 31, 2023 14:04 CDT

Travel Pool Report #12 — remarks
POTUS stood in front of a pile of twisted blue metal and wood that had once been an animal shelter and an auto parts store. Trees behind him were completely stripped of their branches, making the area look even more desolate.
The remarks were streamed live but I will send out some highlights in a few. For the moment, here's one quote:
"This is your community. This is where you built your life. We're going to make sure you can stay right here." 


March 31, 2023 14:14 CDT

Travel Pool Report #13 - Departure to LZ / more remarks
Motorcade started rolling for the LZ at about 2 pm CDT.
Before his remarks, POTUS saw a severely devastated town with many homes half standing and roofs torn away. Power lines continue to be on the ground. Blue plastic tarpaulins held up the roofs of houses that suffered moderate roof damage. Outside one damaged home, a couch cushion hang on the branches of a tree. POTUS and flotus also met workers of the Southern Electric Corporation. In the under belly of an overturned truck, an American flag was strung.
During his remarks POTUS read out the names of 13 people who died and said he understood the difficulty of sudden loss. (Near the end of his remarks, POTUS mistakenly called the town Rolling Stone a second time and a man from the crowd shouted back: "Rolling Fork!")
Here are a few highlights:
"But Jill and I are here to show our support. Unfortunately, I've been to too many sites like this over the last two years around the country. … And I always see the same thing in America. When the neighborhood's in trouble, a whole neighborhood comes to help."
"And the most powerful part of the tornado came through Rolling Fork and stayed here. And it had the effect that was so devastating. Unless you physically saw it, it's hard to believe. 13 lives lost. I met a number of the families."
"300 homes and businesses are nothing more than piles of twisted materials mixed up with personal items that have mattered so much. Teddy Bears, family albums."
"Today I authorized the federal government to cover 100% of the cost for removing debris and emergency measures that are involved in keeping up here. By keeping shelters up and running and paying for every overtime for everyone. 100% of the cost, not for the state but for us, for 30 days."
"We're not just here for today. I'm determined and we're gonna leave nothing behind. We're gonna get it done for you. That's why I'm here"
more to come. 


March 31, 2023 15:08 CDT

Travel Pool Report #14 — arrival at LZ
POTUS motorcade arrived at the LZ at 2:47 pm CDT and POTUS and FLOTUS boarded Marine One for the ride back to the airport and AF1. POTUS saluted and then got into the helicopter.
Pool is headed to the osprey.
Next stop, AF1. 


March 31, 2023 15:29 CDT

Travel Pool Report #15 — AF1 departure from Mississippi.
Marine One landed at 3:22 pm CDT and POTUS and FLOTUS got off and quickly boarded AF1. We will be rolling soon for Philadelphia en route Delaware.
From the White House.
Traveling with the President and the First Lady aboard Marine One en route to Jackson Air National Guard Base:
Secretary Marcia Fudge, Department of Housing and Urban Development Administrator Deanne Criswell, Federal Emergency Management Agency Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff Anthony Bernal, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the First Lady 


March 31, 2023 18:54 EDT

Travel Pool Report #16 — Philadelphia Arrival
AF1 landed in Philadelphia at 6: 33 pm eastern time after an uneventful flight. POTUS and FLOTUS deplaned and quickly boarded Marine One for the flight to Delaware, where they are spending the weekend.
There were no visitors to the press cabin on the flight. Your pooler will send another report when we land in Delaware and a final report upon arrival at POTUS home.
We are taking off at 6:53
More to come. 


March 31, 2023 19:19 EDT

Travel Pool Report #17 — arrival at DANG
POTUS and FLOTUS landed at 7:08 pm ET in Marine One at Delaware Air National Guard and quickly got into the motorcade for the drive to their house.
I will send one more pool report when we arrive. In the meantime, let me thank Kwasi Asiedu, of the LA Times, who was my able co-pilot on this pooling journey, helping with many of the reports today, especially from Rolling Fork.
(A little) more to come.
We are rolling at 7:17 pm
Mike.
From the White House:
Greeting the President and the First Lady upon arrival at Delaware Air National Guard Base:
Lieutenant Colonel Michael Malloy, Joint Staff Operations Officer SFC Julian Skinner, 153rd Military Police Operations NCO 


March 31, 2023 19:33 EDT

Travel Pool Report #18 — arrival at house / lid
POTUS motorcade arrived at his house at 7:31 pm ET and we have a lid.
Have a good weekend everyone. 


March 31, 2023 19:36 EDT

Travel Pool Report #19 — one more thing.
(The last report should have been 18)
As Steve Jobs used to say at his annual product introductions… and now for one more thing.
The White House sends along the weekahead.
Week Ahead
On Monday, the President will travel to the Minneapolis, Minnesota area as part of his Administration's Investing in America tour. The President will discuss how his economic agenda has led to the strongest job growth in history, over $435 billion in major private sector investments nationwide, stronger supply chains here at home, and a Made in America manufacturing and clean energy boom.
On Tuesday, the President will meet with the President's Council of Advisors on Science and Technology to discuss their ongoing work to advanceAmerican science, technology, and innovation.
On Thursday, the President will travel to Camp David where he will remain for the weekend. 



  