
    Dear Mike:
It is with regret that I accept your resignation as Assistant to the President, effective March 31, 1985.
During the past three years, you have performed a large number of important and significant jobs with great success. Well, I'm glad to have this opportunity to say thanks for all your efforts and contributions. Your role in coordinating the Williamsburg Summit and the 1984 GOP convention—to cite just two examples—demonstrated beyond a doubt that you are a superb manager and organizer. But your role in the White House has required more than just a knowledge of organizing events. You have also displayed a deep understanding of the goals you and I share for America and how to explain those goals to the people. That understanding has shone through in every project you have directed. I'm going to miss your wise counsel and advice, and I want to thank you personally for a job well done.
I guess I brought this on myself, though, by mentioning the natural desire of talented people to return to the private sector after a period of government service. You certainly are the kind of valuable public servant I had in mind. As you leave the government, Nancy joins me in sending you our best wishes for every future success and happiness.
Sincerely,
RONALD REAGAN
March 25, 1985
Dear Mr. President.'
With true mixed emotions, I hereby tender to you my resignation as Assistant to the President to be effective March 31, 1985. You have mentioned several times your understanding of the need for people in the Administration to return to the private sector and I find myself in that position.
It has been a great honor and privilege for me to serve as one of your Assistants. Your accomplishments have reserved for you an honored place in our history but more importantly the respect, thanks and appreciation of an American people in need of a sound economy, smaller government and peace in the world.
I have a sense of pride and personal satisfaction in having made some small contribution by reorganizing your Scheduling and Advance Offices, establishing a system for international travel, running the Summit and Convention, and reorganizing and modernizing the Communications Department.
I stand ready at any time to help you and your Administration in any way you may request. In the meantime, my thanks, best wishes and prayers go to you and Mrs. Reagan for the future.
Sincerely,
MICHAEL A. MCMANUS, JR.
  