
    President George W. Bush toady announced his intention to nominate three individuals to serve in his administration.
The President intends to nominate Ruth A. Davis to be the Director General of the Foreign Service and Chairman of the Board of the Foreign Service. She currently serves as the Director of the Foreign Service Institute at the Department of State. Ambassador Davis has been a career member of the Foreign Service since 1969, and has held a variety of diplomatic posts. She has previously served as Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary for Consular Affairs and was Ambassador to the Republic of Benin from 1992 to 1995. She has received the Presidential Service Award, the State Department's Arnold L. Raphel Memorial Award and the Department of State's Superior Honor Award. Originally from Atlanta, Georgia, she is a graduate of Spelman College and received her Master's degree from the School of Social Work at the University of California at Berkley.
The President intends to nominate Alphonso R. Jackson to be Deputy Secretary of Housing and Urban Development. He is currently the President of American Electric Power-TEXAS and previously served as the President and CEO of the Housing Authority of the City of Dallas. Before joining the Housing Authority in Dallas, he was the Director of the Department of Public and Assisted Housing in Washington, D.C. and served as the Chairperson of the District of Columbia Redevelopment Land Agency Board. He was appointed to the National Commission on America's Urban Families in 1992 and served on the National Commission on Severely Distressed Public Housing from 1990 to 1992. A native of Dallas, Texas, he is graduate of Truman State University and received his J.D. from Washington University.
The President intends to nominate James J. Jochum to be Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Export Administration. He is presently a Senior Manager for Government Relations for Accenture, L.L.P. He has served in the past as Majority Counsel for the Senate Banking Committee and as Trade Counsel and Legislative Director for Senator Charles Grassley from 1994-1999. He is a graduate of the University of Iowa and the University of Iowa College of Law.
  