
    The following list does not include promotions of members of the Uniformed Services, nominations to the Service Academies, or nominations of Foreign Service officers.
Submitted March 10
Shirley Elizabeth Barnes, of New York, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Madagascar.
Charles R. Stith, of Massachusetts, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the United Republic of Tanzania.
William Lacy Swing,
of North Carolina, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Career Minister, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Democratic Republic of the Congo.
Withdrawn March 10
Tracy D. Conwell, of Texas, to be a member of the National Museum Services Board for a term expiring December 6, 2001, which was sent to the Senate on February 11, 1997.
Submitted March 11
Thomas Ehrlich, of California, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for National and Community Service for a term of 5 years.
Dorothy A. Johnson, of Michigan, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for National and Community Service for a term of 5 years, vice Walter H. Shorenstein, term expired.
Stephen C. Robinson, of Connecticut, to be U.S. Attorney for the District of Connecticut for the term of 4 years, vice Christopher Droney, resigned.
Alice Rae Yelen, of Louisiana, to be a member of the National Museum Services Board for a term expiring December 6, 2001, vice Fay S. Howell, term expired.
Withdrawn March 11
Ida L. Castro, of New York, to be Director of the Women's Bureau, Department of Labor, which was sent to the Senate on October 9, 1997.
Submitted March 13
Mahlon Apgar IV, of Maryland, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Army, vice Robert M. Walker.
Vivian Lowery Derryck,
of Ohio, to be an Assistant Administrator of the Agency for International Development, vice John F. Hicks, Sr.
G. Edward DeSeve, of Pennsylvania, to be Deputy Director for Management, Office of Management and Budget, vice John A. Koskinen.
James K. Robinson, of Michigan, to be an Assistant Attorney General, vice Jo Ann Harris, resigned.
Withdrawn March 13
Jane G. Gould, of New York, to be Deputy Commissioner of Social Security for the term expiring January 19, 2001, which was sent to the Senate on September 2, 1997.
  