
    President Obama and President Rousseff enjoyed fruitful and productive meetings during the President's visit to Brasilia. They highlighted their country's already existing strong bilateral ties; discussed topics of bilateral, regional, and global interest; and agreed to expand cooperation in numerous areas. These include:
Strengthening The U.S.-Brazil Economic Relationship
Today President Obama and President Rousseff agreed to enhanced cooperation on trade, investment, climate, environment, and sustainable development. As the Western Hemisphere's two largest democracies and two largest economies, they celebrated the vibrant economic relationship anchored by strong trade and investment ties, and based on a shared commitment to broad-based economic growth and sustainable development through environmentally sound and socially inclusive economic policies. During the visit, Presidents Obama and Rousseff noted multiple initiatives that will broaden and deepen our trade and economic relations, and strengthen environmental, climate and green growth cooperation.

To view the fact sheet on Strengthening the U.S.-Brazil Economic Relationship click HERE.


To view the fact sheet on Agreement on Trade and Economic Cooperation click HERE.


To view the fact sheet on Air Transport Agreement between the U.S. and Brazil click HERE.


To view the MOU between the U.S. and Brazil on Cooperation to Support the Organization of Major Global Sporting Events click HERE.

U.S.-Brazil Strategic Energy Dialogue 
President Rousseff and President Obama agreed to launch a Strategic Energy Dialogue, building on the work of the U.S.-Brazil Binational Energy Working Group. This Dialogue will focus on a broad ranging set of energy-related issues, including the safe and sustainable development of Brazil's deepwater oil and gas resources, as well as cooperation on biofuels and other renewals, energy efficiency, and civilian nuclear energy. Such a Dialogue and the resulting energy partnerships between the two largest democracies and economies in the Americas will create jobs in both countries, make energy supplies more secure, and help address the challenge of climate change.

To view the fact sheet on U.S.-Brazil Strategic Energy Dialogue click HERE.

To view the fact sheet on the Partnership for Development of Aviation Biofuels Agreement click HERE.

Democracy, Human Rights, Labor, and Social Inclusion
The United States and Brazil share a commitment to protect and promote democracy and human rights and to promote social justice internationally. This commitment is a fundamental cornerstone of our foreign policies. President Obama and President Rousseff have agreed to work together to advance their shared priority in strengthening their countries' commitment to democracy and human rights and promoting such values globally by launching several new initiatives.

To view the fact sheet on U.S.-Brazil Democracy, Human Rights, and Labor Cooperation click HERE.


To view the fact sheet on U.S.-Brazil Joint Action Plan on Racial and Ethnic Equality click HERE.

 To view the MOU on U.S.-Brazil Labor Cooperation click HERE.

Science, Technology, Innovation, Space, and Education Cooperation
Cooperative research in science and technology between the United States and Brazil has grown significantly, and is particularly advanced in the areas of agriculture research, biomedical research, and biofuels. Through the U.S.-Brazil Fulbright Commission, we enjoy a joint partnership to promote higher education exchanges between the United States and Brazil and through public-private partnerships we are increasingly focused on promoting research and study in Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics.
The United States and Brazil announced today the signing of a Framework Agreement on Cooperation in the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space that reaffirms both nations' commitment to cooperation in the use and exploration of outer space for peaceful purposes. The Agreement fosters and facilitates collaboration between the two governments by enabling specific cooperative projects to be undertaken through associated implementing agreements.
The Presidents also share a commitment to promoting an innovative U.S.-Brazil education partnership to meet the needs of a 21st century workforce. They agreed to strengthen educational exchanges, particularly between research and higher education institutions in the Science, Technology, Environment, and Math (STEM) fields.

To view the U.S.- Brazil: Education, Science, Technology, Innovation, Space and Education Cooperation Fact Sheet click HERE. 

Defense and Security Cooperation
Cooperation between the U.S. Department of Defense and Brazil's Ministry of Defense, and between our nations' militaries, is closer today than at any point in over 30 years. For more than 50 years, the United States and Brazilian navies have trained together in the UNITAS naval exercises. We enjoy close cooperation in Haiti via work together in MINUSTAH; we signed last year a U.S.-Brazil Defense Cooperation Agreement that promotes cooperation in areas such as research and development and logistics support, and encourages combined military training and joint military exercises and a General Security of Military Information Agreement that facilitates the sharing of classified defense and military information between the United States and Brazil. Our nations have committed to working more closely together in the region disaster response and crisis management initiatives.

To view the fact sheet on U.S.-Brazil Defense Cooperation click HERE.

  