
    To the Senate of the United States:
I transmit herewith, for the advice and consent of the Senate to ratification, the Treaty Between the United States and the United Kingdom on the Delimitation in the Caribbean of a Maritime Boundary Relating to the U.S. Virgin Islands and Anguilla and the Treaty Between the United States and United Kingdom on the Delimitation in the Caribbean of a Maritime Boundary Relating to Puerto Rico/U.S. Virgin Islands and the British Virgin Islands, with Annex. Both treaties were signed at London, November 5, 1993. I also enclose for the information of the Senate the report of the Department of State with respect to these agreements.
The treaties establish maritime boundaries between the United States and the United Kingdom relating to our respective Caribbean territories. One treaty creates a 288 nautical mile long boundary between the United States territories of Puerto Rico/U.S. Virgin Islands and the British Virgin Islands. The other treaty establishes a maritime boundary 1.34 nautical miles in length situated about 40 nautical miles from the U.S. Virgin Islands and Anguilla.
The boundaries define the limits within which each Party may exercise maritime jurisdiction.
In the treaty creating a boundary with the British Virgin Islands, this includes territorial sea, fishing, and exclusive economic zone jurisdiction. The boundary with Anguilla separates fishing and exclusive economic zone jurisdiction.
I believe the treaties to be fully in the interest of the United States. They reflect the tradition of cooperation and close ties the Parties have had in this region. These boundaries have never been disputed. The boundary lines established by the treaties formalize the practice that both Parties have followed since 1977 concerning these maritime limits. In establishing the equidistant boundaries, both sides have worked closely together in applying modern surveying techniques and precise technical calculations. The treaties will permit more effective regulating of marine resource activities and other ocean uses.
I recommend that the Senate give early and favorable consideration to these treaties and advice and consent to ratification.
WILLIAM J. CLINTON
The White House, March 9, 1994.
  