
    Fudge Becomes 21st Congressional Black Caucus Members to Support Biden
Today, Ohio Congresswoman Marcia Fudge, the former chairwoman of the Congressional Black Caucus, released the following statement endorsing Joe Biden for President of the United States:
"Our nation is at a crossroads: divided, disillusioned, and full of distrust, with more and more of our fellow citizens left behind. Democrats have to pick a winner who can heal the discord and build a more just and inclusive future – and who will, first and foremost, get Donald Trump out of the White House and out of our lives.
"I've known and worked with Joe for years. He has given his life to public service, and won't leave anyone behind. While too many have for too long ignored the core moral issues of poverty and race, Joe has always championed working families and unions, civil rights and voting rights, justice and opportunity.
"I believe in Joe's policies; and I believe in his character and humanity, the cornerstones of the kind of healing leadership that our country so badly needs. But above all, I believe in winning – because that's where all paths forward to every other big thing we want to do start. And I know that in states like mine – with red districts and blue districts and a lot of purple in between – Joe is the one candidate who can win across the board."
Congresswoman Fudge is the 21st Congressional Black Caucus (CBC) member to support Biden, and she joins a number of former CBC chairs who back Biden, including Cedric Richmond of Louisiana, Emanuel Cleaver of Missouri, G. K. Butterfield of North Carolina, and Jim Clyburn of South Carolina. Congresswoman Fudge also joins Congressman Bobby Scott of Virginia and Congresswoman Debbie Wasserman-Schultz of Florida in endorsing Biden in recent days, solidifying Biden's congressional endorsements lead in the Democratic field and building on his strong showing in South Carolina and heading into Super Tuesday. Congresswoman Fudge is also part of the Congressional Progressive Caucus and the past National President of Delta Sigma Theta Sorority Incorporated.
Biden for President has previously announced more than 1,400 endorsements from national, state, and local leaders, including current and former U.S. senators and representatives, governors, state elected officials, community leaders, and national security professionals.
  