
    "During his two decades playing for Team Washington, former lobbyist Rick Santorum was K Street's go-to guy in the Senate. It is no wonder he received more special interest money than any other candidate when he ran his last campaign. As Senator Santorum continues to reinvent himself as a Washington outsider, conservative primary voters should take note of his record of 'taking one for the team.'" —Andrea Saul, Romney Campaign Spokesperson
In 2001, Senator Santorum Initiated An Effort To Deepen Ties Between Himself, His Washington Colleagues, And The Lobbyists On K Street:
Santorum Set Up Regular Meeting Between Lobbyists And Senators. "The meetings, says a Santorum aide, give GOP Senators an opportunity to say to the lobbyists: 'This is our message-what are the ways that you can help us address it?' He adds: 'It also gives us a chance to hear back from them about their priorities.'" (Louis Jacobson and Brody Mullins, "The GOP's New Bridge To K Street," The National Journal, 5/5/01)
Santorum Also Pushed To Influence Hiring Decisions Made By Lobbying Firms. "GOP leaders on and off Capitol Hill are organizing a new drive to lean on major corporations and trade associations to hire Republicans for their top lobbying jobs. With high-profile positions opening up at lobbying giants such as the U.S. Telephone Association and BellSouth Corp. in coming months, Senate GOP Conference Chairman Rick Santorum (Pa.) and a group of well-connected Republican lobbyists plan to compile a list of candidates they will push for those posts." (John Bresnahan, "GOP Tightens Grip On K Street Leaders Send Message To Associations," Roll Call, 3/12/01)
Santorum Was Widely Reported To Be Running The Senate Arm Of What Became Known As The "K Street Project":
Austin American-Statesman: "A decade of Republican control of Congress and five years of George W. Bush's presidency have had a dramatic effect on K Street, a nondescript canyon of buildings where many big lobbying firms have their offices. Once a Democratic stronghold, this so-called fourth branch of government is tilting Republican, in part as a result of the K Street Project, a longtime effort by House Majority Leader Tom DeLay, R-Sugar Land, Senate Republican Conference Chairman Rick Santorum..." (Scott Shepard, "GOP Builds Presence On Capital's Lobbyist Row," Austin American-Statesman, 7/15/05)
Lebanon [PA] Daily News: "Santorum's dealings with lobbyists of Abramoff's stature involve something called the K Street Project. When Santorum became conference chairman, he reportedly took over operation of the senatorial side of the K Street Project ... Named after the street on which many of Washington's most influential lobbying firms are located, the K Street Project was meant to extend the GOP's political domination beyond the White House and Congress to include industry — and exclude Democrats." (John Latimer, "Senator Under Scrutiny," The Lebanon Daily News, 1/14/06)
The New Yorker: "In recent years, he has also been involved in the K-Street Project, an audacious attempt by Republican leaders on Capitol Hill, including Tom DeLay and Senator Rick Santorum, of Pennsylvania, to turn the busy thoroughfare where many corporate influence peddlers have their offices into an affiliate of the Republican Party." (John Cassidy, "The Ringleader; How Grover Norquist Keeps The Conservative Movement Together," The New Yorker, 8/1/05)
Santorum Specifically Called His Work With The K Street Project "A Good Government Thing" Before Attempting To Deny He Even Had A Role:
Santorum, In November 2005: "The K Street Project Is Purely To Make Sure We Have Qualified Applicants For Positions That Are In Town." "But Mr. Santorum said yesterday that his regular meetings with the lobbying groups are part of his leadership role as the Senate's third-ranking Republican. He described the meetings as a way to inform influential groups who can filter the Republican message out to clients to help achieve Republicans' goals. While job candidates are discussed, Mr. Santorum said, 'there is no pressure to put Republicans in those roles, period — no pressure. ... I absolutely abhor that.' 'The K Street project is purely to make sure we have qualified applicants for positions that are in town,' Mr. Santorum said. 'From my perspective, it's a good government thing.'" (Maeve Reston, "Casey Chides Santorum On Lobbying Ethics," Pittsburgh Post-Gazette, 11/15/05)
Santorum, In January 2006: "I Don't Know What You Mean By Senate Liaison To The, Quote, 'K Street Project.'" "Not so long ago, Pennsylvania Sen. Rick Santorum ran weekly meetings aimed at spreading the power of the GOP by placing loyal Republicans in the top lobbying jobs on K Street. Santorum used to defend the meetings — 'The K Street project is purely to make sure we have qualified applicants for positions that are in town,' he once told the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette — but now he seems to have a hard time remembering them. 'I don't know what you mean by Senate liaison to the quote, 'K Street Project,"' Santorum told reporters Tuesday. 'I'm not aware of any Senate liaison job that I do for the K Street Project.'" (Tim Grieve, "Does Anyone Remember Jack Abramoff?" Salon.com, 1/18/06)
Philadelphia Inquirer: "No Voter Should Fall For The Senator's Attempt To Obscure His Ties To The So-Called 'K Street Project'..." "Sen. Rick Santorum (R., Pa.) is trying to do an extreme makeover, in broad daylight. He's trying to paper over his central role in a now-infamous program to boost Republicans' clout among Washington lobbyists. As the huge and seedy Jack Abramoff scandal unfolds in Congress, Santorum has discovered a newly urgent desire to restrict lobbying. Well and good, all willing hands welcome. But no voter should fall for the senator's attempt to obscure his ties to the so-called 'K Street Project,' named after the street that is home to many lobbying firms. Santorum was an enthusiastic, high-profile supporter of the project, which sought to install movement conservatives in top lobbying jobs. It also sought to ensure that lobbyists and trade associations supported only Republican issues and candidates." (Editorial, "K Street? K Street? Never Heard Of It," The Philadelphia Inquirer, 1/29/06)
Santorum Met With Jack Abramoff As His K Street Efforts Were Launched, Yet He Later Could Not "Recall" The Meeting:
Roll Call, March 2001: "Lobbyists Who Participated In The [Santorum] Meeting Include Jack Abramoff..." "Santorum has assembled a virtual Who's Who of Republican lobbyists, including a number of prominent ex-lawmakers, to advise him on how to improve communications and coordination between K Street and Capitol Hill as the GOP leadership seeks to push Bush's agenda. ... Lobbyists who participated in the meeting include Jack Abramoff ..." (John Bresnahan, "GOP Tightens Grip On K Street Leaders Send Message To Associations," Roll Call, 3/12/01)

National Journal: "Santorum Held His First Meeting In Early March With Such K Street Heavy Hitters As Jack Abramoff..." (Louis Jacobson and Brody Mullins, "The GOP's New Bridge To K Street," The National Journal, 5/5/01)

Philadelphia Inquirer, January 2006: "[Santorum] Does Not Recall Being Personally Introduced Or Meeting Jack Abramoff." "It was at one of those gatherings in 2001 that Santorum apparently encountered Abramoff, according to articles that year in National Journal and Roll Call that reference a meeting between the senator and more than a half-dozen lobbyists and lawmakers. However, [Santorum spokesperson Virginia] Davis said Santorum, who meets with hundreds of people every week, 'does not recall being personally introduced or meeting Jack Abramoff.'" (Carrie Budoff, "Santorum Donating Abramoff Money," The Philadelphia Inquirer, 1/7/06)

"The Senator Does Not Recall Meeting Mr. Abramoff." "Santorum does not admit ties to Abramoff. If the pair attended meetings together, Davis said, Abramoff was probably just one of 50 to 100 lobbyists in attendance. 'The senator does not recall meeting Mr. Abramoff,' she said. 'He has no recollection of being introduced to Mr. Abramoff, and he does not know him.'" (John Latimer, "Senator Under Scrutiny," The Lebanon Daily News, 1/14/06)


Santorum: "I Don't Recall Ever Meeting Him." "Mr. Santorum said that he does not remember Mr. Abramoff being there. 'He could have been — I just don't know,' Mr. Santorum said yesterday after testifying at a congressional hearing where he laid out his goals for the package of lobbying rule changes that he plans to present. 'I don't recall ever meeting him. I don't. When I saw his picture in the paper that was not a face that was familiar to me. I never consciously remember meeting him. Could he have been in a fund-raiser, could he have been someplace where I was? Sure.'" (Maeve Reston, "Santorum Denies Ties To 'K Street Project'," Pittsburgh Post-Gazette, 1/26/06)

  