
    THIS IS an important occasion for everyone in the employ of the Federal Government.
The appointment of Mr. Philip Young brings to the office of Chairman of the Civil Service Commission a man of the stature and capacity demanded by that office. Serving in that capacity, he is to be my chief representative and overseer on all civilian personnel matters for which the President is responsible. As such, his task is of an importance comparable to that of the Director of the Budget, and he will sit with the Cabinet in any discussion of major personnel problems and policies.
It is important the employees of the Federal Government know this. For I most earnestly want them to understand the high regard and appreciation I hold for their public service.
One of the firm purposes of this Administration is to strengthen the career service, so that it may command the esteem of the whole nation. It is essential, in the highest public interest, that the privileges accorded conscientious civil servants be guarded by a strong merit system. I intend to see that they are guarded zealously.
To improve a system, in any fair and wise way--as I believe our Civil Service system can be improved--is not to endanger legitimate rights of the past. No merit system should be a haven for the few who are incompetent, dishonest, or disloyal. I intend to see the Government rid of all such persons precisely because that is the only way to make the merit system itself work.
There is no other way to win for the vast majority of competent and devoted public servants the public honor that is due them. I have known and worked with them for many years. I respect them. I want all our people to share that respect.
The public interest is the decisive, over-riding concern of us all. I expect all public servants to share--deeply--this simple, essential ideal. It is my intention--and that of Mr. Young--to ensure that the Federal Government be a truly progressive and just employer, coherent in policy and dedicated to service.
  