
    Today, Maryland Congressman Anthony Brown released the following statement endorsing Joe Biden for President of the United States:
"Vice President Joe Biden has already left his mark on our nation - fighting for a stronger middle class, combating violence against women, and keeping us safe at home and abroad. He is one of the most consequential and extraordinary leaders and statesmen in American history, and as President he will bring the optimism, spirit and vision to deliver for working families and restore honor and integrity to the Oval Office. We will be safer and stronger with Joe Biden as Commander-in-Chief; we can trust him to keep faith with the men and women who put on the uniform everyday and his temperament and deep experience will make the United States a respected leader on the world stage again. Vice President Biden's story is one of resilience, tenacity and hope - and his humble service and patriotism resonates with Americans of all stripes and backgrounds who know our best days are still ahead.
"Vice President Biden is ready for the fight and will put an end to Donald Trump's divisiveness. He is our best opportunity to defeat Donald Trump, win the Senate and protect the Democratic majority in the House. Joe has my support and I will work as hard as I can to make sure he's our next President."
Biden leads the field in congressional endorsements with support from more than 60 U.S. Representatives and seven U.S. Senators, including the most endorsements from members of both the Congressional Black Caucus and Congressional Hispanic Caucus. More than 30 former and current elected officials in Maryland have endorsed Biden, including former Congressman Aly Wynn and State Senate Democratic Caucus Chairman Jim Rosapepe. Nationally, Biden for President has previously announced more than 1,500 endorsements from national, state, and local leaders, including current and former U.S. senators and representatives, governors, state elected officials, community leaders, and national security professionals.
  