
    Making News: Hillary's campaign manager today sent a letter to Sen. Obama's campaign manager. "It is vital that both of our campaigns come together to ensure that the delegations from Florida and Michigan be seated to reflect the will of the voters... We think there are two options: Either honor the results or hold new primary elections." Read more.
In Case You Missed It: "Obama campaign accuses Clinton of inflating [Northern Ireland] role," but the Irish Times quotes Sinn Féin president Gerry Adams, Nobel Peace Prize winner and former Social Democratic and Labour Party leader John Hume, and former U.S. Sen. George Mitchell praising Hillary's work in Northern Ireland.
Strong in Pennsylvania: A new SurveyUSA poll has Hillary up by 19 over Sen. Obama (55-36). In late February, a Rasmussen poll had Hillary up by 4 over Sen. Obama (46-42).
If You Watch One Thing Today: Hillary supported efforts to bring peace to Northern Ireland. Watch.
Previewing Today: Hillary addresses the Hispanic Chamber of Commerce and attends the National Newspaper Publishers Association Presidential Forum in Washington, D.C. ... President Bill Clinton hosts events in Erie and Johnstown, Pennsylvania... Chelsea meets with students at Wilkes University in Wilkes-Barre, Lebanon Valley College in Annville, and Point Park University in Pittsburgh.
Just Words: Still reeling from losses in Ohio, Texas, and Rhode Island, Sen. Obama continues to attack Hillary. Sen. Obama's campaign continues to make statements that contradict the facts about Hillary's foreign policy experience and work in Northern Ireland, Kosovo, Bosnia, China, and Rwanda. Get the facts.
Recapping Yesterday: Hillary picked up delegates in Mississippi ... "Just as in Scranton, Clinton was met by a wildly enthusiastic crowd" in Harrisburg, "the GOP heart of Pennsylvania... [S]he was enthusiastically received by a crowd that included heavy representation from Lancaster County, the state's most conservative area." ... Hillary drew thousands of "standing, shouting, chanting supporters" in Philadelphia.
  