
    Pool Reports by Annie Linskey, The Wall Street Journal 



Sent:
Reports:




March 30, 2023 14:51 EAT

VP Pool report #1 - Harris doesn't take Gershkovich question
Good morning from Dar es Salaam in Tanzaniafor Day 5 of VP Harris's foreign trip.
I'll send more from the event, but Harris did not take a question that a reporter yelled at her about Evan Gershkovich at the end of her comments just now with the president of Tanzania.
Pool will see Harris at several additional events today.
Will send another report with comments from Harris's statement on US relations with Tanzania.
*
VP Harris arrived at Ikulu, the official seat of Tanzania's president Samia Suluhu Hassan at 1:45 PM local time. Pool watched the arrival from a livestream as she got out of the car around 1;47PM and was greet by Tanzania's president Hassan and they walked through a lobby. Harris sat at a small desk and signed a welcome book. Four flags were displayed behind her.
The Ikulu is an ocean-side compound that is located on Barack Obama Drive, named after the former US president after he visited here. The courtyard at Ikulu included massive trees and several peahens walking around. A huge sign with Harris's photo was on display. At 2:22 PM Harris and President Hassan came to a room in the Ikulu set up with a stage that had red, white and yellow roses at the base. The backdrop included Tanzanian and American flags.


March 30, 2023 15:17 EAT

VP pool report #2 - Harris remarks with Tanzania's president in Dar es Salaam
VP Harris and Tanzania's president Samia Suluhu Hassan both gave brief remarks starting around 2:22 local time. They were at the Ikulu, the official seat of Tanzania's president. They are in Dar es Salaam. 
President Hassan
"Today Tanzania has had another historic milestone, with two female leaders, the vice president and the president meeting here today."
She noted that the meeting between two leaders is occurring during International Women's month.
She also referred to Harris as a "sister" ... "Your visit speaks volume"
Said that Tanzania is hoping that Biden will also visit.
She noted that the country has reduced its debt, spoke about the importance of shorter supply chains, and she requested a 10 year extension on a program that it terminating in 2025. (Pool could not hear what the program was)
She said her "most important request" is to improve the visa process between the US and Tanzania, saying that both countries would benefit from "a long duration visa" which she said would increase trade and tourism. VP HARRIS
The VP thanked her host. Said that the two of them met twice last year, once at the WH in April and again at the African Leaders Summit in December.
She said that Hassan has been a "champion" for democracy, and said that they will discuss democracy, good governance, longterm economic growth and the climate crisis.
"On the subject of economic growth, good governance delivers predictability, stability and rules which businesses need to invest," Harris said.
"There is so much potential for growth here" Harris said.
Says that women must be able to participate equally, including in leadership roles.
She commended the government for the "transparent response" to the Marburg outbreak here, and noted that USAID is providing another $1.3 million to help.
*
Pool is now holding in a van while the two leaders meet.
Pool will next see Harris outside the US embassy here.
We will also see her at a stop a hightech work space.
There will also be a dinner this evening with a pool spray.


March 30, 2023 15:51 EAT

VP pool note 3 - Harris stop at national museum
Harris motorcade left the Tanzanian presidents seat of government at 3:23 pm. As a reminder, we are in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania.
She arrived around 3:30 pm at the National Museum and House of Culture where there is an exhibit commemorating the 1998 bombing of the US embassy here. The exhibit is outside in a courtyard and includes a truck that was damaged during the bombing.
Harris met greeted about 10 bombing survivors who each shook her hand. Pool could not overhear much what they said. The group included Charles Stith the former US ambassador to Tanzania who held the post when the bombing happened
"Thank you all. Thank you." Harris said to them.
Harris could be over heard saying that 1 and 4 people on the planet will be living in Africa by 2050, a statistic she has repeated often.
She paused by a wreath commemorating the bombing.
At 3:45 pm pool joined rhe motorcade en route to her next stop, a digital workspace.



  