
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
March 27
In the morning, the President met with Prime Minister James Bolger of New Zealand.
March 28
In the afternoon, the President traveled to Atlanta, GA. Later in the afternoon, he attended a reception for participants of the Economic Conference at the residence of Gov. Zell Miller of Georgia.
March 29
In the evening, the President traveled to Tallahassee, FL.
The President announced his intention to nominate Tommy Edward Jewell III as a member of the Board of Directors of the State Justice Institute.
The President announced his intention to designate Shirley A. Jackson to be Chair of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission following her confirmation as a Commissioner.
March 30
In the morning, the President went to the State Capitol where he met with direct loan recipients, police officers, and welfare-to-work mothers in the Senate President's Conference Room. He then met with Democratic leadership members in the House Rules Committee Room.
In the afternoon, the President traveled to Tampa Bay, FL. He traveled to Palm Beach, FL, later in the afternoon.
The President announced his intention to nominate Kenneth H. Bacon to the post of Assistant Secretary of Defense for Public Affairs.
The President announced his intention to reappoint Zvi Kestenbaum and to appoint Bernyce Adler, Fred Hochberg, and Lee Seeman as members of the Commission for the Preservation of America's Heritage Abroad.
The White House announced the President has asked the Intelligence Oversight Board to conduct a Government-wide review of the allegations surrounding the 1990 death of Michael Devine and the 1992 disappearance of Efrain Bamaca Valesquez in Guatemala.
March 31
In the morning, the President traveled to Port-au-Prince, Haiti.
In the afternoon, the President went to the National Palace where he met with President Jean-Bertrand Aristide and United Nations Secretary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali. Following a reception, he attended the United Nations transition ceremony on the palace lawn.
In the early evening, the President met with U.S. troops at the Warrior Base. He then went to the U.S. Embassy where he met with embassy staff. Following the meeting, he traveled to Little Rock, AR.
The President announced his intention to appoint Karen Lau Sullivan to be U.S. Alternate Representative to the South Pacific Commission.
The President announced his intention to nominate Vera Alexander as a member of the Marine Mammal Commission.
  