
    Pool Reports by Zolan Kanno-Youngs, The New York Times Note: The reporter who produced these reports continued the numbering of March 9 reports. March 9 included reports numbered 1 through 4. March 10 included reports 5 through 16.



Sent:
Reports:




March 11, 202209:34 CET

VP Travel Pool #17 Rolling to Chopin airport 
Good morning everyone.
It's 30 degrees and sunny in Warsaw. At 9:32 am, your pool is rolling to the Warsaw Chopin International Airport, where the VP will meet with American and Polish troops. I was not able to see the Vice President enter the motorcade.
I'll circle back. Pasting the guidance sent by the VP's office last night.
At 9:40AM CEST, the Vice President will meet with troops from the United States and Poland. This greet at the Warsaw Chopin International Airport will be covered by the expanded pool.
At 10:20AM CEST, the Vice President will depart Warsaw, Poland en route Otopeni, Romania. The departure from Warsaw Chopin International Airport and arrival at Bucharest Henri Coanda International will be open to pre-credentialed media.
At 2:00PM EET, the Vice President will participate in an official arrival ceremony with the President of Romania, Klaus Iohannis. The arrival ceremony at the Courtyard of the Cotroceni Palace will be opened to pre-credentialed media.
At 2:40PM EET, the Vice President will hold a bilateral meeting with the President of Romania, Klaus Iohannis. There will be a pool spray at the top of this meeting at the Cotroceni Palace.
At 3:50PM EET, the Vice President will participate in a press availability with President Klaus Iohannis. This press availability will be covered by the expanded pool.
At 5:30PM EET, the Vice President will meet with staff from the U.S. Embassy in Bucharest at Henri Coanda International Airport. This meeting will be closed press.
At 6:10PM EET, the Vice President will depart Otopeni, Romania en route Washington, DC. The departure from Henri Coanda International Airport will be opened to pre-credentialed media and arrival at Joint Base Andrews will be pooled press.



March 11, 202210:22 CET

VP Travel Pool #18 troop visit // boarding AF2 
The Vice President arrived at the hangar at Chopin Airport at 9:47 am. About 40 military troops, 20 Polish and 20 American service members, formed a circle in front of two Polish and two American military vehicles. Nine Polish helicopters could be spotted in the hangar.
"Good morning," the Vice President said.
VP Harris said it was very important for President Biden that she "be here on the ground to say hello and say thank you to all you for your service, for your sacrifice, for your dedication."
She said she spoke with President Duda of Poland yesterday.
"We talked about the fact that Poland joined NATO in 1999 and since 2014 the United States made a commitment to our friends in Poland to support you," she said.
"An attack against one is an attack against all. The United States takes that commitment very seriously," Harris said of Article Five of NATO.
"We stand as partners," she said. "We work together, we train together, we form friendships that are based on solidarity, mutual values and shared principles," Harris said.
"You have each decided to live a life of service doing some of the most important work any individual could do which is to prepare to sacrifice for your nation," Harris said. "That is some of the most noble work any human being could do."
"When we are in those rooms making decisions it is you we have in mind," Harris said, facing the American service members. "Knowing that when we stand firm we can back it up with you."
Harris then approached each service member, starting with the Americans, to give thanks for their service. The first troop greeted by the Vice President removed the service patch on his left shoulder and handed it to the VP as a gift.
Another American service member told Harris he was from California. They both laughed and hugged.
Another American service member told the Vice President she was also from California. Harris thanked her for her service.
As she made her way down the line, your pooler heard the Vice President thank another American service member and say, "That's some serious stuff."
The Vice President then made her way to the Polish service members. One Polish military official who appeared to be in a leadership role told the VP"thank you for doing this." The Polish troops then gave the Vice President service patches.
One troop told the Vice President the visit was "veryimportant to us." Another woman told Harris "it's an honor for us."
We then packed into vans and Harris took a photo with volunteers at 10:10 am. She then shook the hands of three greeters before boarding AF2.
We're off to Romania. Will tweet photos when we land. Will send IDs on the military units when I get it from the VP's office.



March 11, 202213:36 EET

VP Travel Pool #19 Bucharest Arrival 
Greetings from Bucharest. Air Force 2 landed at Bucharest Henri Coanda International at 1:14 PM.
At 1:22, the pool exited AF2 and saw a team of a half dozen workers quickly lay out a red carpet for the VP. About 10 Romanian service members, including two holdings flags for the US and Romania, then ran over and formed a line on each side of the carpet.
Within 3 minutes, an empty runway turned into a ceremonial welcome. If we hadn't exited AF2 earlier, your pooler would have thought they were waiting there long before we landed.
At 1:29 PM, the Vice President exited Air Force 2 and shook hands with each of the greeters. One official handed her a bouquet of flowers. She entered her vehicle at 1:31 PM. We're rolling.
Greeters:- H.E. Bogdan Aurescu, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Romania- H.E. Andrei Muraru, Ambassador of Romania to the U.S.- Mr. David Muniz, Charge d'Affaires, U.S. Embassy Bucharest- Mr. Shane Dixon, Acting Deputy Chief of Mission, U.S. Embassy Bucharest
From WH: 
Background on troops from the Warsaw hangar
Today the Vice President met with troops from the United States and Poland at the Warsaw Chopin International Airport.
The U.S. troops were from Fort Bragg, NC, California (Van Nuys) and Puerto Rico. Additional info on U.S. troops:
- 18th airborne corps - two months (Ft. Bragg, NC)- California combat support battalion (Van Nuys Armory) - 1 week- Puerto Rican National guard - 6 months
Members of the CA battalion gave the VP a service patch representing their unit.
Both U.S. and Polish vehicles were represented in the backdrop.
Background on departure from Warsaw. 
Greeters:- T.H. Mark Francis Brzezinski, U.S. Ambassador to Poland- Mr. Piotr Gillert, Director of the International Policy Bureau in the Chancellery of the President of the Republic of Poland- Pavel Szrot, Chief of the Cabinet of the President
Protocol:- Ms. Asel Roberts, Senior Advisor, U.S. Chief of Protocol- Mr. Marek Szczepanowski, Poland Director of Diplomatic Protocol



March 11, 202214:12 EET

VP Travel Pool #20 palace arrival 
The Vice President's motorcade arrived at the Courtyard of the Cotroceni Palace at 1:48 PM. Two red carpets stretched from the entrance of the courtyard to a roped red stage. Government officials lined the red carpet, including two holdings flags for the U.S. and Romania.
Across from them were more than 60 members of a Romanian honor guard. Behind them a couple band members stood holding trombones.
President Klaus Iohannis of Romania arrived before the VP at 1:59 PM. He nodded at the US and Romanian officials lined along the carpet as he walked down the carpet. The VP stepped out of her vehicle at 2:01 PM and shook hands with Iohannis as the band played what one aide said was an official Romanian welcoming song.
Both leaders then stepped to the red stage as the US national anthem played. VP Harris, standing to the right of Iohannis, held her right hand to her heart as it played. The band then played Romania's national anthem. Iohannis put his right hand to his heart. They could be seen chatting as the band played a third song. At 2:05, the two leaders walked off the stage and down the red carpet. They then each got into different vehicles for a short drive through the courtyard to the palace. At 2:07 the pool was escorted to the vans.
Thanks.



March 11, 202214:43 EET

VP Travel Pool #21 Romania pool spray 
At 2:13 PM, the Vice President and President Iohannis arrived in the Hall of Honor of the palace. The two leaders turned to the press for a photo op before walking up a staircase for a bilateral meeting in the Honor Room.
Unfortunately your pooler was not allowed to attend the pool spray. When I asked for a reason, the White House said it was due to space constraints (I tried). Only four US journalists were allowed in (tv camera, audio, stills and one wire). An embassy official said three Romanian journalists were allowed in.
The following notes are courtesy of Bloomberg's Nancy Cook, who was allowed in the room.
Both leaders approached a large wooden desk. Harris then signed her name in a guest book while President Iohannis watched. Iohannis introduced Harris to the prime minister and Harris introduced Iohannis to her national security advisor, Nancy McEldowney.
"Your visit here is strength and living proof of our strong partnership," Mr. Iohannis told Harris.
"That is why I am here, to reaffirm our commitment to this partnership and also to the NATO alliance as a whole," Harris said.
We're now holding for the press briefing.



March 11, 202215:57 EET

VP Travel Pool #22 Press Briefing warning 
I'm not sure if we're getting a 2 min warning but the delegations have entered the news conference. Tune in at WH Live.
I'm told the press briefing should be on Whitehouse.gov/live, although I'm not seeing a link on their website. Cable networks should also be broadcasting. I'll record a transcript just in case.



March 11, 202216:08 EET

VP Travel Pool #23 Press Briefing Link 
https://www.presidency.ro/ro/media/live
I'm also told it's on CSPAN



March 11, 202217:05 EET

VP Travel Pool #23 Press briefing over// rolling
The press briefing lasted roughly 30 minutes. We were quickly hustled into vans and are rolling to the airport.
During the drive, your pooler spotted some protesters opposing Harris's visit. A couple protesters held a poster with her face and Putin's face.
Others held sheets of paper reading, "We Romanians want neutrality."
The VP is now expected to meet with embassy staffers. We're holding.



March 11, 202218:09 EET

VP Travel Pool #24 departure
after speaking to embassy staff, the Vice President exited her motorcade at 6:01 PM and briefly said farewell to greeters. She waved to the press and boarded Air Force 2 at 6:03 PM. We're off to refuel in Ireland.



March 11, 202220:12 GMT

VP Travel Pool #25 refuel in Ireland
Shortly before 8 PM Air Force 2 landed in Ireland to refuel. Sending along the following from the White House.
"The Vice President will continue her work engaging with European and Eastern Flank leaders in a series of phone calls early next week. She will be discussing her trip, and next steps on our collective response to Russia's invasion of Ukraine."



March 11, 202221:12 GMT

VP Travel Pool #26 back in AF2
shortly before 9 PM, the press and VP staffers boarded AF2 after a short break in Shannon International.
I also forgot to mention but shortly after we boarded for departure from Romania, the VP came back for a short off the record.
We're heading back to DC soon.



March 12, 202200:41 EST

VP Travel Pool #27 JBA Return
Hello all,
At 12:14 a.m. ET, Air Force 2 landed at JBA. Vice President Kamala Harris stepped off the plane at 12:31 am and was greeted by Major Guy Evertson. The VP then boarded M2.
And that's a wrap. It's been a pleasure and an honor.
Thanks all,Zolan




  