
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate fourteen individuals and appoint one individual to serve in his Administration.
The President intends to nominate Constance S. Barker, of Alabama, to be a Member of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, for the remainder of a five-year term expiring 07/01/11. Ms. Barker currently serves as Attorney and Shareholder of Capell & Howard, P.C. Prior to this, she served as General Counsel of the Mobile County School Board in Mobile, Alabama. Earlier in her career, she served as Assistant District Attorney for the 11th Judicial Circuit of Alabama. Ms. Barker received her bachelor's degree from the University of Notre Dame and her JD from the University of Alabama.
The President intends to nominate Robert Beecroft, of California, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan. Mr. Beecroft, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, currently serves as Executive Assistant to the Secretary of State. Prior to this, he served as Special Assistant to former Deputy Secretary of State Richard Armitage. Earlier in his career, he served as an International Relations Officer in the Office of Northern Gulf Affairs in the Bureau of Near Eastern Affairs. Mr. Beecroft received his bachelor's degree from Brigham Young University and his JD from University of California, Berkeley.
The President intends to nominate Tyler D. Duvall, of Virginia, to be Under Secretary (Transportation Policy) at the Department of Transportation. He currently serves as Acting Under Secretary for Transportation Policy and Assistant Secretary for Transportation Policy. Prior to this, he served as Deputy Assistant Secretary for Transportation Policy. Earlier in his career, he served as an Associate at Hogan & Harston, LLP. Mr. Duvall received his bachelor's degree from Washington and Lee University and his JD from the University of Virginia.
The President intends to appoint William D. James, of Indiana, to be Commissioner of the United States Section of the Great Lakes Fishery Commission (Great Lakes State Official) for the remainder of a six-year term beginning 02/19/08.
The President intends to nominate the following individuals to be Members of the National Council on Disability:
John R. Vaughn, of Florida, and upon appointment re-designate Chairperson, for the remainder of a three-year term expiring 09/17/10; Victoria Ray Carlson, of Iowa, for the remainder of a three-year term expiring 09/17/10; Chad Colley, of Florida, for the remainder of a three-year term expiring 09/17/10; Kristen Cox, of Utah, for the remainder of a three-year term expiring 09/17/09; Marvin G. Fifield, of Utah, for the remainder of a three-year term expiring 09/17/08 and an additional three-year term expiring 09/17/11; John H. Hager, of Virginia, for the remainder of a three-year term expiring 09/17/09; Lisa Mattheiss, of Tennessee, for the remainder of a three-year term expiring 09/17/10; Katherine O. McCary, of Virginia, for the remainder of a three-year term expiring 09/17/09; Ann Rader, of Virginia, for the remainder of a three-year term expiring 09/17/10; Renee L. Tyree, of Arizona, for the remainder of a three-year term expiring 09/17/09; Tony J. Williams, of Washington, for the remainder of a three-year term expiring 09/17/09.
  