
    Gilchrist will attend a Canvass Kickoff at Biden for President headquarters in Detroit at 12:00 PM ET.
Following strong performances in South Carolina and across the nation on Super Tuesday, Michigan Lieutenant Governor Garlin Gilchrist II endorses Joe Biden for President of the United States, releasing a statement in support:
"Leadership is about showing up, listening, and responding to make things happen, and Vice President Joe Biden has shown up for Michigan time after time. He has been there for Detroit, and the entire state of Michigan, as a friend and a leader. That is why I am endorsing Vice President Joe Biden to be our nominee for president.
"This is not a decision that I take or make lightly because the stakes are so high for our communities. Joe Biden is listening to a broad range of progressive, moderate, and other voices across the political spectrum. He will defeat Donald Trump's dangerous, backwards-moving agenda by assembling a diverse, dynamic, and driven coalition that creates the conditions for people to thrive across Michigan and across the nation.
"He helped expand healthcare in Michigan, and will go further as president. Joe has helped expand access to the internet and public transit across our state, and he will go further as president. Joe Biden led President Obama's efforts to protect and expand economic opportunity for working people by negotiating the deal that saved the auto industry, including tens of thousands of jobs in our state, and he will go further as president.
"The challenges that we are now confronting open the door to generational opportunities. This is our moment to replace Trump's destruction and division with a unified, expansive vision of the future that we can build when we come together. I trust Joe Biden to lead with us into that future as our nominee and the next president."
Gilchrist II's endorsement is the highest ranking endorsement by a Black elected official in Michigan and adds to the growing support of Joe Biden across the state, including Governor Gretchen Whitmer, former Michigan Senator Carl Levin and former Governor Jennifer Granholm. In addition, the Michigan Democratic Party Black Caucus, Detroit Mayor Mike Duggan, State Representatives Joe Tate, Karen Whitsett, and Tenisha Yancey, and State Senator Marshall Bullock have also endorsed Biden.
Lt. Governor Garlin Gilchrist II made history when he became the first Black lieutenant governor elected in the state of Michigan in 2018.
A native Detroiter, Lt. Governor Gilchrist II attended the University of Michigan for computer science and engineering. He built a successful career as a software engineer at Microsoft, social media manager for the 2008 Obama presidential campaign, organizer for MoveOn.org, and director of technology for the City of Detroit. Lt. Governor Gilchrist II and his wife, Ellen, currently reside in Detroit where they are raising their twins, Emily and Garlin III, and eight-month-old baby, Ruby.
Gilchrist II joins a growing list of prominent Michigan leaders supporting Biden, including Governor Gretchen Whitmer, former Governor Jennifer Granholm, and former Michigan Senator Carl Levin, Congresswoman Elissa Slotkin, Congresswoman Haley Stevens, and Congresswoman Brenda Lawrence, who announced their support this week. In addition, the Michigan Democratic Party Black Caucus, Detroit Mayor Mike Duggan, State Representatives Joe Tate, Karen Whitsett, and Tenisha Yancey, and State Senator Marshall Bullock have also endorsed Biden.
Biden leads the field in congressional endorsements with support from more than 75 U.S. Representatives and 11 U.S. Senators, including the most endorsements from members of both the Congressional Black Caucus and the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. Nationally, Biden for President has previously announced more than 1,500 endorsements from national, state, and local leaders, including current and former U.S. senators and representatives, governors, state elected officials, community leaders, and national security professionals.
  