
    Mr. Prime Minister, it is a particular honor and a pleasure to welcome you on this very special day, when the American spirit and the Irish spirit are in such close harmony.
I welcome you not only as Prime Minister of Ireland but as a kinsman, very distant in genealogy but very close in affinity. My mother proudly told me one time that I am partially Irish in heritage, and I can assure you that I am fully Irish in spirit.
Your visit, Mr. Prime Minister, symbolizes the warm friendship and excellent relations between our two countries. We have joined to face the great challenges of our times--to ensure peace, prosperity, and liberty for all our peoples.
Mr. Prime Minister, I convey the appreciation of the American people to the people of Ireland for your participation in our Bicentennial. Throughout our history--beginning with the many Irish-Americans who fought for freedom in 1776 and the 11 who signed the Declaration of Independence--men and women from your country have brought Irish courage, Irish energy, Irish strength, Irish devotion, and Irish genius to the United States of America.
In addition to the bonds of history and family, our nations share a deep devotion to independence, democracy, religious liberty, and individual freedom.
Ireland, which became a free nation only in this century, is part of the new as well as the old. You have the confidence of many of the world's new and developing nations which, like Ireland, have gained independence in our lifetime. You also have the mature values and culture of an ancient civilization which started before history books were written.
The problems confronting the entire world, the attainment of peace and security, of justice and human dignity, must be met by nations working together. Only by cooperation can the countries of the world confront the complexity of the new age. Through your effective contributions to the United Nations, especially to the United Nations peacekeeping forces, Ireland has shown profound appreciation of humanity's interdependence.
As a member of the European Community, Ireland has creatively fostered relations between the Community and the United States during the Irish Presidency of the European Community.
Just as we value Ireland's constructive and distinguished role in international relations, we greatly appreciate our own ties with your country, Mr. Prime Minister. We cherish our cultural and historical associations and the steady expansion of mutually beneficial trade. Our economic cooperation is increasing, and American investment in Ireland is substantial and growing.
We meet today to honor our long and mutual tradition of Irish-American friendship and to build upon it for the future. I look forward to our discussions, and I am delighted to welcome you on this magic day.
Mr. Prime Minister, the top of the day to you, to Mrs. Cosgrave, and to all of your party and to all the Irish everywhere.
  