
    WASHINGTON- Today, President Obama nominated Mary Geiger Lewis and Judge Jane Margaret Triche-Milazzo to United States District Court judgeships.
"These women have had distinguished legal careers and I am honored to ask them to continue their work as judges on the federal bench," said President Obama. "They will serve the American people with integrity and an unwavering commitment to justice."
Mary Geiger Lewis: Nominee for the United States District Court for the District of South Carolina
Mary Geiger Lewis is a partner at Lewis & Babcock in Columbia, South Carolina, where her practice involves representing both plaintiffs and defendants in a variety of civil matters, including complex product liability and class action cases. She has worked at the firm since 1985, becoming a partner in 1987. From 1984 to 1985, Lewis served as a law clerk to Judge Owen T. Cobb, Jr., Circuit Court Judge of the South Carolina Fifth Judicial Circuit. While in law school, Lewis worked as a law clerk for the Senate Judiciary Committee of the South Carolina Legislature. Prior to law school, she clerked at the Richland County Solicitor's Office. Lewis received her J.D. in 1984 from the University of South Carolina School of Law, and her B.A., cum laude, in 1980, from Clemson University.
Judge Jane Margaret Triche-Milazzo: Nominee for the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Louisiana
Judge Jane Margaret Triche-Milazzo is a District Judge of the Twenty-third Judicial District in the State of Louisiana, a position she has held since 2008. As District Judge, Judge Triche-Milazzo has jurisdiction over a broad array of cases, including civil, criminal, and juvenile matters. From 1986 until her election to the bench, Judge Triche-Milazzo worked at the Law Office of Risley Triche, LLC, as a paralegal from 1986 to 1989, as a law clerk from 1989 to 1992, as an associate from 1992 to 1998, and as a partner from 1998 to 2008. Prior to law school, Judge Triche-Milazzo worked as an elementary school teacher. She received her J.D. in 1992 from the Louisiana State University Paul M. Hebert Law Center and her B.A., magna cum laude, in 1977 from Nicholls State University.
  