
    WASHINGTON – Today, President Barack Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key Administration posts:
•      Dereth Glance, Commissioner, International Joint Commission, Department of State
•      Rich Moy, Commissioner, International Joint Commission, Department of State
•      Daniel B. Shapiro, Ambassador to Israel, Department of State
•      Ben S. Bernanke, U.S. Alternate Governor, International Monetary Fund
•      Christopher B. Howard, Member, National Security Education Board
President Obama said, "These fine public servants bring both a depth of experience and tremendous dedication to their new roles. Our nation will be well-served by these individuals, and I look forward to working with them in the months and years to come."
Ben S. Bernanke is being nominated to continue his service as U.S. Alternate Governor to the International Monetary Fund; he would hold this position in addition to his post as Chairman of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System.
President Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key Administration posts:
Dereth Glance, Nominee for Commissioner, International Joint Commission, Department of State
Dereth Glance is currently the Executive Program Director for Citizens Campaign for the Environment, a non-profit citizens environmental and public health advocacy organization in New York and Connecticut. Previously, Ms. Glance worked for Defenders of Wildlife, Citizen Action Coalition of Indiana, and the Michigan League for Human Services. Ms. Glance is a board member for the Clean Water Network, a coalition of state, regional, and national organizations. She also serves on the New York State Great Lakes Basin Advisory Council and the Clean Water Collaborative. Ms. Glance is a board member for the Onondaga County Resource Recovery Agency and chairs the Recycling Committee. She also chairs the Community Participation Working Group for the Onondaga Lake Bottom Superfund sub-site and serves on the Outreach Committee for the Onondaga Lake Partnership. Ms. Glance earned a B.A. in Political Theory and Constitutional Democracy from the James Madison College of Public Affairs at Michigan State University.
Rich Moy, Nominee for Commissioner, International Joint Commission, Department of State
Rich Moy is a Senior Fellow at the Center of Natural Resources and Environmental Policy at the University of Montana and a land and water consultant. From 1981 to 2008, Mr. Moy worked as Water Management Bureau Chief for the Montana Department of Natural Resources and Conservation where he focused on using collaborative, strategic and science-based approaches for solving water policy, planning and management issues. In that capacity, Mr. Moy worked with the Canadian provinces of British Columbia, Alberta and Saskatchewan, and the Canadian federal government on water quality, wildlife, fisheries, apportionment, and landscape issues. Prior to that, Mr. Moy directed Montana's involvement in the High Plains Research Experiment for 4 years and before that, worked as a park ranger and ecologist for Glacier National Park. Recently, Mr. Moy served as chair of the Flathead Basin Commission which has a statutory duty to protect water quality and the environment of the largest fresh water lake west of the Mississippi River. Mr. Moy holds an M.A. and B.A. from the University of Montana.
Daniel B. Shapiro, Nominee for Ambassador to Israel, Department of State
Daniel B. Shapiro is currently Senior Director for the Middle East and North Africa on the National Security Staff at the White House, a position he has held since January of 2009. Mr. Shapiro served as a Senior Policy Advisor with a focus on Middle East policy on the Obama for America campaign and the Obama-Biden Transition. From 2007 to 2008, Mr. Shapiro was Vice President of Timmons and Company, and from 2001 to 2007, he served as Deputy Chief of Staff and Legislative Director for U.S. Senator Bill Nelson. Prior to that, Mr. Shapiro served as Director for Legislative Affairs at the National Security Council during the Clinton Administration. From 1995 to 1999, he was a Legislative Assistant for U.S. Senator Dianne Feinstein, and from 1993 to 1995, he served as a Professional Staff Member on the House Foreign Affairs Committee. Mr. Shapiro holds an A.M. from Harvard University and a B.A. from Brandeis University.
Ben S. Bernanke, Nominee for U.S. Alternate Governor, International Monetary Fund
Ben S. Bernanke is currently serving in his second term as Chairman of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. Dr. Bernanke also serves as Chairman of the Federal Open Market Committee. He originally took office as Chairman on February 1, 2006, when he also began a 14-year term as a member of the Board. Before his appointment as Chairman, Dr. Bernanke was Chairman of the President's Council of Economic Advisers, from June 2005 to January 2006. In addition, he was a member of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System from 2002 to 2005. From 1996 to 2002, Dr. Bernanke was the Howard Harrison and Gabrielle Snyder Beck Professor of Economics and Public Affairs and Chair of the Economics Department at Princeton University. Before that, Dr. Bernanke served in various teaching roles at Princeton University, Stanford University, New York University and at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Dr. Bernanke holds a B.A. in economics from Harvard University (summa cum laude) and a Ph.D. in economics from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
Christopher B. Howard, Nominee for Member, National Security Education Board
Dr. Christopher B. Howard is the twenty-fourth President of Hampden-Sydney College located near Richmond, Virginia. From 2005-2009 he served as the Vice President for Leadership & Strategic Initiatives at the University of Oklahoma (OU). Prior to his position at OU, Dr. Howard worked in General Electric's Corporate Initiatives Group and in international project management, sales, marketing and strategic planning at Bristol-Myers Squibb. He remains a reserve Air Force Lieutenant Colonel, earned a bronze star for his military service in Afghanistan, and is currently the Reserve Air Attache to Liberia. He is a co-founder and trustee of the Impact Young Lives Foundation, a not-for-profit organization that provides travel opportunities and mentors for disadvantaged South African university students. Dr. Howard is a member of the Council on Foreign Relations, an Aspen Institute Henry Crown Fellow and a member of the Association of American Rhodes Scholars Board of Trustees. Dr. Howard holds an M. Phil. and D. Phil. from the University of Oxford where he was a Rhodes Scholar, an MBA with distinction from the Harvard Business School, and a B.S. from the United States Air Force Academy.
  