
    
"It's an easy call."

Hillary Clinton has won nearly all the editorial board endorsements so far in the Democratic primary.
And heading into the next wave of state contests, the Miami Herald?1,? Orlando Sentinel?2, Chicago Sun-Times?3,?Jackson Clarion-Ledger?4, St. Louis Post-Dispatch?5, Jackson Advocate?6,?Portland Press Herald?7, and Sun Sentinel?8 have joined the list.?Here's why they're urging their readers to vote for Hillary:

She has been fighting for progressive issues throughout her career.
"Mrs. Clinton needs no introduction when she comes to our neighborhood. We know her and her work to improve the quality of life for all. Since graduating from college decades ago, she consistently has used her education and talents to advocate for those causes most dear to all Americans. For example, when she could have worked anywhere with her Yale Law School degree, she decided her first job would be working with Marian Wright Edelman at the Children's Defense Fund."—Jackson Advocate (Mississippi)

She has real, substantive policy proposals that will make a difference in people's lives ...
"She has mastered the detailed approach to policy on a wide range of issues, everything from healthcare to foreign policy. ... and has the character to confront critics in Congress—or work with them in a spirit of compromise. No candidate in either party can match her r?sum? for the job of president." —Miami Herald (Florida)
"Clinton has the experience and the temperament needed to navigate the complicated politics of a sharply divided nation. We think she would be best suited to fight to preserve social programs, which are always under attack, as well as to seize opportunities to make small but significant gains that improve people's lives."?—Portland Press Herald (Maine)

... and she has the experience and tenacity to make them a reality.
"She was known as a hard worker in the Senate who was willing to reach across the aisle. ... It's telling that in the current campaign, Clinton has won endorsements from 40 U.S. senators, 13 former senators and more than 100 House members."?—Orlando Sentinel (Florida)
"In Hillary Clinton we see the possibility of not only the first woman American president, but also the first president in awhile who might have the professional and personal skills to get Washington back to real governing. Our endorsement goes to Clinton. It's an easy call."?—Chicago Sun-Times (Illinois)
"She is not an idealist, but a pragmatist who is dedicated to fighting for her principles while understanding that compromise is the bedrock of our republic government. It is an approach to leadership sadly missing today, and we feel she would help restore it as president."?—Jackson Clarion-Ledger (Mississippi)
"She would work on behalf of her party to stop the nation's dangerous lurch toward political extremism. Her demonstrable toughness and perseverance is a quality Americans must demand in their next president."?—St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)
"She would not need training wheels if she were to become the Democratic nominee and the first female president. But while Hillary Rodham Clinton would make history if she were elected in November, the more important point for voters in the Florida primary is that she would make a good president."?—Sun Sentinel (Florida)
  