
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Kevin Madden (857) 288-6390
Boston, MA – Today, Governor Mitt Romney announced the members of the New Hampshire Leadership Team. Bruce Keough will serve as State Chair and will be joined by Co-Chairs Gordon MacDonald and Donna Sytek. Governor Romney also announced the County Chairs for each New Hampshire county.
"I am honored to announce these distinguished men and women as members of my New Hampshire Leadership Team. Each of these Republicans shares my vision of a stronger and more prosperous America," said Governor Romney. "Together, we will continue to expand the impressive team we already have on the ground in New Hampshire."
Ahead of Governor Romney's visit to New Hampshire today, State Chair Bruce Keough said, "From watching Governor Romney at work in Massachusetts, it is clear he shares New Hampshire's values. His belief and record in fighting for small government and low taxes will resonate with the people of this state. I am proud to be a part of this team and helping to represent Governor Romney in New Hampshire."
Background on Governor Romney's New Hampshire Leadership Team:
Bruce Keough – State Chair: A successful businessman, former State Senator, and candidate for Governor in the 2002 Republican primary, Keough was the New Hampshire Vice Chairman of President Bush's 2004 Presidential re-election campaign.
Gordon MacDonald – State Co-Chair: A Manchester attorney, MacDonald spent eight years on the staff of former U.S. Senator Gordon J. Humphrey (R-NH) in Washington, D.C., serving as Humphrey's Chief of Staff and Legislative Director. He has directed several statewide political campaigns in New Hampshire, and served as legal counsel to the New Hampshire Republican State Committee.
Donna Sytek – State Co-Chair: A former Speaker of the New Hampshire House and Chair of the New Hampshire Republican Party, Sytek served as a State Representative from Salem for 23 years. She has been a delegate to four Republican National Conventions and was Chairman of the National Republican Legislators Association.
New Hampshire Leadership Team County Chairs:
Belknap County
Sheriff Dan Collis
Carroll County
Beverly Bruce
Tom Dewhurst
State Representative Betsey Patten
Cheshire County
County Attorney Peter Heed
Fred Parker
Coos County
Berlin City Councilor Tim Donovan
County Commissioner Bing Judd
Colebrook Selectman Benoit Lamontagne
Grafton County
John Boyle
Hillsborough County Claira Monier
County Commissioner Toni Pappas
Merrimack County
Liz Feren
Franklin City Councilor Ken Merrifield
Rockingham County
Judy Galluzzo
Sheriff Dan Linehan
County Attorney Jim Reams
Christopher Wolfe
Strafford County Barbara Russell
Paul Smith
Elaine Tinetti
Sullivan County
Ernie Bridge
State Representative Beverly Rodeschin

  