
    The following listing includes the President's daily schedule and other items of general interest as announced by the White House Press Office during the period covered by this issue. Events and announcements printed elsewhere in the issue are not included. March 5
The President returned to the White House after a weekend stay at Camp David, Md.
The President declared a major disaster for the State of Arizona as a result of severe storms and flooding, beginning about February 28, which caused extensive public and private property damage.
March 6
The President met at the White House with:
—Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs;
—Frank B. Moore, Assistant to the President for Congressional Liaison;
—the Cabinet;
—the bipartisan congressional leadership;
—Vice President Walter F. Mondale;
—Senator Floyd K. Haskell of Colorado and Rabbi Stanley M. Wagner, professor of Judaic studies at the University of Denver;
—Joseph M. McLoughlin, president of the International Association of Lions Clubs;
—Mayor Cooper Tedder and City Manager Thomas Edwards of Florence, S.C.;
—winners of the Westinghouse National Science Talent Search.
March 7
The President met at the White House with:
—David L. Aaron, Deputy Assistant for National Security Affairs;
—Mr. Moore;
—the Democratic congressional leadership;
—Senator Russell B. Long of Louisiana;
—James T. Mcintyre, Jr., Acting Director of the Office of Management and Budget.
March 8
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Mr. Moore;
—Representative Glenn M. Anderson of California;
—Representative Charles B. Rangel of New York;
—W. Averell Harriman;
—Mrs. Carter, for lunch;
—Representative Neal Smith of Iowa;
—Mike Mansfield, U.S. Ambassador to Japan;
—British Foreign Secretary David A. L. Owen to discuss the Rhodesian situation.
March 9
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Mr. Moore;
—Representative Lee H. Hamilton of Indiana;
—Senator Dennis DeConcini of Arizona.
The President hosted a White House reception for Florida citizens who had supported him during the Presidential campaign.
The President attended a portion of the Radio and Television Correspondents Association's dinner held at the Washington Hilton Hotel.
March 10
The President met at the White House with:
—Vice President Mondale, Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance, Hamilton Jordan, Assistant to the President, and Dr. Brzezinski;
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Mr. Moore;
—Senator Edward W. Brooke of Massachusetts;
—Senators Russell B. Long of Louisiana and Daniel Patrick Moynihan of New York, and Representatives Al Ullman of Oregon and James C. Corman of California;
—Senator Paul Hatfield of Montana;
—Postmaster General Benjamin F. Bailar;
—Democratic National Committee Chairman John C. White.
  