
    HOUSTON, Texas - Today, Right Wisconsin announced their endorsement of Ted Cruz for President of the United States. The editors write that they are endorsing Cruz "as the only conservative who has a plausible chance to stop the political and moral disaster of a Trump nomination."
"Wisconsin voters have risen to the challenge time and time again. We need to do so once again, by voting for Ted Cruz on April 5."
See excerpts below and read the full article here.
Why We Are Endorsing Ted Cruz
Right Wisconsin
So, once again, it comes down to Wisconsin. In recent years, we've grown accustomed to being at the center of American politics, and this occasion is no different. In the next two weeks, we have the chance to stand athwart the GOP's slouch toward the abyss and yell "Stop."
We take our responsibility seriously; Wisconsin must be a fire wall of rationality in the madness that is the current GOP campaign. That is why we are today endorsing Ted Cruz as the only conservative who has a plausible chance to stop the political and moral disaster of a Trump nomination.
...
We readily acknowledge that Cruz was not our first choice. We would have preferred Scott Walker or Marco Rubio. Some of us would have been more than happy with several of the other candidates who have fallen by the wayside. And we are not unaware of the rap on Cruz or of the reluctance of many Badger state conservatives to embrace the Texas senator. Nor is this the time to critique John Kasich, who is a good man and effective governor, even if we disagree with some of his policies and cringe at his rhetoric and wonder what he hopes to accomplish in a race he cannot win.
Our endorsement of Ted Cruz is both tactical and substantive. Trump cannot win Wisconsin if conservative primary voters coalesce around a single choice. If, however, they split their votes between other candidates, Trump could sweep Wisconsin's delegates, despite winning only a narrow plurality of the vote.
Unfortunately, that has too often been the story of this campaign. It must stop here.
But our endorsement is also substantive. As National Review's editors wrote, Cruz is a solid and principled conservative:
...
Since then, nothing has changed except that Trump is now on the verge of seizing the GOP nomination, with all of the attendant consequences for the party, conservatism, and the coarsening of our culture. Along with a sizable number of primary voters, we have made it clear that we will not support Trump even if he wins the nomination.
But that is not yet inevitable. Wisconsin voters stand between Trump and the prize he is so anxious to debase.
This is a time for choosing and we choose not to cower in the shadows or attempt to placate or appease the rough beast of Trumpism.
Wisconsin voters have risen to the challenge time and time again. We need to do so once again, by voting for Ted Cruz on April 5.
  