
    The President. Thank you very much. It's an honor to be here, and I must tell you that Melania and I are really thrilled. We really looked forward to this. Well, maybe not. [Laughter] I didn't know what to expect. But it's really quality people, I can tell you that. You are quality people. So thank you very much.
It's been really another calm week at the White House. [Laughter] Really has. We finally have it running like a fine-tuned machine. [Laughter] It's fine-tuned. It's a beautiful piece of work. It's a piece of work. [Laughter]
But before I get started, I wanted to apologize for arriving a little bit late. You know, we were late tonight because Jared could not get through security. I'm so tired of this Jared. [Laughter] This Jared is brutal. He is brutal. Ivanka, you've got to do something. [Laughter] Oh, boy. My Jared. But I will tell you, he's a good guy. He has suffered. He is a great guy. He really is.
I know the Gridiron is, really, an old tradition in Washington—been around a long time—and one that's important to many of you in the media. So I was very excited to receive this invitation to come here and ruin your evening in person. [Laughter] That's why I accepted. [Laughter]
My staff was concerned, heading into this dinner, that I couldn't do self-deprecating humor. [Laughter] They were worried about it. They said, "Can you do this?" And I told them not to worry, nobody does self-deprecating humor better than I do. Nobody is even close. [Laughter]
In fact, Orrin Hatch—Orrin said that Donald Trump is the best at self-deprecation—[laughter]—in the history of America—better than Washington and better than Lincoln. There's nobody close. Thank you, Orrin. Thank you, Orrin.
They told me my remarks tonight should be something like a late-night routine, a late-night comedian. Are they the worst, by the way? Are they the worst? [Laughter]. We're going to finally get one that's going to come to our side, Tom. Okay? They would get very big ratings if they do that. [Laughter] They haven't figured that out yet. With all the television talent here, I think you're going to figure that out.
But I have to tell you, in preparation, I did what any good late-night comic would do these days: I called Chuck Schumer to ask him for some talking points. Can you believe this? I also spoke to some of the funniest people around the White House, starting with my number two, Mike Pence. [Laughter] Oh, we love you, Mike. That was a tough routine they just played on you, too. I'm going to be much nicer.
Some of you may think that Mike is not a comedian, but he is one of the best straight men you're ever going to meet. [Laughter] True. It's true. He is straight. [Laughter] Man. Karen, I saw him the other day, we were in line shaking hands with men and women. A woman came over to shake his hand, and he said, "I'm sorry, I can't do that. My wife is not here." I never saw anything like that in my life. He's 25 years ahead of his time, folks. [Laughter] A little truth to that. [Laughter] But Mike is doing a fantastic job as our Vice President. He really is. He's doing a fantastic job. Could not have asked for better. I really am very proud to call him, "the apprentice." [Laughter] He's the apprentice.
But lately it bothers me, I have to tell you. He's showing a particularly keen interest in the news these days. He starts out each morning asking everyone, "Has he been impeached yet?" [Laughter] I don't like that. Mike, you can't be impeached when there is no crime. Please remember that. [Laughter] Put that down. I thought that was going to get a much better—you know. [Laughter]
I said to Melania: "Do you think I should use that one? I don't know if I like that one." And she said: "Use it. It's good." But it wasn't as good some of the ones that we thought were going to bomb. [Laughter] All right, so much for humor. You never know about humor, do you?
We're also honored to be joined by Secretary Steve Mnuchin. You saw him and his beautiful wife on stage before. [Laughter] She's got a lot of energy, that one does. [Laughter] When she asked whether or not she could sign the money also, I said, "Steve, you've got a lot to handle here." Where the hell is Steve? [Laughter] I said, "You can't do that, Steve."
America has a proud history of Treasury Secretaries who sponsor the arts. Alexander Hamilton gave us so much. Andrew Mellon famously gave us the National Gallery—a tremendous gift. Steve has given us the blockbuster movie, "LEGO Batman." That was his movie. [Laughter]
See now, that one I didn't think was funny at all, and they laughed. [Laughter] You figure it out. You never know.
But Attorney General Sessions is here with us tonight. And you know, it's a weird deal: I offered him a ride over, and he recused himself. Can you believe it? [Laughter] What are you going to do? But that's okay.
We also have some of the leading lights in the media here, including some folks from the failing New York Times. [Laughter] That sucker is failing. Anybody from the New York—yes, they're over there. I saw too many of them. I know we have our differences, but I also know that you have a very special place—seriously—in my heart. [Laughter] The other day they had five stories on the front page of the New York Times, and every one of them was totally different, and each one of them was bad. [Laughter] After all, you, the New York Times, are an icon. I'm a New York icon. You're a New York icon. [Laughter] And the only difference is, I still own my buildings. [Laughter] It's true. It's true.
I especially have a place in my heart for Arthur Sulzberger. What a job he's done. Our stories are almost mirror images. I inherited a million dollars from my father. I had a great father. Gave me a million dollars, and I turned it into billions. True story. Arthur inherited billions of dollars, and he turned his into millions. [Laughter] Hello, Arthur. [Laughter]
And it's been a very tough year. Jeff Zucker is here—oy—[laughter]—for CNN. They've lost a tremendous amount of credibility this year, but they also lost one of their true stars. The guy who got you the most scoops, inside info, and your, really, very best reporter. There's nobody like him: Steve Bannon. [Laughter] That guy leaked more than the Titanic. [Laughter] Man, did he leak.
As I'm sure you've seen, we're now riding very high in the polls, which is hard to believe, considering I never get good press. But I just hit 50 in the Rasmussen poll. A lot of people said I wouldn't be able to do so well after losing my so-called "chief strategist." I lost my—I just lost my strategist. It's pretty tough. But somehow we're still doing great even without Omarosa. [Laughter]
Oh, by the way, I always knew—someday, you're going to fire her. And, ugh, is that the worst, by the way? [Laughter] Omarosa, you're the worst. [Laughter] I stuck up for her for years, and now I said, "They were all right." Everybody was right. You do understand that, right?
So many people have been leaving the White House, it's actually been really exciting and invigorating because you want new thought. So I like turnover. I like chaos. It really is good. Now, the question everybody keeps asking is, "Who's going to be the next to leave—Steve Miller or Melania?" [Laughter] Oh, that's terrible. [Laughter] That is terrible, honey. But you love me, right?
The First Lady. Behave.
The President. Ooh, I won't tell you what she said. [Laughter] Gosh. She said, "Behave." That's—is that terrible?
By the way, she has been an incredible First Lady and representative. Really, though. They love her. And when I'm out in Ohio and Florida and North Carolina and South Carolina and all over, there's so many women in that audience—they're women—with signs: "We love our First Lady." True. All over. Hundreds and hundreds of them during speeches. "We love high heels." "We love everything."
They're going—these signs are incredible. They have pictures of shoes. You remember when she was badly treated about wearing high heels, when, actually, she had the sneakers in her bag? But they love our First Lady, I can tell you.
Despite what you've reported, we've had a lot of success this year. We really have had tremendous. Our tax plan has been a tremendous victory—massive—and is really turning out to be popular. And Melania is even getting some major benefits from it. She can finally claim me as an adult dependent. [Laughter] It's true. Works out very well.
And the White House is such a warm, loving, and wonderful place. I've heard it's cold. It's not cold; it's warm, it's loving. You meet great people, wonderful people—like yourselves. [Laughter] And I just don't understand why everybody on the internet and in the media keeps screaming, hashtag "#FreeMelania, #FreeMelania." [Laughter] Have you ever seen this? Like, the number-one hashtag, #FreeMelania. She's actually having a great time. [Laughter] Yes? Are you? Yes. Oh, good. She's having a good time and doing a great job.
You know, you can't do a great job unless you enjoy it. It's true. You people know that, as great reporters. You love what you're doing. And if you didn't love what you're doing, you wouldn't do it well.
But before we go any further, I want to just discuss the big financial story of the week. Ever since we announced our new tariffs—which actually is very popular with the people, because they're tired of being ripped off—many dying American industries have come to the White House asking for protection. They want help. They need protection. Unfortunately, I'm sorry, I fear it may be too late for the print media. [Laughter] That was pretty good. That was pretty good though, wasn't it? I like that one. That's another bomb that I thought was going to be good. [Laughter] It might be hard for you to believe, but I do enjoy gatherings like these that give me a chance to socialize with members of the opposition party. [Laughter] It's very important. And it's also great to see some Democrats here, also. [Laughter] We've got some Democrats, a few of them—big ones. The opposition party.
I've seen a few of them applauding tonight, including Senator Joe Manchin, who is here. And don't worry, Joe, don't worry. Good man. He's a good man. There aren't any cameras this time, Joe, and I won't tell Chuck and Nancy what you're doing. [Laughter] Because boy, was he applauding me the other night, right? At the State of the Union. He was up there applauding. I didn't know who the hell he was catering to. [Laughter]
I thought my State of the Union Address was actually extraordinary. [Laughter] One of the best ever given. [Laughter] In fact, Luis Gutierrez was so overcome with emotion at how good this particular speech was, that he had to leave the chamber. He left—and wept. [Laughter]
I probably could have found a way to get the Democrats to stand and clap. You know, they didn't. They were, like, frozen. I said, "Black unemployment is at the lowest point in history." No emotion. They sat. Other than Manchin, he stood up. Thank you, Joe. He's still paying a price for that.
I said, "Hispanic unemployment is at the lowest level in history—record." There was no emotion. But I decided I wasn't going to change anything. I wasn't going to get them to stand. I know how I could have. I was not going to include a salute to Fidel Castro. They would have stood, and they would have cheered, and they would have, really—it would have been a special evening. [Laughter] Special.
And I know Mayor Mitch Landrieu feels right at home in Washington, coming from Louisiana. I love Louisiana. Where's Mitch? Where the hell are you, Mitch? How did I do in Louisiana? Not too bad, right? Not bad, Mitch. [Laughter] We had a good time. But he's used to being in that swamp. It's a beautiful swamp. I like that swamp. This swamp, it's not so good. [Laughter] That's a much more legitimate swamp.
But I have to say, Mitch, that while you're here in Washington, only one request. I don't want to even—because they already hit him with a statue. I was going to say, don't touch our statues, but they've already hit you three times on the statues, so. But, Mitch, you did a good job tonight. And honestly, I loved the way you finished off. I really did. I thought it was very appropriate. I really did, Mitch. Thank you.
I never knew Tom Cotton was such a great comedian. We were laughing, the whole place. That was good, Tom. A rising star. How old are you now, Tom?
Senator Thomas B. Cotton. Forty.
The President. He's 40. Wow. I'm going to watch my back. [Laughter] You know, the—he is; he's a friend of mine. But, you know, in politics, you just don't have these guys. But you are great. You were great tonight, and I appreciate it. We were laughing like hell. Thank you. Tom Cotton. And he is a rising star in our Nation, not our party only—in our Nation. He's got a great future. Smart and a good guy.
I was hoping we'd also see Adam Schiff—wonderful guy. [Laughter] Leak—"leakin' Adam." [Laughter] That guy leaks more than any human being I've ever seen. I swear. [Laughter] He'll be in the middle of a meeting. What is he, on some committee? Congressional committee? Mike, what is? Intelligence? Judiciary? What the hell committee is he in? [Laughter] That's the only thing he doesn't know, is what the committee he's on. Because he's on the phone so much, he doesn't have any time. "Hey, let's call these guys over at Jeff Zucker's network." [Laughter] Probably calls Jeff—I don't even know, is that legal? Are you allowed to go to a very close—and just, every half hour, 45 minutes, "I got a little breaking news"?
But Adam Schiff—and he was going to come tonight, and then he heard that this was not a televised event, so he stayed home. [Laughter] He stayed home. But Adam is constantly on television pushing the idea that somehow I would undermine democracy. That I was going to undermine—I love democracy. But he thinks I'm going to undermine democracy. So I have to tell him, I have great respect for the various branches of government—the executive, the legislative, the judicial, very important—and, last, Fox News. [Laughter] I have a lot of respect for Fox News. [Laughter] I do. Thank God for Fox News.
I often think that the Democrats would be better off if they learned a thing or two from us. They can learn from us. For instance, you might have noticed that some of the best lines from my campaign followed a certain pattern. "Drain the swamp." Remember that, when I said it? I hated it. I tell you, somebody wrote that one down for me. I said: "This is so hokey. 'Drain the swamp'."
And I was in front of this massive crowd—25,000 people—and I said, very low, "Drain the swamp." And they went crazy. I said, "Whoa." Then, I said it in the next speech, "Drain the swamp." And now I love it. "Drain the swamp."
But we had "drain the swamp." We had "lock her up." We had "build the wall." "Build the wall." Nancy Pelosi has been trying to come up with a line that's equal. And her line that she announced last week is "mow the grass." It doesn't work, Nancy. [Laughter] "Mow the grass." Mow the freaking grass. You believe it? [Laughter] That's going to stop MS-13, Nancy. Mow that freaking grass, Nancy. Get out there with your lawnmower. [Laughter] Man, she's crazy. [Laughter] But she's a fine woman. [Laughter] She is. She is. I actually like Nancy Pelosi. Can you believe it?
Her and Maxine Waters. How about that one? Maxine Waters. "He must be impeached." That's all she knows how to say. "He must be impeached. Impeach him." They said, "But he's done nothing wrong." "Doesn't matter." They say, "What has he done wrong?" "I don't know. He's got to be impeached." And then I say—and I get in trouble for this—she has to immediately take an IQ test. And people go crazy. [Laughter] They went crazy.
But Maxine and Nancy and these people, there's a lot of hatred. There's so much hatred. We have to stop. Mike, we have to stop the hatred. And that's true. Really, it is true—the hatred.
But Nancy is worth tens of millions of dollars, and she's a populist. I mean, she's very—you know, she really considers herself that. And I really try and tell her that you can't be a true populist unless you're worth at least $10 billion. It works much better. It's much better. [Laughter] People like you better. I don't know how the hell they like me, but, boy, I love those people. I love them. I really do.
I understand that, in recognition of our massive tax cuts, Nancy suggested that—oh, I'm not going to say this one—the dessert should be crumb cake. Give me a break. But, you know, the word "crumb" is not working out well for Nancy.
On the way in tonight, someone asked me what I think about the DREAMers. I love the DREAMers. I do love the DREAMers. We're going to help the DREAMers. We're going to help the DREAMers. I got to tell you, I'll be honest—I know you have a lot of Democrats, but I really believe that Republicans want to solve this problem—DACA—more than the Democrats, and certainly faster. So we're all working together, and I hope that something is going to happen. I really do. I hope that something is going to happen.
But we were talking about the DREAMers, and quite honestly, Democrats can fantasize all they want about winning in 2020. Those are the dreamers. [Laughter] We're going to do well. I'm a dreamer also. [Laughter] Eh, I don't like that.
Then there's talk about Joe Biden—"Sleepy Joe"—getting into the race. Remember he said, "I want to take him behind the barn"? Oh, I just—trust me, I would kick his ass like nobody. [Laughter] Man, would he be easy. Oh, would he be easy. Some of the guys know—some of the people in this room.
But, Joe, give me a break. A guy who keeps making outrageous statements thinks he has a shot for being President? The guy makes outrageous statements. [Laughter] He's going to be President? He doesn't have a shot. [Laughter]
And Oprah—oh, here's my next one. [Laughter] Oprah. I don't think she's ever been hit, verbally, yet, right? She's led a charmed life. She's done a great job. She used to love me. You know, I was on one of her last shows—the Trump family. We're going to have to replay that for her. We're going to have to. I was on one of her last shows on television—the Trump family.
That was nice. But she's thinking about running. She says she'll run only if she gets the go ahead from the Almighty. All right, Oprah, go ahead and run. [Laughter] I want you to run. No, I want her to run. I've given her approval. [Laughter]
I wonder how she'll—that's just one guy laughing. I love him. [Laughter] Where are you? Stand up. Whoever the hell you are. Boy, does he got a—no, I like him. He's definitely a Trump guy, that guy. [Laughter]
Audience member. [Laughter] I'm sorry.
The President. You're the greatest, man. You voted for me, like a lot of other people do, about five or six times, I'll bet. Right? [Laughter]
And then we have Elizabeth Warren. You know, I watched her making a speech for Hillary, and I said, "I think she's losing all of the male vote for Hillary Clinton." It was brutal. It was mean and angry.
But Elizabeth Warren, who had a rough day last week trying to prove her heritage. She had a rough day. And she had a good suggestion, though, about easing world tensions. The world is quite tense. Some of this stuff should have happened over the last 20 years, but it didn't. So we're going to solve the problem. But she said that Rex Tillerson and I should sit down with the leaders of Iran and North Korea and smoke a peace pipe. Eh, not the greatest. I knew that one—I knew that was not going to be good. [Laughter] I didn't like that one. I didn't like that. Pocahontas.
I won't rule out direct talks with Kim Jong Un. I just won't. As far as the risk of dealing with a madman is concerned, that's his problem, not mine. [Laughter] That's his problem. That's his problem. He must be a fine man. Do you think he's a fine man? Yes.
Although, we did save the Olympics. President Moon gave us a lot of credit. Said it was President Trump that made the Olympics successful. Because there weren't a lot of people that wanted to go into that stadium with the potential of a problem, a big problem. And he gave us all a lot of credit. He said, without President Trump and his strong attitude, they would have never called up and said, "Hey, we'd love to be in the Olympics together." And that's true. And then, you know, whether people want to hear it or not.
And they had a very successful Olympics. That was heading for disaster. They weren't selling tickets. It was heading for disaster. And now we're talking. And they, by the way, called up a couple of days ago, and they said, "We would like to talk." And I said: "So would we, but you have to denuke. You have to denuke." So let's see what happens. Let's see what happens.
You know, when the media said, and when I said, "My bomb is bigger than yours, and mine works," everyone gave me a hard time. What a terrible thing. They didn't say what he said. He said, "I have a button on my desk, and I am prepared to use it." Nobody ever said that.
So my statement was in response. But maybe positive things are happening. I hope that's true. I mean, I say that in all seriousness, I hope that's true. And we're going to soon know. But we will be meeting, and we'll see if anything positive happens. It's been a long time. It's a problem that should have been fixed a long time ago, not now. It's very far down the road. Thank you.
And I know there's been a lot of talk about Twitter and social media this year, but it really can be an important form of modern day communication. If I didn't have Twitter, how would General Kelly and General McMaster know what it is that they're supposed to say that day? [Laughter] They wouldn't know. They'd have no idea. [Laughter]
There's been a lot of criticism of John Kelly in the press, which I think is very, very unfair. He's doing an amazing job. He even told me he would let Ivanka visit the Oval Office when she gets home from representing us in the Olympics—and she did. So, Ivanka, did you enjoy your visit? I hope so. That was very nice.
And, by the way, Ivanka did an incredible job representing our country at the Olympics. She did. She did.
Many people have asked me how my time as a reality TV star prepared me for the Presidency. The truth is, there's very little overlap between the two. Very little. In one job, I had to manage a cutthroat cast of characters desperate for TV time, totally unprepared for their roles and their jobs, and each week afraid of having their asses fired. [Laughter] In the other job, I was the host of a smash television hit. [Laughter] Right? No, it's true. It's true.
By the way, television is so easy compared to this deal. [Laughter] This deal is—but we love it. Got to love it.
I know we all came here tonight to have fun and tell jokes, but I also think we need to discuss the issues. Issues are very important. To me, very important. For example, we've got a new plan to tackle global warming—one of my favorite subjects. We're going to reduce the carbon footprint when we travel by shrinking the press pool, so that we only have room for Sean Hannity, Lou Dobbs, and Judge Jeanine. People we love very much. [Laughter] They've been great.
Well, I better wrap it up. I have to be up early tomorrow morning—6 o'clock—to be listening to "Fox & Friends." [Laughter] They actually do a great job.
But I do want to say, this is one of the best times I can ever remember having with the media. This might be the most fun I've had since watching your faces on election night. [Laughter] It's true. Oh. [Laughter] Oh, that was a brutal evening for some of you. I apologize. Years, years, years taken off your life. Oh. [Laughter] Oh, John King with that beautiful red map. His hand was shaking toward the end. You know, I love the way he uses that map. He's good at it, I'll tell you. But at the end, he was like, "Oh, Wisconsin." [Laughter] "Don't tell me Wisconsin—this hand is. No, no, it can't be happening." [Laughter]
And then it was Michigan. Remember, they wouldn't call Pennsylvania. There was 1 percent of the vote to go in Pennsylvania. It was, like, 11 o'clock. One percent of the vote to go. They wouldn't call it. And if I lost every one of the votes, I won by a lot. They wouldn't call it. [Laughter]
So instead, they called Wisconsin, and then John King, remember, "The winner of the great State of Michigan." He's going, "Michigan." He said, "I think Trump won Michigan. This can't be happening." And that hand was up. And we won Michigan.
By the way, that was an exciting—even if—look, whether you like me or don't, you have to say, that was good—that was an exciting evening. That was an exciting evening.
I mean, a lot of tears were in this room, though. You're not supposed to cry. Mike, are they supposed to be crying at somebody winning or somebody—you're supposed to be a little—let's be a little bit more impartial. It would be a good thing.
But you know, I'll tell what, I do have a lot of respect for a lot of the people in this room—even people that have been very strong opponents. I have developed a lot of respect. Fairness is important to me. But, you know, you've got your point of view. And a lot of you cover things very squarely. And there are few professions that I respect more.
And I'd like to thank the Gridiron Club and Foundation—the Foundation does an incredible job—for this wonderful evening. I want to thank all of the amazing speakers, and, really, performers—some very good performers. They really are. I mean, really talented.
And, finally, I want to thank the press for all you do to support and sustain our democracy. I mean that. I mean that. Some incredible people in the press. Really, I don't get to say it often. But you have some incredible, brilliant, powerful, smart, and fair people in the press. And I want to thank you.
My greatest wish is that we can all work together to make America safe and just and free for all Americans. We have a great country. And we all, together, will make it even better.
Thank you all very much. This is a great honor. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you, folks.
  