
    Pool Reports by Courtney Rozen, Bloomberg Government 



Sent:
Reports:




March 1, 2023 08:58

In-Town Pool Report 1
Good morning. I will be your in-town print pooler for March 1.
The president's first public event of the day is in the East Room. The press office asked the TV pool to set up equipment at about 8 a.m. Print pooler will let you know when the rest of pool is called to gather.
See below for details on first event.
9:30 AM THE PRESIDENT delivers remarks on his nomination of Julie Su to serve as the Secretary of Labor; THE VICE PRESIDENT attends East Room 


March 1, 2023 09:17

In-Town Pool Report 2
The pool is gathering for President Biden's speech on the nomination of Julie Su as of 9:15 a.m. 


March 1, 2023 09:34

In-Town Pool Report 3
Pool is in the East Room as of 9:24 a.m. Room is packed with guests. Pooler spots Rep. Chu of California and Secretary Marty Walsh. Senior staff members Mitch Landrieu and Jen Klein are seated right in front of the pool.
Room got quiet at 9:32 a.m. 


March 1, 2023 09:40

In-Town Pool Report 4
Two-minute warning called at 9:37 a.m. 


March 1, 2023 10:10

In-Town Pool Report 5
An announcer introduced the president, vice president and Deputy Secretary Su at 9:43 a.m.
Speeches wrapped at 10:02 a.m.
See below for message from White House press office. Pooler also spotted Jeff Zients, Mitch Landrieu, and Jen Klein.
In attendance for the President's remarks on his nomination of Julie Su to serve as Secretary of Labor:
The Vice President Secretary Marty Walsh, Department of Labor Secretary Debra Haaland, Department of the Interior Secretary Tom Vilsack, Department of Agriculture Secretary Xavier Becerra, Department of Health and Human Services Secretary Denis McDonough, Department of Veterans Affairs Ambassador Katherine Tai, U.S. Trade Representative Senator Chris Coons (DE)  Senator Mazie Hirono (HI)  Senator Ed Markey (MA)  Senator Tammy Duckworth (IL)  Rep. Bobby Scott (VA-03)  Rep. Judy Chu (CA-28)  Rep. Suzanne Bonamici (OR-01) Rep. Grace Meng (NY-06)  Rep. Don Norcross (NJ-01)  Rep. Nanette Barragan (CA-44)  Rep. Pramila Jayapal (WA-07)  Rep. Haley Stevens (MI-11) Rep. Frank Mrvan (IN-01) Rep. Jamaal Bowman (NY-16) Rep. Mark DeSaulnier (CA-10) Rep. Mark Takano (CA-39)  Rep. Shri Thanedar (MI-13) Rep. Brandon Williams (NY-22) Rep. Lori Chavez-Deremer (OR-05)  Delegate Gregorio Kilili Sablan (NMI)
Labor Leaders Jason Ambrosi, President, Air Line Pilots Association (ALPA) Matthew Biggs, President, International Federation of Professional & Technical Engineers (IFPTE) James Callahan, President, International Union of Operating Engineers (IUOE) Kenneth Cooper, President of International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers (IBEW) John Costa Jr., President, Amalgamated Transit Union (ATU) Eric Dean, President, International Association of Iron Workers Mary Kay Henry, President, Service Employees International Union (SEIU) Timothy Driscoll, President, Bricklayers and Allies Trades (BAC) Sean O'Brien, President, Teamsters Marc Perrone, President, United Food & Commercial Workers International Union (UFCW) Becky Pringle, President, National Education Association (NEA) Greg Regan, President, Transportation Trades Department (TTD) Brian Renfroe, President, National Association of Letter Carriers (NALC) Lee Saunders, President, American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees (AFSCME) Anthony Shelton, President, Bakery, Confectionery, Tobacco Workers and Grain Millers International Union (BCTGM) Liz Shuler, President, AFL-CIORhonda Weingarten, President, American Federation of Teachers (AFT) 


March 1, 2023 10:31

In-Town Pool Report 5a
Pooler spotted Sara Nelson of the Association of Flight Attendants-CWA. Also, Jennifer O'Malley Dillon, Neera Tanden, and Lael Brainard.
President Biden and Vice President Harris were still in the East Room shaking hands as of 10:25 a.m. Most of the guests had left the room.
President Biden left the East Room at 10:27 a.m. Pool left shortly after. 


March 1, 2023 11:10

In-Town Pool Report 6
Pool is gathering at the Palm Room doors as of 11:08 a.m. 


March 1, 2023 11:22

In-Town Pool Report 7
Pool is loaded in our vans ahead of President Biden's departure for the Department of Homeland Security.
Below are details on the ceremony provided by DHS this morning in a press release.
The Department is holding a special ceremony at the DHS Headquarters at the St. Elizabeths Campus in Washington, DC to honor the workforce and to recognize the 32,000 plank holders who joined DHS on its first day and continue to serve the Department today. The ceremony will include special remarks by Secretary Mayorkas, recorded messages from former Secretary Tom Ridge and former President George W. Bush, and a conversation with individuals across the Department who have served since its inception. The event will be livestreamed at noon on DHS.gov/Live. 


March 1, 2023 12:05

In-Town Pool Report 7a
FYI: Pool is still holding in vans on South Lawn. 


March 1, 2023 12:10

In-Town Pool Report 8
President Biden was in the beast as of 12:09. Pooler could not see him clearly. Motorcade departed from White House South Lawn at 12:09
Pool is going to need to move quickly upon arrival at DHS and may be delayed in sending reports. There should be Wi-Fi inside so pooler will aim to provide details as quickly as possible. 


March 1, 2023 12:12

In-Town Pool Report 8a
See below from press office.
Traveling with the President via motorcade en route to the Department of Homeland Security:
Liz Sherwood-Randall, Assistant to the President & Homeland Security Advisor & Deputy National Security Advisor Evan Ryan, Assistant to the President & Cabinet Secretary  Vinay Reddy, Assistant to the President & Director of Speechwriting Ben Labolt, Assistant to the President & Director of Communications  Ashley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Outer Oval Operations Travis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director 


March 1, 2023 12:31

In-Town Pool Report #9
The motorcade arrived at the Department of Homeland Security at 12:23 p.m. The pool did not see President Biden enter. Pool walked into an auditorium shortly before the singing of the National Anthem.
President Biden is at the lectern and about to speak as of 12:30. 


March 1, 2023 12:50

In-Town Pool Report 10
President Biden finished speaking at 12:42 p.m. He walked off the stage. Staff ushered the press pool out. Pool loaded in vans as of 12:44 p.m.
Motorcade rolling as of 12:49 p.m. Pool did not see president get into car.
See below messages from president's press office.
In attendance for the President's remarks at the Department of Homeland Security's 20th Anniversary Ceremony:
Secretary Alejandro Mayorkas, Department of Homeland Security Deputy Secretary John Tien, Department of Homeland Security Former and current Department of Homeland Security employees, leadership, and officials
Pre-Program Singing of the National Anthem Invocation
Speaking Program Secretary Alejandro Mayorkas, Department of Homeland Security The President
Participating in a greet with the President at the Department of Homeland Security:
Secretary Alejandro Mayorkas, Department of Homeland Security
DHS plank holders – employees who have been at the agency since Day 1 Clifford Brown, Executive Officer, Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) Sheronda DeRohn, Budget Officer, Federal Law Enforcement Training Centers (FLETC) Paige Pinson, U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) Janene Corrado, Chief of Staff, Office of the Under Secretary for Management (MGMT) 


March 1, 2023 13:08

In-Town Pool Report 11
Motorcade arrived at the White House at 1:03 p.m. Pooler did not see president exit his car. 


March 1, 2023 13:13

In-Town Pool Report 12
Lid called until 2 p.m. 


March 1, 2023 13:55

In-Town Pool Report 13
Briefing delayed until 2:30 p.m, according to the White House press office.


March 1, 2023 14:43

In-Town Pool Report 14
Two minutes until press briefing called at 2:42 p.m. 


March 1, 2023 15:50

In-Town Pool Report 15
Karine Jean-Pierre's press briefing began at 2:45 and ended at 3:43. 


March 1, 2023 17:01

In-Town Pool Report 16
Pool asked to gather for President Biden's departure by 5:05 p.m.


March 1, 2023 17:57

In-Town Pool Report 17
President Biden took two questions from reporters on the South Lawn before departing. One on insulin and the other on student loan relief.
Q on student loan relief: Are you confident you will be able to win in the Supreme Court?
POTUS "I'm confident we're on the right side of the law. I'm not confident about the outcome of the decision yet."
Pooler is working on getting exact quote on insulin. POTUS made no news on that question.
POTUS boarded Marine One at 5:39 p.m. Wheels up at 5:43 p.m.
See below from press office.
Traveling with the President aboard Marine One en route to Fort McHenry Landing Zone:
Steve Ricchetti, Assistant to the President & Counselor to the President Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff Louisa Terrell, Assistant to the President & Director of the Office of Legislative Affairs Ben LaBolt, Assistant to the President & Director of Communications  Sheila Grant, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Presidential Speechwriter


March 1, 2023 18:03

In-Town Pool Report 17a
On insulin:
Q: What do you make of Eli Lilly's decision on capping insulin prices at $35 a month?
"I think it's good."
"Once we expose these things, it's awful hard to defend them. And once one major carrier or one major operator changes, it changes everything. I think we made a lot of progress." 


March 1, 202320:54

In-Town Pool Report 18
Pool is waiting on the South Lawn driveway for Marine One arrival.


March 1, 202321:11

In-Town Pool Report 19
Marine One landed on the South Lawn at 9:01 p.m. President Biden walked down the steps of the chopper at 9:04 p.m. He took no questions from reporters before walking into the White House at 9:04 p.m.
Lid called by the White House press office at 9:09 p.m.
Have a great night.




Pool Reports below by Matt Viser, The Washington Post 



Sent:
Reports:




March 1, 2023 18:12

Out of town pool report #1 / Marine One arrival
Your out of town pool, stationed here after a rush hour van ride, was in place as Marine One landed at Fort McHenry in Baltimore at 6:04pm.
Pool was at a distance of about 50 yards away, with your pooler's vision blocked by motorcade cars that had moved into place — so didn't see POTUS enter the Beast.
The temperature is 50 degrees, the sun is setting, and the wind is blowing.
As of 6:10pm we are now rolling toward the Hyatt Regency Baltimore Inner Harbor, where POTUS is scheduled to speak at the House Democratic Caucus Retreat. 


March 1, 2023 18:23

Out of town pool report #2 / arrival at Hyatt
After an uneventful ride, motorcade arrived at the Hyatt Regency Baltimore Inner Harbor at 6:20pm.
As motorcade left Fort McHenry, a street was lined with people taking photos and waving flags.
As we turned toward the event site, one man was holding a sign over his head that read: STOP ARMING UKRAINE
From WH:
Traveling with the President via motorcade en route to the House Democratic Caucus Issues Conference:
Steve Ricchetti, Assistant to the President & Counselor to the President Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff Louisa Terrell, Assistant to the President & Director of the Office of Legislative Affairs Emmy Ruiz, Assistant to the President & Director of Political Strategy & Outreach Ben LaBolt, Assistant to the President & Director of Communications  Ashley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office Operations Travis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director Sheila Grant, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Presidential Speechwriter Kimberly Gahan, Special Assistant to the President & Principal Deputy National Security Council Legal Advisor & Associate Counsel Emilie Simons, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Press Secretary 


March 1, 2023 18:38

Out of town pool report #3 / attendees
The event is in a ballroom that has numbers for some 32 tables, with seating for 10 people per table (although not every table is completely full).
Two big screens at the front of the room had text that reads: "House Democrats / 2023 Issues Conference." Those screens are now showing thee speakers, who are on a stage with nine large American flags.
The lights have gone off and on a few times and at 6:33pm, the program got started. It's livestreamed but will try to flag any key moments in forthcoming pool reports. We have a 2 min warning for POTUS as of 6:37pm.
From the WH:
At the Hyatt Regency Baltimore Inner Harbor, the President greeted with:
Governor Wes Moore, Maryland  House Minority Leader Hakeem Jeffries (NY-08) House Minority Whip Katherine Clark (MA-05) Speaker Emerita Nancy Pelosi (CA-11) Rep. Pete Aguilar, Chair of the House Democratic Caucus (CA-33) Rep. Steny Hoyer (MD-05) Rep. Jim Clyburn (SC-06)
And also from the WH, here's a list of those in attendance for the President's remarks at the House Democratic Caucus Issues Conference:
Governor Wes Moore, Maryland  House Minority Leader Hakeem Jeffries (NY-08) House Minority Whip Katherine Clark (MA-05) Rep. Pete Aguilar, Chair of the House Democratic Caucus (CA-33) Speaker Emerita Nancy Pelosi (CA-11) Rep. Steny Hoyer (MD-05) Rep. Jim Clyburn (SC-06) Rep. Suzanne Bonamici (OR-01) Rep. Salud Carbajal (CA-24) Rep. Marilyn Strickland (WA-10) Rep. Chris Deluzio (PA-17) Other Members of Congress
Pre-Program Rep. Steny Hoyer (MD-05) Governor Wes Moore, Maryland
Speaking Program Rep. Pete Aguilar, Chair of the House Democratic Caucus (CA-33) House Minority Leader Hakeem Jeffries (NY-08) The President 


March 1, 2023 19:11

Out-of-town pool report #4 / POTUS remarks
POTUS took the stage at 6:41pm, and seemed in a joking mood.
"It's good to be almost home," he said, an apparent reference to being closer to Wilmington. He called out Nancy Pelosi, "the greatest speaker of all time." And he joked that she was helpful to him "all the years I was a senator – which was 270."
He started with a message of unity among Democrats, saying, "it's been one of the most successful, united caucuses we've ever seen." He talked about their electoral wins, including a recent special election in Virginia. "We stuck together," he said. "We really did."
He largely focused on some of the accomplishments over the past two years. He hailed a new tunnel that would be built in Baltimore, bringing along a new sign that he said would be put up: Frederick Douglass Tunnel. He talked about policies like pharma, CHIPs, and attempts to lower inflation – and he said there would be new efforts to remind voters of polices they have passed. "We're going so far as to print signs to indicate who is bringing in this project, and why it's happening," he said of infrastructure.
He went through a list of things he wanted to do:
"We're going to ban assault weapons again, come hell or high water," he said at one point.
"We've got to reinstate Roe v Wade and pass it nationally," he said at another.
He then turned toward Republicans.
"I know as well as you the MAGA Republicans are not going to get on board with some of this. But that leaves a lot of republicans who are still left," he said. "I predict -- watch, watch what happens. Republicans can help make a significant majority in some of these things."
"A little more of Marjorie Taylor Greene and you're going to have a lot more Republicans coming our way," he added and then paused. "Isn't she amazing?"
"Look folks, I don't want to get started," he continued.
He kept suggesting he shouldn't digress. The crowd seemed to be interested in his digressions, but he returned to some of the prepared text.
"So what we did in the past two years -- whenever possible, we should work on both sides of the aisle, get as much done as we can," he said.
Normal caveats to check all of the above against transcript.
At 7:09pm, POTUS remarks wrapped up. Lights went on, and pool is being ushered out of the room. 


March 1, 2023 19:37

Out of town pool #5 / POTUS takes questions, pool holds
After pool was escorted out of the banquet hall (called the Constellation Ballroom), POTUS stayed and took questions from the members in the room.
From the hallway, POTUS could be seen seated on the stage with a microphone, answering questions. But the doors to the room then closed and pool headed for the vans.
Pool is holding outside the hotel as we await the Q and A conclusion.


March 1, 2023 20:22

Out of town pool report #6 / rolling
Motorcade started rolling at 8:20pm, heading back toward Fort McHenry where POTUS is schedule to lift off for the trip back to the White House.


March 1, 2023 20:38

Out of town pool report #7 / Marine One liftoff
The short motorcade ride back to Fort McHenry was uneventful — although we passed M&T Bank Stadium, home of the Baltimore Ravens and nicely lit up in red, white, and blue.
We arrived at 8:30pm, and POTUS walked over and boarded Marine One. We were at a distance and engines loud, so no shouted questions. Marine One lifted at 8:36pm.
Traveling with the President aboard Marine One en route to the White House:
Steve Ricchetti, Assistant to the President & Counselor to the President Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff Louisa Terrell, Assistant to the President & Director of the Office of Legislative Affairs Emmy Ruiz, Assistant to the President & Director of Political Strategy & Outreach Ben LaBolt, Assistant to the President & Director of Communications
It's been a pooling pleasure here in Baltimore. 



  