
    Dear Mr. Speaker: (Dear Mr. Chairman..)
In accordance with the provision of Public Law 95-384, I am submitting the following report on progress made during the past 60 days toward reaching a negotiated settlement of the Cyprus problem.
In the course of continuing discussion of the United Nations "evaluation" of the intercommunal negotiations, the Greek Cypriot and Turkish Cypriot negotiators met on February 1, 8, 18, and 22 and March 3, 10, 17 and 22. The negotiators are examining the ideas and concepts postulated by the "evaluation" seeking agreement on "points of coincidence" among the issues under discussion between the communities. Meetings have been serious and businesslike focusing on detailed analysis of specific points.
The United Nations deserves our high praise for its rare combination of patience and energy in working to resolve the Cyprus problem. United Nations Secretary General Perez de Cuellar has repeatedly expressed his interest in working to resolve the Cyprus issue. This commitment combined with his unique background on the Cyprus problem reinforces hopes for progress. Likewise, the Special Representative of the Secretary General on Cyprus, Ambassador Gobbi, is proceeding with remarkable diplomatic skill to promote an environment congenial to substantive negotiation.
I wish to reemphasize the concern of my Administration over Cyprus and the commitment of the United States to assist the United Nations in its effort to foster a just, fair and lasting settlement to the Cyprus problem. Resolution of the Cyprus problem is a priority for the United States and, as. evidenced by the United Nations sponsorship of the intercommunal talks, an international priority as well. We believe that the intercommunal negotiations, as epitomized by the ongoing discussion of the United Nations ".evaluation," provide the best course for resolving the Cyprus dilemma. Doubtlessly, the negotiating path will be protracted with obstacles to be overcome. With patience, energy and innovative effort, however, mutually acceptable solutions to outstanding differences are possible.
Sincerely,
RONALD REAGAN
  