
    Today, former Senator Mark Begich and 27 elected and community leaders from across Alaska announced their endorsement of Joe Biden for President of the United States.
"In these uncertain times, our country needs a President who knows how to lead and knows how to guide a nation in crisis. Joe Biden is battle tested and I feel confident that on day one he will get to work and get our country back on track for families in Alaska and across the country," said former Senator Mark Begich. "His experience and empathy set him apart and that is how I know Joe is the best candidate to take on Donald Trump and help elect Democrats all across the United States. I'm proud to endorse him."
Begich served in the United States Senate from 2009 to 2015. Prior to that he was the Mayor of Anchorage and served in the Anchorage Assembly.
Today's endorsements also include:

Fran Ulmer, Former Lieutenant Governor of Alaska
Elvira Gray-Jackson, Alaska State Senator
Donny Olson, Alaska State Senator
Zack Fields, Alaska State Representative
Matt Claman, Alaska State Representative
Harriet Dummond, Alaska State Representative
Chris Tuck, Alaska State Representative
Andy Josephsen, Alaska State Representative
Kay Brown, Former Alaska State Representative
Beth Kertulla, Former Alaska State Representative
Deborah Bonito, Former First Lady of Anchorage
Pat Abney, Former Anchorage Assemblymember
Veronica Slajer, Community Leader
Diane DiSanto, Community Leader
Johnny Ellis, Former Alaska State Senator and State Representative
Mike Szmanski, Former Alaska State Senator and State Representative
Les Gara, Former Alaska State Representative
Lois Epstein, Community Leader
Hollis French, Former Democratic Leader, Alaska State Senate
Alberta Gardner, Former Democratic Leader, Alaska State Senate
Sue Libenson, Community Leader
Kimberly Metcalfe, Former Democratic National Committee Member
David Ramseur, Community Leader
John Rubini, Community Leader
Greer Gehler, Community Leader
Sue Libenson, Community Leader
Jason Nelson, Community Leader
Karl Ohls, Community Leader

Biden for President has previously announced more than 2,500 endorsements from national, state, and local leaders, including current and former U.S. senators and representatives, governors, state elected officials, community leaders, and national security professionals.
The health and safety of our staff, supporters, and the general public is Biden for President's number one priority. During this pandemic, we are calling on all voters to follow social distancing guidelines to slow the spread of COVID-19. Officials with the Alaska Democratic Party have issued precautions to ensure you can exercise your right to vote by holding a primary that is only vote-by-mail. Learn more at joebiden.com/voter-guide.
  