
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate four individuals to serve in his administration.
The President intends to nominate William Burns to be Assistant Secretary of State for the Near East. He is a career Foreign Service Officer who has held the post of Ambassador to Jordan since 1998 and served as Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for the Near East and South Asian Affairs from 1986 to 1989. He is the recipient of a number of State Department awards including the Distinguished Honor Award and the James Clement Dunn Award.
The President intends to nominate Lou Gallegos to be Assistant Secretary of Agriculture for Administration. He currently serves as Chief of Staff to Governor Gary Johnson of New Mexico and has served as the Secretary of the New Mexico Human Services Department. In 1989 he was appointed Assistant Secretary of the Interior for Policy Management and Budget. He is a veteran of the U.S. Air Force and a graduate of New Mexico Highlands University.
The President intends to nominate Powell A. Moore to be Assistant Secretary of Defense for Legislative Affairs. He currently is Chief of Staff for Senator Fred Thompson of Tennessee. He was appointed Assistant Secretary of State for Intergovernmental and Legislative Affairs in 1982 and served former President Reagan as Deputy Assistant to the President for Legislative Affairs in 1981. Originally from Millegville, Georgia, Moore is a veteran of the U.S. Army and a graduate of the University of Georgia.
The President intends to nominate John Charles Weicher to be Assistant Secretary of Housing and Urban Development and serve as the Federal Housing Commissioner. He is presently a Senior Fellow and Director of Urban Studies at the Hudson Institute and served as Assistant Secretary for Policy Development and Research from 1989 to 1993. He was Associate Director of Economic Policy at the Office of Management and Budget from 1987 to 1989 and was Deputy Assistant Secretary for Economic Affairs at HUD from 1975 to 1977. He is a graduate of the University of Michigan and received his Ph.D. from the University of Chicago.
  