
    New web video solicits ideas to reshape government
WASHINGTON, D.C.— Today, President Obama released a video message to Federal employees from across the country, thanking them for their service and inviting them to submit ideas to reshape the Federal Government. Employees can share their first hand knowledge about what's working and what isn't and submit ideas to boost America's competitiveness at www.WhiteHouse.gov/FederalVoices.
In his State of the Union address, the President announced a new initiative to look at the structure of the federal government, particularly as it relates to supporting America's competitiveness. He issued a Presidential Memorandum directing his Chief Performance Officer and the Office of Management and Budget's Deputy Director for Management Jeffrey Zients to work closely with Agencies and Departments to analyze the scope and effectiveness of their programs, areas of overlap and duplication, unmet needs, and possible cost savings with a focus on increasing trade, exports, and our overall competitiveness.
The President is encouraging frontline Federal workers to submit ideas to increase trade, exports and overall competitiveness or make other parts of the government more efficient and effective. They can also comment on ideas submitted by others.
"This isn't just about cutting costs," says President Obama in the video. "It's also about making government work better for the people we serve. And we know there are areas where we have room for improvement."
"We know that often, the best ideas come frontline workers," says Federal Chief Performance Office and OMB Deputy Director for Management Jeffrey Zients. "As we work to reshape the government to win the future, it's imperative that we harness the creativity and insight of the Federal workforce."
Changing the way the Federal government does business to make it work more effectively and efficiently has been a major priority for President Obama. That's why the Administration is buying smarter and cut contracting costs for the first time in 13 years. And it's why we put forward a plan to cut through the red tape and finally get rid of billions of dollars in excess real estate. Whether it's rooting out waste or leveraging the latest technology to deliver better service faster and more cost effectively, this Administration is committed to creating a more effective and efficient government that works for all Americans.
To view President Obama's video, click HERE.
Read the President's full remarks to Federal Employees here:
Hello everybody. I want to take a moment to speak with all of you – our federal employees – about a new effort we're undertaking and how you can get involved.
As public servants, you help to protect our environment and educate our children. You safeguard our public health, serve our veterans, and keep our nation secure. And as President, I'm grateful to you for your service you provide to our country.
Every day, you all strive to do your very best work for the American people. But I know that sometimes, your best efforts are hindered by outdated technology, systems, or programs that don't always work as they should. The fact is, even as the world around us has changed, our government has much of the same basic structure as it did half a century ago.
We all know that America can't win the future with a government of the past. We need a government that's more efficient and effective; that gets rid of waste and better harnesses the technologies that have already transformed our economy.
That's why we started by going through the budget, line by line, making some difficult cuts – even to worthy programs we'd otherwise support. And we're spending smarter and reducing red tape. Because just as families have to make sacrifices in hard times to make ends meet, the government needs to do the same.
But this isn't just about cutting costs. It's also about making government work better for the people we serve. And we know there are areas where we have room for improvement. For example, we've got a dozen different agencies dealing with trade and exports, and more than 50 federal programs to help entrepreneurs. Oftentimes, our businesses don't know where to turn. And those are just a couple examples.
That's why we need to reorganize our government so as to best serve the goal of a more competitive America. We're starting with the areas that handle exports, trade and business competitiveness. And we need your help.
You know what works and what doesn't. And you know why this is so important. So I'm asking you to go to WhiteHouse.gov/FederalVoices to share your thoughts about this project.
Your ideas will be a critical part of this effort, and I look forward to hearing from all of you in the days ahead.
Thanks so much.
  