
    This week, President Biden signed into law the Violence Against Women Act Reauthorization Act of 2022, bipartisan legislation passed by Congress as part of the Omnibus appropriations package.
One of the driving forces of President Biden's career has been fighting back against abuses of power. As a U.S. Senator President Biden championed the groundbreaking Violence Against Women Act (VAWA), landmark legislation that first passed in 1994. In the nearly three decades since, he has worked with Members of Congress from both parties to pass legislation to renew and strengthen VAWA.
In addition, yesterday President Biden delivered remarks at an event celebrating the bill's reauthorization. The President remarked "this reauthorization is testament to the power of your voices and your tireless dedication to changing things for the better."
Community leaders and elected officials applauded the Reauthorization of the Violence Against Women Act.
Members of Congress and the Senate:
Senator Patty Murry, Washington"Proud to join the President at the White House today as he signed #VAWA to protect and support survivors of domestic violence and sexual assault. As part of this bill, my years-long push to get survivors the care they need will finally become law." [Tweet 03/16/22]
Senator Sheldon Whitehouse, Rhode Island"Thank you President Biden for decades of leadership on VAWA!" [Tweet 03/16/22]
Senator Patrick Leahy, Vermont"I was honored to join today's White House event celebrating the reauthorization of the Violence Against Women Act. And it is always a pleasure seeing my good friend, the President, whose work on #VAWA over the years has been instrumental to its success. A much-needed help for survivors." [Tweet 03/16/22]
Representative Jackie Spier (CA-14)"Proud to join the President and the Democratic Women's Caucus for the #VAWA2022 celebration! A victory for survivors of domestic violence, sexual assault, sexual harassment, stalking, & dating violence that addresses the barriers they face & strengthens law enforcement to save lives!"[Tweet 03/16/22]
Representative Veronica Escobar (TX-16)"For decades, the Violence Against Women Act has stood as a pillar of our essential mission to fight domestic violence and sexual assault. I was proud to join the President at the White House today when he signed the monumental reauthorization of #VAWA." [Tweet 03/16/22]
Representative Abigail Spanberger (VA-07)Today's reauthorization of the Violence Against Women Act was long overdue.And I was proud to stand in support of Virginia's survivors at the White House as the Presidentsigned it into law. VAWA saves lives. [Tweet 03/16/22]
Representative Slyvia Garcia (TX-29)I was proud to join the President at the WhiteHouse today alongside Rep. Spanberger, Rep. Escobar, Rep. Speier, Rep.Lawrence, Rep. Clark as he signed the reauthorization of VAWA! [Tweet 03/16/22]
Representative Brenda Lawrence (MI-16)I was honored to join the President for the reauthorization of the Violence Against Women Act. There is nothing partisan or political about ending domestic violence. VAWA gives survivors the support they need and deserve. [Tweet 03/16/22]
Community Leaders and Organizations: 
Ruth Glenn, President, National Coalition Against Domestic Violence"On behalf of the victims, survivors and advocates we represent, we applaud Congress for centering the needs of survivors by reauthorizing the Violence Against Women Act with key enhancements in the omnibus appropriations bill. These updates to VAWA increase access to life-saving services, invest in prevention and improve the responsiveness of systems to the needs of survivors. This VAWA reauthorization recognizes that every survivor is unique with different needs and lived experiences and seeks to address survivors' needs holistically." [Statement 03/15/ 22]
Monika Johnson Holster, National Alliance to End Sexual Violence"This moment, a day to truly celebrate, is the culmination of the work of so many survivors, advocates, policy leaders, and congressional staff and has been almost 10 years in the making. VAWA is an essential tool in our work to address and end genderbased violence, and we are thrilled to know President Biden, longtime champion of VAWA, signed this strong, bipartisan bill into law today. We're grateful to bill sponsors Senators Feinstein, Ernst, Durbin and Murkowski and all of the VAWA co-sponsors and supporters who've made this day a reality." [Statement 03/16/22]
Debra Vagins, President, National Network to End Domestic Violence "Today, President Biden signed the fiscal year 2022 omnibus appropriations bill, which included the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA) Reauthorization of 2022 and much-needed funding increases for domestic violence programs. First enacted in 1994, VAWA creates and supports comprehensive, cost-effective responses to domestic violence, sexual assault, dating violence, and stalking. The National Network to End Domestic Violence (NNEDV) and our 56 member U.S. state and territorial domestic violence coalitions celebrate the reauthorization of VAWA and the signing of the fiscal year 2022 omnibus spending package. President Biden has a legacy of over 25 years of leadership advancing survivors rights in our nation. NNEDV is deeply grateful to the President and to the Senate and House VAWA Reauthorization bill lead sponsors Senators Feinstein (D-CA), Ernst (R-IA), Durbin (D-IL), Murkowski (R-AK), and Representatives Jackson Lee (D-TX), Fitzpatrick (R-PA), and Nadler (D-NY)" [Statement 03/15/22]
Esta Soler, Founder and President, Futures Without Violence "I was so honored to be just a few feet from the President when he said:"It wasn't so long ago this country didn't want to talk about violence against women. As a society, we looked away… This law broke the dam of congressional resistance and cultural resistance… No one, no one, regardless of gender or sexual orientation should experience abuse, period. And if they do, they should have the services and support they need to get through it... All of you should be enormously proud of what you've accomplished. This reauthorization is testament to the power of your voices and your tireless dedication to changing things for the better." He is right! This law will mean our country does more to support survivors, to prevent teen dating violence, sexual assault and rape, to stop online harassment and other predatory behaviors, and to end violence against women and children of every kind. Because the Violence Against Women Act was reauthorized, our families and our communities will be safer." [Statement 03/16/22]
Gary Barker, President, Promundo-US"In supporting the reauthorization, President Biden continued what has been his decades-long example of being an accountable male ally for gender equality. On Wednesday I had the honor of being at the White House ceremony where the President acknowledged the many women's rights activists who made the legislation possible. He also put his finger on the heart of the issue: the power of some men over women, and the inaction of too many men in the face of men's violence against women." [Statement 03/16/22]
The National Task Force to End Sexual and Domestic Violence"Thank you, President for your steadfast commitment to #VAWA4ALL Grateful to you and your tremendous and committed staff for helping us get #VAWA across the finish line." [Tweet 03/15/22]
No More "The Violence Against Women Act (VAWA) was reauthorized today! VAWA gives survivors of domestic and sexual violence greater access to safety, justice, and lifesaving services. We join advocates, allies, and survivors in celebrating this victory!" [Tweet 03/16/22]
Mary Kathryn Nagle, National Indigenous Women's Resource Center General Counsel
"Today the President of the United States announced he was signing VAWA and restoring tribal jurisdiction over non-Indian perpetrated crimes of sexual assault, child abuse, trafficking, and more on tribal lands. Our ancestors were with us." [Tweet 03/15/22]
Women Against Abuse"Thanks to your advocacy, the Violence Against Women Act (#VAWA) was signed into law today! This reauthorization improves our nation's response to survivors, and annual funding ensures communities have the resources they need to address survivors' immediate needs! [Tweet 03/16/22]
Indira Henard, Executive Director, DC Rape Crisis Center "Advocates, survivors, allies, leaders, congressional members and so many more have understood that the Violence Against Women Act -VAWA was the assignment, and the unfinished business of the 21st century. A powerful day at the White House today in celebrating the passage of VAWA!" [Tweet 03/16/22]
Danielle Ligiero, CEO, Together 4 GirlsPresident Biden signed to reauthorize the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA)! This landmark legislation is crucial - protecting women from violence and providing survivors with the resources they need. Thrilled to watch this historical moment during Women's History Month![Statement 03/16/22]
Gloria Blackwell, CEO American Association of University WomenThankful that the President took this important step. AAUW salutes all of our many coalition partners whose efforts supported this critical legislation. #VAWA [Tweet 03/16/22]
League of Women VotersGREAT NEWS: The President signed the reauthorization of the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA) — a critical legislation that protects against gender-based violence. [Tweet 03/16/22]
The Global Women's Institute at the George Washington UniversityWe're so excited that the President has signed #VAWA into law, ensuring access to services and resources for survivors! Thank you to everyone who advocated for this legislation and for those in Congress who championed it. [Tweet 03/16/22]
  