
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
March 19
In the evening, the President and Hillary Clinton attended the Gridiron Dinner at the Capitol Hilton.
The White House announced that the Emperor and Empress of Japan have accepted the President's invitation to visit the United States beginning June 10.
March 20
In the afternoon, the President and Hillary Clinton traveled to Fisher Island, FL.
March 21
In the afternoon, the President and Hillary Clinton went to Deerfield Beach, FL. Later that afternoon, they went to Bal Harbour, FL.
In the evening, the President and Hillary Clinton returned to the White House.
March 23
The President nominated Roger Hilsman, Stanley Sheinbaum, and Robert Shamansky to the National Security Education Board.
The President announced his intent to nominate Jeffrey Rush, Jr., to be the Inspector General of the U.S. Agency for International Development, U.S. International Development Cooperation Agency.
The President announced the appointment of William Arceneaux as the Chairman of the Student Loan Marketing Association (Sallie Mae). In addition, he announced his intent to appoint the following members:
—Mitchell Berger;
—Kris Durmer;
—Diane Gilleland;
—Regina Montoya;
—James Moore;
—Irene Natividad;
—Ronald Thayer.
The President announced the appointment of Thomas W. Hoog and Y.C.L. Susan Woo to the Advisory Board for the National Air and Space Museum.
The President announced his intention to nominate Thomasina "Tommy" Rogers as the Chair of the Administrative Conference of the United States.
March 24
In the afternoon, the President and Hillary Clinton went to Capitol Hill where they attended a meeting with the Senate Democratic Policy Committee.
March 25
In the morning, the President traveled to Pope Air Force Base/Fort Bragg, North Carolina.
In the afternoon, the President returned to Andrews Air Force Base, MD, and then traveled with Hillary and Chelsea Clinton to Dallas, TX.
  