
    Today, former California Senator Barbara Boxer announced she is endorsing Joe Biden for the President of the United States, following a landslide victory in South Carolina and before California votes on Super Tuesday. Senator Boxer released the following announcing her endorsement:
"To defeat the most polarizing and dangerous president in modern history, we need a candidate who unites us, cares about us, and knows how to get things done.
"Like all of us, Joe has been knocked down. Hard. He always gets up and he always finds the beauty, the promise and the hope that lives in every corner of this country we all love. His record proves he understands the values of America.
"Getting the jobs bill done which got us out of the recession? Joe was our leader.
"The Violence Against Women Act? Joe was our leader.
"Getting the Voting Rights Act renewed? Joe was our leader.
"Protecting tourism by protecting our coasts and our dolphins? Joe was our leader.
"Enacting sensible gun laws? Joe was our leader.
"Getting Obamacare through the House and Senate? Joe was our leader.
"The moonshot against cancer? Joe was our leader.
"Getting foreign leaders to act against climate change? Joe was our leader.
"Joe wants to continue to make life better for all of us and he knows how to stand up to bullies. Because of that he can win a broad election victory including in the swing states we must win.
"I invite you to join me in supporting Joe Biden for President."
Senator Boxer's endorsement builds on the wide support for Joe Biden in California, which includes prominent leaders like Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti, Sacramento Mayor Darrell Steingberg, Long Beach Mayor Robert Garcia, Los Angeles County Supervisor and former Secretary of Labor Hilda Solis, Senator Dianne Feinstein, Congresswoman Lucille Roybal-Allard, Congressman Tony Cárdenas, Congressman Ami Bera, Congressman John Garamendi, Congressman Lou Correa, and more than 50 others.
Biden for President has previously announced more than 1,400 endorsements from national, state, and local leaders, including current and former U.S. senators and representatives, governors, state elected officials, community leaders, and national security professionals.
  