
    Secretary Rogers, Mr. Boyatt, and ladies and gentlemen of the Foreign Service, and all of those who are here from the State Department:
I am very pleased to have the opportunity to come here to express appreciation to all of you who have worked in the cause of peace in this Department, some for many years and some, of course, more recently.
I, of course, regret that my presence here is on an occasion which is mingled also with sadness. You will note the plaque that we have just witnessed here a moment ago, and you will note the last two names on the plaque.
We have all read what has happened and heard about it over these past few days. I think you should know that tomorrow, in respect to these men who have died in the service of their country and in service of the cause of peace for the whole world, that the flags, not only in embassies abroad and in the State Department but all over America, have been ordered to be at half-mast1 I have taken this extraordinary action of lowering flags even though the individuals involved were not Members of the Congress or members of the Cabinet, where normally such action is only taken, because I think it is well for the Nation to be reminded of how much we owe to the men and women who serve America in the cause of peace as members of our Foreign Service, in the civilian activities that we have in far-flung areas around the world.
I think of these two men, Ambassador Noel, Mr. Moore, of the country to which they are accredited, the Sudan; I think of the Minister from the Sudan whom I saw this morning. I know that they were there in the cause of peace, and I know that the incident which led to their death was one that was not of this country's making and not of theirs, and yet, they were willing to take this risk. And for their bravery and for their courage, our country can be very thankful.
Secretary Rogers had told me a few months ago that a survey made of the Foreign Service, in which he had asked what would be the attitude of a member of the Foreign Service in the event he were captured and held hostage--what would be the attitude as to what our Government should do. It was unanimous that the United States Government should not submit to demands for blackmail or ransom.
That is a reaction of courageous men and women. That was the attitude of these two men. They were willing to risk their own lives in order that others might live. They were willing also to have their Government take a position of no compromise with terrorism, because they knew that once that compromise was entered into that it could lead to consequences that would be far worse in the years ahead.
I was noting a well-intentioned comment by one individual who raised a question as to whether the United States, in this instance, might have been better advised to bring pressure on another government to release 60 who were held in prison in order to save the lives of 2.
I disagree with that. All of us would have liked to have saved the lives of these two very brave men, but they knew and we knew that in the event we had paid international blackmail in this way, it would have saved their lives, but it would have endangered the lives of hundreds of others all over the world, because once the individual, the terrorist, or the others, has a demand that is made, that is satisfied, he then is encouraged to try it again. And that is why the position of your Government has to be one in the interest of preserving life, of not submitting to international blackmail or extortion anyplace in the world.
That is our policy and that is the policy we are going to continue to have.
Ladies and gentlemen, today we honor two brave men and all of the others here on this plaque and the one on the other side, who have given their lives for their country while serving in the Foreign Service. And today, too, we not only express the policy of the United States of America, but we use this opportunity respectfully to suggest that other governments throughout the world, rather than standing aside, should join with us in taking this firm line against extortion and against international blackmail by terrorist groups.
I am quite aware of the fact that there are some governments who take the line that since they are not the targets of the terrorists, they can stand aside and not join in any international effort to be firm against terrorism, whether it is in the United Nations or bilaterally or multilaterally with other nations.
I would only suggest this: The nation that compromises with the terrorists today could well be destroyed by the terrorists tomorrow. And as far as we are concerned, we therefore feel we are on very sound ground in calling upon the whole world community to join together in a firm stand against international outlaws who today endanger the nationals of one country, maybe the United States, and tomorrow will endanger the lives of others.
Finally, on this particular day, may I close as I began, by expressing the deep appreciation of the President of the United States and all that the President represents in his office for your service to the country.
I must say that just having had lunch in the State Department for the first time, at least in this building, for the first time since I have been President, I was thinking of how many times I freeloaded around the world at various embassies abroad.
Secretary Rogers, I have probably visited more countries in the world than any public figure in America today, and I know what a burden it is to have a Congressman, a Senator, a prominent private citizen, a Vice President, a VIP, or a President to come visit you.
I can only say I have always been proud of those who represent America abroad in the Foreign Service, proud of your service to the Nation. We stand behind you all the way.
Thank you.
  