
    The Atlanta Journal and the Atlanta Constitution, the region's largest and most influential newspapers, today announced their support for Senate Majority Leader Bob Dole and urged their readers to vote for him in Georgia's important Tuesday primary. Following are excerpts from the endorsements:
Atlanta Constitution -- "Dole Best Choice for GOP"
"U.S. Senate Majority Leader from Kansas, Bob Dole... stands head and shoulders above the rest... Who among Dole's rivals can say he has devoted his adult life to serving his country, both as a distinguished soldier and a statesman? Certainly not Buchanan and Forbes, both of whom have spent most of their careers watching the national scene from their well-padded seats on the sideline. ... Dole is the only one of the four with the integrity not to offer voters panaceas for America's complex problems. ...
"The essential Bob Dole is a decent fellow who believes that politics is an honorable profession, that wisdom may not be exclusive to any one side and that bringing people and ideas together is essential to making democracy work in a country with as many diverse interests as America's." (3/1)
Atlanta Journal -- "Bob Dole Is the Best Man for GOP's Critical Mission"
"Every candidate in the Republican race for the Presidency has his recipe for what America needs. Only one of them has the leadership qualities and skills to produce what he promises, and we think that's the one Georgians ought to choose in next Tuesday's primary.
"Steve Forbes is essentially a one-issue candidate. Ask him about any problem facing the country -- heck, ask him about tooth decay -- and he'll insist that a flat tax will somehow solve it. ... Pat Buchanan, of course, has a definite prescription for America's woes. ... The problem is that his explanations for this turmoil, and his proposed remedies, are just factually wrong.
"Which leads us to the remaining major candidate, Senate Majority Leader Bob Dole. ...The most important thing he has to offer America -- the reason he is the man who must be the Republican nominee -- is embodied in that title in front of his name. After decades of Democratic control of Congress that foiled every attempt by Republican presidents to fix what's wrong with this country, we finally have a GOP majority that is trying to get the laws right. Bob Dole has been a key part of that process, and if we can get him into the White House, we can finish the 'revolution' that started in 1994.
"Character counts. So does experience. So does 44 years in public life, without personal scandal. The Republican Party needs someone who can pull its sometimes fractious factions together and make it an inclusive body, one that will attract a majority of mainstream voters in November. That, after all, is the ultimate goal, and the critical mission. We urge Georgians to choose Bob Dole next Tuesday so that goal can be achieved." (3/1)
Authorized and Paid for by Dole for President, Inc., Robert E.
Lighthizer, Treasurer
810 First Street, N.E. Suite 300
Washington, D.C 20002 (202) 414-6400
  