
    "[Romney] dominated in the areas he does best in, scoring high among voters who are most concerned about beating Barack Obama and who say the economy is their primary concern." —CBS News
The Associated Press: "Preliminary exit poll results showed Romney preferred by primary goers who said the economy was the top issue in the campaign, and overwhelmingly favored by those who said an ability to defeat Obama was the quality they most wanted in a nominee." (David Espo and Steve Peoples, "Romney Routs Santorum In GOP Primary In Illinois," The Associated Press, 3/20/12)


    "Among Those Who Said A Candidate's Experience Was The Most Important Factor, Romney Trounced His Opponents..." "Economy voters were a bit more likely to say they were seeking a candidate with the right experience, and that was another group Romney dominated. Among those who said a candidate's experience was the most important factor, Romney trounced his opponents, 64 percent to 15 percent for Newt Gingrich, 11 percent for Ron Paul and 8 percent for Santorum." (Jennifer Agiesta, "Romney Grows Edge Among High-Income Voters In Ill.," The Associated Press, 3/21/12)
  

The Washington Examiner: "Voters in Illinois, where the unemployment rate exceeds the national average, said in exit polls that the economy was their top concern and for that reason many of them sided with Romney, a former businessman, whom they saw as more focused on creating jobs than Santorum." (Steve Contorno, "Romney Dominates Santorum In Illinois Primary," The Washington Examiner, 3/20/12)
The Washington Post's Chris Cillizza: "Mitt Romney spent the week ... emphasizing his economic experience while hammering Rick Santorum as an 'economic lightweight.' Exit polling conducted in tonight's Illinois primary — where Romney is currently leading — suggest Romney's experience strategy worked."  (Chris Cillizza, "Mitt Romney's Experience Argument Is Working," The Washington Post, 3/20/12)
The Boston Globe: "Nearly 60 percent of Illinois residents casting ballots said the economy is the most important issue facing the country. Among those voters, Romney demolished Santorum, 49 percent to 32 percent." (Christopher Rowland, "Going Gets Tougher For Santorum As Focus Shifts North," Boston Globe, 3/21/12)
CBS News: "Romney improved his standing in other areas, too. When voters were asked who best understands the concerns of regular Americans, he won that group with 36 percent. He dominated in the areas he does best in, scoring high among voters who are most concerned about beating Barack Obama and who say the economy is their primary concern." (John Dickerson, "Mitt Romney Cleans Up In Illinois," CBS News, 3/21/12)
Los Angeles Times: "Almost six-tenths of the voters said the economy was their top issue and half of them chose Romney as their candidate. The former Massachusetts governor had kept his focus in Illinois on the economy, stressing his 25 years in business." (John Hoeffel, "Rick Santorum Pledges To 'Pull Up Government By The Roots'," Los Angeles Times, 3/20/12)
National Journal: "A majority of Illinois voters on Tuesday named the economy as their top concern, according to exit polls." (Beth Reinhard, "In Illinois Primary, Romney Finally Gets A Clean Hit," National Journal, 3/21/12)
NBC News: "Similarly, 58 percent of primary voters said the economy was their top issue, and Romney bested Santorum among those voters by a 17-point margin." (Michael O'Brien, "Romney Wins Illinois GOP Primary," NBC News, 3/20/12)
  