
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
March 15
In the evening, the President and Hillary Clinton returned to Washington, DC, from Camp David, MD.
March 16
In the morning, the President traveled to Silver Spring, MD, and in the afternoon, he returned to Washington, DC.
In an evening ceremony in the Oval Office, the President received diplomatic credentials from Ambassadors Petrit Bushati of Albania, Bruno Nongoma Zidouemba of Burkina Faso, Samson K. Chemai of Kenya, Marcelo Perez Monasterios of Bolivia, Michael Arneaud of Trinidad and Tobago, Rachel Gbenyon Diggs of Liberia, Jon Baldvin Hannibalsson of Iceland, Eloy Alfaro de Alba of Panama, Dorodjatun Kuntjoro-Jakti of Indonesia, Nicholas J.O. Liverpool of Dominica, Li Zhaoxing of China, and Claude Sylvestre Anthony Morel of Seychelles.
Later, the President met with Gerry Adams and Martin McGuinness of Sinn Fein in the Oval Office.
The President announced his intention to appoint Curtis A. Prins to serve as a member of the Board of Trustees of the Christopher Columbus Fellowship Foundation.
March 17
In the afternoon, the President attended a St. Patrick's Day luncheon in the Rayburn House Office Building on Capitol Hill.
In the evening, the President held separate meetings in the Oval Office with the leadership of four Irish political parties: David Trimble and John Taylor of the Ulster Unionist Party; John Hume and Seamus Mallon of the Social Democratic and Labor Party; Gary McMichael and David Adams of the Ulster Democratic Party; and Lord John Alderdice and Niall Johnston of the Alliance Party.
March 18
In the morning, the President traveled to Las Vegas, NV. In the evening, he returned to Washington, DC, arriving after midnight.
The President announced his intention to appoint Ruth Mandel as Vice Chair of the U.S. Holocaust Memorial Council.
The White House announced that the President invited Prime Minister Romano Prodi of Italy for an official visit to the United States, May 5-8.
March 19
In the afternoon, the President met with King Hussein I of Jordan in the Oval Office.
The President announced his intention to appoint Steven Pennoyer as U.S. Commissioner of the International Pacific Halibut Commission.
The President announced his intention to appoint James Pipkin as U.S. Federal Commissioner of the Pacific Salmon Commission.
March 20
The President declared a major disaster in the Republic of the Marshall Islands and ordered Federal aid to supplement recovery efforts in the area struck by severe drought beginning January 17.
The White House announced that the President will attend the 23d annual meeting of the heads of state of the world's leading industrialized democracies in Birmingham, United Kingdom, May 15-17, and the semiannual U.S.-European Union summit on May 18 in London. The President will visit Germany prior to his visit to the United Kingdom.
  