
    Pool Reports by Daniel Bush, Newsweek 



Sent:
Reports:




March 23, 2023 09:25

In-town pool report #1 - brunch lid
A brunch lid has been called until 12:30 p.m.
The president has one public item on his schedule today, an anniversary event for the Affordable Care Act at 1 p.m.


March 23, 2023 12:52

In-town pool report #2 -- gathered for ACA event
The pool is gathered for President Biden's event marking the anniversary of the Affordable Care Act. 


March 23, 2023 13:07

In-town pool report #3 -- event underway
President Biden entered the East Room at 1:04 p.m.
Some 200-plus people are in attendance, and gave POTUS a lengthy standing ovation.
Your pooler spotted HHS Sec. Becerra seated in the front row, along with Nancy Pelosi and other Democratic members of Congress.
The event is being livestreamed by the White House. Watch it here: https://www.whitehouse.gov/live/ 


March 23, 2023 13:15

In-town pool report #4: Note on attendees
From the White House:
In attendance for the President's remarks at the Affordable Care Act Anniversary Event:
Secretary Xavier Becerra, Department of Health and Human Services Senator Ron Wyden (OR) Senator Jeff Merkley (OR) Senator Martin Heinrich (NM) Senator John Hickenlooper (CO) Speaker Emerita Nancy Pelosi (CA-11) Rep. Richard Neal (MA-01) Rep. Sheila Jackson Lee (TX-18) Rep. Jimmy Gomez (CA-34) Rep. Vicente Gonzalez (TX-34) Rep. Lizzie Fletcher (TX-07) Rep. Sylvia Garcia (TX-29) Rep. Mike Levin (CA-49) Rep. Lori Trahan (MA-03) Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (NY-14) Rep. Elissa Slotkin (MI-07) Rep. Lauren Underwood (IL-14) Rep. Eric Sorensen (IL-17) ACA and Medicaid enrollees, health care industry and advocates, former Obama-Biden Administration staff, community leaders, and White House staff.
Speaking Program
Teresa Acosta, Introducer and a single mother to a son with Type 1 diabetes who enrolled in ACA coverage in 2020 The President
Background on Introducer Teresa Acosta is a first-generation, Cuban-American from Dunwoody, Georgia. Teresa is a single mom to three school-aged children, including her type 1 diabetic son, Bauer. In 2020, after Teresa lost her job as Outreach Manager at the Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation?a nonprofit funder of type 1 diabetes research?because of the pandemic, she was able to get health insurance through an ACA marketplace health plan. The ACA has ensured that Teresa can afford health insurance. Her son Bauer is currently covered by Medicaid but will likely need to switch to an ACA plan later this year, something which would not have been possible absent the ACA because of his pre-existing conditions. Additionally, the increased ACA premium subsidies and the American Rescue Plan Child Tax Credit gave her the breathing room she needed to launch her own restaurant and catering business during the pandemic.
Teresa has two sons, Andie (16) and Bauer (13), and a daughter, Blaise (15). 


March 23, 2023 13:38

In-town pool report #5 -- remarks over
President Biden concluded his remarks on the Affordable Care Act at TKTK.
A few highlights (check against transcript):
Biden said he spoke with former President Obama ahead of the ACA anniversary, and credited Obama and former House Speaker Pelosi for securing passage of the health care law.
The president touted the steps he's taken in office to strengthen the ACA. He noted that Republicans have opposed his efforts and said today's GOP "ain't your grandfather's" Republican Party.
Biden said his recently proposed budget was a contrast with "MAGA Republicans" in Congress who don't have a health care plan.
The president's remarks were interrupted periodically by a baby's cries. Your pooler saw one baby in the second row but can't confirm if that's the one who caused the fuss.
"That's all right we like babies," Biden said after one interruption, drawing laughter and applause. He added, "Matter of fact I like babies better than people.
Biden wrapped his remarks by saying the Obama administration "made history" with the ACA and took "a giant step" towards acknowledging that "health care is a right" in the U.S.
Biden finished speaking at 1:30 p.m. He took a few moments to shake hands with supporters before leaving the East Room at 1:33 p.m. The press was at the opposite end of the room, way too far away to shout questions. 


March 23, 2023 13:41

Correction to pool report #5
Biden concluded his remarks at 1:33 p.m., as noted at the end of the report, not at "TKTK." 


March 23, 2023 14:01

In-town pool report #6 -- lunch lid
The White House called a "lunch lid" until 4 p.m.


March 23, 2023 16:35

In-town pool report #7 — awaiting departure
Pool is gathered now for Biden's departure from the South Lawn. It's scheduled for 4:40 p.m. 


March 23, 2023 16:48

In-town pool report #8 — M1 liftoff
President Biden exited the White House at 4:37 p.m. and stopped to greet supporters gathered on the South Lawn.
First Lady Jill Biden emerged a moment later and joined him on the rope line.
At 4:43 p.m. the Bidens walked across the South Lawn and boarded Marine One. Biden waved at the press but did not come over to take questions.
M1 lifted off at 4:47 p.m.
Handing off to the travel pool. 


March 23, 2023 17:17

In-town pool report #9 — M1 note
From the White House:
Traveling with the President and the First Lady aboard Marine One en route to Joint Base Andrews:
Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs Jen O'Malley Dillon, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff Anthony Bernal, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the First Lady 


March 23, 202318:11

In-town pool report #10 — AF1 gaggle
Per the White House, the press gaggle aboard AF1 started at 6:05 p.m. 




Pool Reports below by Emily Goodin, Daily Mail 



Sent:
Reports:




March 23, 2023 17:05

WH travel pool #1 - Ottawa departure
Marine One was wheels down at JBA at 4:57 pm.
POTUS and FLOTUS walked over to Air Force One with the greeters. They boarded at 5:01 pm with a wave at the top. POTUS did not come over to the pool to take questions.
Next stop: Ottawa International Airport
Flight time: One hour 25 minutes
Air Force One is wheels up shortly.
From White House:
Greeting the President and the First Lady upon arrival at Joint Base Andrews:
Colonel William "Chris" McDonald Mrs. Diana McDonald
Traveling with the President and the First Lady aboard Air Force One en route to Ottawa International Airport:
Secretary Antony Blinken, Department of State Secretary Jennifer Granholm, Department of Energy  Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs Jen O'Malley Dillon, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations Anthony Bernal, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the First Lady Liz Sherwood-Randall, Assistant to the President & Homeland Security Advisor & Deputy NSA Karine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press Secretary Ben LaBolt, Assistant to the President & Director of Communications Lael Brainard, Assistant to the President & Director of the National Economic Council Ambassador Rufus Gifford, Chief of Protocol Curtis Ried, Deputy Assistant to the President & NSC Chief of Staff & Executive Secretary Ashley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office Operations Travis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director  Jordan Montoya, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the First Lady Carlyn Reichel, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for Speechwriting & Strategic Initiatives Vanessa Valdivia, Special Assistant to the President & Press Secretary for the First Lady John Kirby, National Security Council Coordinator for Strategic Communications 


March 23, 2023 18:29

WH travel pool #2 - wheels down Ottawa
Air Force One was wheels up JBA at 5:11 pm and wheels down Ottawa at 6:19 pm (note we remain on Eastern time).
Not sure if it came through at the top of the gaggle but National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan was in with POTUS and that is why he didn't join Karine Jean-Pierre in the gaggle.
Snow is visible outside as Air Force One taxis on the runway.
More tk.... 


March 23, 2023 18:47

WH travel pool #3 - Ottawa greet
POTUS and FLOTUS disembarked from Air Force One at 6:34 pm.
POTUS is wearing a suit and overcoat. FLOTUS is wearing a periwinkle blue coat and heels.
There is a long row of official greeters (see list below) with four Canadian Mounties interspersed between them. The Beast has an American and Canadian flag on it.
POTUS and FLOTUS walked down the line shanking hands and chatting with the officials. Sec/State Blinken and Energy Sec Granholm also walked down the line - behind POTUS and FLOTUS - greeting officials
It is 38 degrees and overcast. At 6:41 pm Bidens are heading into the airport for the greet with H.E. T.R.H. Mary Simon, Governor General of Canada and H.E. Whit Fraser.
More tk..
From the WH:
Greeting the President and the First Lady upon arrival at Ottawa International Airport:
Mr. Stewart Wheeler, Chief of Protocol of Canada Her Excellency the Right Honorable Mary Simon, Governor General of Canada His Excellency Whit Fraser, Spouse of the Governor General of Canada The Honorable Chrystia Freeland, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance The Honorable Mélanie Joly, Minister of Foreign Affairs The Honorable Mona Fortier, President of the Treasury Board  The Honorable Robert Oliphant, Parliamentary Secretary to the Minister of Foreign Affairs  Mr. Maninder Sidhu, Parliamentary Secretary to the Minister of Foreign Affairs Her Excellency Kirsten Hillman, Ambassador of Canada to the United States  The Honorable David L. Cohen, Ambassador of the United States to Canada  Mrs. Rhonda Cohen, Spouse of the Ambassador of the United States to Canada 


March 23, 2023 18:51

WH travel pool #4 - Meeting with Simon and Fraser
Pool was taken into a meeting room at the airport where POTUS and FLOTUS were seated with Mary Simon and H.E. Whit Fraser.
Each person was in their own chair - Americans on one side and Canadians on the other. POTUS was saying something about forest fires but pool could not make out much more. Pool was only in the room a couple of minutes.
Pool now holding as meeting continues.
From WH:
Participating in a greet with the President and the First Lady upon arrival at the Billy Bishop Lounge, Canada Reception Center:
Her Excellency the Right Honorable Mary Simon, Governor General of Canada His Excellency Whit Fraser, Spouse of the Governor General of Canada 


March 23, 2023 19:10

WH travel pool #5 - Rolling from airport
Motorcade is rolling from Ottawa International Airport at 7:08 pm.
Pool caught a brief glimpse of POTUS and FLOTUS walking to the Beast.
Next stop: RON
Drive time: about 25 minutes 


March 23, 2023 19:36

WH travel pool #6 - RON arrival
Motorcade arrived at RON at 7:33 pm. No POTUS or FLOTUS sighting.
Pool is holding here until the Bidens head out for their dinner with the Trudeaus.
Ride was uneventful but very foggy. There were pockets of people along the route watching and filming as the motorcade went by. 


March 23, 2023 20:21

WH travel pool #7 - departing the RON
Motorcade left the RON at 8:20 pm.
Pool did not catch a glimpse of POTUS or FLOTUS. They did a meet and greet with Embassy staff while pool held.
Bidens are now headed to a private gathering with Prime Minister Justin Trudeau and Sophie Grégoire Trudeau.
There were a few protesters outside the RON - like less than 10 - and pool couldn't make out what they were shouting.
Destination: Prime Minister's residence
Drive time: about 10 minutes
From the WH:
The President and the First Lady are participating in a greet with U.S. Embassy staff:
Secretary Antony Blinken, Department of State The Honorable David L. Cohen, Ambassador of the United States to Canada  U.S. Embassy Staff and their families 


March 23, 2023 20:37

WH travel pool #8 - Arrival at prime minister's
Motorcade arrived at Trudeaus at 8:28 pm.
Pool positioned in front of residence to watch PM Trudeau and Mrs. Trudeau come out. The Bidens came out of the Beast. The couples exchanged handshakes and hugs. POTUS kissed Mrs. Trudeau on the check. PM kissed FLOTUS on the cheek.
The two couples - led by the ladies - walked up a short set of stairs to pose on the front porch. POTUS didn't answer a shouted question about where there was a deal on the northern border.
Two couples went inside.
Pool is now holding.
From WH:
Greeting the President and the First Lady at the Rideau Cottage:
Prime Minister Justin Trudeau of Canada Mrs. Sophie Grégoire Trudeau, Wife of Prime Minister Trudeau
Traveling with the President and the First Lady via motorcade en route to the Rideau Cottage:
Anthony Bernal, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the First Lady Curtis Ried, Deputy Assistant to the President & NSC Chief of Staff & Executive Secretary Ashley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office Operations Travis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director  Jordan Montoya, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the First Lady Vanessa Valdivia, Special Assistant to the President & Press Secretary for the First Lady 


March 23, 2023 21:33

WH travel pool #9 - departing prime minister's
Motorcade departed Rideau Cottage at 9:32 pm.
Pool didn't see POTUS or FLOTUS.
We are rolling back to the RON.
From the WH:
The President and the First Lady are participating in a private gathering with Prime Minister Trudeau, Mrs. Sophia Grégoire Trudeau, and their family. 


March 23, 2023 21:40

WH travel pool #10 - arrival at RON and lid
Motorcade arrived at the RON at 9:38 pm.
Pool didn't see POTUS or FLOTUS.
At 9:39 pm we have a travel photo lid. Have a good rest of your night. 



  