
    New independent poll cites Governor Richardson as a strong leader on issue of global warming
Governor Bill Richardson has signed two bills that enact major cornerstones of his clean energy agenda and make New Mexico one of the top two states for renewable energy requirements. The first law requires New Mexico utilities to produce 15% of their energy from renewable sources, such as wind, solar, or biomass, by 2015 and 20% by 2020. The second law creates a Renewable Energy Transmission Authority to develop clean energy resources and market them to other states.
"In the absence of federal leadership, I feel a real sense of urgency to take action at the state level to fight global warming and strengthen our energy security," said Governor Richardson. "Ramping up our use of renewable energy and reducing carbon-based emissions is the first step. These strategies also help to protect the environment, create high-tech, high-wage jobs and grow our economy."
The results of a new poll, conducted in New Mexico on behalf of the National Environmental Trust by Research & Polling, Inc.*, show a majority of respondents- 57% - say Governor Richardson is a strong leader on the issue of global warming. Governor Richardson is the only person perceived as a strong leader on this critically important issue by a majority of poll respondents.
59% of those polled believe global warming is a serious problem, and a large majority believes the new Democrat controlled US Congress should take the lead in addressing global warming, renewable energy, and environmental protection. In the absence of federal leadership on this issue, Governor Richardson has taken aggressive action to make New Mexico a leader in reducing carbon-based emissions and increasing the use of renewable energy.
In 2004 Governor Richardson signed New Mexico's first Renewable Portfolio Standard into law. This mandated that 5% of New Mexico's electricity come from renewable sources by 2006, increasing to 10% by 2011. The Governor's initiative that he signed into law this week dramatically increases these requirements and continues New Mexico's leadership in the area of renewable energy and the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions.
In the past few weeks alone Governor Richardson has signed a major, five state climate change agreement, announced a new Tesla electric car plant for Albuquerque, and a biodiesel plant in Clovis, NM.
*The study was conducted for the National Environmental Trust (www.NET.org) by Research & Polling, Inc., in a random sample of 400 voters statewide interviewed by telephone between January 26 and February 1, 2007. The maximum margin of error for the poll is plus or minus 4.9%.
  