
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
March 21
In the evening, the President and Hillary Clinton attended the annual Gridiron Club dinner in the Continental Room at the Capital Hilton.
March 22
In the evening, the President and Hillary Clinton traveled to Accra, Ghana, arriving the next morning.
March 23
In the morning, the President met with President Jerry John Rawlings of Ghana in the Credentials Room at Osu Castle.
In the afternoon, the President and Hillary Clinton attended a luncheon with President Rawlings and his wife, Nana Konadu Rawlings, in the Dining Room at Osu Castle.
In the early evening, the President and Hillary Clinton traveled to Entebbe and Kampala, Uganda, arriving after midnight. While en route to Entebbe aboard Air Force One, the President had a telephone conversation with President Charles Taylor of Liberia concerning local Liberian and regional issues.
The White House announced that the President will travel to China in late June and early July at the invitation of President Jiang Zemin.
March 24
In the afternoon, the President and Hillary Clinton traveled to Mukono and Wanyange, Uganda, and in the evening, they returned to Kampala.
The President announced his intention to nominate William Joseph Burns to be Ambassador to Jordan.
March 25
In the morning, the President and Hillary Clinton traveled to Kigali, Rwanda, and in the afternoon, they returned to Entebbe, Uganda.
In the evening, the President and Hillary Clinton traveled to Cape Town, South Africa, arriving after midnight.
March 26
The President announced that he will host the first national summit on retirement income savings on June 4-5.
The White House announced that President Fidel Ramos of the Philippines will visit Washington, DC, on April 8-10.
March 27
In the afternoon, the President and Hillary Clinton traveled to Robben Island and later returned to Cape Town.
In the evening, they attended a dinner hosted by President Nelson Mandela of South Africa at Vergelegen Wine Estates.
  