
    Pool Reports by Nolan D. McCaskill, Los Angeles Times 



Sent:
Reports:




March 5, 202211:29

Travel pool report #1 — Motorcade rolling
Good morning from Wilmington, which is hosting the Atlantic 10 women's college basketball championship tournament.
It's a sunny, breezy 43° out.
The pool was tested for COVID-19 this morning and had our bags and equipment swept.
We're now joining the motorcade, which began departing the president's residence at 11:24 a.m.
Our destination, per White House guidance, is Hotel du Pont.



March 5, 202211:52

Travel pool report #2 — Hotel du Pont arrival
The motorcade arrived at Hotel du Pont at 11:37 a.m.
President Biden and Labor Secretary Marty Walsh are attending the Labor Unity Roundtable, hosted by the AFL-CIO.
The event, however, is closed press, so the pool is holding in a food hall.
The White House passes along the following attendees from the administration:
The PresidentSecretary Marty Walsh, US Department of LaborMike Donilon, Senior AdvisorCedric Richmond, Director of the Office of Public Engagement
And union leaders in attendance, per the White House:
William "Willie" Adams, President, International Longshoremen Workers Union (ILWU)Stuart Appelbaum, President, Retail Warehouse Department Store Union (RWDSU)James Callahan, President, International Union of Operating Engineers (IUOE)Gabrielle Carteris, President, Stage Actors Guild-American Federation of Television and Radio Artists (SAG-AFTRA)Bonnie Castillo, Executive Director, National Nurses Union (NNU)John Costa, President, Amalgamated Transit Union (ATU)Ray Curry, President, United Auto Workers (UAW)Eric Dean, President, Ironworkers (IW)Captain Joe DePete, President, Airline Pilots Association (ALPA)Tim Driscoll, President, Bricklayers (BAC)James Hart, President, Metal Trades UnionJimmy Hoffa, President, Teamsters (IBT)Jerome Lafragola, Secretary-Treasurer, Transportation Workers Union (TWU)Richard Lanigan, President, Office and Professional Employees (OPEIU)Everett Kelley, President, American Federal and Government Employees (AFGE)Ed Kelly, President, International Association of Fire Fighters (IAFF)Donald Marcus, President, Masters, Mates, and Pilots (MM&P)Robert Martinez, President, Machinists Union (IAM)Sean McGarvey, President, North American Building Trades Unions (NABTU)Gwen Mills, Secretary Treasurer, Unite HERESara Nelson, President, Association of Flight Attendants-CWA (AFA)Greg Regan, President, Transpiration Trades Department (TTD)Teresa Romero, President, United Farm Workers (UFW)Richard Santa, President, National Air Traffic Controllers (NACTA)Joe Sellers, President, Sheetmetal (SMART)Anthony Shelton, President, Bakery, Confectionery, and Tobacco Workers (BCTGM)Chris Shelton, President, Communications Workers of America (CWA)Liz Shuler, President, American Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations (AFL-CIO)James Slevin, President, Utility Workers (UE)Lonnie Stephenson, President, Electrical Workers (IBEW)Robert Suplee, President, International Plate Printers, Die Stampers and Engravers UnionAugie Tellez, Secretary Treasurer, Seafarers International Union (SIU)Jimmy Williams Jr., President, Painters and Allies Trades (IUPAT)Fred Redmond, Secretary Treasurer, American Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations (AFL-CIO)Roland Rexha, President, Marine Engineers Beneficial Association (MEBA)Fred Rolando, President, National Association of Letter Carriers (NALC)Randi Weingarten, President, American Federation of Teachers (AFT)



March 5, 202214:25

Travel pool report #3 — Leaving Hotel du Pont
The pool has rejoined the motorcade, which began rolling from Hotel du Pont at 2:21 p.m.



March 5, 202214:43

Travel pool report #4 — Back at residence
The motorcade dropped President Biden off at his residence at 2:34 p.m.



March 5, 202217:06

Travel pool report #5 — Motorcade rolling again
The motorcade began rolling from the president's residence at 5:03 p.m.



March 5, 202217:12

Travel pool report #6 — Church
The motorcade arrived at St. Joseph on the Brandywine Roman Catholic Church at 5:09 p.m.
The pool is holding in a bus nearby.



March 5, 202218:00

Travel pool report #7 — Leaving church
President Biden left the church at 5:50 p.m. and spent a few minutes engaging with parishioners outside.
The White House adds that the following family members attended the service with him today:
Ron OlivereHallie BidenNatalie BidenMissy Owens
The motorcade is now rolling again.



March 5, 202218:03

Travel pool report #8 — Return to residence/lid
The president returned to his residence at 6 p.m., and the White House called a lid.
Have a good night.



March 5, 202219:15

Travel pool report #9 — Zelenskyy call
President Biden called President Zelenskyy of Ukraine this evening. Per the White House, they spoke from 1818 – 1850 EST.




  