
    "There is a humanitarian and security crisis on our southern border that requires urgent action." --President Donald J. Trump
WORSENING SITUATION AT THE BORDER: New numbers released by the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) reflect an ever-worsening crisis on our southern border.

New data from DHS shows that more than 76,000 inadmissible aliens arrived at the southern border in February.
An average of more than 2,000 aliens cross illegally every day at the southern border.

Border Patrol has apprehended over 268,000 individuals crossing since the beginning of the fiscal year (FY), a 97 percent increase over the same period in the previous year.


Our Nation is experiencing an unprecedented spike in the number of alien families arriving at the southern border, with more than 40,000 arriving in February alone.

In this FY to date, there has been a more than 300 percent increase in the number of family units apprehended compared to the same time period last FY.


Apprehensions of family unit aliens and Unaccompanied Alien Children (UAC) this FY have surged 338 percent and 54 percent, respectively.
There has been a wave of large migrant groups flooding to the southern border.

Seventy large groups of 100 or more individuals have attempted to cross the border so far this FY, compared with only 13 the previous year.


Many of the migrants arriving at our southern border are requiring medical assistance, further straining resources and personnel on the ground.

Customs and Border Protection is executing a new directive to expand existing medical service contracts and deploy additional medical personnel to the border.



UNDENIABLE EMERGENCY: We are facing an undeniable humanitarian and national security crisis at our border that constitutes a national emergency.

Many migrants who make the trek through Central America and Mexico encounter horrifying violence, including sexual assault.

One-third of women are sexually abused along the journey to the border, according to a report by Doctors Without Borders.


Dangerous criminals have exploited our porous borders to gain entry into the country.

In the last two years alone, Immigration and Customs Enforcement has made 266,000 arrests of illegal immigrants with criminal records – many charged with violent crimes.


Deadly drugs continue to pour across our border and into our communities, including the vast majority of cocaine and heroin consumed in America.

More than 70,000 American lives were lost to drug overdoses in 2017.



TAKING URGENT ACTION: President Donald J. Trump is taking urgent action to address the crisis we are facing and uphold his duty to ensure the safety of our Nation.

The President has taken action to address this crisis and build barriers desperately needed at our border, including declaring a national emergency.
Nearly $8.1 billion has been identified to build border barriers, including funds appropriated by Congress, funds available under other statutory authorities, and military construction funds available in a national emergency.
President Trump deployed the military to assist our heavily strained border personnel.

More than 6,000 troops have been deployed at the border.



  