
    Mr. Ambassador, Mr. Minister, and all of our very good friends who have been so kind to come out here to see Mrs. Nixon off on her journey to Caracas and then to Brasilia:
Let me say, first of all, that as she leaves on this journey, that it will be not only in an official capacity--she will extend, of course, congratulations and best wishes to President Perez of Venezuela and President Geisel of Brazil--but she will do something she has done on all of her travels around the world--she has traveled more than any First Lady in history--she will bring the best wishes of the American people to the people of all the countries she visits. And that is, of course, what we want them to hear.
And we think it is particularly appropriate that she is taking off here from Florida, because Florida is a State which knows so well the tremendous contribution that has been made to this State and this Nation by those of Latin background.
And going from Florida, first to Venezuela and then to Brazil, she will be able to see there those nations that are our closest neighbors and our closest friends. And I should emphasize that in these times when so much emphasis has been placed upon, as it should be, the new relations with the People's Republic of China and the Soviet Union, with our relations with the great countries of Europe, that we must always remember that here in this Western Hemisphere, our closest friends and neighbors are the people in Latin America and in the Western Hemisphere, and that trip will bring that to the attention, we think, of the whole world.
And so with that, I will now turn the platform podium over to Mrs. Nixon. She says she doesn't like to make speeches, but I do know that the reporters who have accompanied her when she traveled alone to Peru and also to Africa over the past 2 years have said that she is the best ambassador the United States has. I proudly present her to you.
MRS. NIXON. Thank you.
I am so pleased that you are here to send me off in this manner. I enjoyed the high school band, Killian High School band, and all of these Scouts and schoolchildren who are out, and the oldsters who could get away from their jobs today.
I do want to say that I shall certainly, in just 3 hours and 40 minutes, be giving your best wishes and your affection to the people of Venezuela, my first stop, and then later, on the 15th, to the people of Brazil.
I look forward to seeing you, when I can return home, and bringing you greetings from our good friends.
  