
    HOUSTON, Texas - The Cruz for President campaign announced the endorsement of Congressman Matt Salmon from Arizona. Salmon represents Arizona's Fifth Congressional District. Prior to serving in Congress, Salmon was elected to the Arizona State Senate, where he served from 1991 until 1995.  During this time, he served as Assistant Majority Leader and Chairman of the Rules Committee. He was first elected to the U.S. House of Representatives 1994, where he served three terms. In 2012 and 2014, Arizonans reelected him to serve in the U.S. House of Representatives. He also served chairman of the Arizona Republican Party. Salmon is one of the strongest conservative leaders in Congress. He co-founded the House Freedom Caucus in 2015. Salmon is the fourth member of the Arizona delegation supporting Ted Cruz for President, joining Representatives Gosar, Franks, and Schweikert.
"The 2016 election will be one of the most important of our time," said Rep. Salmon. "The future of our country, our security, and our way of life hang in the balance. We need a president that understands the myriad of global security challenges we face from ISIS to Iranian aggression to Russian and Chinese expansionism. Our next president must recognize, embrace, and empower the many Americans who have been left behind while the Obama Administration focused on growing government by sacrificing the middle class. Our next president must be a warrior for smaller government, more freedom, opportunity for all Americans, and a conviction that life, no matter how nascent, must be protected and celebrated. Ted Cruz is such a warrior. He will fight to keep the American Dream alive, grow our economy for all Americans, and keep us safe here at home. I am proud to endorse him for President of the United States."
"Matt is a strong, principled conservative," said Cruz. "He has consistently fought for issues that are of the utmost importance to conservatives. He has stood up against Washington's burdensome regulations, fought to repeal Obamacare, and protect our First Amendment liberties. He has spent his career fighting for the people of Arizona and all Americans. I am thrilled to have his support and look forward to having his help coalescing conservatives around our campaign."
  