
    Joining a flurry of Virginia leaders announcing their support for Joe Biden ahead of Super Tuesday is Virginia Congresswoman Jennifer Wexton who released the following statement endorsing Biden for President of United States:
"Donald Trump, through his corrosive rhetoric and destructive policies, threatens to fundamentally change who we are as a nation. Whether it's his ongoing efforts to rip health care away from millions, his refusal to address the crisis of gun violence, or his relentless attacks on federal workers and our intelligence community—we're in a battle for the soul of America.
"We need a leader who will bring us together, unite us as one country, and restore the promise of America—I know that Joe Biden is that leader. Vice President Biden has dedicated his life to public service. He has the vision and experience to deliver results on the issues that matter most to Virginians, including his commitment to strengthen and rebuild the federal workforce.
"Throughout this campaign, Joe has proven that he is the steady, empathetic leader we need to unite our party and our country. I will proudly be casting my vote for Joe Biden this Tuesday."
Earlier this week, Congresswoman Wexton published an open letter to the Democratic presidential candidates highlighting the importance of attracting the best and brightest into public service following Donald Trump's presidency. Biden's campaign responded with a letter sharing Wexton's concerns and outlining how his administration would restore the federal workforce.
Congresswoman Jennifer Wexton represents Virginia's 10th Congressional District, which, prior to her more than 12% victory in 2018, had been held by Republicans for 38 years. In Congress, Wexton has made lowering the cost of healthcare a priority, been a fierce champion for federal workers, been a leading voice for gun violence prevention, and has distinguished herself as an unflinching advocate for the LGBTQ community.
Congresswoman Wexton joins Congressman Bobby Scott and former Virginia Governor Terry McAuliffe in endorsing Biden after his decisive victory in South Carolina. Other Virginia leaders who recently endorsed Biden include Senator Tim Kaine, Congressman Donald McEachin, Congresswoman Elaine Luria, Richmond Mayor Levar Stoney, Roanoke Mayor Sherman Lea, Virginia State Senate Majority Leader Dick Saslaw, and other state legislators and local leaders. Biden leads the Democratic field in congressional endorsements with Wexton becoming the 48th Member of Congress to support him.
In total, Biden for President has previously announced more than 1,400 endorsements from national, state, and local leaders, including current and former U.S. senators and representatives, governors, state elected officials, community leaders, and national security professionals.
  