
    Mr. Prime Minister, Mrs. Erim, and our distinguished guests from Turkey and from the United States:
A few moments ago we heard the strains of "Around the World in 80 Days," and as we heard that song, I was reminded of how really small the world is and has become, and how fast events move. Exactly one month ago tonight, Mrs. Nixon, the Secretary of State, and I arrived in Peking and we were being received at a banquet in the Great Hall of the People by the Premier of the People's Republic of China.
Tonight, here in the White House, we honor the Prime Minister of Turkey.
In these two events, just one month apart, we see something which is very important for us always to remember, and that is that while a nation must always seek, as we seek, to have better relations with those who have been our adversaries, that we must never forget our friends, and tonight we honor true friends in honoring the Prime Minister, his wife, and our friends from Turkey.
Mr. Prime Minister, that friendship goes back, as you and I recalled in our discussions today, many years. I am reminded of the fact that this is also the month, 25 years ago, when, as a freshman Member of the Congress, along with one of our distinguished guests from the Congress, Senator Bentsen, he a Democrat, I a Republican, both voted for the Truman Doctrine--the Truman Doctrine for aid to Greece and Turkey. We voted for it, crossing party lines, because we knew what was involved was far more important than party; it involved the freedom that allows any parties to exist. And as we think back over those 25 years, we are grateful for the friendship that we have enjoyed, the alliance that we have had with Turkey through those years.
We realize that Turkey is a nation and a people which has had a long and proud history, and we realize that you, Mr. Prime Minister, are developing the programs that will build an even greater future.
But what is important is that you are attempting to build that future, despite great pressures that might be applied upon you, in the paths of independence and freedom, rather than succumbing to the great influences of dictatorship and oppression.
As I looked over the Prime Minister's background, I find that he and I have much in common. We were born in the same year, 191 3. We both studied the law and were relatively successful in that field. And as political men, we both have lost elections as well as won some.
But although we were born over 4,000 miles apart, in countries very different in background, we have something very much in common, as we knew from knowing each other's records and as we had firmly embedded in our minds by our conversations today. We are devoted to the same ideals.' We are devoted to peace in the world; we are devoted to the independence of nations; we are devoted to a system of government which provides a freedom of choice, a parliamentary system in your country and the system of government which we have here in the United States.
And it is these common ideals, even more important than the common interest that we have, that bring us together and that make us the close friends that we are. We are proud of the friendship that we have had with Turkey going back over those 25 years, and we know that the visit of the Prime Minister to our country, the talks that he will have at all levels with people in our Government, will contribute to a continuing close relationship, a relationship which is not based simply on the signing of a piece of paper, a treaty, whether it is in NATO or bilateral, but a relationship which is much deeper than that--a relationship based on Ideals that are immortal, ideals that we both believe in, that we both share, that we want for our own people in each country and for other people where they might have that opportunity, as well.
And so it is in that spirit that I know that everybody here, people who come from all over the United States as well as our friends from Turkey, people of both political parties in our country, of all walks of life, will want to join me in the toast that I will propose.
It will be, of course, to a continued friendship between our two peoples, to the progress and the prosperity of the people of Turkey, and particularly to the one who provides the progressive, enlightened, strong leadership in Turkey that all the world admires today, the Prime Minister of Turkey.
  