
    Kaptur, dean of Ohio's congressional delegation and longest-serving woman in U.S. House of Representatives' history, endorsed Sanders in 2016 primary
Today, Ohio Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur released the following statement endorsing Joe Biden for the President of the United States:
"Vice President Biden is a family man, a man of character, and an honorable public servant -- and I am proud to endorse him for President of the United States. On a personal level, despite enduring more tragedy than any of us should have to experience, Joe Biden chose to continue his public service and has fought for every family as if they were his own.
"Biden fought tirelessly for the survival of our industrial Heartland. He was the driving force behind the rescue of the American auto industry. Without Joe's consequential leadership, Ohio and the Midwest may never have recovered.
"On the international stage, our nation needs a President who can lead the free world. We need a President who will stand up to dictators and work with our allies. That's Joe Biden.
"So today, I'm endorsing Joe Biden, a man who tells the truth and provides the stark, healing contrast we desperately need after four corrosive years of Donald Trump. I know that with Joe Biden, we'll beat Trump in November and with his experience, wisdom, and compassion, begin to set this ship right again."
Kaptur, who serves as the dean of Ohio's congressional delegation and is also the longest-serving woman in the history of the U.S. House of Representatives, endorsed Bernie Sanders in the 2016 primary.
Kaptur's endorsement builds on the endorsements of nearly 70 current and former elected officials and community leaders from across Ohio, including Congressman Tim Ryan, Congresswoman Marcia Fudge, former Ohio Governor Ted Strickland, former CFPB Director Richard Cordray, former Congressman Edward Feighan, Columbus City Attorney Zach Klein, former Columbus City Councilmember Mary Jo Hudson, State Senator Herceal Craig, Columbus Mayor Andrew Ginther, Cincinnati Mayor John Cranley, and Youngstown Mayor Tito Brown.
Nationally, Biden for President has previously announced more than 2,100 endorsements from national, state, and local leaders, including current and former U.S. senators and representatives, governors, state elected officials, community leaders, and national security professionals.
  