
    To the House of Representatives:
I am returning herewith without my approval H.R. 4210, the "Tax Fairness and Economic Growth Acceleration Act of 1992." In my State of the Union Message, I proposed a responsible, balanced economic growth program. I challenged the Congress to pass incentives for growth by March 20. The Congress failed to meet that challenge. The Congress' response, H.R. 4210, is a formula for economic stagnation, not economic expansion.
My Administration's economic growth program would create jobs, generate long-term economic growth, and promote health, education, savings, and home ownership. My plan would encourage investment and enhance real estate values -- without tax increases.
Tax increases would undermine the emerging recovery and act as a barrier to long-term growth. I call on the Congress to pass the seven commonsense measures that I asked for by this date, without tax increases, and to join me in pursuing a long-term agenda for growth.
I am disappointed that after 52 days the Congress has produced partisan, flawed legislation. Rather than work in a constructive manner to strengthen the economy and to create jobs, congressional leaders chose the path of partisanship. H.R. 4210 would jeopardize the recovery. It would not create jobs. It would not create incentives for long-term investment and growth, it does not contain a tax credit for first-time homebuyers, and it contains wholly inappropriate special interest provisions.
H.R. 4210 would increase taxes by more than $100 billion. More than two-thirds of all taxpayers facing tax increases as a result of this bill would be owners of small businesses and entrepreneurs. Small businesses are the primary source of new job creation.
H.R. 4210 would raise income tax rates substantially for some individuals, in some cases increasing marginal rates by more than 30 percent.
This is the wrong time to raise taxes, to increase the deficit, or to send a message of fiscal irresponsibility to financial markets.
I am therefore returning H.R. 4210, and I ask the Congress again to pass my economic growth program, without raising taxes.
George Bush
The White House,
March 20, 1992.
  