
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate seven individuals to serve in his administration.
The President intends to nominate Carol D'Amico to be Assistant Secretary of Education for Vocational and Adult Education. She is currently the Executive Director for Workforce, Economic and Community Development at Ivy Tech Community College of Indiana in Indianapolis, Indiana. Previously, D'Amico was a policy and planning specialist for the Indiana Department of Education and served as a program Analyst for the Indiana General Assembly. She received both a Master's degree and Ed.D from Indiana University.
The President intends to nominate Francis S. Blake to be Deputy Secretary of Energy. He is presently Senior Vice President of Corporate Business Development at General Electric where he has served since 1991. Before joining GE, he was a Partner with the law firm of Swindler & Berlin in Washington, D.C., and served as General Counsel at the Environmental Protection Agency from 1985 to 1988. He served as Deputy Counsel to Vice President George H.W. Bush from 1981 to 1983. A resident of Connecticut, he is a graduate of Harvard University and Columbia University School of Law.
The President intends to nominate Linda J. Fisher to be Deputy Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency. Most recently she was Vice President of Government Affairs for the Monsanto Company. Fisher served at the EPA from 1985 to 1993 as Assistant Administrator for the Office of Prevention, Pesticides and Toxic Substances from 1989 to 1993, as Assistant Administrator for the Office of Policy, Planning and Evaluation at EPA from 1988 to 1989 and as Chief of Staff from 1985 to 1988. She received her undergraduate degree from Miami University in Ohio, a Master's degree from Ohio State University and an M.B.A. from George Washington University.
The President intends to nominate Claude A. Allen to be Deputy Secretary of Health and Human Services. Allen currently serves as the Secretary of Health and Human Resources for the State of Virginia and served in the Virginia Attorney General's Office from 1995 to 1998. He was an Associate at Baker & Botts in Washington, D.C. from 1991 to 1995 and served as a professional staff member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee from 1987 to 1985. He is a graduate of the University of North Carolina and Duke University Law School.
The President intends to nominate Dave D. Lauriski to be Assistant Secretary of Labor for Mine Safety and Health. He is currently the President of Lauriski and Associates, LLC, a consulting firm in Price, Utah. He served as General Manager of Energy West Mining Company from 1995 to 1999 and as the Director of Health, Safety, Environmental and Government Affairs for Interwest Mining Company from 1993 to 1995. He is a graduate of Utah State University and the College of Eastern Utah.
The President intends to nominate Charlotte L. Beers to be Under Secretary of State for Public Diplomacy. Most recently she was Chair of J. Walter Thompson, New York based advertising agency and served in several positions including CEO at Ogilvy & Mather from 1992 to 1999. From 1979 to 1990 she was with Tatham-Laird and Kudner and spent ten years with J. Walter Thompson in Chicago from 1969 to 1979. Originally from Beaumont, Texas, she is a graduate of Louisiana State University.
The President intends to nominate Lorne W. Craner to be Assistant Secretary of State for Democracy, Human Rights and Labor. He is currently President of the International Republican Institute. He served as Director of Asian Affairs at the National Security Council from 1992 to 1993 and was Deputy Assistant Secretary for Legislative Affairs at the Department of State from 1989 to 1992. Before joining the State Department, he served as foreign policy advisor to Senator John McCain. He is a graduate of Reed College and received a Master's degree in National Security Studies from Georgetown University.
  