
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate six individuals to serve as members of his administration.
The President intends to nominate David A. Gross for the rank of Ambassador during his tenure of service as Deputy Assistant Secretary for International Communications and Information Policy in the Bureau of Economic and Business Affairs and U.S. coordinator for International Communications and Information Policy.
The President intends to nominate David Phillip Gonzales to be United States Marshal for the District of Arizona. Gonzales has served with the Arizona Department of Public Safety in Phoenix since 1975, and has been promoted through the ranks to Commander. From 1973 to 1975, he was a Deputy Sheriff with the Coconino County Sheriff's Office. Gonzales is a graduate of Flagstaff High School.
The President intends to nominate John Lee Moore to be United States Marshal for the Eastern District of Texas. Moore has served with the U.S. Marshal Service since 1983, in both the Eastern District of Texas and the Northern District of Texas. During his service, he has been promoted through the ranks to the rank of criminal investigator. Moore began his law enforcement career in 1973, as the City Marshal for the City of Anton, Texas. He went on to serve as a Police Officer from 1974 to 1981 in Littlefield, Plainview, Amarillo, and Dimmit, Texas. A former member of the U.S. Army, he is a graduate of Wayland Baptist University.
The President intends to nominate Edward Zahren to be United States Marshal for the District of Colorado. Zahren was with the United States Secret Service for 29 years based in Denver, Colorado, and retired as Special Agent-Charge in 2000. Before joining the Secret Service, he was a Postal Inspector with the U.S. Postal Service. Zahren is a graduate of Youngstown State University.
The President intends to nominate Gorden Edward Eden, Jr., to be United States Marshal for the District of New Mexico. Eden's law enforcement career includes service at the Department of Public Safety for the State of New Mexico from 1975 to 1988, and again a as Bureau Chief from 1991 to 1995. Eden also served as Special Investigator for the New Mexico Attorney General's Office from 1990 to 1991. Eden is a graduate of the University of Phoenix.
The President intends to nominate William P. Kruziki to be United States Marshal for the Eastern District of Wisconsin. Kruziki has served as Sheriff of the Waukesha County Sheriff's Office since 1995. From 1992 to 1994, he was Security Manager for Marriott in Brookfield, Wisconsin. He served with the Waukesha County Sheriff's Office from 1973 to 1993, where he was promoted through the ranks to Captain, and he was a Special Deputy U.S. Marshal with the U.S. Marshal's Service for the Eastern District of Wisconsin from 1978 ? 1979. Kruziki is a graduate of Milton College.
  