
    ARLINGTON, VA -- U.S. Senator John McCain's presidential campaign today released the first television ad of the general election. The ad, entitled "624787," poses important questions to the American people about what values they want in their next president, and highlights John McCain's experience, character and optimistic vision for our future. "624787" will run statewide in the important battleground state of New Mexico. 
VIEW THE AD HERE: http://johnmccain.com/service/
The campaign further announced that on Monday, John McCain will embark on a "Service to America" tour where he will introduce himself to the nation through a series of speeches and visits that trace the life of a man indebted to his nation, humbled by the opportunity to serve his country, honored by his family's love and deeply moved by his fellow Americans' courage and sacrifice. The tour will highlight the events and figures that shaped his views of right and wrong, forgiveness and grace and the tradition of service and sacrifice ingrained in him from generations of McCains. This "Service to America" tour will fundamentally be about the future of America and the change John McCain will bring as president, informed by the values that have guided his life.
Further details on the "Service to America" tour will be released today. 
Script For "624787" (:60-TV)  
JOHN MCCAIN: Keep that faith. Keep your courage. Stick together. Stay strong. Do not yield. Stand up. We're Americans. And we'll never surrender. 
ANNCR: What must a president believe about us? About America?
That she is worth protecting?
That liberty is priceless?
Our people, honorable?
Our future, prosperous, remarkable and free?
And, what must we believe about that president?
What does he think?
Where has he been?
Has he walked the walk? 
INTERVIEWER: What is your rank? 
JOHN MCCAIN: Lt. Commander in the Navy. 
INTERVIEWER: And your official number? 
JOHN MCCAIN: 624787 
ANNCR: John McCain
The American president Americans have been waiting for. 
JOHN MCCAIN: I'm John McCain and I approve this message.
  