
    President George W. Bush and President Kim Dae-jung of the Republic of Korea today reaffirmed the fundamental importance and strength of the U.S.-ROK security alliance, which has prevented war and promoted stability, prosperity, and democracy on the Korean Peninsula for over five decades. The two Presidents pledged to deepen further the comprehensive partnership shared by the United States and the Republic of Korea through enhanced security, political, economic and cultural cooperation.
The two Presidents agreed that reconciliation and cooperation between South and North Korea contribute to peace on the Korean Peninsula and lasting stability in Northeast Asia. President Bush expressed support for the Republic of Korea Government's policy of engagement with North Korea and President Kim's leading role in resolving inter-Korean issues. The two leaders shared the hope that a second inter-Korean summit will make a positive contribution to inter-Korean relations and Northeast Asian security.
Both Presidents reaffirmed their commitment to continue the 1994 Agreed Framework and called on North Korea to join in taking the needed steps for its successful implementation. They agreed to encourage North Korea to take actions to address the concerns of the international community. The Presidents agreed on the importance of maintaining close consultations and coordination on policy toward North Korea, both bilaterally and trilaterally with Japan.
President Bush and President Kim agreed that the global security environment is fundamentally different than during the Cold War. New types of threats, including from weapons of mass destruction and missiles as a means of delivery, have emerged that require new approaches to deterrence and defense. The two leaders shared the view that countering these threats requires a broad strategy involving a variety of measures, including active non-proliferation diplomacy, defensive systems, and other pertinent measures. They concurred on the importance of consultations among allies and other interested parties on these measures, including missile defenses, with a view to strengthening global peace and security.
President Bush and President Kim noted that the United States and the Republic of Korea are developing more mature and mutually beneficial bilateral economic and trade relations. Both sides agreed to work together closely to support Korea's economic reform efforts and to address bilateral trade issues. The two leaders endorsed the early launch of a new round of trade negotiations in the WTO.
  