
    WASHINGTON – Today, President Barack Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key Administration posts:
•      Danny Glaser, Assistant Secretary for Terrorist Financing, Department of the Treasury
•      Jon Leibowitz, Commissioner and Chairman, Federal Trade Commission
•      Robert E. Patterson, Ambassador to Turkmenistan, Department of State
•      Paul Piquado, Assistant Secretary for Import Administration, Department of Commerce
President Obama said, "It gives me great confidence that such dedicated and capable individuals have agreed to join this Administration to serve the American people. I look forward to working with them in the months and years to come."
President Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key Administration posts:
Danny Glaser, Nominee for Assistant Secretary for Terrorist Financing, Department of the Treasury
Daniel L. Glaser has served as the Department of the Treasury's Deputy Assistant Secretary for Terrorist Financing and Financial Crimes since November 2004. In this role, Mr. Glaser is responsible for developing and coordinating policies to protect the U.S. and international financial systems from abuse related to money laundering, counter-terrorist financing, and the financing of the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. Prior to this position, Mr. Glaser served as the first Director of the Treasury Department's Executive Office of Terrorist Financing and Financial Crimes and as Senior Counsel for Financial Crimes in the Office of the General Counsel. In 2008, Mr. Glaser received the Presidential Rank Award and has been a three time recipient of the Treasury Department's Secretary's Honor Award. Mr. Glaser began his career as an associate in the law firm of Coudert Brothers. He is a graduate of the University of Michigan and the Columbia University School of Law.
Jon Leibowitz, Nominee for Commissioner and Chairman, Federal Trade Commission
Jon Leibowitz has been the Chairman of the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) since 2009. He has been an FTC Commissioner since 2004. Before his time at the FTC, Mr. Leibowitz served as vice president for congressional affairs for the Motion Picture Association of America from 2000 to 2004. Previously, he was the Democratic chief counsel and staff director for the U.S. Senate Antitrust Subcommittee from 1997 to 2000, where he focused on competition policy and telecommunications matters. He served as chief counsel and staff director for the Senate Subcommittee on Terrorism and Technology from 1995 to 1996 and the Senate Subcommittee on Juvenile Justice from 1991 to 1994. In addition, he served as chief counsel to Senator Herb Kohl from 1989 to 2000 and worked for Senator Paul Simon from 1986 to 1987. Mr. Leibowitz received a B.A. in American History from the University of Wisconsin and a J.D. from New York University School of Law.
Robert E. Patterson, Nominee for Ambassador to Turkmenistan, Department of State
Robert E. Patterson most recently served as Counselor for Somalia Affairs at the U.S. Embassy in Nairobi, Kenya. Mr. Patterson has also served as chief of the Political/Internal office in Moscow and has headed the political sections at U.S. embassies in Hungary, Ukraine, and Armenia. Mr. Patterson began his State Department career in 1985, serving first in Toronto, and then in the Office of Soviet Affairs in Washington, D.C., and in Leningrad. Mr. Patterson holds an M.A. and an M.Phil from Columbia University, as well as an M.A. from the U.S. Naval War College and a B.A. from Reed College
Paul Piquado, Nominee for Assistant Secretary for Import Administration, Department of Commerce
Paul Piquado currently serves as the Deputy Assistant Secretary for Antidumping and Countervailing Duty (AD/CVD) Policy and Negotiations in the Import Administration at the Department of Commerce, a position that he has held since March 2010. Mr. Piquado oversees the formulation and implementation of policies governing the administration of the AD/CVD statutes. Mr. Piquado previously spent five years serving as the executive director of the Office of Trade Policy for the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania where he served as the principal advisor to Governor Ed Rendell on international trade and investment policy matters. During this period Mr. Piquado also served as an advisor to the U.S. Trade Representative's Intergovernmental Policy Advisory Committee on Trade. Prior to serving the Commonwealth, Mr. Piquado worked as an attorney at Sidley Austin Brown & Wood LLP and Powell, Goldstein, Frazer & Murphy LLP, where he advised clients on multiple trade issues including international trade disputes and arbitrations. Mr. Piquado holds a J.D. from the New York University School of Law, an M.A.L.D from the Tufts University Fletcher School of Law & Diplomacy and a B.A. from Williams College.
  