
    Altanta, GA - Newt 2012 released a new video today entitled "Why Romney Can't Beat Obama" that poses a simple question: "how can we run against Obamacare in 2012, if Republicans have to defend Romneycare?" The video features quotes from Governor Tim Pawlenty and President Obama about the two plans are virtually identical.
"Governor Pawlenty and President Obama don't agree on much, but they do agree that Romneycare was the blueprint for Obamacare," said Joe DeSantis Communications Director for Newt 2012. "After nearly six years of running for president, Governor Romney has yet to offer a single credible defense of his government-run health care plan. There's a reason: One doesn't exist.  The bottom line is that defending Romneycare in 2012 is a losing position for conservatives."
Transcript
Tim Pawlenty: "President Obama said he designed Obamacare after Romneycare and basically made it Obamaneycare."
Narrator:  "What happened after Romneycare became law?"
"It became the model for Obamacare."
Individual mandate.
Penalties on businesses.
Big bureaucratic insurance exchanges.
Government-approved insurance policies.
Government subsidies.
More government bureaucracy.
Tim Pawlenty: "President Obama said he designed Obamacare after Romneycare and basically made it Obamaneycare."
Narrator:  Want more proof?
"Obama's staff met with Romney's health care advisors to draft Obamacare."
"The ‘architect' of Romneycare was paid three-hundred eighty thousand dollars to help Nancy Pelosi's Democrat controlled Congress draft Obamacare legislation.
"That's why Obama said Romney's plan was the blueprint for his plan."
Barack Obama: "This is sort of similar to the bill that Mitt Romney, the Republican Governor and now Presidential candidate passed in Massachusetts."
Tim Pawlenty: "President Obama said he designed Obamacare after Romneycare and basically made it Obamaneycare."
Narrator:  "Two men, same plan. Republicans ran against Obamacare in 2010 and won. But how can we run against Obamacare in 2012, if Republicans have to defend Romneycare?  And that's why Mitt Romney can't beat Obama."
  