
    The President today announced his intention to appoint the following persons to be members of the Commission on Presidential Scholars. He also intends to designate Beverly Fisher White to be Chairman of the Commission.
Beverly Fisher White was director of cultural affairs for the State of Florida. She resides in Miami, Fla.
Don W. Adams is president and chief executive officer of Lincoln Center, Inc., in Springfield, Ill.
Virginia M. Berg is a homemaker and has been active in Republican Party politics. She resides in St. Paul, Minn.
Helen Bie is Republican National committeewoman from Wisconsin and resides in Green Bay.
Grace Ward Boulton is serving as Republican National committeewoman for Oklahoma. She resides in Oklahoma City, Okla.
Ward B. Brown has been serving as State senator for district 19 in New Hampshire since 1971. He resides in East Hampstead, N.H.
John S. Carroll is a partner in the law firm of Carroll and Smith in Honolulu, Hawaii.
Robert S. Carter is president of Robert S. Carter Associates in Washington, D.C.
Fran Chiles is serving as Republican National committeewoman from Texas and resides in Ft. Worth.
Aubyn A. Curtiss is currently serving as a legislator in the Montana house of representatives. She resides in Fortine, Mont.
Jean K. Elder is an educational consultant, department of education, State of Michigan. She resides in Okemos, Mich.
Timothy M. Fermoile is currently a management trainee with Vac Air Nevada, Inc., in Sparks, Nev., and resides in Reno.
Hugh C. Fowler is a State senator from Colorado. He is also vice president, HMO Systems. He resides in Littleton, Colo.
Jewett M. Fulkerson is vice chairman, Clay County Park and Recreation Commission. He is also president of Liberty Hills Development in Liberty, Mo.
Victor Gaston is assistant principal for the Mobile County public school system. He resides in Mobile, Ala.
Alberta J. K. Gibbons is Republican National committeewoman from Utah. She resides in Blanding, Utah.
June Grayson is a political and business consultant in Little Rock, Ark., where she resides.
Robert A. Hall is director, department of health and environmental protection, municipality of Anchorage. He resides in Anchorage, Alaska.
William R. Harvey is president of Hampton Institute in Hampton, Va.
Leslie D. Jamison is director of information and referral services, and director of housing counseling (HUD and FMHA) at Trident United Way. She resides in Charleston, S.C.
Edward J. Joffe, Jr., is president and owner of Park Custom Molding in Linden, NJ. He resides in Summit, N.J.
Morris Kay is serving as Republican State chairman of Kansas. He resides in Lawrence, Kans.
Margaret Kelly is secretary/treasurer of Kelly Oil and Kelly Realty in Rawlins, Wyo., where she resides.
Jim Kolbe is a State senator from Arizona. He is also vice president of Wood Canyon Corp. He resides in Tucson, Ariz.
John J. Lainson is secretary, director, and executive committee member for Dutton-Lainson Co. in Hastings, Neb.
Steven A. Merksamer is serving as special assistant attorney general for the State of California. He resides in Sacramento, Calif.
Diane W. McCoy is Republican National committeewoman from North Carolina. She resides in Summerfield, N.C.
John R. McKernan, Jr., is a partner with the law firm of Verrill and Dana in Portland, Maine. He resides in Cumberland Foreside, Maine.
Evelyn W. McPhail is general manager of Fairway Villa Resort in Bay St. Louis, Miss.
Dorothea Moore has been active in the Republican Party on the State and local levels for over 20 years. She resides in Moro, Oreg.
James T. Neal is publisher of the Noblesville Daily Ledger in Noblesville, Ind.
Sanford C. Nemitz is administrator, Oil and Gas Partnerships, in Plymouth Meeting, Pa. He resides in Warrington, Pa.
Hernan Padilla is serving as mayor of San Juan, P.R.
Betty Lou Pyle is Republican National committeewoman from North Dakota. She resides in West Fargo, N. Dak.
Edward Russell Redd is associate general counsel for the Massachusetts Port Authority and resides in Boston.
Donna Weintraub Sternberg is currently vice president of Goudchaux's, Inc., in Baton Rouge, La., where she resides.
Mary Stivers is a homemaker and has been involved in the Republican Party in Decatur, Ga. Don Sunquist is president of GSA Corp. in Memphis, Tenn.
Larry D. Swarm is currently with Four Star Realty in Salem, W. Va.
Harold D. Weidman is co-owner and principal broker of Kay Realty in Ludlow, Vt.
Eunice B. Whittlesey is serving as legislative liaison for New York State senate standing committee on commerce and economic development. She resides in Scotia, N.Y.
George W. Wittgraf is a partner with the firm of McDonald, Sayre and Wittgraf in Cherokee, Iowa.
  