
    Federal and State Officials
Senate Finance Committee Chairman Sen. Orrin Hatch (R-UT): "Since KORUS went into force more than five years ago, it became clear that Korea needed to do more to fully implement the agreement in order to remove trade and investment barriers for American exporters. The agreement in principle announced today makes steps toward improved implementation and maintains the strong economic ties between our two nations."
Sen. Joni Ernst (R-IA): "I'm pleased to see that the Trump administration maintained the U.S.-Korea Free Trade Agreement.... An updated KORUS will ensure American farmers and ranchers are able to continue enjoying important trade access to South Korea."
Sen. Deb Fischer (R-NE): "I am pleased to see the administration has made a good trade deal with South Korea. This is a step in the right direction that will expand opportunities for our producers and the state of Nebraska."
Sen. Rob Portman (R-OH): "South Korea is an important economic and strategic partner, and modernizing this trade agreement will help strengthen the ties between our two countries. This agreement is a positive step forward for American manufacturers, service providers, and farmers. I'm pleased to see new commitments to boost U.S. auto exports to South Korea and improve the customs process to help us export more 'Made in America' goods to the country."
House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Rep. Kevin Brady (R-TX): "The improvements to KORUS as well as the agreement on steel will strengthen the economic ties between our two countries and will be beneficial to American consumers, workers, and manufacturers. Today's announcement demonstrates the Administration's commitment to strengthening our relationship with Korea and increasing our competitiveness in the Asia-Pacific region."
Rep. Bradley Byrne (R-AL): "Great work by @POTUS and @USTradeRep in moving forward with a strong trade agreement with South Korea. It is critical that the U.S. remain engaged economically and diplomatically in the Asia-Pacific region."
Rep. Mimi Walters (R-CA): "I am pleased to see KORUS strengthened."
Rep. Doug Collins (R-GA): "Glad that @POTUS is looking ahead for Americans and understands that American goods and innovation are good for workers and families at home and around the world."
Rep. Don Bacon (R-NE): "The enhancements made to the trade agreement better our relationship with South Korea and encourage the expansion of America's trade economy."
Rep. Mike Kelly (R-PA): "Thank you, @realDonaldTrump & @USTradeRep! As co-chairman of the Congressional Korea Caucus & a member of the W&M Trade Subcommittee, I know full well how much this news means for our economy & our workers. When America negotiates with strength, good deals get even better! #KORUS"
Rep. Ted Poe (R-TX): "Overall, the new KORUS is a victory for free trade, which levels the playing field and reinforces our bond with a crucial American ally. I congratulate Ambassador Lighthizer and @realDonaldTrump on negotiating a great deal."
Rep. Dave Reichert (R-WA): "With today's announcement, we see an even stronger partnership with South Korea and a firm commitment from the Administration to the Asia-Pacific region. Thank you to Ambassador Lighthizer and his team for their work on this important agreement"
House Ways and Means Committee Majority: "Congratulations to POTUS @realDonaldTrump and @USTradeRep Lighthizer for a successful agreement on #KORUS."
Secretary of Agriculture Sonny Perdue: "I applaud President Trump, Ambassador Lighthizer, and the U.S. trade team for partnering with the Republic of Korea to modernize KORUS and protect the strong agricultural components that were built into the pact. Korea has long been an important trading partner for U.S. agriculture and currently ranks as our 6th-highest value market. U.S. agricultural exports to the country have increased 95 percent over the past decade and we look forward to continued growth. Through this new agreement in principle, progress was also made with regard to Korea's customs verification procedures, which have been a substantial concern related to exports of U.S. agricultural and industrial goods."
U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer: "The improved KORUS agreement reflects the President's leadership in delivering more reciprocal trade outcomes benefiting U.S. workers, exporters, and businesses. The United States and Korea have strengthened an important economic relationship by agreeing to substantial improvements to KORUS that will help rebalance our trade, reduce our trade deficit, and expand U.S. export opportunities."
Gov. Jeff Colyer (R-KS): "Thank you @POTUS and @USTR for working hard to get the US-South Korea Free Trade Agreement modernized so we can facilitate commerce between our nations without hurting American jobs. It's a great deal for the American people!"
Gov. Pete Ricketts (R-NE): "South Korea is home to some of Nebraska's best customers and investors.... This new trade deal demonstrates a long-term commitment to this partnership with South Korea, which will deepen our ties and encourage even more investment in our future."
Advocacy Organizations, Businesses, and Unions
Alliance for American Manufacturing President Scott Paul: "The agreement with South Korea to better level the playing field on steel and autos is an encouraging sign that the administration's trade strategy is achieving results. We believe the deal's steel provision will be as effective as a tariff in achieving the goals of strengthening our domestic industry and ensuring it can supply America's security needs."
Center for a New American Security Senior Advisor and Senior Director Dr. Patrick M. Cronin: "By extending protection to U.S. light trucks out to 2041, and streamlining the selling of U.S. cars and auto parts in Korea, the Trump-Lighthizer understanding with the Moon administration motors some distance in the direction of fixing critical flaws in KORUS. The agreement to add greater access for U.S. pharmaceuticals in South Korea only further improves on free and fair trade, the principles of which the Trump administration intends to apply universally. The U.S.-Korean deal sets an outstanding precedent for improving other trade agreements.... By securing a new approach to bilateral trade, the United States and South Korea can focus on the road ahead, and keep all of their attention on the high politics of peace and security."
Coalition for a Prosperous America Chairman Daniel DiMicco and CEO Michael Stumo: "We commend President Trump, Trade Ambassador Lighthizer and their team for achieving the first ever renegotiation of a trade agreement in US history. The KORUS agreement was a bad deal for the US, doubling our trade deficit with South Korea. Negotiators brought home significant concessions without giving ground. They used our nation's considerable leverage, in the form of the world's largest consumer market, to insist on a better outcome for American workers and businesses."
The Committee on Pipe & Tube Imports Executive Director and General Counsel Roger Schagrin: "We would like to thank President Trump, Ambassador Lighthizer, and Secretary Ross for their leadership in furthering the Section 232 National Security relief to get a good deal for American manufacturers and American workers.... This agreement should cut Korean exports of pipe and tube by over a million tons a year, allowing thousands of laid off American workers to return to work."
Fiat Chrysler Automobiles: "... [T]he agreement announced today by the United States and Korea includes measures that could make it easier for FCA US to export our vehicles to Korea."
General Motors: "... General Motors is pleased by the progress made by both sides in the U.S.-Korea Free Trade Agreement for the U.S. auto industry. We welcome Korea's acceptance of more vehicles built to U.S. safety standards and efforts to harmonize Korea's environmental rules to recognize and accept U.S. requirements. We continue to have high expectations for KORUS and would like to see its positive trends continue. We appreciate the Trump administration's efforts on these important issues."
U.S. Chamber of Commerce President and CEO Thomas Donohue: "The U.S. Chamber welcomes today's announcement from the United States and South Korea regarding KORUS, restoring certainty to one of our most important economic and national security relationships."
United Steelworkers International President Leo Gerard: "Ambassador Lighthizer's renegotiation of KORUS should help to save jobs. KORUS was a bad trade agreement right from the start. The United States has racked up billions of dollars in new trade deficits and lost tens of thousands of jobs because of that agreement. In the steel sector, Korea's predatory trade practices have been devastating. The quotas that the USTR has obtained should provide meaningful and lasting relief."
  