
    Billie Jean King also endorses Clinton; campaign mobilizes women supporters through web chat and Ferraro fundraising appeal
Hillary Clinton was endorsed by the National Organization for Women's political arm and sports legend Billie Jean King during a day of women's outreach that included a live web chat for supporters with the women running Hillary's campaign.
"At this time in our history, this country needs a strong, experienced and principled leadership to restore faith in our government and repair its credibility at home and abroad," said Kim Gandy, chair of NOW PAC. "Senator Clinton has a long history of support for women's empowerment, and her public record is testimony to her leadership on issues important to women in the U.S. and around the globe."
As part of its endorsement, NOW PAC will launch a "Make History with Hillary" campaign to raise money and mobilize its membership to support Hillary's historic candidacy. The largest feminist advocacy group in the country, NOW has more than 500,000 members in all 50 states and has been a leading advocate for women's rights for more than 40 years.
Tennis great and social activist Billie Jean King also endorsed Hillary today, calling her "A winner who has the vision, the drive and the knowledge to lead this country."
"It's an honor to be supported by these accomplished women," Clinton said. "No one has been more committed to equal rights and ending discrimination in our society."
To cap off the day of outreach to women voters, the campaign sent an email from former Vice Presidential candidate Geraldine Ferraro urging supporters to help Hillary finish the first fundraising quarter strong, while the women running Hillary's campaign fielded questions during a live web chat.
Campaign manager Patti Solis Doyle, Director of Policy Neera Tanden, Senior Adviser Ann Lewis and Senior Policy Adviser Leecia Eve said the women's vote in the 2008 election would be crucial and explained how supporters could get involved in the campaign. Women are expected to be the X-factor in this election, making up 54 percent of all voters.
  