
    Pool Reports by Sabrina Eaton, cleveland.com



Sent:
Reports:




March 19, 202009:44 

WH Pool Report #1
I'm the print pooler on this damp & overcast morning. The new temperature taking ritual at the White House gates did not cause any delays entering the premises.
Here's what's on today's public schedule:
Members of the Coronavirus Task Force are supposed to hold an 11 AM briefing, which will be televised and livestreamed. I will let people know if anything happens that couldn't be seen on television.
At around 2PM, President Trump is supposed to visit Federal Emergency Management Agency HQ for a video teleconference with state governors to discuss partnerships to "prepare, mitigate and respond to COVID-19."
That's what I know about so far.



March 19, 202011:30 

WH Pool Report #2
Tidbits from this morning:
Former White House press secretary Scott Spicer was spotted in the press room before the briefing, though he left some time ago. He said he was just visiting. Briefing attendees – who had their temperatures taken before entering the White House - had to get their temperatures taken a second time and were issued stickers to show they weren't feverish. Right now, reporters are waiting for the briefing to begin. A two minute warning has been issued, so it will start soon.



March 19, 202011:50 

WH Pool report #2A
1:42 PMSubject: WH Pool Report #3The gather time for Trump's FEMA departure is delayed to 2:10 PM, so it seems his visit may run a bit late.In the last dispatch, pooler was referring to former White House press secretary Sean Spicer who stopped by the press room say hello.



March 19, 202013:42 

WH Pool Report #3
The gather time for Trump's FEMA departure is delayed to 2:10 PM, so it seems his visit may run a bit late.



March 19, 202014:32 

WH pool report #4
Vehicle caravan is departing from the White House for FEMA at 2:30 pm.



March 19, 202014:36 

WH pool report 4a
Vehicle caravan arrived at FEMA at 2:35. Trip was uneventful and brief.



March 19, 202015:19 

WH Pool Report #5
Trump is sitting at a long sitting at a conference table beside vice president Mike Pence. Other officials in the meeting include Kellyanne Conway, Jared Kushner, Dr. Birx & HHS Sec. Azar,
A screen is at the other end of the table, with square panels showing representatives from states including Utah, Louisiana, Mississippi, Nebraska, New Jersey, Maryland, Oklahoma, Arizona and Georgia.
Trump and Pence made brief remarks before hearing from the governors. Pence called the meeting "an opportunity to talk about the progress we're making," and told them "we're with you every step of the way."
The governors of Georgia and New Jersey addressed Trump first, asking for block grants to help them respond to the virus. Trump said he'd consider it "strongly."
Louisiana's governor noted his state has one of the highest per-capital virus levels of any state, and said he's worried that the virus will exceed the capacity of state's health care structure to handle it in as early as 7 days. He asked for help dealing with the surge capacity.
More to come. Governors are speaking one by one



March 19, 202015:33 

WH Pool Report 5a - More from the FEMA meeting
Rhode Island's governor asked for hospitals to get aid in the next stimulus round, as they're losing revenue because they've suspended their elective surgeries.
Nebraska's governor expressed concern about the lack of reagents to process tests, and child care for first responders. Utah's governor said he wanted to talk about "what we can do," and suggested that we hear more optimism. He urged exploration of outdoor recreation opportunities like golf.
Michigan's governor thanked Trump for his policy on the Canadian border. She discussed concerns about the auto industry, and liquidity up and down the supply chain. Trump said he will be taking care of the auto industry.
The governor of Illinois expressed interest in establishing drive-through testing, and said he was concerned that not enough tests would be available.
The meeting is still going on ...



March 19, 202015:57 

WH Pool Report #6 leaving FEMA
The meeting has wrapped up and the caravan is leaving at 3:55 PM I will file more about what was said. Meanwhile, the White House press office passed this along:
Today, President Donald J. Trump will lead a video teleconference at the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) Headquarters with members of the White House Coronavirus Taskforce and our Nation's Governors to prepare, mitigate, and respond to COVID-19. The Administration continues its whole-of-Government response to this pandemic.
The following individuals are expected to attend:
The White House
President Donald J. TrumpVice Presidnt Mike PenceJared Kushner, Assistant to the President and Senior Advisor Kellyanne Conway, Assistant to the President and Senior CounselorAdmiral Brett Giroir, Assistant Secretary for Health, Department of Health and Human ServicesDan Scavino, Assistant to the President and Senior AdvisorMarc Short, Assistant to the President and Chief of Staff to the Vice PresidentDr. Julia Nesheiwat, Deputy Assistant to the President and Homeland Security and Counterterrorism AdvisorDoug Hoelscher, Deputy Assistant to the President and Director of Intragovernmental AffairsNic Pottebaum, Special Assistant to the President and Deputy Director of Intergovernmental AffairsKatie Miller, Special Assistant to the President and Press Secretary to the Vice PresidentAmbassador Debbie Birx, M.D., White House Coronavirus CoordinatorOlivia Troye, National Security Council
Trump Administration
Secretary Alex Azar, Department of Health and Human ServicesActing Secretary Chad Wolf, Department of Homeland SecurityAdministrator Pete Gaynor, Federal Emergency Management AgencyCommissioner Stephen Hahn, Food and Drug Administration



March 19, 202016:09 

WH Pool Report #6a
We pulled into the White House at 4 PM, after an uneventful ride that was too bumpy to be able to type much.



March 19, 202017:39 

WH Pool Report #7
Here's more of what the governors had to say to Trump at the FEMA meeting:
After the governor of Illinois said the 5,000 drive through tests it was issued were not enough, and the state needs more reagents and swabs to rapidly expand its tests, FEMA officials told him they'd make more tests available and urged him to seek what's needed through his regional FEMA administrator. They also suggested he try to find the tests on the commercial market.
Maryland Gov. Larry Hogan discussed the need to get more relief money to states, as they're in a better position to more quickly get money out to small businesses affected by the pandemic. He said they're trying to boost access to test kits and lifesaving equipment such as ventilators. Governors also want more flexibility in use of their national guards, he said, and they'd like more flexibility in dealing with census and Real ID requirements. He noted they'd prefer not to force people to visit motor vehicle bureaus but real ID "requires us to get all these people in there by October 1."
Oregon's governor thanked Trump for the phone calls and said the state's needs are reflected in a National Governors Association letter that Hogan provided.
South Dakota's governor also described a reagent shortage and expressed concern about how supplies were being distributed. She said they were able to resume tests after getting more supplies, but was concerned reagents were sent to hospital in her state that's not an FDA approved lab. She said she didn't want to be a lower priority area because her state is smaller, and less populous. Trump replied: "That will never happen to you and it will never happen to your state."
New Mexico's governor expressed support for block grants. She said they were concerned about getting personal protective equipment and testing swabs, and there's a lot of competition to get supplies. Trump told her he thought it might be a good idea to coordinate supply deliveries through FEMA.
Alaska's governor reiterated interest in block grants and the need for swabs. "We'll take care of that immediately," said Trump.
Nevada's governor asked that the hospitality industry be included in any recovery package, expressing concern about the effects of shutting down the Las Vegas strip on the lower-wage workers it employs. He said hospitality is the states "number one industry."
North Dakota's governor thanked Trump for being responsive to his concerns, and applauded his move to fill up the nation's strategic petroleum reserve. He also urged block grants for states, arguing they'd allow faster support for small businesses.
Idaho's governor suggested the use of laser printing might help increase the supply of parts for ventilators, if the FDA would provide standards and the administration would help us with patent protection. He was the last governor to speak before the meeting ended.
In conclusion, Trump said he'd probably hold these meetings often, until the coronavirus problem is solved.
"Feel free to call me, the vice president, anybody at the table, anybody in the room except for the media, don't call the media." he said



March 19, 202018:04 

WH Pool Report #8
Travel/photo lid called at 6:01 pm.



March 19, 202019:32 

WH Pool Report #9
From Judd Deere:
Today, President Donald J. Trump spoke with President Emmanuel Macron of France. President Trump and President Macron discussed the latest developments on and efforts to combat coronavirus. The two leaders agreed to continue close cooperation on resolving the pandemic and minimizing its economic impact, in coordination with the G7 and other international partners. The two leaders also discussed telecommunications security and European migration issues.




  