
    Verona, PA - Today marks the second anniversary of the signing of Obamacare - So many of the Obamacare promises have been broken.
We were promised that our healthcare costs would go down - broken.
We were promised that we could keep your own insurance - broken.
No one should be surprised in the least that these promises have been broken - the same promises were made and broken in Massachusetts with the blueprint of Obamacare, Romneycare.
Since Romneycare = Obamacare, we know we can expect more of the same broken promises. But most people probably don't realize that recent reports have exposed the most egregious broken promise of all in Romneycare - Romneycare now offers free taxpayer funded abortions. We can't afford to put the Etch-A-Sketch candidate in charge of our healthcare and an issue as important as life.
With Romneycare, taxpayer funded abortions started as a $50 copay - and while partially subsidizing abortions is horrible enough, now we learn that some of Romneycare's healthcare plans offer completely free taxpayer funded abortions.
"Mitt Romney has misled voters on Romneycare; he said he was not for mandates at the federal level when in fact he was," Santorum said. "He said he didn't require Catholic hospitals to provide services that were against their conscience, when in fact he did, and he said he didn't provide free abortions under Romneycare, when he did."
The following is a list of Romneycare copayments:
Benefit / Copay
Preventive Service / $0
Office visit to your primary care provider (PCP) / $0
Office visit to a specialist / $0
Radiology, imaging (x-rays), lab work / $0
Outpatient surgery at a hospital or ambulatory surgery center / $0
Abortion / $0
Amy Contrada labels Mitt Romney as "The Enabler," writing "This is how his government-dictated health plan is playing out. And he's still proud of it. When he does touch on defects in his health plan, he never mentions abortion coverage as a problem. He's either fine with it, or realizes he has to downplay it to get the conservative vote."
Contrada adds, "Of course, the abortions are not exactly free. We, the taxpayers cover the cost, whether we want to or not. This violates the religious beliefs of a majority of citizens."
Greg Jackson notes socialized healthcare as one of the many similarities between Romney and President Obama in his post: Obama supports socialized healthcare. Romney signed Planned Parenthood-Ted Kennedy-Hillary Clinton endorsed Romneycare (which now includes free abortion coverage) into law that was used as the model for Obamacare.
  