
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

As we approach the 1990's, America must be prepared to formulate energy policy with boldness and vision. Virtually every sector of our highly complex, technological, and interdependent society requires a reliable energy source to keep it functioning smoothly and efficiently.
Community leaders and school officials, both public and private, can help ensure that we meet our energy needs by focusing public attention on the crucial role of education about energy issues. A deeper understanding by teachers, students, and all our leaders of tomorrow about the nature of the energy challenges that lie before us is necessary if we are to continue to meet our energy requirements both at home and abroad.
America is already meeting its energy needs in many important ways. We are continuing to fill the Strategic Petroleum Reserve to reach an eventual goal of 750 million barrels. At the same time, we are also seeking to encourage nuclear power plant construction that is reliable, cost-effective, and environmentally sound. We have made much progress in energy—and by combining the technology of today with the promise and vision of American know-how tomorrow, America will continue to be in the forefront of energy production into the 21st century.
The Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 19, has designated Friday, March 20, 1987, as "National Energy Education Day" and authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this occasion.
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim Friday, March 20, 1987, as National Energy Education Day, and I call upon the people of the United States to observe this day with appropriate programs and activities to promote energy education in America's schools.
In Witness Whereof I have hereunto set my hand this twentieth day of March, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-seven, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and eleventh.

RONALD REAGAN
  