
    As part of the Biden-Harris Administration's Investing in America Tour to highlight how President Biden's economic policies are benefiting hardworking Americans across the country, First Lady Jill Biden will travel to Colorado and Michigan on Monday, April 3rd and Maine and Vermont on Wednesday, April 5th. During the visits, the First Lady will highlight how career-connected learning and workforce training programs are central to the Biden Education Pathway, and the importance of investing in these programs that are preparing high school and community college students for jobs created by the President's Investing in America agenda.
**All times are local.**
Denver, Colorado
On Sunday, April 2nd at 6:45 PM, the First Lady will arrive at Denver International Airport in Denver, CO. This arrival will be open press.
On Monday, April 3rd at 9:30 AM, the First Lady will join Governor Jared Polis at the Colorado State Capitol in Denver, CO, to highlight how state officials are prioritizing investments in community colleges and workforce training programs. This visit will be open press.Saginaw, Michigan
On Monday, April 3rd at 3:15 PM, the First Lady will arrive at MBS International Airport in Freeland, MI. This arrival will be open press.
At 3:45 PM, the First Lady will visit Delta College in Saginaw, MI, to highlight their workforce training programs. This visit will be open press.
Portland, Maine
On Wednesday, April 5th at 11:00 AM, the First Lady will arrive at Portland International Airport in Portland, ME. This arrival will be open press.
At 11:30 AM, the First Lady and U.S. Secretary of Education Miguel Cardona will join Governor Janet Mills to visit Southern Maine Community College in South Portland, ME, to highlight the college's workforce training programs and the state's investment in free community college. This visit will be open press.
Burlington, Vermont
On Wednesday, April 5th at 1:30 PM, the First Lady will arrive at Burlington International Airport in Burlington, VT. This arrival will be open press.
At 2:00 PM, the First Lady and Secretary Miguel Cardona will join Governor Phil Scott to visit BETA Technologies in Burlington, VT, an electric aerospace company working to train and connect the next generation with good-paying jobs in emerging industries like clean energy. The visit will also highlight federal and state investments in high school Career and Technical Education programs related to electric vehicles. This visit will be open press.
For media interested in covering any of the First Lady's visits, RSVP HERE.
To view the state-by-state impact the President's Investing in America agenda is having, see the fact sheets by state:

Colorado
Michigan
Maine
Vermont

  