
    WASHINGTON, DC – Today, President Obama nominated Kenneth J. Gonzales and Michael C. Ormsby to serve as United States Attorneys. Gonzales currently works as an Assistant United States Attorney for the District of New Mexico and Ormsby currently works as a partner in private practice.
"These nominees have proven to be tenacious and diligent in their pursuit of justice and I am honored to nominate them to serve their fellow Americans as U.S. Attorneys," President Obama said. "They will be distinguished public servants."
Kenneth J. Gonzales: Nominee for United States Attorney, District of New Mexico
Kenneth J. Gonzales currently works as an Assistant United States Attorney in the United States Attorney's Office for the District of New Mexico, where he has been since 1999. He also serves in the United States Army Reserve in the Office of the Judge Advocate General. He recently returned from active duty at Fort Bragg, where he served as Senior Trial Counsel. He also spends one weekend a month working as a Judge Advocate Legal Assistance Attorney, working with Army personnel on estate planning and other legal matters. Previously, Gonzales worked as a Legislative Assistant in the Office of United States Senator Jeff Bingaman. Gonzales began his legal career serving as a Law Clerk for the Honorable Joseph F. Baca of the Supreme Court of New Mexico from 1994 until 1996. Gonzales is a 1988 graduate of the University of New Mexico and a 1991 graduate of the University of New Mexico School of Law.
Michael C. Ormsby: Nominee for United States Attorney, Eastern District of Washington
Michael C. Ormsby has been a partner at K&L Gates, LLP since 1988. He advises public entities and governmental institutions on municipal finance and other legal matters. He has also served on the Spokane Public School Board and the Eastern Washington University Board of Trustees. He started his legal career as an associate attorney at Lukins & Annis P.S., where he worked from 1981 to 1988. Ormsby graduated from Gonzaga University in 1979 and the Gonzaga University School of Law in 1981.
  