
    Thank you very much, Ted. Mr. Winspisinger, Ted Klassen, Ben Bailar, Bill Usery, the two really honored guests here tonight, ladies and gentlemen:
It really is a great privilege and pleasure to have the opportunity of stopping by, and I wish that I had an opportunity to spend more time and meet each and every one of you individually.
I happen to think that what you represent is a most important ingredient in our society here today. I think all of you know, even better than I, that our American system of free collective bargaining is very uniquely deserving of this special honor it is receiving through the issuance of this stamp.
It has been my observation, as I visited and traveled throughout the world and as I have read history--as all of you and many others have--history has shown that only where there is free collective bargaining is there a free society.
The stamp's theme, "Out of conflict... accord," is one to which every citizen can subscribe. The fact that we have developed a strong, flexible collective bargaining system stands as a tribute to the millions of men and women of both labor and management who have devoted themselves to building a better and better America.
I think it is quite obvious that we need to build a better America today. We need courage, we need patience--courage to face the vital issues before us and patience to work out just solutions.
Our people cannot live on islands of self-interest. We must build bridges and communicate our agreements as well as our disagreements. Only then can we honestly solve the Nation's problems. And those problems are tremendous. Those problems need our total dedication as we move ahead.
One of the longest and sturdiest bridges in this land is collective bargaining. Today, more than ever in the past three decades, there are really three parties at each bargaining table--management on the one hand, labor on the other, and the third, our national welfare.
There is an ever-growing responsibility on two sides for restraint in the interest of the third party--our national interest. I most sincerely ask all of you here this evening, and all members of labor and management teams around 'the country, to remember that there is a silent partner sitting down with you at each bargaining session, your fellow citizens everywhere.
Let's try to remember, as we can, bearing each individual's respective responsibility, America's interests, and the search for social as well as economic progress-our objectives, yours as well as mine, are as old as human nature. Each man and each woman are the roots of his or her own survival.
So, it is so true in democracy. Democracy has within it the roots, as well as the strengths, to save itself. And that strength is national unity and a strong, strong national purpose.
Many Americans see precious little advantage in the Nation in the debate and the delay that has characterized Washington in the past several months. Rather, they are convinced that action, concerted action, is now precious to our country and may, in the long, long run, prove priceless.
It is said that an atmosphere of compromise now pervades Washington. I believe that is correct and that is good, and I would like to see that mood develop into a movement, into agreement as well as action for America.
It seems to me, as I travel around the country, as I read the mail, and as I talk to people here in Washington, Americans see delay, Americans see division, lack of concerted action, and they don't like it. They want to see some collective bargaining between the executive and the legislative branches of their Federal Government.
I have said, for example, that I am willing to compromise on a tax cut, and I repeat here this evening that I am willing and anxious to achieve some compromise in this area. However, it is also 'my observation that the American people will not stand still for a government that is standing still.
The American people, for example, want a tax cut now. I think more of us ought to start listening to America instead of listening to ourselves here in Washington.
It is my further observation that I hear America calling for action, reasonable action in a reasonable amount of time. I suggest in the tax cut area action by the end of March, this year.
It is my strong belief and deep conviction that we ought to get to work. Let us give recession and unemployment a new "one-two," the President and the Congress hitting both of them simultaneously.
It is my belief that if we do so, we will put all our workers back to work so free collective bargaining can flourish in the future.
Thank you very much.
[At this point, Postmaster General Benjamin F. Bailar presented the President with the first folio of the commemorative stamp. The President then resumed speaking.]
Thank you, Ben. Will you all sit down and let me make an observation. I was looking in the office--I have a little private office over the Oval Office--at a stamp collection that was started in our family a good many years ago.
As a matter of fact, I have a stamp collection book that was given to me by an uncle and an aunt, given to me in 1922, which they had started in Argentina when they were stationed there with an American company in 1912.
I don't know what it is worth--I am not that knowledgeable--but a collection of stamps, I think, is a great, great hobby. I have been collecting things in this area. And at some time in the future I am going to sit down and enjoy them and really get the benefit from the great causes and things that they represent.
I thank you very much, Ben, for your thoughtfulness and your expression on this occasion. This will be one thing that I will remember for a long time, and very deeply.
Thank you.
  