
    New Hampshire Leader to Co-Chair Campaign
CONCORD, NH -- At the Merrimack Diner in Manchester today, New Hampshire political powerhouse and campaign veteran, Bill Shaheen announced his decision to endorse Senator Hillary Clinton for President and serve as her New Hampshire campaign Co-chair.
"I have decided to support Senator Clinton because she has the experience, wisdom and courage our country desperately needs from our next President," said Shaheen. "What is most important to me is that Senator Clinton understands what is at stake in Iraq and she knows what it takes to get us out of there, rebuild our relationships around the world and solve our problems here at home."
Born and raised in New Hampshire, Shaheen has considerable Presidential primary experience having served as the campaign Chair for John Kerry's 2004 New Hampshire primary win, Co-chair for Jimmy Carter's 1976 New Hampshire primary win, and Chair of Al Gore's 2000 New Hampshire primary win. In 2006, Shaheen served as Co-chair of Congresswoman Carol Shea-Porter's campaign and has been instrumental in motivating and garnering grassroots supporters throughout New Hampshire for many years."
"My campaign in New Hampshire is in exactly the right hands," said Sen. Clinton. "Bill Shaheen brings so much with him and I am absolutely thrilled to have his guidance and leadership."
Shaheen was born and raised in Dover, NH. He received a Bachelor of Arts Degree from the University of New Hampshire in 1965. Upon graduation, he was commissioned as a second lieutenant in the U.S. Army and, within two years, attained the rank of Captain. In 1973, Bill graduated second in his law class, receiving a Juris Doctorate with Honors from the University of Mississippi School of Law.
"As a father of three daughters, I am honored to be part of this historic campaign that will help elect the first woman president," said Shaheen.
In 1977, President Carter appointed him as U.S. Attorney for the District of New Hampshire. At that time, he was the youngest U.S. Attorney in the country.
In 1981, Governor Hugh Gallen appointed Bill as Judge of the Durham District Court. Bill presided over the Durham District Court for fifteen years until 1996 when he resigned to focus on his wife Jeanne's three successful campaigns for Governor of New Hampshire.
"Bill Shaheen knows how to win New Hampshire primaries," said Nick Clemons, Clinton's New Hampshire State Director. "He will be pivotal to the campaign bringing a tremendous amount of excitement and energy with him."
  