
    By: Michael R. Pence, Vice President of the United States
"If all of us can take these important steps requested by the president over the next two weeks, then we can be confident that we will get through this, and we will see a better, healthier future for America."
We need the American people's help to fight coronavirus nowBy Vice President Mike PenceUSA TodayMarch 18, 2020
In the fight against the coronavirus, the Trump administration is not just taking a whole of government approach, but a whole of America approach.
…
Now is a critical time. As the president said on Monday, over the next two weeks, there are actions that every American can and should take to help us slow the spread of the coronavirus. If we succeed in limiting the number of new cases, then we can dedicate more resources to the most vulnerable and save lives.
As the president said, if you or anyone in your household is sick, then please stay home. The elderly and those with serious health conditions should also stay home and stay away from other people, even if they do not have symptoms of the coronavirus.
No one should visit a nursing home, retirement home or long-term care facility unless to provide necessary care. All Americans should avoid unnecessary travel, restaurants, bars, public food courts and gathering in groups of more than 10 people. Kids should stay home from school, and Americans who do not work in our critical infrastructure — like health care or pharmaceuticals — should work from home.
It's always a good idea to practice common sense to protect your health and the health of your family, but it's especially important right now. Use good hygiene. Wash your hands, especially after touching frequently used surfaces like doorknobs.
Use disinfectant on frequently used items and surfaces. Avoid touching your face. If you have to sneeze, then use a tissue or the inside of your elbow.
These steps might seem small, but they can make a big difference for your family, your community and our country. Stopping the spread of the coronavirus over these next two weeks can prevent many more cases in the future and even save the lives of those at risk.
…
Read the full op-ed here.
  