
    
  "Ted Cruz is Far and Away the Best Choice:...Unlike Donald Trump, Cruz Can Defeat Hillary Clinton and Win"

HOUSTON, Texas - Presidential Candidate Ted Cruz has welcomed the endorsement of Catholic Vote, a leading Catholic political advocacy organization.
Catholic Vote has more than 600,000 members nationally, in all 50 states. In 2014, their voter guides were credited with turning out the Catholic vote nationally, enabling Republicans to take back the Senate.
See Catholic Vote's statement below.
"Since the presidential race began over a year ago, many talented leaders have run the race. Of those that remain, we are convinced that Ted Cruz is far and away the best choice - and the only acceptable choice with a viable path both to win the Republican nomination this summer and the general election in November.
Ted Cruz has a consistent record of supporting pro-life causes, of supporting religious freedom, of supporting marriage, and, despite what the tabloids say, has by all trustworthy reports conducted himself as a good husband and father.
We knew at the outset of this process we could never support Hillary Clinton. It did not take us long to definitively conclude we could not support Donald Trump. The field is now clear enough for us to unambiguously support Ted Cruz.
The media wants you to believe that Donald Trump's nomination is inevitable, but as usual, they're wrong! In every state that has voted so far, Trump has failed to win a majority of votes. Trump has amassed a little more than 8 million votes so far. But almost 13 million votes have been cast for other candidates in the race - nearly 5 million more!
Historically, candidates who fail to achieve a majority of delegates going into a contested convention do not win the nomination.
John Kasich has only won his home state, has lost every other contest, and continues to raise doubts about his commitment to the things we believe are foundational. It is impossible for him to win enough delegates during the primaries to secure the nomination.
The next state in the nomination contest is Tuesday, April 5th: the winner-takes-all Wisconsin primary. The two most recent polls show Ted Cruz with a slim lead over Donald Trump. This could be the state that changes everything. The beginning of the end for Trump and the surge Ted Cruz needs.
...Catholics must unite around Ted Cruz now."
  