
    Verona, PA - Republican Presidential candidate Rick Santorum issued the following statement about President Obama's new greenhouse gas emissions draft regulation - which, according to at least one industry expert, "effectively bans new coal plants".
The first-of-its-kind EPA rule would require new coal-fired power plants to cut their carbon dioxide emissions, essentially forcing any new plants to capture and bury their emissions underground. While today's rule would apply to new power plants, EPA Administrator Lisa Jackson has discussed the possibility of forcing carbon limits on existing power plants, saying it would take place after an "extensive" and transparent public process.
Santorum said, "Despite Congress rejecting the President's cap-and-trade plan, now Barack Obama is trying to force his job-crushing agenda down the throats of the American people through regulations disguised as environmental protections.
President Obama's environmental agenda - kills American jobs, creates higher energy prices and weakens our nation's security. America is the Saudi Arabia of coal and we could create our own energy if the government would let us. Instead, Barack Obama would rather pick winners and losers in the energy field, and that leads to taxpayer-funded green-energy boondoggles like Solyndra. America's energy producers are already forced to work around the Obama Administration by producing energy on state and private lands, and the President continues to stonewall on the Keystone XL pipeline despite his photo-ops and misleading rhetoric.
"While this is an alarming attack on American jobs and our domestic energy industry, what should be even more disturbing for Republicans is that President Obama's environmental regulatory officials are some of the same advisors who drafted Mitt Romney's cap-and-trade plan in Massachusetts. As with Obamacare, President Obama is once again taking a play out of Mitt Romney's big government playbook."
Rick Santorum has vowed to immediately rescind all of President Obama's regulations that cost the economy more than $100 million per year, and immediately approve the Keystone XL pipeline. To view Rick Santorum's full plan to unleash America's Energy, click here: http://www.ricksantorum.com/unleashing-america%E2%80%99s-domestic-energy
  