
    Last week, the six leading organizations representing state and local governments at the federal level—the United States Conference of Mayors, National League of Cities, National Association of Counties, National Conference of State Legislatures, International City/County Management Association, and The Council of State Governments—joined the National Governors Association in calling on Republicans and Democrats in Congress to prevent a default.
The groups wrote: "Failure on the part of the Treasury Department to meet its federal obligations would create significant uncertainty and risk to American citizens, government services, and global financial markets. We call on Congress to increase or suspend the debt limit as soon as possible."
President Biden's proposed budget will cut the deficit by nearly $3 trillion over the next 10 years by making the rich pay their fair share and cutting spending on special interests. In stark contrast, Congressional Republicans continue to threaten economic catastrophe with default in order to secure tax cuts for the wealthy and large corporations, and reckless cuts to critical programs that American seniors and families count on.
Read full statement below:
The United States Conference of Mayors: State & Local Government Associations Support NGA's Call for Bipartisan Solution on Debt Limit[Sara Durr, 3/9/2023]
Today, the six leading organizations representing state and local governments at the federal level—the United States Conference of Mayors, National League of Cities, National Association of Counties, National Conference of State Legislatures, International City/County Management Association, and The Council of State Governments—concurred with the recent statement of the National Governors Association (NGA) calling for a bipartisan solution to the impending national debt limit. NGA's statement can be found here and below:
"Our nation's Governors call on Congress and the Administration to work together to ensure a bipartisan solution to address the U.S. statutory debt ceiling. Failure on the part of the Treasury Department to meet its federal obligations would create significant uncertainty and risk to American citizens, government services, and global financial markets.
"We call on Congress to increase or suspend the debt limit as soon as possible. And we call on both the Administration and Congress to consider serious long-term reforms that will reduce the national debt and put the country on more sustainable fiscal footing. States and territories succeed when there is certainty and stability in federal resources."
  