
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate three individuals, appoint two individuals and designate one individual to serve in his Administration.
The President intends to nominate Philip T. Reeker, of the District of Columbia, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Macedonia. Mr. Reeker currently serves as Counselor for Public Affairs at the United States Embassy in Iraq. Prior to this, he served as Deputy Chief of Mission at the United States Embassy in Hungary. Previously, he served as a Deputy Spokesman at the State Department. Earlier in his career, Mr. Reeker served as the Public Affairs Officer in Skopje, Macedonia. Mr. Reeker received his bachelor's degree from Yale University and his master's degree from the American Graduate School of International Management.
The President intends to nominate Christopher R. Wall, of Virginia, to be Assistant Secretary of Commerce (Export Administration). Mr. Wall currently serves as the Senior International Trade Partner at Pillsbury Winthrop Shaw Pittman, LLP. Prior to this, he served as Managing Partner at Pillsbury Winthrop Shaw Pittman, LLP. Mr. Wall received his bachelor's degrees from Yale College and Oxford University. He received his JD from the University of Virginia.
The President intends to nominate Miguel R. San Juan, of Texas, to be United States Executive Director of the Inter-American Development Bank, for a three-year term. Mr. San Juan currently serves as Senior Vice President of the International Trade and Economic Development Division of the Greater Houston Partnership. Prior to this, he served as Director of American Partners in Trade. Earlier in his career, he served as President of the World Trade Division at the Greater Houston Partnership. Mr. San Juan received his bachelor's degree from the University of Houston.
The President intends to appoint Peter Pace, of Virginia, to be a Member of the President's Intelligence Advisory Board.
The President intends to appoint James B. Peake, of the District of Columbia, to be a Member of the Advisory Council to the Board of Governors of the American Red Cross.
The President intends to designate Peter Schaumber, of the District of Columbia, to be Chairman of the National Labor Relations Board.
  