
    Members of Congress
Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-KY): "In selecting CIA Director Mike Pompeo as his nominee for Secretary of State, the president has called upon a brilliant, tough-minded leader to guide our diplomatic corps through challenging days ahead. I have every confidence in Mike. He has earned the trust of the career officers at the CIA, and I am certain he will be an excellent Secretary of State."
Speaker of the House Paul Ryan (R-WI): "I welcome my good friend, Mike Pompeo, as the next Secretary of State. Mike is razor-sharp, a dedicated patriot, and possesses the type of experience that makes him an outstanding choice to be our next top diplomat."
House Majority Whip Steve Scalise (R-LA): "I'm excited that President Trump has named my friend and former House colleague Mike Pompeo to be our next Secretary of State. Mike understands America's challenges and opportunities in the world, and will serve President Trump and America well in this important role!"
Sen. Tom Cotton (R-AR): "Mike Pompeo is an outstanding selection as our next Secretary of State. Mike's deep understanding of world affairs, his clear-eyed view of the threats to our national security, and his key relationships with world leaders make him an excellent choice to be our top diplomat."
Sen. John McCain (R-AZ): "I have known Mike Pompeo for many years and believe he will continue to serve our nation honorably as Secretary of State, if confirmed."
Sen. Cory Gardner (R-CO): "I served alongside Mike Pompeo in the House and have confidence in his ability to lead the @StateDept. I look forward to working with him in his new role."
Sen. Marco Rubio (R-FL): "I know Mike Pompeo well. He is an excellent choice. His experience as CIA Director, an Army officer, and a congressman, and his proven leadership on national security matters give him unique qualifications to lead the State Department at this critical juncture. I will enthusiastically support his nomination and am hopeful he can be confirmed quickly."
Sen. Jim Risch (R-ID): "Mike Pompeo is a proven defender of U.S. national security interests, and I have full confidence in his ability to lead the State Department as well as he has led the CIA."
Sen. Todd Young (R-IN): "Mike Pompeo is smart and experienced, and it was a pleasure to work with him when we served together in the House of Representatives."
Sen. Jerry Moran (R-KS): "Kansans are proud to have Mike Pompeo selected as Secretary of State, and I look forward to working with him to advance our interests around the globe."
Sen. Pat Roberts (R-KS): "Mike Pompeo has always answered the call to serve. Shown by his leadership as CIA Director and 4th District Congressman, Kansans and all Americans can be proud he will lead our nation as Secretary of State. His military and intelligence background will serve him well to lead the State Department, and I look forward to working with my Kansas colleague in this new capacity."
Sen. Roy Blunt (R-MO): "I look forward to working with Mike Pompeo, who I've gotten to know well during his time as CIA director."
Sen. Steve Daines (R-MT): "Mike Pompeo is a great choice for Secretary of State. I look forward to working with him."
Sen. Rob Portman (R-OH): "Director Pompeo is well regarded and I look forward to working with him."
Sen. Pat Toomey (R-PA): "I look forward to working with Director Pompeo once he is confirmed by the Senate."
Sen. Lindsey Graham (R-SC): "I cannot think of a better choice for our new Secretary of State than Mike Pompeo. As Director of the CIA, Mike has made contacts throughout the world and has come up with aggressive policies to defend our homeland."
Sen. Orrin Hatch (R-UT): "These are complex and challenging times on the world stage, and I have full confidence that Mr. Pompeo is up to the task of serving as America's senior diplomat."
Rep. Vern Buchanan (R-FL): "CIA Director Mike Pompeo is very capable and should do a great job in his new role."
Rep. Ron DeSantis (R-FL): "Mike Pompeo will do a great job as Secretary of State. He's smart, tough, and works his tail off. Congrats to Mike and hats off to @POTUS for making an excellent choice!"
Rep. Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL): "Mike Pompeo is a man of principle I am glad to call a friend from our time in the House together. He has served our country well as CIA Director, and I am looking forward to continue working with him to promote #humanrights and #democracy across the world as Secretary of State."
Rep. Tom Rooney (R-FL): "Mike is a superb pick for our next Secretary of State and a great American. I know he will serve our country well."
Rep. Ted Yoho (R-FL): "I look forward to working with the new Secretary of State Mike Pompeo to advance America's foreign policy goals."
Rep. Randy Hultgren (R-IL): "...I look forward to my former colleague Mike Pompeo taking charge at @StateDept to tackle the many global challenges we face."
Rep. Adam Kinzinger (R-IL): "An excellent choice for Secretary of State. Mike understands our role in the international community & will lead us strongly at the @StateDept."
Rep. Susan Brooks (R-IN): "I am confident Mike will serve the United States in this new position as he always has, with dignity and honor, and I look forward to his swift confirmation in the Senate."
Rep. Luke Messer (R-IN): "Mike Pompeo will be an excellent Secretary of State. Mike has the background, experience and tenacity needed for the important role. I'm proud to call Mike a good friend and I commend President Trump for this choice. I urge the U.S. senate to quickly confirm him."
Rep. Todd Rokita (R-IN): "Director Pompeo is a courageous leader and has an impeccable record fighting for our country, and as Secretary of State, he will be a phenomenal representative for President Trump's America First foreign policy to the rest of the world."
Rep. Ralph Abraham (R-LA): "A very bold & positive move by Pres. Trump in appointing Mike Pompeo to the Sec. of State and Gina Haspel as CIA Director."
Rep. Billy Long (R-MO): "We were next door neighbors in Rayburn - brilliant, hard working, great personality - we came in Congress together - Kansan #MikePompeo will make a great Secretary of State!"
Rep. Richard Hudson (R-NC): "Mike Pompeo is an incredible choice to serve as our nation's top diplomat. He has a solid track-record of standing up for America's priorities and a clear understanding of the threats and opportunities we face."
Rep. Robert Pittenger (R-NC): "@realDonaldTrump choice of Mike Pompeo as Secretary of State will provide him a clear assessment of prevailing threats and constructive analysis of how to secure the US. Pompeo is an exceptionally bright individual who will effectively articulate America's positions."
Rep. Dan Donovan (R-NY): "I had the pleasure of serving briefly with Mike Pompeo in Congress. He's done a great job as Director of the CIA and will continue to serve our nation well as Secretary of State."
Rep. Pete King (R-NY): "Mike Pompeo is an outstanding choice for Secretary of State. Experienced, dedicated and a true patriot."
Rep. Lee Zeldin (R-NY): "Director Mike Pompeo was #1 in his class at West Point, an exceptional CIA Director & Member of the House and a good friend who I have a tremendous amount of respect for. There is great potential for Mike to be one of the greatest Secretaries of State in American history!"
Rep. Tom Cole (R-OK): "Mike's performance as CIA Director has been exemplary. I believe that he will be an exceptional Secretary of State. I look forward to working with him in his new capacity."
Rep. Greg Walden (R-OR): "Mike Pompeo is a very talented public servant.... He'll do a great job as Secretary of State."
Rep. Lou Barletta (R-PA): "Mike Pompeo is an exceptional choice for Sec. of State. Director Pompeo is a good friend of mine and has the first rate knowledge to overcome all challenges."
Rep. Trey Gowdy (R-SC): "Mike Pompeo is smart, hardworking, and uniquely qualified to serve as our next Secretary of State. From his time at West Point, to the private sector, to Congress, and most recently as the Director of the CIA, Mike has excelled at every responsibility given to him. The quality of his service is matched only by his commitment to the safety and betterment of our country. I look forward to his confirmation as Secretary of State."
Rep. Marsha Blackburn (R-TN): "Mike and I worked together for several years in the House and on the Energy and Commerce Committee. I know him to be a man of integrity. He did a tremendous job protecting our country from foreign threats as Director of the CIA. He has impeccable leadership skills and will represent our country well as head of the State Department."
Rep. Kevin Brady (R-TX): "Mike Pompeo is a former House colleague who has worked tirelessly as CIA director to keep our country safe and secure."
Rep. Michael McCaul (R-TX): "I have personally known Director Pompeo for years and traveled with him to some of the world's terrorist hot spots - he is a true leader on U.S. foreign policy."
Rep. Scott Taylor (R-VA): "Compliments to Mike Pompeo, who has proven to be a leader both in Congress and as the Director of the CIA. He will no doubt continue to serve the country well in this new capacity as Secretary of State."
Cabinet Members
United States Ambassador to the United Nations Nikki Haley: "Congratulations to my friend and soon to be Secretary of State Mike Pompeo! Great decision by the President."
Director of the Office of Management and Budget Mick Mulvaney: "Mike is a tremendous choice. He has earned the respect of his colleagues in Congress, at the CIA, and within the Administration. And he has done that the right way: by being really good at his job. He'll make an excellent Secretary of State."
Director of National Intelligence Daniel Coats: "I also would like to thank CIA Director Mike Pompeo for his Intelligence Community service and to congratulate him on his pending nomination to serve as Secretary of State. I wish the very best for him as he assumes the important role of Secretary of State. I look forward to continuing to work with him in this new role."
  