
    The President met today with Cuban-American leaders at the White House, including civil society advocates, faith leaders, and representatives from the private sector, in advance of his trip to Cuba. From the beginning of his Administration, President Obama has consulted closely with the Cuban-American community about his Cuba policy, and wanted to hear directly from community leaders about his upcoming trip to Cuba. The President reviewed our ongoing efforts to normalize relations with Cuba. The President highlighted the recent regulatory changes made by the Departments of the Treasury and Commerce, and the impact those changes would have on the ability of Americans to travel to Cuba and engage directly with the Cuban people. He also reiterated that while in Havana, he will meet with the Cuban government, Cuban entrepreneurs, and Cuban independent civil society. He emphasized that improving the lives of the Cuban people is a central focus of our policy, including access to increased opportunity, connectivity, and our enduring support for human rights -- including respect for the right to speak freely, peacefully assembly, and associate. The President noted that he will continue to consult closely with the Cuban-Americans, who represent our values and shared aspirations for a better future for the American and Cuban people.
The following individuals attended the meeting:
1. Emilio Estefan, Founder, Estefan Enterprises Inc.
2. Mike Fernandez, Founder, MBF Healthcare Partners
3. Angela Freyre, General Counsel, Export-Import Bank
4. Felice Gorordo, Founder, Roots of Hope
5. Carlos Gutierrez, Partner, Albright Stonebridge Group
6. Father Fernando Heria, Miami Catholic Priest and Judge of the Tribunal to Consenso Cubano, St. Brendan Catholic Church
7. Ric Herrero, Executive Director, #CubaNow
8. Consuelo Isaacson, President, Friends of Caritas Cubana
9. Jorge Mas, Chairman and Co-Founder, MasTec
10. Alejandro Mayorkas, Deputy Secretary, Department of Homeland Security
11. John McIntire, Chairman, Cuba Emprende Foundation
12. Ralph Patino, Founder of Patino & Associates
13. Ariel Pereda, Chair, Engage Cuba Business Council
14. Carlos Saladrigas, Chairman, Cuba Study Group
15. Micho Spring, Chair of Global Corporate Practice, Weber Shandwick
16. Silvia Wilhelm, Executive Director, Puentos Cubanos
  