
    "Russia is not a friendly character on the world stage and for this president to be looking for greater flexibility, where he doesn't have to answer to the American people in his relations with Russia is very, very troubling, very alarming. I'm very, very concerned; I think the American people are going to feel the same way. This is a president who was telling us one thing and doing something else and is planning on doing something even more frightening." — Gov. Mitt Romney
"The Situation Room"
CNN
March 26, 2012
Click Here To Watch Mitt Romney Discuss President Obama's Comments
WOLF BLITZER, CNN: "Alright, in case you didn't hear it, this is my last election, after my election, I have more flexibility. That is a factual statement that the President is making. If he doesn't have to worry about getting reelected, he doesn't have to worry so much about domestic politics. Is there anything wrong, when it comes to national security issues, to be saying something like that to the Russian leader?"
MITT ROMNEY: "Yeah. There's something terribly wrong with that. It is alarming; it is troubling, the agreement that the President put in place with regards to nuclear weapons is one which I find very, very troubling already. The decision to withdraw our missile defense sites from Poland put us in greater jeopardy in my view; the actions he's taken so far which he says are to reset relations with Russia have not worked out at all. Russia continues to support Syria, supports Iran. Has fought us with the crippling sanctions we wanted to have the world put in place against Iran. Russia is not a friendly character on the world stage and for this president to be looking for greater flexibility, where he doesn't have to answer to the American people in his relations with Russia is very, very troubling, very alarming. I'm very, very concerned; I think the American people are going to feel the same way. This is a president who was telling us one thing and doing something else and is planning on doing something even more frightening."
  