
    The following list does not include promotions of members of the Uniformed Services, nominations to the Service Academies, or nominations of Foreign Service officers.
Withdrawn March 11
Linda Colvin Rhodes, of Pennsylvania, to be Deputy Commissioner of Social Security for the term expiring January 19, 2001, which was sent to the Senate on August 10, 1995.
Submitted March 12
David H. Shinn, of Washington, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Ethiopia.
Submitted March 14
Robert E. Anderson, of Minnesota, to be a member of the Board of Regents of the Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences for a term expiring June 20, 2001, vice Clarence S. Avery, term expired.
Lonnie R. Bristow, of California, to be a member of the Board of Regents of the Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences for a term expiring June 20, 2001, vice Gopal Sivaraj Pal, term expired.
Shirley Ledbetter Jones, of Arkansas, to be a member of the Board of Regents of the Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences for a term expiring May 1, 2001, vice George Tryon Harding IV, term expired.
Susan Bass Levin, of New Jersey, to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Harry S Truman Scholarship Foundation for a term expiring December 10, 1999, vice Richard C. Hackett.
Kevin Emanuel Marchman, of Colorado, to be an Assistant Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, vice Joseph Shuldiner.
Submitted March 15
Alan Greenspan, of New York, to be Chairman of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System for a term of 4 years (reappointment).
Laurence H. Meyer, of Missouri, to be a member of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System for the unexpired term of 14 years from 2/1/88, vice John P. LaWare, resigned.
Alice M. Rivlin, of Pennsylvania, to be a member of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System for a term of 14 years from February 1, 1996, vice Alan S. Blinder, resigned.
Alice M. Rivlin, of Pennsylvania, to be Vice Chairman of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System for a term of 4 years, vice Alan S. Blinder, resigned.
  