
    Pool Reports by Nikki Schwab, Daily Mail 



Sent:
Reports:




March 19, 202110:24

VPOTUS Travel Pool Report No. 1 - departure
Good morning from JBA, I'll be your print pooler today for Vice President Kamala Harris' trip to Atlanta. It's a windy 41 degrees here on the tarmac.
Harris' motorcade pulled up to Air Force Two at 10:21 a.m.
She was greeted by Lt. Col. Neil Senkowski, VP's office said. Harris, in a navy suit, stopped to briefly chat, she waved to the pool and boarded AF2 at 10:22 a.m.
She ignored a question about what her message to the Asian-American community will be.
We'll be wheels up shortly.



March 19, 202111:56

VPOTUS Travel Pool Report No. 2 - arrival at Dobbins
Air Force Two was wheels up at 10:34 a.m.
We landed at Dobbins Air Reserve Base at 11:50 a.m.
Symone Sanders is on today's trip.
We're holding on Air Force Two for the time being.



March 19, 202113:02

VPOTUS Travel Pool Report No. 3 - motorcading to AF1
Vice President Harris disembarked Air Force Two at 12:59 p.m. She ignored shouted questions about how the president was feeling after his brief stumble. She got in her SUV at 1 p.m.
She's motorcading the very short distance over to Air Force One, where your POTUS poolers will have eyes on her.
And here's a full list of AF2 travelers from the VP's office:
Tina Flournoy, Chief of StaffSymone Sanders, Senior Advisor and Chief SpokespersonRohini Kosoglu, Domestic Policy Advisor to the Vice PresidentJosh Hsu, Counsel to the Vice PresidentVince Evans, Deputy Director of the Office of Public Engagement and Intergovernmental AffairsOpal Vadhan, Personal Aide
More TK



March 19, 202113:41

VPOTUS Pool Report No. 4
Vice President Harris' Osprey touched down around 1:31 p.m. to DeKalb-Peachtree Airport.
Your VP pool was in a separate Osprey. Your print pooler did not see her get into the SUV, but the eagle-eyed photogs did.
Her motorcade started rolling at 1:37 p.m.
More TK



March 19, 202113:52

VPOTUS Pool Report No. 5 - CDC arrival
Vice President Harris' motorcade pulled into the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention at 1:48 p.m. Pool briefly glimpsed Harris heading into the building.
Pockets of bystanders lined the motorcade route. One man had an "Infertility" sign - unclear if that was directed at Biden or Harris.
Your VPOTUS pool is holding in the van.



March 19, 202114:08

VPOTUS Pool Report No. 6 - she's speaking (later)
Vice President Harris' office passes this along:
The VP will be speaking today and will introduce the President following the AAPI meeting.



March 19, 202114:51

VPOTUS Pool Report No. 7 - Emory
The POTUS and VPOTUS motorcade was rolling from the CDC at 2:40 p.m. We arrived on Emory's campus at 2:48 p.m.



March 19, 202119:10

VPOTUS Pool Report No. 8 - color from Emory's Quad
VPOTUS remains inside and pool is still holding outdoors in the Quad in the center of Emory's campus.
Here's some color from the scene:
By the time Harris and Biden were about to speak hundreds of students stood around the perimeter, hoping to get a peek. Your pooler spotted Sen. Jon Ossoff, whose appearance attracted a number of high-pitched screams from students, and also Rep. Lucy McBath. Atlanta's Mayor Keisha Lance Bottoms was spotted leaving before the remarks began. She walked outside with the administration's Cedric Richmond.
As members of the POTUS pool walked out of the building, a cheer broke out – only for the students to discover the reporters were not Biden or Harris. A "give us Biden" chant then started.
When Stacey Abrams walked through the Quad to her meeting at 6:30 p.m., the crowd also screamed.
Ossoff and Warnock walked out together and walked to one side of the Quad, where they got into position to take about a dozen selfies at once. They then walked to another side and addressed the students.
Warnock: "We just wanted to say thank you to the people of Georgia for placing your trust in Jon and myself."
"Every day of the week Georgia is on our mind."
"Know that as you see checks being placed in people's accounts and shots in their arms and an expanded child tax credit, expanded earned income tax credit. $2 billion for Georgia to finally expand Medicaid. Healthcare - $5 billion for farmers of color. Know that as this agenda goes forward, it's because of Georgia."
"One last thing, you stood up in a historic way in November and in January and you see how some politicians are responding. They don't like the outcome of the election so they're trying to change the rules. We're going to do everything in our power that they don't disenfranchise millions of voters all across this country. But for every young person who's ever wondered whether or not your vote counts, you should have no doubt in your mind now. If your vote didn't matter they wouldn't be working so hard to try and stop it."
Ossoff: "All of your activism, all of your energy, all the doors you knocked on, all the phone calls that you made, everything that you did to secure victory has made a huge difference in millions of lives across this country. Thank you so much and much love."
They didn't answer reporters' questions about their discussions with Harris and Biden.



March 19, 202119:58

VPOTUS Pool Report No. 9 - departure
The joint motorcade pulled out of Emory's campus at 7:33 p.m. The VP's office said she's riding with President Biden in his limo back to the Peachtree DeKalb airport.
Pooler spotted one homemade Biden sign and a smattering of folks with their phones up on the motorcade route. A group of 100 or so people was gathered near the airport, several with official Biden-Harris campaign signs.
Motorcade pulled into the airport at 7:51 p.m.
Pool saw the SUV pull up to Marine Two at 7:54 but did not glimpse VPOTUS. We're taking off in the Opreys momentarily.



March 19, 202120:14

VPOTUS Pool Report No. 10 - departing Dobbins
Marine Two, which is an Osprey, took off after your pool, which lifted off at 8:02 p.m.
Pool did not see Marine Two land at Dobbins Air Reserve Base, but Harris walked off at 8:12 p.m.
She's walking across the tarmac to Air Force Two and got on board at 8:13 p.m.
Wheels up to JBA shortly.



March 19, 2021
[APP Note: Report #11 does not exist or was not received by the APP.]


March 19, 202122:08

VPOTUS Pool Report No. 12 - arrival at JBA
Air Force Two took off at 8:32 p.m.
We landed at JBA at 9:52 p.m.
VPOTUS made a quick OTR to the back of the plane.
Vice President Harris disembarked AF2 at 10:05 p.m. She's wearing a long navy coat. She hopped into her black SUV at 10:06 p.m. She's headed back to Blair House.
It's been a pleasure being your pooler today - have a wonderful and safe weekend!




  