
    Verona, PA - The Rick Santorum for President Campaign is proud to announce that Idaho State Treasurer Ron Crane has endorsed Rick Santorum for President.
Ron Crane said: "Rick Santorum represents the values that are important to me and my family. His unwavering, principled stand for traditional family values, his economic plan for creating jobs, balancing the budget and slashing the deficit and his support for a strong national defense make him the perfect man for the job. His views appeal to me as a conservative. I am proud to stand with him in his bid for the White House!"
As Treasurer, Mr. Crane is a member of the State Board of Canvassers, administrator of the Local Government Investment Pool , custodian of Idaho Endowment Funds, custodian of Worker's Compensation security deposits made by insurance companies, administrator of the Underground Storage Tank Upgrade Assistance Account, and is an ex-officio advisor to the Idaho Housing and Finance Association. He is chairman of the College Savings Plan advisory board, Chairman of the Idaho Bond Bank Authority and Chairman of the Idaho Credit Rating Enhancement Committee . He received a national award from the US Small Business Administration for innovative programs that provide capital to Idaho small businesses by founding the Prime Rate Loan Program know as " Idaho Prime ".
Prior to his election as Treasurer in 1998, Mr. Crane served 16 years in the Idaho House of Representatives. While there, he chaired the House State Affairs Committee for 4 years and the Business Committee for 7 years. He also served as co-chairman of the Interim Committee on Electrical Restructuring. During his public service, he received the Guardian of Small Business Award from NFIB and the Legislative Champion of the Family Award.
Mr. Crane started his own successful business, Crane Alarm Service, in 1979. Today, Crane Alarm is one of the oldest and largest alarm companies in Idaho. He is a member of the Nampa and Caldwell, Idaho Chambers of Commerce, was a founding member of the Lifeline Crisis Pregnancy Center, and serves on the board of trustees for Nampa Christian Schools.
Mr. Crane has been married to his wife, Cheryl, since 1969. They have six children, four girls and two boys, and seven grandchildren. The Cranes reside in Nampa, Idaho.
  