
    Pool Reports by Brett Samuels, The Hill 



Sent:
Reports:




March 17, 202310:36

In-town pool report #1: Gathering for Oval Office spray
Good morning from the White House. It is Friday. It is St. Patrick's Day. Niall Horan of One Direction/solo career/The Voice fame is slated to perform here later. I'll be your print pooler for today's festivities.
Pool is gathering for President Biden's Oval Office meeting with Leo Varadkar, the Taoiseach of Ireland. The Taoiseach arrived at the White House at 10:30 and entered the West Wing.
Full schedule below for everyone's awareness, reach out with any questions.
10:30 AM THE PRESIDENT holds a bilateral meeting with H.E. Leo Varadkar, Taoiseach of IrelandOval OfficeIn-House Pool Spray (Gather 10:20 AM – Brady Press Briefing Room)
11:45 AM THE PRESIDENT departs the White House en route to the Friends of Ireland Caucus St. Patrick's Day LuncheonSouth GroundsIn-Town Travel Pool (Gather 11:25 AM – Palm Room Doors) 
12:00 PM THE PRESIDENT attends the Friends of Ireland Caucus St. Patrick's Day LuncheonUnited States Capitol Building, Washington, DCIn-Town Travel Pool Spray
5:00 PM THE PRESIDENT hosts H.E. Leo Varadkar, Taoiseach of Ireland, for a Shamrock presentation and reception at the White House; THE VICE PRESIDENT and THE SECOND GENTLEMAN attendEast RoomPooled for TV and Pre-Credentialed Media (Gather 4:45 PM – Palm Room Doors) [RSVP here by 7:00 AM]
6:15 PM Out-of-Town Pool Call TimeJoint Base Andrews Overhang
7:30 PM THE PRESIDENT departs the White House en route to New Castle, DelawareSouth LawnOpen Press (Gather 7:20 PM – Palm Room Doors)
8:25 PM THE PRESIDENT arrives in New Castle, DelawareDelaware Air National Guard Base, New Castle, DelawareOut-of-Town Pool



March 17, 202311:01

In-town pool report #2: Oval Spray
Pool entered the Oval Office at 10:47a.m.
President Biden and Leo Varadkar were seated side by side. POTUS, wearing a green tie with white dots, thanked Varadkar for standing together with Ukraine and spoke of the traditions and long-standing friendship between Ireland and the US.
Varadkar thanked Biden for the invitation to the White House and for his support leading up to the Windsor Framework agreement.
On Ukraine, Varadkar said: "I never thought we'd see a war like this happen in Europe in my lifetime."
On a visit by Biden to Ireland, Varadkar said: "Really looking forward to your visit" and promised to "roll out the red carpet."
Biden did not respond to attempts to ask questions. He and the PM cracked a smile as reporters were repeatedly thanked and asked to exit by staff.
Pool was ushered out of the room at 10:52.



March 17, 202311:04

In-town pool report #3: Bilat attendees
From the White House:
The President is participating in a bilateral meeting with H.E. Leo Varadkar, Taoiseach of Ireland.
U.S. ManifestThe PresidentT.H. Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security AffairsT.H. Steve Ricchetti, Assistant to the President and Counselor to the PresidentT.H. Jen O'Malley Dillon, Assistant to the President and Deputy Chief of StaffT.H. Mike Donilon, Assistant to the President and Senior Advisor to the PresidentT.H. Claire Cronin, Ambassador of the United States to IrelandT.H. Karen Donfried, Assistant Secretary of State for European and Eurasian AffairsT.H. Amanda Sloat, Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for Europe, National Security Council
Ireland ManifestH.E. Leo Varadkar, Taoiseach of IrelandH.E. Geraldine Byrne Nason, Ambassador of Ireland to the United StatesMr. John Callinan, Secretary General, Government of IrelandMs. Helen Blake, Assistant Secretary General, Department of the TaoiseachMs. Clare Mungovan, Special Advisor to the Taoiseach, Office of the TaoiseachMr. Matthew Lynch, Special Advisor to the Taoiseach, Office of the TaoiseachMs. Orla Keane, Deputy Chief of Mission, Embassy of IrelandMs. Cliona Doyle, Press Advisor to the Taoiseach



March 17, 202311:25

In-town pool report #4: Fuller quotes from Oval spray
Fuller quotes below, as always check against the transcript. Here's video link for reference:
https://www.c-span.org/video/?526789-1/president-biden-meets-irish-prime...
Biden: "It's good to have you back in the Oval Office, Taoiseach. It's a big day in my grandparents' household, our household, big day here. And I know a bigger day at home. But thank you very much.
(after quoting Yates) "We've been great friends. You've been a great friend to the United States, and Ireland and the United States share great friendship and long, long traditions.
"We have a joke – we have an event I used to do as vice president and is now done up at the Hill, which is we invite all the friends of Ireland, all the Irish members of Congress, and those who wish they were."
"I want to thank you on a substantive matter for standing together with Ukraine. It means a great deal, speaking out against Russian aggression, and our deepening economic ties. We have a lot to talk about."
"I spent some time with the Prime Minister of Great Britain. And I'm very much, very strongly supported the Windsor Framework, which I know you do, too. Maybe we'll get a chance to talk about that. And, for us, the 25th anniversary of the Good Friday Agreement is something that a very good friend of mine devoted a lot of his life to, George Mitchell… So I'm looking forward to meeting you and having our celebration together, and, lot to talk about."
From the Taoiseach: "So first of all, thanks so much for inviting me to be here. I really appreciate the invitation. I really want to thank you for your help and support and understanding for our position on Brexit in recent years. It really made a difference. And we've got to a good place now, I think, with the Windsor Framework where we can have an agreement that lasts, which is important for Northern Ireland, and also important for British-Irish and European relations.
"I really profoundly want to thank you and America for your leadership in relation to Ukraine. I never thought we'd see a war like this happen in Europe in my lifetime. America is at its best when it stands with its European partners to defend freedom and democracy. And thank you for that, and I know you're staying the course with us, and we will stand with Ukraine for as long as it takes."
"And also really looking forward to your visit. I promise you that we're going to roll out the red carpet and it's going to be a visit like no other. Everyone's excited about it already. We're going to have great crowds who would love to see you, and look forward to walking about some of the details a bit later."
Biden: "I look forward to that."



March 17, 202311:41

In-town travel pool report #5: Gather for Capitol departure
Pool has loaded into vans for President Biden's trip down the street to the Capitol for the St. Patrick's Day luncheon.



March 17, 202312:10

In-town pool report #6: Rolling for Capitol
Motorcade is rolling from the White House for the Capitol luncheon at 12:09 p.m.
From the White House:
Traveling with the President via motorcade en route to the Friends of Ireland Caucus St. Patrick's Day Luncheon:
Jeffrey Zients, Assistant to the President & Chief of StaffSteve Ricchetti, Assistant to the President & Counselor to the PresidentLouisa Terrell, Assistant to the President & Director of the Office of Legislative AffairsOlivia Dalton, Deputy Assistant to the President & Principal Deputy Press Secretary & Senior AdvisorAshley Jones, Deputy Assistant to the President & House Legislative Affairs LiaisonJohn McCarthy, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the Counselor to the PresidentAshley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office OperationsTravis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip DirectorRyan Harper, Special Assistant to the President & National Security Council Deputy Chief of Staff



March 17, 202312:26

In-town pool report #7: Capitol arrival
Motorcade arrived at the Capitol at 12:16 p.m. after an uneventful and brief ride. Pool is now holding in Statuary Hall.
From the White House:
Participating in a greet with the President upon arrival at the United States Capitol Building:
H.E. Leo Varadkar, Taoiseach of IrelandSpeaker of the House of Representatives Kevin McCarthy (CA-20)Rep. Richard Neal (MA-01)Rep. Mike Kelly (PA-16)William McFarland, Sergeant-at-Arms, House of Representatives



March 17, 202313:12

In-town pool report #8: Luncheon spray
Pool was escorted into the room at 1:09 p.m. Speaker McCarthy opened the proceedings by thanking for Speaker Pelosi for being here.
The event is being live-streamed by the White House here: https://www.youtube.com/live/f0mxqTkotiw?feature=share
Additional details from the White House:
The President is attending the Friends of Ireland Caucus St. Patrick's Day Luncheon.
Other AttendeesH.E. Leo Varadkar, Taoiseach of IrelandSpeaker of the House of Representatives Kevin McCarthy (CA-20)Rep. Richard Neal (MA-01)Rep. Mike Kelly (PA-16)Jeffrey Zients, Assistant to the President & Chief of StaffSteve Ricchetti, Assistant to the President & Counselor to the PresidentLouisa Terrell, Assistant to the President & Director of the Office of Legislative AffairsAshley Jones, Deputy Assistant to the President & House Legislative Affairs LiaisonJoe Kennedy, Special Envoy to Northern Ireland for Economic Affairs, Department of StateJohn McCarthy, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the Counselor to the PresidentChris Heaton-Harris MP, United Kingdom Secretary of State for Northern IrelandDr. Jayne Brady, Head of Northern Ireland Civil ServiceOther Members of CongressIrish diplomats and stakeholdersMembers of the Irish community
Run of ShowSpeaker of the House of Representatives Kevin McCarthy (CA-20)The PresidentH.E. Leo Varadkar, Taoiseach of IrelandMusical performance by Cherish the Ladies



March 17, 202313:37

In-town pool report #9: Luncheon remarks
Biden and McCarthy were seated at the same table with the Taoiseach and Joe Kennedy at the front of the room. There are roughly 50 guests/lawmakers in attendance at the luncheon.
Speaker McCarthy spoke first, talking about how this luncheon started with former President Reagan and former Speaker Tip O'Neill and continues to this day. He joked about how a "clash is brewing" between him and Biden over which one is more Irish.
"From one Irish American to another, I want to strive every day to live up to the example of President Reagan and Tip O'Neill," McCarthy said addressing Biden.
The president then spoke for about 12 minutes. The remarks were live-streamed, but some highlights below:
"As many of you know, I like many of you take pride in my Irish ancestry. For as long as I can remember it's been part of my soul."
He spoke about how the values instilled in him by his family are the same ones he carries with him today.
"To this day, hope still brings us together... it's important to keep that in mind as we approach the upcoming anniversary of the Good Friday Agreement."
He recognized Northern Irish leaders in attendance at the luncheon and spoke about the Windsor Framework, which he called a "vital step."
He said he agrees with the Speaker that "there's no reason we can't find common ground... I hope we can then this breakfast into more of an every day relationship."



March 17, 202314:14

In-town pool report #10: Departing Capitol
Pool assembled at the base of the Capitol steps and waited for several minutes. At 2:10 p.m. the president, Speaker and Taoiseach emerged from the building and walked down the steps. At the bottom, Biden shook both their hands and ignored shouted questions about banning TikTok, Vladimir Putin, the COVID-19 intelligence bill and congressional action on banking before climbing into his vehicle.
Motorcade is rolling back to the White House in a light rain at 2:13 p.m.



March 17, 202314:21

In-town pool report #11: Back at White House
Motorcade arrived back at the White House at 2:19 p.m. after an uneventful drive. Pooler did not see POTUS enter the building.



March 17, 202314:39

In-town pool report #12: Lunch lid
White House called a lunch lid until 4:30 p.m.
Next on the president's public schedule is the Shamrock presentation and reception at 5 p.m.



March 17, 202316:45

In-town pool report #13: Gathering for reception
Pool is gathering for the reception and Shamrock presentation in the East Room. As a reminder, you can watch this event live on the White House website: https://www.whitehouse.gov/live/



March 17, 202317:09

In-town pool report #14: 2 minute warning East Room event
Pool and other credentialed press are assembled in the East Room for the Shamrock presentation and celebration, which will include a performance by Ireland's own Niall Horan.
Among those spotted in attendance are Jen O'Malley Dillon, Nancy Pelosi, Sen. Chris Coons and former Rep. Joe Kennedy, who is now special envoy to Northern Ireland.
The event is being live streamed on the White House website and C-SPAN, so I won't send full quotes but will send any notable color.
From the White House:
The President is hosting H.E. Leo Varadkar, Taoiseach of Ireland, for a Shamrock presentation and reception in the East Room.
AttendeesThe Vice PresidentThe Second GentlemanSpeaker Emerita Nancy Pelosi (CA-11)Secretary Tom Vilsack, Department of AgricultureSecretary Jennifer Granholm, Department of EnergySecretary Denis McDonough, Department of Veterans AffairsSenator Chris Coons (DE)Rep. Richard Neal (MA-01)Rep. Mary Gay Scanlon (PA-05)Rep. Brendan Boyle (PA-02)Rep. Brian Fitzpatrick (PA-01)Rep. Dan Kildee (MI-08)Rep. Michael Lawler (NY-17)Governor John Carney, DelawareJoe Kennedy, Special Envoy to Northern Ireland for Economic Affairs, Bureau of European And Eurasian AffairsT.H. Claire Cronin, Ambassador of the United States to IrelandH.E. Geraldine Byrne Nason, Ambassador of Ireland to the United StatesH.E. Dame Karen Pierce, Ambassador of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland to the United StatesT.H. Elizabeth Frawley Bagley, Ambassador of the United States to the Federative Republic of BrazilMayor Mike Duggan, Detroit, MichiganCommissioner John O'Grady, Franklin County, OhioMembers of the CabinetOther Members of CongressMembers of Irish Parliament and of UK ParliamentIrish-American community leaders
Run of ShowThe PresidentH.E. Leo Varadkar, Taoiseach of IrelandShamrock presentationMusical Performance by Niall Horan



March 17, 202318:05

In-town pool report #15: East Room event details
President Biden and the Taoiseach, Leo Varadkar, entered the East Room at 5:12 p.m. to applause from guests. Their remarks were streamed live.
Biden spoke first, talking again about his Irish heritage and the significance of St. Patrick's Day. He recognized several of those in attendance, which included some of his own cousins and some Irish lawmakers. He also separately recognized Pelosi and Kennedy, who each received applause.
The Taoiseach joked that all U.S. presidents are a little Irish on St. Patrick's Day, but that Biden is "unmistakably a son of Ireland." He also extended his prayers to former President Jimmy Carter, who is in hospice and who urged a peaceful way forward for Ireland during his presidency.
Varadkar concluded by saying he looked forward to welcoming Biden in Ireland "very soon."
After the Shamrock presentation at roughly 5:36 p.m., the stage was quickly rearranged to accommodate a musical performance and multiple guitars were brought out. While all this happened, Biden shook hands and posed for photos with various guests and worked the crowd.
Biden and the Taoiseach took seats in the front row, and Niall Horan took the stage at 5:42 p.m., accompanied by a keyboardist and a guitarist.
"If you know the words sing along, if you don't, don't try," he joked. Horan played "Heaven," "Flicker," and "This Town," which he said his about his hometown, and "Spancil Hill."
"Maybe we'll have a couple of pints after this," he said.
Event wrapped at 6:05 p.m.



March 17, 202318:33

In-town pool report #16: Week ahead
Passing along the week ahead from the White House.
President Biden is still scheduled to depart for Delaware from the South Lawn at 7:30 this evening.
Week Ahead (3/20)
On Monday, the President and the First Lady will host a Nowruz reception at the White House.
On Tuesday, the President will deliver remarks at the White House Conservation in Action Summit in Washington, DC. The summit, taking place at the Department of the Interior, will highlight the Biden-Harris Administration's actions and historic investments to advance conservation, restoration, and stewardship efforts and access to nature in communities nationwide.
In the evening, the President and the First Lady will host an Arts and Humanities Award Ceremony in the East Room.
On Wednesday, the President and the First Lady will host a Women's History Month reception at the White House.
On Thursday, the President will host an anniversary event for the Affordable Care Act in the East Room.
In the afternoon, the President and the First Lady will travel to Ottawa, Canada. The President will reaffirm the United States' commitment to the U.S.-Canada partnership and promote our shared security, shared prosperity, and shared values. During the visit, the President will meet with Prime Minister Justin Trudeau to discuss defense cooperation and modernizing the North American Aerospace Defense Command, strengthening supply chain resilience, taking bold action to combat climate change and accelerate the clean energy transition, and working together on regional challenges, including instability in Haiti. They will also discuss ongoing efforts to support Ukraine, to increase the costs to Russia and those supporting its war effort, and to counter the negative impacts of the war on the rest of the world. The two leaders will also discuss enhanced collaboration to address the synthetic opioid crisis that has devastated both countries, and irregular migration and forced displacement throughout the region. The President will also address the Canadian Parliament to highlight the importance of the United States-Canada bilateral relationship.
On Friday, the President and the First Lady will travel from Ottawa, Canada to Wilmington, Delaware where they will remain for the weekend.



March 17, 202319:00

In-town pool report #17: Gathering for departure
Pool is gathering a bit early for President Biden's Marine One departure from the South Lawn.



March 17, 202319:21

In-town pool report #18: Marine One departure
POTUS exited the White House at 7:13 p.m. And answered a few questions.
Asked about the upcoming meeting between Putin and Xi, he said we'll see how that goes.
On ICC arrest warrant for Putin: "I think it's justified." He noted the ICC is not recognized by the U.S., but it "makes a very strong point."
He later added Putin "clearly committed war crimes."
Asked if the bank crisis has calmed down: "Yes."
Marine One lifted off at 7:18



March 17, 202319:27

In-town pool report #19: Travelers
From the White House:
Traveling with the President aboard Marine One en route to Delaware Air National Guard Base:
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office OperationsMarc Gustafson, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for the White House Situation Room



March 17, 202319:38

In-town pool report #20: Fuller Q&A
Passing along fuller Q&A with Biden upon his departure from the White House.
Q: Could you give us your reaction to the International Criminal Court issuing an arrest warrant for Vladimir Putin?
A: "Well, I think it's justified. But the question is, it's not recognized internationally by us, either. But I think it makes a very strong point."
Q: Are you confident the bank crisis has calmed down?
A: "Yes."
Q: Reaction to President Putin meeting with President Xi next week?
A: "Well, we'll see when that meeting takes place."
Q: Asked about House GOP memo about China-linked payments to his family members.
A: "That's not true."
Q: Asked about Putin and whether he should be tried for war crimes in Ukraine.
A: "He's clearly committed war crimes." With that, handing off to the travel pool.




 
Pool Reports below by Kethevane Gorjestani, France 24 



Sent:
Reports:




March 17, 202310:00

Foreign pool report #1 - Background
Hello all,
Happy St Patrick's Day!
I'll be your foreign pooler for the Taoiseach (TEE-shock) of Ireland's visit to the White House.
Leo Varadkar will take part in a bilateral meeting with POTUS (scheduled for 10:30am) and participate in St. Patrick's Day Celebrations which are set to start at 5pm.
Per Irish embassy, the Taoiseach will likely make a very quick stop at the stakeout after the bilat before heading to Capitol Hill.
Previous meetings:
The 2 leaders have met in other capacities in the past, including when President Biden was VP.
It is a longstanding White House tradition to welcome the Taoiseach for St Patrick's Day.
Leo Varadkar was the last Taoiseach to visit the White House in person in march 2020 under former President Donald Trump.
POTUS met with Varadkar's predecessor Micheal Martin twice, but only virtually (in 2021, due to the pandemic and in 2022, after Martin tested positive for Covid while already in DC.)
Priorities for the bilateral (per Taoiseach himself and his office)
-Northern Ireland/Good Friday Agreement
"It would never have been possible without the support of our friends here in the United States, including some of the people in this room. In many ways, America is the thirds co-guarantor of the Agreement," Varadkar said on Wednesday night at the Ireland Funds gala, adding "let us remember that peace in Northern Ireland is one of the greatest and most significant success stories in American foreign policy."
POTUS is expected to visit Ireland & NI in April to mark the 25th anniversary of the Good Friday Agreement though no dates have yet been confirmed.
-Windsor Framework:
"I welcome and endorse the recent agreement between the EU and the UK, the Windsor Framework which amends the protocol to make life easier for citizens and businesses in Northern Ireland…I believe that Northern Ireland is well-positioned to take advantage from the unique position it finds itself in of having access to the UK as well as the EU Single Market" (Also from his speech at Ireland Funds)
-US/EU relations:
Speaking to reporters in DC, The Taoiseach said he will be raising concerns about the Inflation Reduction Act and its impact on European economies, to avoid a "subsidies race". "If we both end up subsidizing our companies, we just cancel each other out, and we cancel each other at the expense of each other's taxpayers."
-Ukraine
He told reporters he would thank POTUS for his leadership
"America is not perfect. There are a lot of times when they make very big foreign policy errors, but largely speaking, it's been a force for good in the last few centuries… So I really want to thank him for that and ask American stay the course in that regard."
Schedule:
Varadkar arrived in Washington on Tuesday.
On Wednesday, he spoke at the US Chamber of Commerce.
In the evening he gave a speech at the Ireland Funds gala dinner,
On Thursday, he spoke at several events in DC, including one at Georgetown University, which Hillary Clinton was attending. (He later confirmed she and former President Bill Clinton would be attending events marking the 25th anniversary of the GFA.)
He also discussed the African-American Irish diaspora connection at Howard University, which he called "a strong one and one that a lot of people don't know, but I think needs to be explored into the future".
At another event, the Taoiseach reminisced about his time as an intern during the last year of the Clinton presidency "when parents might have had cause for concern about what happened to interns" in the city. A spokesperson later issued an apology: "He made an ill-judged off-the-cuff remark which he regrets. He apologises for any offence caused to anyone concerned."
This morning, the Taoiseach and his partner Matthew Barrett had breakfast with Vice President Kamala Harris and Second Gentleman Douglas Emhoff.
After the bilat, the Taoiseach will travel to Capitol Hill for a Friends of Ireland Caucus luncheon hosted by House Speaker Kevin McCarthy. POTUS is also attending.
Varadkar will return to the WH for the St Patrick's Day reception at 5pm.
Singer Niall Horan (of One Direction fame) will perform at the ceremony.
This evening, the Taoiseach will host a special St Patrick's Day Gala Concert at the Kennedy Center.
Side note: National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan met separately with the leaders of Northern Ireland's DUP (which so far has refused to endorse the Windsor framework) and Sinn Fein, on Thursday afternoon.
Bio: 
Leo Varadkar is 44 years old.
He served as Taoiseach from 2017 to 2020 before returning to the job in December 2022.
He first became Taoiseach at the age of 38, making him the youngest Irish leader. He also made history as the first openly gay and first minority Taoiseach in Irish history. (His father is Indian and his mother Irish.)
He has been the leader of Fine Gael (FIN-uh GAYL) since 2017.
He held several cabinet positions under Taoiseach Enda Kenni from 2011 to 2017.
He was first elected to the Irish Parliament in 2007.
In 2020, Varadkar called a general election with his party Fine Gael coming in third. As part of a three-party governing coalition along with Fianna Fáil and the Green Party, he was succeeded as Taoiseach by Micheál Martin, the leader of Fianna Fáil. Varadkar was appointed deputy prime minister or Tánaiste (TAW-nuh-stuh) and Minister for Enterprise, Trade & Employment. As planned in the coalition agreement, Varadkar returned as Taoiseach in December 2022, with Martin being appointed Tánaiste.



March 17, 202310:33

Foreign pool #2
The Taoiseach arrived at the WH at 10:29am. He waved to the press before walking into the West Wing.
Pool is now gathering for the oval office bilat.



March 17, 202311:00

Foreign pool report #3
Pool was ushered in at 10:48am
POTUS spoke first.
The Taoiseach spoke first in Irish then in English. He thanked POTUS for his support during Brexit and for his leadership regarding the war in Ukraine and said he was looking forward to POTUS visiting Ireland.
Pool was ushered out at 10:53am.
There were multiple attempts at questions but no answers.
Full quotes to come



March 17, 202311:19

Foreign pool report #4 - Full quotes
Here are some fuller quotes from the Taoiseach.
Per our Irish colleagues, he made brief comments in Irish, thanking POTUS but nothing substantially different from his longer remarks in English.
"I really want to thank you for your help and support and understanding for our position on Brexit in recent years. It really made a difference. And we've got to a good place now I think with the Windsor framework where we can have an agreement that lasts."
"I really profoundly want to thank you and America for your leadership in relation to Ukraine. I never thought we'd see a war like this happen in Europe in my lifetime. And America is at its best when it stands with its European partners to defend freedom and democracy."
"I promise you that we're going to roll out the red carpet and it's going to be a visit like no other. Everyone's excited about already."



March 17, 202312:04

Foreign pool report #5 - Stakeout remarks
The Taoiseach came out to the sticks at 11:48am.
He said he had a "very good meeting with the President, he gave us a lot of time, very warm meeting."
He said they spoke about Ukraine and Northern Ireland
"THe President is very keen to see the institutions up and running again in Northern Ireland and hopefully see the windsor framework fully put into operation."
"We spoke about a potential visit. He certainly hopes and expects to come to Ireland hopefully in the future."
He took 2 questions:
Asked if there was a timeframe for the visit: "Not at this moment"
Asked if POTUS could "be a catalyst to get Stormont (NI assembly) up and running again":
"He's hugely informed and very much across what's happening in Ireland and very supportive of our efforts and would like to see the Good Friday Agreement operating as it should.
There was also a shouted question about his Clinton intern joke - see my background report ("What were you thinking when you made your remarks about interns?") which he didn't acknowledge.
He's now off to the Friends of Ireland Caucus Luncheon, to which your foreign pooler is not invited.



March 17, 202317:10

Foreign pool report #6
Pool is in a very green East Room.
Most guest have already been seated.
Spotted Sinn Fein leader Mary Lou McDonald and Michelle O'Neill as well as Democratic Unionist Party leader Jeffrey Donaldson.
Chris Heaton-Harris, Secretary of State for Northern Ireland
Geraldine Byrne Nason, Irish Ambassador to the US.
And for rugby fans like your pooler, Rob Kearney, former Ireland fullback, who is a distant cousin of President Biden.



March 17, 202317:42

Foreign pool report #7
POTUS & Taoiseach entered at 5:13pm to loud cheers.
POTUS spoke first, mentioning his Irish roots, the war in Ukraine, the Good Friday Agreement, the Windsor Framework.
The Taoiseach started speaking at 5:28pm. He said POTUS was "unmistakably a son of Ireland."
He thanked succesive US Presidents for helping secure peace in Ireland.
"We know that at especially difficult or fragile moments in the search for peace, successive presidents from both sides of the aisle, stepped in with words of encouragement, a hand on the shoulder or even a gentle shove in the right direction."
"Russia's brutal war against Ukraine has reminded us that freedom can never be taken for granted. And when we defend freedom abroad, we also protect our own freedom at home."
"We look forward to welcoming you soon in Ireland"
At 5:37pm the Taoiseach presented the traditional bowl of shamrock to the President.
We're now waiting for a performance by singer Niall Horan (former One Direction)



March 17, 202318:09

Foreign pool report #8
Niall Horan took the stage at 5:43pm
" Thanks very much for having me here today. As a proud Irishman travelling across the world, it's a major honor for me to be here. Thanks for putting me up to it. There's a lot of talented Irish singers out there but to get chosen to represent your country on the grandest of stages is a real honor. So thanks very much."
"I'm not nervous, you are" he joked. "I don't think I've ever been so scared"
He played 3 of his songs and finished his set with a traditional Irish song "Spancil Hill"
POTUS took the stage and threw his arm around Niall Horan.
POTUS exited at 6:05pm




 
Pool Reports below by S.V. Dáte, HuffPost 



Sent:
Reports:




March 17, 202320:04

WH travel pool 1 — Delaware arrival
Marine 1 set down at 1956 at Delaware Air National Guard Base in New Castle, the third of the formation to land.
President Biden stepped out of the helicopter, saluted the commander of the base, and climbed into the waiting SUV. At 2003 his motorcade was underway toward his residence.



March 17, 202320:06

WH travel pool report 1a — greeters
From the WH press office:
Greeting the President upon arrival at Delaware Air National Guard Base:
LTC Linden L. Boyer III, 198th Expeditionary Signal Battalion CommanderCSM Shawn E. McFadden, 198th Expeditionary Signal Battalion Command Sergeant Major



March 17, 202320:20

WH travel pool report 2 — arrival at chez Biden, lid
The motorcade arrived at the president's residence at 2015. The press bus continued past, now without the flashing light accouterments.
Pool is en route to the hotel and we have a lid for the evening.
Bonne nuit from Wilmington.




  