
    WASHINGTON, DC – Today, President Barack Obama announced his intent to appoint the following individual to a key Administration post:
•      Andrew Jackson – Assistant Secretary for Management, Department of Education
President Obama also announced his appointment of the following individuals to key Administration posts:
•      Robert J. Glovsky – Member, President's Advisory Council on Financial Capability for Young Americans
•      Deanna M. Mulligan – Member, President's Advisory Council on Financial Capability for Young Americans
President Obama said, "It gives me great confidence that such dedicated and capable individuals have agreed to join this Administration to serve the American people. I look forward to working with them in the months and years to come."
President Obama announced his intent to appoint the following individual to a key Administration post:
Andrew Jackson, Appointee for Assistant Secretary for Management, Department of Education
Andrew Jackson is the Deputy Assistant Secretary for Technology, Information, and Business Services at the Department of the Interior, a position he has held since July 2009. Prior to joining the Administration, Mr. Jackson held multiple positions from 1999 to 2009 at the Hewlett-Packard (HP) Company in Palo Alto, California, most recently serving as Senior Counsel. Before joining HP, Mr. Jackson was a corporate transactional attorney at Piper Marbury Rudnick & Wolfe LLP (now known as DLA Piper) in Washington, D.C. and Graham & Dunn PC in Seattle, Washington. Mr. Jackson received a B.A. from the University of Miami, a J.D. from Harvard Law School, and an M.B.A. from the Wharton Business School at the University of Pennsylvania.
President Obama announced his appointment of the following individuals to key Administration posts:
Robert J. Glovsky, Appointee for Member, President's Advisory Council on Financial Capability for Young Americans 
Robert J. Glovsky is Vice Chair and a Principal of The Colony Group, positions he has held since 2012. Previously, from 1998 to 2012, he was a founder and President of Mintz Levin Financial Advisors. Mr. Glovsky is the Director Emeritus of Boston University's Financial Planning Program. He serves as a charter member of the Fidelity Institutional Wealth Services Advisor Council and is a former member of the Fidelity Research Institute's Advisory Council. He served on the Certified Financial Planner Board of Standards where he held the position of Chair of the Board of Examiners and then subsequently Chair of the Board of Directors. Mr. Glovsky received a B.A. from Dartmouth College and an LL.M and a J.D. from Boston University School of Law.
Deanna M. Mulligan, Appointee for Member, President's Advisory Council on Financial Capability for Young Americans 
Deanna M. Mulligan is the President and CEO of The Guardian Life Insurance Company of America, a position she has held since 2011. Prior to this position, she held various positions at Guardian Life, including President and Chief Operating Officer from 2010 to 2011 and Executive Vice President from 2008 to 2010. Previously, she was the Founder and President of DMM Management Solutions, LLC from 2007 to 2008. Ms. Mulligan was the Senior Vice President of Life & Annuity at New York Life Insurance Company from 2006 to 2007, and the Executive Vice President of Market & Product Development at AXA Equitable from 2001 to 2004. Ms. Mulligan received a B.A. from the University of Nebraska and an M.B.A. from the Stanford University Graduate School of Business.
  