
    Today, former Oklahoma House Minority Leader Scott Inman, former Oklahoma House Minority Leader Steve Kouplen, Oklahoma Activist Jana Harkins and twelve additional Oklahoma elected officials endorsed Joe Biden for President of the United States. Oklahomans go to the polls on Super Tuesday.
"I'm for Joe Biden because he is the only candidate with the broad, diverse coalition that reflects America, and that we absolutely need to beat Trump – and the only one with the proven experience to bring us together afterwards, to fix Trump's mess and get big things done," said former Oklahoma House Minority Leader Scott Inman.
"Joe Biden is the candidate we need to beat Donald Trump and bring people together to get things done again. His experience means that he can hit the ground running on day one, without any on-the-job training, and start delivering for Oklahomans immediately. I am excited to get to work over the coming weeks and months to make sure Joe Biden is our next President," said former Oklahoma House Minority Leader Steve Kouplen.
"Our country needs a leader who understands the struggle of the working class. Vice President Joe Biden has been working for Oklahomans his entire career -- from expanding the Affordable Care Act to writing and passing the Violence Against Women Act, Joe has always had our back and it's time that we have his," said Jana Lewis Harkins, Oklahoma Community Activist.
The full list of Oklahoman leaders endorsing Joe Biden for President include:

Drew Edmondson, former Oklahoma Attorney General and 2018 Democratic Nominee for Governor
Scott Inman, Oklahoma House Minority Leader
Steve Kouplen, Oklahoma House Minority Leader
Jana Harkins, Oklahoma Activist
Angela Munson, former Senator and Oklahoma City School Board Chair
Jeannie McDaniel, Former Assistant Democratic Floor Leader
Cathy Cummings, Mayor of Village, Oklahoma
Eric Proctor, Former Assistant Democratic Leader
James Lockhart, Former State Representative
Ben Sherrer, Former Democratic Floor Leader
David Perryman, Oklahoma House Democratic Floor Leader
Jason Lowe, Oklahoma State Representative
Brian Renegar, Former Assistant Democratic Floor Leader
Ed Cannaday, Former Oklahoma State Representative
Ben Loring, Oklahoma State Representative

These leaders join Oklahoma State Representative Ajay Pittman who announced her endorsement for Joe Biden as early voting began last week. Biden for President has previously announced more than 1,400 endorsements from national, state, and local leaders, including current and former U.S. senators and representatives, governors, state elected officials, community leaders, and national security professionals.
  