
    
  Dozens of Buckeye State Christian and Conservative Activists Rally to Cruz

HOUSTON, Texas – Presidential candidate Ted Cruz today announced the endorsements of more than 30 key Ohio leaders, including clergy, elected officials, and activists representing thousands of Ohio voters. As of Monday, more than three dozen pastors have also endorsed Ted Cruz in Ohio. More than 200 county leaders are organizing for Cruz on the ground in Ohio, with at least one in each of the state's 88 counties.
"I am thrilled to announce such outstanding endorsements from Ohio leaders," said Cruz. "These are some of Ohio's top conservative leaders and they add to our incredible list of courageous conservatives from all across the Buckeye State."
"Ted Cruz has a consistent track record of supporting pro-family values," said Phil Burress, Chairman of Citizens for Community Values Action (CCV Action) and a leader in Ohio's initiative to protect natural marriage. "He is the leader we need to defend and protect our God-given rights."
"We believe that in order to have pro-life legislation that protects the lives of all unborn children, we need legislators who believe in the fundamental right to life from the moment of conception, as well as the centrality of the natural family as a fundamental foundation for society," said Molly Smith, President of Cleveland Right to Life, Inc. "Our choice to endorse Ted Cruz for President was based on a number of factors: his strong and committed pro-life and pro-family stances on policy issues, outstanding judicial record, and ability to be successful in his campaign."
Ohio endorsements for Cruz for President:
Cleveland Right to Life
Ohio Conservatives United
Citizens for Community Values Action (CCV Action)
Cuyahoga Valley Republicans
State Representative Andy Thompson, District 95
Phil Burress
Chairman of Citizens for Community Values Action (CCV Action)
Molly Smith
President of Cleveland Right to Life
Lori Viars
Board Member of Conservative Republican Leadership Committee
Diane Stover
Founder of NE Ohio Values Voters
Linda Theis
President of Ohio ProLife Action
Linda Harvey
Founder of Mission America
Bobbi Radeck
Former State Director, Concerned Women for America
Crystal Gurry
Former Legislative Liaison, Concerned Women for America
Former State Representative Diana Fessler
Public Policy Analyst
Pastor JC Church
Senior Pastor, Victory in Truth Ministries
Ed Sitter
Executive Director, Greater Toledo Right To Life
Barbara Burkard
Miami Valley Citizens Informed
Sue Hardenbergh
Co-Leader of Anderson Tea Party in S.W. Ohio
Joseph Platt, Esq.,
Board Member of Family First
Joan Loebker
Former V.P. of Greater Cincinnati Right To Life
Debbie Smith
President of Warren County Right To Life
Councilman Don Prince
Mason City Councilman & former Warren Co. Republican Central Committee Chairman
Pastor Bruce Moore
Warren County Republican Executive Committee member
Candice Keller
Butler County Republican Central Committee member
T.J. Honerlaw
Warren County Republican Executive Committee member
Denver Sallee
President of Lake County Right to Life; V.P. of Geauga Co. TEA Party
Pastor Tim Throckmorton
Senior Pastor, Crossroads Church in Circleville OH
Jeannine Jones
Secretary of Cleveland Right to Life; Member of Ohio Right to Life PAC
Marlene Johnson
Greene County Republican Central Committee Member
Annette Kocka
Convention of The States Ohio District Chair 6
Bob Lattimer
State Board of Eagle Forum of Ohio
Lois Arconti
Precinct Chair
Benjamin Mutti
Spokesman, Richland Community Family Coalition
Bonnie Kaufman
Conservative Activist
*Titles and affiliations of all endorsers are provided for identification purposes only.
  