
    LET ME say, Worshipful Layton, distinguished officers of the Grand Lodge, and honorable past Grand Masters, that this is a wonderful, wonderful thought on your part, and I am most grateful for being included with the father of our country on this silver medallion.
I, of course, have a very special allegiance to the lodge here in the District of Columbia because although I started back in Grand Rapids, because I was in Congress it was not possible for me to participate, and as a result the brothers here in the District of Columbia were very helpful, and I actually got my degrees here in Washington, D.C. So, I thank those that participated, and I am highly honored to have had the opportunity here in the District of Columbia.
You noted that I am the 14th President that belonged to the Masonic fraternity. I also noted that some 19 Vice Presidents also belonged to the Masonic fraternity plus innumerable hundreds and maybe thousands of Members of Congress over the years have likewise been a part of our fraternity. I can't, of course, tell you how many judges and other high public officials have already been a part of what we hold so dear.
It was also significant, I thought, that some of the original or some of the signers of the Declaration of Independence, Benjamin Franklin, John Hancock, Paul Revere and, of course, George Washington, and perhaps others--I don't recall any of the others--were signers of the Declaration of Independence which is, of course, a very basic document in the establishment of our concepts, the establishment of our Government.
I know Masonry has contributed over the years, the length and the breadth of this country, a great moral spirit that has helped significantly in the building of America. They have done it for two centuries. I am told that there were only about 3,000 Masons at the time this country was formed, 3,000 out of some 3 million who were in the Thirteen Colonies that made America.
Well, Masonry has contributed in the 200 years. I am confident it will do likewise in the third century and longer than that. So, I thank you for the honor, Worshipful Layton. And I thank all of the members, and particularly those who are here today, for their coming to the White House to participate in this ceremony.
Thank you very, very much.
  