
    Dear Mr. Speaker: (Dear Mr. President:)
I transmit herewith for consideration of the Congress proposed legislation to extend the appropriation authorization for the Arms Control and Disarmament Agency and for other purposes, together with a letter from the Acting Director of the Agency in support of this legislation.
The United States Government's interest in arms control agreements has gained widespread public and bipartisan political support. The ultimate goals of these agreements are to lessen the danger of war and to promote peaceful settlement of disputes. We are currently pursuing these goals in many forums, including negotiations bilaterally with the Soviet Union, and multilaterally with the Warsaw Pact countries, in the Geneva based Conference of the Committee on Disarmament and in the United Nations.
In the troublesome area of nuclear proliferation, we are continuing to increase the effectiveness of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons and the International Atomic Energy Agency. We are taking important initiatives to establish new cooperation with the other major nations supplying nuclear equipment and technology. And I have given my support to a comprehensive nuclear test ban.
In my Administration, the Arms Control and Disarmament Agency will have a very important role in all of these activities. By statute the Director of the Agency serves as the principal adviser to the Secretary of State, the National Security Council, and me on arms control and disarmament matters. In addition, the Director will serve as my chief negotiator at the Strategic Arms Limitations Talks and his Agency will continue to have the principal support responsibility for these negotiations and the negotiations relating to mutual and balanced force reductions in Europe. Its budget supports research in furtherance of these negotiations as well as nuclear non-proliferation, nuclear test limitations, and other important arms control activities.
Current authorization and appropriations for the Arms Control and Disarmament Agency expire September 30, 1977. I am transmitting the attached draft bill in order that the Congress may begin its consideration of future authorizing legislation for the Agency.
The draft bill would also amend the Arms Control and Disarmament Act to delete a requirement that all of the Agency's contracts and agreements for research be with United States institutions or persons. As explained in the letter from the Acting Director of the Agency, this amendment is needed for the Agency to fully carry out its statutory responsibilities.
I urge early enactment of this measure.
Sincerely,
JIMMY CARTER
  