
    Dear Webb:
It is with profound sadness and regret that I accept your resignation as Associate Attorney General.
I know better than anyone the spirit of citizenship and devotion to the law that inspired you to join our Administration and to take part, as Holmes said, in the actions and passions of our time. In the last year, these values came shining through as you worked for civil justice reform and immigration enforcement, fought to end discrimination in public housing, and to protect the civil and voting rights of all Americans.
In these tasks you affirmed our commitment to justice, always with keen judgment and good humor, especially at vital times of challenge for the Department. The Attorney General and I will miss the service and advice you gave us. And I know your accomplishments in office will outlast any interest in the private matters that have arisen from your prior law practice and that motivated the difficult decision you announced today.
Like you, I hope that you will return one day to public service. I remain, as always, grateful for your long and lasting friendship.
Sincerely,
BILL CLINTON


Dear Mr. President:
For over a year, I have had the privilege of serving you, the Attorney General, and the nation at the Department of Justice. I am deeply grateful and honored for this opportunity to serve as the Associate Attorney General of the United States. I have tried to serve with honor and distinction and to follow your lead in trying to make a difference in the every day lives of the American people.
As a public servant, I owe it to you and to the American people to evaluate constantly whether my continued service can be as effective as you would expect of me, whether it furthers or distracts from your agenda, and what effect being in the public eye is having on my family and colleagues. Over the past weekend I have undertaken such an evaluation, and I have decided to submit my resignation as Associate Attorney General. My resignation shall be effective as soon as possible, allowing the Attorney General the time to effect a smooth transition at the Justice Department.
I am proud of the reputation I have established over the past 20 years as a private lawyer, Arkansas Supreme Court Justice, public official, and private citizen. Unfortunately, because of public speculation about me and my former law firm, I will have to spend a significant amount of my personal time on an internal matter with my former partners. I am confident of the outcome.
I will leave the Department of Justice with great admiration for the Attorney General, high regard for the professionalism and dedication of its employees, and with great pride in the Department's accomplishments during the past year.
Public service has always been one of the greatest joys of my professional life. It is my sincere hope and belief that by devoting sufficient time and energy now to my family and other private issues, I will reenter public service in the future. Thank you for allowing me such a wonderful opportunity and, most of all, thank you for your friendship.
Respectfully,
WEBSTER L. HUBBELL
  