
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to appoint five individuals to serve in his administration.
The President intends to appoint Frank B. Strickland of Georgia, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of Legal Services Corporation. He is currently a partner with Strickland, Brockington and Lewis. He was previously a partner with Holland & Knight in Atlanta, and a shareholder with Wilson, Strickland, and Bensen. Strickland also worked as both an associate and partner for Westmoreland, Hall & Bryan. He has served in the U.S. Coast Guard, having retired a Commander in the U.S. Coast Guard Reserve. Strickland has a BA from Vanderbilt University and a JD from Emory University.
The President intends to appoint Michael McKay of Washington to be a Member of the Board of Directors of Legal Services Corporation. McKay is currently Managing Partner at McKay & Chadwell in Seattle, having previously worked as a partner with Lane, Powell, Spears, Lubersky from 1993 to 1995. From 1989 to 1993, he was United States Attorney for the Western District of Washington. He was with McKay & Gaitan from 1981 to 1989, and was a Senior Deputy Prosecuting Attorney in the King County Prosecuting Attorney's Office from 1976 to 1981. Mr. McKay has a B. A. from the University of Washington and a J. D. degree from Creighton University.
The President intends to appoint Thomas A. Fuentes of California to be a Member of the Legal Services Corporation. He is currently Senior Vice President of Tait & Associates, and is Chairman of the Republican Party of Orange County. Mr. Fuentes has served as the Director of Communications for the Roman Catholic Diocese of Orange County, and received the annual ARCO Civic Leadership Award presented by the Mexican and American Foundation in 1989. President Reagan appointed him as a member of the United States Selective Services Appeals Board for California in 1981. He has an AA in Journalism from Santa Ana College and a BA in Government from Chapman University.
The President intends to appoint Lillian R. BeVier of Virginia, to be a Member of the Legal Services Corporation. She is currently a professor of law at the University of Virginia. She was previously an associate professor of law at the University of Santa Clara Law School, and practiced with Spaeth Blas' Valentine & Klein in Palo Alto. BeVier has a B. A. from Smith College and a J. D. from Stanford University.
The President intends to appoint Robert J. Dieter of Colorado to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Legal Services Corporation. He has been a Clinical Professor of Law at the University of Colorado since 1990. From 1983 to 1994, he was the Director of the Legal Aid and Defender Program at the University of Colorado, where he also worked as an Associate Clinical Professor from 1979 to 1989. From 1973 to 1975 he was a Deputy District Attorney for the 7th Judicial District in Delta, Colorado. Dieter has a BA from Yale University and a JD from the University of Denver.
  