
    The Clinton Campaign today unveiled a new video of testimonials from retired Admirals and Generals supporting Hillary Clinton to be Commander-in-Chief.
"We face growing threats around the globe. Sen. Clinton is the candidate that we believe is the strongest, most experienced leader," Rear Admiral David Stone says in the video.
More than thirty former Admirals and Generals, including two former Chairmen of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and five retired officers at the four-star rank have endorsed Hillary Clinton to be our next Commander-in-Chief.
Earlier this month, several of these supporters met in person with Senator Clinton for a private conversation about ending the war in Iraq and winning the war in Afghanistan; and to testify publicly for her leadership ability.
In this new video, these great Americans who have given so much to our country, say why they believe Senator Clinton is the best candidate of either party to be our next Commander-in-Chief.
To view the video, [Click here].
A full transcript of the video is below.
Hillary for President
Admirals and Generals
(Ret) Rear Admiral David Stone: There's a large group of retired Admirals and Generals that believe that this is the most important election in their lifetime...
[Screen: 34 retired Generals and Admirals including two chairmen of the Joint Chiefs of Staff endorse Hillary Clinton]
..."We face growing threats around the globe. Sen. Clinton is the candidate that we believe is the strongest, most experienced leader.
(Ret.) Lt. General Joe Ballard:
She has spent time in discussions with foreign governments and has spent time on the ground with military in Iraq and Afghanistan.
(Ret.) Brigadier General Evelyn "Pat" Foote:
The woman has traveled to over eighty countries; she knows this world
D. Stone:
Sen. Clinton has served for over five years on the Senate Armed Services Committee. She's intimately familiar with the challenges that we face in our military today.
J. Ballard:
Sen. Clinton is the only candidate that has articulated a clear plan for getting us out of Iraq.
(Ret.) General Wesley Clark:
On Iraq, she has a plan to bring our troops home in a smart, safe way.
(Ret.) Brigadier General Michael Dunn:
I have seen her get legislation passed that provides resources for our combat veterans.
(Ret.) Brigadier General John Watkins:
She took it upon herself to make sure that the National Guard and Reserve members who didn't have access to TriCare insurance would get access to TriCare.
(Ret.) Major General George Buskirk:
Sen. Clinton came out early and often, to fight for upgraded body armor, and you can ask any soldier-you can ask my son-how appreciative they are.
M. Dunn:
I admire charisma, I admire intellect. In a Commander in Chief I want more than that. I want proof. I want a track record.
J. Ballard:
You cannot learn on the job, you have to have a base of experience-a framework of experience.
J. Watkins:
Who do we believe would be the best person to occupy the Oval Office and to answer the red phone, as we said, at 3 o'clock in the morning or three o'clock in the afternoon? We come down on the Sen Hillary's side of the ledger
W. Clark:
I believe Hillary Clinton is the right choice for America.
  