
    Too Short on Action: Clinton responds to "the Bush administration's plans to shake up U.S. financial market regulation" by saying the plans are "too short on action... there is still a very serious gap between what the administration is proposing and the immediate crisis that we face." Read more. Read Hillary's plan.
Don't Stop Campaigning: A Washington Post editorial says that an "extended contest informs the electorate and serves to battle-test [both candidates]. We don't see why the process should be short-circuited when millions of votes are yet to be cast..." Read more.
Stronger Across America: The New York Times describes the "enthusiasm [of] voters to have their voices heard." "No way should she get out of the race," said one Indiana voter, "She's stronger and her support is much stronger than what many people think." Read more.
Voting Her Heart in Media, PA: Gertrude '˜Geri' Clausen was "born in 1913 - before women had the right to vote...[she] was a loyal registered Republican for 73 years....Now she's a Democrat who wants to elect a woman president." Geri's daughter says "her mother is channeling a lifetime of slights and hope into one vote." Read more.
Surprising Support: The NYT reports on the change of heart from Richard Mellon Scaife, owner of the Pittsburgh Review-Tribune. Despite strong criticism in the 90s, Scaife reflected on his recent meeting, describing Hillary as having "'˜exhibited an impressive command of many of today's most pressing domestic and international issues.' Her answers, he added, '˜were thoughtful, well-stated and often dead on.'" Read more.
Previewing Today: Hillary hosts "Solutions for the American Economy" events in Harrisburg, PA and Fairless Hills, PA where middle class tax cut will be the focus.
Canvassing for Hillary: First-time political volunteer Terry Gish writes about his first canvassing experience. "The doors did open, along with a flood of enthusiasm for this campaign. When I asked one lady if Hillary could count on her vote, she roared, '˜You bet she can!'" Read more.
The Hillary I Know: Congresswoman Hilda Solis knows that with Hillary as president "women will have a true advocate in the White House and makes the changes our country and women everywhere need to move forward." Read more.
On Tap: This Wednesday, Hillary hosts an economic summit in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.
  