
    The President today announced his intention to appoint the following individuals to be members of the National Voluntary Service Advisory Council. The President also intends to designate W. Clement Stone as Temporary Chairman.
Michael R. Blichasz is president of the Polish-American Congress and is employed by the Phillips Co., Philadelphia, Pa.
William H. Bowen is president of Dallas Business Capitol Corp., Dallas, Tex.
Jose M. Deetjen is vice president, Tax Administration and Counsel, Burbank, Calif.
Jennifer B. Dunn is chairman, Republican State Committee of Washington, Seattle, Wash.
Gordon Fitzgerald is a retired insurance executive in Fort Worth, Tex.
Edith Abigail Hoskins is administrative assistant, National League for Nursing, Atlanta, Ga.
Jane Pickens Hoving is founder and president, Tune-In, Inc., New York, N.Y.
Mary Elizabeth Irvin is a homemaker and Republican Party activist in Greensboro, N.C.
Elaine B. Jenkins is president, One America, Inc., Washington, D.C.
Samuel C. Johnson is chairman and chief executive officer, S.C. Johnson and Son, Inc., Racine, Wis.
Tom Kahn is assistant to the president of the AFL-CIO, Washington, D.C.
Leslie Lenkowsky is director of research, Smith Richardson Foundation, Inc., New York, N.Y.
J. Roderick MacArthur is director, the MacArthur Foundation, Niles, Ill.
Roy Pfautch is president of Civic Service (public affairs), St. Louis, Mo.
Joan H. Smith is second vice president of Association of Junior Leagues, Inc., Portland, Oreg.
John H. Staggers, Jr., is director, One Ministries, Washington, D.C.
W. Clement Stone is chairman, founder, president, and chief executive officer of Combined International Corp., Northbrook, Ill.
Walter N. Thayer is director, Dun & Bradstreet Co., Inc., New York, N.Y.
Tommy Thomas is owner, Tommy Thomas Chevrolet, Panama City, Fla.
Kenneth E Tomlinson is senior editor, Readers Digest, Pleasantville, N.Y. C. William Verity, Jr., is chairman of the board, ARMCO, Middleton, Ohio.
Dorothy Vuksich is a homemaker in San Francisco, Calif.
  