
    Seattle - Governor Jay Inslee today launched his candidacy for president today, saying "this is our moment" to defeat climate change. Inslee declared that this mission is at the center of his presidential campaign and a cornerstone of the progressive policies he will pursue.
"Today, before the people I know best, my friends and family, I announce my candidacy to be the next President of the United States," Gov. Inslee said. "I do so, because this is our moment, our moment to solve America's most daunting challenge and make it the first, foremost, and paramount duty of the United States—defeating climate change."
The launch was held at A&R Solar in Seattle, a solar installation company that opened in 2007 with a team of just two. Today, A&R Solar employs over 70 workers, thanks in large part to Gov. Inslee's policies to grow Washington's clean energy economy - including by signing the 2017 Solar Incentive Jobs Bill. A&R was named one of Washington's fastest-growing private businesses by Puget Sound Business Journal.
"Climate change is not more important than the economy," Jay told the crowd gathered for his announcement. "It is the economy."
Fighting climate change has been a driving force throughout Gov. Inslee's public life. Elected as governor of Washington in 2013, Inslee has been called America's "greenest governor." He co-founded the U.S. Climate Alliance in 2017 and he has passed significant laws that make Washington a national leader in the clean energy economy. In 2013, Inslee created a new Clean Energy Fund, which has invested more than $100 million in developing and deploying innovative energy technologies, and growing clean energy businesses and jobs.
In his announcement, Inslee recognized the scope of the challenge but also the ability of Americans to rise to the occasion.
"We are going to win this," he told the crowd. "I know something about the American people and their character. We are optimists. We are can-do people. We invent, we create, we build. Defeating climate change is just as much as a matter of character as it is of science."
A video announcing the campaign launch was released earlier today. The video highlights Inslee's career-long commitment to fighting climate change and his national mission to tackle the most daunting challenge of our time.
  