
    Today, former Governor of Missouri Jay Nixon, Jackson County Executive Frank White, Jr., former Kansas City Mayor Sly James, and over sixty additional Missouri leaders endorsed Joe Biden for President of the United States.
"Joe Biden is the experienced, empathetic leader America and the world needs now to end this untruthful, divisive and incredibly simplistic presidency in November. I believe he will, and look forward to working to make it happen," said former Governor of Missouri Jay Nixon.
"We need a President now more than ever that understands our values, is passionate about supporting working families and has a proven track-record of getting things done. Our nation needs someone like Joe Biden, an honest, hard-working and dedicated leader who has been a reliable champion for American families for more than 40 years. It is time that we restore our country's dignity and respect, at home and abroad and I have no doubt that Joe Biden is the man to lead the way. Joe Biden will be a President that we can be proud of," said Jackson County Executive Frank White, Jr.
The full list of Missouri leaders endorsing Joe Biden for President include:

Jay Nixon, Former Governor of Missouri
Frank White, Jr., Jackson County Executive
Sly James, Former Mayor, City of Kansas City
Debra Carnahan, Former Judge
Jamilah Nasheed, MO State Senator
Karla May, MO State Senator
Sarah Unsicker, State Representative
LaDonna Appelbaum, State Representative
Wiley Price, State Representative
Doug Beck, State Representative
Alan Gray, State Representative
Keri Ingle, State Representative
Joe Runions, State Representative
Trish Gunby, State Representative
Ashley Bland Manlove, State Representative
Robert Sauls, State Representative
Wes Rogers, State Representative
Alan Green, State Representative
Jerome Barnes, State Representative
Yolanda Young, State Representative
Rory Rowland, State Representative
Lewis Reed, President of the Board of Aldermen, St. Louis City
Francis Slay, Former Mayor, City of St. Louis
Manuel Abarca, Treasurer of the Kansas City Public School Board
Melissa Robinson, Kansas City Council Member
Andrea Bough, Kansas City Council Member
Kevin McManus, Kansas City Council Member
Teresa Loar, Kansas City Council Member
Katheryn Shields, Kansas City Council Member
Kevin O' Neill, Kansas City Council Member
Darlene Green, Comptroller, City of St. Louis
Corey Then, Former Obama Administration Official
Jack Coatar, 7th Ward Alderman, City of St. Louis
Sarah Martin, 11th Ward Alderwoman, City of St. Louis
Tom Oldenburg, 16th Ward Alderman, City of St. Louis
Carol Howard, 14th Ward Alderwoman, City of St. Louis
Jeffrey Boyd, 22nd Ward Alderman, City of St. Louis
Joe Roddy, 17th Ward Alderman, City of St. Louis
Lisa Middlebrook, 2nd Ward Alderwoman, City of St. Louis
Beth Murphy, 13th Ward Alderwoman, City of St. Louis
John Collins-Muhhammad, 21st Ward Alderman, City of St. Louis
Joe Vaccaro, 23rd Ward Alderman, City of St. Louis
Pam Boyd, 27th Ward Alderwoman, City of St. Louis
Marlene Davis, 19th Ward Alderwoman, City of St. Louis
Shameem Clark Hubbard, 26th Ward Alderwoman, City of St. Louis
Bill Skaggs, Former State Representative and Kansas City Council Member and Chair of the Clay County Democratic Committee
John Bowman, Committeeman for Normandy Township; former Alderman and State Representative
John Mayfield, Former State Representative
Ted Farnen, Former State Representative
Trent Skaggs, Former State Representative
Scott Taylor, Former Kansas City Council Member
Ed Ford, Former Kansas City Council Member
Cindy Circo, Former Kansas City Council Member
Allan Gray, Former Lee's Summit City Council Member
Samuel L. Moore, Former 4th Ward Alderman, City of St. Louis
Ella Skaggs, President of the Young Democrats of North Kansas City High School
Cathy Jolly, Former State Rep and KC City Councilwoman
Melba Curls, Former State Rep and KC City Councilwoman
Theresa Garza, Former Jackson County Legislator
Mike Kelley, Former Missouri Democratic Party Executive Director
Patrick Lynn, Political Consultant and Former Senior Advisor to Gov. Bob Holden
Adam Sachs, Former Counsel, House Majority Whip James E. Clyburn
Charlie Dooley, Former St. Louis County Executive
Karen Pierre, Normandy Committeewoman
Ingrid Burnett, State Representative
John Burnett, Former State Senator
Ronald Finley, Jackson County Legislator

These endorsements follow former Senator Jean Carnahan, former Governor Bob Holden, Kansas City Community Leader Gwendolyn Grant, and other Missouri leaders who endorsed Joe Biden earlier this week. Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, a former chair of the Congressional Black Caucus, has also endorsed Joe Biden. Biden for President has previously announced more than 1,500 endorsements from national, state, and local leaders, including current and former U.S. senators and representatives, governors, state elected officials, community leaders, and national security professionals.
  