
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate eight individuals to serve in his administration and announced his designation of one individual.
The President intends to nominate Deborah J. Daniels to be Assistant Attorney General for the Office of Justice Programs. She is currently a Partner with the law firm of Kreig, DeVault, Alexander & Capehart in Indianapolis, Indiana. Daniels was Executive Director of the Greater Indianapolis Progress Committee from 1994 to 1996 and served as the United States Attorney for the Southern District of Indiana from 1988 to 1993. She is a graduate of DePauw University and received her J.D. from Indiana University School of Law.
The President intends to nominate Jimmy Gurule to be Under Secretary of the Treasury for Enforcement. He is currently a Professor of Criminal Law and Criminal Litigation at Notre Dame Law School. He served as Assistant Attorney General for the Office of Justice Programs from 1990 to 1992 and as Assistant U.S. Attorney in Los Angeles, California, where he was the Deputy Chief of the Major Narcotics Section. He has been awarded the DEA Administrator's Award, the Department of Justice Edmund J. Randolph Award and the Attorney General's Distinguished Service Award. A resident of Niles, Michigan, he is a graduate of the University of Utah and the University of Utah College of Law.
The President intends to nominate Kay Cole James to be Director of the Office of Personnel Management. She is presently a Senior Fellow and Director of The Citizenship Project at the Heritage Foundation and was Chairman of the National Gambling Impact Study Commission from 1997 to 1999. James was appointed by then-Governor George Allen of Virginia to be the Secretary of Health and Human Services in 1994 and was named as the Chairman of the Governor's Empowerment Commission in 1994. She served as Assistant Secretary of Public Affairs at the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services from 1989 to 1990 and is a graduate of Hampton University.
The President intends to nominate Timothy J. Muris to be a Member of the Federal Trade Commission for a seven-year term beginning on September 26, 2001. He is currently a Foundation Professor at George Mason University School of Law and served as the Executive Associate Director of the Office of Management and Budget from 1985 to 1988. He has served at the Federal Trade Commission in the past as Director of both the Bureau of Competition and the Bureau of Consumer Protection. He is a graduate of San Diego State University and received his Law degree from UCLA.
The President intends to nominate Susan B. Neuman to be Assistant Secretary of Education for Elementary and Secondary Education. She is currently a Professor and Director of the Center for the Improvement of Early Reading Achievement at the University of Michigan and in the past has taught at Temple University, Boston College, the University of Massachusetts at Lowell and Yale University. She is a graduate of American University, has a Master's degree from California State University and her Doctorate from the University of the Pacific.
The President intends to nominate Steven A. Perry to be Administrator of General Services. He is currently Senior Vice President of the Timkin Company in Canton, Ohio, and was appointed by then-Governor George Voinovich to be the Director of the Department of Administrative Services for the State of Ohio from 1991 to 1993. He is a graduate of the University of Akron and received a Master's degree from Stanford University.
The President intends to nominate Pierre-Richard Prosper to be Ambassador at Large for War Crimes Issues. He is currently the U.S. State Department Special Counsel and Policy Advisor to the Ambassador at Large for War Crimes Issues. Before joining the Department of State, Mr. Prosper served for over two years as a war crimes prosecutor for the United Nations International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda and he was Assistant U.S. Attorney for the Central District of California in Los Angeles. He is a graduate of Boston College and received his Law degree from Pepperdine University.
The President intends to nominate Brigadier General Francis X. Taylor to be Coordinator for Counterterrorism with the rank of Ambassador at Large. He is currently the Commander of the Air Force Office of Special Investigations and served as the Director of Special Investigations in the Office of the Secretary of the Air Force Inspector General. He has served in the U.S. Air Force since 1970 and received both his undergraduate and Master's degree from the University of Notre Dame.
Additionally, President George W. Bush today announced his designation of Susan Walthall to be Acting Chief Counsel for Advocacy at the Small Business Administration.
  