
    The challenges facing our nation today are among the most difficult of any time in our history. We are fighting wars on two fronts. Our credibility and leadership in the world have been eroded; our alliances are frayed; our armed forces are under strain.
As retired flag and general officers, we have devoted our lives to our country. We have hundreds of thousands of men and women on the front lines that have done the same. At this critical time in our nation's history, our men and women in uniform deserve better than a presidential debate mired in trivia. The stakes are simply too high. As we are poised to choose our next Commander-in-Chief, we should not allow the media to divert attention from the real issues. What matters is who is ready and inspired to lead -- who can be Commander-in -Chief on Day One.
It is imperative that our new President knows how and when to use force and diplomacy judiciously, to know how to deploy the olive branch and the arrow. The President needs to be ready to act swiftly and decisively in a crisis. And we think our next President must restore our moral authority and leadership around the world with the courage to meet with our adversaries when appropriate, and the wisdom to pursue diplomacy wisely.
It is especially important to understand the military and diplomatic challenges facing us in Iraq, and to end the Iraq war responsibly and safely. It is also important to rededicate ourselves to winning in Afghanistan, the forgotten front line in our fight against terrorism.
In these critical areas, it is clear to us that Senator Clinton is the candidate best qualified to be our nation's next Commander-in-Chief.
We believe that she has real understanding of the military through her diligent service on the Senate Armed Services Committee. She has worked tirelessly to ensure our men and women in uniform are properly trained and equipped to be sent to battle. And she has fought to make certain that they are treated with dignity when they return home. We have personally and closely observed her respect for our armed forces, and she has earned their respect. And ours.
We hope that as a country, we will now turn our attention to the critical issues that will determine the future of our great nation.
General Wesley Clark

General Henry Hugh Shelton

Admiral William Owens

Lt. Gen. Joe Ballard

Lt. Gen. Claudia Kennedy

Lt. Gen. Donald Kerrick

Vice Admiral Joseph A. Sestak, Jr.

Major General Roger R. Blunt

Major General George Buskirk, Jr.

Major General Paul D. Eaton

Major General Antonio M. Taguba

Brigadier General Michael Dunn

Brigadier General Evelyn "Pat" Foote

Brigadier General Virgil A. Richard

Brigadier General Jack Yeager

Brigadier General John M. Watkins, Jr.

Rear Admiral Roland G. Guilbault

Rear Admiral Stuart F. Platt

Rear Admiral David Stone
  