
    Pool Reports by Henry Cordes, Omaha World-Herald 



Sent:
Reports:




March 23, 202113:41

Second Gentleman pool report 1
Second Gentleman Doug Emhoff sat down with representatives of a rural hospital in Blair, Nebraska Tuesday to highlight health care provisions of the recently passed American Rescue plan. In addition to increased subsidies under the Affordable Care Act, the plan includes specific provisions for rural health programs during the pandemic, including grants to rural hospitals to assist with vaccination administration, telehealth services and to help them hire workers.
Emhoff started his visit by noting Tuesday is the 11th anniversary of passage of the ACT. He encouraged Nebraskans to look into the ACT provisions of the stimulus plan to see if they are religionless for the increased so subsidies.
"It's worked so well," he said. "And now with President Biden's American Rescue Plan, it's even better."
Emhoff also discussed battling the pandemic and vaccination efforts with hospital administrator Manny Banner, testing and vaccination testing organizer Kelsey Mass and ER nurse Terrin Leehy.
"It's been a roller coaster," Leehy said of her work in the ER. It's been scary, it's been sad, it's been very rewarding."
But the health providers said vaccinations are now creating a lot of hope. Emhoff took the opportunity to encourage Nebraskans to get vaccinated.
"When it's your turn, get the vaccine. It's safe, it's painless and they work."



March 23, 202114:41

Second Gentleman Pool report 2
Emhoff then visited a vaccination site at a local Lutheran church.
Terra Uhing, director of the Three Rivers Public Health Department, explained the difficulty originally faced trying to run a drive-through vaccination clinic in Nebraska's sub freezing temperatures. It didn't work well.
So she was happy when Pastor Scott Fredrickson made his facility at First Lutheran Church available as a vaccination site.
Fredrickson said his church was happy to do it, seeing it as an opportunity to serve its neighbors. "We are making the world a better and safer place."
Uhing told Emhoff the impact of the pandemic will be around for a long time. There are more people dealing with mental health issues and also people who have not taken care of their general health in the past year, including putting off cancer screenings.
"There are so many things that have not taken place the past year. We need to get back to that."
As Emhoff left, he encouraged the vaccination clinic workers.
"Just keep doing what you're doing. We're almost there."



March 23, 202117:05

Final complete pool report
FINAL POOL REPORT
Includes additional information, expands on quotes and corrects ACA reference
Second Gentleman Doug Emhoff sat down with representatives of a rural hospital in Blair, Nebraska Tuesday to highlight health care provisions of the recently passed American Rescue Plan.
The White House fact sheet said in addition to increased subsidies under the Affordable Care Act, the plan includes specific provisions for rural health programs during the pandemic, including grants to rural hospitals to assist with vaccination administration, telehealth services and to help them hire workers.
Emhoff started his visit by noting Tuesday is the 11th anniversary of passage of the ACA. He encouraged Nebraskans to look into the ACA provisions of the stimulus plan to see if they are eligible for the increased subsidies and take advantage of them.
"It's worked so well it's just been amazing," he said. "And now with President Biden's American Rescue Plan, it's even better."
Emhoff also discussed battling the pandemic and vaccination efforts with hospital administrator Manny Banner, testing and vaccination testing organizer Kelsey Mass and ER nurse Terrin Leehy.
"It's been a roller coaster," Leehy said of her work in the ER. It's been scary, it's been sad, it's been very rewarding."
The group talked about the importance of improved rural broadband service for rural telemedicine. The lack of connectivity also been an issue recently because most vaccination signups have been online, they said
"So in the future we're hoping with, with increased broadband access, we will have increased connectivity for those who need it most," Banner said.
Emhoff said rural broadband "has been a recurring theme" as he has traveled the country.
Banner also told him that rural hospitals are also facing a critical shortage of nurses and staff. Banner said saw Emhoff's visit as a way to show staff members that their work over the past year has been important and has not been overlooked.
Emhoff said he had learned that in addition to being the administrator of the rural hospital, Banner, a registered nurse, has also been helping out with vaccine efforts.
"I really applaud you for leading from the front, showing everyone how to do it," he said.
The health providers said vaccinations are now creating a lot of hope in the community. Emhoff took the opportunity to encourage Nebraskans to get vaccinated.
"When it's your turn, get the vaccine. It will save lives, it will save your life, it will help protect frontline workers. It's safe, it's painless and they work."
Emhoff then visited a vaccination site at an adjacent Lutheran church.
Terra Uhing, director of the Three Rivers Public Health Department, explained the difficulty originally faced trying to run a drive-through vaccination clinic in Nebraska's sub freezing temperatures. It didn't work well.
So she was happy when Pastor Scott Fredrickson made his facility at First Lutheran Church available as a vaccination site.
Fredrickson said his church was happy to do it, seeing it as an opportunity to serve its neighbors and "help make the world a better and safer place."
Uhing told Emhoff the impact of the pandemic will be around for a long time. There are more people dealing with mental health issues. And also people who have not taken care of their general health in the past year, including putting off immunizations and cancer screenings.
"There are so many things that have not taken place the past year. We need to get back to that."
She said the pandemic has also shown the importance of preparedness within public health.
"History repeats, itself so we need to make sure we've got the infrastructure and capacity to do what we need to do."
She also talked about what the local health district has done to allow schools to operate safely in person throughout this school year. "We've done it and we've done it well," she said.
Emhoff told Uhing he was glad she mentioned mental health. He said he has been hearing about the toll the stresses of dealing with the pandemic has put on health workers.
"I encourage all of you who have put so much into this to take care of yourselves," he said.
As Emhoff left, he encouraged the vaccination clinic workers.
"Just keep doing what you're doing. We're almost there."




  