
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Kevin Madden (857) 288-6390
Boston, MA – Governor Mitt Romney today announced that Rick Adkins, Kathy Bigham and Paul Thurmond have joined his South Carolina campaign as Statewide Grassroots Co-Chairs. Together, they will help to further develop and build Governor Romney's grassroots operation in the Palmetto State.
"I am very pleased to welcome these talented Republican leaders to my South Carolina campaign effort," said Governor Romney. "With primary day fast approaching, their dedication and hard work will help me to communicate my optimistic vision for America's future to every corner of the state."
Governor Romney also released an expanded list of his South Carolina County Chairs (complete list below).
Background On Governor Romney's South Carolina Statewide Grassroots Co-Chairs:
Rick Adkins Is Chairman Of The Anderson County Republican Party. A real estate professional, Adkins is a veteran of South Carolina politics. He served as the 2002 County Chairman for Peeler for Governor, as the County Chairman for Bush-Cheney 2004 and as a delegate to the 2004 Republican National Convention. He chairs the Anderson County Republican Party as well as the Anderson Interfaith Ministries. He is also a member of the State Board of Education. A graduate of Clemson University, he and his wife, Teresa, have three children.
Kathy Bigham Is A Businesswoman And Trustee Of Winthrop University In Rock Hill. A graduate of Winthrop University, Bigham is president of Thursdays Too restaurant in Rock Hill. A member of the Clinton Junior College Advisory Board, she has served on the Winthrop Eagle Club's Board of Directors, the Wachovia Bank Advisory Board and Rock Hill Chamber of Commerce's Board of Directors. She has served as an executive committee member for the Carolinas Billy Graham Crusade, as co-chair for the Changing South Carolina to fight video poker, and as a member of the Bush for President South Carolina Steering Committee. She and her husband, Larry, have two children and three grandchildren.
Paul Thurmond Is An Attorney Who Serves On The Charleston County Council. A member of the County Council since 2007, Thurmond brings a fiscally conservative viewpoint to issues such as criminal justice, infrastructure improvement and planning for growth. A former Assistant Solicitor with the 9th Circuit Solicitor's Office, he is a partner and shareholder at Thurmond Kirchner & Timbes, P.A. A graduate of the University of South Carolina Law School, he and his wife, Katie, have one son.
New South Carolina County Chairs Named Today:
- Larry Courtney, Chesterfield County
- Betty Cox, Florence County
- Orey Middleton, Hampton County
- Kathy Stedman, Marion County
Complete List Of Governor Romney's South Carolina County Chairs (Updated):
Aiken County
June Cannon
Rick Osbon
Betty Ryberg
Allendale County
Julie Strong
Anderson County
Jane Jones
Bamberg County
Susan Rhoden
Barnwell County
Dan Ross
Beaufort County
Bob Holtzmacher
Berkeley County
Cheryl Ludlam
Senator Bill Mescher
Wayland Moody
Steve Querry
Bill Willcox
Calhoun County
Richard Sweatt
Ruby Sweatt
Charleston County
Daniel Dukes
Councilman Henry Fishburne
Cherokee County
Dr. Sam Swad
Chester County
Tot Kennedy
Alex Stroman
Chesterfield County
Larry Courtney
Clarendon County
Moye Graham
Colleton County
Joe Murrary
Darlington County Scott Anderson
Dillon County
Nevell Rogers
Dorchester County
Tianna Keener
Elizabeth Miller
Edgefield County
Frank Mauer
Fairfield County
Coy Richardson
Florence County
Betty Cox
Mary Tepper
Georgetown County
Paul Hogan
Ricky Horne
Glen O'Connell
Greenville County
Dr. Robert Barnes
Marjorie Barnes
Councilman Joe Dill
Joe Haynes
Greenwood County
James Gardner
Michelle Oxner
Randy Oxner
Hampton County
Orey Middleton
Horry County
Representative Alan Clemmons
Jasper County
Keith Dubose
Kershaw County
James D'Alessio
Lancaster County
Sara Fleming
Al Simpson
Laurens County Patrick Garrison
Lee County
Charlene Privette
Lexington County
Dr. Scott Andersen
Representative Nikki Haley
Representative Chip Huggins
Tim Miller
Representative Ted Pitts
Robert Schaeffer
Irby Schultz
Bill Shealy
Verona Shealy
Shirley Smith
Ottis Smith
Marion County
Kathy Stedman
McCormick County
Mid Self
Newberry County
Margaret Brackett
Senator Ronnie Cromer
Betty Dominick
Alan Gardner
Charles Simmons
Oconee County
Steve Sokol
Orangeburg County
Roy Lindsey
Chester Palmer
Barbara Strickland
Pickens County
Senator Larry Martin
Johnathan Strange
Richland County
Representative Nathan Ballentine
Denise Jones
Wanda Forbes
Grace Rentiers
Saluda County
Brandy Shealy
Spartanburg County
June Bond
Marlene Saad
Sumter County
Jimmy Byrd
Union County Les Anderson
York County
Rod Benfield

  