
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
March 20
In the evening, the President attended the annual Gridiron Club dinner in the Presidential Ballroom at the Capital Hilton Hotel.
March 21
In the afternoon, the President went to Camp David, MD, where he spent the day meeting with members of the foreign policy team and had telephone conversations with Prime Minister Tony Blair of the United Kingdom, President Jacques Chirac of France, and Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder of Germany on the situation in Kosovo.
The White House announced that the President sent a letter to President Boris Yeltsin of Russia concerning the situation in Kosovo.
March 22
In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC.
March 23
In the morning, the President met with members of the foreign policy team in the President's Study. Later, he met with Members of Congress in the Yellow Oval Room.
In the afternoon, the President met with Chairman Yasser Arafat of the Palestinian Authority in the Oval Office.
The President announced his intent to nominate T. Michael Kerr to be Administrator of the Wage and Hour Division at the Labor Department.
The President announced his intent to nominate Irasema Garza to be Director of the Women's Bureau at the Labor Department.
The President announced his intent to nominate Edward B. Montgomery to be Assistant Secretary for Policy at the Labor Department.
March 24
In the morning, the President met with his national security team in the Oval Office. Later, he had a telephone conversation with President Boris Yeltsin of Russia concerning the situation in Kosovo. Later, the President was briefed again by National Security Adviser Samuel Berger in the Oval Office.
March 25
The President announced his intent to nominate Johnnie E. Frazier to be Inspector General of the Commerce Department.
March 26
In the morning, the President met with members of the national security team in the Oval Office.
The President announced his intention to appoint Harold Hongju Koh as Commissioner on the Commission for Security and Cooperation in Europe.
The White House announced that the President will host an official visit by the Premier Zhu Rongji of China on April 6-14, including a White House visit on April 8.
  