
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate four individuals to serve in his administration and his appointment of one individual.
The President intends to nominate Mark B. McClellan to be a member of the Council of Economic Advisors. He is currently an Associate Professor in the Department of Economics and the Department of Medicine at Stanford University. McClellan is an attending physician at the Stanford University Health Services and the Director of the Program on Health Outcomes Research at Stanford Medical School. He served at the Treasury Department from 1998 to 1999 as Deputy Assistant Secretary for Economic Policy. Originally from Austin, Texas, he is a graduate of the University of Texas at Austin, received his Master's of Public Administration from Harvard University, received his M.D. from the Harvard-MIT Division of Health Science and Technology and earned his Ph.D. in Economics from MIT.
The President intends to nominate John E. Robson to be President of the Export Import Bank. He is presently a Senior Advisor with the San Francisco based investment-banking firm of Robertson Stephens. Robson served under former President Bush as Deputy Secretary of the Treasury and was Dean and a Professor of Management at the Emory University School of Business from 1986 to 1988. He served as Chairman of the U.S. Civil Aeronautics Board from 1975 to 1977 and was Under Secretary of Transportation and from 1967 to 1969. He is a graduate of Yale University and received his J.D. from Harvard Law School.
The President intends to nominate Anna Maria Farias to be Assistant Secretary of Housing and Urban Development for Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity. She is presently a State Commissioner on the Texas Commission on Human Rights and was most recently the Executive Director of the Housing Authority of the city of Crystal City, Texas. Farias served as a member of the Wage Appeals Board and Board of Service Contract Appeals within the Department of Labor from 1992 to 1993 and was Counsel to a member of the National Labor Relations Board from 1989 to 1992. A Texas native she is a graduate of Boston University and Temple University Law School.
The President intends to appoint Earl Floyd Kvamme to be Co-Chair and Member of the President's Committee of Advisors on Science and Technology. He is currently a Partner with the Menlo Park California firm of Kleiner Perkins Caufield and Byers. Kvamme was named Executive Vice President of Sales and Marketing at Apple Computer in 1982 and was part of the original team that started National Semiconductor and served as General Manager of Semiconductor Operations. He is a resident of Saratoga, California, and holds engineering degrees from the University of California at Berkeley and Syracuse University.
  