
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate four individuals to serve in his administration.
The President intends to nominate Peter R. Fisher to be Under Secretary of the Treasury for Domestic Finance. He is currently Executive Vice President of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York where he serves as the manager of the System Open Market Account for the Federal Open Market Committee. He has served the Federal Reserve Bank for fifteen years in a variety of positions. He is a resident of Mapelwood, New Jersey and a graduate of Harvard University and Harvard Law School.
The President intends to nominate J. Steven Griles to be Deputy Secretary of the Interior. He is currently a Principal at National Environmental Strategies and the President of J. Steven Giles and Associates. He served at the Department of the Interior under former President Reagan as the Assistant Secretary for Lands and Minerals Management, as Deputy Assistant Secretary for Land and Water and as Deputy Director of the Office of Surface Mining. He is a graduate of the University of Richmond.
The President intends to nominate Bill Hansen to be Deputy Secretary of Education. He is presently the Executive Director and CEO of the Education Finance Council. He served in the Department of Education from 1981 to 1993, excluding one year of service as Deputy Director for Public Affairs at the Department of Commerce from 1988 to 1989. At the Department of Education he served in several positions including Assistant Secretary for Management and Budget and Chief Financial Officer from 1991 to 1993, Acting Assistant Secretary for Legislative and Congressional Affairs and Acting Deputy Under Secretary for Planning, Budget and Evaluation. He has been appointed to a number of government education commissions including the Virginia Governor's Champion Schools Commission and the Virginia Commission on the Future of Public Schools. He is a graduate of George Mason University.
The President intends to nominate Sean B. O'Hollaren as Assistant Secretary of Transportation for Government Affairs. He is presently the Director of Washington Affairs for Tax and Environment for Union Pacific Corporation. He served former Senator Mark Hatfield from 1984 to 1990 before becoming the Minority Clerk for the Senate Appropriations Committee from 1990- 1991. He is a graduate of Willamette University in Salem, Oregon.
  