
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Kevin Madden (857) 288 - 6390
Boston, MA – Today, Claire Austin was named an Alabama Adviser to Governor Mitt Romney's presidential campaign. A veteran of Alabama politics, Austin will help Governor Romney add to the strong base of support he has built within the state.
"Claire Austin is a well-known and respected figure in Montgomery and across Alabama," said State Treasurer Kay Ivey, the Alabama State Chair of the Romney for President Campaign. "She has diverse and broad campaign experience on successful campaigns that include our U.S. Senator Jeff Sessions and Attorney General Bill Pryor and strong working relationships that will make her a valuable asset to Governor Romney's team."
With today's announcement, Claire Austin said, "Governor Romney's strong conservative record and principled stands on the issues make him a very appealing candidate to the people of Alabama. He is an inspiring leader who has a bold vision to change Washington. I look forward to working with the Governor and the other members of his team as we communicate his optimistic agenda to our fellow Alabamians."
Background On Claire Austin :
An Alabama Native, Claire Austin Has Extensive Experience In Public Affairs, State Government And Campaign Management. Austin is head of The Austin Group. Prior to the formation of The Austin Group, she served as Director of Legislation and Public Affairs for the Alabama Office Of Attorney General under Attorneys General Jeff Sessions and Bill Pryor. She was an Assistant Finance Director for Governor Fob James and was National Media Relations Director and National Football League Liaison for United Way of America. She served in the administrations of Presidents Reagan and George H.W. Bush.
Austin has worked on a number of Alabama campaigns. In 1996, she was the Deputy Campaign Manager and Communications Director for U.S. Senator Jeff Sessions' Senate Campaign. She served as the Campaign Manager and Finance Director for Attorney General Bill Pryor's 1998 run for Attorney General. In 2006, Austin was Campaign Manager for Representative Mac Gipson. She is a graduate of Auburn University.

  