
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate five individuals and appoint 23 individuals to serve in his administration:
The President intends to nominate John F. Maisto of Pennsylvania, to be the Permanent Representative of the United States to the Organization of American States, with the rank of Ambassador. Ambassador Maisto currently serves on the National Security Council as Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for Western Hemisphere Affairs. Prior to his appointment to the NSC, he served as the United States Ambassador to Venezuela and as Ambassador to Nicaragua. He also previously served as Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for Central American Affairs. Ambassador Maisto was recognized with the Superior Honor Award in 1998 and 1982, the Superior Group Award in 1988 and the Meritorious Honor Award in 1986. He received his bachelor's degree from Georgetown University's School of Foreign Service and his master's degree from the University of San Carlos, Guatemala.
The President intends to nominate John F. Bardelli of Connecticut, to be United States Marshal for the District of Connecticut, for a term of four years. Mr. Bardelli currently serves as a consultant for the Commission on Accreditation for Law Enforcement Agencies. In 2001, after a 35-year career with the Connecticut Department of Public Safety, Mr. Bardelli retired as Deputy Commissioner of Public Safety and Commanding Officer of State Police. He currently serves as an active member of the International Association of Chiefs of Police and as a lifetime member of the Connecticut Police Chiefs Association. Mr. Bardelli is a graduate of the University of New Haven, and received his law degree from the University of Connecticut.
The President intends to nominate Adam N. Torres of California, to be United States Marshal for the Central District of California, for a term of four years. Mr. Torres currently serves as Supervisory Special Agent for Criminal Investigations with the Internal Revenue Service. He is responsible for overseeing criminal investigations of sophisticated financial crimes and criminal organizations, including violations of internal revenue laws, Bank Secrecy Act and other related financial crimes. He is a member of both the Federal Law Enforcement Officers' Association and the National Latino Police Officers' Association. Mr. Torres is a graduate of California State University, San Bernardino.
The President intends to nominate Robert N. Davis of Florida, to be a Judge of the United States Court of Appeals for Veterans Claims, for a term prescribed by law. Mr. Davis currently serves as Professor of Law at Stetson University College of Law. His past teaching appointments include the University of Mississippi School of Law and Georgetown University Law Center. Earlier in his career he served as Special Assistant to the U. S. Attorney for the District of Columbia and as General Attorney for the U.S. Department of Education. Mr. Davis currently serves in the United States Navy Reserve Intelligence Program. He is a graduate of the University of Hartford and earned his law degree from the Georgetown University Law Center.
The President intends to nominate Marsha E. Barnes of Maryland, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Suriname. Ms. Barnes currently serves as Assessor for the Board of Examiners at the Department of State. Her previous domestic assignments include Director of the Office of Caribbean Affairs and Deputy Executive Director of the Bureau of Consular Affairs. She has served overseas as Chief of the Consular Section in Bonn and as a visa officer in Moscow. Ms. Barnes graduated from Lake Forest College in Lake Forest, Illinois.
The President intends to appoint Gary Ray Mitchell of Kansas, to be the Federal Member of the Kansas-Nebraska Big Blue River Compact Administration (Kansas and Nebraska).
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the Advisory Committee on the Arts, John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts: Joan D. Austin of Oregon Kristen A. Avansino of Nevada Kathryn Burke of Wisconsin Robert J. Dellenback of Wyoming Mary Galvin of Illinois Janet H. Geary of Oregon Arthur J. Hackney of Alaska Diana Kelley of Kansas Arthur K. Langlie of Washington James V. Nepola of Iowa Sandy Peltyn of Nevada Evelyn J. Wiginton of Alabama
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the United States Holocaust Memorial Council: For the remainder of a five-year term expiring 01/15/08: Debra Lerner Cohen of the District of Columbia Solomon M. Devinki of Missouri Donald Etra of California David M. Flaum of New York Eric F. Ross of New Jersey Richard Sambol of New Jersey Merryl H. Tisch of New York
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the Commission for the Preservation of America's Heritage Abroad: The President intends to appoint Gary J. Lavine of New York (Speaker), for the remainder of a three-year term expiring August 2, 2005. The President intends to appoint Rachmiel Liberman of Massachusetts (Senate President Pro Tempore), for the remainder of a three-year term expiring July 13, 2005. The President intends to appoint Harriet Rotter of Michigan (Speaker), for the remainder of a three-year term expiring August 9, 2004.
  