
    "Mitt is the only one in the race who knows how to create jobs. He's the only one who's put forward a bold plan to do that. If you look at Mitt Romney's economic plan, what it does is it lowers taxes for everyone who pays income taxes. It will result in reduced red tape for small businesses. It will get us back on track. That's why I think that Mitt Romney is the man for this year." — House Majority Leader Eric Cantor
"Meet The Press"
NBC
March 4, 2012
Click Here To Watch House Majority Leader Cantor Endorse Mitt Romney
House Majority Leader Eric Cantor On "Meet The Press"
NBC'S DAVID GREGORY: "Joining me now, House Majority Leader, Republican Congressman, Eric Cantor of Virginia. Mr. Leader, welcome back to ‘Meet the Press.'"
HOUSE MAJORITY LEADER ERIC CANTOR: "David, it's good to be here."
GREGORY: "So, big primary on Tuesday. You have not chosen sides here in this Republican nomination fight. Are you prepared to say who you're with this morning?"
CANTOR: "David, yes. Because what I have seen as you said a very hard fought primary throughout the last couple months, and we have seen now that the central issue of this campaign is about the economy, and the country has got to make a choice. Who is going to be best able to lead this economy back to a growth mode, create jobs so people can feel better about the future? And I just think there's one candidate in the race who can do that, and that's Mitt Romney. Mitt Romney is the only candidate in the race who's put forward a bold pro-growth, pro-jobs plan for the future. A lot of the things that he is talking about in his plan we are working on in the House of Representatives. And that's why I look to Super Tuesday. I look to Mitt Romney winning all of Virginia's delegates. In fact, I cast my vote already in Virginia for Mitt Romney. And I'm here to today to tell you that I am endorsing Mitt Romney in his candidacy for the presidency of the United States."
GREGORY: "Why do you think he uniquely can beat President Obama?"
CANTOR: "Mitt is the only one in the race who knows how to create jobs. He's the only one who's put forward a bold plan to do that. If you look at Mitt Romney's economic plan, what it does is it lowers taxes for everyone who pays income taxes. It will result in reduced red tape for small businesses. It will get us back on track. That's why I think that Mitt Romney is the man for this year. I believe this is a historic election. There's no question about it, the kinds of challenges we face. He is the only one in the race who has put forward these kinds of solutions, and I think he can beat Barack Obama in November."
  