
    "After watching gas prices more than double, President Obama has begun a cross-country trip to rewrite history on his own energy record. But no amount of excuses and election-year promises can change the fact that this President is to blame for stifling oil production and driving up prices at the pump. Americans need a president who knows how to implement pro-growth energy policies, not someone who can only make excuses for their failed record." —Andrea Saul, Romney Campaign Spokesperson
Today, President Obama Is Traveling To New Mexico To Discuss Expanded Oil And Gas Production:
President Obama Will Travel To New Mexico To Highlight Oil And Gas Production. "Obama will travel to oil and gas production fields on federal lands outside of Maljamar, which is part of the Permian Basin, the nation's second-largest oil-producing region after Alaska. In a press release, the White House said the president's stop will 'highlight the Administration's commitment to expanding domestic oil and gas production, which has increased each year he has been in office, with domestic oil production currently at an eight year high and domestic natural gas production at an all-time high.'" (Jeri Clausing, "President Obama To Visit New Mexico Oil Fields," The Associated Press, 3/20/12)
But The Obama Administration's Oil And Gas Production Is "Occurring On State And Private Lands" And Is Due To Leases Signed Before His Time In Office:
Oil And Natural Gas Production On Federal Lands Decreased Between 2010 And 2011. "The report shows that crude oil production and natural gas production on Federal lands both fell between 2010 and 2011. In fact, federal lands produced less crude oil in fiscal 2011 than they did in fiscal 2003. Natural gas production on federal land is also well below both three and eight years ago." (Joel Gehrke, "DOE Report On Energy Contradicts WH, Salazar," The Washington Examiner, 3/15/12)


    "Production Of Natural Gas On Public Lands And Waters In Fiscal 2011 Dropped 11 Percent From The Previous Year, According To Interior Department Data. Oil Production Dipped Nearly 14 Percent." (Phil Taylor, "Production On Federal Tracts Fell In 2011," Greenwire, 2/27/12)
  

"Much Of The New Production Appears To Be Occurring On State And Private Lands..." "But much of the new production appears to be occuring on state and private lands in oil-rich places such as North Dakota and Texas, rather than in the federally controlled Gulf. Others have noted that increases on public lands should be attributed to the leasing and permitting decisions of previous administrations, given the long lead time to develop energy projects." (Phil Taylor, "Production On Federal Tracts Fell In 2011," Greenwire, 2/27/12)
"Much Of That Drilling Is Taking Place Due To Leases Finalized During The George W. Bush Administration..." "What Obama fails to mention, and Republicans want to spotlight, is that much of that drilling is taking place due to leases finalized during the George W. Bush administration, and much of it takes place on private land, with little action by the federal government." (Coral Davenport, "Obama In Full Crisis-Control Mode On Gas Prices," National Journal, 3/15/12)
Oil Production In The Gulf Of Mexico Declined By Nearly 17%. "The reduction in oil production was most significant in the Gulf of Mexico, where it declined nearly 17 percent to 514 million barrels from 618 million barrels in 2010." (Phil Taylor, "Production On Federal Tracts Fell In 2011," Greenwire, 2/27/12)


    Gulf Production Is "Projected To Be Down 30% In 2012" Compared To Forecasted Figures From Before The Obama Moratorium. "API cited figures from the U.S. Energy Information Agency indicating that oil production in the Gulf was down 22% in 2011 and projected to be down 30% in 2012 as compared to production forecasts before the Obama administration imposed a moratorium on deepwater drilling after the BP disaster." (Jonathan Tilove, "Gulf Of Mexico Back To 'Robust' Oil Production, Obama Administration Says," The [New Orleans] Times-Picayune, 3/13/12)
  

The Result Of These Failed Policies? Gas Prices That Have More Than Doubled Under President Obama:
Since President Obama Took Office, Gas Prices Have More Than Doubled — From Approximately $1.85 Per Gallon To $3.87 Per Gallon. (U.S. Energy Information Administration, www.eia.gov, Accessed 3/20/12)
Gas Prices Have Hit "A Record For This Time Of Year." "U.S. gas prices have jumped 8.8 percent since the start of this year, according to the Energy Information Agency, topping an average of $3.65 a gallon in the week ended February 22. This was a record for this time of the year, when prices are usually on the low side because of slow seasonal demand." (Nivedita Bhattacharjee, "Analysis: Gas Prices Siphon Sales From Restaurants," Reuters, 2/29/12)
  