
    Pool Reports by Niels Lesniewski, CQ Roll Call 



Sent:
Reports:




March 17, 202211:14

In-town pool report #1 - gathering 
Happy St. Patrick's Day.
As my colleague from the foreign pool has advised, the scheduled meeting between POTUS and the Taoiseach has moved virtual. We're gathering for a pool spray for that now.
The updated schedule has a quick movement after this event for the pool to get to the motorcade for the trip to the Capitol for the Friends of Ireland Luncheon, so your pooler will send what he can but the video may come in more quickly.



March 17, 202211:34

In-town pool report #2 
Pool entered the Oval Office at 11:22 a.m.
POTUS was seated adjacent to a TV monitor that featured the Taoiseach, with the bowl of Shamrock sitting on a coffee table.
The president said he was "deeply sorry for the inconvenience" for the virtual format. POTUS spoke first about the situation in Ukraine.
POTUS also spoke of the uniquivocal support for the Good Friday accords, saying too much in the way of "blood, sweat and tears" have been shed for that too change.
The Taoiseach then spoke, noting the oddity of having a virtual meeting across the road.
No questions.
Members of the pool were literally shoved out of the Oval Office at 11:29 am.



March 17, 202211:57

In-town pool report #3 
The pool is now gathering for the departure to the Capitol as of 11"55 a.m.
Some quotes from the Oval Office:
"We're meeting at a moment where the demands of unity in the world are really accelerating," POTUS said.
"Putin's brutality, and what he's doing, and what his troops are doing in Ukraine, is just inhumane," Biden said, also praising Ireland's support for sanctions against Russia.
And as for the next event on the St. Patrick's Day agenda, for awareness here's a statement from Speaker Pelosi's spokesperson Drew Hammill about the luncheon:
"In consultation with the Office of Attending Physician, the Speaker will continue regular testing and follow CDC guidance. The Friends of Ireland Lunch today will proceed but without the participation of the Taoiseach."



March 17, 202212:20

In-town pool report #4 - motorcade rolling
The motorcade left the White House grounds at 12:19 p.m.



March 17, 202212:32

In-town pool report #5
The pool arrived at the Capitol at 12:23 p.m. We did not see the president enter the Capitol building.
After holding in Statuary Hall, where we heard bagpipes playing, we entered the Rayburn Room at 12:29 p.m. as Speaker Pelosi was beginning proceedings. POTUS is seated to her right.
And from the White House:
Traveling with the President to the Capitol:Louisa Terrell, Assistant to the President & Director of the Office of Legislative AffairsAnnie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office OperationsKurt Campbell, Deputy Assistant to the President & Coordinator for the Indo-PacificTravis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip DirectorStephen Goepfert, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the PresidentMeghan Hays, Special Assistant to the President & Director of Message PlanningAshley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office Operations



March 17, 202212:41

In-town pool report #6 -event ongoing
There's streaming video of the event.
Numerous members of the House and Senate are seated at tables with a plated salad course already on the tables.
From the White House:
Attendees at the Annual Friends of Ireland Luncheon include members of Congress and guests from the Irish Embassy, Northern Ireland Bureau, and the British Embassy.
Seated with the President:Brandon Lewis, Secretary of State for Northern Ireland & Member of Parliament for Great YarmouthHouse Speaker Nancy PelosiSenator Patrick Leahy (VT)Rep. Richie Neal (MA-01), co-chair of the Friends of Ireland CaucusRep Mike Kelly (PA-16), co-chair of the Friends of Ireland Caucus



March 17, 202213:09

In-town pool report #7 - POTUS remarks
POTUS stepped to the lectern to speak at about 12:44 p.m., following a prayer and an introduction from Speaker Pelosi.
Biden said he ultimately spoke to the Taoiseach for about 45 minutes before the trip to the Capitol.
During his remarks, POTUS referred to Russian President Vladimir Putin as both a "murderous dictator" and "pure thug." The video is widely available.
He finished his remarks at 12:59 p.m. and the pool was ushered back toward the vans as Pelosi was offering a toast. We were back in the vans as of 1:04 p.m. and the motorcade is rolling at 1:07 p.m.
From the White House:
Those who greeted the President upon arrival to the Capitol:Speaker Nancy PelosiRep. Richie Neal (MA-01), co-chair of the Friends of Ireland CaucusRep. David Joyce (OH-14), co-chair of the Friends of Ireland CaucusGeneral William Walker, House Sergeant at Arms
(As a reminder, the arrival was out of view of the pool)



March 17, 202213:18

In-town pool report #8 - back at the WH
Motorcade was back at the White House as of 1:13 p.m.



March 17, 202213:55

In-town pool report #9 - briefing update 
Briefing update from the White House:
The daily press briefing will now begin after the Secretary of State's remarks conclude.



March 17, 202214:55

In-town pool report #10 - 2 minute warning
2 minute warning for the White House press briefing was announced at 2:53 p.m.



March 17, 202215:51

In-town pool report #11 - briefing over
The briefing concluded at 3:49 p.m.



March 17, 202217:08

In-town pool report #12 - gathering
Members of the press pool, this time joined by pre-credentialed media, have gathered again for what's now billed as a St. Patrick's Day event.
The event was scheduled for 5 p.m. in the East Room.
The event should be streaming on the White House website.



March 17, 202217:42

In-town pool report #13 - two minute warning
The press entered the East Room at 5:35 p.m. Two minute warning as of 5:41 p.m.
The room is filled with seated guests. We are waiting for the event to get underway.



March 17, 202217:46

In-town pool report #14
The president and first lady entered at 5:42 p.m., with FLOTUS speaking first, starting a minute later.
Here's what we're anticipating for the run of show, per the White House:
The First Lady
The President
Taoiseach Martin (pre-recorded remarks)
Patricia Treacy, Irish violinist
Irish dance group Cairde



March 17, 202217:50

In-town pool report #15 - guests
POTUS began speaking at 5:47 p.m.
From the White House:
In attendance for the Saint Patrick's Day Event hosted by the President and the First Lady:

Secretary of Labor Marty Walsh
Speaker Nancy Pelosi (CA-12)
Senator Bob Casey (PA)
Senator Mark Kelly (AZ)
Senator Chris Coons (CT)
Senator Patrick Leahy (VT)
House Majority Leader Steny Hoyer (MD-05)
Representative Mikie Sherrill (NJ-11)
Representative Kevin Brady (TX-08)
Representative Thomas O'Halleran (AZ-01)
Representative Peter Welch (VT-AL)
Representative Richard Neal (MA-01)
Representative Lori Trahan (MA-03)
Representative Paul Tonko (NY-20)
Representative Susan Wild (PA-07)
Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18)
Representative Mary Gay Scanlon (PA-05)
Representative Conor Lamb (PA-24)
Representative Joe Courtney (CT-02)
Representative Tom Suozzi (NY-03)
Representative Brian Higgins (NY-26)
Representative Dan Kildee (MI-05)
Representative Brendan Boyle (PA-02)
Representative Bill Keating (MA-09)
Representative Jim McGovern (MA-02)
Representative Mike Kelly (PA-16)
Representative Seth Moulton (MA-06)
Administration officials, state and local elected officials, and community leaders




March 17, 202218:34

In-town pool report #16
The president finished his remarks at 6:03 p.m.
POTUS spent much of the time recalling stories, but he did speak again about the efforts of the U.S. and Ireland to support Ukraine and Ukrainian refugees.
After that, a pre-recorded message from the Taoiseach played on a big screen, behind the Bowl of Shamrock.
POTUS then briefly greeted guests before the first musical performance, from violinist Patricia Treacy. The dance performance followed.
The performers received standing ovations from the crowd, being greeted on stage by POTUS and FLOTUS immediately after.
FLOTUS invited the guests for food and drink at 6:31 p.m. and the press left just after.



March 17, 202218:42

In-town pool report #17 - lid
Travel/photo lid called at 6:39 p.m.
C-SPAN has the video posted that includes the music and dancing performance portion of the St. Patrick's Day event.




 
Pool Reports below by Marek Walkuski, Polskie Radio 



Sent:
Reports:




March 17, 202200:19

Foreign pool report #1 - Taoiseach tested positive for Covid 
Hello and happy very early St. Patrick's Day! It's just after midnight here in Washington, DC.
The Prime Minister of Ireland Micheál Martin was scheduled to visit the White House on Thursday for a meeting with President Biden in the Oval Office and the annual Shamrock presentation. The visit probably won't take place, as the Taoiseach tested positive for Covid last night, and had to leave the 30th Ireland Funds Gala event at the National Building Museum.
On Wednesday afternoon the Irish Prime Minister tested negative on an antigen test, but he was re-tested after a member of his delegation tested positive, per Irish Embassy. The second, more reliable PCR test gave positive result, and the meeting between POTUS and the Taoiseach will now probably be held virtually. The White House has not announced any changes to the schedule yet.
The Irish Prime Minister is spending the night at the Blair House. Ireland's ambassador Dan Mulhall said the Taoiseach was feeling well, the Irish Times reported.



March 17, 202208:22

Foreign pool report # 1b - statement on Taoiseach tersting positive for Cocvid 
The Irish government press secretary issued the following statement following Prime Minister of Ireland Micheàl Martin's positive Covid test last night:
"The Taoiseach tested positive this evening following a PCR test for Covid-19.
He had earlier received a negative result during a scheduled covid test for the travelling delegation on Wednesday afternoon.
The Taoiseach had also received a negative PCR test result on Sunday, taken before travel to the US.
However, a further test was carried out when one of the Taoiseach's delegation received a positive test, which resulted in a later positive result for the Taoiseach.
He is feeling well and is currently self isolating on public health advice.
We are exploring alternatives to the in-person programme of events".



March 17, 202209:35

Foreign pool report #1c - schedule change 
Following PM of Ireland Micheàl Martin's positive test for Covid, the White House has just updated POTUS's schedule former today. The bilateral meeting with the Taoiseach will now be VIRTUAL at 11:00 AM.



March 17, 202210:07

Foreign pool report #2 - background on PM of Ireland virtual meeting with POTUS 
As you already know, the Prime Minister of Ireland Micheál Martin tested positive for Covid last night, and his meeting with President Biden at the Oval Office will now be held virtually. Neither he, nor his delegation will visit the White House. We are still expecting a restricted in-house pool spray at the top.
Taoiseach Martin began his visit to the United States on Monday. He traveled to Washington from London, where he attended several events marking St. Patrick's Day in the UK, and held a bilateral meeting with British Prime Minister Boris Johnson.
On Tuesday and Wednesday Micheál Martin took part in a series of cultural programs and roundtable discussions hosted by business groups and Irish-American organizations. He also unveiled a new bust of the former The Social Democratic and Labour Party leader John Hume at the Irish Embassy in DC. Last night he showed up at the Ireland Funds 30th National Gala at the National Building Museum, but had to leave the event after learning that he tested positive for Covid.
Schedule: 
The virtual meeting between Prime Minister Martin and President Biden at the Oval Office is scheduled for 11:00 AM. At 12:00 PM the Irish Prime Minister was supposed to join the annual Friends of Ireland Celebration hosted by Speaker Nancy Pelosi. It's not clear at the moment if he will speak virtually or not. POTUS will deliver remarks at the event in person at 12:10 AM, according to the WH schedule.
The event will be livestreamed here: >https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=argm8ZjvXDU<.
At 5:00 PM President Biden and the First Lady will host traditional Shamrock presentation at the East Room.
On the agenda:
The White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki said in a statement that both leaders will reaffirm the close and historic partnership between the United States and Ireland. "They will discuss their countries' contributions to the international effort to support the people of Ukraine and to impose costs on Russia for its unprovoked and unjustified war" – she added. According to the White House, other topics include COVID-19 pandemic, climate crisis, Good Friday Agreement, and cooperation at the U.N. Security Council.
After arriving in Washington, Taoiseach Martin said that his meeting with President Biden will be dominated by the Russian invasion of Ukraine. On Tuesday he held the virtual Cabinet meeting to discuss Ireland's response to the war in Ukraine, including how to help refugees. The government has agreed to take in 500 additional Ukrainian refugees from Moldova, in addition to 6600 who arrived in Ireland since the beginning of the war.
On Wednesday Prime Minister Martin spoke to the Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy over the phone. During the 20-minute call, Martin told Zelensky that Ireland would show its support for Ukraine in any way it could. Zelenskyy expressed his condolences to the Taoiseach over the death of journalist Pierre Zakrzewski, who was an Irish citizen.



March 17, 202210:56

Foreign pool report #3 - gathering / pronunciation 
The pool is gathering at the James Brady Briefing Room for the virtual bilateral meeting between President Joe Biden and the Prime Minister of Ireland Micheál Martin. The entire Irish delegation will not attend, as they are considered closed contact with the Taoiseach.
Pronunciation:
Last year I asked Ireland's Ambassador to the U.S. Daniel Mulhall for a short tutorial on how to pronounce Irish Prime Minister's Gaelic first name Micheál, and his title Taoiseach. If you still need some practice please follow the link:
https://www.dropbox.com/s/0uxvuajcsse9qyr/Tutorial.mov?dl=0



March 17, 202211:48

Foreign pool report #4 - Oval remarks 
The pool entered the oval office at 11:22AM. President Biden was seated in a chair, the crystal bowl of shamrocks was placed on a table at his side. Prime minister Martin appeared next to POTUS on a large television screen. Both men wore green ties with a small boutonniere of shamrock on the lapel of their jackets.
POTUS said that he was deeply sorry for the inconvenience that they have to meet virtually again this year. In his remarks he emphasized the need for the unity against Russian invasion of Ukraine and Putin's brutality. He reiterated his support for the Good Friday Agreement and complemented Ireland for taking in Ukrainian refugees.
PM Martin said that what's going on in Ukraine is heart wrenching and thanked POTUS for his leadership in uniting the West against Russian aggression. "I think it's extremely important that we keep this unity of purpose" – he said. Martin also thank POTUS for his support for the Good Friday Agreement.
The pool left the Oval Office at 11:29 AM. The President did not answer questions.
As usual, check the quotes against the official transcript.



March 17, 202212:20

Foreign pool report #5 - fuller quotes from the Oval Office
Fuller quotes from the Oval Office:
POTUS on the virtual format:I'm really deeply sorry for the inconvenience that we have to meet virtually again this year.
POTUS on Ukraine:"We're meeting in a moment when demands for unity in the world are really accelerating, and we have to be united, and we certainly are. But Putin, the brutality of what he's doing, and his troops are doing Ukraine, it's just inhumane".
POTUS on Good Friday Agreement:"I want to emphasize this administration's unequivocal support for the Good Friday accords, the Good Friday Agreement. I've made that clear. (…) I think too much blood, sweat, and tears have been shed to get that done. And this is no time to change."
POTUS on refugees:"What Ireland is doing now, what you are doing, taking in Ukrainian refugees, speaks so loudly about your principles, and it's amazing. I want to publicly compliment you. I think you've already brought in over 7000 refugees from Ukraine, and you're prepared to do more, so thank you".
Martin on virtual format:"Last year, we met virtually across the Atlantic. This year, virtually across the road. So we're getting closer".
Martin on Ukraine:"I share with you our horror at barbaric attacks on civilians in Ukraine, and I want to take this opportunity to genuinely salute your leadership that is firm, determined, strong and measured (…) .And particularly your capacity to marshal like minded democracies. The U.S, the European Union, United Kingdom, Canada and other like minded democracies are coming together to respond in an unprecedented way to this barbaric attack on the women and children of Ukraine and the young people, who are dying in this unjustified and immoral war".
Martin on Good Friday Agreement:"I also just thank you, again, in respect of the Good Friday Agreement, your steadfast support and that of the Speaker Pelosi and our friends on the hill".
As always, please check the quotes against the official transcript.



March 17, 202217:38

Foreign pool report #6 - background on the Shamrock presentation
The pool and pre-credentialled media have gathered in the East Room at 5:35 PM for the annual Shamrock Bowl presentation to the U.S. President. Looks looks like about 150-200 guests are in the room.
As we are wiating for POTUS, here is some background information on this tradition:
The beginning of St. Patrick's Day shamrock presentation at the White House dates back to 1952, when the Irish ambassador to Washington John Hearne sent a small box of shamrock to President Truman. Over the years a low-key ceremony, usually involving ambassadors, grew in significance and became the platform for cementing US-Irish relationship and emphasizing American involvement in Irish affairs, especially during The Troubles. President Bill Clinton, for whom the peace talks became a foreign-policy priority, expanded St. Patrick's Day celebrations to include joint visit to the Capitol for the annual FFriends of Ireland Congressional Caucus Luncheon, and a reception at the White House for the Irish - American community. Since 1993 all successive Irish Taoiseach's have made annual trips to Washington around St. Patrick's Day. Last year, because of Covid pandemic, Prime Minister Martin took part in the St. Patrick's Day celebrations virtually from Dublin.
Today, following his positive test for Covid, the Taoiseach will speak virtually again. This time from the Blair House, located across the street from the White House.
But the crystal bowl of shamrock is physically present in the East Room.



March 17, 202218:10

Foreign pool report #7 - guests in the East Room
In addition to the list of guests provided by the White House (see below), I spotted the Irish Ambasador Daniel Mulhall, seating in the first row, wear tight N-95 mask. He is on of very few masked guests at the Event.
In attendance for the Saint Patrick's Day Event hosted by the President and the First Lady:

Secretary of Labor Marty Walsh
Speaker Nancy Pelosi (CA-12)
Senator Bob Casey (PA)
Senator Mark Kelly (AZ)
Senator Chris Coons (CT)
Senator Patrick Leahy (VT)
House Majority Leader Steny Hoyer (MD-05)
Representative Mikie Sherrill (NJ-11)
Representative Kevin Brady (TX-08)
Representative Thomas O'Halleran (AZ-01)
Representative Peter Welch (VT-AL)
Representative Richard Neal (MA-01)
Representative Lori Trahan (MA-03)
Representative Paul Tonko (NY-20)
Representative Susan Wild (PA-07)
Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18)
Representative Mary Gay Scanlon (PA-05)
Representative Conor Lamb (PA-24)
Representative Joe Courtney (CT-02)
Representative Tom Suozzi (NY-03)
Representative Brian Higgins (NY-26)
Representative Dan Kildee (MI-05)
Representative Brendan Boyle (PA-02)
Representative Bill Keating (MA-09)
Representative Jim McGovern (MA-02)
Representative Mike Kelly (PA-16)
Representative Seth Moulton (MA-06)
Administration officials, state and local elected officials, and community leaders





  