
    I have asked Bo and Rog Morton to come and to participate in an announcement. Bo Callaway, in his typically unselfish way, has submitted his resignation. Let me say very firmly and with deep conviction, first, I have known Bo Callaway for 15 years. I knew him before he got into government. I knew him as a Member of the House of Representatives. I campaigned with him in Georgia. I knew him well when he was Secretary of the Army. I certainly knew him extremely well while he was running the Ford for President campaign.
So, on the basis of this accumulation of very close personal experiences, I know very deeply in my own heart that Bo Callaway is an absolutely honest person and one who would not, under any circumstances, undertake anything that was improper.
Bo, as I said, in his own unselfish way, recognizing that a campaign is a relatively limited, time-wise affair, felt that for him to stay on while these investigations were being completed would not be helpful to the campaign. I am absolutely sure that Bo will be completely exonerated, and I know that Bo feels that personally. So, I thank him for his unselfishness. I thank him very much for his total dedication.
As Rog Morton takes over the President Ford Committee, he inherits an outstanding group of individuals that Bo Callaway assembled. He inherits an organization that is a going organization, that's got a pretty good batting average of five out of six. So we thank you, Bo, for getting the people, putting the organization on the road, and the success that it achieved.
And, Rog, I thank you for undertaking this responsibility. You've got about 5 1/2 months. I am absolutely confident we are going to win not only in Kansas City but I think we are going to win in November.
So, I thank Bo for the fine job he has done, and I thank you for undertaking the responsibilities. And I reiterate what I said earlier--I am most grateful for your unselfishness, Bo. And our friendship, which is predicated on a long-standing relationship, is one that I have cherished, and I certainly look forward to continuing as it has in the past.
Thank you.
  