
    Pool Reports by Emily Goodin, Daily Mail 



Sent:
Reports:




March 15, 202311:24 PDT

WH travel pool #1 - motorcade rolling
Motorcade rolling from the RON at 11:23 am.
As pool held in the press bus, some members caught a brief glimpse of POTUS as the rest of the motorcade was being loaded.
Destination: University of Nevada, Las Vegas, where POTUS will discuss his plan to lower prescription drug costs.
Drive time: 10 minutes
More tk...



March 15, 202311:34 PDT

WH travel pool #2 - University of Nevada arrival
Motorcade arrived at the University of Nevada, Las
Vegas, at 11:30 am.
From the WH:
Traveling with the President via motorcade en route to the University of Nevada, Las Vegas (UNLV):
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of StaffAnnie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office OperationsKarine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press SecretaryBen LaBolt, Assistant to the President & Director of CommunicationsVinay Reddy, Assistant to the President & Director of SpeechwritingEmmy Ruiz, Assistant to the President & Director of the Office of Political Strategy & OutreachCurtis Ried, Deputy Assistant to the President & NSC Chief of Staff & Executive SecretaryTravis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director



March 15, 202312:00 PDT

WH travel pool #3 - venue details and POTUS doing photoline
The speech is taking place in a small auditorium. There is a group of what appears to be medical personnel - people wearing scrubs and white coats - standing on risers next to the stage.
There are people standing up on the second level looking down to the stage. The blue background of the stage has yellow letters that read "Lowering Costs for American families."
It is airing on WH live: https://www.whitehouse.gov/live/
Pool will endeavor to give a two minute warning.
From the WH:
In attendance for the President's remarks on lowering prescription drug costs at the University of Nevada, Las Vegas:Rep. Dina Titus (NV-01)David Berman, Medicare beneficiary with insulin-dependent Type 2 diabetesSeniors, labor union members, nurses, and UNLV nursing and medical faculty and students
Speaking ProgramRep. Dina Titus (NV-01)David Berman, Medicare beneficiary with insulin-dependent Type 2 diabetesThe President
Participating in a photoline with the President at the University of Nevada, Las Vegas (UNLV):
Rep. Dina Titus (NV-01)Rep. Steven Horsford (NV-04)Nevada Attorney General Aaron FordChairman Tim Williams, Fort Mojave Indian Tribe of Arizona, California, & NevadaUniversity staff members and community leaders and activistsLocal labor union members and leaders



March 15, 202312:07 PDT

WH travel pool #4 - 2 minute warning
We have a two minute warning to POTUS remarks.



March 15, 202313:01 PDT

WH travel pool #5 - Departing University of Nevada
POTUS spoke for just over 20 minutes. He worked the rope line after his remarks and pool was pulled as he was still in the auditorium.
Motorcade is rolling at 12:59 pm.
Pool did not see POTUS load.
Outside the venue there was a single protester yelling into a megaphone: "Hey, hey. Joe, Joe. Zelensky's spending it all on blow."
Next stop: Harry Reid International Airport
Drive time: five minutes



March 15, 202313:12 PDT

WH travel pool #6 - airport arrival and headed back to JBA
Motorcade arrived at the Harry Reid International Airport at 1:06 pm.
POTUS was boarding the plane at 1:08 pm as pool was getting out of its bus. Natalie boarded with him.
Next stop: JBA
Flight time: About four hours
AF1 is wheels up shortly.
From WH:
Traveling with the President aboard Air Force One en route to Joint Base Andrews:
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of StaffAnnie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office OperationsVinay Reddy, Assistant to the President & Director of SpeechwritingKarine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press SecretaryEmmy Ruiz, Assistant to the President & Director of the Office of Political Strategy & OutreachBen LaBolt, Assistant to the President & Director of CommunicationsCurtis Ried, Deputy Assistant to the President & NSC Chief of Staff & Executive SecretaryTravis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip DirectorAlana Mounce, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of the Office of Political Strategy & Outreach



March 15, 202319:53 EDT

WH travel pool #7 - Wheels down JBA
Air Force One was wheels up from Las Vegas International Airport at 1:19 pm Pacific time and was wheels down at Joint Base Andrews at 7:52 pm Eastern time.
Flight was uneventful with no visitors to the press cabin.
AF1 is taxing on the runway.
More tk...



March 15, 202320:11 EDT

WH travel pool #8 - Marine One wheels up
POTUS disembarked AF1 at 8:04 pm with Natalie Biden behind him.
The two immediately headed for Marine One.
Marine One was wheels up at 8:11 pm.
Thanks to WSJ's Andrew Restuccia and the rest of the pool for their help on this trip.
Handing POTUS off to the in town pool ...
From the WH:
Greeting the President upon arrival at Joint Base Andrews:
Colonel William "Chris" McDonald, Vice Commander, 89th Airlift Wing
Traveling with the President aboard Marine One en route to the White House:
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of StaffAnnie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations




 
Pool Reports below by David Smith, The Guardian 



Sent:
Reports:




March 15, 202318:22 EDT

WH in-town pool report #1/ Checking in
Greetings from the White House on a windy but sunny evening.
According to the daily guidance, POTUS is expected to arrive at the White House at 7.50pm following his trip to California and Nevada.



March 15, 202320:13 EDT

WH in-town pool report #2/ Pool gathers
Pool has gathered at the Palm Room doors ahead of POTUS's return to the south lawn.



March 15, 202320:22 EDT

WH in-town pool report #3/ POTUS lands
Marine One touched down on the south lawn at 8.22pm.



March 15, 202320:35 EDT

WH in-town pool report #4/ No remarks and lid
POTUS, in blue suit, stepped off Marine One at 8.24pm and walked hand in hand with his granddaughter, Natalie, who wore a white fleece jacket and black trousers with red stripe. He did not respond to shouted questions. Natalie entered the south portico first with POTUS close behind.
The White House press office sends these details:
'Traveling with the President aboard Marine One en route to the White House:
'Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of StaffAnnie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations'
A lid was called at 8.32pm.




  