
    DETROIT — Today, Sen. Bernie Sanders welcomed the endorsement of Detroit City Council President Pro Tempore Mary Sheffield, reflecting the growing support Sanders is building across Michigan ahead of the March 10 primary.
"I am enthusiastically supporting Sen. Bernie Sanders for president of the United States because he represents the best chance for a paradigm shift in how the government represents all the people of our great nation," said Hon. Mary Sheffield. "From treating healthcare and access to clean safe drinking water as a human right, to ensuring that billionaires pay their fair share, to his plan for education that gives low-income families greater access to opportunities, Sen. Sanders is the best hope for a better and more morally responsible America. I share his vision for improving the lives of everyday working class Americans through radical changes to how our government operates."
In November of 2013, Hon. Sheffield became the youngest person ever elected to the Detroit City Council. She was later selected as the Council President Pro Tempore by her colleagues after being elected to a second term in 2017. President Pro Tempore Sheffield was appointed Chair of Neighborhood and Community Services and initially served on the Planning and Economic Development committee, but currently sits on the Budget, Finance and Audit standing committee. Hon. Sheffield is a board member for the Detroit Riverfront Conservancy, a member of the National Network to Combat Gun Violence, a member of People for the American Way's (PFAW) Young Elected Officials, a Continuum of Care (for the homeless) board member and a founding member of the newly formed Black Legislative Exchange Council.
"It is an honor to have the support of the Honorable Pro Tem Sheffield, who has dedicated herself every day to fighting for the people of Detroit and this great city," said Bernie 2020 Michigan State Coordinator Michael Fasullo. "It is only with leaders like Hon. Sheffield that we can transform this country so it works for everyone and so that no one is left behind."
At the Council table, President Pro Tem Sheffield has made a commitment to fight for the continued growth of Detroit and has remained steadfast in keeping neighborhoods at the center of the conversation. In her short time on the Detroit City Council, she has launched a number of initiatives designed to engage residents and offer a truly representative form of government to the residents of District 5 and Detroit as a whole. Council President Pro Tempore Mary Sheffield is renowned for her monthly Occupy the Corner – Detroit initiative, Homelessness Taskforce, "State of the Youth" Symposiums, Detroit Girls of Destiny mentorship program and her recently announced People's Bills designed to help low-income and long term Detroiters.
Legislatively, she has sponsored Inclusionary Housing, Notification/Right to First Refusal and Poverty Tax Exemption Ordinances, restored Police Commission powers after emergency management and successfully fought to save the Senior Home Repair Grant program. Pro Tem Sheffield is committed to building a Detroit and attracting new residents and families but wants to also ensure the City remains committed to the residents who stayed through the toughest of times.
Led by faith and driven by her passion for people and justice, City Council President Pro Tempore Mary Sheffield has accepted her calling to be an active participant in Detroit's Renaissance – lending her voice and expertise to ensuring all Detroiters benefit during Detroit's resurgence and that the development taking place is sustainable.
Sen. Sanders has also welcomed support in Michigan from U.S. Representative Rashida Tlaib, DNC Member Michelle Deatrick, School Board Trustee of Kenowa Hills in Grand Rapids Eric-John Szczepaniak, Dr. Abdul El-Sayed, State Representative (District 15) Abdullah Hammoud, Mayor Marcus Muhammad of Benton Harbor, State Representative (District 4) Isaac Robinson of Detroit, State Representative (District 53) Yousef Rabhi of Ann Arbor, Council Member (Ward 5) Ali Ramlawi of Ann Arbor, and Council Member Dave Abdallah of Dearborn Heights, as well as The Young Democrats of Michigan and the Progressive Caucus of the Michigan Democratic Party.
**Organizations listed for identification purposes, and do not imply institutional endorsement.**
  