
    This week, Bill Anoatubby, Governor of the Chickasaw Nation, penned an op-ed in The Oklahoman celebrating the successful vaccination rate across his state. He highlighted that the Chickasaw Nation's coordination with the Indian Health Service and support from Congress enabled them to open their vaccination sites up to all Oklahomans, expanding access and protecting communities across the state from the virus.
He emphasized that funding from President Biden's COVID relief bill will continue to empower the Chickasaw community as they rebuild from the socioeconomic impacts of the pandemic.
He wrote, "The American Rescue Plan Act provides funding for the wide-ranging needs arising from the devastating impact this historic health emergency has had on every aspect of our daily lives. This investment in health care, housing, education, childcare, public safety, broadband, water systems and other essential services will play an important role in helping Chickasaws and all Americans overcome the continuing challenges brought on by this pandemic and build a brighter future together."
See below for full op-ed: 
The Oklahoman: Opinion: Bill Anoatubby: Another milestone toward defeating the pandemicOn March 17, 2020, we declared a public health emergency in the Chickasaw Nation during the early stages of the COVID-19 pandemic. Many milestones during this pandemic have been grim reminders of the human toll of this deadly disease. However, as we approached the anniversary of that declaration, we have also reached some significant milestones on the path toward defeating this pandemic.
Across America, more than 100 million doses of COVID-19 vaccine have been administered and vaccinations are proceeding at a relatively rapid rate. In Oklahoma, we are slightly ahead of the national average in administering vaccinations to protect the people of our state. We are pleased to be part of the successful beginnings of a vaccination program that will help protect our family, friends and neighbors.
Slightly less than three months after administering our first dose of the vaccine, the Chickasaw Nation gladly opened vaccinations to all Oklahomans at our locations in Ada, Ardmore, Purcell and Tishomingo.As we celebrate this important milestone of our own, it is important to remember it required diligent effort, perseverance and collaboration to reach this point.
From the beginning of the pandemic, the Chickasaw Nation worked closely with the Indian Health Service to acquire the resources needed to care for patients safely and offer testing to our clients and the broader community.
As scientists organized a monumental effort to produce the vaccine in record time, Congress provided funding to begin dealing with both the short-term and long-term impacts of the pandemic. Collaboration with the Indian Health Service has enabled us to obtain supplies of the vaccine in a timely manner. When limited supplies of vaccine first became available, we placed a high priority on Chickasaw Nation health care workers and other front-line workers, as well as our elders.
As we vaccinated more and more of those facing the highest risk of exposure and those most vulnerable to the disease, we were able to expand availability to all educators and their family members in Oklahoma.
Recently, we received an exponential increase in vaccine supply that enabled us to open our sites to all Oklahomans as well as our citizens, our employees and their family members. Our facilities across the Chickasaw Nation will enable us to administer the vaccines quickly and efficiently.
While vaccinations are a significant part of our comprehensive efforts to contain the pandemic, we must continue efforts to contain the spread of the virus. Wearing masks, responsible distancing, and washing our hands remain key to speeding our return to a more normal daily life.
We grieve with families and friends who have lost loved ones. We empathize with each and every family dealing with devastating long-term health and financial impacts.
Widespread cooperation has brought about the beginnings of the end of of this pandemic and the same spirit of collaboration will be needed to help our country return to a greater degree of normalcy.
While federal funding played an important role in helping meet short-term challenges presented by the pandemic, recently passed legislation will help fill gaps and meet ongoing challenges associated with the pandemic.
The American Rescue Plan Act provides funding for the wide-ranging needs arising from the devastating impact this historic health emergency has had on every aspect of our daily lives. This investment in health care, housing, education, childcare, public safety, broadband, water systems and other essential services will play an important role in helping Chickasaws and all Americans overcome the continuing challenges brought on by this pandemic and build a brighter future together.
Vaccination is an individual milestone that makes a very real difference in our collective battle against this disease, so I invite you to join me in taking that positive step for yourself and your neighbors. One lesson we have all learned through this pandemic is Americans can accomplish anything when we work together.
  