
    New Endorsements Include State Lawmakers and Community Leaders
With less than two weeks to the Florida Primary, Biden for President announced the endorsements of more than 20 elected officials and community leaders across the state, including State Representative Loranne Ausley, State Representative Kamia Brown, Former State Senator Arthenia Joyner, State Representative Kionne McGhee, former State Representative and 2018 Democratic Nominee for Attorney General Sean Shaw, and State Senator Annette Taddeo.
"I am proud and excited to endorse Vice President Joe Biden because he will unite our country and heal the division that has plagued our nation the last three years," said State Senator Annette Taddeo of Kendall. "Joe Biden will lead decisively and with an agenda that gives every person a real shot to achieve their American Dream. Equally important is Joe Biden's foreign policy acumen, which is badly needed at a time when Latin America faces growing threats from brutal dictators who are destroying democracy in the region. I am excited and ready to campaign across Florida to ensure the Vice President carries Florida with its 29 electoral votes."
"I know Joe Biden. Joe is a fighter for working people, a champion of the forgotten, a man who stands up for what's right," said former State Senator Arthenia Joyner of Tampa. "Here in Florida, we've seen the impact of policies meant to divide, to turn one against the other. This is not Florida, this is not America, this is not who we are. We need a Democratic candidate who will bring people together, a man who can bind the wounds of this nation and restore our pride. That candidate is Joe Biden."
"Joe, time and time again, has delivered on the issues impacting Florida families," said Florida State Representative Loranne Ausley Tallahassee. "Early childhood education, health care, economic recovery, protecting our natural resources, gun safety -- the list goes on and on. What separates Joe from the field is that he can get things done by working closely with Congress to get things done. I'm proud to join Team Joe and excited to do my part to make sure he wins Florida big."
"I proudly endorse Joe Biden for President because he will lift up opportunities for all communities across Florida and the country," said State Representative Kamia Brown of Orlando. "It's time we had a President who healed the hurting rather than stoke division among those who disagree. Joe Biden has empathy and compassion and I know he will return hope and a commitment to progress that is sorely missing today. Floridians should unite behind Joe Biden so we can win in November."
"In the Sunshine State we recognize the civility, empathy and resilience that Joe brings to the trail everyday," says State Representative Kionne McGhee of Miami. "Now, it's time to bring these qualities back to the White House. On March 17th, it's Florida's turn to send a message to the county that Joe Biden is the right person for this moment."
"I could not be more enthusiastic to endorse Joe Biden, a man who leads with compassion, dignity, and empathy," said Former State Representative and Democratic Nominee for Attorney General Sean Shaw of Tampa. "At a moment when our president seeks to divide Americans, Joe offers a message of unity and hope for our country. He has the heart for this challenging moment in American history and with his leadership, Americans can finally heal and move forward together."
Today's new endorsements include:

State Representative Loranne Ausley, Tallahassee
Palm Beach County Commissioner Mack Bernard
Oakland Park Vice Mayor Jane Bolin
State Representative Kamia Brown, Orlando
Commissioner Bakari Burns, Orlando
Orange County Board of Supervisors Vice Chair Dawn Curtis
State Representative Ben Diamond, Tampa
State Representative Bobby DuBose, Fort Lauderdale
Kissimmee City Commissioner Angela Eady
Jacksonville City Councilman Reggie Gaffney
Hillsborough County Property Appraiser Bob Henriquez
Representative Evan Jenne, Hollywood
Former Senator Arthenia Joyner, Tampa
Pinellas County Commissioner Janet Long
State House Minority Leader Kionne Mcghee, Miami
Lee County Commissioner Rick Minor
Miami Beach City Commissioner and Former State Representative David Richardson
Former State Representative and Democratic Nominee for Attorney General Sean Shaw, Tampa
Former Tampa City Councilman Mike Suarez
State Senator Annette Taddeo, Miami
Tampa City Councilman Luis Viera
State Attorney Andrew Warren, Tampa

Today's new endorsers join more than 50 leaders across Florida that have endorsed Joe Biden for President, including former Senators Bill Nelson and Bob Graham, and current Members of Congress Kathy Castor, Charlie Crist, Val Demmings, Ted Deutch, Lois Frankel, Alcee Hastings, Al Lawson, Debbie Wasserman Schultz, Darren Soto, and Frederica Wilson. Biden also has the most support from more Members of Congress of any candidate in the race, with 58 members backing him. Nationally, Biden for President has previously announced more than 1,500 endorsements from national, state, and local leaders, including current and former U.S. senators and representatives, governors, state elected officials, community leaders, and national security professionals.
Biden's endorsements showcase the diversity of support for Vice President Biden in Florida and across the country, as well as the trust that these leaders have in his ability to beat Donald Trump, restore the soul of this nation, rebuild the middle class, and bring the country together.
  