
    To the Congress of the United States:
The Export-Import Bank Act of 1945 as amended in November 1978 (Sec. 1908 (a) of Public Law 95-630) requested me "to begin negotiations at the ministerial level with other major exporting countries to end predatory export financing programs and other forms of export subsidies, including mixed credits, in third country markets as well as within the United States." The legislation called for a report to the Congress on progress toward meeting these goals.
As I indicated on September 26, 1978, in my Statement on Export Policy, this Administration attaches high priority to increasing American exports. The Export-Import Bank plays a very significant role in that effort. Accordingly, this Administration has sought to make the Bank's financing more competitive with the official export financing provided by other governments and, at the same time, to improve the International Arrangement on Export Credits so as to avoid costly and self-defeating export credit competition between sovereign governments.
I directed the Secretary of the Treasury to undertake the appropriate negotiations. In fact, Secretary Blumenthal had already alerted foreign governments to the need for a broadened and strengthened International Arrangement at the OECD Ministerial Meeting in June 1978 and the issue was again raised at the meeting which prepared the agenda for the Bonn Summit. In September 1978, Secretary Blumenthal emphasized to the Finance Ministers of our major trading partners the importance of substantive improvements in the International Arrangement on Export Credits. He presented detailed proposals designed to bring the financing terms set forth in the Arrangement closer to worldwide commercial practices and to broaden the Arrangement to cover sectors presently excluded from coverage.
Briefly, these proposals called for increases ranging from 1/2 to 3/4 of one percent in the minimum interest rates called for by the Arrangement, the elimination of local cost support by export credit agencies, and greater restraint in the use of highly concessional mixed credits. In addition, maximum repayment terms and minimum interest rates were proposed for aircraft, nuclear power plants and liquified natural gas (LNG) tankers, sectors presently excluded from the Arrangement. Similarly, a proposal was made to have the Arrangement cover credits for agricultural commodities in excess of three years but not more than ten years. Additional possibilities for improving the Arrangement emerged during the subsequent discussions.
These proposals were presented to the twenty-two countries participating in the International Arrangement on Export Credits for consideration at their October 1978 meeting. At our urging, these countries agreed to establish a working group to consider improvements in the Arrangement. The working group met in December 1978 and in January 1979. In addition, representatives of the U.S. Government discussed these proposals at length in bilateral meetings with other governments.
Although the substance of our proposals appeared to constitute a basis for negotiation, the required unanimity for the changes we sought in the Arrangement was lacking. As a result, no agreement regarding modifications in the Arrangement acceptable to the U.S. Government could be reached.
I have therefore reluctantly concluded that further negotiations would not be productive at this time. If the countries which have opposed the improvements we have suggested evidence their willingness to be more forthcoming, I would be prepared to resume negotiations at any time.
For the present, however, the lack of progress requires us to reexamine our own efforts to assure that we remain competitive in the export credit field. Our examination may well indicate that we should modify some of our own programs and policies until such time as there is more willingness among our trading partners to impose the needed self-discipline on export credit practices.
Meanwhile, the United States will continue to adhere to the International Arrangement on Export Credits because it remains a useful, if limited, instrument of international discipline in the provision of officially supported export credits. Within this framework, the Export-Import Bank, operating in consultation with the National Advisory Council on International Monetary and Financial Policy (NAG), will provide the necessary export financing support to allow American exporters to meet foreign official export credit competition. For example, Eximbank will continue its recently adopted policy of matching mixed credits on a selective basis, a policy which proved effective recently when an American exporter was awarded a contract based on an Eximbank financing package that matched the mixed credit offer of a foreign government.
Finally, in my FY 1980 budget, I have asked the Congress for $4.1 billion in direct lending authority for Eximbank, an increase of $500 million from the FY 1979 budget. I have asked for this increase, together with $6.8 billion in insurance and loan guarantee authority, in a year in which I am determined to cut the Federal budget deficit to below $30 billion. I expect the Bank to husband these new resources carefully, but I also expect the Bank aggressively to meet official export credit competition.
The attached annex details the discussions and the actions taken to improve the International Arrangement and provide competitive official export credit financing.
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
March 16, 1979.
  