
    
APPLETON, Wis. – Fresh off big victories in six of the last seven contests, U.S. Sen. Bernie Sanders on Tuesday brought his White House campaign back to Wisconsin.
His appearance here came days after he scored double-digit victories last Saturday, winning Washington with 73 percent of the vote, Alaska by a landslide 82 percent and Hawaii with 71 percent.
One week before voters here go to the polls, Sanders' mid-morning rally on a workday drew nearly 3,770 supporters to the Fox Cities Performing Arts Center. There were 2,220 in main theater, another 400 watched on closed-circuit television in an overflow theater. And Sanders spoke to more than 1,150 people outside before the rally began.

The crowd here mirrored big turnouts across the country that are one of the many signs of the momentum building behind his grassroots campaign. "Since we began this campaign we have spoken to close to 1 million people in states throughout this country," the senator said.
In addition to the big turnouts, there are other signs of Sanders' growing support. In public opinion surveys, Sanders last week edged ahead of Clinton in a national poll by Bloomberg Politics. In that survey and others he leads Republican front-runner Donald Trump by much bigger margins than Clinton. He was 20 points up on Trump in a CNN/ORC poll. He also enjoys bigger margins than Clinton against other Republican White House hopefuls.

Sanders was introduced to the Appleton audience by former Wisconsin Lt. Gov. Barbara Lawton. "I have never before felt greater urgency in a political campaign," she said. "This election gives us the opportunity to rebuild America's middle class and restore stability at the core of our democracy. We must realize both economic and national security for all. That is why I endorse Bernie Sanders for president of the United States."
Wisconsin is the next stop in the contest between Sanders and Clinton for the Democratic Party presidential nomination. Eighty-six pledged delegates will be at stake in next Tuesday's primary election.
  