
    Whitmer Named Fourth National Campaign Co-Chair
After historic wins in states across the country on Super Tuesday, Michigan Governor Gretchen Whitmer released the following statement endorsing Joe Biden for President of the United States:
"Working families in Michigan need a president who will show up and fight for them, and Joe Biden has proven time and again that he has our backs. He had all of our backs when he worked with President Obama to expand health care to millions of people under the Affordable Care Act, including 680,000 Michiganders who now have coverage through Medicaid expansion. He had our backs during the auto industry rescue that saved GM and Chrysler. And he's proven that he will continue to fight for those values and more as our next president.
"Joe Biden understands we're at a crossroads in our country — he understands what's at stake when working families are wondering whether they'll be able to afford a doctors' bill, or prescription drugs, or to put food on the table for themselves and their families.
"Michiganders have grit. We're tough. We know what it's like to be overlooked and counted out. And we know that when you get knocked down, you pick yourself up and get back to work. Joe Biden has been right there with us in the tough fights. He showed up for the people of Michigan when our health care and our auto industry were on the line. He helped us pick ourselves up and get back to work. I know he'll do the same as president.
"Joe Biden is the candidate we need to defeat Donald Trump in November. He's always had our backs. Now, I'm proud to have his."
Whitmer's endorsement adds to the growing support that Joe Biden has already garnered in Michigan, including former Michigan Senator Carl Levin and former Governor Jennifer Granholm who both endorsed Biden yesterday. In addition, the Michigan Democratic Party Black Caucus, Detroit Mayor Mike Duggan, State Representatives Joe Tate, Karen Whitsett, and Tenisha Yancey, and State Senator Marshall Bullock have also endorsed Biden. Nationally, Biden for President has previously announced more than 1,500 endorsements from national, state, and local leaders, including current and former U.S. senators and representatives, governors, state elected officials, community leaders, and national security professionals.
Whitmer joins Delaware Congresswoman Lisa Blunt Rochester, Louisiana Congressman Cedric Richmond and Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti as national campaign co-chairs, serving as a top advisor and surrogate as the campaign expands its efforts to clinch the Democratic nomination and defeat Donald Trump.
  