
    AAPI leaders nationwide announce support for Mike Bloomberg ahead of Super Tuesday
NEW YORK — Today, the Mike Bloomberg 2020 campaign announced its Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders (AAPIs) for Mike National Leadership Council. With more than 19.3 million Asian Americans, Native Hawaiians, and Pacific Islanders in the United States, the AAPI National Leadership Council will work to energize and build support around the country for Mike's candidacy for President. AAPIs for Mike is an organizing program that will engage with local and national community leaders and host "Potluck for Mike" events in cities around the country to share his record of accomplishment and vision for the country as well as his personal story and values.
Eight trailblazers in the Asian American and Pacific Islander community are co-chairing the 24-member leadership council which leads AAPIs for Mike. The Leadership Council Co-Chairs include Designer and Artist Maya Lin, California State Treasurer Fiona Ma, former New York City Chief Pension advisor Ranji Nagaswami, CEO of IntuitiveX Jeffrey Roh, Government Affairs Executive Albert Shen, and Internet Entrepreneur Jerry Yang.
AAPI Leadership Council Co-Chairs:
Fiona Ma, California State Treasurer said: "Mike's family's immigrant story is the American story: that through hard work and perseverance you can achieve the American Dream. His story resonates so deeply with my family and countless Asian American and Pacific Islander families who came here in search of opportunity, liberty, and a better life. We need a champion in DC to fight for and expand the American Dream, not just for the AAPI community, but for all minority communities who have ever faced fear and discrimination, especially considering today's xenophobic White House."
Ranji Nagaswami, Private Investor and former New York City Chief Pension Investment Advisor in the Bloomberg administration said: "I have witnessed first-hand how Mike gets extremely complex things done — guided by a strong inner compass to make difficult decisions, and by his entrepreneurial disposition to take action. Mike is by far one of the most effective leaders in our country, and I am delighted to engage Asian Americans across the country to make Mike our community's resounding choice to be our next President."
Jeffrey Roh, Chief Executive Officer of IntuitiveX said: "I'm proud to endorse Mike Bloomberg. As the chief executive of every organization under his leadership, Mike has proven over the years that he knows how to execute a game plan and, equally as important, he simply knows how to win. There's no doubt in my mind that he is the candidate who is best suited to beat Donald Trump in the general election. As a healthcare provider, I want a candidate who takes a thoughtful, pragmatic approach to challenging healthcare issues confronting our country today including controls on prescription drug pricing and the expansion—and not elimination—of the Affordable Care Act. I believe that Mike Bloomberg is the candidate who can help us tackle these difficult, but not impossible, to solve issues in healthcare."
The Mike Bloomberg 2020 campaign has previously announced national leadership councils of endorsers in diverse communities including Women for Mike, United For Mike, and LGBTQ+ Leaders for Mike. These programs are comprised of Americans across the country that are lending their voices to the campaign while supporting Mike's candidacy for President in communities across the country.
Members of the AAPIs for Mike National Leadership Council include:
Council Co-Chairs

Fiona Ma, California State Treasurer
Kevin Kim, Attorney
Maya Lin, Artist
Ling Luo, Founder and Chair of Asian American Democratic Club
Ranji Nagaswami, Private Investor, Aspen Institute
Albert Shen, Executive Leader in Government Affairs
Jeffrey Roh, Chief Executive Officer, IntuitiveX
Jerry Yang, Internet Entrepreneur and Venture Capitalist

Council Members

Virginia Lam Abrams, Senior Vice President, Government Affairs & Strategic Advancement, Starry Inc
Vinoda Basnayake, Entrepreneur
Katrina Chan, Director of Government Outreach, Bloomberg New Economy Forum
Jihee Huh, California State AAPIA Public Affairs Commissioner
Peter Huh, Entrepreneur, Public Service Activist and Philanthropist
June Jee, Community Advocate
Amazin LeThi, LGBTQ Activist, Athlete, Author
Ying McGuire, Vice President, Technology Integration Group
Lily Mei, Mayor of Fremont, California
Ibrahim Moiz, Partner, Nova Business Law Group
Elliot Park, President and CEO, Shine Electronics
Gordon Quan, Former Mayor Pro Tem, City of Houston
Sonny Thadani, Community Advocate
John Wang, President, Asian American Business Development Center
Michael Yap, VP, Business Development, GenMobile
Robert Yap, CEO, GenMobile

Other members of the AAPI Leadership Council have pledged their support for Mike and are energized about his candidacy.
Amazin LeThi, LGBTQ Activist, Athlete, Author said: "President Trump and his administration has enforced cruel and inhumane policies towards women and the immigrant community. I believe Mike 'Will Get It Done' to not only beat Trump but also rebuild America and reverse President Trump's attacks on immigrants and women."
Ibrahim Moiz, Partner, Nova Business Law Group and Virginia State Co-Chair said: "I know Mike will not only beat Trump but he will also pass legislation to get America back on track. During this campaign Mike has shown me his willingness to learn from his mistakes and commitment to support and uplift all Americans, regardless of race, religion, or socio-economic status. That is a quality we need in a President now."
Gordon Quan, former Mayor Pro Tem of the City of Houston said: "Mike Bloomberg is our best chance to win back the White House. He has proven executive leadership in running a large governmental organization. He has the grit, toughness and financial resources to take on a bully like Trump. In a divided country like ours, he can provide the progressive middle ground that is needed to bring this country back together."
Virginia Lam Abrams, Senior Vice President of Starry Inc, and former Deputy Press Secretary in the Bloomberg Administration, said: "Our country deserves a leader who believes that the opportunity for success is within reach for every person in every community across our country. Ensuring that every person has the opportunity to thrive has always been at the core of Mike's policies – which is why the average life expectancy of New Yorkers increased during Mike's three terms as mayor. The smoking ban, menu calorie counts, protected bike lanes, the first real attempt at congestion pricing, 311, and reducing the city's carbon footprint – all of these initiatives came to life because of Mike. That's why I'm proud to support him."
  