
    "Well I have some suggestions for the President and for the producer. First of all, talk to the 24 million Americans that are out of work or underemployed in this country. And, by the way, you could talk to some of the young ones like those two in that second row there, that got hit with $15.5 trillion of debt. This president has put in place almost as much public debt as all the prior presidents combined. Talk to them. And then how about our soldiers coming home that can't find work. You could talk to them as well. And how about the folks that are having a hard time filling up their car because of the price of gasoline. It's doubled under this president." — Mitt Romney
Mitt Romney
Remarks
Jackson, MS
March 9, 2012
Click Here To See Mitt Romney's Remarks
MITT ROMNEY: "I got off a phone call on the way here. I guess there's a new, there's a new infomercial out. The President's people have put together a seventeen-minute infomercial. They're calling it a documentary, I don't think so, it's an infomercial. And the person who produced it, he said 'boy, it was really hard putting this together.' He was interviewed last night. He said 'because I couldn't find any faults with the president. I could find nothing... I could find nothing he'd done wrong, so how could I put together a film, you know, because it showed only one side, a positive side.' Well I have some suggestions for the President and for the producer. First of all, talk to the 24 million Americans that are out of work or underemployed in this country. And, by the way, you could talk to some of the young ones like those two in that second row there, that got hit with $15.5 trillion of debt. This president has put in place almost as much public debt as all the prior presidents combined. Talk to them. And then how about our soldiers coming home that can't find work. You could talk to them as well. And how about the folks that are having a hard time filling up their car because of the price of gasoline. It's doubled under this president. He could also pick up the phone and talk to the folks that work in the Gulf. We were in Pascagoula yesterday. We saw behind us a couple of large drilling rigs not being used right now. The use of drilling rigs in the Gulf is lowest of any place in the world. Lowest utilization, that's because of this president and the moratorium he put in place that's illegal. Talk, by the way, to the people that are in the health care sector that don't like Obamacare and want to get rid of it. Talk to the members in our military, our veterans, who are told that the payments they have to make for TriCare, their health care program, are going to go up under this president. Talk to the people who've been serving overseas that wonder why we're not talking enough about the sacrifices that are being made by our families of our servicemen in Afghanistan. I'll tell you, I've got a long list of people for that producer to talk to and I'll tell you, if someone's looking for things that the president has done wrong, it's a long, long, long list. Don't forget, by the way, that this president... How many months ago was it, 37 months ago, told us that if he could borrow $787 billion, almost a trillion dollars, he would keep unemployment below 8 percent. It has not been below 8 percent since. This president has not succeeded, this president has failed and that's the reason we're going to get rid of him in 2012. Now I don't mean to be getting you to your feet like that. You can be excited sitting down, you don't have to get up. You're very kind. You see that sign up there that says 'more jobs, less debt, smaller government.' That's what we want and that is not what we've got. With this president, we have fewer jobs, we have more debt and we have bigger government. That's what's wrong with this president, that's why we have to get him out of office."
  