
    Pool Reports by Steven Miller, Washington Times



Sent:
Reports:




March 27, 202010:19 

Pool Report #1
Good morning from the White House,I will be your print pooler today. The only event on the schedule so far is an on-camera Coronavirus Task Force briefing at 5 p.m. EDT.Cheers.



March 27, 202010:32 

Pool Report #2
From the White House:
President Donald J. Trump spoke last night with President Xi Jinping of China. Having participated in a teleconference with G20 leaders earlier in the day, both leaders reiterated their commitment to cooperate to protect lives and livelihoods. The two leaders agreed to work together to defeat the coronavirus pandemic and restore global health and prosperity.



March 27, 202011:58 

Pool Report #3 Lunch Lid
The White House announced a lunch lid until 1:30 p.m. EDT.



March 27, 2020
[APP Note: Report #4 does not exist or was not received by the APP.]


March 27, 202015:48 

Pool Report #5 Boris Johnson Call
From the White House:
Today, President Donald J. Trump spoke with Prime Minister Boris Johnson of the United Kingdom. The President thanked the Prime Minister for his close friendship and wished him a speedy recovery. President Trump and Prime Minister Johnson agreed to collaborate closely, along with the G7, the G20, and other international partners, to defeat the coronavirus pandemic and boost the global economy. The two leaders also expressed optimism that the United States and the United Kingdom would emerge stronger than ever.



March 27, 202015:53 

Pool Report #6
Pool is gathering for CARES Act signing ceremony in Oval Office.



March 27, 202016:08 

Pool Report #7
From White House:
Today, President Donald J. Trump hosts a signing ceremony for H.R. 748, the CARES Act.
The following participants are expected to attend:
Trump AdministrationPresident Donald J. TrumpVice President Mike PenceSecretary Steven Mnuchin, Department of the TreasurySecretary Sonny Perdue, Department of AgricultureSecretary Eugene Scalia, Department of LaborSecretary Elaine Chao, Department of TransportationAmbassador Robert Lighthizer, Trade RepresentativeLarry Kudlow, Assistant to the President and Director of the National Economic CouncilEric Ueland, Assistant to the President and Director of the Office of Legislative Affairs
Members of CongressSen. Mitch McConnell, Senate Majority LeaderLeader Kevin McCarthy, House Minority LeaderRep. Kevin Brady, R-TXRep. Greg Walden, R-ORRep. Steve Chabot, R-OH



March 27, 202016:22 

Pool Report #8
Pool entered Oval after all had temperatures taken with forehead scanner.Entered at 4:10 p.m. EDT.
POTUS at desk surrounded by lawmakers, Cabinet officials and CV Task Force members.
POTUS: "I want to thank Democrats and Republicans for coming together and putting America first."
He promised announcement at 5:30 pm on deals to make more ventilators, masks and other equipment.
On masks, POTUS said they would be "making them by the thousands per week."
He had a box of signing pens and the bill in the desk in front of him.
ML Mitch McConnell praised lawmakers for passing the bill at record speed.
McConnell: "It's a proud moment for all of us."
POTUS called it "very special."
VP Pense: "Today, every American family, every American business can know that help is on the way."



March 27, 202016:33 

Pool Report #9
Before signing, POTUS reflected on how fast coronavirus changed life in the U.S. and the world.POTUS: "We got hit by the invisible enemy and we got hit hard."
He said the economy would come roaring back. "I think we are going to have a tremendous rebound."
He said: "I never signed anything with a T on it."
POTUS signed CARES Act at 4:31 pm EDT.



March 27, 202016:50 

Pool Report #10 Angela Merkel Call
From the White House:
Today, President Donald J. Trump spoke with Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany. President Trump and Chancellor Merkel discussed the latest developments on the coronavirus pandemic, as well as promising research in the United States and Germany. The two leaders agreed to work together closely through the G7 under United States leadership, as well as the larger G20, to drive the international campaign to defeat the virus and reinvigorate the global economy. The two leaders also discussed critical regional and bilateral issues. Regarding Afghanistan, President Trump and Chancellor Merkel agreed on the importance of Afghan leaders coming together so the peace process can move forward.



March 27, 202017:00 

Pool Report #11 More POTUS Quotes
At the signing ceremony in Oval Office:
"This is a very important day. I've signed the single biggest economic relief package in American history and, I must say, any other package by the way. It is twice as large as any relief every signed."
"This will deliver urgently needed relief to our nation's families, workers and businesses. That's what this is all about."
"I want to thank Republicans and Democrats for coming together, setting aside their differences and putting America first."
On to-be-announced deal for more equipment such as ventilators and masks:
"We have tremendous supplies coming into the stockpile. And you will be seeing that and hearing about that because we will be doing a news conference at 5:30 on what's happening. We have had tremendous results on the respirators. We've had great results on just about everything we're talking about. Boeing just announced they will be making the plastic face shields, which are hard to come by. They are going to be making them by the thousands per week."
He said the ventilators were the "most difficult because it is like building a car."
"We will be announcing that thousands will be built and we have them under contract and we have fast deliveries."
On enacting the Defense Production Act regarding General Motors, which he misidentified as General Electric:
He said he had used the DPC three or four times but "pulled it back three times because the companies came through in the end and we did not need the act. It has been great leverage."
"I have instituted it against General Electric. We thought we had a deal for 40,000 ventilators and all of a sudden 40,000 came down to 6,000. And then they talked about a hight price than we were discussing. So I didn't like it. So we did activate it with respect to General Motors. Hopefully, we won't need the full activation. We'll find out but we need the ventilators."



March 27, 202017:10 

Pool Report #12
At the signing ceremony in the Oval Office, POTUS also mentioned his call with Chinese President Xi Jinping and he praised the assembled guests as "warriors."
On the call Thursday night with Chinese President Xi Jinping:
"Last night I spoke with President Xi. We talked about the experience that they had in China and all the things that have taken place. And we learned a lot. They have had a very tough experience. And they are doing well. He is doing well. President Xi is doing very well. We learned a lot and we have great communication together. We are going to be sent great data from China. Things have happened that they see. They have had an early experience and we are getting all of that information. Much of it has already been sent. It was sent yesterday and sent to our scientists to study."
He said more details on the Chinese data would be provided at the 5:30 p.m. news conference.
On the lawmakers, Cabinet officials and Coronavirus Task Force members joining him for the signing ceremony:
"The people behind me — they have been incredible friends, they have been warriors, there is nobody tougher or smarter than the people standing alongside of me."



March 27, 202017:17 

Pool Report #13 Netanyahu Call
From the White House:
Today, President Donald J. Trump spoke with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel. President Trump and Prime Minister Netanyahu discussed the latest developments on the coronavirus pandemic, and the President thanked the Prime Minister for his strong action to stop its spread. The two leaders agreed to cooperate closely to combat the virus and minimize its global impact. The President and the Prime Minister also discussed critical bilateral and regional issues.



March 27, 202017:45 

Pool Report #14
The 5 p.m. Coronavirus Task Force briefing has been postponed until 6 p.m.



March 27, 202017:56 

Pool Report #15 Task Force Breifing
POTUS entered the White House press briefing room at 5:55 p.m. EDT.
Remarks at the briefing will not be reported by the pool.
The briefing is being live-streamed at whitehouse.gov/live



March 27, 202019:35 

Pool Report #16 Lid
The White House announced a Travel/Photo Lid at 7:35 p.m. EDT.
Have a safe weekend.
Cheers.




  