
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
March 5
The President announced his intention to nominate Aubrey Hooks as Ambassador to the Republic of the Congo.
March 9
In the late morning, the President assisted with the installation of computer cabling at Ygnacio Valley High School in Concord, CA, as part of NetDay. In the evening, he traveled to Hillsborough, where he attended a fundraising reception, and then returned to Washington, DC, arriving in the early morning.
March 11
In the morning, the President traveled to Newark, NJ, and then to Wallington, where he toured the Industrial Latex Corp. Superfund site. In the afternoon, the President traveled to New York City, and in the late evening, he returned to Washington, DC.
The White House announced that the President has invited President Suleyman Demirel of Turkey to Washington for a working visit on March 29.
The President announced his intention to nominate David H. Shinn as Ambassador to Ethiopia.
March 12
In the afternoon, the President traveled to Sharm al-Sheikh, Egypt.
The President announced his intention to nominate Susan Bass Levin to the Board of Trustees of the Harry S Truman Scholarship Foundation.
The President announced his intention to nominate Lonnie R. Bristow as Chair and Shirly Ledbetter Jones and Robert E. Anderson as members of the Board of Regents of the Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences.
March 13
In the morning, following his arrival in Sharm al-Sheikh, the President met separately with Prime Minister Shimon Peres of Israel and President Boris Yeltsin of Russia in the Presidential suite of the Movenpick Hotel. In the afternoon, the President met separately at the hotel with King Hassan II of Morocco in the King's suite; with Prime Minister John Major of the United Kingdom in the Presidential suite; and with Chairman Yasser Arafat of the Palestinian Authority in the Presidential suite. In the evening, the President traveled to Jerusalem, Israel.
The President declared a major disaster in the State of Maine and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms, ice jams, and flooding January 19 through February 6.
The President announced his intention to nominate Kevin Emanuel Marchman as Assistant Secretary for the Office of Public and Indian Housing at the Department of Housing and Urban Development.
March 14
In the afternoon, the President visited the graves of victims of terrorism in Har Herzl Cemetery. In the evening, he returned to Washington, DC.
The President announced his intention to appoint Kenneth D. Brody as Chair and Clyde V. Prestowitz, Jr., as Vice Chair of the Commission on United States-Pacific Trade and Investment Policy.
The President announced his intention to appoint Gen. Larry D. Welch, Rear Adm. Thomas A. Brooks, and Nina J. Stewart to the Security Policy Advisory Board.
March 15
In the afternoon, the President met with Prime Minister John Bruton of Ireland in the Oval Office and later received a bowl of shamrocks from the Prime Minister in the Roosevelt Room.
In the late afternoon, the President hosted a reception on the State Floor honoring Prime Minister Bruton.
In the evening, the President attended a Democratic National Committee dinner at the Hay Adams Hotel.
The White House announced that the President will travel to Fort Polk, LA, on March 18 to visit American troops who participated in Operation Uphold Democracy in Haiti and to visit with family members of soldiers serving in Bosnia.
The White House announced that the President will send Office of National Drug Control Policy Director Barry R. McCaffrey to head a high level mission March 26-27 to discuss the threat narcotics pose to Mexico and the United States.
  