
    With less than one week until the Illinois Primary, dozens of faith leaders across Illinois are endorsing Joe Biden for President of the United States.
"With the most diverse coalition of support in this race, Joe Biden has proven he is the candidate who can unite the country and begin to roll back the damage done by Donald Trump and his administration on day one," said Rev. Dr. William Foster. "From health care and climate change, to tackling gun violence and systemic racism, Joe Biden has put forward a progressive agenda and has the track record to prove he can get big things done. At a time when character is on the ballot, I want a unifier at the top of the ticket — Joe Biden is the best choice for Illinoisians and for our country."
"At a time when our country is dangerously divided, Joe Biden will restore our leadership with unity and compassion," said Bishop Horace Smith, M.D. "I am proud to support Joe Biden for president because throughout his career, he has worked tirelessly to pass bold legislation like the Violence Against Women Act, Obamacare, and the assault weapons ban. As Vice President, he stood shoulder to shoulder as an ally to President Barack Obama. Joe Biden knows us, and he knows what it takes to bring our country together."
"The person at the top of the ticket must be a unifier, because the future of this country and the character of our democracy are on the ballot," said Pastor Chris Harris. "Joe Biden will tackle the greatest challenges facing our community — health care costs, gun violence, and ensuring that zip code does not define the education opportunities of our children. Joe believes that everybody deserves a fair shot — that's why I am proud to support him for president."
"I am proud to announce my support for Vice President Joe Biden," said Bishop Simon Gordon. "There is no one else who has consistently held the honor of the community by making sure that unity is the way we return to the dignity we've always had and known."
Today's new endorsements include:

Rev. Dr. William Foster, Providence Missionary Baptist Church
Bishop Horace Smith, M.D., Apostolic Faith Church
Dr. Byron Brazier, Apostolic Church of God
Pastor Chris Harris, Bright Star Church Chicago
Rev. Bernard L. Jakes, West Point Missionary Baptist Church
Rev. Johnny L. Miller, Mt. Vernon Baptist Church
Rev. Walter Johnson, Greater Institutional AME Church
Rev. David T. Whittley, Corinthian Temple Church
Bishop Simon Gordon, Triedstone Church of Chicago
Bishop Virgil Bracket, Rhema Word Church
Rev. Walter Turner, New Spiritual Light Missionary Baptist
Bishop Charles E. Davis, Indiana Ave. Apostolic Pentecostal Church
Bishop Edwin Walker, Friendly Temple Church of God in Christ
Rev. Robert McCottrell, New Dimensions Church
Rev. Roosevelt Watkins, Bethlehem Star Missionary Church
Pastor James Brooks, Harmony Community Church
Pastor Ray Berryhill, Resurrected Life Church International
Bishop Terry Sanders, New Life Church of God in Christ
Bishop Claude Porter, Proviso Missionary Baptist Church
Pastor John Harrell, Proviso Missionary Baptist Church
Apostle Matthew Stevenson, All Nations Worship Assembly
Pastor Michael Martin, All Nations Worship Assembly
Rev. Martin Alexander, Union Missionary Baptist Church
Rev. Al Sampson, Soul Slate PAC

These faith leaders add to a growing list of more than 100 Illinois leaders supporting Biden, including Members of Congress Raja Krishnamoorthi, Bobby Rush, Brad Schneider, Danny Davis, Mike Quigley, Robin Kelly, Sean Casten, and Bill Foster; U.S. Senators Dick Durbin and Tammy Duckworth; Secretary of State Jesse White; Comptroller Susana A. Mendoza; Chicago Mayor Lori Lightfoot; former Senator and Ambassador Carol Moseley Braun; and state legislators, mayors, and community leaders from across Illinois.
Biden for President has previously announced more than 2,100 endorsements from national, state, and local leaders, including current and former U.S. senators and representatives, governors, state elected officials, community leaders, and national security professionals.
Note: Church affiliations are for identification purposes only. The individuals listed above have endorsed in their individual capacity and not on behalf of any organization or entity.
  