
    The President today appointed J. Peter Grace as Chairman of the Private Sector Survey on Cost Control in the Federal Government.
Mr. Grace is chairman and chief executive officer of W. R. Grace and Co., an international chemical company founded more than a century ago. He joined W. R. Grace and Co. following his graduation from Yale University, holding the positions of secretary, director, vice president, president, and chief executive officer. He was elected to his present position in May 1981.
Throughout his career, he has been associated with numerous business organizations, public service groups, and educational institutions. He is a director of Citicorp and Citibank; Kennecott Corp.; Ingersoll-Rand Co.; Stone and Webster, Inc.; Brascan, Ltd.; Milliken and Co.; and Omnicars, Inc. He is also a trustee of the Atlantic Mutual Insurance Co. and chairman of the board and director of Chemed Corp.
Mr. Grace's professional memberships include the Council on Foreign Relations, the Emergency Committee for American Trade (founding member), the Development Committee of the National Bureau of Economic Research, the International Center for Economic Research, the International Center for Economic Policy Studies (director), the United States Council of the International Chamber of Commerce (trustee), Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty (director), and the Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty Fund, Inc. (chairman).
He is a trustee of the University of Notre Dame, member-trustee and president of Grace Institute, treasurer and trustee of the National Jewish Hospital and Research Center/National Asthma Center, and president and director of the Catholic Youth Organization of the Archdiocese of New York. He has been awarded honorary degrees by 11 institutions of higher learning and has been decorated by the Governments of Colombia, Chile, Ecuador, Panama, and Peru for his services to those nations. Mr. Grace is president and a member of the board of founders of the American Association of Master Knights of the Sovereign Military Order of Malta, a knight Grand Cross of the Equestrian Order of the Holy Sepulcher of Jerusalem, and a member of the Cardinal's Committee of the Laity.
Mr. Grace is the recipient of numerous awards and honors from professional, educational, and religious organizations. He was born in Manhasset, Long Island, in 1913, and resides on Long Island, N.Y.
The President also appointed James W. Nance as Director and Janet Colson as Deputy Director of the Private Sector Survey.
  