
    Today, former Chairman of the North Carolina Legislative Black Caucus and former State Representative Ken Spaulding endorsed Joe Biden for President in the 2020 Democratic Primary. Spaulding was a Democratic candidate for Governor of North Carolina in 2016 and won more than 323,000 votes in the 2016 Democratic Primary. Representative Spaulding is also a past chair of the Durham Committee On the Affairs of Black People, North Carolina's oldest civil rights organization, which has also endorsed Joe Biden for President.
"Based on the strong leadership and vote of the unified African American community in South Carolina for Joe Biden to be the nominee of our Party, it is clear to me that in order for the Black vote to be effective throughout the national state primaries, the North Carolina African American community should unite behind the most experienced, loyal and qualified candidate in the field, Joe Biden.
"I endorse and support Joe Biden and encourage my previous supporters to give Joe the same consideration. Vice President Biden was a faithful and loyal Vice President to President Barack Obama, and a President Joe Biden will continue the commitment to the black community and our specific concerns."
The Durham Committee on the Affairs for Black People has endorsed Joe Biden for President. Joe Biden also has the support of all three Democratic U.S. House members in North Carolina and more endorsements in the Tar Heel State than any other Democratic candidate. This includes the support of 25 current and former elected officials in North Carolina, including mayors, state lawmakers, city, and county officials, candidates for office, local activists, both members of North Carolina's Congressional Black Caucus: Congressman G. K. Butterfield and Congresswoman Alma Adams, and Chair of the North Carolina Legislative Black Caucus, Paul Lowe. Earlier this month, Biden received the endorsement of Anthony Foxx, former Secretary of Transportation and mayor of Charlotte.
Biden for President has previously announced more than 1,400 endorsements from national, state, and local leaders, including current and former U.S. senators and representatives, governors, state elected officials, community leaders, and national security professionals.
  