
    
In tonight's Republican debate, Donald Trump tried to avoid his record of outsourcing jobs.
Watch Donald Trump tell David Letterman that people in Bangladesh need jobs too:

For note, Marco's store is full of products made in the United States.
Get the Facts:
October 2015: Trump: "That's true" that Trump clothing line is made in part in Mexico and China. 
WALLACE: "But this brings up the point, the conservative American Enterprise Institute says, look, Donald Trump, he owns a dozen hotels, properties, all over the world.  Your Trump Collection clothing line, some of it is made in Mexico…" TRUMP:  "It's true." WALLACE: "…and China." TRUMP:  "That's true. I want it to be made here." (Fox's "Fox News Sunday," 10/18/15)
April 2011: ABC News: "Donald Trump Blames China for Fact That Much of His Gear is 'Made in China.'"
"[The Trump Store was] selling $80 Trump-branded cotton sweaters and $70 Trump-branded warm-up tops, all made in China. Also available with the made in China tag: golf hats stamped with the Trump crest and stuffed animals. Visitors also could buy leather made-in-China belts priced at $45 that are advertised as 'So soft, it feels like a million bucks.' And in the display case were neat stacks of colorful Trump-branded polo shirts that would be perfect wear for one of Trump's golf courses. The shirts, which sell for $70, were not made in China, but nearby, in Korea and Thailand. … All the Trump tie pins ($22) and tie clips ($28) are labeled as 'Made in China,' as are the cufflinks ($35 to $45 a pair) and even the boxes containing them." (ABC News, 4/28/11)
Donald Trump told students at Trump University that outsourcing jobs is not always a terrible thing. 
"Back in the days of Trump's blog on the website of his now-defunct Trump University website, however, he wrote a post in defense of outsourcing titled, 'Outsourcing Creates Jobs in the Long Run.' 'We hear terrible things about outsourcing jobs — how sending work outside of our companies is contributing to the demise of American businesses,' wrote Trump. 'But in this instance I have to take the unpopular stance that it is not always a terrible thing.' 'I understand that outsourcing means that employees lose jobs,' continued Trump. 'Because work is often outsourced to other countries, it means Americans lose jobs. In other cases, nonunion employees get the work. Losing jobs is never a good thing, but we have to look at the bigger picture.'" (BuzzFeed, 3/2/16)

  