
    
  Kathleen Miller, wife of popular former Tea Party U.S. Senate candidate, "proudly" stands with Paul

ANCHORAGE, Alaska — 2012 Republican Presidential candidate Ron Paul was endorsed today by Kathleen Miller, wife of Joe Miller, a popular Tea Party Republican nominee for U.S. Senate in the state of Alaska during the 2010 election.
Organizational affiliations preclude Mr. Miller from making public his support for any presidential candidate. However, his biography follows the public endorsement and following statement issued by Mrs. Miller alone:
"I am supporting Ron Paul because he is the only candidate who is truly committed to following the Constitution and its original intent. Dr. Paul also understands and is committed to addressing the extreme fiscal crisis our nation is faced with.
"At this point in our nation's history, we cannot risk more business as usual. The circumstances demand a leader who will take his oath of office seriously and who will confront the ingrained corruption the marks modern American politics.
"I proudly stand with Dr. Paul and Carol as they continue their fight for liberty."
Joe Miller shocked the political world on August 24, 2010 when he, according to media accounts, came out of nowhere to defeat incumbent Senator Lisa Murkowski in the Alaskan Republican Primary. He then entered into a contentious three-way general election, where federal contractors and others who benefited from the status quo waged a multimillion-dollar campaign and managed to help narrowly defeat Joe.
Joe graduated from West Point in the top 1 percent of the Class of 1989. He then served as an armor officer with the 1st Infantry Division, seeing combat in Operation Desert Storm. During his service, he was decorated with the Bronze Star, Meritorious Service Medal and other awards. After active duty, Joe attended Yale Law School where he earned his juris doctorate. He also holds a Master's Degree in Economics from the University of Alaska.
Joe's commitment to public service continued following his move to Alaska, which was the fulfillment of a long held dream. At the age of 30, he was appointed as a State Magistrate (the youngest then serving in Alaska). Further honors followed four years later when Miller was appointed an Acting State District Court Judge and, shortly thereafter, U.S. Magistrate Judge in Fairbanks. Again, he had the distinction of being the youngest then serving in that federal position, not only in the state, but also in the entire nation. He later served as a part-time borough attorney, while he ran a successful law practice.
Joe and Kathleen currently reside in Fairbanks with their children and have been married for over 19 years.
Providing a strong boost to Ron Paul's Alaska organization, such endorsements present Ron Paul as the conservative alternative to Mitt Romney. They also demonstrate that the 12-term Congressman from Texas has the only campaign organization capable of maintaining a 50-state competition with the moderate-establishment Romney.
  