
    WASHINGTON, DC – Today, President Barack Obama announced his intent to appoint the following individuals to key Administration posts:
•      Henry Claypool – Member, Commission on Long-Term Care
•      Julian Harris – Member, Commission on Long-Term Care
•      Carol Raphael – Member, Commission on Long-Term Care
•      Diana Shaw Clark – Member, United States Holocaust Memorial Council
•      Greg A. Rosenbaum – Member, United States Holocaust Memorial Council
President Obama said, "I am proud that such experienced and committed individuals have agreed to serve the American people in these important roles. I look forward to working with them in the months and years ahead."
President Obama announced his intent to appoint the following individuals to key Administration posts:
Henry Claypool, Appointee for Member, Commission on Long-Term Care
Henry Claypool is the Executive Vice President of the American Association of People with Disabilities, a position he has held since January 2013. Previously, Mr. Claypool served as Principal Deputy Administrator of the Administration for Community Living at the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), where he also advised the Secretary on disability policy. From 2009 to 2012, Mr. Claypool was Director of the Office of Disability at HHS, and from 2006 to 2009, he was Policy Director of Independence Care System. From 2005 to 2006, he served as Senior Advisor to the Associate Commissioner of the Office of Employment Support Programs at the Social Security Administration, and from 2002 to 2004, he served as Co-Director of Advancing Independence. Mr. Claypool worked at the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services from 1999 to 2001 and at the Administration on Development Disabilities in 1998. In 2007, he served on Virginia's Health Reform Commission. Mr. Claypool received a B.A. from the University of Colorado at Boulder.
Dr. Julian Harris, Appointee for Member, Commission on Long-Term Care 
Dr. Julian Harris is the Director of the Office of Medicaid in Massachusetts, a position he has held since July 2011. He oversees the state's $11 billion Medicaid program that provides comprehensive health insurance for children, families, seniors, and people with disabilities. From 2008 to 2011, Dr. Harris trained in internal medicine and primary care at the Brigham & Women's Hospital while serving as a clinical fellow on the faculty of Harvard Medical School. Concurrently, he practiced as a hospitalist physician with the Cambridge Health Alliance. In 2006 and 2007, he worked as a consultant, first at the AIDS Support Organization in Uganda and later at BioAdvance Life Sciences Fund and McKinsey & Company. Previously, he worked at the World Bank as a consultant for Global Core Courses on Reproductive Health and Health Sector Reform. Dr. Harris is a Truman and Rhodes Scholar. He received a B.A. from Duke University, a M.Sc. from Oxford University, an M.B.A. from the Wharton School of Business, and an M.D. from the University of Pennsylvania.
Carol Raphael, Appointee for Member, Commission on Long-Term Care 
Carol Raphael is the Vice Chair of the American Association of Retired Persons (AARP) Board of Directors, a position she has held since May 2012. From 1989 to 2011, she was Chief Executive Officer and President of Visiting Nurse Service of New York. In 1989, Ms. Raphael served as a Director of Operations Management at Mount Sinai Medical Center in New York City. She is Chair of the Long Term Quality Alliance and the National Quality Forum Workgroup on Post-Acute and Long-Term Care. She is a member of the Henry Schein, Inc. Board of Directors and a former member of the Medicare Payment Advisory Commission. Ms. Raphael received a B.A. from City College of City University of New York and an M.P.A. from the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University.
Diana Shaw Clark, Appointee for Member, United States Holocaust Memorial Council
Diana Shaw Clark is a freelance writer and philanthropist. Since 2011, she has served as the Principal Organizer of the Drop-In Center for Destitute Asylum Seekers, a project of the West London Synagogue of British Jews. Additionally, she is the Synagogue's Vice Chair for Community Development and sits on its Executive Committee. She worked as a consultant for various film and television production companies in California from 1986 to 1990. From 1987 to 1990, she authored a regular food column for the Los Angeles Times, and from 1983 to 1986, she was a writer for TV Guide Magazine. She has published several cookbooks, advice books, and novels for young adults. Ms. Shaw Clark received a B.A. in U.S. History from Harvard Radcliffe College.
Greg A. Rosenbaum, Appointee for Member, United States Holocaust Memorial Council
Greg A. Rosenbaum is founder and President of Palisades Associates, Inc. Previously, he was CEO of Empire Kosher Poultry, Inc. from 2006 to 2012 and Chairman of the Board from 2003 to 2012. He served as a founding Managing Director of The Carlyle Group from 1987 to 1988 and as a Vice President of The Dyson-Kissner-Moran Corporation from 1982 to 1987. He is Co-Chair of the Jewish American Heritage Month Foundation and a Director of the National Jewish Democratic Council. Mr. Rosenbaum was named Humanitarian of the Year by the Metropolitan Council on Jewish Poverty in 2011, and he received the Human Rights Award from the Jewish Labor Committee in 2007. Mr. Rosenbaum received an A.B. from Harvard College, a J.D. from Harvard Law School, and an M.P.P. from the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University.
  