
    "We were disappointed to learn that Sen. Obama declined to meet with Shaun Woodward, the British Secretary of State for Northern Ireland, while he was in Washington, DC, especially since Senator Obama is the chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee on European Affairs. As chair of this important subcommittee, Senator Obama should tell voters the work he has done to strengthen the relationship between the U.S. and Northern Ireland as well as the U.S. and Ireland. Senator Clinton did meet with Secretary Woodward last week and met with Ireland's Taoiseach Bertie Ahern today in Washington to discuss the progress of Ireland's peace process and other issues facing Ireland and the Irish-American community.
"In advance of Senator Obama's remarks tonight at the Society of Irish Women's dinner in Scranton, we urge Senator Obama and his campaign to address the issues important to Irish-American voters. First, the Obama campaign should explain what Senator Obama did to help advance peace in Northern Ireland.
"As First Lady and then U.S. Senator, Hillary Clinton traveled to Northern Ireland and Ireland seven times between 1995 and 2004, and gave what Northern Irish leader and Nobel Laureate John Hume recently described as "decisive support" to the peace process in Northern Ireland. She focused especially on encouraging the emergence of women in the political process. In addition, Sen. Clinton's work at the grass roots and behind-the-scenes helped cultivate the conditions necessary for the peace to take hold and last.
"Second, Irish-American voters want to know what Senator Obama would do as President to ensure that peace in Northern Ireland continues. As President, Hillary Clinton is committed to achieving lasting peace and reconciliation and to supporting the Northern Ireland government, building on her 13 years of working for peace and prosperity in Northern Ireland.
"As the 10-year anniversary of the Good Friday Agreement approaches, Senator Clinton salutes the brave and tireless efforts of the parties to the pact, and the contributions of so many citizens to the resolution of the conflict and the achievement of peace. As President, Hillary Clinton's administration will deepen and strengthen ties between the United States and Northern Ireland, and between the people of the United States and those who live on the island of Ireland. [Click here] to read more about Sen. Clinton's Northern Ireland plan.
"Senator Obama has an excellent opportunity to share his record and plan with voters during the Irish American Presidential Forum. We encourage Senator Obama to accept the invitation and attend this important event to discuss the issues important to Irish-American voters. Senators Clinton and McCain have both accepted this invitation and we urge Senator Obama to do the same."
  