
    
  Jason Stern supports Paul because "he has shown consistent regard for the Constitution and the God-given rights and liberties it protects."

BATON ROUGE, Louisiana — 2012 Republican Presidential candidate Ron Paul was endorsed today by the Chairman of the Livingston Parish Republican Party, Jason Stern of Walker.
Livingston Parish's main population centers include Albany, Denham Springs, French Settlement, Killian, Livingston, Port Vincent, Springfield and Walker, comprising about 130,000 people.
In endorsing Ron Paul, Mr. Stern mentioned he was doing so as an individual and not on behalf of any organization or its members. He issued the following statement:
"My family supports Ron Paul because throughout his career he has shown consistent regard for the Constitution and the God-given rights and liberties it protects.
"Dr. Paul's pro-life, pro-family values are near and dear to our hearts and his no-nonsense approach to government and foreign policy are attractive qualities for the Executive Branch.
"If America is going to return to greatness, now is the day to act. Electing another quasi-conservative whose goal is to 'do big government better' is a great reason to strongly support Dr. Paul's candidacy."
Jason Stern is serving his second term as Livingston Parish Republican Party Chairman, is currently Vice President of the American Judicial Alliance, and a former Vice President of the Louisiana Family Forum. Mr. Stern has been married to Andrea Rice Stern for over 14 years, and is active with their nine children in home education leadership as well as their church community.
This announcement is preceded by earlier declarations of support by Louisiana State Rep. Joel Robideaux and former state GOP Deputy Chair Charlie Davis.
Providing a strong boost to Ron Paul's Louisiana state organization, such endorsements present Ron Paul as the conservative alternative to Mitt Romney. They also demonstrate that the 12-term Congressman from Texas has the only campaign organization capable of maintaining a 50-state competition with the moderate-establishment Romney.
  