
    Pool Reports by Eugene Daniels, POLITICO 



Sent:
Reports:




March 1, 202110:46

In-Town Pool Report #1 - BAD WEATHER CALL AND LUNCH LID
Good morning!
A final bad weather call was just announced so POTUS will be motorcading from JBA to the White House, out of town pool will be with the president and handling. A lunch lid was just called until 11:30.
Next event is the noon press briefing. If you would like to submit questions for the briefing, I’d be happy to add some to my list and try and ask on your behalf!
Eugene



March 1, 202112:04

In town pool #2 - two minute warning 
Two minute press briefing announced.



March 1, 202113:54

In-Town Pool #3: Names of Senators meeting with President Biden virtually 
From WH:Today, the President will be meeting virtually with Democratic Senators at 1:45 PM. Attendees will be:Senator Tom Carper (DE)Senator Maggie Hassan (NH)Senator John Hickenlooper (CO)Senator Angus King (ME)Senator Joe Manchin (WV)Senator Jeanne Shaheen (NH)Senator Jon Tester (MT)Senator Mark Warner (VA)Senator Dick Durbin (IL) (tentative)



March 1, 202116:18

In Town Pool #4 - More info on Bidenmeeting with Dems 
Sent by the White House to the pool:
President Biden was joined this afternoon by nine Democratic Senators for a virtual discussion on the next steps in passing the American Rescue Plan following the House’s vote on Saturday. The group had a good discussion and was united in the goal of quickly passing a significant package that reflects the scope of the challenges our country is facing. The President looks forward to speedy passage of the Rescue Plan, and is committed to continuing to stay in close contact with leaders and members on Capitol Hill in the coming days to get the bill across the finish line.
Joining the meeting were:
Senator Tom Carper (DE)Senator Dick Durbin (IL)Senator Maggie Hassan (NH)Senator John Hickenlooper (CO)Senator Angus King (ME)Senator Joe Manchin (WV)Senator Jeanne Shaheen (NH)Senator Jon Tester (MT)Senator Mark Warner (VA)
Senators Kyrsten Sinema (AZ) and Mark Kelly (AZ) were also invited but were on flights returning to DC.
Thanks!



March 1, 202116:48

In-town pool #5- Pool gathering for bilat 
Your pool is waiting outside the Roosevelt Room. Event was supposed to begin 4:30.
The President will be meeting virtually with the President of Mexico and per guidance:
In the afternoon, the President will meet virtually with President Andrés Manuel López Obrador. The two leaders will discuss cooperation on migration, joint development efforts in Southern Mexico and Central America, COVID-19 recovery, and economic cooperation.
Will update with quotes and color and start time when we get in the room.



March 1, 202116:58

In pool report 6 - walking in 
4:57 we walked



March 1, 202117:09

In town pool report #7: Participants in bilat from WH 
On background from the Office of the President:
In-Person Participants:- Tony Blinken, Secretary of State- Alejandro Mayorkas, Secretary of Homeland Security- Jake Sullivan, National Security Advisor- Elizabeth Sherwood-Randall, Deputy National Security Advisor for Homeland Security- Roberta Jacobson, Coordinator for U.S. Southern Border- Juan Gonzalez, Senior Director for the Western Hemisphere
Virtual Participants:- Andrés Manuel López Obrador, President of Mexico- John Creamer, Chargé d’Affaires, U.S. Embassy Mexico City (via video teleconference)- Marcelo Ebrard Casaubon, Secretary of Foreign Affairs- Tatiana Clouthier Carrilo, Secretary of Economy- Rosa Icela Rodríguez, Secretary of Public Security and Citizen Protection- General André Georges Foullon Van Lissum, Under Secretary of National Defense- Admiral Eduardo Redondo Arámburo, Under Secretary of the Navy- Dr. Francisco Garduño Yáñez, National Commissioner of the National Institute of Immigration- Esteban Moctezuma Barragán, Ambassador-designate of Mexico to the United States



March 1, 202117:14

In town pool #8 - Remarks and color from Top of bilat 
Quotes and statements from Biden to president tod Mexico. As always, please check sound bites against transcript. Biden is sitting between an American and Mexican flag. He's wearing a blue suit with a stripped blue tie.
President Biden starts by saying: "Delighted to be with you." Pointed out this his second bilat with a foreign leader. Reminded Mexican President "Of the 16 visits I made to Latin America as VP, four of them were to Mexico and I was honeored to meet you."
I "got to know Mexico a little bit and its people." Talked about his visit to the Virgin of Guadalupe."
The President also talked about still having his son Beau's rosary beads he was wearing when he passed away.
"The United States and Mexico are stronger when we stand together ... We Haven't been perfect neighbors to each other." Says the countries are "safer when we work together."
During the "Obama Biden administration, we looked at Mexico as an equal. You are equal."
"What you do in Mexico and how you succeed"affects the rest of the hemisphere.
Biden pints out systems of "Hispanics" in US. And shares that he has the Cesar Chavez bust in OVAL.
President did not answer shouted questions. One was on whether the US would send vaccines to Mexico.
President said: "We're going to talk about that."
Pool ushered out at 5:12 by my watch.



March 1, 202117:57

In town pool report #9 - Lid called.
Travel and photo Lid called at 5:55.




  