
    Senator Clinton today is proud to announce the endorsement of two distinguished, retired admirals, Vice Admiral Donald C. Arthur and Rear Admiral Stuart F. Platt. They join an eminent group of 30 retired admirals and generals who have endorsed Senator Clinton to be our nation's next Commander-in-Chief.
Vice Admiral Arthur, JD, PhD, MD, announced his support today. He recently concluded a 33-year career in the US Navy, culminating in his role as its 35th Surgeon General. As Surgeon General, he was responsible for delivery of medical and dental services to over 700,000 active duty service members and 2.6 million retirees and family members. Dr. Arthur has been the Chief Executive Officer of two medical facilities: the National Naval Medical Center in Bethesda, Maryland, and the Naval Hospital in Camp Lejeune, North Carolina. For five years, he was Chief of the Navy Medical Corps, responsible for personnel policies, recruiting, career planning, graduate medical education, research activities, and all other professional programs for the Navy's 4100 physicians. He also saw combat action while assigned to a Marine Corps unit during Operation Desert Storm.
Rear Admiral Platt announced his support for Senator Clinton on Sunday. He has enjoyed a distinguished 31-year military career in the United States Navy, where he led a historic reform program to improve the way the Navy buys ships, aircraft and weapons systems. He was Deputy Commander of the Naval Sea Systems, where he was responsible for the acquisition of Navy surface ships and submarines during the buildup of the 600-ship Navy. Admiral Platt holds a Master of Science degree from the William E. Simon Graduate School of Business at the University of Rochester as well as an MBA from the School of Business at the University of Michigan.
Many of our nation's most distinguished military officers stand proudly with Hillary Clinton because they believe that she has the strength, experience and leadership necessary to be President and Commander-in-Chief. They include five former general and flag officers at the rank of four stars, including two former chairmen and one vice-chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. In addition, more than 2,000 veterans and military retirees are members of Senator Clinton's national and state veterans' steering committees.
Former Admirals and Generals Endorsing Hillary Clinton for President and Commander-in-Chief

General Wesley Clark
General John M. Shalikashvili
General Henry Hugh Shelton
General Johnnie E. Wilson
Admiral William Owens
Lt. Gen. Joe Ballard
Lt. Gen. Robert Gard
Lt. Gen. Claudia J. Kennedy
Lt. Gen. Donald L. Kerrick
Lt. Gen. Frederick E. Vollrath
Vice Admiral Donald C. Arthur
Vice Admiral Joseph A. Sestak
Major General Roger R. Blunt
Major General George A. Buskirk, Jr.
Major General Edward L. Correa, Jr.
Major General Paul D. Eaton
Major General Paul D. Monroe, Jr.
Major General Antonio M. Taguba
Rear Admiral Connie Mariano
Rear Admiral Stuart F. Platt
Rear Admiral Alan M. Steinman
Rear Admiral David Stone
Brigadier General Michael Dunn
Brigadier General Belisario Flores
Brigadier General Evelyn "Pat" Foote
Brigadier General Keith H. Kerr
Brigadier General Virgil A. Richard
Brigadier General Preston Taylor
Brigadier General John M. Watkins, Jr.
Brigadier General Jack Yeager

  