
    Memorandum for:
The Secretary of State
The Secretary of the Treasury
The Secretary of Agriculture
The Secretary of Commerce
The Secretary of Labor
The Director, office of Management and Budget
The Chairman, Council of Economic Advisers
The Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs
The Executive Director of the Domestic Council
The Special Representative for Trade Negotiations
The Executive Director of the Council on International Economic Policy
The Honorable David M. Kennedy
Pursuant to my memorandum of January 18, 1971, establishing the Council on International Economic Policy, this memorandum establishes a Special Working Group of the Council for textile trade policy.
The Special Working Group will be chaired by Ambassador [at Large] Kennedy and will in addition consist of the Assistant Secretaries of State, the Treasury, Agriculture, Commerce, and Labor, the Special Representative for Trade Negotiations, and the Executive Director of the Council on International Economic policy.
The duties of the Special Working Group are these:
1. Advise generally with respect to policies affecting actions by the United States concerning international trade in textiles and textile products under Section 204 of the Agricultural Act of 1956 and other laws.
2. Establish procedures by which the Committee for the Implementation of Textile Agreements shall, under the policy guidance of the Special Working Group, take actions with respect to the rights and obligations of the United States under Articles 3 and 6 of the Long Term Arrangement Regarding Trade in Cotton Textiles.
3. Develop policy proposals with respect to the negotiation of additional bilateral and multilateral textile trade agreements.
The Committee for the Implementation of Textile Agreements will submit to the Special Working Group such reports and recommendations concerning textile trade policy and the implementation of textile trade agreements as the Special Working Group may request.
RICHARD NIXON
  