
    
  "Cruz Has the Character, the Temperament, and the Values to Lead"

HOUSTON, Texas - Presidential candidate Ted Cruz today announced the endorsement of Julaine Appling, president of Wisconsin Family Action*, the state's leading pro-family organization, as well as the endorsement of Wisconsin Family Action PAC.
"Senator Cruz is a man of integrity who has kept the promises he made when he ran for Senate," Appling said. "He has a proven track record of standing up for the Constitution, religious liberties, and traditional American values. I'm excited that we are not being asked to choose between the lesser of two evils at the ballot box - in Ted Cruz, we have a champion to support!"
"I am honored to have the support of Julaine Appling and the Wisconsin Family Action PAC," Cruz said. "Wisconsin residents rightly feel threatened by a federal government that is standing in the way of individual liberty and economic prosperity. Our families deserve better, and I'm running for president to reverse the negative policies of the Obama administration and to bring economic prosperity back to Wisconsin families.
"Life, marriage, and the family are essential pillars of our society," Cruz continued. "This week, as Christians mourn the loss of EWTN founder Mother Angelica, we remember her beautiful description of marriage: '[It is] a sign to the world of the invisible God living in our midst - the living God who bears fruit in the lives of two people.' Wisconsin Family Action is dedicated to upholding the sacrament of marriage and strengthening families, and I am grateful for Julaine's leadership and support of our campaign as we work to restore a welcoming culture for life and marriage."
Ms. Appling serves as president of Wisconsin Family Action* and Wisconsin Family Action PAC, organizations committed to supporting marriage, life, religious liberty, school choice, and lower taxation for Wisconsin families. Both organizations are also dedicated to fighting the expansion of gambling in the state, as well as the harmful effects of pornography.
"Wisconsin Family Action PAC is pleased to endorse US Senator Ted Cruz for president," the group said in a statement. "We believe Senator Cruz has the character, the temperament, and the right values to lead America. He has proven throughout his career and during the campaign that he understands the importance of strengthening, preserving, and promoting in this country natural marriage and family, the sanctity of human life, and constitutionally-provided religious freedom."
*Titles and affiliations are provided for identification purposes only.
  