
    The following list does not include promotions of members of the Uniformed Services, nominations to the Service Academies, or nominations of Foreign Service officers.
Submitted March 7
Edward William Gnehm, Jr., of Georgia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be the Deputy Representative of the United States of America to the United Nations, with the rank and status of Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary.
David Elias Birenbaum, of the District of Columbia, to be Representative of the United States of America to the United Nations for U.N. Management and Reform, with the rank of Ambassador.
Submitted March 8
Barbara C. Jurkas, of Michigan, to be U.S. Marshal for the Western District of Michigan for the term of 4 years, vice John R. Kendall.
Ernestine Rowe, of Colorado, to be U.S. Marshal for the District of Colorado for the term of 4 years, vice Jack Egnor.
Leonard Trupo, of West Virginia, to be U.S. Marshal for the Northern District of West Virginia for the term of 4 years, vice Ronald A. Donell.
Submitted March 9
Billy Michael Burrage, of Oklahoma, to be U.S. District Judge for the Northern, Eastern, and Western Districts of Oklahoma, vice H. Dale Cook, retired.
Clarence Cooper, of Georgia, to be U.S. District Judge for the Northern District of Georgia, vice Richard C. Freeman, retired.
Denise Page Hood, of Michigan, to be U.S. District Judge for the Eastern District of Michigan, vice George E. Woods, retired.
Terry C. Kern, of Oklahoma, to be U.S. District Judge for the Northern District of Oklahoma (new position).
Solomon Oliver, Jr., of Ohio, to be U.S. District Judge for the Northern District of Ohio, vice Alice M. Batchelder, elevated.
Richard A. Paez, of California, to be U.S. District Judge for the Central District of California (new position).
Submitted March 11
Clark G. Fiester, of California, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Air Force, vice G. Kim Wincup, resigned.
Kate Pew Wolters, of Michigan, to be a member of the National Council on Disability for a term expiring September 17, 1995, vice Alvis Kent Waldrep, Jr., term expired.
  