
    60-Second Spots "Invisible" and "Neighbor" to Air Statewide
The Clinton campaign today announced it is launching its first two radio advertisements to air statewide in Mississippi.
The 60-second spots entitled "Invisible" and "Neighbor" highlight Hillary's record of accomplishment on issues important to Mississippi families.
Listen to "Invisible" here.
Listen to "Neighbor" here.
Following are the scripts for the ads.
"Invisible Mississippi"
Radio :60
Announcer: Hillary Clinton has spent her life standing up for those others don't see.
Hillary Clinton: "Too many Americans today feel as though they are invisible. If you are a child in a crumbling school...you are invisible to this President."
Announcer: She's working to end the unfunded mandate on our schools known as No Child Left Behind... help every child live up to their god given potential
Hillary Clinton: If you're a mother without health care, a father without a job, you're invisible as well.
Announcer: Hillary expanded health clinics in rural Arkansas, won health coverage for 6 million children, [83,000 in Mississippi alone...]
Hillary Clinton: If your stuck on a rooftop during a hurricane, you're invisible to this President even when you're on CNN.
Announcer: And she's voted consistently to fund the reconstruction of the Gulf Coast.
Hillary Clinton: Well, you are not invisible to me and you should never be invisible to the President of the United States.
Announcer: Paid for by Hillary Clinton for President.
Hillary Clinton: I'm Hillary Clinton, candidate for president, and I approved this message. ____________________
"Neighbor Mississippi"
Radio :60
Announcer: They said she couldn't do it. They counted her out. But Hillary Clinton fought back. And she won big.
Maybe that's why Barack Obama is running false attack ads against her now.
But Hillary thinks Mississippians deserve the truth about what she's done and what she'll do.
When Katrina and Rita struck, Hillary was one of the first people in the country to call for FEMA to be a separate agency, run by a professional, not by the [former] head of a horse association.
And she's stayed with it... fighting to stop giving bonuses to contractors who aren't doing their jobs.
Hillary spent 18 years as our neighbor in Arkansas. She worked to improve the schools and expand rural health clinics.
In the White House and the Senate, she won health coverage for six million children, 83,000 right here in Mississippi
...and expanded access to health care for 12,000 members of the Mississippi National Guard.
You know Hillary will fight for Mississippi...because she already has.
Paid for by Hillary Clinton for President.
Hillary Clinton: I'm Hillary Clinton, candidate for President, and I approved this message.
  