
    Chapel Hill, North Carolina — The John Edwards for President campaign announced that Oregon State Senate President Pro Tem Margaret Carter and attorney and democratic activist Robert Stoll would lead the campaign's efforts in Oregon.
"I am glad to have the support of Margaret Carter, Robert Stoll and all these important Oregon leaders," said Edwards. "I look forward to working with them to address the critical issues facing our nation and to fundamentally change America."
Carter is President Pro Tem of the Oregon State Senate and was the Oregon Chair for President Clinton's 1992 and 1996 Presidential campaign.
"I support John Edwards because he is the only candidate that boldly stands up to an issue America wants to hear about and that is poverty," said Carter. "It takes courage and conviction to do that."
Stoll is a Portland attorney and was the chair of Kerry-Edwards campaign in Oregon in 2004. He also chaired Governor Kulongoski's campaigns, among many other campaigns in Oregon.
"John Edwards impresses me because of his clear vision, forthright and clear position on the most important issues facing our country: getting the US out of the Iraq civil war; having a country and world divided between those who have much and those who don't; and honesty and integrity in our government."
Other members of Edwards' Oregon team include:


Peter Bragdon: Vice President and General Counsel of Columbia Sportswear Co., and former Chief of Staff to Governor Kulongoski. Bragdon endorsed Edwards saying, "Senator Edwards has shown a special commitment to issues of importance to Oregonians: protecting the outdoors, investing in education, and promoting real economic opportunity for all -- the same issues we pursued in the Kulongoski Administration. Above all he has demonstrated the character Oregonians respect: the guts to take positions on critical issues and the passion to pursue them."
Homer Williams: Urban Developer.
Kevin Looper: Political Consultant and 2004 Oregon Director of America Votes Coalition.
Beth Bernard: Executive Director of the Oregon Trial Lawyers Association.
Jesse Cornett: Vice Chair of the Oregon Democratic Party and member of the Democratic National Committee.
Kari Chisolm: Owner and Director of Mandate Media and "Blue Oregon," a leading progressive blog and website in Oregon.

  