
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Kevin Madden (857) 288-6400
Boston, MA – Today, Governor Mitt Romney announced that Miami-Dade County Commission Chairman Bruno A. Barreiro and City of Miramar Vice-Mayor Troy R. Samuels have endorsed his candidacy for President of the United States.
"I am proud to have the support of Chairman Barreiro and Vice-Mayor Samuels. They are both respected and accomplished leaders in South Florida," said Governor Romney. "Our country faces a new generation of challenges that requires innovative, bold solutions. Chairman Barreiro and Vice-Mayor Samuels understand that we need to bring real change to Washington. I am honored they have joined the strong team we have built in Florida."
Chairman Barreiro and Vice-Mayor Samuels join a growing list of South Florida leaders endorsing Governor Romney, including Al Cardenas, former Chairman of the Florida Republican Party and a Chair of the Romney for President Florida Steering Committee, and State Representative Anitere Flores, a Co-Chair of the Romney for President Florida Steering Committee.
Background On South Florida Leaders:
Bruno A. Barreiro Is The Chairman Of The Miami-Dade County Board Of Commissioners. Chairman Barreiro has served as a Miami-Dade County Commissioner since 1998. His Commission district includes portions of the Cities of Miami and Miami Beach, as well as the communities of Little Havana, Downtown, and South Beach. Elected to the Florida House of Representatives in 1992, Chairman Barreiro represented District 107 until his election to the County Commission. Professionally, Chairman Barreiro is the President of BABJ Investment Corporation.
Troy R. Samuels Is The Vice-Mayor Of The City Of Miramar. Vice-Mayor Samuels currently works for Deerwood Estates, Inc., a residential home builder, where he is the financial controller and the general contractor of record. Vice Mayor Samuels was elected to the Miramar City Commission in 2005, and this past year he was appointed by his peers on the city commission to serve as vice mayor of the city. He represents the City of Miramar on the Broward League of Cities where he is the sitting co-chair of the Endorsement Committee. Vice-Mayor Samuels has also served for the last two years as a Florida delegate to the National League of Cities' Congressional City Conference in Washington D.C.
  