
    IN MY State of the Union Message, I outlined a comprehensive program to address the Nation's energy and economic problems. My energy program includes measures to encourage energy conservation, to increase domestic energy production, and to prepare for any future emergency that might result from an oil embargo. I set goals of reducing oil imports by 1 million barrels per day below expected levels by the end of 1975 and 2 million barrels per day by 1977 and achieving energy independence by 1985.
I announced administrative actions and legislative proposals which are necessary to achieve these goals. The Nation is now awaiting action by the Congress on my legislative proposals. I am confident that the Congress will move quickly so that we can minimize the adverse economic impact of the outflow of dollars for imported oil and reduce our vulnerability to disruption by another embargo.
While we wait for the Congress to act, I would like to remind the American people that their voluntary actions can make an important contribution toward achieving our economic and energy goals. Recently, the Senate of the United States adopted a resolution sponsored by Senator Jennings Randolph of West Virginia and 67 other Senators which calls upon me to proclaim an Energy Conservation Month, during which voluntary actions to conserve energy might be intensified.
I welcome this action by the Senate and join the sponsors of the resolution in urging all Americans to renew their efforts to use energy wisely and more efficiently in their homes, offices, schools, farms, industries, commercial establishments, and travel.
The opportunities for voluntary energy conservation and the benefits of conservation are clear. Last September, I established a goal for Federal Government agencies to hold energy consumption in fiscal year 1975 to levels 15 percent below 1973. I am pleased to report that, during the first 6 months of fiscal year 1975, the Federal agencies have held consumption approximately 23 percent below 1973 levels--a savings equivalent to 46 million barrels of oil and a savings in energy costs to Federal taxpayers of $425 million. In addition, the Energy Resources Council is working closely with industry and others to find ways of conserving energy.
The voluntary actions we have taken have made an important contribution, and I call upon the leaders of business and industry, State and local governments, and all the American people to renew and intensify their voluntary energy conservation efforts. The Senate has called for designation of a 1-month period for intensified energy conservation actions. But I am confident that all the Senators who sponsored Senate Resolution 59 will join me in urging all our citizens to make energy conservation a year-round effort.
We know that voluntary actions alone cannot solve our Nation's energy and economic problems. Action by the Congress is needed on the measures I have proposed to increase domestic production and to reduce demand, all of which are essential to the solution of our problem. I trust that Senate Resolution 59 is but the first of the constructive actions that we can expect from the Congress.
  