
    WASHINGTON, DC – Today, President Barack Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key Administration posts:
•      Cynthia L. Attwood – Member, Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission
•      Stuart F. Delery – Assistant Attorney General for the Civil Division, Department of Justice
•      Fred P. Hochberg – President, Export-Import Bank of the United States
•      Allison M. Macfarlane – Member, Nuclear Regulatory Commission, and upon appointment to be designated Chair
•      Patricia M. Wald – Member, Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board
President Obama said, "These men and women have demonstrated knowledge and dedication throughout their careers. I am grateful they have chosen to take on these important roles, and I look forward to working with them in the months and years to come."
President Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key Administration posts:
Cynthia L. Attwood, Nominee for Member, Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission
Cynthia L. Attwood is a Member of the Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission, a position she was appointed to in February 2010. Prior to this, Ms. Attwood held several senior roles at the U.S. Department of Labor from 1979 to 2001, including Appellate Judge on the Administrative Review Board, Associate Solicitor for Occupational Safety and Health in the Office of the Solicitor, and Associate Solicitor for Mine Safety and Health in the Office of the Solicitor. Ms. Attwood spent the early years of her legal career as an appellate attorney in the Civil Rights Division of the U.S. Department of Justice. She was awarded the Presidential Rank Award of Meritorious Executive for outstanding service in the Senior Executive Service in 1992. Ms. Attwood received a B.A. from Oakland University and a J.D. from the University of Minnesota.
Stuart F. Delery, Nominee for Assistant Attorney General for the Civil Division, Department of Justice
Stuart F. Delery is currently the Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General for the Civil Division at the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) where he has served since 2009. His previous positions at DOJ include Acting Assistant Attorney General for the Civil Division, Senior Counselor to the Attorney General, Associate Deputy Attorney General, and Chief of Staff and Counselor to the Deputy Attorney General. Before joining DOJ, Mr. Delery was a partner in the Washington, D.C. office of the law firm WilmerHale, where he was a member of the Litigation Department, the Appellate and Supreme Court Litigation Practice Group, and a Vice Chair of the firm's Securities Department. Mr. Delery clerked for Justices Sandra Day O'Connor and Byron R. White of the U.S. Supreme Court, and Chief Judge Gereld B. Tjoflat of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit. He received a B.A. from the University of Virginia and a J.D. from Yale Law School.
Fred P. Hochberg, Nominee for President, Export-Import Bank of the United States
Fred P. Hochberg is President of the Export-Import Bank of the United States, a position he has held since May 2009. From 2004 to 2008, Mr. Hochberg was Dean of Milano, The New School for Management and Urban Policy in New York. From 1998 to 2001, he served as Deputy Administrator, and then as Acting Administrator of the Small Business Administration (SBA). Prior to SBA, Mr. Hochberg was President and Chief Operating Officer of the Lillian Vernon Corporation. He is a past board member of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, the Citizens Budget Commission, the Foundation for International Community Assistance, and the New York State Financial Control Board. Mr. Hochberg received his B.A. from New York University and an M.B.A from Columbia University.
Dr. Allison M. Macfarlane, Nominee for Commissioner, Nuclear Regulatory Commission, and upon appointment to be designated Chair Dr. Allison M. Macfarlane is Chair and Commissioner of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, a position she has held since July 2012. Previously, she served as an associate professor of Environmental Science and Policy at George Mason University (GMU) from 2006 to 2012. Dr. Macfarlane worked as a research associate at Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) from 2004 to 2006 after previously serving from 2000 to 2003. From 2003 to 2004, she was an associate professor at the Georgia Institute of Technology. She was also a fellow at Harvard University's Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs from 1998 to 2000, and a fellow at Stanford University's Center for International Security and Cooperation from 1997 to 1998. Dr. Macfarlane began her teaching career in the Department of Geography and Earth Systems Science at GMU. She also served as a member of the Blue Ribbon Commission on America's Nuclear Future from January 2010 to January 2012. Dr. Macfarlane received a B.Sc. from the University of Rochester and a Ph.D. in Geology from MIT.
Judge Patricia M. Wald, Nominee for Member, Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board
Judge Patricia M. Wald is a Member of the Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board, a position she has held since August 2012. She served for 20 years on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia from 1979 to 1999, including five years as Chief Judge. Prior to joining the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District Court of Columbia, Judge Wald was the Assistant Attorney General for Legislative Affairs at the Department of Justice. Judge Wald has served in a variety of capacities including Judge on the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia and Member on the President's Commission on the Intelligence Capabilities of the U.S. Regarding Weapons of Mass Destruction. She also previously worked as an attorney at the Mental Health Law Project, the Center for Law and Social Policy, the Office of Criminal Justice at the Department of Justice, and co-director of the Ford Foundation Drug Abuse Research Project. Judge Wald is a member of the American Law Institute and the American Philosophical Society, and a former Chair of the Open Society Institute's Justice Initiative Board. She served as a Member of the Council of the Administrative Conference of the United States from 2010 to 2012. Judge Wald received a B.A. from the Connecticut College for Women and a J.D. from Yale Law School.
  