
    HOUSTON, Texas – Former Republican Presidential Candidate and Hewlett-Packard CEO Carly Fiorina today penned the following op-ed in USA Today in support of Ted Cruz as the candidate who will reform Washington and restore freedom and prosperity to the American people.
See excerpts below and read the full op-ed here.
My husband and I live in Virginia where we had a primary recently. While my own name was on the ballot, I checked the box for Ted Cruz.
Ted Cruz is a leader and a reformer who isn't afraid to ruffle feathers when he is fighting for the American people.
....
We need a constitutional conservative to unite our party. Ted has spent his life defending the Constitution. My father was a conservative judge on the very liberal ninth circuit. It takes someone of true principles and convictions like my dad and like Ted Cruz to stick to their guns. Ted has been fighting these fights for decades — whether it's for religious liberty, our right to keep and bear arms or American sovereignty. And he has won.
We need a leader and a reformer to challenge the system in Washington and fix the festering problems — whether it's our broken immigration system or the IRS. Throughout my career, I have learned that if you are a real leader, you absolutely must challenge the status quo. Sometimes you make enemies. It's the price of leadership. But it's also the way to deflate the bloated bureaucracy and return prosperity to the people.
That's exactly what Ted Cruz will do. He'll grow opportunities not for the government but for the hardworking men and women who are the heart and soul of this great nation. He will abolish the IRS, end the loopholes for Washington's special interests and set one low rate of 10% for all individuals. When April 15 comes, you can simply fill out your taxes on a postcard and carry on with your real work.
And rather than choking Americans' innovation and entrepreneurial spirit, Ted Cruz will clean out the excess spending and regulations in Washington, starting with Obamacare. He will audit the Fed and restore a stable dollar. When we do that, we will open up an economic landscape that welcomes new ideas, free enterprise and booming job creation.
....
Donald Trump can't reform the system; he's part of it. In fact, if we judge a leader on his record, we know what he'll do: use public power for private gain. We've had seven years of that, and we don't need a single year more.
If we want to defeat Donald Trump, we must defeat him by offering citizens conservative solutions to the problems in their lives.
Ted Cruz is the only candidate who can beat Donald Trump — and who can do so by laying out an optimistic vision of the future — one that recognizes the dignity, purpose, meaning of each person and enables them to reach their potential. That's the way to beat Donald, and it's the way to defeat Hillary come November.
....
It's time we take our party back, our government back, our country back. It is time to unite behind Ted Cruz. I ask you to join me so that together we reform Washington and restore prosperity to Americans across this country.
  