
    ESSEX JUNCTION, Vt. – Bernie Sanders won Tuesday's presidential primary in Vermont by a landslide and told 4,000 supporters chanting "Feel the Bern!" at a hometown victory party that he is in the race to stay through the Democratic National Convention in July.
"By the end of tonight we are going to win many hundreds of delegates," Sanders said after polls closed in Vermont and as results were still coming in from other states across the country. Altogether, 11 states were holding primaries or caucuses on Super Tuesday.
Sanders and his wife, Jane, cast their ballots at a Ward 7 polling place in Burlington, Vermont, the city where he first won elected office as mayor. "This is a campaign that is going to the Philadelphia convention in July," he told reporters as he left the polling place in a community center.
Earlier, a new poll conducted for CNN found Sanders has far better odds than Hillary Clinton of defeating Republican front-runner Donald Trump in this fall's general election. In a head-to-head matchup, Sanders beat Trump by 12 points. Clinton's advantage was only eight points. Sanders also beat U.S. Sen. Marco Rubio by 8 percentage points and U.S Sen. Ted Cruz by 17 points. Clinton loses to Rubio and Cruz in head-to-head matchups in the CNN/ORC poll.
"This latest poll confirms what other recent polls show. Bernie Sanders is the strongest general election candidate against the Republicans. Secretary Clinton does worse against Trump and actually loses to two of the top three Republican contenders," said Jeff Weaver, Sanders' campaign manager.






In another development showing Sanders broad grassroots support, his campaign announced after a midnight filing-period deadline that supporters had donated a record $42.7 million in February. Clinton's campaign manager conceded the senator from Vermont "substantially outraised" the former secretary of state during the month. He did not disclose, however, how much was raked in by her super PACs from millionaires and billionaires, Wall Street, Big Oil, the pharmaceutical industry and other powerful special interests.
  