
    The following listing includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the White House Press Office and not included elsewhere in this issue.
March 19
The President returned to the White House from Camp David, Md., where he had met during the day with his economic and energy advisers.
March 20
The President met at the White House with:
—David L. Aaron, Deputy Assistant for National Security Affairs;
—Danny C. Tate, Deputy Assistant for Congressional Liaison (Senate), and William H. Cable, Deputy Assistant for Congressional Liaison (House);
—the Democratic congressional leadership;
—James T. Mcintyre, Jr., Director of the Office of Management and Budget;
—Vice President Walter F. Mondale. The President transmitted to the Congress the initial "Report to the Congress on the Status of Health Information and Health Promotion," prepared by the Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare.
March 21
The President met at the White House with:
—Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs;
—Frank B. Moore, Assistant to the President for Congressional Liaison, Robert Thomson, Special Assistant for Congressional Liaison (Senate), Mr. Tate, and Mr. Cable;
—Joel W. (Jay) Solomon, Administrator of the General Services Administration;
—Stansfield Turner, Director of Central Intelligence, Hamilton Jordan, Assistant to the President, and Dr. Brzezinski.
March 22
The President met at the White House with:
—Secretary of the Treasury W. Michael Blumenthal, Lyle E. Gramley, member of the Council of Economic Advisers, Alfred E. Kahn, Advisor to the President on Inflation and Chairman of the Council on Wage and Price Stability, Barry P. Bosworth, Director of the Council on Wage and Price Stability, Stuart E. Eizenstat, Assistant to the President for Domestic Affairs and Policy, John N. Gentry, Deputy Adviser on Inflation and Counselor on Labor-Management Relations, and Mr. Mcintyre;
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Mr. Moore;
—Hilmar L. Solberg, president of Kiwanis International;
—Mrs. Carter, for lunch;
—Secretary of Labor Ray Marshall, Secretary of Commerce Juanita M. Kreps, Ambassador Robert S. Strauss, Special Representative for Trade Negotiations, a group of Senators and Congressmen, and representatives of the textile industry, to discuss the administration's textile program.
President Anwar al-Sadat of Egypt and Prime Minister Menahem Begin of Israel have accepted President Carter's invitation to sign the peace treaty between Egypt and Israel at the White House on March 26.
March 23
The President met at the White House with:
—Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance, .Secretary of Defense Harold Brown, Dr. Brzezinski, and Mr. Jordan;
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Mr. Moore.
The President participated in a briefing on the administration's programs and policies given for civic and community leaders from Massachusetts in Room 450 of the Old Executive Office Building.
The President has extended an invitation to Prime Minister Masayoshi Ohira of Japan for an official visit to the United States on May 2 to discuss bilateral and multilateral policies and economic issues of mutual concern.
  