
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
March 1
In the morning, the President and Hillary Clinton traveled to New York City.
March 2
In the morning, the President and Hillary Clinton returned to Washington, DC. In the evening, they attended a gala at Ford's Theatre.
The President declared a major disaster in Arkansas and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms and tornadoes March 1 and continuing.
March 3
In the afternoon, the President met with Senators Daniel Patrick Moynihan and Jesse Helms and Representatives Lee H. Hamilton and Larry Combest in the Oval Office to discuss Government classification issues.
March 4
In the morning, the President traveled to Little Rock, AR. In the afternoon, he traveled to Arkadelphia and College Station, AR. In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC.
The President announced his intention to appoint John R. Phillips to be a member of the President's Commission on White House Fellows.
The President declared a major disaster in Kentucky and ordered Federal aid to supplement Commonwealth and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms, tornadoes, and flooding beginning March 1 and continuing.
The President declared a major disaster in Ohio and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms and flooding beginning February 28 and continuing.
March 5
In the morning, the President had a telephone interview from the Oval Office with James A. Barnes of the National Journal.
March 6
In the morning, the President traveled to Lansing, MI. In the evening, he returned to Washington, DC.
The President declared a major disaster in Indiana and ordered Federal funds to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms and flooding February 28 and continuing.
March 7
The President announced his intention to appoint Dianne Welsh Bleck to be a member of the Board of Visitors to the U.S. Air Force Academy.
The White House announced that the Russia-U.S. summit in Helsinki, Finland, will begin with an informal dinner hosted by President Martti Ahtisaari at the Presidential Palace on March 19. The summit will continue with meetings between the President and President Boris Yeltsin of Russia on March 20. The President will depart for Copenhagen, Denmark, on the evening of March 20.
The President declared a major disaster in Tennessee and ordered Federal aid, including individual assistance, to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the areas affected by severe storms, flooding, and tornadoes that began on February 28.
The President declared a major disaster in West Virginia and ordered Federal aid, including individual assistance, to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the areas affected by severe storms, heavy rains, and high winds that began on February 28.
  