
    "While in Congress, Senator Santorum repeatedly joined Democrats in siding with labor unions over American employers and workers. He opposed right-to-work legislation and supported Big Labor's priorities on numerous occasions. Americans concerned about a healthy job market and economic growth will have to ask Senator Santorum if this was just another example of putting principles aside to 'take one for the team.'" —Andrea Saul, Romney Campaign Spokesperson
In 2012, Big Labor Has Put Its Money On The Line To Support Santorum's Candidacy:
AFSCME Made A Major Ad Buy In Ohio Before This Week's Primary And "Seems To Be Working Hard For A Santorum-Versus-Obama Faceoff in November." "[Santorum] got a major boost Monday in Ohio from the big-money intervention of an unlikely source: one of the country's premier unions. The real endorsement of the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees (AFSCME) will go to President Obama. But with a half-million-dollar ad purchase aimed at persuading voters in the Ohio Republican primary not to vote for Mitt Romney, disclosed Tuesday, the union seems to be working hard for a Santorum-versus-Obama faceoff in November." (Luke Rosiak, "Labor Unions Push For Santorum Win," The Washington Times, 2/28/12)
As He First Ran For The Senate, Santorum Boasted Of His Pro-Union Voting Record:
During His 1994 Senate Campaign, Santorum Attacked The AFL-CIO For Lying About His Voting Record And Said He Was More Pro-Labor Than Most Thought. "U.S. Senate candidate Rick Santorum says the Pennsylvania AFL-CIO has lied about his voting record in a mailing sent to about 10,000 of its members. ... Sen. Harris Wofford, D-Pa., got a 100 percent score. Santorum says the group lied about two of his votes - banning striker replacements and the North American Free Trade Agreement." (Nicole Weisensee, "Labor Rating Riles Santorum State Afl-Cio Lied About His Voting Record, He Charges," Philadelphia Daily News, 9/24/94)
Santorum's Campaign Argued That He Deserved A Higher Score. "Mihalke denied that Santorum had changed his position on banning striker replacements. He also said the fast track vote should be considered separately from the NAFTA vote. 'His voting record is his voting record, and it is completely different than what they are saying in this mailing,' Mihalke said." (Nicole Weisensee, "Labor Rating Riles Santorum State Afl-Cio Lied About His Voting Record, He Charges," Philadelphia Daily News, 9/24/94)
A Santorum Aide Called The AFL-CIO's Low Score "A Lie." "I think they should step forward and make it very clear to their members that this mailing is a ... lie." (Nicole Weisensee, "Labor Rating Riles Santorum State Afl-Cio Lied About His Voting Record, He Charges," Philadelphia Daily News, 9/24/94)
While In The Senate, Santorum Voted Against Right-To-Work Legislation, Defended The Davis-Bacon Act, And Repeatedly Sided With Democrats And Big Labor:
In 1996, Santorum Joined A Minority Of Senate Republicans In Opposing The Right-To-Work Act. "A bill to amend the National Labor Relations Act and the Railway Labor Act to repeal those provisions of Federal law that require employees to pay union dues or fees as a condition of employment, and for other purposes." (S. 1788, Vote #188: Cloture Motion Rejected 31-68, 7/10/96; Santorum Voted Nay)
Also In 1996, Santorum Was One Of 14 Senate Republicans Voting To Affirm That The Davis-Bacon Act Should Not Be Repealed. "To protect the incomes of construction workers and their families and to express the sense of the Senate that the Davis-Bacon Act should not be repealed." (S.Amdt. 4031 to S.Amdt. 4000 to S.Con.Res. 57, Vote #134: Motion To Table Failed 40-60: R 39-14; D 1-46, 5/22/96; Santorum Voted Nay)


    In 1999, Santorum Was One Of 15 Senate Republicans Voting To Reject An Amendment That Would Have Limited The Applicability Of The Davis-Bacon Act In Federal Disaster Areas. "Amendment No. 1844 ... At the appropriate place, insert the following: No funds appropriated under this Act may be used to enforce the provisions of the Act of March 3, 1931 (commonly known as the Davis-Bacon Act) ... in any area that has been declared a disaster area by the President under the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act." (S.Amdt. 1844 to S. 1650, Vote #320: Motion To Table Agreed To 59-40: R 15-40; D 44-0, 10/7/99; Santorum Voted Yea)
  

    The Heritage Foundation: Davis-Bacon Artificially Inflates The Cost Of Construction Projects, Adds Billions To The Deficit Each Year, And Should Be Repealed. "The Davis—Bacon Act (DBA) requires the government to pay construction wages that average 22 percent above market rates. This shields unions from competition on federal construction projects. It will also add $10.9 billion to the deficit in 2011. Given that the federal government is already running historic and unsustainable deficits, federal policy should not unnecessarily inflate the cost of federal construction projects. Congress should repeal the DBA." (James Sherk, "Repealing the Davis-Bacon Act Would Save Taxpayers $10.9 Billion," The Heritage Foundation, 2/4/11)
  

In 1993, Santorum Sided With The Clinton Administration And Congressional Democrats In Voting To Prohibit Employers From Hiring Permanent Replacements For Striking Workers. Santorum, along with a small minority of Republicans in the House of Representatives, voted for the Cesar Chavez Workplace Fairness Act, which would have prohibited employers from hiring permanent replacements when employees go on strike. (H.R. 5, Vote #224: Passed 239-190: R 17-157; D 221-33; I 1-0, 6/15/93; Santorum Voted Yea)


    Among The Bill's Co-Sponsors Were Reps. Nancy Pelosi (D-CA), Dick Gephardt (D-MO), Charles Schumer (D-NY), And Bernie Sanders (I-VT). (Library of Congress Website, http://thomas.loc.gov, 1/4/12)
  
"Santorum Broke Ranks With Fellow GOP Members" To Support The Legislation. "Generally viewed as conservative ... Santorum broke ranks with fellow GOP members by backing a federal law to prohibit the hiring of permanent replacements for striking workers." (Dennis Roddy, "Santorum Starts Drive For Senate," Pittsburgh Post-Gazette, 10/2/93)
For Organized Labor, The Bill Was "The Defining Labor Issue Of The Young Clinton Presidency, As Important ... As The Air Traffic Controllers Strike Was In The Early Reagan Years." "Organized labor, or what is left of it, has high hopes for the Clinton Presidency. But so far the Administration has put on the back burner all the proposals that might give labor more power, except for one: a bill that would prohibit management from replacing strikers permanently with newly hired workers. And now that bill has become the defining labor issue of the young Clinton Presidency, as important today as the air traffic controllers strike was in the early Reagan years." (Louis Uchitelle, "Labor Has A Big Job For Its New Friend Clinton," The New York Times, 6/27/93)
The Chamber Of Commerce And National Association Of Manufacturers Lobbied Against The Bill. "Organized labor says passage of the bill, called the Cesar Chavez Workplace Fairness Act, is needed to reverse the sharp decline in membership and influence that unions experienced in the 1980's. ... Business groups like the United States Chamber of Commerce and the National Association of Manufacturers are lobbying against the measure, arguing that it would unwisely tilt the balance of power in contract negotiations to the unions' favor." (Clifford Kraus, "House Passes Bill To Ban Replacement Of Strikers," The New York Times, 6/16/93)

In 1992, Santorum Sided With Labor Unions Against Congressional Republicans And Then-President Bush In Voting Against Binding Arbitration To End A Railroad Labor Dispute. "Provides for settlement of certain unresolved railroad labor-management disputes. Sets forth conditions which shall apply during the resolution of such disputes. Requires all carriers and all employees affected by such unresolved disputes ... to take all necessary steps to restore or preserve the conditions that existed before June 24, 1992 (when a strike and lockouts caused a railroad stoppage)." (H.J. Res 517, Vote #236: Passed 248-140: R 136-15; D 112-124; I 0-1, 6/25/92; Santorum Voted Nay)

Congress Approved The Measure Amid Conflict That Had Already Shut Down The Country's Freight Rail Lines And Threatened To Shut Down Passenger Rail Service. "Congress approved binding arbitration late Thursday night to settle the labor dispute that shut down the nation's freight lines and threatened commuter rail service, mainly in the Northeast. The legislation was rushed early today to the President, who signed it immediately. ... President Bush's signature insured that there would be no further disruption of freight lines as well as Amtrak, the Federally subsidized passenger carrier." (Roberto Suro, "Congress Forces End To Shutdown Of Train Service," The New York Times, 6/26/92)
"In Congress The Most Vocal Opposition To The Legislation Came From Democrats, Many Of Whom Rely On Political Support From Unions." (Roberto Suro, "Congress Forces End To Shutdown Of Train Service," The New York Times, 6/26/92)
Organized Labor Unions Engaged In "Vigorous Lobbying" Against The Bill. "Pressure to take some kind of action mounted in Congress all day Thursday despite vigorous lobbying [by] the unions to keep Congress from intervening. In addition to reports of the shutdown's effect on trade and manufacturing, the lawmakers faced the prospect that it might spread to commuter services along the heavily traveled Northeast corridor from Boston to Washington by 12:01 A.M. today." (Roberto Suro, "Congress Forces End To Shutdown Of Train Service," The New York Times, 6/26/92)

  