
    DETROIT - Detroit Action, a grassroots organization that fights for the equity and equality of black and brown Michiganders, on Friday endorsed Sen. Bernie Sanders for president. In their first-ever endorsement in a presidential primary, Detroit Action highlighted Sen. Sanders' career of standing in solidarity with working class communities of color.
"The most important action that we can take right now, is doing whatever it takes to ensure that we elect someone with whom we can truly work to dismantle this oppressive administration," said Executive Director of Detroit Action, Branden Snyder. "We believe that a vote for Senator Sanders is a strategic intervention into the Democratic primary system and against neoliberal economic policy and the political status quo that candidates like former Vice President Joe Biden represent. While we believe Senator Sanders would move us much closer to a country where everyone has the freedom to thrive, our endorsement recognizes that no candidate is perfect and that we must continue to hold them accountable. It is a decision to help our communities interpret the choices before them and to advance our platform for justice."
"Detroit Action knows what it takes to organize and turn out the vote," said Bernie 2020 Michigan State Coordinator Michael Fasullo. "Together, we're going to continue our work of reaching out, lifting up and empowering black and brown working class Michiganders across the state."
Detroit Action began their member-led presidential primary endorsement process in February, with the goal of not supporting any candidates whose policy positions have directly or indirectly lead to the disenfranchisement of black and brown people. Sen. Sanders was selected due to his support of policies detailed in Detroit Action's Agenda For A New Economy, including Medicare for All, criminal justice reform and housing for all.
Detroit Action will be reaching out to 40,000 Detroiters in the lead up to the Michigan primary to elevate the experiences of working class black and brown voters. In the lead up to November, Detroit Actionplan to knock on close to 275,000 doors of black and brown working class families in Metro Detroit to learn about the issues they care about and mobilize them into action.
Sen. Sanders has also welcomed support in Michigan from U.S. Representative Rashida Tlaib, Detroit City Council President Pro Tempore Mary Sheffield, DNC Member Michelle Deatrick, School Board Trustee of Kenowa Hills in Grand Rapids Eric-John Szczepaniak, Dr. Abdul El-Sayed, State Representative (District 15) Abdullah Hammoud, Mayor Marcus Muhammad of Benton Harbor, State Representative (District 4) Isaac Robinson of Detroit, State Representative (District 53) Yousef Rabhi of Ann Arbor, Council Member (Ward 5) Ali Ramlawi of Ann Arbor, and Council Member Dave Abdallah of Dearborn Heights, as well as The Young Democrats of Michigan and the Progressive Caucus of the Michigan Democratic Party.
  