
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to designate one individual, appoint one individual and nominate five individuals to serve in his administration:
The President intends to designate Nils J. Diaz of Florida, to be Chairman of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC). Dr. Diaz currently serves as a member of the NRC. Prior to his appointment as a member of the Commission, Dr. Diaz was Professor of Nuclear Engineering Sciences at the University of Florida, Director of the Innovative Nuclear Space Power Institute (INSPI) and President and Principal Engineer of Florida Nuclear Associates, Inc. Dr. Diaz holds a bachelor's degree in Mechanical Engineering from the University of Villanova, Havana, a master's degree in Nuclear Engineering and a Ph.D. in Nuclear Engineering sciences from the University of Florida.
The President intends to appoint Terri Lacy of Texas, to be a Member of the Federal Salary Council (Labor Relations and Pay Policy) and upon appointment designate Chairman. Ms. Lacy currently serves as partner at Andrews & Kurth, L.L.P in Houston. She is a graduate of Southern Methodist University and earned her law degree from Southern Methodist University Law School.
The President intends to nominate Steven A. Browning of Texas, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Malawi. A career member of the Senior Foreign Service, Mr. Browning currently serves as Diplomat-in-Residence at the Center for International Studies at the University of Southern California. He previously served as Dean of the School of Professional and Area Studies at the National Foreign Affairs Training Center. His previous overseas assignments include Deputy Chief of Mission in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania and Administrative and General Services Officer in Colombo, Sri Lanka. He also served as Administrative Officer in Alexandria, Egypt as well as a General Services Officer in Nairobi, Kenya. Earlier, he served as Consular Officer in Santo Domingo. He earned his bachelor's degree from Baylor University and his M.ED for the University of Houston.
The President intends to nominate Ronald Schlicher of Tennessee, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Tunisia. Mr. Schlicher currently serves as the Director of the Iraqi Task Force. He previously served as the Chief of Mission and Consul General of the United States in Jerusalem. Prior to this assignment, he was the Director of the State Department's Office of Egyptian and North African Affairs. His previous overseas assignments include Consular Officer in Dhahran, Saudi Arabia and as Consular Officer in Damascus, Syria. He also served as Consul General in Alexandria, Egypt and as Deputy Chief of Mission in Beirut, Lebanon. He received both his bachelor's degree and his law degree from the University of Tennessee.
The President intends to nominate Stephen M. Young of New Hampshire, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Kyrgyz Republic. A career member of the Senior Foreign Service, Dr. Young currently serves as the Director of the Office of Chinese and Mongolian Affairs. He previously served as the Director of the Office of Pakistan, Afghanistan, and Bangladesh Affairs. Prior to this assignment, he was the Deputy Director of the American Institute in Taiwan. Earlier in his career, he served as Director of the Office of Caucasus and Central Asian Affairs and as Desk Officer on the Russian Desk. His previous overseas assignments include Beijing, Moscow and Taipei. Dr. Young is a graduate of Wesleyan University. He went on to earn his master's degree and his Ph.D. from the University of Chicago.
The President intends to nominate Josette Sheeran Shiner of Virginia, to be Deputy United States Trade Representative. Ms. Shiner currently serves as Associate U.S. Trade Representative for Policy and Communications. Prior to joining USTR, she served as Managing Director of Starpoint Solutions, a Wall Street technology firm. Earlier in her career, she served as President and CEO of Empower America and as managing editor of The Washington Times. Ms. Shiner is a graduate of the University of Colorado.
The President intends to nominate Teresa M. Ressel of Virginia, to be Assistant Secretary of the Treasury (Management) and designate Acting Chief Financial Officer, and upon confirmation designate Chief Financial Officer, Department of the Treasury. Ms. Ressel currently serves as Acting Assistant Secretary for Management of the Department of the Treasury. She previously served as Deputy Assistant Secretary for Strategy and Finance, in the Office of Management, Department of Treasury. Earlier in her career, she served as Vice President and Chief Compliance Officer for Kaiser Foundation Hospitals, Inc. and for Kaiser Foundation Health Plan, Inc. Ms. Ressel earned her bachelor's and her master's degrees from the University of Delaware. She received her M.B.A. from Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute.
  