
    Strong in Pennsylvania: A new Rasmussen poll has Hillary up 15 over Sen. Obama (52-37). Hillary's lead increased by 11 since Rasmussen's late February poll (46-42).
$5 Million: Hillary's supporters have contributed more than $5 million online since the polls closed on Tuesday night.
Making News: After losing Ohio, Texas, and Rhode Island, Sen. Obama's campaign is attacking Hillary. Sen. Obama's foreign policy advisor attacked Hillary as a "monster." In December, Sen. Obama said he would remove people who "tear people down personally."
Previewing Today: Hillary holds town halls in Hattiesburg, Mississippi and Cheyenne and Casper, Wyoming... President Bill Clinton attends an event in Media, Pennsylvania and hosts a fish fry in Tupelo, Mississippi.
If You Read One Thing Today: "Polls — and Hillary Clinton's big victory in Ohio — suggest that if the Democrats want to win this year, they have to focus on economic anxiety." Read more.
Active in Mississippi: Yesterday in Canton, Hillary addressed "thousands of fired-up Democrats," "many donning Clinton paraphernalia and vowing their support." ... "She entered to chants of 'Hillary'" and gave a speech the crowd "peppered often with applause." ... The campaign announced that State Rep. George Flaggs and former State Sen. Gloria Williamson will co-chair Hillary's efforts in the Magnolia State.
Real Solutions: Yesterday, Hillary met with retired admirals, generals, and other senior officials and announced her plan to address the forgotten front line in Afghanistan. Read more.
Excited in Wyoming: "More than 2,000 people" turned out yesterday to hear President Bill Clinton in Riverton, where he "drew loud, frequent applause." ... "More than 1,200 people showed up" in Laramie. "The heads of a few of the people turned away appeared in the windows, apparently hoping for a glimpse of the former president." ... "More than 1,000 excited Democrats" came to hear President Clinton in Rock Springs. "The crowd's turnout and enthusiasm was huge." ... "More then 200 students" showed up to hear Chelsea at Casper College. "Julie Briggs, a Hillary for President pin on her blouse... went to the cafeteria more than an hour early to get a good place."
Facts are Facts: Sen. Obama's campaign is recycling negative attacks against Hillary in Mississippi and distorting her record on foreign policy. Get the facts.
In Case You Missed It: "Barack Obama's name was mentioned twice during [the] defense attorney['s] opening statement" in the political corruption trial of Antoin "Tony" Rezko, Sen. Obama's "political patron" and friend of 17 years.
  