
    Today, former Washington Governor Chris Gregoire joined elected officials and community leaders in endorsing Joe Biden for President.
"Joe Biden will unite and heal our country. He is a leader who has dedicated his life to fighting for working families and I know on day one he'll get our country back on track," said Governor Chris Gregoire. "From helping pass the Affordable Care Act and the Recovery and Reinvestment Act, to beating the NRA twice and helping to negotiate the Paris Climate Accords — Joe's record speaks for itself. Joe will not only defeat Donald Trump but help Democrats up and down the ballot in expanding our majority in the House and winning the U.S. Senate. I'm proud to endorse him."
Today's endorsements also include:

Norm Dicks, Former U.S. Congressman
Victoria Woodards, Mayor of Tacoma
Tim Burgess, Former Mayor of Seattle
Norm Rice, Former Mayor of Seattle
Suzan Levine, Former United States Ambassador to Switzerland and Liechtenstein
Jamie Pedersen, Washington State Senator
David Frockt, Washington State Senator
Lisa Wellman, Washington State Senator
Reuven Carlyle, Washington State Senator
Eric Pettigrew, Washington State Representative
Larry Springer, Washington State Representative
Cindy Ryu, Washington State Representative
Jake Fey, Washington State Representative
Steve Bergquist, Washington State Representative
Steve Tharinger, Washington State Representative
Ruth Kagi, Former Washington State Representative
Penny Sweet, Mayor of Kirkland
Jennifer Gregerson, Mayor of Mukilteo
Debora Juarez, Seattle City Councilmember
Mike Dalesandro, Battle Ground City Councilmember
Karl de Jong, Sedro-Woolley City Councilmember
Maria Rosas, Union Gap School Board Member
Paul Berendt, Former Democratic State Party Chair
Martha Choe, Former Seattle City Councilmember
Mike Grady, Former Mercer Island City Councilmember
Julie Johnson, Lummi Tribal Leader

Today's endorsements build on the endorsement of former Washington Governor, Secretary of Commerce, and U.S. Ambassador to China, Gary Locke, State Senator Marko Liias as well as 15 other Washington leaders from across the state. Biden for President has announced more than 1,500 endorsements from national, state and local leaders, including current and former U.S. senators and representatives, governors, state elected officials, and community leaders.
  