
    "Any regulation that is outdated, unnecessary, bad for workers, or contrary to the national interest will be scrapped." – Donald J. Trump
YEARS OF GOVERNMENT OVERREACH: President Donald J. Trump has inherited the bloated regulatory regime of the past Administration.

According to the American Action Forum, the regulations from the Obama Administration cost United States taxpayers a total of $873 billion.

The Obama Administration issued 3,037 finalized regulations.



GETTING GOVERNMENT OUT OF THE WAY: Today, President Trump signed legislation to help eliminate unnecessary, harmful, and job-killing regulations.

Earlier today, President Trump signed four bills under the Congressional Review Act (CRA), in one of the few times the CRA has been used to cancel Federal regulations.
House Joint Resolution 37 will roll back the "blacklisting" rule that empowers big law firms to get rich by suing American companies and workers who contract with the Federal Government.
House Joint Resolution 44 removes the Bureau of Land Management's "Planning 2.0" rule to prevent further centralization of Federal land management decisions at the expense of local citizens.
House Joint Resolutions 57 and 58 eliminate layers of bureaucracy that could have cost State and local school systems millions of dollars, while encouraging freedom and innovation in our schools.

CUTTING RED TAPE ACROSS THE GOVERNMENT: President Trump has signed Executive Orders and legislation to cut regulations that get in the way of Americans.

President Trump has required that for every new Federal regulation, two existing regulations be eliminated.
President Trump ordered agencies to create Regulatory Reform Task Forces to identify costly and unnecessary regulations.
President Trump signed an Executive Order instructing Federal agencies to minimize the burden of the Affordable Care Act on Americans while he works to repeal and replace it.
President Trump signed legislation, House Joint Resolution 38, to prevent the burdensome "Stream Protection Rule" from causing further harm to the coal industry.
President Trump signed legislation, House Joint Resolution 41, to eliminate a costly regulation that threatened to put American mining and energy companies and their employees at an unfair disadvantage.
President Trump directed the Secretary of Commerce to develop a plan to streamline Federal permitting processes for domestic manufacturers.
President Trump signed an Executive Order expediting the environmental review and approval processes for domestic infrastructure projects.
President Trump directed the Secretary of the Treasury to conduct a full review of the burdensome regulations required by the Dodd-Frank Act.
President Trump ordered a re-examination of the Department of Labor's "fiduciary rule," to make certain that it does not harm Americans as they save for retirement.

KEEPING HIS PROMISES TO THE AMERICAN PEOPLE: President Donald J. Trump has promised the country he would cut needless regulation.

While campaigning for President, Donald Trump promised to cut regulations massively.
While campaigning for President, Donald Trump vowed to cut any regulation that is outdated, unnecessary, bad for workers, or contrary to the national interest.

  