
    WASHINGTON, DC – Today, President Barack Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key Administration posts:

Anne Hall – Ambassador to the Republic of Lithuania, Department of State
James X. Dempsey – Member, Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board
Doug Wilson – Member, United States Advisory Commission on Public Diplomacy 
Almo J. Carter – Commissioner, United States Parole Commission
Larry T. Glenn – Commissioner, United States Parole Commission

President Obama also announced his intent to appoint the following individuals to key Administration posts:

Ilona R. Cohen – Member, Council of the Administrative Conference of the United States
Geovette E. Washington – Member, Council of the Administrative Conference of the United States

President Obama said, "I am confident that these experienced and hardworking individuals will help us tackle the important challenges facing America, and I am grateful for their service. I look forward to working with them."
President Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key Administration posts:
Anne Hall, Nominee for Ambassador to the Republic of Lithuania, Department of State
Anne Hall, a career member of the Foreign Service, Class of Minister-Counselor, is Acting Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary in the Bureau of Oceans and International Environmental and Scientific Affairs at the Department of State, a position she has held since 2014. Previously, she served as Director of the Department's Office of Central European Affairs in the Bureau of European and Eurasian Affairs from 2013 to 2014. She served as Deputy Chief of Mission at the U.S. Embassy in Vilnius, Lithuania from 2010 to 2013. Prior to that, Ms. Hall served as Principal Officer and Consul General at the U.S. Consulate General in Krakow, Poland from 2006 to 2009, and as Senior Cyprus Desk Officer in the Bureau of European and Eurasian Affairs, Office of Southern European Affairs from 2003 to 2005. Before that, she served in the Office of Nordic and Baltic Affairs as Norway and Denmark Desk Officer from 2001 to 2003, and as Special Assistant to the Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary for Consular Affairs from 2000 to 2001. Since joining the Foreign Service in 1987, Ms. Hall has held positions at posts in China, Colombia, and Brazil. Ms. Hall received a B.A. from the University of Maine and an M.A. and M.P.Aff. from the University of Texas at Austin.
James X. Dempsey, Nominee for Member, Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board
James X. Dempsey is currently a Member of the Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board, a position he has held since 2012. He is also Executive Director of the Berkeley Center for Law & Technology at the University of California Berkeley School of Law, a position he has held since 2015. From 1997 to 2014, Mr. Dempsey served in multiple position at the Center for Democracy & Technology (CDT), a non-profit public policy organization focused on privacy, national security, government surveillance, and other issues affecting the future of the Internet. Mr. Dempsey joined CDT in 1997, holding senior roles in the organization, including Executive Director from 2003 to 2005 and head of CDT's West Coast office in San Francisco, CA. Prior to joining CDT, he served as Deputy Director of the non-profit Center for National Security Studies and Special Counsel to the National Security Archive. From 1985 to 1995, Mr. Dempsey was Assistant Counsel to the House Judiciary Committee's Subcommittee on Civil and Constitutional Rights. From 1980 to 1984, he was an associate at Arnold & Porter, LLP. Mr. Dempsey clerked for Judge Robert Braucher of the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court. He has been a member of several bodies addressing privacy and national security issues, including the Markle Foundation Task Force on National Security in the Information Age, the Bill of Rights Defense Committee advisory board, the Industry Advisory Board for the National Counter-Terrorism Center, and the Transportation Security Administration's Secure Flight Working Group among others. He received holds a B.A. from Yale University and a J.D. from Harvard Law School.
Doug Wilson, Nominee for Member, United States Advisory Commission on Public Diplomacy
Doug Wilson is Senior Fellow and Chairman of the Board of Advisors at the Truman National Security Project/Center for National Policy, positions he has held since 2013. He also serves on the boards of Blue Star Families and America Abroad Media, and is Co-Founder of the national "Vets Community Connections" initiative. Mr. Wilson most recently served as Assistant Secretary of Defense for Public Affairs at the Department of Defense from 2010 to 2012 and was Executive Vice President for Policy of the Howard Gilman Foundation in New York City in 2009. Before that, he was Founding Chair of the Harvard Public Diplomacy Collaborative in 2009, Vice President of The Cohen Group from 2002 to 2005, and Vice President of Strategic Development for Business Executives for National Security from 2001 to 2002. He served at the Department of Defense as Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Public Affairs from 2000 to 2001 and as Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense from 1997 to 1999. He was Director of the Office of Congressional and Intergovernmental Affairs at the U.S. Information Agency from 1993 to 1996. Earlier in his career, he served as Arizona Chief of Trade and Protocol for the Phoenix Sister Cities Commission and as Senior Foreign Policy Advisor in the Office of Senator Gary Hart in Denver, Colorado. He was a Foreign Service Information Officer with the U.S. Information Agency for eight years, serving in Naples, Rome, and London, where he was the First Secretary for Press and Information during the Iran hostage crisis. He is a past board member of the National Security Network and Third Way. Mr. Wilson is a three-time recipient of the Distinguished Public Service Award, the Pentagon's highest civilian honor. Mr. Wilson received a B.A. from Stanford University and an M.A. from the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts University.
Almo J. Carter, Nominee for Commissioner, United States Parole Commission
Almo J. Carter serves as a Staff Attorney for the Public Defender Service for the District of Columbia, a position she has held since 1999. From 1998 to 1999, Ms. Carter served as a law clerk for District of Columbia Superior Court Associate Judge Zinora Mitchell-Rankin. From 1992 to 1995, she was Associate Director of the Urban Family Institute, an organization that produces high-impact programmatic initiatives for children. Prior to that, Ms. Carter was a Senior Consultant with Booz Allen from 1991 to 1992. From 1989 to 1991, she was a Senior Management Analyst for Technology Management Corporation, and from 1984 to 1988, Ms. Carter served as a Management Consultant for Ernst & Young. Ms. Carter received a B.A. from the University of Maryland, College Park and a J.D. from Howard University School of Law.
Larry T. Glenn, Nominee for Commissioner, United States Parole Commission
Larry T. Glenn serves as Chief United Sates Probation Officer for the District of the Virgin Islands, a position he has held since 2014. From 2008 to 2014, Mr. Glenn served as a Hearing Examiner for the United States Parole Commission. From 1999 to 2008, he was Supervising United States Probation Officer for the District of the Virgin Islands. Prior to that, he served as a United States Probation Officer for the Eastern District of Virginia from 1997 to 1999 and for the Eastern District of Michigan from 1990 to 1997. Mr. Glenn received a B.S. from Saint Paul's College.
President Obama announced his intent to appoint the following individuals to key Administration posts:
Ilona R. Cohen, Appointee for Member, Council of the Administrative Conference of the United States
Ilona R. Cohen is General Counsel at the Office of Management and Budget, a position she has held since September 2015. Ms. Cohen previously served as Special Assistant to the President and Associate Counsel from 2013 to 2015. Before joining the White House, Ms. Cohen served as Assistant General Counsel for the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. From 2007 to 2012, Ms. Cohen served as Majority Counsel for the Senate Armed Services Committee, and prior to that as an Associate at Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale and Dorr LLP (WilmerHale) from 2004 to 2007. Ms. Cohen received a B.A. and J.D. from the University of Michigan.
Geovette E. Washington, Appointee for Member, Council of the Administrative Conference of the United States
Geovette E. Washington is the Senior Vice Chancellor and Chief Legal Officer of the University of Pittsburgh, a position she has held since August 2015. Prior to this role, Ms. Washington served as General Counsel for the Office of Management and Budget from 2013 to 2015. Ms. Washington was first appointed by the President as a Member to the Administrative Conference of the United States in 2013. From 2010 to 2013, Ms. Washington was Deputy General Counsel for the Department of Commerce. Prior to this, she worked at Lewis Baach PLLC (formerly Baach Robinson and Lewis PLLC), as partner from 2000 to 2010 and as an associate from 1996 to 1999. Ms. Washington was a Special Assistant to the Assistant Attorney General in the Office of Legal Counsel at the Department of Justice from 1993 to 1996 and a law clerk for the Honorable Aubrey E. Robinson, Jr. of the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia from 1992 to 1993. Ms. Washington received a B.A. from Wesleyan College in Macon, Georgia and a J.D. from the Duke University School of Law.
  