
    Dear Mr. Speaker: (Dear Mr. Chairman.)
In accordance with the provisions of Public Law 95-384, I am submitting the following report on progress made during the past 60 days toward the conclusion of a negotiated solution of the Cyprus problem.
Unfortunately, the intercommunal talks remain in recess. I am, however, hopeful that the recent intensive effort of the Secretary General of the United Nations will bring both parties on Cyprus back to the negotiating table. Through his representatives on Cyprus, Secretary General Waldheim has suggested a specific format under which both sides might be able to resume talks. While there has not yet been agreement on the suggested format, I believe the Secretary General has proposed a reasonable program that will enable the two sides to begin to discuss their concerns and to face the issues of substance that divide the island.
The Foreign Minister of Cyprus was in Washington, February 5-7 for meetings with Secretary Vance and other State Department officials. In these discussions, we made clear our continuing support for Secretary General Waldheim's efforts to resume the intercommunal talks. We told the Foreign Minister that we believe both sides to the Cyprus dispute should concentrate on issues where there is some measure of agreement and begin to build a settlement on that common ground.
For years, the people of Cyprus have been unable to reach a political accommodation that satisfies both communities. The Secretary General of the United Nations is offering them a way to sit down together and search for understanding. Achieving a settlement at the negotiating table will not be easy. But achieving a settlement will be impossible unless both sides are willing to engage in meaningful discussions. The United States is firmly committed to the early resumption of the intercommunal talks and will continue to support the Secretary General's efforts. We are convinced that only face-to-face negotiations between the communities will lead to a just and lasting peace.
Sincerely,
JIMMY CARTER
  