
    Today, the President and First Lady are pleased to announce the schedule for the following springtime events: Spring Garden Tours and the White House Easter Egg Roll.
SPRING GARDEN TOURS
The President and First Lady will continue the annual tradition of opening the White House gardens and South Grounds to members of the public for Spring Garden Tours. This season's tour weekend is scheduled for Saturday, April 1st and Sunday, April 2nd between the hours of 10:00 AM ET to 4:30 PM ET.
These tours are free and open to the public; however, a daily timed ticket is required for all attendees, including small children. The National Park Service (NPS) will distribute free, daily timed tickets at a tent stationed outside the White House Visitor Center (1450 Pennsylvania Avenue NW) each tour day beginning at 8:30 AM ET while supplies last. The Spring Garden Tour entry point for all guests will be located on 15th Street NW between E Street NW and Constitution Avenue NW. Advance reservations are not available.
For media interested in a press preview opportunity ahead of the Spring Garden Tours, RSVP HERE. Additional details to follow.
WHITE HOUSE EASTER EGG ROLL
The White House Easter Egg Roll will take place on the South Lawn on Easter Monday, April 10th, continuing one of the oldest traditions in White House history.
Additional information on this year's theme, activities, and media coverage opportunities will be released in the coming days. For interested media, RSVP HERE.
Online Ticket LotteryWhite House Easter Egg Roll tickets are free to the public and may be requested through an online public lottery starting on Thursday, March 16th at 10:00 AM ET, and closing on Thursday, March 23rd, at 3:00 PM ET. Entering the public lottery is free of charge, and randomly selected winners will be notified via email on or after Monday, March 27th. Tickets are not for sale or resale. The annual event is geared toward children 12 years of age and younger. Those interested in attending may enter the PUBLIC LOTTERY HERE, starting on Thursday, March 16th at 10:00 AM ET.
Volunteer OpportunitiesAs in past years, the White House will welcome volunteers interested in supporting the White House Easter Egg Roll through an online application. All volunteers must be 18 years of age or older. Those interested in applying to volunteer may REGISTER HERE. The deadline to submit a White House Easter Egg Roll Volunteer application is Thursday, March 23rd at 5:00 PM ET.
  