
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate four individuals, appoint sixteen individuals and upon appointment, designate one individual to serve in his Administration:
The President intends to nominate Ronald S. Cooper, of Virginia, to be General Counsel of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, for a four-year term. Mr. Cooper is currently a Partner at Steptoe & Johnson, LLP. He has been an Attorney at the firm for over 30 years and has concentrated his practice on employment litigation. He serves as Employer Co-Chair of the International Labor Law Committee of the American Bar Association Section of Labor and Employment Law. Mr. Cooper has also held leadership positions in the Section's Equal Employment Opportunity Committee. He received his bachelor's degree and JD from the University of Georgia.
The President intends to nominate Harry R. Hoglander, of Massachusetts, to be a Member of the National Mediation Board, for the remainder of a three-year term expiring July 1, 2008. Mr. Hoglander currently serves as a Member of the National Mediation Board, where he served one year as Chairman. Prior to this, he served as Legislative Assistant for Congressman John Tierney of Massachusetts. Earlier in his career, he was a Captain for Trans World Airline in his 28-year career with TWA. Mr. Hoglander served in the United States Air Force, retiring as Lieutenant Colonel. He received his bachelor's degree from the Florida State University and his JD from Suffolk University.
The President intends to nominate Molly A. O'Neill, of Virginia, to be Assistant Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency for Environmental Information. Ms. O'Neill currently serves as State Director for the National Environmental Information Exchange Network at the Environmental Council of the States. Prior to this, she served as Principal of the Environmental Systems Group at American Management Systems, Inc. Earlier in her career, she served as Manager of the State Environmental Group at A.T. Kearney, Inc. Ms. O'Neill received her bachelor's degree from Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University.
The President intends to nominate Peter W. Tredick, of California, to be a Member of the National Mediation Board, for the remainder of a three-year term expiring July 1, 2007. Mr. Tredick currently serves as Chairman of the Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel. Prior to this, he served Hogan & Hartson, LLP for over 30 years as Associate, Partner and Of-Counsel. During that time, Mr. Tredick was the Director of the firm's Labor and Employment Practice Group for over 10 years. He received his bachelor's degree from Princeton University and his JD from Harvard Law School.
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation, for the remainder of a four-year term expiring June 10, 2009:


  John Nau, of Texas (General Public), and designate Chairman upon appointment
  D. Franklin Arey, III, of Arkansas (General Public)
  Mayor Alan Autry, of California
  Governor Matt Blunt, of Missouri

The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the Board of Directors of the Vietnam Education Foundation, for three-year terms beginning April 18, 2006:


  Marilyn Castor Machon Pattillo, of Texas
  Frank Jao, of California

The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the President's Committee for People with Intellectual Disabilities:


  Ricardo Barraza, Jr., of Texas, for the remainder of a two-year term expiring May 11, 2007
  Herbert Bartlett, of Washington, for the remainder of a two-year term expiring May 11, 2007
  Sharman Word Dennis, of the District of Columbia, for the remainder of a two-year term expiring May 11, 2007
  Carmela Vargas Gonzales, of New Mexico, for the remainder of a two-year term expiring May 11, 2007
  Harris N. Hollin, of Florida, for the remainder of a two-year term expiring May 11, 2007
  Casey Patrick O'Halloran, of Florida, for the remainder of a two-year term expiring May 11, 2007
  Thomas J. Reilly, of Pennsylvania, for the remainder of a two-year term expiring May 11, 2007
  Steven C. Rhatigan, of Texas, for the remainder of a two-year term expiring May 11, 2007
  Neil Romano, of Maryland, for the remainder of a two-year term expiring May 11, 2007
  Dallas Rob Sweezy, of Virginia, for the remainder of a two-year term expiring May 11, 2006

  