
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
March 19
In the morning, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister John Major of the United Kingdom.
March 20
In an afternoon ceremony in the Oval Office, the President received diplomatic credentials from the following Ambassadors: Abdulla Bin Mohamed Al-Dhahab of Oman; Jorge G. Prieto of Paraguay; Franklin Sonn of South Africa; Mahamat Saleh Ahmat of Chad; Jayantha C. B Dhanapala of Sri Lanka; Kun Woo Park of South Korea; Courtney N.M. Blackman of Barbados; Corentino Virgillio Santos of Cape Verde; Severin Ntahomvukiye of Burundi; Jesus Silva Herzog of the United Mexican States; Hadj Osmane Bencherif of Algeria; Willie Chokani of Malawi; Basudev Prasad Dhungana of Nepal.
The President announced that he will lead a National Rural Conference on the future of America's rural communities on April 25 in Ames, Iowa.
The President announced his intention to nominate Jerome A. Stricker to be a member of the Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board.
The White House announced the President will visit Russia and Ukraine on May 9-11 to attend ceremonies marking the 50th anniversary of V-E Day and for bilateral discussions with President Boris Yeltsin of Russia and President Leonid Kuchma of Ukraine.
The White House announced the President has invited Prime Minister John Major of the United Kingdom to make an official working visit to Washington, DC, on April 3-4.
March 21
The President announced his intention to appoint Peter Chase Neumann as a member of the Tahoe Regional Planning Agency.
The President announced his intention to appoint Joseph T. Gorman and Richard Notebaert to be members of the President's Export Council.
The President announced his intention to appoint the following individuals to be members of the National Selective Service Appeals Board:
—Betsy Levine;
—Leo M. Romero;
—James Roosevelt, Jr.;
—Jan Craig Scruggs;
—Barbara W. White.
March 22
The President announced his intention to appoint Anne-Lee Verville to the National Skill Standards Board.
The President announced his intention to appoint Kitty Dukakis to the U.S. Holocaust Memorial Council.
The President announced the appointment of Secretary of Defense William J. Perry as the Chairman of the 1995 Interagency Savings Bonds Committee.
The White House announced the President has made available $57.8 million in emergency funding to provide assistance to Georgia and Florida in recovering from the damage caused by Tropical Storm Alberto and subsequent flooding.
March 23
The White House announced the appointment of William C. Danvers as Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for Legislative Affairs at the National Security Council.
The President announced his intention to appoint Walter Parker as the academic representative to the Arctic Research Commission.
The President announced his intention to appoint the following individuals to be members of the Advisory Committee on the Arts of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts:
—Patricia Staunton Etchart;
—Meghan Zanolli Holbrook;
—John P. Manning;
—Cherri D. Roden;
—Ann M. DeLaney;
—Kandy Stroud.
March 24
In the morning, the President went to the National Naval Medical Center in Bethesda, MD, where he underwent a routine physical examination.
The President announced his intention to appoint Jimmie Lou Fisher to be a public member of the Rural Telephone Bank Board.
  