
    Building on the momentum from a historic win in South Carolina and a slew of major national endorsements from former Democratic presidential candidates, including Minnesota Senator Amy Klobuchar, 35 key Minnesota local and statewide elected officials, community leaders, and advocates endorsed Joe Biden for President of the United States.
"Minnesota has a proud tradition of coming together to achieve major, progressive change," said Minnesota State Representative Rena Moran. "Joe Biden has the decency, the tenacity and the temperament not just to lead — but to achieve. If we're serious about defeating Donald Trump, we need to build the coalitions around real change that will make a difference in the lives of working people — that's Joe Biden."
"It's time we brought pragmatic Minnesota values back to the White House," said Minnesota State Senator Erik Simonson. "When disaster strikes or harsh weather hits, we don't fold — we unite as a statewide community and deliver for one another. That's who Joe Biden's always been and he's what our party and our country needs. Our country is in crisis — it's time to beat Donald Trump and start healing our country and our world."
"In Minnesota, we've always respected and revered the dignity of hard work and results," said Minnesota State Representative Dan Wolgamott. "It's not enough to talk tough, you actually have to follow through with what you say — and that's Joe Biden's calling card. There's no one in this race and few in this county who have moved the ball forward on the issues my constituents care about, such as health care, gun violence prevention, climate change, equal rights and passenger rail than Joe Biden. And there's no one in this race — including our current president — who is respected more around the world. It's time to let the world know we mean business, again — it's time to elect Joe Biden."
Today's endorsements include:

State Senator Matt Little
State Senator Ron Latz
State Senator Karla Bigham
State Senator Rob Ecklund
State Senator Erik Simonson
State Senator Matt Kline
State Senator Dick Cohen
State Senator and Former State Senate Majority Leader Tom Bakk
Former St. Paul Mayor Chris Coleman and Connie Coleman
Former Minneapolis City Councilmember Gary Schiff
Former State Senate Majority Leader Roger Moe
Mental Health Parity Advocate David Wellstone
Minneapolis School Board Member Siad Ali
Eden Prairie Mayor Ron Case
Former State Rep. Linda Slocum
Minnesota DFL Director Del Jenkins
Justin Perpich Former 8th Congressional District Chair Justin Perpich
Former Minneapolis Mayoral Candidate Tom Hoch and Mark Addicks
State Representative Rena Moran
Attorney Charles Nauen
State Representative Dan Wolgamott
Businessman Lou and Carol Frillman
Retired Businessman Lee Lynch
Attorney Ben Weissman
Attorney Steve and Heidi Silton
Businessman Cory and Martha Hoeppner
Retired Businessman Lee Lynch
Developer Kelly Doran
Community Activist Linda Garrett Johnson
Minnesota DFL State Party Director Joel Heller

Today's endorsements come on the heels of Minnesota Congressman Colin Peterson's endorsement of Joe Biden's campaign. Peterson was the 54th member of the U.S. House of Representatives to support Biden. Biden leads the field in congressional endorsements with support from 54 U.S. Representatives and seven U.S. Senators, including the most endorsements from members of both the Congressional Black Caucus and Congressional Hispanic Caucus. The support reflects the broad and diverse coalition Biden has been building to ensure we unite the party, unite the country, and beat Trump.
Biden for President has previously announced more than 1,500 endorsements from national, state, and local leaders, including current and former U.S. Senators and Representatives, governors, state elected officials, community leaders, and national security professionals.
  