
    Pool Reports by Matt Viser, The Washington Post 



Sent:
Reports:




March 3, 2023 11:20

In town pool report #1 / gathering
Good morning from the White House, where even the overcast skies can't cloud the TGIF mood.
We are now gathering at the Palm Room doors for the first action of the day. POTUS at 11:30am is scheduled to award the Medal of Honor to Ret. U.S. Army Colonel Paris Davis, for heroism during the Vietnam War. I will note aspects of the ceremony from the room, but you can also follow along live at your favorite streaming channel (including whitehouse.gov/live).
The schedule later in the day includes a 2pm bilateral meeting with German Chancellor Olaf Scholz, where at the top we expect a pool spray in the Oval Office, and a 3:45pm departure for Wilmington. Briefing is slated for 12:45pm. 


March 3, 2023 11:37

In town pool report #2 / 2 minute warning
We are in the East Room, where soothing soft piano music has been playing ahead of the ceremony, interrupted from time to time for brief microphone checks.
The room is full, at least half in military uniforms.
Here's a healthy amount of background from the WH, which just informed that we have a 2 minute warning:
BACKGROUND
The President is awarding the Medal of Honor to Colonel Paris D. Davis, United States Army, Retired, for conspicuous gallantry.
Then-Captain Paris D. Davis distinguished himself by acts of gallantry and intrepidity above and beyond the call of duty while serving as Commander of Detachment A-321, 5th Special Forces Group (Airborne), 1st Special Forces, during combat operations against an armed enemy in the vicinity of Bong Son, Republic of Vietnam, June 17-18, 1965. Captain Davis, commanding an inexperienced South Vietnamese regional raiding force, learned that a vastly superior North Vietnamese enemy force was operating in the area. Through surprise and leadership, he gained the tactical advantage, personally engaging and killing several enemy soldiers. Wounded while leading the initial assault, Captain Davis continued moving forward, personally engaging the enemy in hand-to-hand combat. Launching a counterattack, the superior enemy force separated Captain Davis from his main Regional Force Company. Charging under the intense enemy fire, Captain Davis personally led four others in the destruction of enemy gun emplacements and captured more enemy personnel. Afterwards, Captain Davis moved to regroup his forces and break contact with the enemy to allow his expertly guided tactical air and artillery fire to obliterate the foe. However, the enemy again counter-attacked in superior numbers and Captain Davis was struck by automatic weapons fire. So close was the charging enemy soldier that shot him, Captain Davis engaged him in close-quarter combat and was again wounded in the process of defeating this soldier. Captain Davis then led his men to reorganize into abandoned enemy fighting positions as he continued to call for artillery and air support. Realizing two of his fellow Americans were incapacitated and unable to move while trapped by enemy fire, Captain Davis located their positions and moved to suppress enemy guns and personally rescue each to the safety of the friendly Company position. While enacting the rescue of the first American, Captain Davis was shot in the leg. In great pain he continued forward and dragged him to the Company perimeter. Captain Davis then exposed himself again to the intense enemy fire to rescue the second American, crawling 150 yards to complete the rescue while being hit by enemy grenade fragments. After rescuing the second fellow American, Captain Davis then personally directed the helicopter extraction for the wounded, but refused medical extraction for himself. Captain Davis continued to engage the enemy until all members of his Company were extracted. He remained on the battlefield to continue personal coordination of tactical air and artillery fire, ensuring the destruction of the enemy force.
Personal Background:
Paris Davis was commissioned a Reserve Component officer on June 1, 1959, and received Airborne and Ranger qualifications in 1960, and Special Forces qualification in 1962. His initial overseas tours included Korea, Vietnam (1962-1963), and Okinawa, Japan. Then-Captain Davis performed multiple heroic acts during his second tour in Vietnam (April 1965 to October 1965), during which he received the Silver Star, Bronze Star Medal with "V" device, Purple Heart with one Bronze Oak Leaf Cluster, and the Air Medal with "V" device. He received a Master of Science degree from Southern Illinois University in 1973, and a Master of Public Administration and Doctorate from Northern Virginia University in 1977. After retiring from military service July 30, 1985, he went on to publish a small newspaper in Virginia. A resident of Arlington County, Virginia, Colonel Davis was inducted into the Ranger Hall of Fame in 2019.
Additional Information on the Medal of Honor:
The Medal of Honor is awarded to members of the Armed Forces who distinguish themselves conspicuously by gallantry and intrepidity at the risk of their own lives above and beyond the call of duty while:

 engaged in an action against an enemy of the United States;
 engaged in military operations involving conflict with an opposing foreign force; or
 serving with friendly foreign forces engaged in an armed conflict against an opposing armed force in which the United States is not a belligerent party.

The meritorious conduct must involve great personal bravery or self-sacrifice so conspicuous as to clearly distinguish the individual above his or her comrades and must have involved risk of life. There must be incontestable proof of the performance of the meritorious conduct, and each recommendation for the award must be considered on the standard of extraordinary merit. 


March 3, 2023 11:41

In town pool report #3 / attendees
From the WH, as POTUS enters the East Room and event gets underway:
In attendance for the President's remarks at the Medal of Honor ceremony:
Colonel Paris D. Davis, U.S. Army (Retired)  Secretary Lloyd Austin, Department of Defense  Secretary Denis McDonough, Department of Veterans Affairs Rep. Don Beyer (VA-8)  Secretary Christine Wormuth, U.S. Army Admiral Christopher Grady, Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff General James McConville, Chief of Staff of Army General Daniel Hokanson, Chief of the National Guard Bureau Major General Thomas Solhjem, Chief of Chaplains, U.S. Army  Lieutenant Colonel Jon Roe, Military Aide to the President, U.S. Air Force  Lieutenant Colonel Azizi Wesmiller, Military Aide to the President, U.S. Army Sergeant Major Michael Grinston, U.S. Army
Speaking program Major General Thomas Solhjem delivers the invocation The President Lieutenant Colonel Jon Roe, Military Aide to the President, U.S. Air Force Major General Thomas Solhjem delivers the benediction 


March 3, 2023 12:06

In town pool report #4 / remarks
POTUS at the start of his remarks awarding the Medal of Honor called it "the most consequential day since I've been president."
Captain Davis sat to POTUS' right, staring ahead as POTUS detailed his heroism and his service in a military that had only recently desegregated.
"Paris helped write the history of our nation. And this year, we celebrate the 75th anniversary of our first fully integrated armed forces," he said. "Paris Davis will still stand alongside the nations pioneering heroes."
"Paris, you are everting this medal means — I mean everything this medal means,"POTUS added later. "You are everything our nation is at our best."
The audience stood as the citation was read, and the room was silent as POTUS put the medal around his neck. Afterward, Paris turned to POTUS with a tight smile as the audience loudly applauded.
POTUS departed the room at 12:02pm, with Paris walking by his side, concluding the ceremony.


March 3, 2023 12:48

In town pool report #5 / Medal of Honor recipient's statement
The Medal of Honor recipient, Colonel Paris D. Davis, made a short statement at the sticks on his way out of the White House.
He was asked as he got to the microphones what it meant to be here today. He began looking for notes. "Let me find a statement. I'm supposed to read to you – because I haven't read myself!" he joked.
Reading from a piece of paper, he said: "Thank you, President Biden. This medal reflects what teamwork, service, and dedication can achieve."
"God bless you, God bless all, God bless America," he added.


March 3, 2023 13:09

In town pool report #6 / 2 min warning to briefing
Just got a 2 minute warning for the press briefing. 


March 3, 2023 13:57

In town press report #7 / briefing over
The WH briefing just concluded, with two notable markers:
The entire front row was represented by female journalists. "Yes, it is an all ladies crew in the front row!" White House press secretary Karine Jean-Pierre said at the start. "I wonder if there's history making here today?"
In addition, Colleen Long from the AP noted with the first question that today marked Jean-Pierre's 100th press briefing. "Oh, my gosh. All right," the press secretary said. "Well, cheers!"
Briefing wrapped up so pool can gather for the bilateral meeting with German chancellor Olaf Scholz. 


March 3, 2023 14:11

In town pool report #8 / bilateral pool spray
POTUS started by telling Scholz "welcome back to the White House." He noted last time he was here the Russian invasion was weeks away.
He said Germany's support has been "profound."
Scholz said it was important to forecast the allies will stay with Ukraine as long as needed.
Both leaders did not respond to a barrage of questions at the end.
Fuller remarks coming soon.


March 3, 2023 14:32

In town pool report #9 / fuller remarks and list of participants
When pool entered the room, POTUS and Scholz were both seated.
"Welcome back to the Oval Office, welcome back to the White House," POTUS said to start. "There's been a lot of change since the last time you were here."
Russia was amassing troops on the Ukrainian border last time, he said, when Scholz was here in February 2022.
"We made it clear that if he moved, we would both respond," POTUS said. "And together we made good on that promise. And I want to thank you, Olaf, for your strong and steady leadership. I mean that sincerely. It's made a world of difference."
"You stepped up to provide critical military support. And I would argue, beyond the military support, the moral support you've given Ukrainians has been profound. Profound."
He mentioned some of the domestic political challenges in Germany -- increase in defense spending, diversifying away from Russian energy sources, and said: "I know it's not been easy. Very difficult for you."
"Together we've worked lock step to provide security assistance," he said. "We helped Ukraine meet basic needs and continue to maintain pressure on Putin."
"As NATO allies we're making the alliance stronger and more capable," he added.
"A lot's happened since last year, we've got a lot to talk about," he said in conclusion.
Scholz spoke next, saying he appreciated the opportunity to meet.
"This is a very, very important year because of the dangerous threat to peace that comes from Russia invading Ukraine," he said.
He said being united in helping Ukraine was important, adding: "At this time I think it's very important that we give the message that we will continue to do so as long as it takes."
He said that the transatlantic partnership between the two countries was strong.
"I'm really happy to be here and talk with you," he said in conclusion.
With that, a range of questions were lobbed simultaneously. POTUS seemed to hear several about China, and whether it would be a topic of discussion. He kept a straight face, and then offered a slight smile as shouts came: "Thank you so much! Thank you so much press! Thank you so much!"
The pool was then moved out of the room, concluding the pool spray. The meeting has been expected to last an hour, and will update with any changes.
Meanwhile, the WH provided a list of participants in the meeting:
U.S. Manifest The President T.H. Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs T.H. Amy Gutmann, Ambassador of the United States to the Federal Republic of Germany T.H. Lael Brainard, Assistant to the President & Director of the National Economic Council T.H. Mike Pyle, Deputy Assistant to the President & Deputy National Security Advisor for International Economic Affairs T.H. Karen Donfried, Assistant Secretary of State for European & Eurasian Affairs T.H. Amanda Sloat, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for Europe, National Security Council Ms. Melissa Hanlon, Director for Western European Affairs
German Manifest H.E. Olaf Scholz, Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany Mr. Steffen Hebestreit, State Secretary Dr. Jörg Kukies, State Secretary Mr. Jens Plötner, Foreign & Security Policy Advisor H.E. Emily Haber, Ambassador of the Federal Republic of Germany to the United States Mr. Steffen Meyer, Economic Policy Advisor Ms. Jeanette Schwamberger, Chief of Staff Mr. Alexander Eberl, Head of Division for the U.S. and Canada 


March 3, 2023 15:41

In town pool report #10 / gathered for Marine One departure
We are now gathered on the South Lawn for POTUS departure.
Also noting the helpful note from foreign press pooler that Chancellor Scholz left the grounds of the White House at 3:22pm (which would put their meeting at a bit over the hour it was estimated to last)


March 3, 2023 15:57

In town pool report #11 / Marine One departure
POTUS came over very briefly, saying about Paul Whelan: "we're pushing."
He then seemed ready to make a statement or engage further. As he approached the group, there was a shouted question about Covid origins. POTUS then put both hands up in a shrug, seeming annoyed, and then turned and walked away toward Marine One.
Marine One lifted at 3:47pm
Handing off to out of town pool, with a last note from WH about those traveling with POTUS on Marine One en route to JBA:
Steve Ricchetti, Assistant to the President & Counselor to the President Terry Wolff, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for MENA 




Pool Reports below by Juliane Schäuble, Der Tagesspiegel 



Sent:
Reports:




March 3, 2023 12:30

Foreign pool report #1 / Background on German Chancellor Olaf Scholz' visit
Guten Morgen,
I am your foreign pooler for Chancellor Scholz' visit at the White House on this rainy day. The bilateral meeting of President Biden and Chancellor Scholz is scheduled for 2pm. Please let me know if you have any questions.
Both, White House and German Chancellery, framed the meeting as a "working visit in difficult times". The bilat will largely happen in the Oval Office and is scheduled to last about an hour. There will be no press conference afterwards, just an in-house pool spray at the top. The Chancellor does an interview with CNN which will be broadcasted on Sunday. Later today, Scholz will depart for Germany.
Meetings/phone calls:
This is the second visit of Chancellor Scholz since he was sworn in 15 months ago. His first visit was at the beginning of February last year, roughly two weeks before Russia' invaded Ukraine. Scholz has met President Biden three times since he became Chancellor. The last time was in November 2022 at the G20 summit in Bali. In June 2022, Scholz hosted Biden at the G7 summit in Elmau/Bavaria. Documented by the German government are also 15 phone talks, seven bilateral and eight with other heads of states and governments.
Priorities for bilat:
The war in Ukraine will dominate the bilat as will China. On Friday morning, Chancellor Scholz said in Washington: „The transatlantic relationship, especially the relations between the US and Germany, are as good as it hasn't been for many years. This is important in these times in which we are challenged by Russia's terrible war of aggression against Ukraine. But also in the long run, it will be important that we keep on developing this transatlantic cooperation. Basis for this is trust, that one keeps talking to each other. And this is what we are going to do."
Shortly before embarking on his trip to Washington on Thursday, Olaf Scholz spoke in the German Bundestag about one year "Zeitenwende": On February 27, 2022, a few days after Russia invaded Ukraine, he stated, this marked a historical turning point for German foreign and defense policy. On Thursday, he said: "One year Zeitenwende also means: one year transatlantic partnership – closer and more trusting than ever." He chided China for not condemning Russia's aggression against Ukraine and warned to deliver Beijing to weapons to Russia. Beijing, he said, should use his influence in Moscow to urge for a withdrawal of Russian troops. China should also discuss its ideas for peace directly with Ukraine. He praised China's "clear opposition to Russian nuclear threats.
Another priority on the German agenda is the Inflation Reduction Act (IRA) which the US enacted in 2022. Germany has welcomed efforts to promote climate-friendly technologies through the IRA. But together with other European leaders it has expressed concern that local content requirements of much of the 369 billion of subsidies in the IRA would encourage companies to abandon Europe and move to the US.
Germany's engagement in Ukraine:
Germany is the second largest donor to Ukraine after the US. Since the start of Russia's war of aggression, Germany has committed almost 15 billion dollars in support to Ukraine and Ukrainian refugees. Germany is thus the largest EU donor to Ukraine. Some figures:
Military aid

In January, Berlin committed to providing Leopard battle tanks to Ukraine. In a first step, the Defense Department announced to hand over 18 modern Leopard 2 tanks to Ukraine in the coming weeks, four more than initially planned. Within the coming months, Germany together with partners will deliver to Ukraine at least 100 Leopard 1 A5 battle tanks, including the required logistic support and training.
Germany is also providing around 40 Marder infantry fighting vehicles (IFVs) and one Patriot air defense system which is supposed to be delivered by the end of March.
Berlin delivered a large supply of highly effective weapons, such as Gepard anti-aircraft tanks, state-of- the-art self-propelled howitzers (Panzerhaubitze 2000), multiple rocket launcher systems (MARS II), and the new Iris-T SLM (Surface Launch Medium Range) air defense system protecting Ukraine's skies. Seven additional Gepard anti-aircraft tanks, along with further Iris-T systems, rocket launchers, howitzers, ammunition, and more will follow this year.
The EU set up a military assistance mission in October 2022 to train some 15,000 Ukrainian soldiers. Germany plans to train 5,000 soldiers at the battalion level this year. Additionally, Germany will provide training on the Leopard tanks as well as on the Patriot air defense system. 

Humanitarian aid

Germany has currently taken in more than 1 million refugees from Ukraine, most of whom are women and children. They have all been accorded a special status comparable to a "green card," putting them on virtually equal footing with German citizens.
Ukrainian refugees are entitled to work. They have extensive health insurance and enjoy the full protections of the German social system. If they cannot work, they receive monthly financial support from the state.
Children can attend all public schools and universities in Germany free of charge. Currently, over 200,000 Ukrainian children are attending German schools. 

Bio:
Olaf Scholz is 64 years old and the ninth Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany. A longtime member of Germany's centre-left Social Democratic Party (SPD), Scholz served as Federal Minister of Finance and Vice-Chancellor in the "grand coalition" government of Angela Merkel (2018–21) before succeeding her as chancellor. Scholz was born in the German city of Osnabrück in 1958, grew up in Hamburg and is married. In 1985, he completed his law degree at the University of Hamburg. He has served in various positions within his party. He was a member of the German Bundestag from 1998 to 2001 and from 2002 to 2011. In 2007, Scholz became Federal Minister of Labor and Social Affairs, a position he held until 2009. Following this, he was appointed deputy chair of the SPD parliamentary group. From 2011 to 2018, he served as Mayor of Hamburg. From February until April 2018, he was acting chair of the SPD. 


March 3, 2023 14:14

Foreign pool report #2 / Quotes Oval Office
Pool entered Oval Office at 2:02pm. Potus and Chancellor Scholz were already seated. They spoke in English for 4 minutes. Pool left at 2:07pm. Hard to hear. They didn't take questions.
Biden welcomed Scholz for his second visit as Chancellor. He noted last time Scholz was here, the Russian invasion was weeks away. Called Germany's support „profound."
Scholz said: „I really appreciate to be back at the White House."
„It's a very very important year."
„It's really important that we act together", „in lockstep".
„important to give the message as long as it's necessary"
Stressed that the relationship is „in good shape" -
„thanks to your leadership"
Send more quotes in a minute. 


March 3, 2023 14:40

Foreign pool report #3 / more quotes
President Biden thanked Chancellor Scholz for "historic changes at home": that he "stepped up to provide critical military support" and for the "moral support" for Ukraine. Acknowledged that Germany is finding ways "to move away from Russian energy sources – I know that's not been easy."
Scholz said: "Thank you for having me again… This is a very very important year because of the very dangerous threat that comes from Russia invading Ukraine." The Chancellor said being united in helping Ukraine was important "At this time I think it's very important that we give the message that we will continue to do so as long as it takes and as long as it necessary." He added: "I really appreciate the very good cooperation of our governments", called it "a consequential partnership that is really in a very good shape today – thanks to your leadership." He ended with: "I'm really happy to be here and talking to you."
The German delegation said that we should not expect a readout from their side after they conclude their bilat.
From the White House:
U.S. Manifest The President T.H. Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs T.H. Amy Gutmann, Ambassador of the United States to the Federal Republic of Germany T.H. Lael Brainard, Assistant to the President & Director of the National Economic Council T.H. Mike Pyle, Deputy Assistant to the President & Deputy National Security Advisor for International Economic Affairs T.H. Karen Donfried, Assistant Secretary of State for European & Eurasian Affairs T.H. Amanda Sloat, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for Europe, National Security Council Ms. Melissa Hanlon, Director for Western European Affairs
German Manifest  H.E. Olaf Scholz, Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany Mr. Steffen Hebestreit, State Secretary Dr. Jörg Kukies, State Secretary Mr. Jens Plötner, Foreign & Security Policy Advisor H.E. Emily Haber, Ambassador of the Federal Republic of Germany to the United States Mr. Steffen Meyer, Economic Policy Advisor Ms. Jeanette Schwamberger, Chief of StaffMr. Alexander Eberl, Head of Division for the U.S. and Canada 


March 3, 2023 15:30

Foreign pool report #4 / Scholz left
The motorcade of Chancellor Scholz has left the grounds of the White House at 3:22pm. He didn't come to the stakeout. 




Pool Reports below by Joseph Clark, The Washington Times 



Sent:
Reports:




March 3, 2023 14:27

Out-of-Town Pool Report #1 - Checking in
Good afternoon,
This is your out-of-town print pooler checking in.
WH has passed a GOOD weather call from the South Lawn to JBA.
The President is scheduled to lift at 3:45 PM. We will take AF1 to Delaware Air National Guard Base. 


March 3, 2023 16:12

Out-of-Town Pool Report #2 - JBA arrival
Good afternoon,
Marine One landed at JBA at 4:00 p.m.
President Biden exited Marine One at 4:04 p.m.
He waived to the press but did not stop for questions before boarding.
He boarded Air Force One at 4:05 p.m.
Traveling with the President aboard Air Force One en route to Delaware Air National Guard Base:
Steve Ricchetti, Assistant to the President & Counselor to the President
Terry Wolff, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for MENA
We will be wheels up shortly 


March 3, 2023 16:48

Out-of-Town Pool Report #3 - DANG Arrival
Good Afternoon,
Air Force One landed at DANG at 4:37 p.m.
President Biden exited at 4:45 p.m. and immediately boarded the Beast. He did not respond to questions about his plan for student loans.
Motorcade is moving. 


March 3, 2023 16:50

Out-of-town pool report #4 - Greeting the President at DANG
Greeting the President upon his arrival at Delaware Air National Guard Base:
Colonel Laurie Spraga, Commander of Clinical, Medical Readiness Detachment 


March 3, 2023 17:02

Out-of-town pool report #5 - Arrival at residence
The motorcade arrived at President Biden's residence at 5:01 p.m.
Your pooler did not see Mr. Biden exit the Beast. 


March 3, 2023 17:12

Out-of-town pool report #6 - Lid
The White House has passed a lid.
Thank you. 



  