
    The President. It's about time we had somebody with real popularity in here. [Laughter] I want to say it is a great pleasure and honor for all of us to have the Dallas Cowboys in the East Room. Four years ago they were about 1 and 15, and 4 years later they won the Super Bowl. In the parlance of Washington we call that deficit reduction. [Laughter]
I want to say a special word of appreciation to Jimmy Johnson and Jerry Jones. I watched them win a national championship for Arkansas 30 years ago, before most of the players were born, and I've been cheering them on ever since. Most of the people in our State were Cowboy fans even before Arkansas got its hands on the Cowboys.
I also want to say something very serious. I watched this team over the last year win the way I think Americans win best. They hung in there. They were strong. They were dedicated. They started a lot of games slow, and they always finished fast. And that's what we have to do as a country. We have to endure. We have to never quit, and we have to finish fast. And I think that the country was very thrilled just to watch the renaissance of the Cowboys over the last couple of years.
Let me also say I had a very great political dilemma because the Super Bowl occurred the night I hosted the state dinner for the Governors. So, I had the Governor of New York and the Governor of Texas sitting on either side of me in the beginning of the game before it was obvious what the outcome would be. I was tested as never before in trying to maintain a poker face about the game. [Laughter] But you made it easy for us after a couple of quarters.
Let me say again on behalf of the Vice President and myself to you, Jerry, and to you, Jimmy, and to all the Cowboys, we're grate fid to have you here.
And I understand that this is Michael Irving's birthday, is that right?
Jimmy Johnson. He probably just made that up. [Laughter]
The President. Is that right? Is that right? Is it your birthday? Come up here. How old are you? I said, "How old are you?" He said, "27, but tell them 24." Have you ever considered running for office? [Laughter] Can you imagine that, 27 years old and wealthy enough to retire the national debt. [Laughter] Well, happy birthday. I hope you'll have many more. You may not be able to have any years better than this one, but I hope you have many more at least as good.
[At this point, Dallas Cowboys owner Jerry Jones made a statement.]
Mr. Johnson. Mr. President, it is a tremendous thrill and tremendous honor for all of us to make you an official member of the Dallas Cowboys as a reserve quarterback.
The President. Thank you. I'm just going to sit around now and wait for my number to be called. [Laughter] I'm going to start practicing this afternoon. You know, it's never too late. Thank you very much.
  