
    Members of Congress
Speaker of the House Paul Ryan (R-WI): "The opioid epidemic continues to ravage our communities, and President Trump is right to continue the fight against it. This announcement comes as Congress readies a critical funding bill that will direct more resources to fight this epidemic. By expanding access to treatment and recovery efforts that have proven successful, we can empower individuals to retake control of their lives. And by investing in increased law enforcement efforts, we can empower local communities to address the problem at its root and stop the spread of these deadly drugs."
House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy (R-CA): ".@POTUS' proposals to combat opioid addiction demonstrate that there is ample opportunity to reach a bipartisan consensus. We must stop the tide of this epidemic so the American people can live freer and happier lives."
Sen. Tom Cotton (R-AR): "It's good to see the President give the opioid crisis his personal attention, and I will be introducing legislation soon to make sure the people who profit off the spread of addiction receive the punishment they deserve."
Sen. Shelley Moore Capito (R-WV): "The plan the president announced today is a significant step forward in combatting this epidemic, and it proves that the administration truly understands it is going to take a comprehensive, all-hands-on-deck approach to make real progress in this fight."
House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Rep. Greg Walden (R-OR), Health Subcommittee Chairman Rep. Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), and Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee Chairman Rep. Gregg Harper (R-MS): "We welcome the Trump Administration's proposals and look forward to continuing to work closely with them to combat the deadly scourge. From helping those struggling with addiction on the road to recovery to providing resources to those on the front lines combating the crisis, we see great potential in these ideas, many of which track with our ongoing efforts."
Rep. Richard Hudson (R-NC): "I appreciate President Donald Trump's leadership and passion on this issue, and I welcome the president's proposal. This issue is important to me, and I remain committed to working with the administration, my colleagues, and state and local officials to raise awareness and find ways to defeat this opioid epidemic."
Rep. Elise Stefanik (R-NY): "The President's plan today will address many of the factors contributing to this crisis as well as provide support for those who are suffering from addiction and their families. I commend President Trump for making this a top priority for his Administration."
Rep. Bill Johnson (R-OH): "The President's bold vision very clearly lays out a plan to reduce drug demand, and prevent over-prescription while scaling up research and development to find alternative non-opioid treatments. It also cuts off the flow of illegal drugs across our borders and within communities, toughens criminal penalties for major drug traffickers, and expands opportunities for proven treatments."
Rep. Evan Jenkins (R-WV): "I welcome the president's announcement of new actions and priorities to address the opioid crisis, which has devastated communities and families in West Virginia. The president has proposed a bold stance against the worst drug traffickers in our communities, sending a clear message to dealers who knowingly traffic large quantities of deadly drugs."
Rep. David McKinley (R-WV): "Good to see @POTUS announcing that his administration will be taking this step. Educating children, and the public at large, on the dangers these drugs pose is a critical step."
State Officials
Gov. Asa Hutchinson (R-AR): "I appreciate @POTUS's initiative to address the opioid crisis while strengthening proven treatments for opioid & other drug addictions. We must cut off the flow of illicit drugs within our communities & help save lives through enforcement, prevention & recovery support services."
Gov. Jeff Colyer (R-KS): "I'd like to thank @POTUS for his leadership on combating the opioid epidemic. To thrive as a nation we must put an end to this terrible crisis that is tearing apart our communities and our families. It's time to put an end to opioid abuse.... I look forward to working with @POTUS & @TheJusticeDept to confront this epidemic head on."
Gov. Brian Sandoval (R-NV): "I applaud today's opioid initiative announcement by President Trump. Nevada has and continues to aggressively combat the prescription drug abuse epidemic and today's announcement compliments our state's efforts. The announcement will also help Nevada in building on our efforts to provide the critical resources necessary to combat this disease in our communities."
Gov. Henry McMaster (R-SC): "Today President Trump announced additional measures to combat the opioid crisis—the crisis next door.... I applaud the President's leadership, am grateful for the hard work of the men and women on South Carolina's response team, and look forward to working together to end this scourge on society."
Gov. Jim Justice (R-WV): "People are dying every day from opioid abuse. I'm encouraged and hopeful that @POTUS's plans will help us take bigger steps to resolve this scourge on our society."
Alabama Attorney General Steve Marshall (R): "I want to thank President Trump for his dedication to fight the terrible blight of opioid abuse in America. Opioid abuse is an epidemic that ignores cultural and political boundaries; it affects all of us—and thus demands a response that includes all of us."
Arkansas Attorney General Leslie Rutledge (R): "President Trump and his Administration have shown tremendous leadership in battling the opioid crisis and I remain proud to work with leaders across the country on this issue. This lethal epidemic knows no bounds and requires an aggressive approach including education, treatment and litigation. Tackling the opioid crisis continues to be a top priority and I look forward to complementing our efforts in Arkansas with those set out by the President."
Florida Attorney General Pam Bondi (R): "[Thank you] @POTUS for the comprehensive approach to combat the national opioid crisis. This nationwide initiative will help stop the influx of dangerous drugs, treat addiction & hinder the spread of this deadly epidemic."
Indiana Attorney General Curtis Hill (R): "I support the initiatives put forth by the President today, and I look forward to continued collaborative efforts with the federal government toward a solution to this devastating crisis. I also applaud the President for calling on Congress to pass legislation reducing the threshold amount of drugs needed to invoke mandatory minimum sentences for drug traffickers who knowingly distribute certain illicit opioids that are lethal in trace amounts, and I will be encouraging Indiana lawmakers to heed President Trump's call and take the lead in making Indiana the worst possible state in America for drug dealers to operate."
Ohio Attorney General Mike DeWine (R): "Thank you to @POTUS @realdonaldtrump and @FLOTUS for taking on the #opioid epidemic that has gripped #Ohio and the nation. Your ideas to confront the driving forces behind this crisis will make a tremendous difference in this battle!"
Tennessee Attorney General Herbert Slatery III (R): "We're very pleased with the initiative to stop opioid abuse announced today by Pres Trump.... We're particularly pleased with the commitment to treatment and educational efforts aimed at prescribers and the American public."
West Virginia Attorney General Patrick Morrisey (R): "President Trump's initiative is a significant step forward and one that reinforces our call for broad cooperation within government toward a holistic solution that attacks opioid abuse from a supply, a demand and an educational perspective."
Cabinet Members and Administration Offices
Attorney General Jeff Sessions: "At the Department of Justice, we have made ending the drug epidemic a priority. We will continue to aggressively prosecute drug traffickers and we will use federal law to seek the death penalty wherever appropriate. I want to thank the President for his strong leadership on this issue and I join him in sending the message that business as usual has ended."
Secretary of the Interior Ryan Zinke: "I've seen first-hand how opioids have destroyed communities. Honored to be at the Salt River Indian reservation today with tribal leaders supporting @realDonaldTrump policies to combat the #OpiodCrisis on our tribal lands."
Secretary of Agriculture Sonny Perdue: "The opioid epidemic is a severe problem in rural America. @POTUS's nationwide initiative takes the issue head-on."
Secretary of Health and Human Services Alex Azar: "The president today is laying out very bold actions and historic goals to stop this crisis dead in its tracks."
State Department Acting Under Secretary for Public Diplomacy and Public Affairs Heather Nauert: "By leading international efforts like last week's successful vote to control #carfentanil, @StateDept is proud to support @POTUS' initiative to save American lives by combating the #opioidcrisis and cutting off the supply of illicit drugs."
Office of National Drug Control Policy: "Today's historic announcement in NH highlights a crisis that knows no bounds. @POTUS' opioid initiative boldly confronts the driving forces behind the opioid epidemic and presents a pathway forward for so many Americans who have endured terrible hardships because of its effects."
White House Office of Science and Technology Policy: "President Trump's plan to combat the opioid crisis includes R&D for innovative new therapies and vaccines to prevent addiction, decrease opioid use in pain management; improved inspection and screening technologies; a nationally interoperable Prescription Drug Monitoring Program."
Advocacy Organizations
Association of State and Territorial Health Officials Executive Director Michael Fraser: "The president's plan demonstrates important leadership for this critical public health issue and contains vital measures states and territories can take to address the opioid misuse and addiction epidemic that is plaguing our nation. We believe the President is serious about implementing the recommendations of his commission, many of which will strengthen the capacity of state health agencies to address the problem."
National Council for Behavioral Health Senior Vice President for Public Policy and Practice Improvement Chuck Ingoglia: "The National Council for Behavioral Health welcomes this call to action from the White House. The plan contains some important steps that will increase access to effective, evidence-based treatment, particularly Medication-Assisted Treatment for opioid addiction."
  