
    Today, the Chicago Sun-Times endorsed Joe Biden for President. In their endorsement of Vice President Biden, the Sun-Times cited his support for unions, ability to beat Donald Trump, impact on down-ballot candidates, and how he will govern on day one.
Chicago Sun-Times: Endorsement: Joe Biden for designated driver in a country binging on discord
"Thank you, Democrats, for the designated driver. We were feeling despondent about our chances of getting home safely. The guy behind the wheel now, Donald Trump, veers like a drunk all over the road of decency and values, driving into hate-filled ditches...So, yes, we were relieved on Super Tuesday when you surprised everybody, you Democrats, and voted in big numbers to give Joe Biden the keys."
"But when Biden crossed the finish line ahead of Sanders in 10 states on Tuesday, leaving him with a total of 638 pledged delegates to Sanders' 563 as of Friday morning, he defied the predictions of all the smart people and, well, the sun peeked out."
"Today, we are endorsing Biden in the March 17 Illinois primary — and every other state Democratic primary that's left — for three reasons:

Biden stands the best chance of beating Trump in November. Nothing matters more than that. He is supported by a broad coalition of Democrats. Sanders had predicted a big surge in the number of voters on Tuesday and there was indeed a surge — for the other guy. African Americans, suburban women and politically moderate whites of all backgrounds voted for Biden because, as they told reporters outside polling places, Trump's gotta go.
Biden's name at the top of the Democratic ticket... gives centrist Democrats running for Congress their best chance of winning. This is essential. We don't even want to think about what another four years of Trump would look like if the Democrats were to lose the House.
Biden would be a better president than Sanders. He would govern in a moderately progressive manner, not unlike his old boss Barack Obama, and put together a competent crew of administrators.

Biden would defend and improve the Affordable Care Act, take action to make higher education more affordable, reinstate protections for immigrants and religious minorities, take climate change seriously, address tax advantages at the heart of runaway wealth inequality, and mend relations with tried-and-true allies around the world."
"Consider one example: Biden and Sanders' competing plans to making a college education more affordable.
Biden would make two years of community college free. He would cut — but not wipe out — student loan obligations, particularly for those who work public service jobs. He would cancel undergraduate federal student loan debt for people earning less than $25,000, and cap loan payments for everybody else at 5% of their after-tax income.
His plan would reduce the cost of higher education for tens of millions of Americans. More to the point, it could become reality. We can well imagine Biden wrangling the votes in a Democratic-controlled House and maybe even, given his proclivity for bipartisanship, in a Republican Senate."
"Biden is a man of compassion, honor and decency, unlike the man in the White House. Anybody can see that. And he has worked over a professional lifetime to improve in practical ways the lot of others. He worked closely with Obama to craft and make law the Affordable Care Act.
We can't, as a nation, keep binging on discord.
We're looking for a safe ride home, hoping it's still there.
We're happy to ride shotgun if Joe Biden is behind the wheel."
  