
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
March 12
The President declared a major disaster in the State of California and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the areas struck by winter storms that caused flooding, landslides, and mud debris flows beginning February 13.
March 13
In the afternoon, the President was presented with the Boy Scout Report to the Nation by Boy Scout of America representatives in the Oval Office.
March 14
The President declared a major disaster in the State of South Dakota and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the areas struck by severe winter storms for the period of January 13-February 10.
The President announced his intention to appoint Paul Warnke, Albert Carnesale, Mike Mochizuki, and Gregory van der Vink to be members of the Scientific and Policy Advisory Committee of the Arms Control and Disarmament Agency.
The President announced his intention to appoint LeRoy F. Saunders to the Committee for Purchase from People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled.
March 15
In the morning, the President met with California State legislators in the Roosevelt Room to discuss flood relief efforts.
March 16
In the afternoon, the President attended a St. Patrick's Day luncheon at the Capitol. Later, he briefly met with President Franjo Tudjman of Croatia; Kresimir Zubak, President, and Ejup Ganic, Vice President, Federation of Bosnian Muslims and Croats; and Tatjana Ljujic-Mijatovic, Presidency Member, Republic of Bosnia-Herzegovina in the Roosevelt Room. He then met with President Tudjman in the Oval Office.
The President declared nine additional counties in California as major disaster areas following winter storms which caused flooding and mud slides.
March 17
In the evening, the President and Hillary Clinton hosted an Irish reception on the State Floor.
The President announced his intention to appoint Linda Alvarado to the President's Advisory Commission on Educational Excellence for Hispanic Americans.
The President announced his intention to appoint Mary Houghton to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Credit Standards Advisory Committee.
The President announced his intention to appoint Louis V. Gerstner, Jr., and John A. Georges to be members of the Advisory Committee for Trade Policy and Negotiations.
  