
    Pool Reports by Eugene Daniels, POLITICO 



Sent:
Reports:




March 28, 2023 12:02 GMT

VP Supplemental Ghana Pool #1 - Schedule and Background from WH
Hey there, everyone I am your pooler for the VP's third day in Ghana. Your pool is holding to head to Black Star Gate. The motorcade started rolling around 11:10 from the VP's hotel. 
She has two big events, each that will be streamed on the White House's channels.
The full schedule today:
At 11:30 AM GMT, the Vice President will deliver a speech at Black Star Gate in Accra, Ghana. The Second Gentleman will attend. This speech will be open to pre-credentialed media and live-streamed at WhiteHouse.gov/live.
At 2:10 PM GMT, the Vice President and Second Gentleman will travel to Cape Coast, Ghana. This departure and arrival will be pooled press.
At 3:20 PM GMT, the Vice President and Second Gentleman will meet with Cape Coast Chief OsabarimaKwesi Atta II. This meeting will have a pool spray at the top.
At 4:00 PM GMT, the Vice President and Second Gentleman will tour Cape Coast Castle. This tour will be pooled press. Following the tour, the Vice President will deliver remarks. These remarks will be open to pre-credentialed media and live-streamed at WhiteHouse.gov/live.
At 5:40 PM GMT, the Vice President and Second Gentleman will depart Cape Coast en route to Accra. This departure and arrival will be pooled press.
On background attributed to a White House Official on first speech:

Vice President Kamala Harris will deliver remarks to thousands of young people at Blackstar Gate in Accra, Ghana on Tuesday, March 27. 
The Vice President will express her optimism about the future of Africa, and by extension, the world, because of the ingenuity, and creativity that is prevalent across the continent, especially in young people. 
The speech centers around the theme of innovation—and she will argue that alongside our African partners, we all must invest in innovation on the continent, which will unlock growth and opportunity and provide global benefits. 
She will highlight innovative developments taking place across the continent and make clear that they are benefitting the entire world—from tech, agriculture, clean energy, and science. The Vice President is using her platform to call more global attention to the dynamism and entrepreneurship across the continent. 
The Vice President will also outline three areas in particular that are a focus for her trip and moving forward—areas where she believes we must make progress to unlock even more innovation: the empowerment of women, digital inclusion, and good governance and democracy. 
On the empowerment of women, the Vice President will argue that women around the world must be able to full participate in economic, political, and social life, that they must be able to participate equally, including in leadership roles. She will make the case that this is key to maximizing global growth and opportunity, and will call for progress in addressing gender disparities. 
On digital inclusion, the Vice President will make clear that digital services are essential to 21st century economies, and while there are places on the continent of Africa that lead the world in digital solutions, other parts of the continent lag behind. She will make the case that we must expand access to the internet and ensure African people fully benefit from connectivity, whether that is access to education, access to information, or access to financial services. She will commit to work the private sector to unleash growth and opportunity and increase digital inclusion on the continent. 
On good governance and democracy, the Vice President will argue that alongside our African partners, we must support and invest in good governance and democracy. She will outline the benefits of good governance for investments. She will underscore the desires of African people for democracy, which we share, and outline the benefits, including freedom and opportunity. 
In addition, the Vice President will outline our approach to partnership with African nations and African people, building on President Biden's statement at the U.S.-Africa Leaders Summit in December 2022 that "we're all in on Africa." 
The Vice President will make clear that our Administration will strengthen partnerships across the continent—with governments, the private sector, civil society, and young people.




March 28, 2023 12:42 GMT

VP Supplemental Ghana #2 - Speech over
The VP spoke for about
Thousands were in the heat with fans, and US and Ghanaian flags waving. The biggest applause lines were on Harris talking about shattering the glass ceiling, women's empowerment and her being the first Black vice president.
The space is right by the ocean. I tweeted a wide picture if you'd like to see it: >https://twitter.com/eugenedaniels2/status/1640694400182353923?s=46&t=AZ-oL_v_qrynN8fwNkNmrw<
The event was livestreamed for quotes, etc.
Ghanaian police say 8,000 were in attendance.
Pool was ushered out and into the motorcade quickly. We are now holding at the hotel for about an hour before we head to the landing zone for helicopters.


March 28, 2023 14:04 GMT

VP Supplemental #3 -- Heading to helicopters
The pool is loaded in the motorcade to head to the helicopters for the next events -- a welcome at the Palace and then Harris is touring the Cape Coast Castle.
We rolled off at 1:55. The movements are all very quick so will not be able to send all color as it comes but will provide updates as I can.


March 28, 2023 15:55 GMT

VP Supplemental Pool #4 -- travel to the coast
Harris walked out of the motorcade at 2:05 to the helicopter. Pool was rushed to the helicopter soon after.
We landed just before 2:55.
We did not see Harris land but am told she landed after us. We held in the cars. Landing was at Cape Coast stadium on the grass. The grass is surrounded has white stands, surrounded by a chainlink fence. I'm told by Harris advance it is an operative stadium.
As we drove to the Palace, dozens of Ghanains were lining the street waving and smiling at the motorcade
There were dancers outside of the welcome space, along with drums
Harris walked in at 3:15 and was given a bouquet of flowers. She and the second gentleman walked around to greet some of the elders.
There's a stage where Harris, Emhoff, the chief and another Central Regional Minister.
A woman named Irene logan sang a single that began:
GOD BLESS OUR LAND GHANA ...
She then sang the American National anthem.
Harris and Emhoff both put their hands over their hearts while she sang. There was a prayer right after.
The chief linguist gave a blessing and poured alcohol out every few sentences. Including after he said "Kamala Harris"
He was surrounded by three other men. All in traditional Kente cloth.
The central regional minister welcomed Harris while Harris nodded along.
"Excellency be at home because everyone here is with you and part of you."
"We believe your visit will tk further engagement" between the countries.
Called on "more women to participate in leadership positions."
We cannot achieve things without holding hands, she says. She ended by saying "Akwaba. Akwaba."
Please check quotes against the otter here: https://otter.ai/u/IFN1SNErphTtO3fxf3UCVEDlcA0
Four women then came and danced in front of the stage waving handkerchiefs.
The chief then spoke while sitting next to Harris. He described it as a small town of mostly farmers.
Over the years we've had president Obama and the wife visit the castle, we've had the wife of president ... Trump and Nancy Pelosi.
"Now it's your turn. When you go there, you ask yourself so many questions. Why should anybody treat anybody the way out ancestors were treated?"
Said we want to be close to the power. We want to be number one friend of the white house."
He then asks Harris for a "reciprocal visit" to the white house so "Cape Coast can also be strong."
Says there is a slavery museum that will tell the "whole story" that will tell the whole story of the Atlantic slave trade.
Invited Harris to the opening of the museum.
We want you to connect with us, he says.
He looked at Doug "please take care of her for me."
VP says she is appointing the ambassadorThere is an unmistakable tie and bond. Says she will
"How could I deny a request from my host? I've been raised properly," she said laughing.
"This will not be the last time we meet or speak."
Check their quotes on this otter for full: https://otter.ai/u/eXTqvlsXuy5KDXCVurC9qOVaXM4
Harris stood up and the minster put a Kente fabric over her shoulder.
Emhoff was also fully wrapped in Kente cloth. "Thank you!"
The four of them then took a picture
We are now headed up the street to the castle.


March 28, 2023 16:28 GMT

VP SUPPLEMENTAL #5 Cape Coast Castle
Harris' motorcade drove the few minutes from the welcome to the castle and arrived around 4:05. She was greeted by more drums and people waving the flags of Ghana and the united States.
They are also singing but having a hard time making out the words.
Harris got out, waved to the crowd and looked up at the castle as she walked in and then to a hold.
Press was walked through the entrance and to a section where Harris was set to come.
Harris walked over around 4:25 to the male dungeons where she and the second gentleman stood with the tour guide for a few minutes and then headed down.
Will send more soon.


March 28, 2023 16:58 GMT

VP Supplemental Pool #6 -- tour
At one point, while near the cannon sir the castle and looking iut at the water garrus got a moment to herself. She took several deep breaths. Harris was clearly moved and wiped her nose, composing herself as she walks around with the tour guide and second gentleman.
Harris walked into the female slave dungeons and laid flowers. The bouquet is the flowers she was given at the arrival ceremony.
The tour guide sang a song while holding Harris' flowers. The VP's team is going to find out what he was singing.
Harris took a deep breath and exhaled. The guide walked her through the door of no return and explained to her and the second gentlemen what would happen to slaves after they went through the door. The second gentleman also wiped his eyes.
They thanked the tour guide who shaked their hands and embraced Harris. Harris was then taken to hold before her remarks at 4:56. They will be livestreamed.


March 28, 2023 17:26 GMT

VP supplemental pool #7 — Harris Remarks After Tour
Harris finished speaking around 5:18. It was live-streamed. We're told Harris had prepared remarks, read the first couple of lines and then went off the cuff.
"The crimes that were done here. The blood that was shed here."
"They were kidnapped from their homes. They were transported hundreds of miles from their homes."
"They came to this place of horror. Some to die, many to starve, women to be raped before they were then forcibly taken on a journey thousands of miles from their homes" on the Atlantic slave trade.
"We don't know the numbers of people who died on their way to this place. The numbers who were killed in that passage to the Atlantic."
"The horror of what happened here must always Be remembered. It must be taught. History must be learned. We must be guided by the history of those who survived in the Americas, in the Caribbean ..."
"She walked out and the pool was ushered to the cars to be taken to the helicopters at 5:21."
We spoke with the docent who toured with Harris: otter here: https://otter.ai/u/hlIsm3QwlXGPFd_-Vsva-_lmELU
We are rolling to the helicopter.



  