
    "Senator Santorum has expressed a lot of regrets lately, ranging from his recent comments on the economy to his repeated endorsements of Arlen Specter. While President Obama has been insistent on apologizing for America, Rick Santorum is becoming an expert at apologizing for Rick Santorum." —Ryan Williams, Romney Campaign Spokesman
Senator Santorum Regrets Saying He Doesn't Care About The Unemployment Rate:
Santorum Walked Back His Comments On Not Caring About The Unemployment Rate, Saying He'd Like A "Do-Over." "Hours after he said he doesn't 'care what the unemployment rate's going to be,' Rick Santorum admitted to an Illinois crowd that he sometimes wishes he had the opportunity for a 'do-over.'" (Arlette Saenz, "After Unemployment Flub, Santorum Admits He Sometimes Wishes For A 'Do-Over'," ABC News, 3/19/12)
Senator Santorum Has Had A Number Of Regrets Lately — Despite His Insistence That He Always Acted On "Principle":
Santorum Now Says He Regrets His Past Endorsements Of Liberal Arlen Specter. QUESTION: "I think we have a screen grab from that. You were there on the stage with [Specter]. You were probably his most — maybe his most prominent supporter. Why did you support Arlen Specter for president?" SANTORUM: "Well, you know, when your colleague is running for office, and, you know, I was his colleague in the United States Senate, he asked me to stand with him. That certainly wasn't one of my prouder moments I look back on. But look, you know, you work together as a team for the state of Pennsylvania and I felt that Senator Specter stood up and supported me when I was running in 1994 and I did likewise." (ABC's "This Week," 3/18/12)

FLASHBACK: In His Failed 2006 Senate Race, Santorum Used Specter As A Campaign Surrogate. "Specter arrives in Allentown today to campaign for Santorum at Lehigh County GOP headquarters. ... 'Sen. Specter's No. 1 priority is Sen. Santorum's re-election,' Specter spokesman Scott Hoeflich said. ... Specter's backing of Santorum could be a crucial factor as Santorum aims to rally socially moderate Republicans throughout the state ahead of the Nov. 7 election, political observers say. ... 'Specter gives Santorum respectability with voters who otherwise might find him objectionable,' said former Penn State University political science professor Michael Young." (Josh Drobnyk, "Specter Paying Back Santorum For '04 Help," The Allentown Morning Call, 8/28/06)

Santorum Now Says He Regrets Voting For No Child Left Behind Because It Led To More Education Spending. SANTORUM: "I think we've all had votes that I look back on; I wish I wouldn't have voted to No Child Left Behind. You're right, it led to education spending. That's why I've said we need to cut and eliminate No Child Left Behind and education funding from the federal government, move it back to the local level where it belongs, where parents and local communities can deal with that." (Sen. Rick Santorum, CNN Debate, Mesa, AZ, 2/22/12)


    FLASHBACK: In His Failed 2006 Senate Race, Santorum Touted That He Voted For "Record Levels" Of Federal Funding For PA Schools. "Rick has voted for record levels of funding for Pennsylvania's public schools." (Santorum 2006, "50 Things You May Not Know About Rick Santorum," Campaign Brochure)
  

Santorum Now Says He Regrets Voting For The Medicare Prescription Drug Benefit. Q: "Now, didn't you contribute to the deficit problem when you were in Congress? Back in 2003, you voted to create a new prescription drug, Medicare prescription drug benefit, but you didn't provide any funding. And according to most estimates, it's adding $60 billion a year to the deficit." SANTORUM: "Yes, I would say that that was a mistake. ... I was against that. I spoke against it. I worked against it. But we lost. And so, now, we have — we have a situation..." Q: "And you voted for it." SANTORUM: "I voted for it..." (Fox's "Fox News Sunday," 4/24/11)


    FLASHBACK: In His Failed 2006 Senate Race, Santorum Boasted Of His Vote For The Prescription Drug Benefit. "Rick fought to make sure Pennsylvania Seniors have a prescription drug plan under Medicare that not only dramatically lowers costs, but also prevents any Senior from ever being financially devastated due to the cost of their prescription drugs." (Santorum 2006, "50 Things You May Not Know About Rick Santorum," Campaign Brochure)
  

  