
    NH Support Continues to Grow
FRANCONIA, NH -- Prominent Franconia legislator and healthcare advocate State Representative Martha McLeod today announced her decision to endorse Senator Hillary Clinton for President.
"Senator Clinton has the wisdom, passion and commitment to children and families that will make her a great President," said McLeod. "She has made healthcare a priority throughout her career as an attorney, First Lady, and United States Senator, and I know she will continue to do so when she is President."
McLeod, who was a prominent supporter of John Edwards in 2003, is currently the Executive Director of the North Country Health Consortium in Littleton, NH, serves on the Board of the New Hampshire Health Plan and is the Chair of the New Hampshire Rural Development Council.
She was first elected to the New Hampshire House in 2004. Her previous professional experiences include her service as the Center Director for the Northern New Hampshire Area Health Education Center, as a Nutrition Coordinator with the State of New Hampshire's Division of Public Health and as the Assistant Director of the Rockingham Community Action Program, Women, Infants and Children Program.
"I am thrilled and honored to have Martha's support," said Senator Clinton. "We share a common passion and commitment to providing quality healthcare to working families. I look forward to having her on my campaign and to having her with me when I return to the North Country to talk with families about my plan to insure every child and ensure access to quality, affordable healthcare to all Americans."
Rep. McLeod joined Sen. Clinton at her New Hampshire campaign kick-off event on February 10 in Berlin, NH. Three hundred people packed Berlin's City Hall and 200 people filled an overflow room across the street to capacity. It's the first time in recent memory that a presidential candidate has kicked off a campaign in the North Country and has drawn a crowd this size.
Clinton's decision to kick off her New Hampshire campaign in Berlin reflects her commitment to running a strong campaign in the Granite State. It's also a metaphor for the kind of national campaign she'd run as the Democratic nominee in 2008: Just as she will visit every corner of New Hampshire, she'll campaign in communities throughout the country.
  