
    For Immediate Release
SELMA, ALABAMA—Tulsi Gabbard, Hawaii congresswoman and presidential candidate, participated in the 2019 Congressional Pilgrimage to Alabama this weekend, hosted by The Faith and Politics Institute to find "Hope in History" on the hallowed ground of the Civil Rights Movement. The annual experience has been underway since 1998 to inspire and live out the virtues of conscience, courage, compassion, and commitment called for in the philosophy of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. and exemplified in the valor of the Movement's foot soldiers.
Video of Tulsi Gabbard's Civil Rights Pilgrimage visits is available here for download.
The photos below and more from Tulsi Gabbard's Civil Rights Pilgrimage visits are available here for download.
Click images below to enlarge and read captions


Tulsi Gabbard Embarks on Civil Rights Pilgrimage to Alabama



Tulsi Gabbard Embarks on Civil Rights Pilgrimage to Alabama


Tulsi Gabbard Embarks on Civil Rights Pilgrimage to Alabama


Tulsi Gabbard Embarks on Civil Rights Pilgrimage to Alabama



Tulsi Gabbard Embarks on Civil Rights Pilgrimage to Alabama


Friday, March 1st Pilgrimage Visits

16th Street Baptist Church
Birmingham Civil Rights Institute
Legacy Museum
National Memorial for Peace and Justice

Saturday, March 2nd Pilgrimage Visits

Crossing of the Edmund Pettus Bridge in Selma, AL
Selma Interpretive Center
Brown Chapel A.M.E. Church
Martin Luther King, Jr. Center
Dexter Avenue King Memorial Baptist Church
Rosa Parks Museum
Reflections on History at Alabama Capitol
Alabama Archives

Sunday, March 3rd Pilgrimage Visits

First Baptist Church Montgomery Morning Service
Rosa Parks Bus Site Visit
BTW Magnet High School Jazz Performance at The Kress Building

About The Faith & Politics Institute
The Faith & Politics Institute advances democracy by creating experiences that bring political leaders together across divides through congressional pilgrimages, forums, and small group dialogues.
Founded in 1991, The Faith & Politics Institute has inspired hundreds of members of Congress, senior congressional staff, U.S. Presidents, cabinet members, and international diplomats in their public service by cultivating mutual respect, moral reflection, increased understanding, and honest conversation among political leaders to advance productive discourse and constructive collaboration.
Disclaimer: Use of photos and videos taken during the pilgrimage organized by The Faith & Politics Institute (FPI) does not suggest approval or endorsement by FPI.
  