
    
Atlanta, GA - Pastors and faith leaders from throughout Georgia — including from more than a dozen churches — announced Monday they are personally endorsing Newt Gingrich in Tuesday's Republican primary and joining his Faith Leaders Coalition.
The pastors include Dr. Richard Lee, pastor of First Redeemer in Cumming, Dr. Michael Youssef, an Atlanta Christian author and broadcaster, and the Rev. Benny Tate of Rock Springs Methodist in Milner, Ga.
Lee, Youssef and Tate are national co-chairs of Gingrich's Faith Leaders Coalition. They will be working with the new Georgia faith leaders on Gingrich's advisory coalition.
"Our nation sorely needs a President who not only says he believes in God but takes faith with him to the Oval Office every day," said Dr. Lee. "Newt Gingrich is that man. And he will be the type of President to protect our right to worship without Washington interference. Religious freedom is what makes America exceptional, and Newt will make sure that freedom remains secure."
Dr. Youssef added: "Newt is the one candidate who has the depth and knowledge to tackle the complex issues facing our nation today. I know he is a man of faith who will ask God to guide him in leading our country and keep our nation safe."
Also endorsing Gingrich and joining the coalition is the Rev. Ike Reighard, senior pastor of Piedmont Church in Marietta, the Rev. Bill Purvis, pastor of Cascade Hills Church in Columbus, and the Rev. George Dillard, senior minister of Peachtree City Christian Church.
Gingrich said that having strong support from the faith community will make him a strong President.
"These faith leaders are important spiritual advisors to me and my campaign," Gingrich said. "With God's help and the American people, I want to be the next President and defend religious liberty among other issues important to those of faith."
Other religious leaders who announced their support of Gingrich Monday and are joining the Faith Leaders Coalition include:

Pastor Nathan Sanders, First Congregational Methodist Church, Cartersville
Rev. Wayne Reed, pastor, Christ Congregational Methodist Church, Grayson
Rev. James Gray, pastor, First Congregational Methodist of Griffin
Rev. Talmadge Guess, pastor, Congregational Methodist Church,  Homerville
Rev. Al Kurtz, pastor, Mount Zion Congregational Methodist Church,  Mitchell
Rev. Therman "Pet" Hayes, pastor, New Vision Church, Alma
Rev. Thomas Chapman, senior pastor, Praise Tabernacle, Powder Springs
Rev. Phillip Cook, pastor, Snow Hill Church, Gordon
Youth Pastor John Sweat, Sherwood Baptist Church, Augusta
Bishop David Huskins, International Communion of Charismatic Churches,  Cedartown
Rev. Mary Jo Willoughby, pastor, Providence Church, Jackson

  