
    Tonight, California State Controller Betty Yee issued the following press release endorsing Joe Biden for President of the United States.
Yee's endorsement builds on the wide support for Joe Biden in California, which includes prominent leaders like Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti,Sacramento Mayor Darrell Steingberg, Long Beach Mayor Robert Garcia, Los Angeles County Supervisor and former Secretary of Labor Hilda Solis, Senator Dianne Feinstein, former Senator Barbara Boxer, Congresswoman Lucille Roybal-Allard, Congressman Tony Cárdenas, Congressman Ami Bera, Congressman John Garamendi, Congressman Lou Correa, and more than 50 others.
Controller Betty Yee Endorses Former Vice President Joe Biden for U.S. President
Yee says that Vice President Biden is the experienced and resilient candidate best suited to defeat Trump and restore civility in America
Sacramento, California —Today, Controller Betty Yee formally announced her endorsement of former Vice President Joe Biden ahead of the state's presidential primary this Tuesday.
Recognized widely as an effective, progressive policy wonk, Yee stated,
"I have until now chosen not to endorse a candidate in the 2020 Democratic presidential primary. I have been watching and listening closely to all of the Democratic candidates on the issues that matter most - healthcare for all, the climate crisis, and growing inequality.
"While there is no candidate with whom I am perfectly aligned, the most important objectives are making sure Trump is a one-term president and the United States regains civility here at home and across the globe. Vice President Joe Biden is our best hope to achieve this, and I am proud to endorse him today for President of the United States. Time and time again, Biden has been knocked down by life's blows. And time after time, he refused to be knocked out. Gloves on. I am pleased to stand with Joe Biden for President."
California State Controller Betty Yee won her re-election for state controller with nearly 8 million votes in 2018 - the single largest vote-getter in California and the nation in 2018.
Betty has 35 years of experience in state and local finance and tax policy. In her second term as State Controller, Betty is focusing on California's affordability crisis — specifically the ways that the economic disruptors of climate change and technological innovations in the workplace will affect the financial insecurity of California workers and families. Betty will target her policies to address the impacts of these changes on California workers, affordable housing, health care, education, and economic growth.
  