
    Pool Reports by Steven Nelson, New York Post 



Sent:
Reports:




March 20, 202309:02

Pool Report 1/Brunch lid
The White House has declared a "brunch" lid until 12:30.
Pre-set for the Nowruz reception in the East Room remains at 11:30.



March 20, 202310:11

Pool Report 2/Kirby at briefing
The press office says John Kirby, NSC coordinator for strategic communications, will join Karine Jean-Pierre at this afternoon's briefing.



March 20, 202313:00

Pool Report 3/Gathered
Press has gathered in the East Room for the Nowruz celebration.
President Biden's remarks will be streamed live on WH website: https://www.whitehouse.gov/live/



March 20, 202313:12

Pool Report 4/2 minute warning
We have a 2 minute warning for President Biden's remarks.



March 20, 202313:17

Pool Report 5/Event info
The White House shares the following:
In attendance for the President and the First Lady's remarks at the White House Nowruz Reception:
The Vice PresidentThe Second GentlemanMayor Sepideh Shyne, West Hollywood, CaliforniaCity Council President David Emami, Happy Valley, OregonCity Councilmember Shebreh Kalantari-Johnson, Santa Cruz, CaliforniaCity Councilmember Liliana Bakhtiari, Atlanta, GeorgiaCity Councilmember Amir Farokhi, Atlanta, GeorgiaPersian-American stakeholders, community members, members of the Biden-Harris Administration, and White House staff.
Speaking Program
The First LadyLieutenant Colonel Jasmine "Jaws" MoghbeliThe President
Background on Speaker
Lt. Col. Jasmin Moghbeli was selected by NASA to join the 2017 Astronaut Candidate Class. She reported for duty in August 2017. The New York native earned a Bachelor of Science degree in Aerospace Engineering with Information Technology at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and a Master of Science in Aerospace Engineering from the Naval Postgraduate School. Moghbeli, an AH-1W Super Cobra pilot and Marine Corps test pilot, has over 150 combat missions and 2,000 hours of flight time in over 25 different aircraft. She is also a distinguished graduate of the U.S. Naval Test Pilot School in Patuxent River, MD. She has been selected as commander of the NASA SpaceX Crew-7 mission to the ISS which is expected to launch no earlier than 2023.



March 20, 202313:34

Pool Report 6/Biden remarks done
President Biden began speaking at 1:22. He mentioned the "courage" of Iranian women and said he would work to bring home wrongfully detained Americans. Biden ended his remarks at 1:30.
Note: Reporters were unable to see Biden very well during the event due to hundreds of standing guests positioned between the press and president. The logistics made questions impossible.



March 20, 202313:37

Pool Report 7/More event info
The White House shares the following:
Performing at the White House Nowruz Reception:
Performers
Sahba Motallebi, Tar Player – Performing: Birth (on Persian sitar)Rana Mansour, Singer – Performing: For Woman, Life, Liberty
Background on Performers
Rana Mansour is an Iranian-American singer songwriter who is a pioneer in the Persian contemporary music scene. Singing in at least 10 different languages, Rana's music helps bridge the gap between east and west. A graduate of Berklee College of Music in Boston, Rana fuses elements of pop, jazz, rock, and other genres into her songs and artistic creations, elevating and challenging the standards of the Persian pop music scene. Rana Mansour is also one of the leading Persian, female singer who is a devout activist for the women's rights movement in Iran where women are banned from singing in public or as the main performer. Currently, Rana is residing in Los Angeles and actively recording and writing new material.
Sahba Motallebi is recognized internationally for her exquisite performances of Persian music on the tar and setar. She has been referred to as the "Queen of the Tar" or "Jimi Hendrix, but on Tar," For nearly two decades she has lived in Southern California, continuing to perform worldwide. Recently, she appeared on the Grammy-winning Fandango at the Wall album as the first Iranian woman who won the Grammy with their band.



March 20, 202313:49

Pool Report 8: Sudeikis joining briefing
The White House shares the following:
Jason Sudeikis and the cast of Ted Lasso will join Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre at the press briefing today to discuss the importance of addressing mental health to promote overall well-being.
Cast Members in AttendanceJason SudeikisHannah WaddinghamBrett GoldsteinBrendan HuntToheeb Jimoh



March 20, 202314:15

Pool Report 9/2 minute warning
We have a 2-minute warning to the press briefing, which will feature both John Kirby and Jason Sudeikis.
Some of the actors from the TV show Ted Lasso (hosted on the platform Apple TV+) are standing around the press seats in the room, including the actor who plays a reporter.



March 20, 202315:41

Pool Report 10/Lid
We have a travel/photo lid.




  