
    Pool Reports by Brian Bennett, Time Magazine 



Sent:
Reports:




March 30, 2023 10:16

In town pool report #1 - checking in
Greetings from a sunny, crisp spring morning at the White House. I'll be your pooler for the day.
As of now, there are no public events on the President's schedule.
White House Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre is scheduled to brief at 2 pm.
And... It is Opening Day at Nationals Park. Go Nats! 


March 30, 2023 11:11

In town pool report #2 - Quotes from Hoyer gaggle at West Wing sticks
Rep. Steny Hoyer spoke for just over 5 minutes at the sticks outside the West Wing at around 10:30 am.
He was surrounded by other Democratic members of Congress. He said the group was at the White House to talk about how to tell Americans about the infrastructure investments being made in their districts. He said President Biden did not stop by today's meeting.
Here are some quotes:
Hoyer: "This is a House effort to make sure that our communicators, our 213 Democrats in the House of Representatives, communicate to their districts, and to districts that we do not represent, what we have done, and what we're doing to make their lives better."
He was asked about the shooting at the Nashville school and the President's call for an assault weapons ban.
Hoyer: "It is intolerable, unacceptable and the American people need to be angry. This happens in the United States and hardly any other country in the world. We need to do away with these weapons and these magazines that allow this carnage to occur."
"There ought to be action. Moments of silence are not enough. Are they appropriate? Yes, to mourn those we've lost. But they are not enough to stop it and that's what we need to do."
He was asked to respond to the arrest in Russia of Wall Street Journal reporter Evan Gershkovich.
Hoyer: "Obviously freedom of the press is absolutely essential."
"The Russian people need to know the truth, which is why they want to arrest reporters who tell people--they would not be for this carnage that Putin and his dictatorship has affected and the tragedy and war crimes that are being committed."
He was asked if he was worried the infrastructure investments will add to inflation.
Hoyer: "These investments will grow our economy, grow our revenues, and bring inflation down, as the President's budget and the Inflation Reduction Act is designed to do."
On the debt limit:
"We cannot go over the debt limit. That would be unacceptable. And I hope that every responsible member of Congress, Republican and Democrat understands that." 


March 30, 2023 11:23

In town pool report #3 - lunch lid until 1:30 pm
The White House called a lunch lid until 1:30 pm. 


March 30, 2023 16:03

In town pool report #4 - lid
White House called a lid at 3:53 pm.
Meanwhile, across the National Mall, it's the top of the 9th on Opening Day and Braves are up over the Nats 4 to 2. Go Nats! 


March 30, 2023 16:15

In town pool report #5 - Statement on Biden's meeting with Damar Hamlin
From the White House press office:
Today, the President welcomed Buffalo Bills safety Damar Hamlin and his family to the White House. The President thanked Damar for his courage, resilience, and can-do spirit which has inspired the American people. He commended Damar for his efforts – including through legislation – to bring people together and make life-saving technologies more widely available. In January, the President spoke by phone with Damar's parents during a trip to Cincinnati. 



  