
    Pool Reports by Dustin Gardiner, San Francisco Chronicle 



Sent:
Reports:




March 3, 202311:42 PST

VP travel pool report #1 - wheels down
VP landed around 11:38 a.m. at the executive terminal at the San Francisco International Airport. AF2 landed under sunny skies, it's a crisp 50 degrees. About 50 people were bussed onto the tarmac to greet VP.



March 3, 202312:12 PST

VP travel pool report #2 - airport arrival
VP was greeted on the tarmac by Rep. Kevin Mullin and Lt. Gov. Eleni Kounalakis. After posing for selfies with them, VP crossed the tarmac to greet a cheering crowd of about 50 supporters. She spent 20 minutes greeting the crowd, hugging and taking numerous photos. VP is wearing a charcoal pinstripe suit with a black overcoat.
Motorcade departed for a fundraiser in Hillsborough around 12:07 p.m. Pool traveling in motorcade.



March 3, 202312:58 PST

VP travel pool report #3 - Silicon Valley fundraiser
VP arrived at a Democratic fundraiser in Hillsborough around 12:30 p.m. Pool did not observe much of the event, which was held at the home of Stefanie Roumeliotes and her husband, John Costuros. Harris is expected to deliver brief remarks shortly.



March 3, 202314:08 PST

VP travel pool report #4 - Remarks at fundraiser
Around 1:15 p.m., the VP delivered remarks at a fundraiser in Hillsborough, a wealthy Silicon Valley enclave. About three dozen attendees drank white wine and ate salmon salads in a tent on a back patio. VP was introduced by the Second Gentleman.
Emhoff criticized GOP candidates who deny election results and praised Democrats' successes in the midterm elections. "They are seditionists, people who would tear up our Constitution and overturn free and fair elections. But we pushed back."
The VP spoke for about 17 minutes and thanked donors for their support in 2020 and today: "Over these two years, we have done transformational work, transformational work." She touted the administration's efforts to remove lead pipes across the country. She said Biden's investments to fight climate change would total "over $1 trillion" in the next decade. She spoke about efforts to cap insulin prices, a line that drew applause from several in the room.
The VP also spoke at-length about her recent trip to the Munich conference amid Russia's invasion of Ukraine. She said the administration's work to shore up NATO is crucial as some in America question its existence. "We are on the verge of welcoming Finland and Sweden. Think about where we are."
VP said the admin is standing up for "foundational values" of freedom and reproductive rights. "We know our work is not done. We have much more to do."
"The work we have done over the last two years has reinforced who we are as a country... that is the impact each of you has had."
Additional VP comments: "It is so good to be home... Just flying in over the Bay, it's always nice to go home."
Motorcade now waiting to depart to a roundtable discussion with small business owners in San Francisco.



March 3, 202315:06 PST

VP travel pool report #5 - Arrival at library
VP briefly spoke to the press before hosting a roundtable with business owners in San Francisco's Chinatown. The event was closed press and was expected to focus on entrepreneurship in the AAPI community.
VP praised the contributions of small businesses: "Half of America's work force works for or runs a small business. So we are talking about substantial number of people who benefit the entire economy of our nation."
The roundtable included:

Mayor London Breed (D-San Francisco, CA)
Erika Moritsugu, AA and NHPI Senior Liaison (Moderator)
Apoorv Bhargava, WeaveGrid
Deepa Lounsbury, LabStart
Tane Chan, Wok Shop
Mindy Fong, Jade Chocolate
Kevin Chan, Golden Gate Fortune Cookie
Tony Lau, Co-Owner, K-Elements BBQ
Ron Benitez, Asmbly Hall
Tricia Benitez, Asmbly Hall
Linda Mihara, Paper Tree
Assemblymember Phil Ting (D-San Francisco)
David Chiu, San Francisco City Attorney
Connie Chan, San Francisco Supervisor
Aaron Peskin, President, Board of SF Supervisor

The rest of her day is closed press. Thank you for following along.




  