
    
  STATEMENT OF ADMINISTRATION POLICY

(House)
(Rep. Obey, D-Wisconsin)
The Administration strongly supports House passage of H.R. 4899, making emergency supplemental appropriations for disaster relief and summer jobs for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2010, and for other purposes. This legislation is essential to keeping the Nation prepared for domestic disasters by providing recovery assistance across the Nation for situations ranging from earthquakes and hurricanes to terrorist incidents. It also takes another important step forward in the ongoing effort to help put Americans back to work through the expansion of a youth summer jobs program and offers continued support to America's small businesses, which are the backbone of the American economy.
The Administration would like to take this opportunity to share additional views regarding the Committee's version of the bill.
Federal Emergency Management Agency, Disaster Relief Fund (DRF)
The Administration appreciates the Committee's support for $5.1 billion in supplemental funding for DRF. The additional funding will provide much-needed response and recovery assistance across the country. The 59 disasters and seven emergencies declared in 2009 involved 33 States or territories, and as of March 22, 2010, another 18 disasters and four emergencies have been declared in 16 different States or territories. This supplemental funding will also support the ongoing recovery efforts in the Gulf Coast region in response to Hurricanes Katrina and Rita.
Summer Employment Programs for Youth
The Administration supports the inclusion of $600 million for the Workforce Investment Act youth program for summer employment opportunities for disadvantaged youth. This funding will create hundreds of thousands of jobs and help young people open the door to future opportunities, while enabling them to generate additional income during these difficult economic times.
Small Business Administration (SBA)
The Administration supports the provision providing approximately one month of additional funds to SBA to continue Recovery Act terms that reduce fees and provide higher guarantees on SBA business guaranteed loans. These steps, along with improvements in the overall lending environment, have helped increase credit for small businesses during the economic recovery. The Administration urges the Congress to support the extension of these terms for the remainder of fiscal year 2010.
  