
    HOUSTON, Texas - Presidential Candidate Ted Cruz penned the following op-ed in Politicoin response to President Obama's visit to Castro's Cuba.
See excerpts below and read the full op-ed here.
In Cuba, Obama Will Legitimize the Corrupt and Ignore the OppressedPolitico
Communist Havana has always been a magnet for the radical chic of the left, drawn like moths to the flame of this western outpost of totalitarian Communism. Back in the 1960s, the visitors included Angela Davis and Stokely Carmichael, while Che Guevara himself received Jean-Paul Sartre.
Now this scene will include a president of the United States. On Sunday, President Barack Obama, a retinue of celebrities in tow, is expected to arrive in the Cuban capital to hang out with Raul Castro and his henchmen, all of which will be breathlessly documented by the media mavens along for the ride.
Meanwhile, political prisoners languishing in dungeons across the island will hear this message: Nobody has your back. You're alone with your tormentors. The world has forgotten about you.
....
Until Obama, siding with the oppressed had always been America's aspiration. We have done so not just out of an abiding sense of justice, but also for hard-nosed reasons of national interest. In Cuba the Castros have been the implacable enemies of the United States for more than half a century. It is in our interests to make common cause with the brave souls who oppose them.
Former Soviet political prisoner Natan Sharansky, for example, now a leading Israeli politician and a moral voice, was in the Gulag when President Ronald Reagan called the Soviet Union "the evil empire" in 1983. Afterward he said, "It was the brightest, most glorious day ... our whole block burst out into a kind of loud celebration."
This is why it is so sad, and so injurious to our future as well as Cuba's, that Obama has chosen to legitimize the corrupt and oppressive Castro regime with his presence on the island.
The White House keeps saying that this trip will chart a new course for people-to-people relations, but all that Obama's appeasement of the Castro dictatorship has done so far is create a channel for inside deals between large corporations and the Cuban military, which holds all the keys to the island's economy. The effect will not be liberalization but rather the institutionalization of the Communist dictatorship as the profits from this détente will line the pockets not only of Fidel and Raul Castro, but also of Raul's son, Alejandro Castro Espin.
Corporate cronyism, meet communist totalitarianism.
....
I have news, Mr. President: No progress has taken place. Cuba is going backward.
Over the weekend a makeshift boat was rescued off Marco Island carrying 18 desperate refugees who were willing to risk their lives rather than endure the "progress" in Cuba. Nine had perished on the journey.
The independent Cuban Commission for Human Rights and National Reconciliation says that 1,141 Cubans were detained for political reasons last month alone, following the 1,447 that were detained in January.
So sycophancy is having the effect is always does: It is telling our enemies that they can behave with impunity.
I have a word for the people of Cuba who will witness the gaudy spectacle in Havana this weekend: America has not forgotten you.
I am the son of a Cuban who was beaten and tortured by Batista's regime, and my aunt was likewise brutalized by Castro's thugs. Thankfully, both my father and my Tía Sonia found freedom in the United States.
That freedom can come to Cuba, and I pledge to work to make it so. But it cannot happen by enriching and empowering the dictatorship, while they export terrorism throughout Latin America. And it cannot happen by forgetting the heroism and suffering of the brave souls who have opposed the Castros for so many decades.
  