
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate three individuals to serve in his administration.
The President intends to nominate Charlotte A. Lane to be a Member of the United States International Trade Commission for the remainder of a nine-year term expiring September 16, 2009. Lane is currently a Commissioner on the West Virginia Public Service Commission and served as Chairman of the Commission from 1997 to 2001. Lane was with the Law Firm of Dodson, Riccardi & Lutz in Charleston, West Virginia, from 1990 to 1997. From 1985 to 1989, Lane first served as Commissioner on the West Virginia Public Service Commission. In April and May of 1987, Lane served as Interim United States Attorney in the Southern District of West Virginia, and from 1980 to 1985, she was an attorney with the Law Firm of Jackson & Kelly. Lane served as a Member of the West Virginia House of Delegates from Kanawha County in the years 1979 to 1980, 1984, and 1990 to 1992. Lane is a graduate of Marshall University and West Virginia University College of Law.
The President intends to nominate Carolyn Y. Peoples to be Assistant Secretary of Housing and Urban Development. Peoples is founder and owner of Jeremiah Housing Services, Inc., a nonprofit organization that provides referral and placement services to seniors seeking affordable and suitable housing. Prior to this, Peoples served as director of operations for the housing division of Catholic Charities from 1990 to 1999. Her experience in housing for the elderly spans over 20 years beginning in 1976 as administrator of St. Andrews House, an 180-unit senior housing and supportive services program jointly funded by the Presbytery of Baltimore, Maryland, Office on Aging and the Baltimore City Housing Authority. Peoples received a bachelors degree in finance and a masters degree in business administration from the University of Baltimore.
The President intends to nominate Bruce R. James to be the Public Printer. James was CEO of Barclays Law Publishers until retiring in 1993. Since his retirement, he has gone on to become Vice Chairman of the Board of Trustees of Rochester Institute of Technology and Chairman-elect of Sierra Nevada College at Lake Tahoe, founded Nevada New-Tech, Inc., a company formed to invest in technology-based enterprises that promise to broaden and diversify Nevadas economy. James is the Chairman of the Congressional Roundtable of Printing Industries of America, a trustee of the National Technical Institute for the Deaf, the State Chairman of the United Ways Alexis de Tocqueville Society, and a member of the advisory board of UNLV's Boyd School of Law. James is a graduate of Rochester Institute of Technology.
  