
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

When our ancestors came to America more than 3 centuries ago, they discovered a land of unparalleled beauty and plenty. Cultivating this rich, fertile soil, they built new lives for themselves -- and set down the first roots of a free, strong, and prosperous nation.
The abundance of agricultural goods we enjoy has been vital to our well-being both as individuals and as a people. Free from the dire hunger that has tragically limited the development of some countries, we have been blessed with the ability to produce a wealth of other goods and services. This productivity and prosperity would not be possible without the contributions of our farmers.
The American farmer is the most enterprising, capable, and efficient in the world. Nowhere else does such a small percentage of a nation's population feed so many and so well. Farmers not only provide us with food and fiber, but also play a leading role in protecting our environment. Through the use of innovation soil and water conservation techniques, for example, they are helping to safeguard America's land, lakes, and rivers for future generations. With the aid of authorities in biotechnology, farmers are also helping to develop alternative uses for farm products, such as ethanol and other new fuels and fuel additives.
The success of American agriculture is enjoyed by millions of people around the country and around the globe. Today farmers, ranchers, scientists, merchants, and government officials are working together to produce food and fiber for this Nation and for much of the rest of the world as well.
As they have done for generations, American farmers have prevailed against adversity, meeting every new and familiar challenge with the faith, fortitude, and ingenuity that have always been their hallmark. Last year, net farm income reached a record level. The value of U.S. agricultural exports has increased for a third consecutive year. Because we are committed to ensuring that this trend continues, we are determined to promote the market-oriented farm policies that give producers greater flexibility. We also remain committed to promoting the industry and commerce that enable our farmers to reach and to compete effectively in markets at home and abroad.
Agriculture is one of the pillars upon which our strength and prosperity as a Nation rest. This is worth remembering each day, and especially on National Agriculture Day. Today, we give thanks not only for the bountiful harvests that bring our daily bread, but also for the courageous and industrious men and women who reap them.
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush, President of the United States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim March 20, 1990, as National Agriculture Day. I call upon the people of the United States to observe this day with appropriate programs, ceremonies, and activities.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this twentieth day of March, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fourteenth.
GEORGE BUSH

  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

  