
    GENERAL EISENHOWER held a unique place in America's history, and in its heart, and in the hearts of people the world over.
For a quarter of a century he spoke with a moral authority seldom equaled in American public life. This was not only because he held the Nation's highest military rank and its highest civilian office, but more importantly because of the kind of a man he was. He was a man of great strength, wisdom, and compassion. But it always seemed to me that two qualities stood out above all in both his public and his private life: one was an unwavering sense of duty; the other was that whatever he did, he did because he believed it was right.
The measure of Dwight Eisenhower's place in history is that we have to reach back two centuries, to the first days of our Republic, to find another American who was a citizen, "first in war, first in peace, and first in the hearts of his countrymen."
One key to the character of General Eisenhower was revealed in a message he prepared but never had to deliver. Just before D-Day, he wrote a statement in the event of disaster: "Our landings in the Cherbourg-Havre area have failed to gain a satisfactory foothold and I have withdrawn the troops. My decision to attack at this time and place was based upon the best information available. The troops, the air, and the Navy did all that bravery and devotion to duty could do. If any blame or fault attaches to the attempt it is mine alone."
The landing was successful, and the message filed away. But that was a man ready to take the consequences of decision. That was Eisenhower.
Dwight Eisenhower was selfless. He was devoted to the common cause of humanity, to his beloved country, and to his family and friends. He was both a great man and a good man. To millions the world over, he was a symbol of decency and hope.
As President, I salute him for his services as a soldier, statesman, and peacemaker. As the one who was privileged to serve for 8 years as his Vice President, I pay tribute to him as an inspiring leader and a great teacher. As a person who is proud to have been his friend, and who has happily seen our families united, I join with my fellow Americans in mourning his death and in offering my condolences.
A grateful nation stands in his debt, and those of us who knew him, or who shared this period of history with him, will always warmly cherish his memory.
  