
    Yesterday, during an event at the White House alongside Attorney General Merrick Garland, Deputy Secretary for the Department of Homeland Security John Tien, and Secretary of Education Miguel Cardona, Vice President Kamala Harris announced that Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs) that recently experienced a bomb threat are eligible for grant funds to restore their impacted learning environments, including by enhancing campus security and providing mental health resources. The Vice President made clear that every American should be able to learn, work, worship, and gather without fear, which is why the Administration has made a commitment to keeping communities safe and taking assertive actions to combat hate.
Read more below:
The Root: VP Kamala Harris Announces HBCU Security Grants After Persistent Bomb Threats[Murjani Rawls, 3/17/22]
Historically Black colleges and universities around the United States have been operating under a continuous cycle of hate. Since January of 2022, 36 HBCUs have been targets of bomb threats. On the first day of Black History Month alone, 18 HBCUs had to suspend operations and go on lockdown. Thankfully, there were no devices found, but this is a coordinated attack on the psyche of Black students. […]
In a press conference yesterday, Vice President Kamala Harris announced that historically black colleges and universities would be eligible for grant funding, as reported by ABC News.
The Project School Emergency Response to Violence (SERV) initiative under the Department of Education aims to enhance campus security and offer mental health resources by providing short-term, immediate funding for institutions that have experienced a "violent or traumatic incident."
The Grio: White House steps up support for HBCUs after bomb threats with funding for mental health services, security training[April Ryan, 3/17/2022]
At an event held in the South Court Auditorium on the White House campus, Vice President Kamala Harris, along with Education Secretary Miguel Cardona, Attorney General Merrick Garland, and Deputy Secretary of Homeland Security Deputy John Tien, unveiled new measures the federal government is particularly taking to address the rise of threats against HBCUs.
"Our administration is sending a very clear message this intimidation will not stand and we will not be intimidated. We will do everything in our power to protect all our communities from violence and from hate. We are all in this together and we must stand together," said Vice President Harris.
Watch The Yard: Kamala Harris Announces Resources and Funding for HBCUs That Have Recently Experienced Bomb Threats[3/16/22]
According to the White House, over the last two months more than one-third of Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs) have received bomb threats against their campuses. The Biden administration announced Wednesday that they are working to assist these HBCUs.
On Wednesday during an event at the White House, Vice President Kamala Harris, announced that HBCUs that have experienced these threats are now eligible for grant funding under the Project School Emergency Response to Violence (SERV) program from the Department of Education to enhance campus security and provide mental health resources. […]
"It's very important not only to bring awareness to the threats and what happened, but also put action behind those words. You know [the bomb threats] were very disruptive. They were meant to disrupt the learning environment at Jackson State University and all HBCUs so its very important that we not only dealt with the situation but start to put resources into them so we can start to deal with the impact that those very threats," Jackson State University President Thomas K. Hudson told Watch The Yard.
UPI: Kamala Harris announces aid for HBCUs suffering bomb threats[Sommer Brokaw & Calley Hair, 3/16/22]
Vice President Kamala Harris announced grant funds on Wednesday to aid over a third of historically Black colleges and universities that have had bomb scares since early January, including repeated threats.
Harris, who is a Howard University alumna and first graduate of an HBCU to become the vice president of the United States, delivered the remarks at a White House event on public safety.
"We gather united against violence and against intimidation," Harris said. "Every American should be able to learn, work, worship and gather without fear. It is our duty to do everything we can to protect all our communities. Harm against any one of our communities is a harm against all of us."
Newstitched: Vice President Kamala Harris has a plan to help HBCUs out, who have recently had bomb threats[Fagotthethird Franklin, 3/16/22]
On Wednesday, Madam Vice President Kamala Harris announced a funding plan at an event at the White House, which would help out HBCU''s, who need increased security and a bigger budget with helping students out, who deal with mental health. Recently, there have been schools that had to postpone their learning, because of a bomb threat and the vice president decided enough was enough. The administration put together a funding plan, which was called Project School Emergency Response to Violence (SERV) program and HBCU's who experienced recent bomb threats can apply for the grant. [...]
The vice president finished her speech with telling everyone that unity and love is the way to go.
ABC: Vice President Harris boosts HBCU funding following bomb threats[Kiara Alfonseca & Justin Gomez, 3/16/22]
Vice President Kamala Harris is set to announce that historically Black colleges and universities (HBCUs) will be eligible for new grant funding following a series of bomb threats made against them.
Harris "will make clear that every American should be able to learn, work, worship, and gather without fear," a White House official told ABC News.
NewsOne: HBCUs Could Receive Funding to Recover From Bomb Threats[Ddooleyhbcu, 3/16/222]
Vice President Kamala Harris and the U.S. Department of Education are setting aside resources to historically Black colleges and universities (HBCUs) that have been impacted by the recent slew of bomb threats. The Department of Education announced Wednesday that HBCUs that experienced bomb threats could apply for grant funds and other resources as a part of the Project School Emergency Response to Violence (Project SERV) program.
MSNBC News: HBCUs to receive federal funding in wake of bomb threats[Ja'Han Jones, 3/17/22]
Vice President Kamala Harris, an HBCU graduate, said the initiative will make the funds available through a Department of Education program known as Project School Emergency Response to Violence, or Project SERV. The funds will allow schools to enhance campus security and improve mental health services for students affected by the threats, she said during a news conference Wednesday.
Inside Higher Ed: Federal Funds Announced for HBCUs After Bomb Threats[Sara Weissman, 3/17/22]
Vice President Kamala Harris and the U.S. Department of Education on Wednesday announced that historically Black colleges and universities can apply for grants under the Project School Emergency Response to Violence program, or Project SERV, after these institutions received dozens of bomb threats in the last three months.
The federal program provides immediate short-term funding—typically grants of $50,000 to $150,000—to educational institutions that have experienced violent or traumatic incidents disruptive to learning. Department staff will work with HBCUs to determine if Project SERV funding can address needs related to the bomb threats, such as improvements to campus security or targeted mental health counseling, according to the announcement.
CNN: HBCUs affected by recent bomb threats will be eligible for federal security grants[Nicole Chavez, 3/16/22]
"The recent bomb threats experienced by HBCUs have shaken students and fractured their sense of safety and belonging, which are critical to their academic success and wellbeing," Education Secretary Miguel Cardona said in a statement.
Vice President Kamala Harris is expected to discuss the grants and additional resources for HBCUs on Wednesday, a day after her husband tested positive for Covid-19.
HBCUs are now eligible to apply for funding under the Project School Emergency Response to Violence (Project SERV) program, which provides awards ranging from $50,000 to $150,000 per school, according to the Education Department.
Axios: White House unveils funding for HBCUs after bomb threats[Erin Doherty, 3/16/22]
Driving the news: Vice President Kamala Harris on Wednesday will announce that HBCUs that recently experienced a bomb threat are eligible for grant funds for their "immediate needs," per the White House.

The awards, which will come from the Project School Emergency Response to Violence program, may include "targeted mental health resources or enhanced security, to restore the learning environment on their campuses."
"[Department of Education] staff will work with each HBCU to help determine their specific immediate needs," per the White House.
The grant funds could range from $50,000 to $150,000 per school.
The White House is also unveiling a resource guide for HBCUs from across the federal government "to help with long-term improvements to campus mental health programs, campus safety, and emergency management planning," per the White House.

  