
    Verona, PA - At last night's Cape Girardeau, MO County Lincoln Day Dinner, Congresswoman Jo Ann Emerson announced that she will be supporting Republican Presidential Candidate Rick Santorum in the Missouri Caucus.
Congresswoman Emerson said: "In the 30 years I've known him, I've seen it firsthand: Rick Santorum does what is right. He understands the difficult tasks ahead. And he also understands the greatness of our nation. He can lead. And let me tell you this: Rick Santorum would make a great President."
Emerson went on to say that when she caucuses in Cape Girardeau County next Saturday, she will be caucusing for Rick Santorum.
U.S. Representative Jo Ann Emerson has served in the U.S. House of Representatives for eight-plus terms. She is the first Republican woman to represent Missouri in Congress, where she is a leading advocate for farm families and the promotion of America's agriculture, hunger relief, pro-life issues, and access to safe, affordable prescription drugs. As a member of the Appropriations Committee, Emerson is the Chairman of the Financial Services and General Government Subcommittee and also sits on the Agriculture Subcommittee and Legislative Branch Subcommittee.
In her professional career, Emerson has served as the Senior Vice President of Public Affairs for the American Insurance Association, as Director of State Relations and Grassroots Programs for the small-business oriented National Restaurant Association, and as Deputy Communications Director for the National Republican Congressional Committee.
Currently, Emerson serves as representative to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. She is also an Honorary and Life Trustee of Westminster College in Fulton, Missouri. A former Girl Scout, Emerson is a leading supporter of the organization in Congress. She is co-chair of the Board of Directors for the Congressional Hunger Center. Emerson is also a founding member of the Bipartisan Congressional Retreat, whose mission is to foster better relations in Congress with Members from each party.
As a wife, mother, and grandmother, family is the foremost priority in Emerson's life. She is married to Ron Gladney, an attorney, and is the proud mother of two daughters, Victoria and Katharine, five stepdaughters and one stepson. Emerson is the proud grandmother of three grandchildren. She lives in Cape Girardeau, Missouri.
  