
    The following listing includes the President's daily schedule and other items of general interest as announced by the White House Press Office during the period covered by this issue. Events and announcements printed elsewhere in the issue are not included.
March 11
The President met at the White House with Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs.
The President attended the 93d annual Gridiron dinner at the Capitol Hilton Hotel.
March 13
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Frank B. Moore, Assistant to the President for Congressional Liaison;
—the Cabinet;
—Representative Frank Thompson, Jr., of New Jersey;
—Vice President Walter F. Mondale;
—national officers and the executive committee of the National Association of Wheat Growers;
—Senator Richard S. Schweiker of Pennsylvania.
The visit of Prime Minister Menahem Begin of Israel to the United States has been postponed 1 week. The Prime Minister will meet with the President in Washington March 21-22.
March 14
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Mr. Moore;
—Senator John C. Stennis of Mississippi;
—James T. Mcintyre, Jr., Acting Director of the Office of Management and Budget;
—Adm. Stansfield Turner, Director of Central Intelligence, Hamilton Jordan, Assistant to the President, and Dr. Brzezinski.
March 15
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Mr. Moore;
—Senator Dennis DeConcini of Arizona;
—Boy of the Year Ray Owens, of Austin, Tex., and officers of the Boy's Clubs of America;
—John C. West, U.S. Ambassador to Saudi Arabia;
—Mrs. Carter, for lunch;
—a group of history professors from the University of Georgia;
—Secretary of Housing and Urban Development Patricia Roberts Harris and other Department officials to discuss urban policy;
—Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance, Deputy Secretary of State Warren M. Christopher, and Mr. Jordan;
—Vice President Mondale, Secretary Vance, Dr. Brzezinski, and Mr. Jordan.
At the invitation of the President, Prime Minister James Callaghan of Great Britain will pay a 1-day working visit to the White House on March 23.
Prime Minister Morarji Desai of India has accepted the President's invitation to visit Washington June 13-14, in connection with the Prime Minister's appearance in New York before the 10th Special Session of the United Nations Devoted to Disarmament.
March 16
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Senator Edward Zorinsky of Nebraska;
—Mr. Moore;
—Representative Norman Y. Mineta of California;
—Senators Abraham Ribicoff of Connecticut and John Glenn of Ohio;
—Senators Howard H. Baker, Jr., and James R. Sasser, and Representative Marilyn Lloyd, all of Tennessee;
—Maury Gladman, president of the International Kiwanis Club, and Representative Del Clawson of California;
—John G. Molloy, Irish Ambassador to the United States, who presented the traditional St. Patrick's Day gift of shamrocks;
—1977 Nobel Peace Prize laureate Mairead Corrigan and Representative Don Edwards of California;
—Ambassador Andrew Young, U.S. Representative to the United Nations.
The President is sending Assistant Secretary of State for African Affairs Richard M. Moose as his special emissary to discussions on U.S.-Somali relations and the situation in the Horn of Africa, held in Mogadiscio, Somalia.
March 17
The President left the White House for a trip to North Carolina and Georgia.
  