
    Today, former Senator Jean Carnahan, former Governor Bob Holden, Kansas City Community Leader Gwendolyn Grant, and other leaders across Missouri endorsed Joe Biden for President of the United States.
"Here in Missouri we look to Harry Truman — a man of the people — as a model for public servants. He was always underestimated by the political pundits, but when our nation was in need of strong leadership, he acted wisely and decisively. Fortunately, we have been given another such leader in Joe Biden---a man honed and proven by his years as a public servant; humbled by tragedy; and guided by a lifelong and unshakeable faith. Joe is ready from day one to take on the hard work of restoring confidence in our democracy. His calm and measured approach to problems makes him best able to heal the nation's wounds and restore America's leadership role in the world. For these many reasons, I wholeheartedly announce my support of Joe Biden for President of the United States," said former Senator Jean Carnahan.
"Each new day, I ask myself do we still have a democracy; are we still respected around the world; do we have leaders working on our behalf; are we passing on to our children a better country and world than we inherited? In the eyes of our youth, our elderly, our working families, and our fellow Americans, the answer is no. Joe Biden believes that every citizen should be treated with dignity and respect. Joe Biden is prepared to lead our country on day one. Lori and I wholeheartedly support Joe Biden for President," said former Governor Bob Holden.
"Vice President Joe Biden is the tested leader we need to bring decency back to the White House. Joe knows it's time for equal opportunity, equal rights, and equal justice. From writing the Violence Against Women Act to passing the Affordable Care Act, Joe has always put what's right first, even if it's hard. As president, I know he will continue to fight for Missourians," said Kansas City Community Leader Gwendolyn Grant.
The full list of Missouri leaders endorsing Joe Biden for President today include:

Former U.S. Senator Jean Carnahan
Former Congressman Russ Carnahan
Former Missouri Secretary of State Robin Carnahan
St. Louis Community Leader Tom Carnahan
Former Governor Bob Holden
Former Missouri First Lady Lori Holden
Kansas City Community Leader Gwendolyn Grant

These leaders add to the growing momentum Joe Biden has established in Missouri, which votes on March 10. They join Congressman Emmanuel Cleaver, a former chair of the Congressional Black Caucus, and former Ambassador Kevin O'Malley in supporting Joe Biden.
Biden for President has previously announced more than 1,500 endorsements from national, state, and local leaders, including current and former U.S. senators and representatives, governors, state elected officials, community leaders, and national security professionals.
  