
    "Last week, President Obama was nowhere to be found on Obamacare's second birthday—and who can blame him with the law's billions of dollars in new taxes about to hit the economy? As president, Mitt Romney will repeal this disastrous law and implement a federalist, free-market health care plan in its place."  —Andrea Saul, Romney Campaign Spokesperson
Last Week, President Obama Was Nowhere To Be Found On Obamacare's Second Birthday:
On Obamacare's Second Birthday, "President Obama Said Nothing" And Avoided "A Public Commemoration" Of The Law. "President Obama said nothing about the second anniversary of his signature health-care law on Friday during a Rose Garden event — and has no plans for a public commemoration. But the law's Republican critics couldn't say enough about it, as the Supreme Court prepares to hear arguments over the law next week." (Robert Schroeder, "Obama Mum About Health-Care Law On 2nd Anniversary," Market Watch, 3/23/12)
The Wall Street Journal Headline: "Missing From Obama Health-Care Anniversary: Obama" (Laura Meckler, "Missing From Obama Health-Care Anniversary: Obama," The Wall Street Journal, 3/22/12)
USA Today Headline: "Obama Has No Comment On Health Law's Anniversary" (Richard Wolf, "Obama Has No Comment On Health Law's Anniversary," USA Today, 3/23/12)
But What Is President Obama Hiding From? Maybe It's The Billions Of Dollars In New Taxes Contained In Obamacare:
Obamacare Contained "The Largest Tax Increase Since 1993." "Keep in mind that Mr. Obama has already signed the largest tax increase since 1993. While everyone focuses on the Bush tax rates that expire after 2012, other tax increases are already set to hit the economy thanks to the 2010 Affordable Care Act." (Editorial, "Taxes Upon Taxes Upon...," The Wall Street Journal, 7/11/11)


    Obamacare's Tax Hikes Total "About $438 Billion In Revenue Increases Over The Next Decade." "The U.S. healthcare overhaul that President Barack Obama is expected to sign into law contains about $438 billion in revenue increases over the next decade." (Donna Smith, "Factbox-Major Tax Provisions In U.S. Healthcare Bill," Reuters, 3/22/10)
  

Obamacare Created A 2.3% Excise Tax On Medical Devices, Which Will Cost Businesses $20 Billion. "Also starting in 2013 is a 2.3% excise tax on medical device manufacturers and importers. That's estimated to raise $20 billion." (Editorial, "Taxes Upon Taxes Upon...," The Wall Street Journal, 7/11/11)
Obamacare Increased Medicare Taxes By $210 Billion, Including Applying Medicare Taxes To Investment Income For The First Time In History. "Starting in 2013, the bill adds an additional 0.9% to the 2.9% Medicare tax for singles who earn more than $200,000 and couples making more than $250,000. For first time, the bill also applies Medicare's 2.9% payroll tax rate to investment income, including dividends, interest income and capital gains. Added to the 0.9% payroll surcharge, that means a 3.8-percentage point tax hike on 'the rich.' Oh, and these new taxes aren't indexed for inflation, so many middle-class families will soon be considered rich and pay the surcharge as their incomes rise past $250,000 due to tax-bracket creep. Remember how the Alternative Minimum Tax was supposed to apply only to a handful of millionaires? Taxpayer cost over 10 years: $210 billion." (Editorial, "Taxes Upon Taxes Upon...," The Wall Street Journal, 7/11/11)
And New Taxes Aren't The Only Things President Obama Would Probably Like To Hide About Obamacare:
Obamacare Has Made Health Care "Less Affordable" And Has Caused "Insurance Premiums To Rise." "At the moment, the new law is making health care slightly less affordable. Independent health care experts say the law has caused some insurance premiums to rise. As we wrote in October, the new law has caused about a 1 percent to 3 percent increase in health insurance premiums for employer-sponsored family plans because of requirements for increased benefits. Last year's premium increases cast even more doubt on another promise the president has made - that the health care law would 'lower premiums by up to $2,500 for a typical family per year.'" (D'Angelo Gore, "Promises, Promises," Factcheck.org, 1/4/12)
According To The Nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office, Obamacare Could Cause As Many As 20 Million Americans To Lose Their Employer-Provided Coverage. "A Congressional Budget Office report issued this week says that 3 million to 5 million people could move from employer-based health care plans to government-based programs as the Affordable Care Act takes effect. And in the worst-case scenario, it could be as many as 20 million." (David Nather, "Health Care Reform: 4 Inconvenient Truths," Politico, 3/16/12)
Obamacare Created A New "Bureaucracy With Vast Powers To Control Health Care And Health Markets." "The vehicle is a bill from Tennessee Republican Phil Roe that would repeal the Independent Payment Advisory Board, or IPAB, the new ObamaCare bureaucracy with vast powers to control health care and health markets starting next year." (Editorial, "Independent Payment Advisory Revolt," The Wall Street Journal, 3/9/12)
  