
    "Today we take one more step in putting the jobs, wages, and economic security of American citizens first." – President Donald J. Trump
FROM 8 YEARS OF OBSTRUCTION TO 8 WEEKS OF ACTION: Today, President Donald J. Trump announced TransCanada would receive a Presidential permit to build the Keystone XL pipeline.

Despite complying with every requirement and study, including relocating the route, the Keystone XL pipeline faced eight years of obstruction.

In his first week in office, President Trump signed a Presidential Memorandum to clear roadblocks to construction of the Keystone XL Pipeline.


The Keystone XL pipeline is a $8 billion investment that will move 800,000 barrels of oil per day to Gulf Coast refineries, reducing the United States' dependency on foreign oil.
Constructing the Keystone XL pipeline is expected to support 42,100 jobs across the country for up to two years, 16,100 would be directly related to the project.
The Keystone XL pipeline is expected to contribute approximately $3.4 billion to the United States GDP.
Under the Trump administration, Government bureaucracy is getting out of the way so this $8 billion investment can finally get started.

PARTNERING WITH PRIVATE SECTOR: Today, President Trump joined Charter Communications in announcing their commitment to invest in American jobs.

Charter will be opening a brand new call center in McAllen, Texas, where the company will create 600 new American jobs.
Charter will invest $25 billion in its United States infrastructure.
Over the next four years, Charter will hire 20,000 American workers and is committed to on-shore 100 percent of the foreign call center and technical support roles it inherited from Time Warner Cable.

MAKING JOB CREATION A PRIORITY: President Donald J. Trump is looking out for the American workers who Washington has left behind.

President Trump has worked with the private sector to deliver tens of thousands of new jobs for Americans.
President Trump ordered the United States to withdraw from the Trans-Pacific Partnership agreement and negotiations.
President Trump signed legislation, House Joint Resolution 38, to prevent the burdensome "Stream Protection Rule" from causing further harm to the coal industry.
President Trump ordered the review of the "Clean Water Rule: Definition of Waters of the United States," known as the WOTUS rule, to evaluate whether it is stifling economic growth or job creation.

THE PRESIDENT FULFILLING HIS PROMISE: President Trump promised the American people he would put their interests first.

In his "Contract with the American Voter," President Trump promised he would lift "roadblocks and allow vital energy infrastructure projects, like the Keystone Pipeline, to move forward."
As a candidate, Mr. Trump promised "I am going to bring back the jobs that have been stripped away from you and your country."

  