
    Pool Reports by Erin B. Logan, Los Angeles Times 



Sent:
Reports:




March 8, 202208:52

POTUS In-Town Pool Report #1: Biden announcement at 10:45am EST
Hello, I will be your in-town pooler today.
Please note the morning schedule change—at 10:45 a.m. in the Roosevelt Room, Biden will announces actions to continue to hold Russia accountable for its unprovoked and unjustified war on Ukraine, according to the updated daily guidance. Remarks can likely be watched at https://www.whitehouse.gov/live/.
More later.



March 8, 202210:48

POTUS In-Town Pool Report #2: Biden remarks have not begun
Hello again,
Your pool is still holding in the briefing room. POTUS was scheduled to give remarks in the Roosevelt Room at 10:45am EST. His remarks can be watched here—> https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=riIbml4OyOY



March 8, 202211:13

POTUS In-Town Pool Report #3: Pool waiting in the Roosevelt Room
Hello again,
Your pool just entered the Roosevelt Room. His remarks can be watched here—> https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=riIbml4OyOY



March 8, 202211:24

POTUS In-Town Pool Report #4: POTUS remarks beginning 2 mins
His remarks can be watched here—> https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=riIbml4OyOY



March 8, 202211:26

POTUS In-Town Pool Report #5: POTUS remarks beginning now
Your pool saw POTUS enter the Roosevelt Room at 11:24. His live remarks can be watched here—> https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=riIbml4OyOY



March 8, 202211:39

POTUS In-Town Pool Report #6: POTUS remarks ended
They ran from 11:24-11:37am EST.
Biden took no questions from reporters. Pool is headed to the South Lawn to watch POTUS depart to Joint Base Andrews via Marine 1.



March 8, 202211:58

POTUS In-Town Pool Report #7: POTUS departs from WH
The president emerged from the Oval at 11:51 am EST and walked straight to Marine 1 on the South Lawn after waiving to reporters. He did not respond to shouted questions. He may not have heard them as M1 is quite loud.
He boarded M1 at 11:52 am EST. M1 had wheels up at 11:56 am EST.
In lieu of a daily briefing, Press Secretary Jen Psaki is expected to gaggle with out of town pool on AF1 en route to Texas. POTUS is scheduled to return to the White House tonight at 9:20 PM EST.
From the White House:
Traveling with the President on Marine One to Joint Base Andrews:
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of StaffJen Psaki, Assistant to the President & Press SecretaryCarlyn Reichel, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for Speechwriting & Strategic InitiativesAshley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office OperationsStephen Goepfert, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the President
Handing off to out-of-town pool.



March 8, 202213:11

POTUS In-Town Pool Report #8: Gaggle at 2
From the White House:
The gaggle with Press Secretary Jen Psaki will be at 2:00 PM EST.
You can listen live here —> https://youtu.be/FojAP5wjiBs



March 8, 202221:34

POTUS In-Town Pool Report #9: Biden returns to WH+travel/photo lid 9:32
Marine 1 touched down on the South Lawn at 9:28 and POTUS walked straight to the residence at 9:31 and waved to reporters. He did not take shouted questions from reporters.
The White House called a travel/photo lid at 9:32 pm EST.
Have a wonderful evening.




 
Pool Reports below by Francesca Chambers, McClatchy 



Sent:
Reports:




March 8, 202211:53 EST

Travel Pool Report #1: Background 
Prior to the president's arrival at JBA, VA Secretary Denis McDonough and three Texas lawmakers --- Reps. Allred, Ellzey and Veasey --- came by the press cabin and exchanged pleasantries with reporters.
The president had been scheduled to depart JBA at 11:35 for Fort Worth Texas, but his remarks on Russia that were added to the schedule this morning have him running behind.



March 8, 202212:20 EST

Travel Pool Report #2: POTUS arrival at JBA
President Biden arrived on M1 at JBA at 12:07 pm EDT.
He's in a blue suit and yellow tie -- no coat today. He waved and saluted at the bottom of the stairs but did not come over to talk.
POTUS waved again at the top of the stairs before entering AF1.
Wheels up shortly for Fort Worth. You can listen to the gaggle live on the White House website.
Additional background, via the White House:
Upon arrival at Joint Base Andrews, the President will be greeted by:
Col William "Chris" McDonald, Vice Commander, 89th Airlift Wing
Traveling with the President on Air Force One to Fort Worth, Texas:
Secretary of Veterans Affairs Denis McDonoughRep. Colin Allred (TX-32)Rep. Marc Veasey (TX-33)Rep. Jake Ellzey (TX-06)Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of StaffJen Psaki, Assistant to the President & Press SecretaryCara Abercrombie, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for DefenseAshley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office OperationsStephen Goepfert, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the PresidentTravis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip DirectorCarlyn Reichel, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for Speechwriting & Strategic InitiativesTerri Tanielian, Special Assistant to the President for Veterans AffairsMeghan Hays, Special Assistant to the President & Director of Message PlanningDr. Rachel Ramoni, Chief Research and Development Officer, Department of Veterans Affairs



March 8, 202214:39 CST

Travel Pool Report #3: Texas arrival
President Biden has arrived in Texas.
He deplaned AF1 at 2:26 pm local time.
He shook hands on the tarmac with Parker and Whitley -- see below--- and other greeters before leaving the airport.
Lawmakers and the VA secretary deplaned after Biden, via the front of the plane, and also went down the line of greeters and shook hands.
Then they all posed for a group photo.
While they were taking the picture, POTUS responded to a question about gas prices. Working to get his exact response.
Motorcade left the airport at 2:33 local time.
CNN was playing on the plane during the flight. Press secretary Jen Psaki was the only notable visitor to the press cabin. Her gaggle with press lasted just over 30 minutes and played on the White House website live.
Greeters, per the White House:
Upon arrival at Naval Air Station Joint Reserve Base Fort Worth, the President will be greeted by:
Mayor Mattie Parker, Fort Worth, TXJudge Glen Whitley, Tarrant CountyMaj Gen. Bryan Radliff, Commander, 10th Air Force, Naval Air Station Joint Reserve Base Fort WorthCapt Mark McLean, U.S. Navy Installation (USN) Commanding Officer, Naval Air Station Joint Reserve Base Fort WorthCol Matt Brown, U.S. Marine Corp (USMC), Marine Aircraft Group 41 (MAG41) Commanding Officer, Naval Air Station Joint Reserve Base Fort WorthCol Matt Groves, 136th Airlift Wing Deputy Commander, Texas Air National Guard, Naval Air Station Joint Reserve Base Fort WorthCommand Master Chief Martin "Marty" Roberts, Naval Air Station Joint Reserve Base Fort WorthChief Master Sergeant Jeremy N. Malcom, 10th Air Force, Naval Air Station Joint Reserve Base Fort WorthChief Trey McKinney II, 136th Airlift Wing, Naval Air Station Joint Reserve Base Fort Worth



March 8, 202214:53 CST

Travel Pool Report #4: POTUS tarmac quote
Here's what we've determined POTUS said to the best of our ability after listening to a recording multiple times:
Q: Do you have a message for the American people on gas prices?
"They're going to go up."
Q: What can you do about it?
"Can't do much right now ...Russia is responsible."
Motorcade is on the highway, headed to POTUS' first stop.
A group of protesters was lined up outside the airport with signs that included the following messages: Decertify the fraud, Texas for Trump and Let's Go Brandon.
In response to an emailed question: POTUS' suit is navy and his tie is striped -- yellow and navy.



March 8, 202215:06 CST

Travel Pool Report #5: Fort Worth VA Clinic 
Motorcade arrived at the Fort Worth VA clinic at roughly 2:58 pm local time. Pool has preset inside and is awaiting POTUS at his first stop in the atrium of the clinic.
Background on clinic visit below, via the White House:
Visiting the Fort Worth VA Clinic with the President:
Secretary of Veterans Affairs Denis McDonoughRep. Colin Allred (TX-32)Rep. Marc Veasey (TX-33)Rep. Jake Ellzey (TX-06)Mayor Mattie Parker, Fort Worth, TXJudge Glen Whitley, Tarrant County
Tour Guide: Dr. Stephen Holt, Veterans Affairs North Texas Health Care System Director
Location: Atrium, Fort Worth VA Clinic, Fort Worth, TX
Stop 1: Exoskeleton and iBOT Personal Mobility Device
The exoskeleton allows spinal cord injury patients experience walking and standing. The iBOT Personal Mobility Device enables patients to experience mobility and social interaction at a standing height.
Stop 1 participants:Dr. Bridget Bennett, Chief of the VANTHCS Spinal Cord Injury CenterJoshua Geering, SCI Therapy Lead Therapist, Spinal Cord Injury/Disabilities Center in Dallas, TXJohn Caruso, a veteran who has used the exoskeleton
Stop 2: Post 9/11 Military VA Case Management Program
Stop 2 participants:Deborah Cheatham, Social Work Specialty Section Chief, Veteran Affairs of North Texas Health Care System, and Program Manager for the Post-9/11 Military2VA (M2VA) Case Management programRetired Sgt. Manuel Alejandro Ortiz, Veteran, Infantry Solider, U.S. Army, 101st Airborne DivisionDr. David Carmichael, U.S. Army Veteran who has received cancer treatment and is in the burn victim registry



March 8, 202215:40 CST

Travel Pool Report #6: Color from the clinic 
President Biden entered the atrium at 3:09 pm local time. Everyone is wearing a mask inside, and POTUS was hard to hear.
Lawmakers and VA secretary spoke with veterans while they were waiting for him to arrive.
Biden greeted a veteran named John, who was seated in a wheelchair, asking him, "How are you?"
"Good to see you man, let me say hi to you," Biden said, walking over to shake John's hand.
Bennett explained to the president that the exoskeleton device the veteran was wearing is FDA approved.
She said one of the most frequently asked questions is about the ability to walk again after spinal injuries.
"Of course some will naturally recover" while others will not, she said.
Biden was asked if he wanted to see a demonstration.
John tightened the exoskelton and stood up with the assistance of Geering.
"Without this device, John wouldn't be able to take steps," Geering said.
John walked with Geering's assistance across the room as POTUS looked on.
At the end of rhe demonstration, the room erupted in clapping
Biden asked when he was fitted for it.
John said he has been using the device for weekly therapy and walking in it since 2014. He said it's not his, he borrows it from the VA.
He told the man that this type of tech should be available at all vets and he would try.
John told him, "Maybe."
Biden insisted he would.
Biden viewed a second piece of technology, a power wheel chair, which had an off road feature and elevates.
"For a vet that's a big deal, to be face to face," Geering said.
Biden asked questions about the device.
"What does one of these cost?" Biden asked.
Geering told him around $30k. Said they have to be prescribed by professionals, then it is available to the veterans.
"It's not a large device, so you can fit it in your house," Geering said. "It's wonderful."
Biden said, "Well that's great."
Biden said that the technological advancements are "going to change things."
Before he walked to another area in the room he clasped John's shoulder and told him," Thank you....Thank you for your service."
POTUS then walked to another area where he was largely out of earshot of press.
Press was led out of the atrium at 3:27pm. Motorcade departed the clinic at 3:36 pm.
It arrived at the next stop at 3:39 pm.



March 8, 202216:06 CST

Travel Pool Report #7: Tarrant County event color/POTUS remarks begin 
President Biden began his remarks at 4:04 local time.
POTUS' remarks are in what appears to be a gymnasium at the Resource Connection of Tarrant County that is covered in blue pipe and drape and has more than a dozen American flags. New POTUS slogan is on large signage in the backdrop: "BUILDING A BETTER AMERICA."
Whitley made introductory remarks at the top of the event. Rep Veasey spoke next. Ellzey spoke after him.
"There's a lot that's not right in our country and our world today. These are difficult times. These are scary times ...At the end of the day, we don't put an R or D in front of veteran," Ellzey, the sole Republican lawmaker traveling with Biden, said.
Ellzey noted that he spent 20 years in the military and is a veteran himself.
Allred gave remarks next. He said this work is "personal' to President Biden. He spoke about burn pot legislation the House passed recently, which he called on the Senate to pass also.
McDonough spoke next.
President Biden did not appear to be in the room for those remarks. He entered to Hail to the Chief later.
Event began live streaming at the beginning of the VA secretary's remarks. Will send additional color from the event as warranted.
One add from the ride over to the Tarrant County event: Another group of demonstrators were spotted outside as the motorcade was about to turn into the second event.
A red sign with white lettering said: "FREE TREVOR REED PRISONER OF RUSSIA SINCE 2019"
The sign also had a picture of what appeared to be Trevor Reed on it. Words Trevor Reed were underlined. A second sign was exactly the same except it was white with Black lettering.



March 8, 202216:11 CST

Travel Pool Repot #8: Event Background/Additional Remarks Color 
President Biden while speaking at the top of his event mentioned Ellzey and his service as a fighter pilot.
"You can smile Jake," Biden said the laughter from the room.
Biden added, "Jake's a Republican, but I like the hell out of him."
More laughter.
"No, I'm serious, he's the real deal," the president added.
BACKGROUND FROM THE WHITE HOUSE
Attending the President's remarks are approximately 150 guests, including local elected officials from the Fort Worth City Council and Tarrant County Commissioners Court, community leaders, and members of veterans and military family advocacy organizations.
Program:Marine Aircraft Group 41 Color Guard presents the colorsFirst Cavalry Division Army Band plays the National AnthemJudge Glen Whitley, Tarrant County Commissioners CourtRep. Marc Veasey (TX-33)Rep. Colin Allred (TX-32)Rep. Jake Ellzey (TX-06)Secretary of Veterans Affairs Denis McDonoughFirst Cavalry Division Army BandCouncilmember Elizabeth Beck, Fort Worth City Council District 9, and veteran who deployed as a Sergeant to Taji, Iraq in support of Operation Iraqi Freedom



March 8, 202216:30 CST

Travel Pool Report #9: event over 
POTUS remarks ended at 4:26 pm local time.
Pool is holding in the gymnasium while attendees of the president's remarks trickle out of the event.



March 8, 202216:43 CST

Travel Pool Report #10: photo line 
Pool is still holding in the gymnasium, where a military band is serenading guests as they depart.
From the White House:
Participating in a photo line with the President:
Rep. Marc Veasey (TX-33)Rep. Jake Ellzey (TX-06)Rep. Colin Allred (TX-32)Judge Glen Whitley, Tarrant County Commissioners CourtJudge Clay Jenkins, Dallas County Commissioners CourtMayor Mattie Parker, Fort Worth, TXMayor Jim Ross, Arlington, TXState Senator Royce West (SD-23)State Senator Beverly Powell (SD-10)State Representative Chris Turner (HD-101)State Representative Nicole Collier (HD-95)



March 8, 202217:29 CST

Travel Pool Report #11: Departing event/Poland plane statement 
White House passes along the following statement from the Department of Defense:
Please see the below statement provided by Pentagon Press Secretary John F. Kirby on Security Assistance to Ukraine:
"We are now in contact with the Polish government following the statement issued today. As we have said, the decision about whether to transfer Polish-owned planes to Ukraine is ultimately one for the Polish government. We will continue consulting with our Allies and partners about our ongoing security assistance to Ukraine, because, in fact, Poland's proposal shows just some of the complexities this issue presents. The prospect of fighter jets "at the disposal of the Government of the United States of America" departing from a U.S./NATO base in Germany to fly into airspace that is contested with Russia over Ukraine raises serious concerns for the entire NATO alliance. It is simply not clear to us that there is a substantive rationale for it. We will continue to consult with Poland and our other NATO allies about this issue and the difficult logistical challenges it presents, but we do not believe Poland's proposal is a tenable one."
Motorcade departed the event at 5:22 pm.
Spotted in the background of the president's event among military flags and American flags: a Space Force flag.
H/T co-pooler Eli Stokols, who has been an invaluable help today across two time zones.



March 8, 202217:50 CST

Travel Pool Report #12: Back at the airport 
Motorcade arrived at the airfield at 5:45 pm local time.
President Biden boarded AF1 at 5:48 pm. He waved at top of the stairs as press pulled up in vans. We should be wheels up shortly.
As the motorcade drove back into the airport entrance in Fort Worth, the same group of protesters from this afternoon were spotted. In addition to the earlier signs, pool spotted one that said "F**k Biden" except without the asterisks. Demonstrators also shouted "Let's Go Brandon" at the motorcade.



March 8, 202221:07 EST

Travel Pool Report #13: wheels down at JBA
AF1 touched down at JBA at 9:04 pm EDT after taking off from Fort Worth at 5:58 CST.
No visitors to the press cabin during the flight.



March 8, 202221:17 EST

Travel Pool Report #14: Back at JBA 
The president deplaned at 9:13 pm. He shook a hand at the bottom of the stairs. It was hard to see in the dark.
He's on M1 now, which is about to take off. Handing off to in-town pool.
ALSO: White House shared the following.....
From a White House official:
After his event in Fort Worth, the President called Joey and Paula Reed to reiterate his commitment to doing everything he can to bring their son home, to staying in close touch with them through his national security team, and to finding a time to meet in person



March 8, 202221:20 EST

Travel Pool Report #15: greeters 
I spoke too soon. White House shares the following on the greeters at JBA.
Upon arrival to Joint Base Andrews, the President will be greeted by:
Col William "Chris" McDonald, Vice Commander, 89th Airlift Wing
Traveling with the President on Marine One to the White House:
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of StaffJen Psaki, Assistant to the President & Press SecretaryCara Abercrombie, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for Defense at the NSC
Ashley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office OperationsStephen Goepfert, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the President




  