
    "Rick Santorum recently has been criticizing politicians who go to Washington and fail to stand on principle. But last month, Senator Santorum went before the country and admitted that he put principle aside to 'take one for the team' in Washington. Voters in Wisconsin and across the country have longer memories than he apparently gives them credit for." —Ryan Williams, Romney Campaign Spokesman
Senator Santorum Has Recently Doubled Down On Criticizing Politicians Who Refuse To Stand Up For Their Principles:
Last Night, Santorum Castigated Politicians For "Compromising On Their Principles" In The Name Of "Trying To Get A Deal Done, Trying To Pass A Piece Of Legislation." SANTORUM: "A lot of Tea Partiers, a lot of conservatives talk tough. They go out and castigate members of Congress and elected officials for compromising on their principles, for not doing what they say they were going to do. For trying just to get a deal done, trying to pass a piece of legislation and therefore sacrifice and walk away from their principles in order to win." (Rick Santorum, Remarks in Janesville, WI, 3/27/12)

Watch Video Of Santorum's Remarks Here

This Past Weekend, Santorum Said People Are "Sick And Tired Of Politicians Going To Washington, D.C. And Not Standing Up For Their Principles." SANTORUM: "How many times have you said you're sick and tired of politicians going to Washington, D.C. and not standing up for their principles? How many times have you said that in the last umpteen years?" (Rick Santorum, Remarks in Milwaukee, WI, 3/24/12)
Perhaps Senator Santorum Has Forgotten That He Admitted To Voting "Against The Principles I Believed In" Because "Sometimes You Take One For The Team":
Santorum: "It Was Against The Principles I Believed In, But ... Sometimes You Take One For The Team." SANTORUM: "I supported No Child Left Behind. ... I have to admit, I voted for that. It was against the principles I believed in, but, you know, when you're part of the team, sometimes you take one for the team, for the leader, and I made a mistake. You know, politics is a team sport, folks." (GOP Presidential Debate, 2/22/12)


    The New York Times: "For A Presidential Candidate, It Was A Curious — And Unusual — Acknowledgement Of Politics Trumping Values." "Mr. Santorum just offered up what may be the evening's most wince-inducing moment: he declared that he had voted for President George W. Bush's No Child Left Behind education law even though 'it was my against my principles.' For a presidential candidate, it was a curious — and unusual — acknowledgement of politics trumping values." (Michael Barbaro, "A Negative Ad In The Making?" The New York Times, 2/22/12)
  



    The Washington Examiner: "It Was An Easy Opportunity For Any Of The Candidates To Paint Santorum As An Establishment Republican And A Washington Insider." "When asked about education reform and the 'No Child Left Behind' act, Rick Santorum admitted that he voted for the Bush legislation even though he didn't agree with it. ... It was an easy opportunity for any of the candidates to paint Santorum as an establishment Republican and a Washington insider." (Charlie Spiering, "Santorum Blows It: 'I Took One For The Team,'" The Washington Examiner, 2/22/12)
  



    National Journal: Santorum Sounded "Like The Ultimate Washington Insider." "For more than a year, Rick Santorum has labored to cast himself as an outsider ready to go to Washington to challenge business as usual, which makes it all the more puzzling why he decided to use the crucial debate in Mesa to sound like the ultimate Washington insider. ... Perhaps his worst moment was his attempt to explain why he voted for No Child Left Behind even though he opposed it. There were echoes of John Kerry's 'I voted for it before I voted against it' only without Kerry's coherence." (George E. Condon Jr., "Santorum Sounds Like Ultimate Washington Insider in Debate," National Journal, 2/22/12)
  

Roll Call Headline, 2004: "For Santorum, 'Team' Is First." (Paul Kane, "For Santorum, 'Team' Is First," Roll Call, 5/11/04)
  