
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate four individuals and designate two individuals to serve in his administration:
The President intends to nominate David Garman, of Virginia, to be Under Secretary of Energy. Mr. Garman currently serves as Assistant Secretary for Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy. Prior to joining the Administration in 2001, he worked in the United States Senate for 21 years. Mr. Garman served in a variety of positions, including Chief of Staff to Senator Frank H. Murkowski and Professional Staff Member on the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources. He received his bachelor's degree from Duke University and his master's degree from Johns Hopkins University.
The Present intends to nominate Christopher R. Hill, of Rhode Island, to be an Assistant Secretary of State (East Asian and Pacific Affairs). He is a career foreign service officer, currently serving as U.S. Ambassador to the Republic of Korea. Previously, he served as Ambassador to Poland. Prior to that appointment, Ambassador Hill was Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for Southeast European Affairs for the National Security Council at the White House. Earlier in his career, he served as Ambassador to the Republic of Macedonia and Special Envoy for Kosovo. Prior to joining the Foreign Service, Ambassador Hill served as a Peace Corps volunteer in Cameroon. He received his bachelor's degree from Bowdoin College and his master's degree from the Naval War College.
The President intends to nominate Anthony Joseph Principi, of California, to be a Member of the Defense Base Closure and Realignment Commission. Upon confirmation, the President will designate him Chairman. Mr. Principi currently serves as Vice President of the Pfizer Corporation. He recently served as Secretary of Veterans Affairs. Prior to joining the Administration, he was president of QTC Medical Services, Inc. Earlier in his career, Mr. Principi served in the United States Senate as Republican chief counsel and staff director of the Committee on Veterans' Affairs and as counsel to the chairman of the Committee on Armed Services. A combat-decorated Vietnam veteran, he first saw active duty aboard the destroyer USS Joseph P. Kennedy, and later served with the River Patrol Force on the Mekong Delta. Mr. Principi graduated from the United States Naval Academy and later received his J.D. from Seton Hall University.
The President intends to nominate Rudolph E. Boschwitz, of Minnesota, for the Rank of Ambassador during his service as Representative of the United States of America on the Human Rights Commission of the Economic and Social Council of the United Nations.
The President intends to designate E. Timothy Oppelt, of Ohio, to be Acting Assistant Administrator (Research and Development) at the Environmental Protection Agency.
  