
    By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
Abundant, readily available, reliable supplies of energy at reasonable prices have fueled industrial growth in the United States since our country began. A continued supply of such energy is essential to the Nation's future security and to the wellbeing of our citizens. But the apparent abundance that we enjoy today should not tempt us to a dangerous complacency.
The nature of current energy supplies and the need to provide energy to meet the needs of an expanding economy require us to pursue an enlightened energy policy supported by an informed electorate. Energy education programs in our Nation's schools help to equip future generations of Americans to make wise choices that will shape our economic destiny for years to come.
National Energy Education Day helps bring into focus the energy needs of our Nation and our local communities. It prompts teachers, students, school officials, and private citizens to work together to alert the next generation of Americans to their opportunities and responsibilities. It is appropriate that all Americans, and particularly our educators, take steps to recognize the importance of maintaining and developing adequate sources of energy far into the future.
The Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 205, has designated Friday, March 21, 1986, as "National Energy Education Day" and authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this occasion.
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim Friday, March 21, 1986, as National Energy Education Day, and I call upon the people of the United States to observe this day with appropriate programs and activities to promote energy education programs in America's schools.
In Witness Whereof I have hereunto set my hand this 21st day of March, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-six, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and tenth.
RONALD REAGAN
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 11:50 a.m., March 24, 1986]
  