
    WASHINGTON, DC – Today, President Obama nominated Raymond Lohier, Jr. to the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit and Judge Kate O'Malley to the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. Lohier currently serves as an Assistant United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York; O'Malley currently serves as a U.S. District Judge for the Northern District of Ohio.
"Raymond Lohier and Kate O'Malley will both bring an unwavering commitment to fairness and judicial integrity to the federal bench," President Obama said. "Their impressive legal careers are a testament to the kind of thoughtful and diligent judges they will be on the Second and Federal Circuits. I am honored to nominate them both today."
Raymond Joseph Lohier, Jr.: Nominee for the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit
Raymond Lohier is an Assistant United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York. He currently serves as Chief of the Southern District of New York's Securities and Commodities Fraud Task Force, which investigates and prosecutes some of the highest-profile offenses on Wall Street including securities fraud, insider trading, ponzi schemes, and commodities fraud. Lohier was deputy chief of the Task Force until 2009 and prior to that served as chief and deputy chief of the Office's Narcotics Unit.
Prior to joining the U.S. Attorney's Office in 2000, Lohier spent three years as a Senior Trial Attorney at the U.S. Department of Justice, Civil Rights Division. From 1993 to 1997, he was in private practice as an associate attorney at Cleary, Gottlieb, Steen & Hamilon in New York. Lohier was also a clerk to Judge Robert P. Patterson, Jr., in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York.
Lohier graduated cum laude from Harvard College in 1988. He received his J.D. from New York University School of Law in 1991, where he was Editor in Chief of the Annual Survey of American Law and recipient of the Vanderbilt Medal.
Judge Kate O'Malley: Nominee for the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit
Judge Kathleen McDonald O'Malley has served as a U.S. District Judge for the Northern District of Ohio since 1994. Judge O'Malley also regularly teaches patent litigation at Case Western Reserve University School of Law as Distinguished Visiting Jurist.
Prior to her appointment to the District Court, Judge O'Malley was First Assistant Attorney General and Chief of Staff to then-Ohio Attorney General Lee Fisher. In that role, she supervised all litigation for the State of Ohio and counseled senior government officers on legal questions. Until 1991, she was in private practice in Cleveland at Porter, Wright, Morris & Arthur LLP and at Jones Day. After law school, she clerked for the Honorable Nathaniel R. Jones on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit.
On the District Court, Judge O'Malley has handled numerous intellectual property cases, including while sitting by designation with the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit.
The United States Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation has called on Judge O'Malley to preside over several complex nationwide matters.
Judge O'Malley graduated from Kenyon College in 1979 (Phi Beta Kappa) and Case Western Reserve University School of Law in 1982 (Order of the Coif).
  