
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate three individuals and appoint nine individuals to serve in his Administration.
The President intends to nominate Barbara McConnell Barrett, of Arizona, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Finland. Mrs. Barrett currently serves as CEO of Triple Creek Ranch. Prior to this, she served as Deputy Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration. Earlier in her career, she served as Vice Chairman of the United States Civil Aeronautics Board. Mrs. Barrett received her bachelor's degree, master's degree and JD from Arizona State University.
The President intends to nominate David R. Hill, of Missouri, to be Assistant Administrator (General Counsel) at the Environmental Protection Agency. Mr. Hill currently serves as General Counsel at the Department of Energy. Prior to this, he served as Deputy General Counsel for Energy Policy at the Department of Energy. Earlier in his career, he served as a Partner at Wiley, Rein & Fielding. Mr. Hill received his bachelor's degree from the University of Missouri and his JD from Northwestern University.
The President intends to nominate T. Vance McMahan, of Texas, to be Representative of the United States of America on the Economic and Social Council of the United Nations, with the rank of Ambassador. Mr. McMahan currently serves as Founder and Principal of TVM Consulting. Previously he served as Deputy Assistant to the President and Director of the Office of Strategic Initiatives at the White House. Prior to this, he served as Director of Policy for then Governor George W. Bush of Texas. Earlier in his career, he served as an attorney at Andrews Kurth, LLP. Mr. McMahan received his bachelor's degree from Stanford University and his JD from the University of Texas.
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the Community Development Advisory Board:
Darlene Bramon, of Idaho, (Officer of a National Consumer or Public Institution Organization), for the remainder of a four-year term expiring 11/27/11;
William Bynum, of Mississippi, (Community Development Financial Institution Representative), for the remainder of a four-year term expiring 11/27/11;
J. French Hill, of Arkansas, (Insured Depository Institution Representative), for the remainder of a four-year term expiring 10/16/11;
Farah M. Jimenez, of Pennsylvania, (Community Development Representative), for the remainder of a four-year term expiring 10/16/11;
Nancy J. Leake, of Arkansas, (Expert in Community Development), for a four-year term beginning 06/13/08;
Terri Ludwig of Illinois, (Insured Depository Institution Representative), for the remainder of a four-year term expiring 11/27/11.
Neal A. McCaleb, of Oklahoma, (Native American Tribal Representative), for the remainder of a four-year term expiring 11/27/11;
L. Raymond Moncrief, of Kentucky, (Community Development Financial Institutions Representative), for the remainder of a four-year term expiring 10/16/11;
Edwin A. Rodriguez, of Florida, (Officer of a National Consumer or Public Institution Organization), for the remainder of a four-year term expiring 10/16/11.
  