
    This story first appeared in 1600 Daily, the White House's evening newsletter. Subscribe now... to get breaking news from President Trump before anyone else.
"I want all Americans to understand," President Trump wrote on Twitter this afternoon. "We are at war with an invisible enemy, but that enemy is no match for the spirit and resolve of the American people."
He's right. Thanks to the dedication of our doctors, nurses, and scientists...as well as the love, patriotism, and determination of our citizens...no country is better prepared to meet this challenge than America. No nation on Earth will emerge stronger and more united than ours.
The Federal Government is leaving no stone unturned in its unprecedented response. Today, the President announced more groundbreaking steps to slow the spread of the virus and help every American community brave the storm:

The Defense Department will massively expand medical resources, making 5 million respirator masks and 2,000 ventilators available for use
FEMA is now activated in every region of the country and at the highest level
The Department of Housing & Urban Development will be suspending foreclosures and evictions until the end of April
Health & Human Services will also suspend foreclosures and evictions
Navy hospital ships are being deployed to impacted areas
America and Canada will halt all non-essential travel across their border

President Trump held a phone meeting today with 130 CEOs to hear directly what they need to respond to this crisis. Defeating this virus will take a historic partnership between our public and private sectors. The Trump Administration is leading that charge.
History has shown that our nation always rises to the occasion when staring down uncertain and trying times. The American people are proving that once again now...and the President couldn't be prouder, Vice President Mike Pence wrote in USA Today.
"In the weeks ahead, President Trump and this administration will continue to take strong action to protect the American people, and we will continue to build on the partnerships that we've forged with state and local governments, as well as with the scientific and business communities," he said.
"But for all of these important steps, there is no substitute for the action of the American people."
President Trump: More resources will be mobilized
MUST READ: "VP: We need the American people's help to fight coronavirus now"
 
Health experts: Social distancing works!
 


 Play 
 1:00
What Is Social Distancing? 

 	
  What Is Social Distancing? 
This week, President Trump issued a national call to action: Use the next 15 days to slow the spread of Coronavirus and protect our most vulnerable citizens from illness.
Many of the common-sense steps he outlined are simple, such as washing your hands regularly, avoiding large gatherings, and working from home if possible. But as health experts explain, small actions by each of us can lead to a massive collective impact.
Social distancing, for example, is one of the most important actions every American can take. Dr. Deborah Birx, the Administration's Coronavirus Response Coordinator, says that social distancing is "what we refer to when we ask people to stay six feet apart."
Why six feet apart? Because scientific evidence shows "that's how far your droplets can go when you sneeze or cough," Dr. Birx says.
Surgeon General: Why Millennials should take Coronavirus seriously
SUBSCRIBE NOW
1600 Daily is the White House's evening newsletter. Subscribe now to get breaking news from President Trump before anyone else.SIGN UP
  