
    Santorum's Delegate Debacle Proves Costly In More Ways Than One
A Round-Up Of Headlines And Media Coverage Of The Santorum Campaign's Delegate Debacle In Ohio:
ABC News: "Rick Santorum's Ohio Delegate Problems Pile Up" (ABCNews.com, 3/2/12)


    Santorum "Is At Risk Of Forfeiting More Than One-Quarter Of" Ohio's Delegates. "Even if Rick Santorum wins Ohio on Super Tuesday, he won't be able to claim all of its delegates. In fact, he is at risk of forfeiting more than one-quarter of them." (Michael Falcone, "Rick Santorum's Ohio Delegate Problems Pile Up," ABCNews.com, 3/2/12)
  

The Associated Press: "Full Ohio Delegate Slate Out Of Reach For Santorum" (The Associated Press, 3/2/12)


    "Santorum Failed To File A Full Complement Of Delegates..." "Santorum failed to file a full complement of delegates in six additional districts, said central committee member Bob Bennett. The holes add up to another nine delegates, for a total of 18 out of the 63 up for grabs." (Julie Carr Smyth, "Full Ohio Delegate Slate Out Of Reach For Santorum," The Associated Press, 3/2/12)
  

Politico: "Report: Santorum Could Be Ineligible For 18 Ohio Delegates" (Politico, 3/3/12)
Cleveland Plain Dealer: "Rick Santorum Faces Bigger Ohio Problem Than Previously Known" (Cleveland Plain Dealer, 3/2/12)


    Santorum "Was Already Known As Starting From A Deficit, Delegate-Wise, In Ohio." "Rick Santorum was already known as starting from a deficit, delegate-wise, in Ohio. He failed to qualify for any district delegates in three Ohio congressional districts because he didn't turn in delegate names there." (Steven Koff, "Rick Santorum Faces Bigger Ohio Problem Than Previously Known," Cleveland Plain Dealer, 3/2/12)
  

Columbus Dispatch: "Delegate Snag Trips Santorum" (Columbus Dispatch, 3/3/12)


    Santorum Is "At A Disadvantage Not Just In Ohio, But Also In Virginia..." "Santorum heads into the hunt for Super Tuesday's 419 delegates at a disadvantage not just in Ohio, but also in Virginia, where he failed to qualify for the ballot and has no chance of winning that state's 49 delegates." (Joe Hallett, Joe Vardon and Darrel Rowland, "Delegate Snag Trips Santorum," Columbus Dispatch, 3/3/12)
  

CNN: "Santorum Ineligible For Some Ohio Delegates" (CNN.com, 3/3/12)
National Journal: "Santorum Could Be Ineligible For 18 Ohio District Delegates — Report" (National Journal, 3/2/12)


    "A Potentially Ominous Super Tuesday Setback For Rick Santorum..." "In a potentially ominous Super Tuesday setback for Rick Santorum, a campaign filing mishap in Ohio could leave him ineligible to be awarded 18 Buckeye State district delegates — more than a quarter of the total at stake there, ABC News reported Friday." (Sarah Boxer and Rebecca Kaplan, "Santorum Could Be Ineligible For 18 Ohio District Delegates," National Journal, 3/2/12)
  

ABC News: "Why Rick Santorum's Ohio Delegate Fiasco Could Get Messy" (ABCNews.com, 3/3/12)
Cleveland Plain Dealer: "Ballot Flub May Hurt Rick Santorum In Ohio" (Cleveland Plain Dealer, 3/3/12)


    "The Blunder ... Could Be Costly For [Santorum]." "The blunder, perhaps a sign of the choppy campaign organization Santorum had late last year when he was still a long shot, could be costly for the candidate who since has established himself as a consensus alternative to Mitt Romney. Santorum could be ineligible for up to 18 of Ohio's 66 delegates, 63 of whom are up for grabs next week." (Henry J. Gomez, "Ballot Flub May Hurt Rick Santorum In Ohio; Race Tightens In New Poll," Cleveland Plain Dealer, 3/3/12)
  

  