
    A new Franklin & Marshall poll shows Gov. John Kasich surging in Pennsylvania and is now statistically tied for first with Donald Trump.
Donald Trump: 33%
John Kasich: 30%
Ted Cruz: 20%
Pittsburgh Tribune-Review
Ohio Gov. John Kasich has come from nowhere in the polls to make Pennsylvania's presidential race for the Republican nomination a toss-up between him and billionaire businessman Donald Trump, a survey released Thursday showed.
"People are starting to hear my message," said Kasich, a McKees Rocks native, in a phone interview with the Tribune-Review while campaigning in Wisconsin...
Kasich's biggest problem has been getting noticed in a crowded GOP field that once included 17 candidates.
As recently as January, just 3 percent of Pennsylvania Republicans supported Kasich, placing him in a distant seventh place, the poll showed. By February, he moved into third place with support from 15 percent of Pennsylvania Republicans.
"There is no doubt this is a huge rise," said pollster G. Terry Madonna, director of Franklin & Marshall's Center for Politics and Public Affairs, which conducted the poll of 828 registered voters.
"Given the nature of the Republican vote in this state, which is more conservative to moderate, I'm not surprised," Madonna said.
Philly.com
Ohio Gov. John Kasich is swiftly closing in on Donald Trump in the April 26Pennsylvania primary election for the Republican presidential nomination, a new poll shows.
The Franklin and Marshall College Poll being released Thursday shows Kasich with 30 percent of the support among likely Republican voters while Trump is at 33 percent and U.S. Sen. Ted Cruz of Texas is at 20 percent.
Kasich is a Pennsylvania native, raised in McKees Rocks, near Pittsburgh...
"Kasich has closed the gap considerably," pollster G. Terry Madonna said...
Kasich is picking up support from major Republicans donors in Pennsylvania who had backed U.S. Sen. Marco Rubio and former Gov. Jeb Bush, two Floridians who have dropped out of the race.
  