
    Today, New Jersey Members of Congress Bill Pascrell, Jr., Donald Norcross, Josh Gottheimer, and Mikie Sherrill joined together to announce their endorsement of Joe Biden for President of the United States. They released the following statements:
"The Democratic Party has been blessed with an incredible field of qualified candidates who would make Americans proud as our chief executive," said Congressman Pascrell. "Defeating Donald Trump and replacing his inept and corrupt government is our highest priority. I believe the candidate who can best win in November, deliver victories up and down the ballot, and fight for expansion of our health care, reversing climate change, and rebuilding our middle class is my friend Joe Biden. Over the years, Joe and I have worked closely on many issues, including providing federal resources for our firefighters and police officers and supporting our mass transit systems and Amtrak. Joe is the experienced leader we need to bring our fractured country together, restore our leadership around the globe, and deliver the change Americans want. He's got my support."
"America needs a president with the integrity, experience and strength to unite our diverse nation while fighting for progressive Democratic priorities," said Congressman Norcross. "Former Vice President Joe Biden exemplifies those values, and he's always stood up for working families in New Jersey and across the country. I am proud to call Joe a friend, and I can't wait to call him President of the United States."
"I am proud to support and endorse Joe Biden because now, more than ever, we need a president who is focused on solving problems and has the proven ability to get things done," said Congressman Gottheimer. "As President, Joe Biden will unite Americans across the political spectrum to take on our toughest challenges and achieve our common goals. Throughout a lifetime of public service, including his many years in the Senate and his service in the White House, Joe Biden has worked to bridge our partisan divide, finding ways we can all work together to build a stronger future for all of our families. A tireless fighter for our shared values, Joe Biden has always stepped up for his country and he is the right candidate to now lead us and move our nation forward."
"Vice President Biden is a life-long public servant who has shown time and again that he understands what is at the heart of America," said Congresswoman Sherrill. "His compassion and his understanding of the needs of working families have always defined him. I believe that he will deliver a stronger, more prosperous future for the country and, importantly, for New Jersey's families. New Jersey needs an experienced leader who will focus on the priorities that matter to us: lowering the cost of healthcare, implementing a fairer tax system, and investing in our nation's critical infrastructure needs. Joe Biden has done this his entire life. He knows what is at stake, and I'm proud to stand with him."
Biden leads the field in congressional endorsements with support from more than 80 U.S. Representatives and 14 U.S. Senators, including the most endorsements from members of both the Congressional Black Caucus and the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. Nationally, Biden for President has previously announced more than 2,100 endorsements from national, state, and local leaders, including current and former U.S. senators and representatives, governors, state elected officials, community leaders, and national security professionals.
  