
    Today, Senator Kamala Harris received the endorsements of Representative Pat Henegan, Senator Darrell Jackson, Representative JA Moore, Berkeley County Democratic Party Chair Melissa Watson, and former candidate for Governor and Florence attorney Marguerite Willis. All five of leaders will serve as co-chairs for Senator Kamala Harris' South Carolina campaign.
"I'm honored these leaders have joined our campaign in the Palmetto State to build an economy that works for everyone, including raising the salaries of South Carolina teachers," said Kamala Harris. "I am committed to organizing and campaigning in every corner of the state and I'm proud our co-chairs reflect the diversity of South Carolina Democrats."
Representative Pat Henegan, a retired educator who represents District 54 in the Pee Dee and a fellow soror in Alpha Kappa Alpha, Inc., said, "As a former educator I'm proud to stand by Kamala Harris who has proposed the greatest federal investment in teacher pay in our nation's history. I'm excited to work to make her the next President of the United States."
"In South Carolina, educational inequality is the foundation of economic inequality," said Senator Darrell Jackson, "I'm endorsing Kamala Harris because she has proposed a groundbreaking plan that would finally treat teachers with the respect they deserve. Her plan specifically addresses the needs of teachers working in economically disenfranchised schools where kids need increased support and attention. I'm proud to stand by her as we fight to make sure every child receives an education that can set them on the path to achieving the American dream." Jackson is the Senior Pastor of Bible Way Church of Atlas Road, one of the largest African American churches in South Carolina in addition to representing District 21 in the Midlands.
Representative JA Moore, a progressive leader representing District 15 in South Carolina's Lowcountry who lost his sister to gun violence in the 2015 Mother Emanuel AME Church Shooting, said "Kamala Harris is a visionary leader with the history and expertise to address issues of gun violence, racially motivated hatred, and the unique challenges minorities and women face here in South Carolina and across our country. She has consistently shown through her campaign a commitment to progressive policies. She supports closing loopholes for gun purchases, fighting for the rights and pay of teachers, and reforming our broken criminal justice system. I know Senator Harris is the best person to represent Americans who truly believe in 'liberty and justice for all.' "
"Kamala Harris' plan to treat teachers like the professionals they are is key to my endorsement of her candidacy," said Melissa Watson, chair of the Berkeley County Democratic Party and public school teacher. "She has placed working people at the center of her campaign and I'm confident that she will do just that as President."
"I'm excited to endorse Kamala Harris for President," said Marguerite Willis, a Florence attorney who has been an outspoken leader on equal pay for women, President of the South Carolina Women Lawyers Association, and a 2018 candidate for Governor as part of the historic wave of women running for office. "She is the candidate willing to speak truth to power and stand up for South Carolinians, particularly our teachers and our elderly, who desperately need her help on the federal level."
  