
    Today, former North Carolina Congressman Heath Shuler released the following statement endorsing Joe Biden for the President of the United States:
"Today, I am proud to endorse Joe Biden for President. Joe not only has what it takes to beat Donald Trump, but he has a track record of getting things done. On day one, Joe will restore our place on the world stage and bring much needed dignity and leadership back to the Oval Office. There has never been a more critical time to unify our country. Through his time in the Senate and his time as Vice President to President Obama, Joe Biden has proven that he can work across the aisle to make real change."
Congressman Heath Shuler represented North Carolina's 11th Congressional District from 2007 to 2013. Prior to serving in Congress, Shuler played quarterback in the National Football League from 1994-1999. A superstar for the University of Tennessee Volunteers, Shuler was the runner up for the Heisman Trophy in 1993. In between his football career and his tenure in Congress, Shuler started a successful real estate business.
Joe Biden has the support of all three Democratic U.S. House members in North Carolina — Congressman G. K. Butterfield, Congresswoman Alma Adams, and Congressman David Price. Biden has more endorsements in the Tar Heel State than any other Democratic candidate, which includes the support of 25 current and former elected officials in North Carolina, including mayors, state lawmakers, city, and county officials, candidates for office, and local activists. Earlier this month, Biden received the endorsement of Anthony Foxx, former Secretary of Transportation and mayor of Charlotte, and Paul Lowe, Chair of the North Carolina Legislative Black Caucus.
Biden for President has previously announced more than 1,400 endorsements from national, state, and local leaders, including current and former U.S. senators and representatives, governors, state elected officials, community leaders, and national security professionals.
  