
    Pool Reports by Jada Yuan, The Washington Post 



Sent:
Reports:




March 8, 202212:50 MST

FLOTUS pool #1 - departure, Day 2 in AZ 
Hello from sunny Tucson, where Dr. Jill Biden stayed overnight after our flight from Phoenix.
I'll be your print pooler for the day.
This is part of a three-day, post State of the Union trip designed to highlight the President's "unity agenda" and Build Back Better plan. FLOTUS was in Phoenix yesterday, will stay in Tucson again tonight, and will go on to Reno, NV, and Fort Campbell, KY, tomorrow (to speak to military families who have service members deployed to assist NATO efforts in Europe during the war in Ukraine) before heading back late to the White House.
After being covid tested, the pool left from our hotel, a lovely resort surrounded by an array of gorgeous cacti -- including many saguaros that loomed over us like multi-limbed giants -- at 12:09pm.
All times in reports will be Mountain Standard.
It is a 30 minute drive to San Xavier Health Center. It's a health center for the Tohono O'odham Nation that has a partnership with the University of Arizona cancer center to work on closing disparities within the tribal community.
She will be joined by Xavier Becerra, Secretary of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. They'll start with a briefing with members of the U of A cancer center and those that lead the San Xavier Health Center, give a brief statement about the administration's Cancer Moonshot Initiative, get a tour, and attend a traditional dance performance by Tohono O'odham members. (Your pooler is very excited about this.)
Below is the daily guidance her office sent out earlier. Background from WH to come. Scheduled arrival at 1pm.
DAILY GUIDANCE FOR THE FIRST LADY FOR TUESDAY, MARCH 8, 2022
First Lady Jill Biden will travel to Tucson, Arizona to promote the President's policy priorities, highlighted in his State of the Union address, for Building a Better America. This trip will focus on uniting Americans around issues like ending cancer as we know it.
At 1:00 PM MT, the First Lady and the Secretary of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Xavier Becerra, will visit the San Xavier Health Center in the San Xavier District of the Tohono O'odham Nation, as part of the Biden-Harris Administration's Cancer Moonshot initiative. Their tour will focus on Tohono O'odham Nation's cancer program and services, including those provided in partnership with the University of Arizona Cancer Center. Then, the First Lady and Secretary Becerra will tour the San Xavier del Bac Mission and attend a traditional dance performance by Tohono O'odham members. Portions of this event will be pooled press with limited capacity and registration is closed.
At 3:30 PM MT, the First Lady and Secretary Becerra will participate in a local celebration of Women's History Month with Mayor Regina Romero and several local residents. This event will be open press. For interested media, please RSVP HERE [whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com]by Tuesday 3/8 at 8:00 AM MT.



March 8, 202213:57 MST

FLOTUS pool #2 - arrival to tribal medical center 
Pool arrived at the San Xavier Health Center on the Tohono O'odham Nation at 12:46pm. It's a large two-story Spanish / Moorish-inspired white stucco building with red terracotta roof tiles, and a glorious single palm tree out front. It's surrounded by a desert landscape filled with brush, some cacti, and a few trees that look like they'd love some more water, with power lines and reddish-purple mountains in the background.
An array of 15-20 members of local press are gathered outside the front entrance. Female and male tribal members in suits, some with turquoise necklaces, are awaiting her. One male elder in a tan shirt and tan ranch hat with decorative green, orange, and red trim is holding a piece of burning sage in a wooden bowl.
There was a ceremonial "running" when she arrived at 1:27pm. About four tribal members known as "spiritual runners" ran in front of the cars and they pulled in. It's a traditional blessing.
Following that, FLOTUS greeted the 6 tribal members waiting for her. FLOTUS hugged one man warmly.
Then Vice Chairman Jerry Carlyle (in the tan shirt and hat), offered a prayer and did blessing, first in his native language and then in English.
Dr. Biden asked the other greeters to gather in a semi circle. She's in a pink dress covered in a floral design and wearing a light pink mask with an embroidered flower and beige heels.
Carlyle is holding up what looks like a brown and white eagle feather above his head. He used it to blow sage snow around her. During the portion where Carlyle did the blessing and took off his hat, the press was instructed to stop recording. He mentioned "thank you for this beautiful day" and "first responders" in his blessing. Dr. Biden bowed her head with her hands together in a prayer position and thanked him.
Pool was moved at 1:31pm to another location outside in back of the center.
Ten more greeters are standing outside a blue bus that says "vaccination center" and a truck that says " zoos Movemos Por Ti, We are your mobile access."
FLOTUS arrived at 1:37pm. About 50 members of the community are standing behind the press watching and shooting on their phones. They clapped an cheered when she arrived.
Dr. Biden asked she press if we could hear and then asked the group to move closer to us.
BACKGROUND FROM THE FIRST LADY'S OFFICE
Today, the First Lady and Xavier Becerra, the Secretary of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), will tour the Tohono O'odham Nation's San Xavier Health Center (SXHC), a primary care outpatient clinic, as part of the Biden Administration's Cancer Moonshot initiative. The SXHC is in the San Xavier District of the Tohono O'odham Nation's reservation.
The First Lady's motorcade will be met by two Cultural Runners and escorted onto Tohono O'odham Nation. This is a high honor bestowed to distinguished guests of the Nation. The Runners, in leading the pilgrimage, will cleanse and purify the road the participants traveled on and help make the journey a success for everyone. The First Lady and the Secretary will be welcomed by Tohono O'odham Nation leadership, including with a traditional blessing.
The tour will focus on Tohono O'odham Nation's cancer program and services, including those provided in partnership with the University of Arizona Cancer Center (UACC). UACC is a National Cancer Institute (NCI)-Designated Cancer Center in Tucson. The First Lady and the Secretary will tour the SXHC with Veronica Geronimo, Chief Executive Officer of Tohono O'odham Nation Health Care. After that, they will proceed into the courtyard to meet and hear from health care leaders from Tohono O'odham Nation and the UACC.
At the first stop outside, they will learn about the Tohono O'odham Nation's health care system, its San Xavier Health Center, and the tribe's cancer program and services. They will also learn about the University of Arizona Cancer Center (UACC) and its partnerships with tribal communities across the region and state.
Briefing the First Lady at stop 1

Ms. Veronica Geronimo, Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Tohono O'odham Nation Health Care
Dr. Tara Chico-Jarillo, Interim Executive Director, Tohono O'odham Nation Department of Health & Human Services
Ms. Ann Garcia, Program Coordinator, Tohono O'odham Nation's Cancer Prevention Program
Dr. Joann Sweasy, Director, University of Arizona Cancer Center

At the second stop outside, they will learn about the UACC's Partnership for Native American Cancer Prevention (NACP) program and how the Nation and UACC are in the process of launching a Cancer Moonshot partnership, designed to improve patient navigation services and increase colorectal cancer screening rates.
Briefing the First Lady at stop 2

Mr. Miguel Flores, Community Advisory Board Member, University of Arizona's Native American Research and Training Center, and Member of the Tohono O'odham Nation
Dr. Jennifer Hatcher, Associate Director, Community Outreach and Engagement, University of Arizona Cancer Center
Dr. Francine Gachupin, Assistant Director, Cancer Disparities Institute, University of Arizona Cancer Center

The First Lady and the Secretary will then proceed to the San Xavier del Bac Mission for a tour and attend a traditional dance performance by Tohono O'odham members. They will arrive at the San Xavier del Bac Mission and greet with the following individuals before proceeding inside for a tour:

Father Bill Minkel, Pastor, San Xavier del Bac Mission
Ms. Wavalene Saunders, Vice Chairwoman of the Tohono O'odham Nation

The San Xavier del Bac Mission is an active Roman Catholic Parish in the Diocese of Tucson, located in the Tohono O'odham Nation's San Xavier District. A National Historic Landmark, the San Xavier Mission was founded as a Catholic mission by Father Eusebio Kino in 1692. The oldest intact European structure in Arizona, the church's interior is filled with marvelous original statuary and mural paintings.
The First Lady and the Secretary will then proceed to the courtyard to observe a cultural dance. Wavelene Saunders will introduce The Wa:k Tab Hu'a Ne'edam kc Keihindam (San Xavier Basket Singers and Dancers).
The Wa;k Tab Hu'a Ne'edam kc Keihindam (San Xavier Basket Singers and Dancers) is an all-female group that honors the O'odham weavers. Tohono O'odham are among the largest weavers in the world. The dance group consists of all ages, ranging from 5 to 65 years old, who love sharing their culture with others. The group has been in existence for 25 years and continues to promote cultural language, dance, and songs.
At her final stop in Tucson, the First Lady will attend an International Women's Day event in the backyard at the home of Mayor Regina Romero, where she will highlight the importance of Latina voices during Women's History Month.



March 8, 202215:10 MST

FLOTUS pool #3 - meeting with medical center reps 
KEY QUOTES FLOTUS
"This isn't my first visit to the tribal nations, I've been doing this for a couple of years... And I want to say, you know, the whole moonshot started -- I trying to remember what it was.You know, it's really personal for me and Joe. As you know, we lost our son to cancer. And so one of the things is Joe and I decided to do was find purpose in that law. And it's something that I think our son would want us to do. So Joe is totally committed to this."
" I've been traveling the last couple months all across America, to look at what's new in cancer in research, to look at rural programs, to look at programs in the cities. And of course, I come here and look at programs for Native Americans. My purpose in being here is to create awareness, which you're saying it's so important. But I also want to restate Joe's commitment to end cancer as we know it. And so I hope that this brings people hope, because that's why I'm here. So thank you to the press for being here and covering this, because you will be the ones that will disseminate all this information to people who need it. So I want to thank you for being here today. Thank you."
THE REST
Between the first setup and the second, Dr. B was doing a very quick tour of the center. She emerged at 1:37pm.
There are signs for Cancer Moonshot and Building a Better America, as well as the Arizona American Indian Colorectal Screening Consortium Sites.
Despite FLOTUS's best efforts, pool can barely hear anything.
She's learning about the UACC's Partnership for Native American Cancer Prevention and a Cancer Moonshot partnership they want to launch to increase screenings for colon cancer.
Speaking to a Dr. Jennifer Hatcher, who said she worked in Arizona on Cancer Moonshot, FLOTUS clapped and said "Yay!"
(Dr. Jennifer Hatcher, Associate Director, Community Outreach and Engagement, University of Arizona Cancer Center)
After Dr. Hatcher spoke, FLOTUS asked questions:
"Since the numbers are coming down in the pandemic, have you seen more people coming in to get screened?"
"So, in this clinic you can get a colonoscopy?" (No was the answer, there's nowhere on the nation to get one, but you can get referred off-Nation.)
Another female greeter told her, "Cancer is very important to me. I lost my mom and older brother before her." FLOTUS nodded silently.
The greeter talked about educating youth about cancer.
"How do you create awareness among the youth? Do you go into high schools, community colleges?"
"Actually we do all of that," said the greeter.
"Good!" said Biden.
Another woman talked about disparities in renal cancer in the Hispanic community and added that she's from near Philadelphia.
FLOTUS clapped and reached out her arms. "I don't detect any Philly accent. I forgive you!" she said.
"It sounds like you're doing a great job because you're getting out to the rural areas and you're reaching people," she said.
Secretary Becarra jumped in, then Chairman Ned Norris Jr., then FLOTUS (remarks above). Becarra answered questions briefly at the end.
More on this in next report.
Pool was moved at 2:29pm. Driving to church for dance ceremony.



March 8, 202215:57 MST

FLOTUS pool #4 - More from meeting with medical center reps 
Still in Tucson at the Tohono O'odham Nation
This is a continuation of report #3 from FLOTUS's meeting with medical center reps.
EXTRA FLOTUS REMARKS
This came before the set of remarks in pool report #3. She was responding to one of the cancer center speakers.
"This [Cancer Moonshot] really started back in the Obama-Biden administration."
She said this was a continuation.
"Joe and I never stopped becaus, like you said, this is personal. And I'm sure that everybody here in the press has had some someone in their family. or a friend, who has had cancer. It touches us all. So it's a bipartisan issue. We have to work together."
"You're doing a great job because you're getting out into the rural areas and you're reaching people. And that's what we need. So really incredible. I mean, really, it's inspiring."
Becerra gave a speech to the crowd. I have Otter (fairly unclear) if you need it.
BECERRA QUOTES
"It should be clear to folks it's no accident that Dr. Jill Biden is here, because all of these trips are so organized in advance. I think it's a statement about what Dr. Biden is trying to communicate, but also President Biden, about how we're not going to leave anyone behind."
"The president, he was very clear the State of the Union. We believe that if we're going to do a Cancer Moonshot, everyone should be on board that ship.
"The President, I think is the first president to actually propose that for Indian Health Services, that we have mandatory funding, not discretionary, which means you won't have to fight tooth and nail every time in Congress to get the money. Like every other health service, you'll be able to know that when the need is there, it [the help] will be there. You don't have to go plead for something that you need, right?"
"You deserve it!" said FLOTUS.
"We thank Dr Biden for making the trip here because she could have gone anywhere," said Becerra.
Becerra: "The first lady could be anywhere she wants. And she is here. So I believe it's a statement about not just the importance of the center, and of the work that's being done, Mr. Chairman, by you and all the folks that are leading tribal nation here on the Tohono O'odham Nation here. But it also I think, is a testament to what the President the First Lady's values are. You know, as, as an educator, I think you know, that it's not just what you say, it's what you do."
CHAIRMAN NATE NORRIS JR. spoke next.
He reminded everyone of the blessing from the beginning of the visit, asked for guidance for Jill Biden and Joe Biden, but for the spirits to "also watch out for the folks dealing with war."
He asked for "a moment of silence for our families, our brothers and sisters, our fellow human beings who are being displaces by that war in Ukraine."
He explained that the Tohono O'odham Nation is 2.8 million acres, with 60 communities, 28 in Mexico.
"It's no question that our efforts to address cancer in our community is a challenge."
He introduced Becerra, who is the first Latino to head up HHS.
BECERRA spoke again (the first time was extemporaneous). He thanked Biden for coming.
"She decided to walk all the way to this part of Arizona."
Biden laughed. Then she gave the remarks in pool report #3.
There were a few questions from the press, all directed to Chairman Norris.
Then BECERRA took questions one more time.
"There is a lot of noise in politics today," he said. "But I think when you saw the President talk about reinstituting the Cancer Moonshot, there was bipartisan support on the floor of the House of Representatives. I was there. I saw it, I heard it. I hope that that's what we will see moving forward when it comes to the actual implementation of the policy. But you're right we've got to put our money where our mouth is and Congress holds the purse. So we'll see how much we put our money where our mouth is. I think the President can and he's working diligently to not only get the budget through, but to make sure that we're able to really launch because it takes it a major effort."
NEXT REPORT ON CHURCH AND DANCE



March 8, 202216:00 MST

FLOTUS pool #5 - church and dance performance p 
FLOTUS arrived to church at 2:38pm, another 20Tribal members were standing at a distance and cheered when they saw her.
The San Xavier del Bac Misson is a huge, whitewashed Spanish Mission church with an incredibly elaborate, gilded interior and a prominent crucifix when you enter. See pictures, it's impressive.
FLOTUS stood outside for a minute and met with Father Bill Minkel who is in a black hooded robe with a rope belt.
"Oh this is amazing. It's beautiful!" FLOTUS said when she entered. "Isn't it beautiful," she asked the press.
He told her about the history and current use of the church.
"Father, may we ask you to say a prayer for the people of Ukraine," she asked.
His prayer called on civic leaders to come to a peaceful resolution.
At 2:51pm, pool was moved outside, past many rows of Virgin Mary candles, to the courtyard where it looks like 7 women and girl dancers in blue, turquoise, yellow, red, white, pink and tan tunics and skiers are waiting.
"Hello, happy Tuesday!" Said FLOTUS.
Three women are playing percussive instruments and singing. The dancers are holding circular woven baskets that they raise over their head as they step to time with the music, either together in a row as they move toward Dr. B, or as they stand in a circle. This honors the Tohono's proud tradition of basket weaving.
Everyone is masked except for the singers.
Dance ended at 3:05pm. Pool was pulled as FLOTUS went over to say hello to the dancers."
As press waited in the vans, at 3:14pm, pool heard secret service say that FLOTUS wanted to go talk to a large group of school kids gathered in front of the motorcade. Pool did not get to follow.
BACKGROUND PREVIOUSLY SENT
The First Lady and the Secretary will then proceed to the San Xavier del Bac Mission for a tour and attend a traditional dance performance by Tohono O'odham members. They will arrive at the San Xavier del Bac Mission and greet with the following individuals before proceeding inside for a tour:

Father Bill Minkel, Pastor, San Xavier del Bac Mission
Ms. Wavalene Saunders, Vice Chairwoman of the Tohono O'odham Nation

The San Xavier del Bac Mission is an active Roman Catholic Parish in the Diocese of Tucson, located in the Tohono O'odham Nation's San Xavier District. A National Historic Landmark, the San Xavier Mission was founded as a Catholic mission by Father Eusebio Kino in 1692. The oldest intact European structure in Arizona, the church's interior is filled with marvelous original statuary and mural paintings.
The First Lady and the Secretary will then proceed to the courtyard to observe a cultural dance. Wavelene Saunders will introduce The Wa:k Tab Hu'a Ne'edam kc Keihindam (San Xavier Basket Singers and Dancers).
The Wa;k Tab Hu'a Ne'edam kc Keihindam (San Xavier Basket Singers and Dancers) is an all-female group that honors the O'odham weavers. Tohono O'odham are among the largest weavers in the world. The dance group consists of all ages, ranging from 5 to 65 years old, who love sharing their culture with others. The group has been in existence for 25 years and continues to promote cultural language, dance, and songs.



March 8, 202216:58 MST

FLOTUS pool #6 - International Women's Day event in Tucson 
Oh, re poll report #5, there was a big hill by the church with a giant white cross on it.
Pool left the church on Tohono O'odham Nation at 3:14pm -- after FLOTUS's unscheduled meeting with a group of school kids -- to head to an International Women's Day event in the backyard of the home of Mayor Regina Romero. The purpose is to highlight the importance of Latino voices during Women's History Month.
Mayor Romero is the first Latina mayor of Tucson.
KEY QUOTES FROM FLOTUS: 
"I'm thinking about the women in Ukraine fighting to keep their country safe, and those holding their children, you know, holding them close as they flee to safety. And we've all seen the pictures and I'm sure you are. just like I am -- you're mothers and you can see what they're going through, and your hearts go out to each and every one of them. And I'm thinking of the brave women of Russia who have risked their safety to speak out against the invasion.
"Women have never been silent. But women have been silenced, with violence, with discrimination, and with isolation, and it's work and care that is never done."
She spoke of the charlas she held for Latinas over the past several years. "I've been told that in the past their voices weren't heard. And not because they haven't spoken up!"
"Latinas have shaped our nation since its very beginning, but their contributions have not always been celebrated as they should be. It's time that our country do more to listen, to lift up the voices, your voices, that have so much to say."
"There can be no American history without Latina history, and there can be no American history without women's stories."
____________________________________
Motorcade arrived at a suburban area in the hills at 3:44pm and hoofed it to the mayor's house, where about 50 nonprofit leaders and community members, plus city council members are gathered on the mayor's large brick-laid patio. Four American flags and three Arizona flags are arranged near the fence by the pool. The mayor's home is a large, high ceilinged, gray stucco, adobe-style house with flat ceilings. There's a wooden gate with the metal letters "RR" on it, for her initials.
FLOTUS walked in with the mayor at 3:50pm to big cheers and a chorus of "We love you."
The mayor started by welcoming Dr. Biden "to our home" and recognizing that they were on land stewarded "from time immemorial by the Tohono O'odham Nation."
MAYOR'S SPEECH
"To have Dr. Biden here with us on International Women's is an incredible, incredible way to spend Women's Day and I'm so inspired, I am so inspired and I have been excited since we first learned that the First Lady was coming to Tucson and chose Tucson to spend International Women's Day with us."
"Together we can imagine a world that is gender equal, free of bias, stereotypes and discrimination -- a world that is diverse, equitable and inclusive, and where we can reach across our differences to value and celebrate each other, our humanity and our value as humans."
"I am the proud daughter of immigrant farmworkers. My parents were farmers all of their lives. They taught us the value of family, of our community, of a good education and to be part of finding solutions to the problems in our community. They taught me the value and respect nature, hard work, honesty, most importantly, having a good sense of humor and enjoying life."
The mayor said children were present to meet FLOTUS. And that there were many women who represented "firsts" in the crowd.
"First lesbian councilmember in the city of Tucson, the first attorney in a family, the first to vote in a family, the first to graduate from college. The first, the first, the first, the first, including Dr. Biden, the first of our nation's first ladies to hold a doctorate of Education." LOUD CHEERS. "Who continued to work in a community college serving students as our first lady. The first."
BECERRA NEXT
Secretary Becerra called Mayor Romero "one of the best mayors in America." Loud cheers from the crowd.
"Having grown up with a powerful mother, two sisters, married to a woman, now having three daughters, most of my staff is female, I understand where to go to move and shake for las mujeres."
He said the administration wants to focus on maternal health. They've gotten five to seven states to join them.
Right now for women with low income, on Medicaid, we provide 60 days of post-partum care. They want states to get them and extend that post-partum care for 12 months.
(I have more of this in an Otter if you need it.)
"We have a president who's committed to that, and the best part about having a president who is committed to that is he makes sure the first lady makes it clear to the rest of the nation that he is committed to that."
"Jill Biden is like getting a twofer for president because you get the power of the presidency with the voice, experience, and I believe, the real dedication of a Dr. Jill Biden."
"The most powerful woman in America - and maybe the vice president would challenge me on that -- but the most powerful woman in America came here to here to Tucson to celebrate International Women's Day."
"What an experience to meet the first lady when you're still in your teens," he told the kids in the crowd.
"Remember it was the first lady who made sure you were not the last."
Dr. Biden started speaking at 4:05pm 
"Happy women's day!" she said, to cheers.
SEE QUOTES ABOVE
"I can't wait to meet you all and to shake your hands "
Mayor told the first lady to stay at the lectern. She said she'd gone to the White House to meet Biden and other Latina mayors at the start of the year..
"I'll never forget that you opened the White House to us. And as you opened the White House to us, I opened my home to you."
"Let's be organized about taking pictures with Dr. Biden," the mayor told the crowd.
Speeches ended at 4:11pm and Biden started meeting attendees and taking pictures with them.
Pool was on the other side of a literal swimming pool and observed from afar.
We rolled out at 4:26pm.



March 8, 202217:41 MST

FLOTUS poll #7 - arrival back at the hotel 
Our sunny, culturally enriching day in Tucson has come to an end.
FLOTUS arrived back at the hotel -- the very nice, yellow-stucco resort, Westward Look Wyndam Grand Resort & Spa -- after an uneventful drive filled with Tucson's great scenery. Really, the saguaro cacti (and the sunsets!) here are incredible. Recommend for a getaway.
Pool also recommends Tacos Juanitos, which was recommended to us by the advance team. Excellent, delicious everything.
We'll see you back in this space tomorrow for the third day of the trip. FLOTUS leaves for Reno in the morning, where she will visit Truckee Meadows Community College to hear about their job training program. Then it's off to Fort Campbell, KY, home of the 101st Airborne Division where she will meet with families of the soldiers deployed to support the U.S.'s NATO Allies during the war in Ukraine.
Pool would also like to note that both Jill Biden and President Biden mentioned Beau today.
That's a lid. Hang out in the sun and enjoy some prickly pear fruit.




  