
    Today, Members of Congress Gregory Meeks, Bobby Rush, Stacey Plaskett, Lucy McBath, Scott Peters, Max Rose, Pete Aguilar, Nita Lowey, and Juan Vargas, all of whom had previously endorsed Michael Bloomberg, issued the following statement endorsing Joe Biden for President of the United States:
"Today we are proud to endorse Joe Biden for President of the United States. Joe Biden is what our nation needs right now. He is a leader who can unify Americans in our shared values and common aspirations.
"We need a leader who serves with empathy and a moral compass that will galvanize the best in all of us as we tackle tough issues and look to strengthen our fractured global credibility. A leader that doesn't just talk about inequality and the wealth gap, but has worked on solutions. That's Joe Biden.
"Joe Biden has demonstrated his ability to build coalitions and get results when it matters most. His campaign is doing exactly that right now.
"Our nation cannot afford four more years of the chaos and failed leadership of the Trump administration. Too much is at stake for our democracy and common good. Joe Biden will bring us back from the brink and unite us behind policies and a shared vision that will advance our great nation and ensure that we elect more Democrats to Congress and down the ballot."
The full list of endorsers today includes:

New York Congressman Gregory Meeks
Illinois Congressman Bobby Rush
U.S. Virgin Islands Congresswoman Stacey Plaskett
Georgia Congresswoman Lucy McBath
California Congressman Scott Peters
New York Congressman Max Rose
California Congressman Pete Aguilar
New York Congresswoman Nita Lowey
California Congressman Juan Vargas

Biden leads the field in congressional endorsements with support from more than 90 U.S. Representatives and 14 U.S. Senators, including the most endorsements from members of both the Congressional Black Caucus and the Congressional Hispanic Caucus.
Biden for President has announced more than 2,100 endorsements from national, state and local leaders, including current and former U.S. senators and representatives, governors, state elected officials, and community leaders.
  