
    
March 10, 2016
The reviews are in, and Marco shined at Thursday's CNN debate in Miami. 
Here was how Marco concluded the night:

The Twitter reaction:
Marco is having a strong night tonight.
— Ari Fleischer (@AriFleischer) March 11, 2016
Rubio wins, Cruz did well, Kasich was Kasich, and Trump's vacuousness would be the story in any other year. This is not any other year.
— Jon Ralston (@RalstonReports) March 11, 2016
.@MarcoRubio is having a great second half.
Standing for principle is more popular than bipartisanship among Republican voters. #GOPDebate
— Frank Luntz (@FrankLuntz) March 11, 2016
Rubio with a clear and decisive win. At least it makes the next few days interesting.
— Stuart Rothenberg (@StuPolitics) March 11, 2016
. @marcorubio really delivered a strong performance tonight. very strong.
— toddstarnes (@toddstarnes) March 11, 2016
Wonderful closing statement by @marcorubio. Florida Republicans: Marco needs you to vote early or vote next Tuesday!! #GOPDebate
— Carlos Curbelo (@carloslcurbelo) March 11, 2016
Some of Marco's best moments: on Cuba, on Israel, on veterans, on Social Security, and on what motivates him.
Reviews were incredibly positive:

And conservative bloggers and activists say Marco did a stunningly good job, too:
Red State: "Rubio was smart, snappy, and contained Trump without really insulting him."
Rubio got off virtually every memorable line of the night, including "I don't care about being politically correct, I just want to be correct on this issue." He also embarrassingly exposed Trump's lack of basic knowledge about foreign policy, especially with respect to Cuba. Rubio was smart, snappy, and contained Trump without really insulting him.
Erick Erickson: "Marco Rubio really had the best debate."
Marco Rubio really had the best debate of anyone on that debate stage. His answers on Cuba, Islam, Global Warming, etc. were just so solid...Rubio's answer on Cuba might have won him Florida. His performance was outstanding.
The Washington Post: Marco was "poised, confident and knowledgeable."
The Florida Senator was poised, confident and knowledgeable...Rubio deserves credit for performing extremely well when the chips were down.
Ed Morrissey of Hot Air: "He needed to hit a home run in his home state, and he did ... Winner."
He needed to hit a home run in his home state, and he did so by dumping the personal attacks and adopting a more personal approach. He mixed in anecdotes, including a touching one about a supporter who keeps heading out to campaign for him even though he's recovering from surgery, and combined that with a fierce condemnation of Barack Obama's Cuba policy and an incisive grip on policy details. Winner.
  