
    PELLEY: Before this interview, you would have just received your intelligence briefing. What are you seeing on the Ukrainian border that worries you?
THE PRESIDENT: Well, this is not something that would be just in my briefing. I think it's well known and well acknowledged that you've seen a range of troops massing along that border under the guise of military exercises. But these are not what Russia would normally be doing.
And, you know, it may simply be an effort to intimidate Ukraine, or it may be that they've got additional plans. And in either case, what we need right now to resolve and deescalate the situation would be to Russia -- for Russia to move back those troops and to begin negotiations directly with the Ukrainian government, as well as the international community.
PELLEY: What is Vladimir Putin after?
THE PRESIDENT: Well, you know, if you take him at his word, then --
PELLEY: Can you?
THE PRESIDENT: Well, on this, I think he's been willing to show a deeply held grievance about what he considers to be the loss of the Soviet Union. You would have thought that after a couple of decades that there'd be an awareness on the part of any Russian leader that the path forward does not revert back to the kinds of practices that, you know, were so prevalent during the Cold War, but, in fact, to move forward with further integration with the world economy and to be a responsible international citizen.
He's said that he considers the breakup of the Soviet Union to be tragic. I think there's a strong sense of Russian nationalism and a sense that somehow the West has taken advantage of Russia in the past and that he wants to, in some fashion, you know, reverse that or make up for that.
What I have repeatedly said is that he may be entirely misreading the West. He's certainly misreading American foreign policy. We have no interest in encircling Russia and we have no interest in Ukraine beyond letting the Ukrainian people make their own decisions about their own lives. And it is true that we reject the notion that there is a sphere of influence along the Russian border that then justifies Russia invading other countries.
Certainly they're going to have influence because of trade and tradition and language and heritage with Ukraine. Everybody acknowledges that. But there's a difference between that and sending in troops and, because you're bigger and stronger, taking a piece of the country. That is not how international law and international norms are observed in the 21st century.
PELLEY: Can you give me a sense of what it's like to be in the presence of Pope Francis?
THE PRESIDENT: Well, you know, he's a wonderful man. Obviously you get a very brief impression. We had a conversation of 45 minutes, although I've admired him from afar since he became pope. I think he projects the kind of humility and kindness that is consistent with my understanding, at least, of Jesus' teachings. He seems to have a good sense of humor.
I think that his -- his simplicity and his belief in the power of the spiritual over the material reflects itself in everything that he says and does. And I suspect -- my sense is that he's a little bit uncomfortable with all the trappings of being pope.
PELLEY: Embarrassed by them.
THE PRESIDENT: Well, you know, that's not his style. And that is part of why I think he has been so embraced around the world, because people get a sense that, first and foremost, he sees himself as a priest and as a discipline of Christ and as somebody who is concerned with, you know, the least of these. And, you know, nothing's more powerful than someone who seems to live out their convictions.
  