
    Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) Funding to Support Comprehensive Community Prevention, Treatment, Recovery and Health Services
The Biden Administration will provide nearly $2.5 billion in funding to states and territories to address the nation's mental illness and addiction crisis, which has worsened during the COVID-19 pandemic.
The Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) at the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) will direct $1.65 billion in Substance Abuse Prevention and Treatment Block Grant funding and $825 million in Community Mental Health Services Block Grant funding to states and territories.
The Community Mental Health Services Block Grant program allows states and territories to provide comprehensive community mental health services and address needs and gaps in existing treatment services for those with severe mental health conditions.
The Substance Abuse Prevention and Treatment Block Grant program allows states and territories to plan, implement and evaluate activities to prevent and treat substance use disorder. This funding will also allow recipients to maximize efficiency in existing treatment and recovery infrastructure, promote support for providers and address unique local needs to deliver substance use disorder prevention.
"We know multiple stressors during the pandemic – isolation, sickness, grief, job loss, food instability and loss of routines – have devastated many Americans and presented unprecedented challenges for behavioral health providers across the nation," said Acting Assistant Secretary for Mental Health and Substance Use Tom Coderre. "During this time of increased urgency, we want to assure them that funding is in place to help states and territories provide pathways to prevention, intervention, treatment and recovery services, especially for underserved populations."
Recently, the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention released data confirming a rise in fatal overdoses during the pandemic, and this year's increases in calls to helplines across the country are indicative of growing anxiety, depression and trauma in Americans. The COVID-19 pandemic and the corresponding economic crisis have been especially devastating for Black and Latino communities, who are experiencing a disproportionate number of COVID-19 infections and deaths as well as higher-than-average unemployment rates.
"SAMHSA resources connect Americans to evidence-based treatment and services every day," said Coderre. "Focusing on both mental and substance use disorders – challenges that pre-date the COVID-19 pandemic but that have worsened over the past year – will be a crucial part of SAMHSA's approach to helping the nation move forward."
In addition to the $2.5 billion awarded today, SAMHSA has awarded $686 million in Certified Community Behavioral Health Clinics (CCBHC) Expansion Grants; Emergency Grants to Address Mental and Substance Use Disorders During COVID-19 (Emergency Response COVID-19) and supplements to fiscal year 2020 Emergency Response COVID-19 grant recipients.
Funding allocation tables can be viewed here:
FY 2021 Community Mental Health Block Grant Program COVID-19 Supplemental Awards
FY 2021 Substance Abuse Prevention and Treatment Block Grant Program COVID-19 Supplemental Awards
People searching for treatment for mental or substance use disorders can find treatment by visiting >https://findtreatment.samhsa.gov< or by calling SAMHSA's National Helpline,1-800-662-HELP (4357).
  