
    Analyses by a number of election experts conclude that stopping Donald Trump from securing the nomination requires John Kasich winning in Ohio. Today, polls show John Kasich is in a statistical dead heat in his home state versus Trump. Polls also show Kasich with far superior favorability numbers over Trump among Ohio Republicans. Meanwhile, both Rubio and Cruz are losing in Ohio by double digits, and a recent poll by Baldwin-Wallace even shows both losing Ohio to Trump one-on-one.
Additionally, John Kasich is the only potential nominee in position to win in November versus Hillary Clinton in the key swing states of Ohio, Virginia, Florida and New Hampshire.
John Roberts, Fox News, @johnrobertsFox
Call me crazy, but if @marcorubio loses FL and @JohnKasich wins OH, I see a possible route to Kasich to be last man standing against Trump
Greta Van Susteren, @greta
[In response to Roberts] I agree — it could be Kasich as last man standing
Dave Wasserman, Cook Political Report/FiveThirtyEight.com, ?@Redistrict
Starting to think CW that GOP needs to unite behind one non-Trump alternative to stop him from winning 1,237 delegates is wrong.
It's much easier to envision a two-front war in which Cruz siphons delegates from Trump in red zones, Kasich/Rubio in blue zones.
Bill Kristol – Editor, Weekly Standard, @BillKristol
Path forward? Cruz, Rubio, Kasich fight the proportional states, focus attacks on Trump. Then a 1-day favorite son strategy for OH & FL 3/15
Jay Cost, Weekly Standard, @JayCostTWS
A huge Cruz win in TX. A Rubio win in FL. A Kasich win in OH. This would combine to probably keep Trump from 1,237.
Chuck Todd, First Read
Trump's rivals now have just two weeks to stop him — in the winner-take-all races of Florida and Ohio on March 15. The good news for them: The combined delegate haul from Florida and Ohio (165) is bigger than Trump's overall delegate lead over his closest competition, Cruz (104 delegates).
Nathan Gonzalez, Cook Political Report/Roll Call
The only way to stop Trump now might be to keep him from securing a majority of delegates before the convention in Cleveland.
The best way to do that is to keep Trump from winning the primary's biggest prizes. Cruz made sure Trump didn't sweep Texas. Kasich's mission (should he choose to accept it) is to keep Trump from winning Ohio on March 15.And Rubio needs to keep Trump from winning Florida that same day.
Dan Balz, Washington Post
Some believe that the most realistic scenario for stopping Trump begins with victories by Cruz, Kasich and Rubio in their home states. Cruz managed thatTuesday; Rubio and Kasich face those tests March 15.
Bill Whalen, Fox News/Stanford University
The number that matters most? It's not states won, but the 1,237 delegates needed to win the GOP nomination.
Of the 1,744 Republican delegates left on the board after Super Tuesday, 391 are in winner-take-all states. The two most important: Florida and Ohio, on March 15. Trump has to be stopped in one, if not both, to slow down the express.
  