
    Mr. Prime Minister and Mrs. Cosgrave, ladies and gentlemen:
Betty and I have had the luck of the Americans to have you with us tonight. [Laughter] You have been in our country before and are very obviously our friends, but on this very special day we have had the great pleasure to welcome you on your first visit as Prime Minister of your country.
On this St. Patrick's Day of the United States Bicentennial Year, all Americans know there is a bit of the green in the red, white, and blue of the United States. [Laughter]
We honor the history of our Nation and the great contributions that all of you from Ireland have made to American independence, as well as growth. No country could be more welcome or entitled to join in our Bicentennial celebration than Ireland. We are proud of the Irish chapter of development and achievements as far as the United States is concerned. The very high proportion of Irish-Americans in George Washington's army is no blarney. [Laughter]
As I observed this morning, Mr. Prime Minister, 11 signers of the Declaration of Independence were Irish-Americans, and the White House itself, where we are dining tonight, was designed by a native of Kilkenny, James Hoban, in 1792. We are told by our historians that the Irish may even have had a hand in discovering America. I say by Irish historians--[laughter]--so we don't get into some conflict with some other friends of ours.
Saint Brendan the Navigator may have crossed the Atlantic in the sixth century, and I believe that some of your hearty countrymen will attempt the same crossing this May in a boat much like Saint Brendan's. We will welcome them, Betty and myself, to the Irish-designed White House when they arrive.
The Irish contribution to America is not restricted to the past. Today, some 20 million Irish-Americans are building energetically on the great legacy of their ancestors. They are helping our country to make an even greater achievement as we enter our third century.
Many distinguished Americans of Irish heritage are here tonight to honor you and Mrs. Cosgrave. Their contributions are in a wide variety of endeavors, whether it is education, medicine, the law, religion, theater, the arts, the building trades, business. It covers all aspects of our society. But nowhere have Americans of Irish descent been more prominent than in government and in politics. And we have some good evidence of that here tonight. The Irish have that love of people, gift of language, warmth of heart, and capacity of courage that makes them grand and great competition.
We pay tribute to the long, long friendship as well as the kinship of the Irish and the American people. But while honoring the past, Mr. Prime Minister, we face the challenge of the future. As we value your friendship, so we value your cooperation with us on these great issues that we have to face on a day-to-day basis.
Your visit and the talks we had this morning are of great importance not only for the American-Irish relations, but for our efforts to work together on the issues confronting our entire world community. Ireland, not only in the past but the present, has much to give to the world. Possessed of an ancient civilization and very rich culture, the Irish are devoted--as we are--to democracy, individual freedom, and constructive participation in international political arenas.
Ireland is a leader in the quest for a just peace among nations. They have contributed very actively and effectively in the United Nations, and you have done much to perfect the United Nations peacekeeping effort throughout the world.
Distinguished Irishmen have served as the Presidents not only of the United Nations but of the League of Nations, and you should all be very proud of that responsibility.
More recently, Ireland has taken a very effective role in the European Community. And we deeply appreciate the achievement of close consultations between this Community and the United States during your term as President of the European Community.
Mr. Prime Minister, I know from our discussions this morning that we are both determined to expand the relations between our two countries. We have dedicated ourselves to peace and to progress of not only our nations but all peoples, with a firm commitment to cooperate with one another, with all humanity, to a common purpose. Mr. Prime Minister, this is one of the finest traditions of this wonderful day, which is dedicated to St. Patrick. I can assure you that today is not only a great day for the Irish but it has also been a great day for Betty and myself.
Let me say that we thank you, Mr. Prime Minister and Mrs. Cosgrave, for Sharing St. Patrick's Day with us. And to all of the people, some 215 million Americans, it is a great occasion for us in our Bicentennial Year.
So, now I ask all of you to join with me in a toast to the Prime Minister of Ireland and to the special, the very special, relationship between Ireland and the United States, past, present, and future, and to all of the Irish everywhere.
To you, Mr. Prime Minister.
  