
    Today, Illinois Attorney General Kwame Raoul endorsed Joe Biden for President and released the following statement:
"As attorney general, I have made a commitment to treat gun violence — and community violence at large — as a public health epidemic. As such, I have promoted policies that work to address violence in a comprehensive manner. It is for that reason that I am supporting the presidential candidate who has consistently shared this approach: Joe Biden.
"Joe is the one candidate with a history of standing up to the gun lobby when others have been afraid to do so. He has consistently supported background checks on gun sales and closing gun show and online sales loopholes. Unlike his opponent, he opposed a bill giving immunity to gun manufacturers. He supports smart gun technology, red flag laws like the Beau Biden Gun Violence Act and banning new assault weapons. Importantly, he understands the need to invest in evidence-based interventions to take on the daily urban violence experienced in places like Chicago, Rockford, Peoria, Springfield and East St. Louis.
"Joe has long understood that eliminating violence begins with supporting its victims in a trauma-informed manner. Joe led the charge to pass the Violence Against Women Act. Joe will require that federal programs support survivors, taking trauma into account. Joe understands the impact of the vicarious trauma that arises when violence pervades a community. Joe fought alongside President Obama to pass the Affordable Care Act so assault survivors cannot be denied health insurance and treatment.
"Now is not a time for rhetoric that divides us. Now is the time for steady leadership from a proven leader who knows how to bridge the divide to get things done. Now is the time for Joe Biden. I enthusiastically endorse him to be our nominee for President of the United States of America."
Raoul was born in Chicago as the son of Haitian immigrants. After a distinguished career in the Cook County State's Attorney's Office, Raoul was appointed to fill the vacancy left in the legislature by Barack Obama's election to the U.S. Senate. Now as Illinois' Attorney General, Raoul has led the fight to reduce gun violence, protect consumers, and help victims and survivors of crime. Raoul is also a survivor of prostate cancer – the same disease that took the lives of his father and grandfather. The experience has solidified his commitment to making health care a right – not just a privilege for the few.
Raoul joins a growing list of more than 100 Illinois leaders supporting Biden, including Members of Congress Raja Krishnamoorthi, Bobby Rush, Brad Schneider, Danny Davis, Mike Quigley, Robin Kelly, Sean Casten, and Bill Foster; U.S. Senators Dick Durbin and Tammy Duckworth; Secretary of State Jesse White; Comptroller Susana A. Mendoza; Chicago Mayor Lori Lightfoot; former Senator and Ambassador Carol Moseley Braun; and state legislators, mayors, and community leaders from across Illinois.
Biden for President has previously announced more than 2,100 endorsements from national, state, and local leaders, including current and former U.S. senators and representatives, governors, state elected officials, community leaders, and national security professionals.
  