
    Memorandum for Heads of Executive Departments and Agencies:
SUBJECT: Federal Executive Career Development Using Long-Term Training Programs
In the years ahead, the challenges confronting the executive branch of Government will demand very highly qualified men and women. The tasks before us require the fullest possible development of the talents of individuals now employed throughout the executive agencies and departments.
The Civil Service Commission is acting to improve existing training programs, to redefine our goals in the field of education for people who have proven executive ability, and to build new and innovative programs in response to current and future needs. The Division of Executive Development and Labor Relations in the Office of Management and Budget will be working with the Commission in a joint effort to provide the best possible means for preparing executives in the Federal Government for positions of greater responsibility.
In the unremitting effort to use our fiscal resources as effectively as possible, it would be easy but unwise to overlook the need to provide now for well prepared leadership in the years to come. Expenditures for executive development programs made at the present time are a necessary and justifiable investment in our Nation's future. Their importance is no less than that of other current requirements.
A training program called "Education for Public Management" is a central element in the Federal executive development effort. It is essentially a continuation of earlier activities, and it seeks to provide promising administrators with a concentrated educational experience through an academic year away from the job. This type of long-term training program at universities encourages a valuable exchange of insights between faculty members and Federal officials, helping both to achieve a better understanding of the problems of governing.
I ask you to search carefully for strong candidates, and to continue nominating them for participation in "Education for Public Management" and other long-term training programs administered by the Civil Service Commission.
RICHARD NIXON
  