
    Espaillat is the 12th Congressional Hispanic Caucus Member to Endorse Joe Biden
Today, New York Congressman Adriano Espaillat, the first Dominican-American to serve in the U.S. Congress, released the following statement endorsing Joe Biden for President, citing the former Vice President's strong record of delivering to working families and the strong leadership he has recently demonstrated in times of crisis:
"As a nation, we have repeatedly witnessed and suffered from a lack of leadership in the White House. The mismanagement of the Coronavirus pandemic adds to the long list of failures and broken promises that have come to define the current administration. Joe Biden is the only candidate with the experience, record, and leadership skills to effectively manage a crisis on both a domestic and international scope and deliver on the kitchen table issues that working families care about.
"I applaud the Vice President's vision to manage immigration policy, including his proposed moratorium on massive deportations and his call for comprehensive immigration reform. I fully support his Healthcare Plan, which calls for preserving and improving the historic Affordable Care Act, which has facilitated health insurance coverage for over 100 million people since its enactment in 2010."
Congressman Adriano Espaillat is currently serving his second term in Congress and sits on the U.S. House Foreign Affairs Committee, the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the House Small Business Committee. Additionally, Congressman Espaillat serves as the Congressional Hispanic Caucus Whip and is the chairman of the CHC Task Force for Transportation, Infrastructure and Housing. Previous to serving in Congress, Espaillat was the first Dominican-American elected to a state legislature where he served as the Chairman of the Senate Puerto Rican/Latino Caucus and served as the chair of the New York State Black, Puerto Rican, Hispanic and Asian Legislative Caucus while he was in the New York State Assembly.
Congressman Espaillat's endorsement comes on the heels of Vice President Biden's presidential debate performance and plan to combat COVID-19. The plan Biden unveiled offers both a decisive public health response to curb the spread of this disease and provide treatment to those in need -- as well as a decisive economic response that delivers real relief to American workers, families, and small businesses — and protects the economy as a whole. Additionally, Espaillat's endorsement is further proof of how Biden's commitment and record on delivering on the issues that directly affect American's is resonating with the Latino community.
Biden leads the field in congressional endorsements with support from more than 100 U.S. Representatives and 14 U.S. Senators, including the most endorsements from members of both the Congressional Black Caucus and the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. And nationally, Biden for President has previously announced more than 2,100 endorsements from national, state, and local leaders, including current and former U.S. senators and representatives, governors, state elected officials, community leaders, and national security professionals.
  