
    
  Cruz Confirms Over $1 million Raised in the First 24 Hours Since Announcement

Earlier today, in a wide-ranging interview, presidential candidate Ted Cruz talks to nationally syndicated radio host Mike Gallagher. Cruz talks about raising over $1 million dollars on the first day of his campaign, Obamacare, and a high-speed chase in high school.


OVERWHELMING SUPPORT
Cruz talks about the overwhelming grassroots support he received in the first two days since his presidential announcement at Liberty University.
CRUZ: "It has been an incredible two days. The support we've been seeing has been simply breath-taking. By the end of the first day, about 140,000 people had come to our website, tedcruz.org, and we ended up raising over $1 million dollars in the very first day of the campaign."
CRUZ MESSAGE RESONATES WITH A BROAD-SPECTRUM OF AMERICANS
Salem Host Mike Gallagher tells Cruz he speaks for many of his listeners who have been following Cruz saying that the country needs to see this extraordinary man.
GALLAGHER: "There is no question your speech has resonated with millions and millions of people."
REPEALING EVERY WORD OF OBAMACARE TOP PRIORITY
Cruz explains the damage Obamacare is doing to the economy and reveals he will now have to consider signing up for the federal exchange as a result of his wife taking a leave of absence to help with the campaign.
CRUZ: "From day one I have believed that Obamacare has been an absolute disaster and there has been no stronger opponent of Obamacare. It is my intention to campaign everyday on repealing Obamacare.
ONE DAY ONE, CRUZ WOULD REVERSE EVERY LAWLESS EXECUTIVE ORDER
Cruz describes the profound damage the administration has done to the Constitution and the Rule of Law.
CRUZ: "We have an executive that if he disagrees with law, he ignores it. The very first thing I intend to do if I am elected president, the first day in office, is rescind every single unconstitutional or illegal executive action or executive order from this president."
HIGH SPEED RIDE-OF-THE-VALKYRIES CHASE IN "THE GREEN BOMB"
Cruz tells the story of getting busted for a high-school prank and his principle threatening to write a letter asking Princeton University to rescind their decision to accept him if he did not reveal who else was involved in the prank.
CRUZ: "I think it's a matter of character and integrity, I am not going to rat out my friends."
Click here to listen to the interview.
  