
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

Our Founding Fathers envisioned a nation whose strength and vitality would emerge from the ingenuity of its people and their commitment to individual liberty. They understood that a nation's prosperity is dependent on the freedom of its citizens to pursue their hopes, dreams, and creative ambitions. American entrepreneurs and small business owners enthusiastically embraced the challenges of freedom and through the miracle of the marketplace set in motion the forces of economic growth that made our Nation uniquely productive. This pattern of economic development has inspired people throughout the world to look to America for a better life.
The Nation grew as our free enterprise system became the mainspring of American progress by encouraging entrepreneurs to compete in meeting the demand for new products and methods of production. Competition enabled us to develop our human resources more effectively and enrich our society. With each new discovery, our perception of what could be achieved expanded.
Today small business plays an even more vital role in our national life and is responsible for the creation of well over half of the new jobs in our economy. Small business is also in the forefront of utilizing technological advances.
America's entrepreneurs and small business owners are among the most dynamic and innovative leaders of the business community. Their willingness to confront uncertainty with creativity and determination to succeed helps our Nation meet the challenges we face today. This spirit of accomplishment inspires Americans to look toward tomorrow with confidence and anticipation to the new opportunities open to future generations. By taking steps to encourage the formation and success of small businesses, America can help ensure its economic standing in the world.
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the week beginning May 8, 1983, as Small Business Week. I call upon every American to join me in this tribute.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this 7th day of March, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty three, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and seventh.

RONALD REAGAN
  