
    Biden Now Has Support from Florida's Entire Democratic Delegation
This morning on CBS Miami's "Facing South Florida with Jim Defede," South Florida Congresswoman Donna Shalala endorsed Vice President Joe Biden. In her announcement, Shalala cited her close working relationship with Biden during her tenure as U.S. Secretary of Health and Human Services, as well as Biden being the "no brainer" choice for South Florida residents. Shalala's endorsement comes two days before the Florida Presidential Preference Primary.
"Joe Biden and I have worked side by side in some of the most important fights of our time, from expanding access to affordable health care to creating better opportunities for working families," said Congresswoman Donna Shalala. "I know firsthand that he is the candidate with the experience and vision to actually deliver on behalf of the American people. Making Donald Trump a one-term president is absolutely critical. As we approach the general election, the stakes couldn't be higher. The next four years will decide whether we tackle climate change and build a cleaner, greener future; whether we protect the future of the Supreme Court, and with it, fundamental voting rights and reproductive freedom; whether we bring our country together to unite in hope, not hate. This is Joe Biden's vision for America: one where, as he says, 'our best days still lie ahead.' That's a vision I couldn't be prouder to support."
With Shalala's endorsement, Biden has the support of the entire Florida Democratic congressional delegation, including Debbie Murcarsel-Powell, Stephanie Murphy, Kathy Castor, Charlie Crist, Val Demings, Ted Deutch, Lois Frankel, Alcee Hastings, Al Lawson, Debbie Wasserman Schultz, Darren Soto, and Frederica Wilson. Biden for President has previously announced more than 2,100 endorsements from national, state, and local leaders, including current and former U.S. senators and representatives, governors, state elected officials, community leaders, and national security professionals.
Biden's endorsements showcase the diversity and strength of support for Vice President Biden in Florida and across the country, as well as the trust that these leaders have in his ability to beat Donald Trump, restore the soul of this nation, rebuild the middle class, and bring the country together.
  