
    Escobar 8th Congressional Hispanic Caucus Member to Back Biden
Today, Texas Congresswoman Veronica Escobar released the following statement endorsing Joe Biden for President of the United States:
"In the 2020 election, experience matters. That's why I'm endorsing Vice President Joe Biden for President of the United States as the best candidate to take on Donald Trump and the chaos his administration has created. Communities like mine in El Paso need real solutions to the problems we are facing. From gun violence prevention to immigration reform, Vice President Biden has the integrity, experience and record of successful governing to lead our nation.
"In Texas, where about 5 million people have no health insurance at all, where our border counties have some of the highest poverty rates and highest uninsured rates, we need a fighter who will help expand health coverage for everyone. In an era of unprecedented income inequality, we need someone willing to create an economy that works for all of us. And after three years of an administration that uses cruelty as its central motivator, our country needs a compassionate leader who will bring us together.
"I'm proud to stand with Joe Biden, whose proven track record has improved countless American lives."
Escobar is the 51st Member of Congress and 8th Congressional Hispanic Caucus member to back Biden, solidifying his significant lead in congressional endorsements among the Democratic field. Biden has now received more than 50 Texas endorsements, including Congressional Black Caucus members Eddie Bernice Johnson, Marc Veasey, and Colin Allred; Congressional Hispanic Caucus members Sylvia Garcia, Filemon Vela, and Vicente Gonzalez; as well as Senate Democratic Caucus Chair Carol Alvarado and State House Democratic Caucus Chair Chris Turner.
Biden for President has previously announced more than 1,400 endorsements from national, state, and local leaders, including current and former U.S. senators and representatives, governors, state elected officials, community leaders, and national security professionals.
  