
    Here's How Much Donald Trump Wants to Raise the Price of Products You Buy
 
One of Donald Trump's few specific proposals to boost the American economy is the idea of huge new tariffs on imported goods: He has suggested a 45 percent tax on all imports from China and a 35 percent tax on cars from Mexico.
Trump advertises his tariffs as a cure-all that would create jobs and economic stability. But we know from recent history — like when the U.S. imposed large tariffs on car tires — that these kinds of tariffs create few jobs and jack up prices.
The same results are inevitable under Trump's proposals except, because he wants to raise prices on so many more goods, they'd mean higher prices for even more Americans.
In other words, this is just another Trump scam. But just how much is Donald Trump proposing to raise your prices? 
Assuming a 45 percent tariff on products from China and a 35 percent tariff on cars from Mexico, here are some estimates:
The base price of a Ford Fusion, made in Mexico, would rise from $22,260 to $28,240, an increase of $5,980 or 27 percent.

The price of a 13.3" Dell laptop, made in China, would rise from $799 to $968, an increase of $169 or 21 percent.

The price of a pair of Nike Free 5.0 sneakers, made in China, would rise from $100 to $111, an increase of 11 percent.

The price of a full-size Danby refrigerator sold at Walmart, made in China, would rise from $500 to $664, an increase of $164 or 33 percent.

In other words, Americans would see prices on key big-ticket items like cars and electronics jump by more than 25 percent. Can you imagine the bite that will take out of the paychecks of working Americans that Donald Trump claims to protect?
Marco believes American leaders should approach trade in a way that puts our economy and American workers first — for example, by making sure other countries we trade with are playing by the rules. But in the 21st century, imposing sizeable tariffs — essentially huge new sales taxes — is one of the worst things our next president could do for American families and workers. Moreover, such high tariffs probably wouldn't even bring jobs back here; they would likely just push production to a country we haven't put a tariff on.
Marco proposes to help American businesses create good-paying jobs and reviving manufacturing with policies that will actually help workers:

a tax plan that cuts corporate and small-business taxes to competitive levels, allows immediate expensing of equipment and investment, and increases take-home pay, 
a plan to cap regulatory costs imposed on American companies,
a set of education reform ideas that will help Americans get the skills they need through vocational education and alternative providers, and more

Marco's policies will help America prosper and keep the American Dream alive. 
Meanwhile, Donald Trump is proposing, in effect, to put a 25+ percent sales tax on many of the products you buy. 
The choice is pretty clear.
(Price increases are based on calculations by trade experts advising the Rubio campaign, using landed-duty-paid value for the product according to the U.S. International Trade Commission.)
  