
    Pool Reports by Zolan Kanno-Youngs, The New York Times 



Sent:
Reports:




March 27, 2023 09:52 GMT

VP supplemental pool #1 bilat arrival
Hello all! Zolan Kanno-Youngs here reporting for pool duty. Hope all is well.
The VP's motorcade rolled out of the RON at 9:41 am. We arrived at the Jubilee House for the Vice president's bilateral meeting at 9:49 am.
Below you'll find the vice president's schedule for the day:
At 11:15 AM GMT, the Vice President will participate in a restricted bilateral meeting with President Nana Akufo-Addo of Ghana. This meeting at Jubilee House will be closed press.
At 11:25 AM GMT, the Vice President will participate in an expanded bilateral meeting with President Nana Akufo-Addo of Ghana. This bilateral meeting at Jubilee House will have a pool spray at the top.
At 12:40 PM GMT, the Vice President and President Akufo-Addo will hold a joint press conference. This joint press conference at Jubilee House will be open to pre-credentialed media.
At 3:10 PM GMT, the Vice President will visit the Freedom Skate Park and Vibrate Space – a co-working space and community recording studio – to meet with local artists and entertainers. The tour of Vibrate Skate Park will be covered by an expanded pool and the engagement at Vibrate Space will have a pool spray at the top.
At 7:30 PM GMT, the Vice President and Second Gentleman will attend a State Banquet hosted by President Akufo-Addo and First Lady Rebecca Akufo-Addo of Ghana. The arrival at the State Banquet at the Jubilee House will be pooled press. The State Banquet will have a pool spray at the top.
And here's background from the White House:
ON BACKGROUND FROM A WHITE HOUSE OFFICIAL  On Monday, March 26th, Vice President Harris will have her first full day in Ghana, which will include a bilateral meeting with President Akufo-Addo. She will then visit Vibrate studio, a community recording studio for young creatives in Accra. And finally, she will attend a State Banquet hosted by President Akufo-Addo and First Lady Rebecca Akufo-Addo. The below background and attached fact sheet are under embargoed until Monday, 3/27, 6AM GMT (2AM ET).
BILATERAL MEETING WITH PRESIDENT AKUFO-ADDO OF GHANA Vice President Kamala Harris will meet with President Nana Akufo-Addo of Ghana at Jubilee House and affirm the strength of our bilateral relationship, and the long-standing ties between the American and Ghanaian people.
The Vice President and President Akufo-Addo will discuss a range of global and regional issues including: democracy, good governance, and human rights; regional security; long-term economic growth and macroeconomic stability; and our work together on the UN Security Council.
On democracy, good governance, and human rights, they will discuss efforts to stand up for democratic principles on the continent and our shared opposition to recent democratic backsliding.
On regional security, they will discuss the Sahel and efforts to promote stability, including through new U.S. funding for stabilization efforts.
On debt, the Vice President will re-affirm the U.S. position that all bilateral creditors should provide meaningful debt reduction and express support for Ghana's engagement with the IMF. They will also discuss efforts to support long term economic growth and increase U.S. private sector investment.
The Vice President will thank President Akufo-Addo for his leadership in strengthening ties between Africa and the African Diaspora.
VISIT TO VIBRATE SPACE Vice President Harris will visit Vibrate Space, a community recording studio for young creatives located at Freedom Skatepark in Accra, as part of her effort to engage directly with young people and highlight the dynamism and creativity taking place across the continent. There, she will tour the facility and meet with a group of musicians including up-and-coming artists that represent the new generation of Ghanaian and Ghanaian-American entertainers. Her visit will spotlight the growing creative economy and underscore the strong links between our nation's artistic and diaspora communities. The Vice President will be joined by Actors Idris Elba and Sheryl Lee Ralph.
Vibrate opened in 2022 in partnership with Kendrick Lamar's company pgLang, Spotify, and local sports NGO Surf Ghana. Vibrate aims to empower young people by equipping aspiring music entrepreneurs with the necessary tools to compete in the global music market.
Additional background on Vibrate Space and Ghanian music industry:

Vibrate runs a music business educational program that includes public workshops (called "masterclasses") dedicated to acquiring hands-on skills like recording, mixing, mastering, and DJing to cater to the diverse needs of Ghana's dynamic music industry. Previous masterclasses have attracted more than 200 people at each session to learn about live performances, songwriting, and producing from musicians from Nigeria, South Africa, and other parts of the continent. 
Vibrate is located at Freedom Skatepark, Ghana's first fully functioning skateboard park, which uses action sports as a driver for creative self-expression, social inclusion, and female empowerment. 
Accra has developed a reputation as a music destination after attracting huge crowds to the Global Citizen Festival, Afronation, Afrochella, and the Black Star Line Festival between September 2022 and January 2023. 
Kendrick Lamar chose to release his latest album in May 2022 while in Accra. Freedom Skatepark has drawn visits from well-known American artists traveling to Ghana, including Kendrick Lamar, Chance the Rapper, and Pharrell Williams, as well as partnerships with the late fashion designer Virgil Abloh and Vans. 

STATE BANQUET President Akufo-Addo will be a hosting a State Banquet in honor of the Vice President and Second Gentleman's visit to Accra, Ghana. Approximately 300 guests, invited by the Ghanian government, will attend, including several dozen prominent members of the African Diaspora in the United States. Additional information on the guest list will be forthcoming.


March 27, 2023 10:04 GMT

VP supplemental pool 2 note correx
Correction on the last pool note. The pool was brought to the Jubilee House at 9:49 am in advance of the VP. The VP is scheduled to arrive at 11:15 am.


March 27, 2023 12:05 GMT

VP supplemental #3 bilat
Vice President Harris' motorcade arrived at the Jubilee House compound at 11:01 am. As her motorcade parked, President Akufo-Addo came to the entrance of the building and said hello to his staffers.
The VP's motorcade pulled up to a gate outside, where a red carpet stretched to the front door of the building. On either side of the red carpet stood what appeared to be an honor guard dressed in either red or blue formal uniforms, some playing drums and the US national anthem. Harris took time to shake the hands of members of the guard. Your pooler, in the press area just inside the entrance of the building, only had partial visibility of the ceremony outside.
As President Akufo-Addo waited for Harris, a reporter asked what his message would be to the VP. He said they would talk about "all kinds of things."
Asked if he thought the US was a good partner, he said "absolutely."
He said he was looking forward to strengthening "those relations."
The Vice President entered and walked passed gathered press at 11:12 and posed for photographs with the president.
"And here I am," the Vice president said to President Akufo-Addo.
"Very nice to meet you," the VP said to the First Lady of Ghana.
Both the president of Ghana and the VP then shook hands with Ghanian and American staffers before entering their restricted bilat at 11:18.
At 11:43 am, the VP and president of Ghana entered their extended bilateral.
President Akufo-Addo spoke first.
"We're delighted to have you here with us in Ghana," he said. He said Ghana values it's relationship with the United States.
"We're looking forward to using this visit of yours as a springboard to renew these relationships and expand them" he said. He said they both need to collaborate on recovering from the pandemic and the effects of the "war in Europe."
He also said the region suffered from security issues. "West Africa has become an area of instability," he said, specifically noting threats in Mali.
On American investment, he said, "We always thought somehow or other we don't feature too strongly in the area of private investment in America. More and more American companies are interested in Ghana and we want that to be accepted," he said.
Harris had shorter remarks. She said President Akufo-Addo had been "courageous about standing for democratic principles."
"I thank you for the friendship you have offered to the United States," she said. Akufo-Addo did not answer a shouted question about the Wagner group in Burkina Faso.
Otter below:
Akufo-Addo:
https://otter.ai/u/fsZcVzlbwGq98DwAPSAtQz5axXc
Harris:
https://otter.ai/u/fsZcVzlbwGq98DwAPSAtQz5axXc


March 27, 2023 13:55 GMY

VP Supplemental Pool #4 press briefing
VP Harris and President Akufo-Addo entered the hall for their news conference at 1 PM. The press briefing was streamed on Cspan. It lasted 36 minutes. Note that the VP in her opening remarks announced a $100 million investment to support conflict prevention and stabilization efforts in Coastal West Africa.
VP was first asked about the economic toll of war in Ukraine on U.S.
-VP was then asked about why this visit about was more than competing with China. President Akufo-Addo was then asked what assurances the VP gave that made him feel this visit was about more than China.
-VP was then asked about the responsibility powerful nations have to combat climate change.
-VP was then asked what she has said to the president and what she will say to other African leaders about anti-gay legislation proposals or laws?
-President Akufo-Addo was asked what more he needs to combat the Wagner group and if Al Qaeda is already operating in Ghana.
The time on the briefing was 36 minutes.
Here's a quote I didn't include in the last report from Akufo-Addo's opening remarks in the bilat (before the press briefing) on terrorists threats in the region: "West Africa has unfortunately become an area of instability because of the result of interventional terrorists in our area," he said. He said certain people found refuge in Mali and are "using Mali as a base for spreading poison across the west of west Africa."
He went on to say a portion of Burkina Faso is "run by terrorists." It sounds like he said the north of the country but tough to hear the exact quote.
Below you will also find background information from the bilateral: Bumping the bilateral meeting background with updates, including the names of today's program participants.
BILATERAL MEETING WITH PRESIDENT AKUFO-ADDO OF GHANAVice President Kamala Harris will meet with President Nana Akufo-Addo of Ghana at Jubilee House and affirm the strength of our bilateral relationship, and the long-standing ties between the American and Ghanaian people.
The Vice President and President Akufo-Addo will discuss a range of global and regional issues including: democracy, good governance, and human rights; regional security; long-term economic growth and macroeconomic stability; and our work together on the UN Security Council.
On democracy, good governance, and human rights, they will discuss efforts to stand up for democratic principles on the continent and our shared opposition to recent democratic backsliding.
On regional security, they will discuss the Sahel and efforts to promote stability, including through new U.S. funding for stabilization efforts.
On debt, the Vice President will re-affirm the U.S. position that all bilateral creditors should provide meaningful debt reduction and express support for Ghana's engagement with the IMF. They will also discuss efforts to support long term economic growth and increase U.S. private sector investment.
The Vice President will thank President Akufo-Addo for his leadership in strengthening ties between Africa and the African Diaspora.
Updates:

Upon arrival at Jubilee House, Vice President Harris was greeted by Ambassador Samuel Kumah, Director of State Protocol, Ghana. An Honor Guard played the national anthem of both countries. The Vice President then inspected the front rank of the guard of honor and proceed to Jubilee House doors where she was greeted by President Nana Akufo-Addo and Mrs. Akufo-Addo.
Vice President Harris proceeded to a restricted bilateral meeting with President Nana Akufo-Addo. They are joined by Philp Gordon, National Security Advisor to the Vice President, and Mr. Nana Bediatuo Asante, Secretary to the President.
Following the restricted bilateral meeting, Vice President Harris and President Nana Akufo-Addo will move to an expanded bilateral meeting. The full delegations:

U.S. Delegation:

VPOTUS
T.H. Lorraine Voles, Assistant to the President and Chief of Staff to the Vice President
T.H. Phil Gordon, Assistant to the President and National Security Advisor to the Vice President
Ambassador Virginia Palmer, U.S. Ambassador to Ghana
T.H. Rebecca Lissner, Special Assistant to the President and Deputy National Security Advisor to the Vice President
T.H. Johnnie Carson, Special Presidential Representative for African Leaders Summit Implementation
Ms. Safia Mohamoud, Special Advisor for Africa
T.H. Erin Wilson, Deputy Assistant to the President and Deputy Chief of Staff to the Vice President (backbench)
T.H. Deanne Millison, Special Assistant to the President and Chief Economic Advisor to the Vice President (backbench)
Mr. Dean Lieberman, Special Advisor to the Vice President (backbench)
Ms. Cecily Brewer, Member, Policy Planning Staff, U.S. Department of State (backbench)
Ms. Amalia Bersin, Director for Coastal West Africa, National Security Council (backbench)


Ghana Delegation:

President Nana Akufo-Addo, Ghana
T.H. Akosua Frema Osei-Opare, Chief of Staff to the President
T.H. Shirley Ayorkor, Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Ghana
T.H. Albert Kan-Dapaah, Minister for National Security
T.H. Dominic Nitiwul, Minister for Defense
T.H. Ken Ofori-Atta, The Minister for Finance
T.H. Ambrose Dery, Minister for Interior
T.H. Kwaku Afriyie, Minister for Environment, Science, Technology, and Innovation
T.H. Abdulai Jinapor, Acting Minister for Trade and Industry
T.H. Hawa Koomson, Acting Minister for Agriculture
T.H. Lariba Zuweira-Abudu, Minister of Gender, Children and Social Protection
Mr. Nana Bediatuo Asante, Secretary to the President
H.E. Alima Mahama, Ambassador of the Republic of Ghana to the United States








March 27, 2023 16:16 GMT

VP supplemental pool #5 skate park
Vice President Harris left the RON at approximately 2:50 PM for her visit to the Freedom Skatepark. At 3:12 PM, Harris entered the park with the actor Sheryl Lee Ralph. A group of skateboarders rode in the park directly to their left. Harris was shown the art designs on the outside wall of Vibrate Space, a community recording studio for young creatives.
Your pooler was then brought inside the indoor skate room of the Vibrate Space. A couple members of the center sat playing UNO. Harris then walked in with Ralph, as well as the actor Idris Alba.
"They are working at the skate park everyday," one staff member told Harris. "So it's also an opportunity to create job opportunities." The staff member added the teenagers also learn accounting at the center.
"We are all learning from scratch," the staff member told Harris. "Let us hope for the next generation in here."
"Yes," Harris responded. Alba also nodded.
Pool was then rushed out of the room and brought to the main area of Vibrate Space.
Each of the Ghanaian artists in the room introduced themselves. Harris then began speaking.
"For me to be able to come here during this trip on my first full day really is symbolic of the connection that we have as people and a nation," she said.
"But the creative work that is happening on this continent, as represented by the work happening in Ghana, is extraordinary," she said.
"What is happening here is changing the way people kind of enjoy themselves," a smiling Harris said as she gave a slight jig of the shoulders.
"There is so much about our ability to receive music that is about receiving universal language," Harris said.
"The work that's happening here is influencing and bringing joy to people around the world," she said.
Harris then turned to Ralph, who sang "Endangered Species" to the room.
"You must invest in yourself, in your art first," she then said. "And then you put it out into the world."
Idris Alba then praised the local artists and the work in the center. We were then hustled out. We got to the RON at roughly 3:50 PM.
Passing along background on the visit:
Vice President Harris will visit Vibrate Space, a community recording studio for young creatives located at Freedom Skatepark in Accra, as part of her effort to engage directly with young people and highlight the dynamism and creativity taking place across the continent. There, she will tour the facility and meet with a group of musicians including up-and-coming artists that represent the new generation of West African entertainers. Her visit will spotlight the growing creative economy and underscore the strong links between our nation's artistic and diaspora communities. The Vice President will be joined by Actors Idris Elba and Sheryl Lee Ralph.
Vibrate opened in 2022 in partnership with Kendrick Lamar's company pgLang, Spotify, and local sports NGO Surf Ghana. Vibrate aims to empower young people by equipping aspiring music entrepreneurs with the necessary tools to compete in the global music market.
Additional background on Vibrate Space and Ghanian music industry:

Vibrate runs a music business educational program that includes public workshops (called "masterclasses") dedicated to acquiring hands-on skills like recording, mixing, mastering, and DJing to cater to the diverse needs of Ghana's dynamic music industry. Previous masterclasses have attracted more than 200 people at each session to learn about live performances, songwriting, and producing from musicians from Nigeria, South Africa, and other parts of the continent. 
Vibrate is located at Freedom Skatepark, Ghana's first fully functioning skateboard park, which uses action sports as a driver for creative self-expression, social inclusion, and female empowerment. 
Accra has developed a reputation as a music destination after attracting huge crowds to the Global Citizen Festival, Afronation, Afrochella, and the Black Star Line Festival between September 2022 and January 2023. 
Kendrick Lamar chose to release his latest album in May 2022 while in Accra. Freedom Skatepark has drawn visits from well-known American artists traveling to Ghana, including Kendrick Lamar, Chance the Rapper, and Pharrell Williams, as well as partnerships with the late fashion designer Virgil Abloh and Vans.

 UPDATE

Upon arrival, the Vice President will be greeted by Vibrate Space Founder, Sandy Alibo, music artists Black Sherif, Amaarae, and Moses Sumney. They will give the Vice President a tour of Skatepark, which will conclude with a stop at the Vibrate skate shop.
After the tour, the Vice President will head to Vibrate Studio Common Place where she will meet and hear from two musicians, Baaba J and Ansah Live. The conversation will be facilitated by Phiona Okumu, Spotify's Head of Music for Sub-Saharan Africa. The following artists will also be present:

Joey B
Ria Boss
TMSKD DJ
Poetra Asantewa
Three Artists of All My Cousins Collectivr (Ansah, Narah, and Cozy)



Additional information on the artists the Vice President will meet:
Black Sherif (Mohammed Ismail Sherif Kwaku Frimpong) is a Ghanaian singer and rapper. Black Sherif was born and raised in Konongo-Zongo, in the Ashanti Region of Ghana. His nomadic lifestyle exposed him to multiple influences and different cultures at a very early age—including attending Islamic School growing up. He is a former student of the University of Professional Studies (UPSA) and is currently studying at the University of Ghana. Black Sherif began his career in 2019 and his breakthrough came in March 2022, with his single "Kwaku the Traveller". He then won the Best Hip Hop award at the Soundcity MVP Awards in February 2023 in Lagos. Sherif's music is a blend of highlife, reggae, and hip-hop, specifically UK drill.
Amaarae (Ama Serwah Genfi) is a Ghanaian singer known for her work around representation of gender and race in music. In 2021 her song "Sad Girlz Luv Money" was remixed with a feature from Kali Uchis, and became a popular song on social media, streaming platforms, and charted globally. Amaarae was named one of Apple Music Africa's Favourite New Artists in April 2018 and later that year became an Apple Music Beats 1 featured artist for her debut project "Passionfruit Summers". She has also been acknowledged for her sense of style and featured in Vogue Magazine. Amaarae was born in Accra, Ghana but was raised in between the US and Ghana.
Moses Sumney is a Ghanaian-American singer-songwriter. He was born in California and raised by pastor parents. Moving back and forth Ghana and the US, He described his childhood as "Americanized" and had difficulty adjusting to the culture of Ghana—in which he grew up in a rural goat farm. He attended the University of California, Los Angeles and majored in creative writing, studying poetry. When he broke in the LA music scene, labels tried to conform him into a certain image he did not agree with. His first full album, Aromanticism (2017) was names one of the best albums of 2017 and received acclaim from Rolling Stone, The Guardian, and The NYT. Several songs from the album have been featured in the soundtracks of various television shows. Sumney himself has played in different shows and appeared in the movie "Creed"—working on the soundtrack as well.
Baaba J is a recent Ghanian artist and started making professional music 3 years ago. She performs in English, Pidgin, and Ga, weaving messages that celebrate individuality, originality, and freedom. She wants to show people that they can be "unconventional but still reach their goals". She has written music about police brutality—a problem she mentions is placing the whole world: Africa, US, and the UK and her experiences growing up in Ghana. She has performed at Accra Indie Film Festival, The Crusade, and The MiM Life Concert. She grew up in Tema—a small city in Ghana.
Mensa Ansah, better known as M3NSA is a British Ghanaian producer, composer, rapper, singer and filmmaker. M3NSA's career began as a member of The Lifeline Family, a rap group he founded. Known for his recognizable sound and instinctual storytelling, he has grown into an international sensation through the years because of his ability to navigate different languages, cultures, and art expressions. As a music artist, M3NSA has toured with musicians such as the Wu-Tang Clan, and The Roots. He has also served as a producer for various Ghanaian musicians, some of which include Samini, KK Fosu, Obour and Tic Tac.
Joey B (Darryl Bannerman-Martin), is an award winning Ghanaian musician who has been active in the music industry for over a decade. He is well known for his fusion of hip-hop and highlife, which has established him as one of the leading voices on the Ghanaian music scene. Born in Cape Coast, Ghana, he began writing music at the age of six. He has collaborated with artists such as Sarkodie, EL, Fuse ODG, Edem, and produced many hit songs such as "Tong", "Pinch mah Nips", and "Strawberry". He was nominated the Hip-life/Hiphop Artist of the Year at the 2021 Vodafone Ghana Music Awards.
Ria Boss (Maria Emmanuelle Grace Bossman-Damiba) is a Ghanaian-Burkinabe R&B/Soul female vocalist and songwriter who was born in London and raised in Ghana. She was "self-made" in 2012 and releasing songs actively since 2017. When she was younger, she took piano lessons and started singing later in Harlem, NYC—influenced by neo-soul sounds. Her songs encourage uncovering emotional honesty and her one song "Find Your Free" was an open love letter to African women.
THE MASKED DJ (TMSKD DJ or Michelle Nana Adwoa Agyakomah Yeboah) is an electronic/African dance music DJ based in Accra, Ghana. She is one of the few disc jockeys in Ghana and has a versatile skill set of introducing and fusing alternative sounds in her live performances. She decided to wear a mask in 2015 to highlight her craft as a DJ because most audiences focus on her gender rather than her skills. Her platform FEMME VIBES BRAND showcases female DJs every year during Women's Month.
Poetra (Ama Asantewa Diaka) is a young Ghanian artist living between Ghana and the United States. She defines herself as a "storyteller" and is known to the media as a "creative powerhouse". Her debut collection of poems in her anthology/book "Woman, Eat Me Whole" explores womanhood, the body—and perceptions of beauty, metal illness, and what it means to move between cultures. These themes of self-acceptance and mental health are also found in her music and other poetry. She is the founder and director of the NGO Black Girls Glow— "an initiative to foster collaborations among women artists and explore ways that art can build community." She completed her undergraduate degree in Business information Systems and working in the corporate technology business which informed her transition into the arts.
All My Cousins All My Cousins is a group of six creatives, including singers, a DJ, photographer, filmmaker, and a producer. The group is about friends or "cousins" coming together to discuss, connect, and co-create, supporting each other in individual and group artistic endeavors. The group recently worked with U.S. hat brand New Era to produce the short documentary on Vibrate Studio. Three music-focused members of the collective– Ansah Live, Narah, and Cozy, will attend on behalf of the group.


March 27, 2023 16:24 GMT

Vp supplemental pool #6 Idris ELBA
To make up for spelling Idris Elba's name incorrectly in the previous pool report, here is an otter of a gaggle he did with the pool. "Of course," he said when asked if VP would make a good president.
https://otter.ai/u/dhJnKMVjdznA8JIjOPqvPE1F8lI


March 27, 2023 19:31 GMT

VP supplemental pool #7 state dinner arrival
The Vice President and Second Gentleman walked into the Jubilee House at 7:12 PM for the State Banquet.
Wearing a white dress, Ms. Harris shook hands with President Akufo-Addo and told him she noticed the red, white and blue decorations outside. SG Doug Emhoff told the First Lady of Ghana it was "good to see you again."
As VP Harris and President Akufo-Addo walked to the dinner, your pooler overheard her tell the president, "it's a beautiful evening."
Pool is now holding.
Below find background on the banquet:
Additional information on the dinner tonight below, including the full expected guest list.
On background from a White House Official: Tonight, the Vice President and Second Gentleman will attend a State Banquet hosted by President Akufo-Addo and First Lady Rebecca Akufo-Addo of Ghana. The banquet will bring together prominent members of the African diaspora and individuals from Ghana. This banquet advances the Biden-Harris Administration's commitment to strengthen ties between our people in recognition of our longstanding bonds.
++++
This evening, Vice President Harris and Second Gentleman will attend a State Banquet hosted by President Akufo-Addo and First Lady Rebecca Akufo-Addo of Ghana. The following is a complete list of expected guests: THE VICE PRESIDENT AND MR. EMHOFF HIS EXCELLENCY NANA AKUFO-ADDO, PRESIDENT OF GHANA AND MRS. REBECCA AKUFO-ADDO T.H. Virginia Palmer & Mr. Ismail Asmal, American Ambassador to the Republic of Ghana T.H. Chris Coons U.S. Senator, Delaware T.H. Sheila Cherfilus-McCormick U.S. Representative, Florida T.H. Phil Gordon Assistant to the President and National Security Advisor to the Vice President T.H. Lorraine Voles Assistant to the President and Chief of Staff to the Vice President T.H. Erin Wilson Deputy Assistant to the President and Deputy Chief of Staff to the Vice President T.H. Jordan Brooks Deputy Assistant to the President and Chief of Staff to the Second Gentleman T.H. Stephanie Young Deputy Assistant to the President and Senior Advisor to the Vice President T.H. Johnnie Carson Special Representative for US- Africa Leaders Summit Implementation T.H. Rebecca Lissner Special Assistant to the President and Deputy National Security Advisor to the Vice President T.H. Deanne Millison Special Assistant to the President and Chief Economic Advisor to the Vice President T.H. Kirsten Allen Special Assistant to the President and Press Secretary to the Vice President T.H. Rachel Vogelstein Special Assistant to the President for Gender Policy Ms. Amalia Bersin Director for Coastal West Africa, National Security Council Ms. Nicole Chulick & Mr. Peter Zirnite, Deputy Chief of Mission, U.S. Embassy Accra Ms. Jamille Bigio Senior Coordinator for Gender Equality and Women's Empowerment, USAID Ms. Cecily Brewer Member, Policy Planning Staff, U.S. Department of State Ms. Alethea Harney Senior Engagement Advisor, Office of the Second Gentleman Mrs. Deniece Laurent-Mantey Special Advisor on U.S.-Africa Leaders Summit Implementation, U.S. Department of State Mr. Dean Lieberman Special Advisor to the Vice President Ms. Safia Mohamoud Special Advisor for Africa Ms. Asel Roberts Senior Advisor to the Chief of Protocol of the United States Mr. Abdul Abdullah & Ms. Adjoa Adjei-Twum , Founder & CEO, Culture Management Group & AfroFuture Festival Mr. Danny Bakewell & Mrs. Aline Bakewell, Owner, the Bakewell Company, LA Sentinel Ms. Ingrid Best & Ms. Rikki Hughes, CEO, iBest Wines Dr. Amos Brown & Mrs. Jane Brown, Pastor, Third Baptist Church Ms. Glynda Carr & Ms. Tracy Sturdivant , President, CEO, and Co-Founder, Higher Heights Ms. Rosario Dawson & Ms. Abrima Erwiah, Actor Ms. Morgan Debaun & Mr. Michael Rutledge Debaun, CEO, Blavity  Ms. Somachi Chris-Asoluka CEO, Tony Elumelu Foundation Mr. Idris Elba & Ms. Ashley Harewood, Actor Wayne Frederick President, Howard University Dr. George French & Mrs. French, President, Clark Atlanta University Mr. Derrick Johnson & Mrs. Letitia Johnson, President, NAACP Ms. Tonya Lee Lewis Producer Mr. Spike Lee Film Maker and Actor Mrs. Sheryl Lee Ralph & Reverend Michelle Hammond, Actor and Singer T.H. Loretta Lynch 83rd United States Attorney General Mr. Scott Mills & Ms. Chanda Gibson, CEO, BET Mr. Marc Morial & Mrs. Michelle Milller, President, National Urban League Ms. Jessica Nabongo & Mr. Benjamin Ntim, World Traveler Ms. Maude Okrah & Ms. Adjoa Adofo, CEO & Founder, BonntiBeauty Mrs. Brittany Packnett & Mr. Reginald Cunningham, Vice President of Social Impact, BET Mr. Chris Rey & Mr. Michael Darko, International President, Phi Beta Sigma Mr. Rashad Robinson & Mr. Amin Gates, President, Color of Change Lady Ashley Shaw-Scott Adjaye & , Global Head of Research at Adjaye Associates Ms. Bozoma St. John & Mr. Sam Barrington, American Marketing Executive Ms. Caroline Wanga & Ms. Barkue Tubman, CEO, ESSENCE Ventures Mrs. Rosa Whitaker & Mr. Anai Williams, President & CEO, The Whitaker Group Mr. Kehinde Wiley & Ms. Kenneth Okorie, Artist Dr. David Wilson President, Morgan State University Mr. Kevin Young Director, Museum of African American History and Culture Ayesha Bedwei President, American Chamber of Commerce in Ghana, Global People Leader-Tax and Legal Services, PwC Amb Dr. Erieka Bennett Founder and Head of Mission of the (AU) Diaspora African Forum Dr. Emmanuel Gyimah-Boadi Founder of Afrobarometer, Founder of Center for Democratic Development Sir Sam Jonah Chancellor, University of Cape Coast, Executive Chairman Jonah Capital Mr. Victor Williams CEO, NBA Lady Giselle Jonah Owner, Marriott Japhet Aryiku  Patrick Awuah Founder and President of Ashesi University Joe Mensah SVP and Head of Ghana Business Unit, Kosmos Energy, President (emeritus) American Chamber of Commerce Edmund Poku Chairman, Niche Cocoa (Built chocolate factory in Wisconsin highlighted at ALS) Barbara Burlingame Director, UN Food and Agriculture Program Kyle Kelhofer Director, International Finance Corporation (IFC) Ghana H.E. Nana Addo Dankwa Akufo-Addo, President Of The Republic Of Ghana Mrs. Rebecca Akufo-Addo, First Lady Of The Republic Of Ghana H.E. Alhaji Dr. Mahamudu Bawumia, Vice President Of The Republic Rt. Hon. Alban Sumana Kingsford Bagbin, Speaker Of Parliament His Lordship Justice Kwasi Anin Yeboah, Chief Justice His Lordship Justice Dotse, Justice Of The Supreme Court His Lordship Justice Boffoe -Bonnie, Justice Of The Supreme Court Her Ladyship Justice Gertrude Torkornoo, Justice Of The Supreme Court His Lordship Justice Yonny Kulendi, Justice Of The Supreme Court Her Ladyship Justice Cynthia Pamela Addo, Justice Of The Supreme Court H.E. Mr. John Agyekum Kufuor + 2, Former President Of The Republic H.E. Mr. John Dramani Mahama, Former President Of The Republic H.E. Mrs. Konadu Agyeman Rawlings, Former First Lady Hon. Nana Otuo Siriboe Ii, Chairman, Council Of State Sam Okudzeto, Council Of State Georgina T. Wood, Council Of State Archbishop Justice Offei Akrofi, Council Of State Prof. Margaret Amoakohene , Council Of State Alhaji Sulemana Yirimea, Council Of State Hon. Akosua Frema Osei-Opare, Chief Of Staff Hon. Shirley Ayorkor Botchwey, Minister For Foreign Affairs & Regional Integration Hon. Ken Ofori-Atta, Minister For Finance Hon. Lariba Zuweira Abudu, Minister For Gender Hon. Albert Kan Dapaah, Minister For National Security Hon. Dominic Nitiwul, Minister For Defence Hon. Ambrose Dery, Minister For The Interior Hon. Godfred Dame, Attorney General & Minister For Justice Hon. Ursula Owusu Ekuful, Minister For Communications & Digitalisation Hon. Kojo Oppong Nkrumah, Minister For Information Hon. Dr. Matthew Opoku Prempeh, Minister For Energy Hon. Dr. Yaw Osei Adutwum, Minister For Education Hon. Samuel Abdulai Jinapor, Minister For Lands & Natural Resources Hon. Cecilia Abena Dapaah, Minister For Sanitation & Water Resources Hon. Awal Ibrahim Mohammed, Minister For Tourism, Culture & Creative Arts Hon. Henry Quartey, Greater Accra Regional Minister  Nana Bediatuo Asante, Secretary To The President Mad. Mercy Debrah-Karikari, Secretary To The Cabinet Hon. Yaw Osafo -Maafo, Snr. Advisor To The President Brig. Gen. Emmanuel Okyere, National Security Advisor Kow Essuman, Esq., Legal Counsel To The President Mr. Augustine Blay, Secretary To Vice President Mr. Eugene Arhin, Director Of Communications Amb. Samuel Kumah, Director Of State Protocol Ms. Saratu Atta, Personal Assistant To The President Mr. Henry M. Woode, Chief Director Ms. Elizabeth Utuka, A. To Vice President Mr. Lord Oblitey Commey, Director Of Operations Dr. Patrina Tekyi-Ankrah, Physician Mr. Duke Ofori Atta, Director Of Programmes Amb. Michael Ofori Atta, Director, Ecowas And Regional Mrs.Angela Asante, Presidential Advisor, Gender & Dev Mr. Philip Aning, Director, Protocol Enoch Osei Mensah, Chief Protocol, Office Of The Vice President Mr. Tanco, Deputy Director, State Protocol Department Mrs. Oboshie Sai Cofie, Presidential Advisor (Media & Strategic Communications) Clara Napaga Tia Sulemana, Office Of The President Amb. Samuel Kumah, Director, State Protocol Amb. Ahmed Hassan, Ambassador At Large Akwesi Ababio Awuah, Office Of The President Nadia Adongo Musah, Office Of The President Mrs. Doris Gafatchi, Director, Fin. & Admin. - State Protocol Dr. Ernest Addison, Governor, Bank Of Ghana Dr. Maxwell Opoku, 1st Deputy Governor, Bank Of Ghana Mrs. Elsie Awadzi, 2nd Deputy Governor, Bank Of Ghana Vice Adm. Seth Amoama, Chief Of The Defence Staff Dr. George Akuffo Dampare, Inspector General Of Police Maj. Gen. Thomas Oppong - Peprah, Chief Of The Army Staff Rear Admiral Adams Yakubu, Ag. Chief Of The Naval Staff Avm Frederick Asare Kwasi Bekoe, Chief Of The Air Staff Alhaji Seidu Iddrisu Iddisah, Ag. Commissioner, Customs Division Rev. Dr. Ammishaddai Owusu - Amoah, Commissioner - General, GRA Mr. Julius Kuunuor Aalebkure, Chief Fire Officer Mr. Isaac Kofi Egyir, Director-General Of Prisons Mr Kwame Asuah Takyi, Comptroller-General, Ghana Immigration Service Hon. Osei Kyei-Mensah-Bonsu, Majority Leader, Parliament Of Ghana  Hon. Dr. Casiel Ato Forson, Minority Leader, Parliament Of Ghana Hon. Bryan Acheampong, Chairman, Parliamentary Select Committee On Foreign Affairs Hon. Samuel Okudzeto Ablakwa, Ranking Member, Parliamentary Select Committee On Foreign Affairs Amb. Hajia Halima Mahama , Ghana's Ambassador To The United States Of America Yofi Grant, CEO, GIPC Mr. Alex Apau Dadey, Board Chairman, GIPC Amb. Joseph Ramses Cleland , Ag. Chief Director, Ministry Of Foreign Affairs And Regional Integration Mr. Manful William, Director- Americas Bureau, Ministry Of Foreign Affairs And Regional Integration Mr. Takyi Mensah, Chief Of Protocol, Ministry Of Foreign Affairs And Regional Integration Diplomatic Corps, Ecowas Ambassador To Ghana, Afbd, Imf, World Bank, Ifc Asamoah Gyan, Captain General- Ghana Football Association Stephen Appiah, Former Captain- Ghana Football Association Sarpong Boateng, Paa Kofi Ansong Mr. Justin Frimpong Kodua , General Secretary, NPP Mr. Stephen Ayesu Ntim, National Chairman, NPP Hon. Hackman Owusu-Agyemang, Chairman, Council Of Elders, NPP Wamkele Keabetswe Mene, Secretary General Of AFCFTA Charles Abani, Un Resident Coordinator H.E Hajia Alima Mahama, Ghana's Ambassador to the USA Rt. Rev. Prof. J.O.Y. Mante, Chairman, Chriatian Council Of Ghana / Moderator, Presbyterian Archbishop Duncan Williams, President, Charismatic And Christian Churches Apostle Eric Kwabena Nyamekye, President, Ghana Pentecostal And Charismatic Council Most Rev. Mathew Gyamfi, President Of The Catholic Bishops Conference Most Rev Dr. Paul Kwabena Boafo, Presiding Bishop, Methodist Church Of Ghana Rt. Rev. Prof. Daniel Yinka Sarfo, Anglican Church Of Ghana Sheikh Dr.. Osumanu Nuhu Sharubutu, National Chief Imam Ameer Alhaji Maulvi Mohammed Bin Salih, Ahmadiyya Mission Of Ghana Apostle Prof. Opoku Onyinah, Chairman Of The Board Of Trustees Of The National Cathedral Ogyeahohoo Yaw Gyebi, President, National House Of Chiefs His Royal Majesty King Tackie Teiko Tsuru Ii, Ga Mantse Nii Kwabena Bornney V, Osu Alate Mantse Yaw Acheampong Boafo, President, Ghana Bar Association Nana Aba Appiah Amfo, Vice Chancellor, University Of Ghana Mrs. Jean Mensa, Chairperson, Electoral Commission Ms. Kathleen Addy, Chairperson, NCCE Rev. Richard Kwasi Yeboah, Chairperson, Trade Union Congress Dr. Anthony Yaw Baah, General Sec. Trades Union Congress Albert Kwabena Dwumfour, President, Ghana Journalists Association Prof. Esi Sutherland-Addy, Institute Of African Studies, UG Prof. Samuel Ntewusu, Institute Of African Studies, UG Abena Amoah, Managing Director, Ghana Stock Exchange Humphrey Ayim-Darke, President, Association Of Ghana Industries Mr. Samuel Christian Appenteng, President, Ghana National Chamber Of Commerce And Industry Tony Oteng-Gyasi, Executive Chairman, Tropical Cables And Conductor Ltd. President/Ceo, Newmont Ghana, CEO, Endeavor Ms. Angela Kyeremanten-Jimoh, Board Member, Bank Of Ghana Kwasi Osei Ofori, CEO, Rocksure International Opoku Ahweneeh Danquah, CEO, Ghana National Petroleum Corporation (Gnpc) Benjamin K. D. Asante, CEO, Ghana Gas Dr. Anarfi Asamoah Baah, National Coordinator, Covid-19 Task Force Ms. Veronica Bekoe, Inventor Of The Veronica Bucket


March 27, 2023 21:39 GMY

VP supplemental pool #8 state banquet toast and comment on Tennessee
The state banquet was held under a tent on the grounds of the Jubilee House. White curtains draped the sides of the hall. Chandeliers hung from the ceiling. Guests in tuxedos, traditional attire and gowns sat on white chairs at long dining tables stretched across the room.
A band played at the back of the room. At the front, a head table was behind a lectern. Officials in suits and traditional attire sat behind the candlelit table.
At 8 PM, many of the vice presidents staffers entered the hall, along with Black American civil rights leaders, activists and celebrities.
At 8:08 PM, the Vice President and President Akufo-Addo entered the state banquet. They were trailed by the Second Gentleman and First Lady of Ghana.
The leaders took their seats and were introduced by a moderator.
President Akufo-Addo was the first to speak. He stepped to the lectern and welcomed the VP and her staff.
"She was elected the vice president of the United States of America," he said. "The first female and the first person of African and Asian descent to occupy that office." The crowd broke in applause.
"My hope is that our two nations and peoples will continue to deepen the bonds of friendship and collaboration between us," the president said, adding that both Ghana and the United States were committed to democratic values and human rights.
He then tacked through the history of U.S. politicians and civil rights leaders who visited Ghana, including Martin Luther King Jr. He talked about how President Clinton visited in 1998, President Bush visited in 2008 and President Obama. He also noted President Trump's "failure" to visit, prompting laughs from the crowd.
He said he hoped President Biden would resume the tradition.
"We're encouraged by the fact more United States companies are looking to invest in Ghana," he said.
He also said the VP's honorary Ghanaian name would be "Abena," meaning one who is born on Tuesday. He spoke for roughly 20 minutes.
The VP then gave her toast. She began by commenting on the shooting in Tennessee. 
"We don't have all the details yet," Harris said. "We do know that because of this terrible act of violence, parents have lost children, families have lost loved ones and this community has been changed forever. To the people of Nashville, please know we are thinking of you. You are in our prayers."
Shen then moved on to her toast. She spoke for about 10 minutes.
"You take great joy in reminding us all that where we come from should always bid a glorious vision of where ultimately can be," Harris said.
She said members of the diaspora from all over the world have traveled to Ghana to learn about their history and the legacy of slavery.
"President Joe Biden and I are committed to celebrating and strengthening the longstanding ties that connect our people and our nation. These ties are a source of pride," she said.
She said it's been an honor to work with Afuko-Addo.
We were led out at roughly 8:45 PM. 



  