
    Today, following President Joe Biden's State of the Union, Vice President Kamala Harris and Secretary of Labor Marty Walsh traveled to Durham, North Carolina to highlight the Biden-Harris Administration's investment in workers who are building America. The Vice President participated in a tour of the IBEW local 553 apprentice program at Durham Technical Community College, where she met with union workers. The Vice President also delivered remarks emphasizing the Administration's commitment to creating good-paying union jobs.
This visit builds upon the White House Task Force on Worker Organizing and Empowerment Report, which ensures the federal government is marshalling every resource to invest in our workers.
Read more below:
WRAL: VP Kamala Harris gives nod to union workers, working class in speech at Durham Tech[Adam Owens, 3/2/2022]
Vice President Kamala Harris traveled to Durham on Wednesday to discuss the Biden administration's initiative to strengthen the economy and raise quality of life for working-class Americans. U.S. Secretary of Labor Marty Walsh joined Harris to discuss the administration's investments in union jobs.
On Wednesday morning, Harris toured the IBEW local 553 apprentice program at Durham Technical Community College, stopping to visit with instructor Brian Wesley, who told the vice president he lived in a home where money was tight. He credits the union he joined with changing that for him and his family.
Following the tour, Harris spoke about the Biden administration's "historic investment" into American workers. North Carolina Gov. Roy Cooper was also present. Harris also addressed the Ukraine situation, noting that "the brave people of Ukraine are fighting to defend their freedom and integrity" and that Americans stand with them.
The News and Observer: In Durham, VP Kamala Harris heralds union jobs as future of US economic recovery[Dawn Baumgartner Vaughn, Avi Bajpai and Penelope Blackwell, 3/2/2022]
The American economy is emerging strong from nearly two years of pandemic-induced disruptions and losses, and the best way forward is to create more jobs that allow workers to organize for better wages and save more money, Vice President Kamala Harris said Wednesday. In her third trip to North Carolina since taking office, Harris came to Durham, having most recently visited the Triangle while campaigning in 2020. For this visit, she was joined locally by Democratic Gov. Roy Cooper and Durham Mayor Elaine O'Neal along with Democratic state lawmakers and members of Congress at Durham Technical Community College, where she gave her speech. She spoke about the Biden administration's efforts to create more "good-paying, union jobs" throughout the country and promote collective bargaining in both the public and private sectors. Accompanying her from Washington was U.S. Labor Secretary Marty Walsh, as well as U.S. Reps. David Price and G.K. Butterfield.
"As a nation we have made real progress in our fight to end this pandemic, and get our economy back to normal. And with more than 215 million people vaccinated, our communities are more protected from this virus than they've ever been before," Harris said to a small crowd of invited guests at Durham Tech. "And that said, the president and I know the fight is not yet won."
WBTW: VP Kamala Harris visits Durham Tech with Gov. Cooper[Kayla Morton, Jeff Reeves, and Michael Hyland, 3/2/2022]
Harris came to Durham Technical Community College to tour the IBEW Local 553 apprentice training program. U.S. Labor Sec. Marty Walsh joined her along with Gov. Roy Cooper (D), and Democratic U.S. Reps. David Price and G.K. Butterfield. […]
Harris also discussed efforts by the administration to make it easier for workers to unionize, saying North Carolina is among states that has "work to do." The state has blocked public sector workers from bargaining collectively for decades.
"There are still powerful forces that are hard at work trying to build barriers to stop workers from organizing," said Harris.
ABC 11: Vice President Kamala Harris touts, labor, jobs in visit to Durham Tech[DeJuan Hoggard, 3/2/2022]
Harris toured Durham Technical Community College. She was joined by Labor Secretary Marty Walsh, one of several Cabinet officials who were traveling on Wednesday. […]
Last year, Biden tapped Harris and Walsh to lead a task force on labor. Earlier this year, the taskforce submitted a report listing 70 policy proposals. Those proposals, according to Walsh, would help strengthen workers' rights across the country.
"We see the potential for growth in terms of the diversity, in terms of the inclusion, in terms of America's workforce and our future," Harris said. "And I met some of those great stars and leaders today who I believe are all part of a new era of the American labor movement. A movement that you all helped build right here. Which is why we are visiting with you this morning. A movement big enough to lift up every age, every walk of life, every race, every gender. After all, every person should be able to benefit from the power of solidarity."
  