
    "Of the 6.4 million new barrels of oil that will be pumped every day between now and 2023, almost 60% will come from the U.S., the IEA said."
U.S. Will Be the World's Largest Oil Producer by 2023, Says IEA 
By Sarah Kent and Timothy Puko
The Wall Street Journal
March 5, 2018
The U.S. will overtake Russia to become the world's largest oil producer by 2023, accounting for most of the global growth in petroleum supplies, a top industry monitor said Monday.
U.S. crude production is expected to reach a record of 12.1 million barrels a day in 2023, up about 2 million barrels a day from this year, said the International Energy Agency, which advises governments and corporations on industry trends. American oil output will surge past Russia, currently the world's largest crude producer at about 11 million barrels a day.
...
The IEA's closely watched five-year forecast showed the U.S. hitting new strides in its oil and gas boom, helped by technological advances, improved efficiency and a fragile recovery in oil prices that is encouraging shale companies to ramp up their drilling. Once heavily dependent on imports from the Middle East, the U.S. is getting closer to achieving its goal of producing enough crude to meet domestic demand for refined products like gasoline.
Of the 6.4 million new barrels of oil that will be pumped every day between now and 2023, almost 60% will come from the U.S., the IEA said. "And I can tell you our expectations may well need to be revised upwards if prices are higher," Mr. Birol said.
American influence on global oil markets is also expected to rise, with U.S. oil exports more than doubling to 4.9 million barrels a day by 2023, according to the IEA. Until 2015, the U.S. didn't export any crude oil by law, but in five years it is expected to be among the world's biggest exporters.
...
Counting all liquids, including those derived from natural gas, U.S. production will rise to nearly 17 million barrels a day over the next five years from about 13 million today, the IEA said, far more than Saudi Arabia or Russia.
...
Read the full article here.
  