
    This story first appeared in 1600 Daily, the White House's evening newsletter. Subscribe now...to get breaking news from President Trump before anyone else.
President Trump and the White House Coronavirus Task Force announced additional actions today as part of the ongoing, government-wide response to the global pandemic:

To help American families and businesses, the Treasury Department announced that Tax Day will be moved from April 15 to July 15. No interest or penalties will be charged for filing during this extended window, but any American expecting refunds or credits may claim now to get their money sooner.
To minimize impact on our nation's students, the Department of Education is temporarily waiving all interest on federally held student loans. Secretary Betsy DeVos has also directed federal lenders to allow borrowers to suspend their student loan payments without penalty for at least the next 60 days.
Early, decisive travel restrictions helped slow the spread of Coronavirus to our country. Today, Secretary of State Mike Pompeo announced that the United States and Mexico have agreed to restrict non-essential travel across their border.
More help is on the way. The Trump Administration worked with Congress last week on a bipartisan deal to deliver economic relief and support for American families, which the President signed into law on Wednesday. More legislative action is expected soon.

Watch today's full briefing with President Trump.
Something to share: You make America great and proud. Thank you!
WATCH: What you need to know
This week, President Trump issued a nationwide call to action for every American to help slow the spread of Coronavirus.
Top health officials from the CDC and across the government are here to help:

Together apart: What is social distancing?
Dr. Deborah Birx: Who needs to be tested?
Surgeon General: Is it still safe to donate blood?
Dr. Anthony Fauci: What to do if you feel sick?

SUBSCRIBE NOW
1600 Daily is the White House's evening newsletter. Subscribe now to get breaking news from President Trump before anyone else.SIGN UP
  