
    The President today announced the appointment of 11 members of the President's Commission on United States-Liberian Relations. They are:
THEODORE R. HAGANS, JR., a Washington, D.C., businessman, developer of the New Fort Lincoln residential community, and president of the National Business League.
ROBERT J. LOWEN, president of the Masters, Mates, and Pilots Division of the International Longshoremen's Association. He is a graduate of the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy and has been master of U.S. flagship merchant vessels for 15 years. He has worked with Liberian officials to establish training procedures for merchant marine officers.
JAMES H. McGEE, mayor of Dayton, Ohio. Dayton is the sister city of Monrovia, Liberia.
LEANN J. McGRANAHAN, a student in the doctoral program in agricultural economics at Iowa State University and a former Peace Corps volunteer in Liberia.
EUNICE LOCKHAET Moss, president of a management consulting firm for small businesses in Milwaukee, Wis., and a former participant in such programs as the Overseas Development Council Transnational Dialogue Project.
FRANK E. PINDER, a former official of the U.S. Agency for International Development with extensive experience in economic development in Liberia.
THOMAS QUEEN, executive director of California Regional of Oakland, Calif., an investment banking firm.
PREZELL R. ROBINSON, president of St. Augustine's College, Raleigh, N.C. He is a former scholar in residence at Nairobi University.
RANDALL M. ROBINSON, executive director of Trans-Africa, a Washington-based lobby for Africa and the Caribbean.
CARLETON M. STEWART, chairman of the board and chief executive officer of American Security Corporation and American Security Bank. He served for 4 years as senior vice president of Citibank for South Asia, Middle East, and Africa.
JAMES M. WALL, editor of Christian Century magazine.
The President of the Senate has designated Senator S. I. Hayakawa of California as a member of the Commission.
On February 22, when the establishment of this Commission was announced, it was announced that Congressman William H. Gray III will serve as Chair and that Andrew F. Brimmer, an international economist, will serve as Vice Chair.
  