
    Wasserman Schultz is the 5th Florida Member of Congress to Endorse Biden
Weston, Florida — Today, Congresswoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-23) released the following statement endorsing Joe Biden for President of the United States:
"As Floridians begin early voting for our next Democratic presidential candidate tomorrow, I am proud to endorse Joe Biden. Joe has the heart to unite our country, the experience to get big things done for the American people, and the vision to move our country beyond four years of Donald Trump's failed presidency.
"Florida knows Joe and Joe knows Florida. He has delivered for the Sunshine State by expanding access to health care, making our communities safer from gun violence, and helping our state recover after the Great Recession. I am confident as President he will do the same. Joe Biden shares our values as a true fighter for voting rights and human rights both here and abroad and as a strong supporter of Israel with a record to match. Most importantly, Joe Biden is the candidate who will be able to deliver a decisive win here in Florida, the state that will give Democrats the White House in November 2020."
This morning, Wasserman Schultz published an op-ed outlining her support for Biden in the Sun-Sentinel. Tomorrow, she will kick off an organizing event in Broward County.
Wasserman Schultz joins other leaders across Florida that have endorsed Joe Biden for President, including former Senators Bill Nelson and Bob Graham, and current Members of Congress Al Lawson (FL-5), Frederica Wilson (FL-24), Alcee Hastings (FL-20), and Charlie Crist (FL-13). Biden also has the most support from more Members of Congress of any candidate in the race with XX members backing him. l. Nationally, Biden for President has previously announced more than 1,400 endorsements from national, state, and local leaders, including current and former U.S. senators and representatives, governors, state elected officials, community leaders, and national security professionals.
  