
    WASHINGTON, DC- Today, President Obama nominated Robert R. Almonte, Dallas S. Neville and Frank Leon-Guerrero to serve as U.S. Marshals.
"These dedicated law enforcement professionals have spent their careers protecting their fellow Americans," said President Obama. "Their selfless dedication to public service is unmatched, and I am honored to nominate them to serve the American people as U.S. Marshals."
Robert R. Almonte, Nominee for U.S. Marshal for the Western District of Texas
Robert Almonte is the Executive Director of the Texas Narcotic Officers Association as well as the owner of a law enforcement training/consultant company, Narcotics Training Specialists. Mr. Almonte worked for the El Paso Texas Police Department, from 1978-2003, and rose through the ranks to Deputy Chief of the Major Crimes Bureau. Mr. Almonte received his Bachelor of Science in Criminal Justice Administration from Park University in 2002.
Dallas S. Neville, Nominee for U.S. Marshal for the Western District of Wisconsin
Dallas Neville is currently the Deputy Director of Emergency Police Services at the Department of Military Affairs in Wisconsin. From 1980-1994, he worked as a patrol officer for Clark County Sheriff's Office, and from 1994-2002, Mr. Neville was appointed by President Clinton as the U.S. Marshal for the Western District of Wisconsin. Mr. Neville was also a member of the City of Eau Claire City Council, from 2003 – 2005.
Frank Leon-Guerrero Nominee for U.S. Marshal, Districts of Guam and the Northern Mariana Islands
Frank Leon-Guerrero is the Chief Marshal for the Judiciary of Guam, a position he has held since 2006. He served as the Constituent Services Director for Delegate Madeleine Z. Bordallo from 2004 to 2006. Mr. Leon-Guerrero retired as a Police Major from the Guam Police Department in 2000 after 25 years of loyal service as a Police Officer and later as a Senior Police manager. He served in a variety of positions, including as Officer-in-Charge of the Guam Police Training Section, as Special Assistant to the Chief of Police, Commander for Agana Precinct, and he was designated as the "Incident Commander" for Guam Police in the event of a major crisis situation. Mr. Leon-Guerrero attended the University of Guam and received an Associate's Degree from Guam Community College in 1983.
  