
    Dear Madam Speaker: (Dear Mr. President:)
On November 29, 2019, the Secretary of Commerce (Secretary) transmitted to me a report on his investigation into the effect of imports of titanium sponge on the national security of the United States under section 232 of the Trade Expansion Act of 1962, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1862) (the "Act").
Consistent with the Act (19 U.S.C. 1862(c)(2)), I am reporting that in my memorandum of February 27, 2020 (The Effect of Titanium Sponge Imports on the National Security), I concurred with the Secretary's finding that titanium sponge is being imported into the United States in such quantities and under such circumstances as to threaten to impair the national security of the United States. I also agreed with the Secretary's recommendation that actions to adjust imports not be taken at that time. The Secretary advised me, and I agreed, that measures apart from the adjustment of imports are more likely to be effective to address the threatened impairment of the national security.
I took two measures to address the threatened impairment of the national security from titanium sponge imports. First, I directed the Secretary of Defense and Secretary of Commerce, along with the heads of other executive departments and agencies as the Secretaries deem appropriate, to form a working group and invite their counterpart agencies in Japan to participate in discussions with the working group in order to agree upon measures to ensure access to titanium sponge in the United States for use in national defense and critical industries in an emergency. Second, I directed the Secretary of Defense to take all appropriate action, including using his delegated authorities under the Defense Production Act of 1950 (50 U.S.C. 4501 et seq.) and seeking new appropriations as necessary, to increase access to titanium sponge for use for national defense and critical industries and to support domestic production capacity for the production of titanium sponge to meet national defense requirements. The Secretary of Defense and Secretary of Commerce will periodically update me on the progress of these efforts.
Sincerely,
DONALD J. TRUMP
  