
    
  One year anniversary of launch of the Cruz for President Campaign

HOUSTON, Texas - Presidential Candidate Ted Cruz today released the following statement celebrating the one year anniversary of the launch of the Cruz for President Campaign on March 23, 2015:
"One year ago today, we launched our presidential campaign. We did so because we still believe in the promise of America - and we believe it is far from extinguished. Heidi and I want our daughters, and your sons and daughters, to have the same opportunities that our parents and grandparents had; for anyone to be able to pursue their aspirations and achieve the unimaginable.
"A year after our announcement, this much is certain: in 302 days, President Obama will depart the White House. On that day we will have a new President of the United States, and if Republicans, conservatives, and Americans who care about the future of our country unite, it will be the beginning of a new era of freedom, prosperity, and security.
"We will no longer have to imagine rising wages and students coming out of school with three, four, or five job offers; we will adopt a simple flat tax, abolish the IRS, repeal Obamacare, and unleash unprecedented opportunity.
"Nor will we be left to imagine a president who protects all our constitutional rights - I will champion every right, starting with the right to life.
"And when it comes to national security, a strong America won't be a distant hope; it will be made real through rebuilding our military strength and leading with moral clarity. We will not bow down to political correctness; we will call radical Islamic terrorism by its name and we will defeat ISIS.
"That is the promise we are one year closer to setting in motion.
"It's been an unforgettable year, but not because of any single candidate. But because of the millions of Americans who have risen up to take this country back, and I want to thank you for standing courageously for morning in America.
"If we continue to unite, this time next year a conservative revolution will be underway. No longer will taxpayers be beholden to Congress' plush deals for special interests; instead Washington will work for you. And the only place where we'll shrink the cash flow is inside the beltway so that small businesses, families, and communities from coast to coast can once again flourish."
  