
    International Women's Day gives us the opportunity to celebrate and reflect upon the meaningful progress women have made throughout society, while also acknowledging that there is still much work that remains to be done to ensure the complete and consequential participation of women in all spheres of economic, political, and public life. Throughout our history, women have made enormous contributions in the service of our country, and we know that as a Nation, America will only become stronger, more prosperous, and better able to meet our shared goals, as women achieve greater access to a level playing field.
The United States, as a beacon of hope and a leader in promoting women's rights, is deeply committed to empowering women both at home and abroad. Our policies will work to advance the economic empowerment of women by promoting entrepreneurship and equal access to education, employment opportunities, and training adapted to a new economic landscape.
Together, America looks forward to a bright future with women in higher-wage jobs throughout high-growth sectors. America remains committed to empowering women around the world to realize their full potential within the global marketplace. And with our international partners, America will build upon the legacy of previous generations of women who have bravely broken through both economic and political barriers.
It was with these goals in mind that, as one of its first initiatives, this Administration ramped up efforts to promote women in business by launching the United States-Canada Council for Advancement of Women Entrepreneurs and Business Leaders. The United States will continue to work with Canada and other partners around the globe to ensure that all women have the opportunity to succeed.
Today, the United States renews its commitment to fostering economic growth and job creation by harnessing the full potential of women in our economy. This Administration will work diligently to encourage women to enter and succeed in the workforce while addressing the many barriers women still face in achieving economic success, including those that impede women's access to capital, markets, and networking opportunities.
  