
    Kye's at Water Tower Square
Jeffersonville, Indiana
7:41 P.M. EST
THE VICE PRESIDENT: Well, mercy. (Laughter.) Thank you very much.
Well, I'm here in southern Indiana today for one reason, and one reason only, and that's to make sure Mike Sodrel gets elected to the United States House of Representatives. (Applause.)
Now, I served in the House of Representatives for 10 years -- I was the congressman from Wyoming. We only had one congressman from Wyoming. (Laughter.) It was a small delegation, but it was quality. (Laughter.) But I came to value and, I think, be able to judge what makes a good congressman. You need somebody who has got a good solid set of values; who never forgets where he came from or how he got there; somebody who has got broad experience in the community -- in Mike's case, of course, as a small-business man; but who has got some basic fundamental beliefs about what's right for the country and what's right for the people of his district in Indiana. And Mike is exactly that kind of man.
So I look forward to welcoming him to the United States Congress in January. (Applause.) But I want to thank all of you for what you do, too, and your willingness to get involved in the effort. We had a pretty close election the last time around. (Laughter.) This one is not going to be that close. We're going to win bigger this time. (Applause.) But don't ever let anybody tell you it doesn't matter what you do in an election. When you decide the presidency by some 500 votes in one state, in Florida, you quickly come to realize that every volunteer, everybody who goes out there and rings doorbells and helps put up yard signs; and works and mans headquarters; or works the phone banks; or helps raise money -- every single piece of that activity is absolutely vital to the enterprise. And we're enormously fortunate to be Americans, to have the privilege to be able to decide who is going to govern, and to pick our leaders and then hold them accountable for their peformance. So that's the process you're all involved in. I'm delighted to see so many young folks out here today. That's always a good sign. (Applause.)
But we know you're all going to pitch in from now until November 2nd, and on November 2nd, Mike Sodrel is going to be the new congressman from Indiana. (Applause.)
END 7:45 P.M. EST
  