
    Cordray previously served as Ohio Attorney General, Treasurer, and Solicitor General
Today, former director of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) Richard Cordray released the following statement endorsing Joe Biden for the President of the United States. Cordray had previously endorsed Senator Elizabeth Warren.
"I am proud to endorse Joe Biden for President. When I led the Consumer Bureau under President Obama, Vice President Biden was our close ally as we worked together to address student loan issues and mortgage foreclosures. And, Vice President Biden helped clear the way so the new agency could be more effective in fighting to ensure that consumers were treated fairly by Wall Street and the big banks.
"As he spearheaded the White House initiative on the middle class, Joe Biden demonstrated his deep commitment to protecting and supporting people who work hard every day to make the most of their hard-earned money. He understands these issues in a very personal way and he is committed to getting results that matter in our everyday lives.
"Joe Biden is also the right person to bring this country together at a time when it has been deeply divided. Our United States is strongest when we are unified, both in our communities and in providing leadership to the world. Vice President Biden has the unique skills and stature to do that. And there is no doubt in my mind that he will restore honor and dignity to the White House."
Prior to serving as the director of the CFPB, Cordray also served as Ohio Attorney General, Treasurer, and Solicitor General.
Cordray's endorsement builds on the list of nearly 40 current and former elected officials and community leaders from across Ohio, including Congressman Tim Ryan, Congresswoman Marcia Fudge, former Ohio Governor Ted Strickland, former Congressman Edward Feighan, Columbus City Attorney Zach Klein, former Columbus City Councilmember Mary Jo Hudson, State Senator Herceal Craig, and Youngstown Mayor Tito Brown.
Biden for President has previously announced more than 1,600 endorsements from national, state, and local leaders, including current and former U.S. senators and representatives, governors, state elected officials, community leaders, and national security professionals.
  