
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate seven individuals, appoint eight individuals and designate one individual to serve in his Administration:
The President intends to nominate Jerry Gayle Bridges, of Virginia, to be Chief Financial Officer at the Corporation for National and Community Service. Mr. Bridges most recently served as Controller for Johns Hopkins University for over 18 years. Prior to that, he served as Inspector General and Assistant General for the United States Information Agency. Earlier in his career, he served the Office of Management and Budget in a variety of positions, among them, Chief for the Project Management Branch and Director for the Debt Collection Project. Mr. Bridges served in the United States Air Force Reserves for 30 years. He received his bachelor's degree from the University of Kentucky and his master's degree from the University of Dayton.
The President intends to nominate Richard Capka, of Pennsylvania, to be Administrator of the Federal Highway Administration at the Department of Transportation. Mr. Capka currently serves as Deputy Administrator of the Federal Highway Administration. Prior to this, he served as Acting Administrator. Earlier in his career, he served as Chief Executive Officer and Executive Director of the Massachusetts Turnpike Authority. Mr. Capka served the Army Corps of Engineers for 29 years and is a retired U.S. Brigadier General. He received his bachelor's degree from the United States Military Academy and his master's degrees from the University of California at Berkeley and Chaminade University of Honolulu.
The President intends to nominate Robert F. Godec, of Virginia, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Tunisia. Mr. Godec currently serves as Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for Near Eastern Affairs at the Department of State. Prior to this, he served as Deputy Coordinator for Iraq and Deputy Coordinator for the Transition in Iraq. Earlier in his career, he served as Minister Counselor for Economic Affairs in Pretoria, South Africa. Mr. Godec received his bachelor's degree from the University of Virginia and his master's degree from Yale University.
The President intends to nominate Philip D. Moeller, of Washington, to be a Member of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, for the remainder of a five-year term expiring June 30, 2010. Mr. Moeller currently serves as Executive Director of the Washington Office for the Alliant Energy Corporation. Prior to this, he served as Director of Federal Relations at Calpine Corporation. Earlier in his career, he served as Senior Legislative Assistant for Electricity Policy for Senator Slade Gorton. Mr. Moeller received his bachelor's degree from Stanford University.
The President intends to nominate Michael E. Ranneberger, of Virginia, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Kenya. Mr. Ranneberger, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, currently serves as the Senior Representative on Sudan at the Department of State. He previously served as Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for African Affairs. Prior to this, he served as Special Advisor for the Sudan Programs Group at the Department of State. Earlier in his career, he served as the Ambassador to Mali. Mr. Ranneberger received his bachelor's degree from Towson University and his master's degree from the University of Virginia.
The President intends to nominate Warren W. Tichenor, of Texas, to be the Representative of the United States of America to the European Office of the United Nations and other International Organizations, with the Rank of Ambassador. Mr. Tichenor currently serves as President of W.W. Tichenor & Co., Inc. Prior to this, he served as Vice President of Tichenor Media System, Inc. Mr. Tichenor received his bachelor's degree from the University of Southern California.
The President intends to nominate Jon Wellinghoff, of Nevada, to be a Member of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, for the remainder of a five-year term expiring June 30, 2008. Mr. Wellinghoff currently serves as a Partner at Beckley Singleton. Prior to this, he served as Managing Principal and Regulatory Attorney for Efficient Energy Systems, Inc. Earlier in his career, he served as Staff Counsel for the Nevada Public Utilities Commission. Mr. Wellinghoff received his bachelor's degree from the University of Nevada and master's degree from Howard University. He went on to receive his JD from Antioch School of Law.
The President intends to appoint Scott G. Kriens, of California, to be a Member of the President's National Security Telecommunications Advisory Committee.
The President intends to appoint the following individuals:
James R. Aiona, Jr., of Hawaii, to be a Member of the Advisory Commission on Drug-Free Communities (State Organization), for the remainder of a three-year term expiring November 19, 2008.
Sandra Heverly, of Nevada, to be a Member of the Advisory Commission on Drug-Free Communities (National Organization), for the remainder of a three-year term expiring November 19, 2007.
Keith N. Humphreys, of West Virginia, to be a Member of the Advisory Commission on Drug-Free Communities (Public), for the remainder of a three-year term expiring November 19, 2007.
Patricia J. Kempthorne, of Idaho, to be a Member of the Advisory Commission on Drug-Free Communities (Public), for the remainder of a three-year term expiring November 19, 2007.
Charles W. Larson, Jr., of Iowa, to be a Member of the Advisory Commission on Drug-Free Communities (State Organization), for the remainder of a three-year term expiring November 19, 2007.
Darren L. Myles, of Louisiana, to be a Member of the Advisory Commission on Drug-Free Communities (National Organization), for the remainder of a three-year term expiring November 19, 2007.
Camille Q. Solberg, of Wisconsin, to be a Member of the Advisory Commission on Drug-Free Communities (Public), for the remainder of a three-year term expiring November 19, 2006 and an additional three-year term expiring November 19, 2009.
The President intends to designate William McCabe, of Maryland, to be Acting Chief Financial Officer of the Department of Education.
  