
    Pool Reports by Ryan Boetel, Albuquerque Journal 



Sent:
Reports:




March 17, 202114:03

SGOTUS [APP Note: Report #1]
Second Gentleman Douglas Emhoff arrived at the Santa Domingo Health Clinic at 1:45 p.m.
He was greeted by several members of tribal leadership outside the clinic, where the group exchanged simulated fist bumps from about 10 feet apart.
He said it was his first solo trip as the country's first second gentleman.
"I'll never forget it because it's the first time I'm doing it, and I'll never forget it because of the amazing place you have here," Emhoff said.
After, Emhoff walked inside the facility, where a vaccination clinic was underway. A group of patients in the lobby gave him a brief round of applause.
He toured a the clinic with New Mexico Gov. Michelle Luján Grisham and Kewa Pueblo Gov. Sedilio Tenorio.
Emhoff, the husband of Vice President Kamala Harris, is visiting New Mexico as part of the Biden administration's efforts to promote the $1.9 trillion American Rescue Plan.
After touring the vaccination clinic, Emhoff met with other New Mexico tribal leaders about the resources Native American communities will receive as part of the recovery package.



March 17, 202114:08

SGOTUS [APP Note: Report #2]
Emhoff walked into the clinic where a woman was preparing to get her COVID-19 vaccine.
"I bet you didn't expect your second shot to be in front of the entire world," Emhoff said to the patient.
The shot was plunged into her left arm.
"It's already done," Emhoff said. "Get the shot when it's your turn because it will save your life and the lives of others."



March 17, 202114:25

SGOTUS [APP Note: Report #3]
It is the Santa Domingo Health Center not health clinic. Sorry.



March 17, 202114:55

SGOTUS pool #4
Douglas Emhoff met with several tribal governors in a courtyard at the Santo Domingo Health Center after his tour of the facility.
Brian Vallo, the governor of Acoma Pueblo, said that tribal has prioritized cultural leaders for vaccine. He said many of their customs have been sacrificed during the pandemic.
"The loss of the elders really hits hard," Emhoff said. "We haven't been able to mourn."
Several of the tribal governors thanked the administration for appointing former Rep. Deb Haaland to be secretary of the interior.
"The Vice President is very much looking forward to swearing in Secretary Haaland," Emhoff said.
Now Emhoff is heading about 45 miles south to Albuquerque.



March 17, 202116:05

SGOTUS report #5
Douglas Emhoff has now arrived at the National Hispanic Cultural Center in Albuquerque, where he is hosting a listening session with working women.
They are gathered at a table in a courtyard outside the center, spaces about six feet apart and wearing masks.
One of the women, Suzanne Bell, is a local ICU nurse.
Emhoff asked her how she was feeling after the last year on the frontlines.
"I did the best I could but it wasn't good enough," Bell said.
She said she saw families torn apart and seeing people isolated because of the virus was difficult.
There is also a teacher, small business owner and a domestic violence advocate at the listening session.




  