
    Chicago, IL - Today, United States Senator Amy Klobuchar endorsed Barack Obama, citing his leadership on historic ethics reform and consumer product issues, his ability to bring change that matters in the lives of families across the country, and his support within her state.
Senator Klobuchar said, "The Democratic Party is blessed this year with two candidates with many excellent leadership qualities, and I believe each of them would be a strong president. I am endorsing Barack Obama today, because he has inspired an enthusiasm and idealism that we have not seen in this country in a long time. "
"I am endorsing Barack because he is a new kind of leader - speaking with a different voice, bringing a new perspective and inspiring a real excitement from the American people. He is able to dissolve the hard cynical edge that has dominated our politics under the Bush Administration. I believe Barack can unify the American people to address the many challenges facing our nation."
"The energy that Barack has unleashed is impossible to contain," said Klobuchar, noting caucus turnout in Minnesota was three times the previous record - more than anyone imagined or planned for - including many first-time caucus-goers, particularly young people and independents. Obama won Minnesota's caucuses 66%-32%.
Senator Klobuchar added, "My endorsement reflects both Barack's strong support in my state and my own independent judgment about his abilities. During our time together in the Senate, we have worked together for change, from ethics reform to protecting our children from toxic toys. Barack has been a proven agent for change and advocate for middle class Americans."
Senator Obama said, "Senator Klobuchar has spent years working to make a difference in the lives of families in Minnesota, and I'm grateful to have her support. Minnesota voters sent Senator Klobuchar to Washington to bring about real change, and that's what she's done - from helping pass landmark lobbying reform to making sure imports are safe for our children to taking on the tough issues that matter to middle class families and working Americans. And I look forward to fighting side by side with her in the months ahead to bring about real change, not just for the people of Minnesota, but for all Americans."
Senator Klobuchar is the 64th superdelegate to endorse Senator Obama since February 5th.
  