
    The Water Resources Planning Act (79 Stat. 244; 42 U.S.C. 1962 et seq.) provides for the establishment of river basin water and related land resources commissions. In conformity with the requirements of that act a majority of the Governors of the States of the Missouri River drainage basin, as defined in Section 2 of this order, and the Water Resources Council have requested, or concurred in, the establishment of such a Commission.
Now, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me by Section 201 of the Water Resources Planning Act (42 U.S.C. 1962b), and as President of the United States, it is ordered as follows:
SECTION 1. Missouri River Basin Commission. It is hereby declared that the Missouri River Basin Commission is established under the provisions of Title II of the Water Resources Planning Act (42 U.S.C. 1962b et seq.).
SEC. 2. Jurisdiction of the Commission. It is hereby determined that the jurisdiction of the Missouri River Basin Commission referred to in Section 1 of this order shall extend to the State of Nebraska and those portions of the States of Colorado, Iowa, Kansas, Minnesota, Missouri, Montana, North Dakota, South Dakota, and Wyoming that are located within the Missouri River drainage basin, defined as the drainage basin of the Missouri River above a point immediately below the mouth of the Gasconade River.
SEC. 3. Membership of the Commission. It is hereby determined that, in accordance with Section 202 of the Act (42 U.S.C. 1962b-1), the Commission shall consist of the following members:
(1) a Chairman to be appointed by the President,
(2) one member from each of the following Federal departments and agencies: Department of Agriculture; Department of the Army; Department of Commerce; Department of Health, Education, and Welfare; Department of Housing and Urban Development; Department of the Interior; Department of Transportation; Federal Power Commission; Atomic Energy Commission; and the Environmental Protection Agency; such member to be appointed by the head of the department or independent agency he represents.
(3) one member from each of the following States: Colorado, Iowa, Kansas, Minnesota, Missouri, Montana, Nebraska, North Dakota, South Dakota, and Wyoming.
(4) one member from each interstate agency created by an interstate compact to which the consent of the Congress has been given and whose jurisdiction extends to the waters of the area specified in Section 2.
SEC. 4. Functions, Powers, and Duties. The Commission and its officers, members, and employees shall perform and exercise, with respect to the area specified in Section 2 of this order, their respective functions, powers, and duties as set out in Title II of the Water Resources Planning Act.
SEC. 5. International Coordination. The Chairman of the Commission is hereby authorized and directed to refer to the Water Resources Council any matters under consideration by the Commission which relate to areas of interest or jurisdiction of the International Joint Commission, United States and Canada. The Council shall consult on these matters as appropriate with the Department of State and the International Joint Commission through its United States Section for the purpose of enhancing international coordination.
SEC. 6. Reporting to the President. The Chairman of the Commission shall report to the President through the Water Resources Council.
RICHARD NIXON
The White House,
March 22, 1972
  