
    Campaign Launches $12 Million Integrated Paid Media Campaign in Six States, Continues to Hire State Leadership
Today, Biden for President is announcing additional investments in key battleground states with a robust advertising effort, new hires, and a flood of endorsers. These investments build on the campaign's growing operation and continues Biden for President's investment in battleground states that vote on between March 10 and March 24.
"Coming out of Joe Biden's commanding performance on Super Tuesday, we are continuing to expand our operation on the ground in states that vote throughout March and beyond" said Molly Ritner, Director of States, Biden for President. "Joe Biden has built the broad and diverse coalition that we know it will take to beat Donald Trump, and these resources will allow us to continue to bring the Vice President's message to voters across the country who want to restore the soul of our nation."
Biden for President has raised over $22 million in the past few days, including from tens of thousands of new grassroots donors to our campaign. 97% of those donations have been under $200, which means we still have tremendous room for growth in the weeks and months ahead. These grassroots donations fuel our campaign, and will help us invest and compete aggressively in the upcoming March contests.
Today, the campaign will also launch a $12 million, integrated paid media campaign on television, raido, digital, and direct mail across eight states, including Michigan, Missouri, Mississippi, Arizona, Florida, Illinois, Ohio, and Georgia. "Service," an ad that features President Obama highlighting Biden's accomplishments, and "Always," which highlights Biden's Super Tuesday wins and calls on Democrats to unite and defeat Donald Trump, will in top markets in all six states.
In addition to previously announced staff in Illinois, Ohio, Michigan, Arizona, Missouri, and Florida, Biden for President has added the following state leadership in battleground states:

Manuel Abarca, Missouri
Trey Baker, Mississippi
Ron Holmes, Illinois
Reyahd Kazimi, Illinois
Jason McGrath, Illinois
Rashad Taylor, Georgia

The campaign also announced new endorsements today, including more than 60 endorsements in Missouri, over 30 endorsements in Idaho, former Senator Joe Donnelly in Indiana, former CFPB Director Richard Cordray, and more. These endorsements build on the over 200 endorsements that the campaign has announced since South Carolina. Local endorsers have been critical in expanding Biden for President's network and bringing new people into the campaign to support Joe Biden, volunteer, and vote.
Biden for President has previously announced more than 1,600 endorsements from national, state, and local leaders, including current and former U.S. senators and representatives, governors, state elected officials, community leaders, and national security professionals.
  