
    Pool Reports by Aurélia End, Agence France-Presse 



Sent:
Reports:




March 26, 202209:36 CET

Travel pool report #1 - Biden meeting Ukrainian ministers
Good morning. I will be your pooler today.
The WH shares this:
This morning, President Biden will drop by a meeting between Secretaries Blinken and Austin and Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba and Ukrainian Defense Minister Oleksii Reznikov.



March 26, 202210:52 CET

Travel pool report #2 - Pool gathered
Your pool has gathered as of 10:47 at the Marriott Hotel in Warsaw ahead of a busy day for Biden.
We are being swept and we have been tested for Covid.
It’s cloudy and we have 54 degrees.
Herewith the WH guidance in case useful.
Please note, as mentioned in my first report, that this morning the president will also drop by a meeting between Secretaries Blinken and Austin and Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba and Ukrainian Defense Minister Oleksii Reznikov.
As always feel free to reach out if you have questions
WEEKEND GUIDANCE FORSATURDAY, MARCH 26, 2022 – SUNDAY, MARCH 27, 2022
Saturday, March 26, 2022
In the afternoon, the President will participate in an arrival ceremony with President of Poland Andrzej Duda at the Presidential Palace in Warsaw, Poland. This will be covered by the out-of-town pool.
Then, the President will hold a bilateral meeting with President of Poland Andrzej Duda at the Presidential Palace in Warsaw. The President will discuss how the United States, alongside our Allies and partners, is responding to the humanitarian and human rights crisis that Russia’s unjustified and unprovoked war on Ukraine has created. This meeting will have a pool spray.
After, the President will meet with refugees at PGE Narodowy Stadium in Warsaw, Poland. He will engage with Mayor of Warsaw Rafał Trzaskowski to learn about assistance and services the city is providing to Ukrainians who have fled Putin’s war of choice, and with nongovernmental providers of humanitarian services, such as World Central Kitchen. Prime Minister of Poland Mateusz Morawiecki will attend. This visit will be covered by the out-of-town pool.
In the evening, the President will deliver remarks on the united efforts of the free world to support the people of Ukraine, hold Russia accountable for its brutal war, and defend a future that is rooted in democratic principles. These remarks at the Royal Castle in Warsaw, Poland will be open to pre-credentialed media.
Later, the President will return to Washington, DC. The departure from Warsaw Chopin Airport will be covered by the out-of-town pool. The arrival and departure at Royal Air Force Mildenhall, where Air Force One will refuel, will be covered by the out-of-town pool. The arrival at Joint Base Andrews will be covered by the out-of-town pool. The arrival on the South Lawn will be open press and pooled for TV.
Out-of-Town Pool
Wires: AP, Reuters, BloombergWire Photos: AP, Reuters, AFP, NYTTV Corr & Crew: CBSPrint: AFPRadio: VOA
In-Town Pool
Wires: AP, Reuters, BloombergWire Photos: AP, Reuters, AFP, NYTTV Corr & Crew: CNNPrint: AxiosRadio: AP
CET
11:00 AM Out-of-Town Pool Call Time
12:05 PM THE PRESIDENT participates in an arrival ceremony with President of Poland Andrzej DudaPresidential Palace, Warsaw, PolandOut-of-Town Pool
12:15 PM THE PRESIDENT holds a bilateral meeting with President of Poland Andrzej Duda; THE PRESIDENT discusses how the United States, alongside our Allies and partners, is responding to the humanitarian and human rights crisis that Russia’s unjustified and unprovoked war on Ukraine has createdPresidential Palace, Warsaw, PolandOut-of-Town Pool Spray
2:35 PM THE PRESIDENT meets with refugees; THE PRESIDENT engages with Mayor of Warsaw Rafał Trzaskowski to learn about assistance and services the city is providing to Ukrainians who have fled Putin’s war of choice, and with nongovernmental providers of humanitarian services, such as World Central Kitchen; Prime Minister of Poland Mateusz Morawiecki attendsPGE Narodowy Stadium, Warsaw, PolandOut-of-Town Pool
6:00 PM THE PRESIDENT delivers remarks on the united efforts of the free world to support the people of Ukraine, hold Russia accountable for its brutal war, and defend a future that is rooted in democratic principlesRoyal Castle, Warsaw, PolandOpen to Pre-Credentialed Media
7:50 PM THE PRESIDENT departs Warsaw, Poland en route Mildenhall, United KingdomWarsaw Chopin AirportOut-of-Town Pool
GMT
9:00 PM THE PRESIDENT arrives in Mildenhall, United KingdomRoyal Air Force MildenhallOut-of-Town Pool
10:30 PM THE PRESIDENT departs Mildenhall, United Kingdom en route Washington, DCRoyal Air Force MildenhallOut-of-Town Pool
EDT
2:00 AM In-Town Pool Call Time
2:10 AM THE PRESIDENT arrives at Joint Base AndrewsJoint Base AndrewsOut-of-Town Pool
2:30 AM THE PRESIDENT arrives at the White HouseSouth LawnOpen Press and Pooled for TV (Gather 2:20 AM — Palm Room Doors)
Sunday, March 27, 2022
The President has no public events scheduled.
In-Town Pool
Wires: AP, Reuters, BloombergWire Photos: AP, Reuters, AFP, NYTTV Corr & Crew: FOXPrint: BNARadio: AURN
EDT
10:00 AM In-Town Pool Call Time



March 26, 202211:30 CET

Travel pool report #3 - US Ukraine ministerial meeting started at 10:4
Per the WH the meeting between Secretaries Blinken and Austin and Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba and Ukrainian Defense Minister Oleksii Reznikov started at 10:41 AM CET



March 26, 202211:55 CET

Travel pool #4 - Spray with Ukrainian ministers
At 11:40 your pool entered a conference room of the Marriott Hotel.
The president was seated at a long white table between Secretaries Blinken and Austin, facing Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba and Ukrainian Defense Minister Oleksii Reznikov
All were wearing masks.
There were Ukrainian and American flags in the background, and other officials also in attendance.
When we entered Kuleba was telling the president how he learned how to sleep "under any conditions" during the war. Biden also spoke about sleep but it was difficult to hear.
Pool was rushed out at 11:42 and is now holding in a van outside the hotel. Will try to get better audio and tweet a picture. 



March 26, 202212:11 CET

Travel pool #4a - Quotes from the spray and participants
After listening to a better audio, it appears Kuleba was not specifically speaking about sleep in war conditions, but more generally about sleep and traveling.
Biden shared his own experience: "You're looking at a fella who's traveled over a million 200,000 miles"
"I learned how to sleep"
Thanks to copooler Geoff Earle (Daily Mail) for these quotes and to VOA Anita Powell who shared her audio.
Pool still holding as of 12:05 AM.
The WH also shared this list of participants:
UNITED STATES
Joseph R. Biden, Jr.President of the United States of America
Antony J. BlinkenU.S. Secretary of State
Lloyd Austin U.S. Secretary of Defense
Jake SullivanNational Security Advisor of the United States
Kristina KvienU.S. Chargé d'affaires ad interim to Ukraine
Amanda SloatNSC Senior Director for European Affairs
Tom SullivanDeputy Chief of Staff, U.S. Department of State
Kelly MegsamenChief of Staff, U.S. Department of Defense
LTG Randy GeorgeSenior Military Assistant
UKRAINE
FM Dmytro KulebaForeign Minister of Ukraine 
Oleksii ReznikovDefense Minister of Ukraine
Andrii DeshchytsiaUkrainian Ambassador to Poland 
Andrii YanevskyiChief of Staff, Ukraine Ministry of Foreign Affairs
Heorhii TykhyiMedia Advisor



March 26, 202212:32 CET

Travel pool #5 - Rolling
The motorcade started rolling at 12:27 AM.
Your pooler did not spot the president.
Also the WH shares this:
The President’s drop-by at the meeting began at 11:40 AM CET and ended at 12:21 PM CET



March 26, 202213:05 CET

Travel pool #6 - Arrival and Ceremony at the Presidential Palace in Warsaw
The motorcade arrived at the Presidential Palace in Warsaw around 12:33 AM.
The ride was short and uneventful. The street leading to the Palace was lined with Polish and Ukrainian flags. Many onlookers taking pictures.
The Beast rolled at 12:37 AM into the courtyard of the Palace for the ceremony of arrival.
Members of the Polish forces representing different branches of the military including Navy and in ceremonial uniforms were waiting.
President Duda went out at 12:37 to greet Biden.
The President then shook hands with Polish officials, we saw him briefly put his hand on Duda's shoulder.
The two presidents then greeted the US delegation, detailed list below.
A military band played the national anthem followed by the Polish one. Biden put his hand on his heart.
Duda and Biden then proceeded to review the troops.
At one point some of the servicemen shouted in Polish "Hail to the president" according to the translation of an employee of the US embassy
The band followed by the other servicemen then left.
Duda and Biden went in at 12:47 AM.
Pool now holding inside.
Attendees at the arrival ceremony per the WH
U.S. delegation participants:T.H. Antony Blinken, Secretary of StateT.H. Lloyd Austin, Secretary of DefenseT.H. Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security AffairsT.H. Mark Brzezinski, U.S. Ambassador to PolandT.H. Samantha Power, Administrator of U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID)T.H. Dr. Amanda Sloat, Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for EuropeMs. Robin Brooks, Director for the Balkans and Central Europe
Poland delegation participants:H.E. Zbigniew Rau, Minister of Foreign AffairsH.E. Mariusz Błaszczak, Minister of National DefenseH.E. Piotr Naimski, Deputy Minister of EconomyMr. Jakub Kumoch, Head of International Policy BureauMr. Pawel Soloch, Head of National Security BureauH.E. Marek Magierowski, Ambassador of Poland to US Mr. Piotr Gillert, Director of International Policy Bureau



March 26, 202213:39 CET

Travel pool #7 - Restricted bilateral ongoing
At 1:37 PM your pool is still holding at the Presidential Palace in Warsaw where Biden is having a restricted bilateral meeting with his Polish counterpart.
Per the WH, participating in this meeting:
The PresidentPresident Andrzej Duda, PolandMr. Jakub Kumoch, Head of International Policy BureauT.H. Antony Blinken, Secretary of State



March 26, 202214:15 CET

Travel pool #8 - Remarks
At 1:46 AM your pool entered the room with high ceilings and pillars where the expanded meeting was taking place.The officials were sitting around a long table under a quite monumental chandelier.Numerous US and Polish flags against the walls.
Duda spoke first in Polish and then Biden.Here some rough quotes
POTUS said that Artice 5 is a "sacred commitment" for the United StatesHe said both countries need to stay in "constant contact"Biden also said that Putin was"counting on a divided Nato" but that did not happenRepeating that the US take article 5 "as a sacred obligation" he added : "You can count on that" and "For your freedom and ours"Mentioning the Ukrainian refugees Biden said it reminded him of the situation at the Southern Border
Duda per translator said "Relations are flourishing" between the two countries and that Poland is a "serious" allyHe thanked the president for his visit and said the bond between Poland and the U.S. is "strengthened immensely by your visit"He mentioned the "great sense of threat" the Poles are feeling
Please check against transcript.As of 2:11 pm the pool is holding outside the Presidential Palace



March 26, 202214:38 CET

Travel pool #9 - Rolling to Stadium
At 2:36 PM the motorcade started rolling.
We are en route to the PGE Narodowy Stadium in Warsaw where Biden, per guidance, will meet with refugees, Polish officials and nongovernmental providers of humanitarian services, such as World Central Kitchen.



March 26, 202215:35 CET

Travel pool #10 - Stadium
We arrived at PGE Narodowy Stadium at 2:45 PM.
At 2:51 POTUS came out and walked down a flight of stairs to a courtyard where food trucks were parked next to tents from the World Central Kitchen NGO.
He chatted briefly with Chef José Andrés.
We saw Biden chat first with various people next to a donut food truck but the pool was kept at a distance and could not hear him.
According to the WH he interacted with Ukrainian refugees and with helpers.
The president was wearing a suit, no tie and a cap. He had a mask on as did the people around him.
He stopped for a moment under a tent where there was a grill.
Biden then stopped in a corner of the courtyard where families were gathered around tables, with plates of food and bottles of water. Your pooler saw fries and sausages, donuts and hamburgers.
We saw him talking to people that your pooler assumed are refugees. He had a translator with him.
At one moment the president picked up a little girl wearing a pink jacket and held her in his arms for a few moments.
Shortly after he stopped to talk to reporters.
He said Vladimir Putin was "a butcher" and that he had just met people from Mariupol.
Your pooler will get more quotes asap.
The pool left around 3:30 pm
Per the WHRafał Trzaskowski, Mayor of WarsawMateusz Morawiecki, Prime Minister of Poland, greeted the presidentWith him President at the World Central Kitchen Food Distribution SiteRafał Trzaskowski, Mayor of WarsawJosé Andrés, Chair Emeritus, Think Food GroupMateusz Morawiecki, Prime Minister of PolandMark Brzezinski, Ambassador of the U.S. to PolandSecretary Tony Blinken, U.S. Department of State Administrator Samantha Power, U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID), ModeratorElyssa Kaplan, Culinary Operations Manager, World Central Kitchen Relief TeamCathy Kossack, Chef Lead, World Central KitchenVolunteers with World Central KitchenUkrainian refugees



March 26, 202215:41 CET

Travel pool #10a - Audio from POTUS at the Stadium
Here is a link
https://otter.ai/u/lnSStdQqGTqtQSdM_sn0yo-3GCo
At 3:40 pm we are rolling.



March 26, 202215:56 CET

Travel pool #11 - Lunch lid
We have a lunch lid until 4:45 pm CET
Pool is holding at the Marriott



March 26, 202216:41 CET

Travel Pool #10b - Quotes from Biden gaggle at the stadium in Warsaw
Here are a few belated quotes in case useful, please check against transcript.
The president stopped as he was leaving after having spent some time with Ukrainian refugees.
Asked whether he thinks Russia has changed its strategy, he said "I am not sure they have"
He then said he was "always surprised" with "the depth and strength of the human spirit"
"See all those little children?" he asked
"It just makes you so damn proud. They are wonderful, wonderful, wonderful"
"Each one of those children said … say a prayer for my dad, for my grandfather, for my brother" who is "back there fighting"
"I remember what it is like when you have someone in a war zone"
"Every morning you get up and you wonder … You pray you don't get that phone call"
"There are an amazing group of people"
"I met two people from Mariupol. It's astounding"
About Putin: "He is a butcher. That's what it makes me feel."



March 26, 202217:44 CET

Travel Pool #12 - In attendance for Biden remarks
Pool is holding in a van, waiting to depart for the Royal Castle where Potus will deliver remarks.
While we are waiting the WH shares this:
In attendance for the President’s remarks at the Royal Castle in Warsaw:

President Andrzej Duda of Poland
750-1,000 attendees, including members of Parliament, local officials, students from local universities, and U.S. Embassy staff




March 26, 202217:59 CET

Travel pool #13 - Rolling to the Royal Castle 
[APP Note: No additional text was included in this report.]



March 26, 202218:16 CET

Travel Pool #14 - Arrival at Royal Castle and start of remarks 
[APP Note: No additional text was included in this report.]



March 26, 202218:44 CET

Travel pool #15 Remarks concluded
Remarks concluded at 6:43 pm



March 26, 202219:29 CET

Travel pool #16 - Rolling to airport
The motorcade left the Royal Castle, lit up in white, red, blue and yelllow, the colors of Poland and Ukraine, at 7:25 PM.
Next stop is the Warsaw Chopin Airport.
Also the WH shares more on the audience at the President’s remarks:
The audience was composed of senior Polish officials including the leaders of the government, members of parliament, NGO and business leaders, the diplomatic community, and university students (many the alumni of US exchange programs), and the US Embassy community.



March 26, 202219:30 CET

Travel pool #17- WH official on Putin remark at the end of the president's speech
Sharing this from a WH official:
"The President's point was that Putin cannot be allowed to exercise power over his neighbors or the region. He was not discussing Putin's power in Russia, or regime change."



March 26, 2022
[APP Note: Report #18 does not exist or was not received by the APP.]


March 26, 2022
[APP Note: Report #19 does not exist or was not received by the APP.]


March 26, 202220:54 GMT

Travel Pool #20 - Stop in Mildenhall UK
At 8:41 PM local time (please note the different time zone) Air Force One landed at Royal Air Force Mildenhall (UK) where it will refuel.
Sharing this bit of information related to the departure from Warsaw.
Greeting the President upon departure from Warsaw Chopin Airport:

Mr. Paweł Szrot, Secretary of State, Chief of the Cabinet of the President of the Republic of Poland
T.H. Mark Brzezinski, U.S. Ambassador to the Republic of Poland

Traveling with the President en route Joint Base Andrews on Air Force One:
Jen O'Malley Dillon, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of StaffJake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security AffairsMike Donilon, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the PresidentAnnie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office OperationsKate Bedingfield, Assistant to the President & Director of CommunicationsYohannes Abraham, Deputy Assistant to the President & Chief of Staff and Executive Secretary of the NSCRob Flaherty, Deputy Assistant to the President & Director of Digital StrategyRyan Montoya, Deputy Assistant to the President & Director of Scheduling & AdvanceKarine Jean-Pierre, Deputy Assistant to the President & Principal Deputy Press SecretaryVinay Reddy, Deputy Assistant to the President & Director of SpeechwritingMeghan Hays, Special Assistant to the President & Director of Message PlanningEmily Horne, Special Assistant to the President & Sr Director for Press and NSC SpokespersonAmanda Sloat, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for EuropeAshley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office OperationsNeera Tanden, Staff Secretary and Senior Advisor to the PresidentAmbassador Rufus Gifford, Chief of Protocol of the U.S.



March 26, 202221:36 GMT

Travel pool #21 - Servicemembers invited on board
Per the WH
The President invited the following servicemembers on Air Force One during a refuel stop at Royal Air Force Mildenhall.

Col Jason Herring, Vice Commander, 100th Air Refueling Wing
CMSgt Michael Venning, Command Chief, 100th Air Refueling Wing
Lt Col Brant Whipple, Staff Judge Advocate, 100th Air Refueling Wing
MSgt Kevin Khan, Aerospace Ground Equipment Flight Chief, 100th Maintenance Squadron
MSgt Kirk Sheppard, First Sergeant, 100th Operational Support Squadron
MSgt Christine Austin, Chief, Standardization & Evaluations, 488th Intelligence Squadron
TSgt Benjamin Barbeau, MC-130J Evaluator Loadmaster, 752d Special Operations Group
SrA Michael Welisevich, Electronic Warfare Journeyman, 95th Reconnaissance Squadron
A1C Khadedra Hylton, Fleet Management & Analysis Journeyman, 100th Logistics Readiness Squadron
A1C Thomas Schomburg, Air Terminal Operations Center Information Controller, 727th Air Mobility Squadron




March 26, 202221:44 GMT

Travel pool #22 - Taking off 
At 9:43 local time Air Force One is about to take off after refueling.
Next stop JBA




  