
    "'Go get 'em!' Biden's forceful State of the Union speech tackles Putin, spotlights infrastructure plans""Biden Vows to Check Russia and Inflation""Biden Pushes U.S. Made Cars in State of the Union" "Biden nod to slain cops Mora and Rivera in SOTU: 'Answer is not to defund the police'""State of the Union: 'We are United'" 
Today, local news outlets across the country are highlighting President Biden's first State of Union address and his vision to build a better America.
During the speech, President Biden spoke directly to the American people about how his economic strategy is producing historic results: the fastest job growth in American history, the fastest economic growth in nearly 40 years, and a faster recovery than every other advanced economy in the G7.
The President also laid out his plan to lower costs for American families, which includes making more things in America, strengthening our supply chains, moving goods faster and cheaper, and reducing the cost of everyday expenses working families face – including energy costs, child and elder care, and prescription drugs. He also called upon Congress to deliver progress for the American people with his unity agenda, and reiterated his pledge to Ukraine that the United States stands with them and will provide military, economic, and humanitarian assistance.
Here's a sampling of the coverage in the states: 
Alabama 
WIAT (CBS Birmingham, AL): Alabama lawmakers react to President Biden's State of the Union AddressMeanwhile Alabama Congresswoman Terri Sewell said the president's historic build back better plan is helping boost our economy in historic ways. "Thanks to the historic American Rescue Plan, our economy achieved the fastest job growth in American history, the fastest economic growth in nearly 40 years, and a faster recovery than every other advanced economy in the world," said Sewell.
Alaska 
Alaska Public Media: 5 takeaways from Biden's State of the Union addressPresident Biden's first formal State of the Union address focused on Ukraine, inflation, the coronavirus pandemic and a four-point "Unity Agenda." He urged world unity in standing up to Russia, listed ways he's trying to address rising prices (even if they will likely have limited to no effect in the short term) and offered an optimistic outlook about the end of the pandemic.
Arizona 

Arkansas:

Arkansas Democrat-Gazette: United against tyranny, Biden vows; Russia, inflation, virus face defeat, nation toldBiden outlined plans to address inflation by reinvesting in American manufacturing capacity, speeding supply chains and reducing the burden of child care and eldercare on workers. […] As part of his pitch to voters, he also put a new emphasis on how proposals such as extending the child tax credit and bringing down child care costs could bring relief to families as prices rise. He said his climate change proposals would cut costs for lower- and middle-income families and create new jobs. Biden called for lowering health care costs, pitching his plan to authorize Medicare to negotiate prescription drug prices, as well as an extension of more generous health insurance subsidies now temporarily available through the Affordable Care Act marketplaces, where 14.5 million people get coverage. He proposed initiatives on mental health that dovetail with growing bipartisan interest in Congress amid evidence that the pandemic has damaged the national psyche, and discussed new ways to improve access to health benefits for veterans sickened by exposure to the burning of waste during their service.
California


KFBM (CBS San Diego, CA): President Biden outlines plan to battle inflation in State of the Union addressPresident Joe Biden proclaimed that fighting inflation is his "top priority" in Tuesday night's State of the Union address. "We have a choice," he said. "One way to fight inflation is to drive down wages and make Americans poor. I think I have a better idea to fight inflation: lower your costs, not your wages." To that end, President Biden pushed for more American-made manufacturing and jobs, from cars and semi-conductors to infrastructure and innovation. "Instead of relying on foreign supply chains, let's make it in America!"
KPIX (CBS San Francisco, CA): Congress Shows Unity With Ukraine At Biden's 'State Of The Union Address'"When dictators do not pay a price for their aggression, they cause more chaos," said President Biden. In a rare show of unity, Republicans and Democrats stood and applauded together. Biden had harsh words for Russian President, Vladimir Putin, saying it was his goal for the US to inflict pain on Russia.
Colorado 
KMGH (ABC Denver, CO): 'We are going to be OK': President Biden delivers first State of the Union addressThe president also implored Congress to act and pass legislation that will address high priorities for the administration like dealing with rising costs for families, the country's deficit, lowering energy costs, and improving family and medical leave for working Americans. The president touted his American Rescue Plan saying, "Few pieces of legislation have done more in a critical moment in our history to lift us out of crisis."
Connecticut

WFSB (CBS Hartford, CT): CT's lawmakers react to State of the UnionPresident Biden also laid out what he called the unity agenda. He hopes to find bipartisan support on issues such as improving mental healthcare, cutting the death rate from cancer and taking steps to cut costs for middle class families…Connecticut Rep. Rosa DeLauro cheered the initiatives. She tweeted "POTUS was clear. America needs: Paid Family and medical Leave, paycheck fairness, monthly child tax credit."
Delaware
WDDE (NPR Dover, DE): Delaware's Congressional delegation praises Biden's State of the Union Address"I think we're stronger, much stronger, united than being divided," Carper told Delaware Public Media. "I thought tonight, one of the things I liked most about the president's message was the call for unity. And I was pleased to see how many Republicans rose and applauded for any number of times during the speech. Not all of them, but a lot."
Florida 

Hawaii 

KHON (FOX/CW Honolulu, HI): Hawaii delegation reacts to State of the Union"I feel that was needed right now." said U.S. Rep. Ed Case (D-HI). "An honest assessment of where we are, and a very realistic description of our challenges but also a path forward. I think that's what he offered."
Illinois

Chicago Sun-Times: 'Go get 'em!' Biden's forceful State of the Union speech tackles Putin, spotlights infrastructure plansPresident Joe Biden delivered a forceful State of the Union speech Tuesday night as Russians were bombing Kyiv and other Ukraine cities. Biden projected the optimism we need during these challenging times…With the world watching as Biden condemned Vladimir Putin for his "premeditated and totally unprovoked" war, Biden still had to — and did — tout the infrastructure and COVID relief programs he pushed through Congress, massive parts of his legacy, impacting all of Illinois – and often overlooked.
WBBM-TV (CBS Chicago, IL): Mayor Lightfoot, Gov. Pritzker Speak Highly Of President Biden's Economic Plans In His State Of The Union AddressMayor Lori Lightfoot and Illinois Gov. JB Pritzker spoke highly of President Joe Biden's remarks in the State of the Union address Tuesday night – and also took note of the fact that two women were standing behind the president during the address for the first time Tuesday.
Indiana 

Massachusetts

The Boston Globe: Amid fast-changing events, Biden looks ahead in State of the UnionAs a dangerous war rages abroad and with his domestic agenda stalled at home, President Biden on Tuesday used his first State of the Union address to project strength and resolve amid a backdrop of crises that could define his presidency.
The Boston Globe: Biden touts economic gains but says more work is needed to lower inflation[President Biden] outlined a series of steps designed to rein in fast-rising prices, including strengthening an overwhelmed supply chain, building more products in the US, promoting competition in highly concentrated industries, raising the federal minimum wage to $15, and reducing costs paid by families for things like prescription drugs, child care, and higher education.
Michigan

Detroit Free Press: Biden gives shoutout to Ford, GM investments in State of the Union speechFord Motor Co. and General Motors got a shoutout from the president in his first State of the Union address on Tuesday night…Biden used those developments both to underscore what he said has been a successful plan to bring manufacturing back to the U.S. and to press Congress to pass legislation that will help American companies battle against foreign competition. That legislation is expected to include billions to help prop up new semiconductor factories in the aftermath of a global shortage that has crippled companies, including automakers who rely on the chips.
The Detroit News: Biden pushes US-made cars in State of the UnionBuilding more cars in the United States will combat inflation and create a more resilient economy, President Joe Biden said Tuesday during his State of the Union address…He worked to temper consumer fears amid skyrocketing inflation and threats of higher gas prices on the rise as Russia's war on Ukraine is expected to push up fuel prices even further, telling Americans his anti-inflation plan is to "lower your costs, not your wages."
Missouri Missouri Independent: Biden in State of the Union urges 'unmistakable' support for democracy in UkraineBut Biden also spent a significant amount of time on issues challenging Americans every day, including inflation, gun violence and the country's path out of a two-year-long pandemic that's claimed the lives of nearly 1 million Americans. "We meet tonight in an America that has lived through two of the hardest years this nation has ever faced. The pandemic has been punishing," he said.
Nebraska 

Nevada

Las Vegas Review-Journal: Biden vows to check Russian aggression, battle inflationPresident Joe Biden vowed to make Russia's leader pay for the unprovoked invasion of Ukraine and outlined his domestic plan to remedy spiraling inflation and rising costs on Americans during his State of the Union speech Tuesday. "He has no idea what's coming," Biden said to applause during the speech. Ukrainian ambassador Oksana Markarova was seated in the House gallery as a guest of the first lady. Biden said Putin thought he could roll into Ukraine and the world would roll over, "instead he met a wall of strength he never imagined. He met the Ukrainian people."
New York

NY Post: Biden nod to slain cops Mora and Rivera in SOTU: 'Answer is not to defund the police'[Tamar Lapin, 3/2/22]President Biden drew cheers from both sides of the aisle by condemning the "Defund the police" movement during his first State of the Union address on Tuesday night…"We should all agree: The answer is not to Defund the police, the answer is to fund the police," Biden said to a standing ovation.
Ohio

The Columbus Dispatch: Biden touts Intel project in State of the Union as Ohioans contend with inflationPresident Joe Biden touted Intel's $20 billion plan to make semiconductors in Ohio during his first State of the Union address Tuesday as he sought to paint a hopeful picture of the economy despite concerns over inflation…Intel announced earlier this year that it will build two factories in Licking County, making it the largest economic development in Ohio history. Biden has lauded the project as a way to enhance America's role in the global market and protect it from supply disruptions that accelerated during the pandemic.
WEWS (ABC Cleveland, OH): Biden touts new Intel mega-plant in State of the Union addressBiden spoke about inflation that's affecting the country and Ohioans at home, from the grocery store shelves to the gas pump. He argued that the way to fight inflation is to re-imagine and redefine the Rust Belt by having more infrastructure and innovation in the states, which he said would drive down costs by boosting manufacturing.
Oregon 

Pennsylvania 

Pittsburgh Post-Gazette: President Biden gives nod to Western Pa. steelworker to promote his jobs planWhile the Russia-Ukraine crisis took center stage at the annual address Tuesday evening, Mr. Biden also trumpeted the U.S. reaching a point where COVID-19 "no longer controls our lives" and gave a Pittsburgh steelworker a nod to highlight his plan to build on the post-COVID U.S. economic recovery through jobs…Mr. Biden said the 369,000 manufacturing jobs added last year are "powered by people I've met like JoJo Burgess, from generations of union steelworkers in Pittsburgh, who's here with us tonight."
Pittsburgh Tribune-Review: Pittsburgh-area steelworker Joseph Burgess gets front-row seat at State of the Union addressIn advocating for passage of the Bipartisan Innovation Act to revitalize American industry, Biden said, "All told, we created 369,000 new manufacturing jobs in America just last year. Powered by people I've met like JoJo Burgess, from generations of union steelworkers from Pittsburgh, who's here with us tonight.""The whole speech hit me throughout," Burgess said. "It hit me being a union member when he talked about manufacturing. It also hit me being a Gulf War veteran, when he talked about what the VA is doing for veterans and veterans getting the proper care that they need, things that this country should provide for them upon their service to this country.
Texas 

Dallas News: Joe Biden's first report card: mixed but getting strongerMore jobs were created in President Joe Biden's first year in office, 6.5 million, than in any year in American history. […] "We are stronger today than we were a year ago," Biden said. "And we will be stronger a year from now than we are today." Thanks to a vaccine rollout, the country has shaken off its pandemic-induced hibernation. Thanks to the huge COVID-19 relief package, unemployment dropped more sharply than in any year in history. The coffers of state governments are full.
Virginia
WTVR (CBS Richmond, VA): Virginia boy was 'perfect person' to attend State of the Union, dad saysDuring the speech, President Biden lent his voice to an effort on the federal level to cap the out-of-pocket cost of insulin for those with health coverage to $35 per month. The Davis family had been working with Congresswoman Abigail Spanberger (D) on the issue when an insulin cost cap was part of the now stalled Building Back Better Act…The Davis family helped advocate for a state law in Virginia, passed in 2020, that has capped the out-of-pocket for a max for a 30-day supply of insulin to $50. Joshua said he has been advocating for lowering drug costs more than half his life, and the 13-year-old said this moment was a high-water mark for his family's efforts.
WRIC (ABC Richmond, VA): Virginia lawmakers react to President Biden's State of the UnionRichmond Mayor, Levar Stoney congratulated the president in a tweet immediately following Biden's speech, saying "I applaud [the president's] vision for creating a better America for all, which will lead to lower costs for working families, better-paying jobs, stronger supply chains, safer and healthier communities, a cleaner environment, and so much more."
Washington

KOMO (ABC Seattle, WA): Locals react to President Biden's first State of Union speech"I think it's clear that Ukraine is one of his top priorities because his whole speech started with Russian aggression and threats that come from Russia to the whole world, not just to Ukraine, but to the whole world," said Valeriy Goloborodko, Honorary Ukrainian Consul in Seattle. He was asked, "How proud of a moment was it for you to see the honored guest at the state of the union was the Ukrainian ambassador?" "Yes and she was sitting by the First Lady," Goloborodko said. "I think that means a lot and sends message as well that this war is something that President Biden is thinking about all the time. And that's pain of his heart as well and he wants to show his support in every possible way to people of Ukraine."
West Virginia

Wisconsin

Wisconsin Examiner: In the State of the Union, Biden tries to hold us togetherIn a State of the Union address focused on unity and optimism, Biden reassured the nation that "you, the American people, are strong." We are "stronger than a year ago," he told us. "You'll be OK," he said at another point, acknowledging the devastation of the pandemic, the uncertainty of the economy, of inflation, of historic levels of disaffection and political division and, of course, the destabilizing and frightening reality of the Russian invasion of Ukraine.
  