
    The Rudy Giuliani Presidential campaign today announced the members of Mayor Rudy Giuliani's Illinois leadership team. The team will be chaired by Tom Cross, the General Assembly's House Republican Leader, and co-chaired by business leader Ron Gidwitz.
"Mayor Giuliani represents exactly what we need in our next president — a leader who will not only protect our national security but will ensure that the government is run with the same kind of conservative fiscal discipline he used as Mayor of New York City. I'm honored to chair his efforts in Illinois and get to work," said House Republican Leader Tom Cross.
"Given his record, it's clear that Rudy Giuliani is most qualified to lead this nation and I look forward to building his support throughout Illinois," Ron Gidwitz said.
"Our team is working hard to communicate Rudy Giuliani's positive vision for the country, and we're pleased to have such strong leaders heading the Mayor's efforts in Illinois," said National Political Director Mark Campbell.
First elected in 1992, Cross is currently serving in his eighth term. A practicing attorney, Representative Cross has been recognized for his legislative efforts by groups such as the Illinois Healthcare Association, the Illinois Chapter of the National Federation of Independent Business and the Illinois Chamber of Commerce. Gidwitz, a co-founder of the Chicago investment first GCG partners, served as Chairman of the Illinois State Board of Education, the Economic Development Commission of the City of Chicago is the chairman of the Illinois Jobs Coalition, a group working to build the job base in Illinois. Gidwitz was a candidate for Governor of the State of Illinois in 2006.
ILLINOIS STATE LEADERS SUPPORTING RUDY GIULIANI
State Senator Christine Radogno: Christine Radogno has served in the Illinois Senate since 1997.
Deputy Republican House Leader Bill Black: Deputy Republican Leader Black has served as State Representative of the 104th District since 1986.
Assistant Republican House Leader Mark Beaubien: Elected to the legislature in 1996, Representative Beaubien serves as the Republican point person in the state budget negotiations.
Assistant Republican House Leader Patricia Linder: Patricia Linder has served in the General Assembly as Representative of the 50th District since 1993.
Assistant Republican House Leader Dave Winters: Representative Dave Winters has been a member of the General Assembly since 1995.
State Representative Suzie Bassi: Representative Bassi has served in the General Assembly as Representative of the 54th District since 1999.
State Representative Franco Coladipietro: Representative Coladipietro is currently serving his first term as Representative of the 45th District.
State Representative Roger Eddy: Roger Eddy serves in the General Assembly as the State Representative of the 109th District since 2003.
State Representative Bill Mitchell: Bill Mitchell has served in the General Assembly since 1999. Prior to joining the General Assembly, Rep. Mitchell served as the Republican County Chairman of Macon County and former Decatur City Council Member.
State Representative Ruth Munson: Ruth Munson is serving her third term in the General Assembly as the State Representative of the 43rd District.
State Representative Dennis Reboletti: Dennis Reboletti is serving his first-term in the Illinois General Assembly representing the 46th District.
State Representative Angelo "Skip" Saviano: Skip Saviano has served in the General Assembly since 1993 as the State Representative of the 77th District.
State Representative Aaron Schock: Aaron Schock of Peoria is currently the State Representative for the 92nd District in Illinois At age 23, Aaron Schock is both the youngest school board president in history and the youngest member of the Illinois Legislature.
State Representative Ed Sullivan: Ed Sullivan is currently serving his second term as State Representative of the 51st District.
State Representative Mike Tryon: Mike Tryon is serving his second term in the General Assembly as Representative of the 64th District.
  