
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate eight individuals and his intention to appoint five individuals to serve in his administration.
The President intends to nominate Albert Casey to be a Governor of the Board of Governors of the United States Postal Service for the remainder of a nine-year term expiring December 8, 2009. Casey is presently a Distinguished Executive in Residence at the Edwin L. Cox School of Business at Southern Methodist University. Prior to joining the Cox School of Business, Casey was the President and Chief Executive Officer of the Resolution Trust Corporation. From 1986 to 1988, he was the Ann Cox Distinguished Professor of Business Policy at Cox School of Business after serving as Postmaster General of the United States in 1986. Casey was the chief executive of AMR Corp., from 1974 to 1985, and remained on the Board of Directors until 1991. He joined AMR Corp., after eight years as the President of the Times Mirror Company in Los Angeles. Casey received a bachelor's degree from Harvard University and a Master's degree from Harvard Business School.
The President intends to nominate Stephen Geoffrey Rademaker to be Assistant Secretary of State for Arms Control. He is currently the Deputy Staff Director and Chief Counsel for the U.S. House of Representatives, Committee on International Relations, where he has served since 1995, and from 1993 to 1995, he was Chief Counsel to the House Committee on Foreign Affairs. Before joining the House of Representatives, Rademaker was General Counsel to the Peace Corps and Associate Counsel to the President and Deputy Legal Advisor to the National Security Counsel from 1989 to 1992. From 1987 to 1989, he was Special Assistant to the Assistant Secretary of State for Inter-American Affairs, and from 1986 to 1987, he was Counsel to the Vice- Chairman of the International Trade Commission. Rademaker received a B.S., M.A. and J.D. from the University of Virginia.
The President intends to nominate Thomas A. Marino to be United States Attorney for the Middle District of Pennsylvania. Marino has been the Lycoming County, Pennsylvania, District Attorney since 1996. From 1988 to 1996, he was an Associate with the Williamsport, Pennsylvania, law firm of McNemey, Page, Vanderlin & Hall. Marino received an A.A. from Williamsport Area Community College, a B.A. from Lycoming College, and a J.D. from Dickinson School of Law.
The President intends to nominate Patrick E. McDonald to be United States Marshal for the District of Idaho. McDonald has served with the Idaho State Police since 1969, where he has been promoted through the ranks to Region Patrol Commander Captain. Before joining the state police, he was a police officer with the Burley, Idaho, Police Department. He has served in the U.S. Air Force Reserve, the U.S. Army National Guard, and the U.S. Army Reserve, and has received B.A. and M.A. degrees from Idaho State University.
The President intends to nominate Don Slazinik to be United States Marshal for the Southern District of Illinois. Slazinik has been the Director of Public Safety for the O?Fallon Police Department in O?Fallon, Illinois, since 1986, and also is a part time instructor at Columbia College in St. Louis, Missouri. He was Chief of Police in Poplar Bluff, Missouri from 1985 to 1986, and was Chief of Police in Storm Lake, Iowa, from 1983 to 1985. Slazinik began his law enforcement career in 1975 as a Police Officer with the Police Department of the City of Des Peres, Missouri. Slazinik earned a B.A. from Southeast Missouri State University and an M.A. from Webster College.
The President intends to nominate Kim Richard Widup to be United States Marshal for the Northern District of Illinois. Widup has been the Chief of Investigations in the Office of Independent Counsel since 1999. From 1979 to 2000, he served with the Department of Agriculture, where he was promoted through the ranks to Supervisory Criminal Investigator. A resident of Naperville, Illinois, Widup is a graduate of Radford High School in Honolulu, Hawaii.
The President intends to nominate John Edward Quinn to be United States Marshal for the Northern District of Iowa. Quinn recently retired after 35 years of service with the Iowa State Patrol where he was promoted through the ranks to Sergeant. He served for four years in the U.S. Air Force and graduated from Maquoketa Valley High School in Delhi, Iowa.
The President intends to nominate John R. Edwards to be United States Marshal for the District of Vermont. Edwards recently retired after owning his own business, JRE Investigations, since 1993. He also served as a member of the Vermont House of Representatives from 1995 to 2000. Edwards began his law enforcement career in 1964, when he joined the Vermont State Police. A former member of the U.S. Navy and U.S. Navy Reserves, he is a graduate of Castleton State College.
The President intends to appoint Jack David to be Chairman of the United States Section of the United States and Canada Permanent Joint Board on Defense. David is currently self-employed, and practiced law from 1967 to 1996 with several firms such as Siller, Wilk and Mencher; Fenwick, Stone, Davis and West, and in private practice. He was a delegate to the U. N. Human Rights Commission in 1987, 1988, 1989 and 1990, and he has served on two delegations to NATO, in 1992 and 2000. David earned a bachelor's degree from Rutgers University and law degree from Columbia University.
The President intends to appoint the following four individuals to serve as Members of the Board of Visitors to the United States Naval Academy:
Tirso Del Junco of California for the remainder of a three-year term expiring December 30, 2002 Frederick Meyer of Texas for the remainder of a three-year term expiring December 30, 2003 Jane Ellen Newman of New Hampshire for the remainder of a three-year term expiring December 30, 2003 Michael Stephen Steele of Maryland for the remainder of a three-year term expiring December 30, 2003
  