
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

The strength and effectiveness of the United States Government depends, in great part, on the knowledge, dedication, and skill of Federal employees. Whether they serve here at home or in posts abroad, employees of the Federal Government contribute substantially to the social, political, and economic stability of our Nation and to the protection of U.S. interests around the world.
Each and every American benefits daily, in numerous ways, from the work of Federal employees. It is these dedicated public servants who issue Social Security checks, ensure the safety of food and medicine, investigate possible cures for disease, promote the safety of our highways and air travel, and lead the fight against illict drug trafficking. Federal employees also provide vital support to the members of our Armed Forces and, in so doing, help to guarantee our national security and military preparedness. The recent success of Operation Desert Storm underscores our debt to the able and loyal work of Federal employees.
This week we express both our pride in public service and our appreciation for all those men and women who serve their fellow Americans as Federal employees.
The Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 51, has designated the week beginning March 4, 1991, as "Federal Employees Recognition Week" and authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this week.
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the week beginning March 4, 1991, as Federal Employees Recognition Week. I call upon all Americans to observe this week with appropriate ceremonies and activities, in grateful recognition of the dedicated service provided to the Nation by employees of the Federal Government.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this first day of March, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-one, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fifteenth.

GEORGE BUSH
  