
    On Monday, March 20, 2006, the President signed into law;
H.R. 1287, which designates a facility of the United States Postal Service located in Flora, Illinois, as the Robert T. Ferguson Post Office Building.
H.R. 2113, which designates a facility of the United States Postal Service located in Joliet, Illinois, as the John F. Whiteside Joliet Post Office Building.
H.R. 2346, which designates a facility of the United States Postal Service located in Hammond, Louisiana, as the John J. Hainkel, Jr. Post Office Building.
H.R. 2413, which designates a facility of the United States Postal Service located in Humble, Texas, as the Lillian McKay Post Office Building.
H.R. 2630, which redesignates a facility of the United States Postal Service located in Springfield, Illinois, as the J.M. Dietrich Northeast Annex.
H.R. 2894, which designates a facility of the United States Postal Service located in Hodgenville, Kentucky, as the Abraham Lincoln Birthplace Post Office Building.
H.R. 3256, which designates a facility of the United States Postal Service located in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, as the Congressman James Grove Fulton Memorial Post Office Building.
H.R. 3368, which designates a facility of the United States Postal Service located in Gagetown, Michigan, as the Gagetown Veterans Memorial Post Office.
H.R. 3439, which designates a facility of the United States Postal Service located in Smithfield, North Carolina, as the Ava Gardner Post Office.
H.R. 3548, which designates a facility of the United States Postal Service located in Pearl River, New York, as the Heinz Ahlmeyer, Jr., Post Office Building.
H.R. 3703, which designates a facility of the United States Postal Service located in Spring Hill, Florida, as the Staff Sergeant Michael Schafer Post Office Building.
H.R. 3770, which designates a facility of the United States Postal Service located in Knox, Indiana, as the Grant W. Green Post Office Building.
H.R. 3825, which designates a facility of the United States Postal Service located in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, as the Clayton J. Smith Memorial Post Office Building.
H.R. 3830, which designates a facility of the United States Postal Service located in Punta Gorda, Florida, as the U.S. Cleveland Post Office Building.
H.R. 3989, which designates a facility of the United States Postal Service located in Dennison, Minnesota, as the Albert H. Quie Post Office.
H.R. 4053, which designates a facility of the United States Postal Service located in Covina, California, as the Lillian Kinkella Keil Post Office.
H.R. 4107, which designates a facility of the United States Postal Service located in Baltimore, Maryland, as the Maryland State Delegate Lena K. Lee Post Office Building.
H.R. 4152, which designates a facility of the United States Postal Service located in Clinton, Massachusetts, as the Raymond J. Salmon Post Office.
H.R. 4295, which designates a facility of the United States Postal Service located in Riverton, Utah, as the Mont and Mark Stephensen Veterans Memorial Post Office Building.
S. 2089, which designates a facility of the United States Postal Service located in Honolulu, Oahu, Hawaii, as the Hiram L. Fong Post Office Building.
S. 2320, which reallocates mandatory funds appropriated for the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) and makes the funds available in FY 2006 instead of FY 2007.
  