
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
March 8
In the morning, the President traveled to Managua, Nicaragua, and later, he traveled to Posoltega, Nicaragua.
In the afternoon, the President toured the area damaged by mudslides and participated in a plaque dedication ceremony in memory of the victims.
Later, the President traveled to San Salvador, El Salvador. March 9
In the morning, the President traveled to Comayagua, Honduras.
In the afternoon, the President traveled to Tegucigalpa, Honduras, where he was briefed by U.S. military personnel on the construction of the Juan Molina Bridge. Later, he returned to San Salvador.
March 10
In the morning, the President met with President Armando Calderon Sol of El Salvador in the Presidential Office at Casa Presidencial.
In the afternoon, the President traveled to Guatemala City, Guatemala, and in the evening, he traveled to Antigua, Guatemala.
The President announced his intention to appoint Ann Lewis as Counselor to the President and Loretta Ucelli as Assistant to the President and Communications Director.
The President declared a major disaster in New York and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by near record snow on March 3-6.
The White House announced that the President sent the Congress a request for $15 million in FY 1999 supplemental funding for the Department of the Interior.
March 11
In the morning, the President met with Central American leaders in Casa Santo Domingo.
In the afternoon, the President returned to Guatemala City, and in the evening, he returned to Washington, DC.
The President announced his intention to appoint Amanda Aguirre, Jeffrey Brandon, Carlos Rene Gonzales, Rosemarie Marshall Johnson, Laurance N. Nickey, and Paul Villas as members of the U.S. section of the United States-Mexico Border Health Commission.
March 12
In the morning, the President traveled to Hope, AR, and in the afternoon, he traveled to Texarkana, TX.
In the evening, the President attended a dinner for Representative Max Sandlin at the A-Bar Ranch.
The President announced the appointment of Ellen McCulloch-Lovell, William E. Kennard, and G. Mario Moreno to serve as members of the Board of Trustees of the American Folklife Center.
  