
    Today, Ohio House Minority Leader Emilia Strong Sykes and 20 Northeastern Ohio leaders announced their endorsements for Joe Biden for President of the United States.
"The past four years of Donald Trump has shown us how crucial it is to have a real partner in the White House. One who believes in making quality health care — including reproductive health care — available to all Ohioans. That every child deserves a chance at the American Dream, starting with a high-quality, robust education. And that nobody should ever have to live in fear of gun violence.
"I'm endorsing Joe Biden because he's going to be that partner — one who's proven that on these issues and so many more, he can actually build the necessary coalitions and move the needle toward making meaningful change at the White House. We have a real opportunity to win and break the GOP supermajority in the Ohio House with Vice President Biden at the top of our ticket, and I urge my fellow Ohioans to vote for Joe Biden on March 17th and help our state have a real, decent, and experienced partner in the White House." — Ohio House Minority Leader Emilia Strong Sykes
The full list of Northeastern Ohio leaders endorsing Joe Biden today includes:

State Representative Emilia Strong Sykes, House Minority Leader
State Representative Kent Smith
State Representative Casey Weinstein
State Representative Jack Cera
State Representative Terrance Upchurch
Steve Dettelbach, Former U.S. Attorney for the Northern District of Ohio
Gina Abercrombie-Winstanley, Former Ambassador to Malta
Matt Zone, Cleveland City Councilman & Former President of League of Cities
Kevin Kelley, President of Cleveland City Council
Phyllis Cleveland, Cleveland City Councilwoman
Kevin Conwell, Cleveland City Councilman
Brian Kazy, Cleveland City Councilman
Kevin Bishop, Cleveland City Councilman
Joseph Jones, Cleveland City Councilman
Kerry McCormack, Cleveland City Councilman
Brian Mooney, Cleveland City Councilman
Kenneth Johnson, Cleveland City Councilman
Russ Balthis, Cuyahoga Falls City Councilman
Kim Thomas, Richmond Heights City Councilwoman
Amanda Karpus, Member, Parma City School District Board of Education
Tim Dobeck, Parma Law Director

These endorsements build on the list of nearly 70 current and former elected officials and community leaders from across Ohio, including Congressman Tim Ryan, Congresswoman Marcia Fudge, Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur, former Ohio Governor Ted Strickland, former CFPB Director Richard Cordray, former Congressman Edward Feighan, Columbus City Attorney Zach Klein, former Columbus City Councilmember Mary Jo Hudson, State Senator Herceal Craig, Columbus Mayor Andrew Ginther, Cincinnati Mayor John Cranley, and Youngstown Mayor Jamael "Tito" Brown.
Nationally, Biden for President has previously announced more than 2,100 endorsements from national, state, and local leaders, including current and former U.S. senators and representatives, governors, state elected officials, community leaders, and national security professionals.
  