
    President George W. Bush today announced his intent to nominate five individuals to serve in his administration.
The President intends to nominate Pete Aldridge to be Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology and Logistics. He is currently the Chief Executive Officer of The Aerospace Corporation n Arlington, Virginia. He held the post of Secretary of the Air Force from 1986 -- 1988, and he has held a variety of positions within the Department of Defense. He has received several awards including the Secretary of Defense Meritorious Civilian Service Award, the Department of Defense Distinguished Civilian Service Award and the Department of Defense Distinguished Public Service Award. He is a graduate of Texas A&M and received his Master's degree from Georgia Tech.
The President intends to nominate Robert Gordon Card to be Under Secretary of Energy. He is presently the President and CEO of Kaiser-Hill Company in Colorado, and was previously Executive Vice President of CH2M Hill, Inc. A native of Yakima, Washington, he is graduate of the University of Washington and received his Master's degree in Environmental and Civil Engineering from Stanford University.
The President intends to nominate Kristine Ann Iverson to be Assistant Secretary of Labor for Congressional and Intergovernmental Affairs. She is presently the Legislative Director for Senator Orrin Hatch and served as Minority Staff Director for the Committee on Labor and Human Resources from 1988 to 1992. A native of Elgin, Illinois, she is a graduate of DePauw University and received her Master's degree in economics from George Mason University.
The President intends to nominate Bobby P. Jindal to be Assistant Secretary of Health and Human Services for Planning and Evaluation. He is currently the University of Louisiana System President and has also served as a Professor of Management at L.S.U. He was Executive Director of the National Bipartisan Commission on the Future of Medicare from 1998 to 1999 and was the Secretary of the Louisiana Department of Health and Hospitals from 1996 to 1998. He is a graduate of Brown University and New College at Oxford University.
The President intends to nominate Donna McLean to be Assistant Secretary of Transportation for Budget and Programs and Chief Financial Officer of the Department of Transportation. She is currently the Chief Financial Officer at the Federal Aviation Administration. She was a professional staff member for the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, Subcommittee on Aviation from 1993 to 1999 and served in a variety of positions within the Department of Transportation and the Office of Management and Budget during the Reagan and Bush Administrations. She received both her undergraduate and Master's degree in Public Affairs from the University of Indiana.
  