
    The President. Senator, this would be your President calling.
State Senator Jack Hart. President Bush, President Bush is on the line. How about a nice round of applause for President Bush? Happy Saint Patrick's Day. What an honor.
The President. Yes, same to you, Jack. Thanks for letting me call in. I appreciate you taking my call.
Senator Hart. Any time, Mr. President, we'll take your call any time, for crying out loud.
The President. Well, I'm proud of that. Listen, I want to thank Father Casey. I presume he's got quite a few souls to save there in that crowd. [Laughter]
Senator Hart. There's quite a few Democratic souls to save in this hall, Mr. President.
The President. I know you've got one— you invited at least one Republican, and that's my friend the Governor.
Senator Hart. Yes, yes, he's here. Mitt Romney is here. We were going to ask you, Mr. President, do you need a runningmate? [Laughter]
The President. Wait a minute.
Senator Hart. We like Dick Cheney and all, but we'd like for you to take the Governor to Washington, DC. [Laughter]
The President. Look, you're lucky to have the guy. Here's the way I like to put it about Massachusetts: I know there's a lot of talk about a Massachusetts politician who has his eye on the Presidency. But tell Mitt it's not open until 2008. [Laughter]
Senator Hart. Oh, you're talking about— you had me stumped for a second there.
You're talking about Senator Kerry, of course.
The President. Oh, no, no.
Senator Hart. Oh, my goodness.
The President. You mean the—well, never mind. [Laughter]
I want to thank the Lieutenant Governor. I want to thank the speaker and the senate president. I miss my days as being the Governor. I loved dealing with our Lieutenant Governor and speaker and members of the statehouse and the State senate. And I wish you all the very best. I know you're struggling with some big issues. But these are good, decent folks working for the people of Massachusetts to get some things done, and I appreciate, Jack, the spirit of this lunch.
Senator Hart. Well, thank you very much. We are certainly honored that you called, and we respect the job that you're doing. We pray for you every day, Mr. President. You're a good man, and we just wanted to wish you a very, very happy Saint Patrick's Day.
The President. Same to you, sir, and I wish everybody a happy Saint Patrick's Day as well. God bless, everybody. God bless our great Nation.
  