
    Pool Reports by Debra Saunders, Las Vegas Review-Journal



Sent:
Reports:




March 10, 202008:47 

In Town Pool Report #1
Good morning, I am your print pooler today.
I just got this from Judd Deere,
Yesterday, President Donald J. Trump spoke with Crown Prince Mohammad Bin Salman of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. The President and the Crown Prince discussed global energy markets and other critical regional and bilateral issues.



March 10, 202011:40 

In Town Pool Report #2
Anne Gearan's VP pool report has list of insurers attending the. Coronavirus task force meeting.
I am here as POTUS is expected. We are about to go into the Roosevelt Room.



March 10, 202011:43 

In Town Pool Report #2a
The list
Gail Bourdreaux, President & CEO of Anthem, Inc.Dave Wichmann, CEO UnitedHealth GroupBruce Broussard, President and CEO HumanaMichael F. Neidorff, Chairman, President, and CEO Centene CorporationMatt Eyles, President and CEO Americas Health Insurance Plans (AHIP)Tim Wentworth, CEO of Express Scripts and Cigna ServicesJustine Handelman, Senior Vice President, Office of Policy and Representation, Blue Cross Blue Shield AssociationKaren Lynch, President of Aetna Business Unit, Executive Vice President, CVS HealthGregory Adams, Chairman and CEO Kaiser Foundation Health Plan, Inc.Secretary Alex Azar, Department of Health and Human ServicesAdministrator Seema Verma, Centers for Medicare and Medicaid ServicesMarc Short, Assistant to the President and Chief of Staff to the Vice PresidentJoe Grogan, Assistant to the President and Director of Domestic Policy Council



March 10, 202011:53 

In Town Pool Report #3
Trump greeted the pool and acknowledged those at the table, then handed off
Pence made it clear this will be a "whole of government approach"
-Private insurers Agreed to waive all copays, will cover telemedicine
Trump"
"We are working very very closely with the cruise industry"
Airlines too
"We'll be helping them through this patch"
Gail BoudreauxAnthem"Cost is not an issue to having the testing done"
Bruce Broussard
"We are very oriented to g TV e aging population"
Gov Ricketts
"I appreciate your leadership..."



March 10, 202011:55 

In Town Pool Report #4
According to fellow poolers, Trump said yes when asked if he was going to the Hill this afternoon.
Fuller quotes to follow



March 10, 202012:06 

In Town Pool Report #5
Pool entered the Roosevelt Room at 11:43
Trump saluted the companies there - "probably the biggest companies in the world.""And I think that tremendous progress is being made."Handed off to VP
Pence"President Trump made clear from the early days of the corona virus (there'd be) a whole-of-government approach."Trump already met with pharma leaders, lab leaders, airline leaders, nursing home leaders."We're bringing all of the business of the country to bear to protect the health of the American people."Today health insurersMoney quote:"I am pleased to report, as you requested Mr. President All the insurance companies here today or before today have agreed to waive all co-pays for coronavirus testing and extend coverage for coronavirus treatment in all their benefit plans."They've also agreed to cover telemedicine,"The CEOs have also agreed to no surprise billing."Showed information from coronavirus.gov
More



March 10, 202012:46 

In Town Pool Report #6
We interrupt transcription service for a motorcade interlude.
We started rolling at 12:43



March 10, 202012:49 

In Town Pool Report #7
We arrived at the Hill at 12:49



March 10, 202012:59 

In Town Pool Report #8
At 12:53 POTUS strode into Ohio Clock Corridor. Sen Roy Blunt and Mitch Mx Connell escorted him.
Also seen trailing behind -Mnuchin, VP Pence, Larry Kudlow, Peter Navarro
Republicans only at lunch.



March 10, 202014:08 

In Town Pool Report #9
POTUS left the lunch at 1:55
Trump talked to ores with Mnuchin standing next to him
"We just had a great meeting"
On Democrats"They came in very chopped up"A lot of the things they wanted before"I guess it's not a big deal to get tested"If he had symptoms"You people would be the first to know it"
"We're at 26 deaths"
Also saw Hogan Gidley and Katie Miller
Will he fire anyone?Team doing a good jobGavin Newsom
"Stay calm. It will go away"
Out at 2:02
Transcript for Coronavirus Task Force has been released.



March 10, 202014:42 

In Town Pool Report #10
Pool did not see POTUS leave motorcade when we arrived at the White House around 2:10.
On the way to the Hill it was raining, so there were a few pedestrians that watched the motorcade. No signs.
On the way back, one woman gave the caravan the finger and a little girl waved.
At 4:30, POTUS will give Gen. Jack Keane the Medal of Freedom in the East Room.
This fine profile on Keane from Eliana Johnson.
https://www.politico.com/story/2019/07/02/keane-fox-news-iran-trump-1394148
You can watch live here.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=y0_QOQcTSkU
Later,



March 10, 202016:50 

In Town Pool Report #11
You can watch the Medal of Freedom ceremony on Whitehouse.gov Live
Seen
Larry Kudlow, Sen. Lindsey Graham, Secretary Pompeo, Bill Barr, Mike Esper
Waiting for list of attendees.



March 10, 202017:04 

In Town Pool Report #12
FLOTUs entered the East Room at 4:49.
Then POTUS was announced with Gen Jack Keane.
You can see for yourself..,



March 10, 202017:07 

In Town Pool Report #13
From Judd Deere
Today, President Donald J. Trump will present the Medal of Freedom to General Jack Keane. The Medal of Freedom is our Nation's highest honor for civilian accomplishment.
General Jack Keane is one of our Nation's most distinguished military leaders. General Keane proudly served his country in Vietnam as a paratrooper, receiving the Silver Star for his courage and gallantry in action. His steadfast leadership as a four-star General and as Vice Chief of Staff of the Army provided stability and direction for those under his command. Since retiring from the military, General Keane has remained engaged on matters of foreign policy, devoting himself to developing policies that confront the dynamic threats facing our Nation. The United States proudly honors General Jack Keane, whose tireless devotion to our country has defined him as a true American patriot.
The following individuals are expected to attend:
The White HousePresident Donald J. TrumpLarry Kudlow, Assistant to the President and Director of the National Economic CouncilLTG Joseph Kellogg, Assistant to the President and National Security Advisor for the Vice PresidentTim Pataki, Deputy Assistant to the President and Director of the Office of Public LiaisonGeneral Mark Milley, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff
Trump AdministrationSecretary Mike Pompeo, Department of StateSecretary Mark Esper, Department of DefenseAttorney General William Barr, Department of JusticeSecretary Dan Brouillette, Department of Energy
Member of CongressSenator Lindsey Graham, SC



March 10, 202017:13 

In Town Pool Report #14
Keane near tears "and you can hear it in my voice"
And it is over at 5:13



March 10, 202017:45 

In Town Pool Report #15
White House daily coronavirus press briefing is about to begin.
Vice President's shield is on the podium -- which means POTUS is unlikely to appear. (Although I am not doing so hot in the personal prediction department today.)
Press staff is bringing in charts.
You can watch it live.
https://www.whitehouse.gov/live/



March 10, 202018:30 

In Town Pool Report #16 - LID!
[APP Note: No additional text was included in this report.]




  