
    "Cruz for President" Video Announcement: "It's a time for truth"
HOUSTON, TX — Today, U.S. Sen. Ted Cruz (R-TX) announced the launch of "Cruz for President," marking the official start of his campaign to seek the 2016 Republican nomination for President of the United States.
In a new video released this morning, Senator Cruz declared "It's a time for truth," and shared his vision for empowering the American people and restoring accountability and responsibility in Washington.
Click here for official announcement video.
Transcript of the video:
Sen. Cruz: My story is like that of so many other American families.
I'm the son of an immigrant father, who fled oppression in Cuba and came to this country with just a hundred dollars to his name.
My mom was a pioneer in computer science, smashing glass ceilings at a time when women were discouraged from following their dreams.
And now as a husband to Heidi, and a father to our two little girls, Caroline and Catherine, I try to share the same messages of hope, freedom
And faith in God that I was raised with.
That's why I've worked so hard to lead the fights to defend these cherished values.
Like the historic battle to defund ObamaCare,
Standing up to the leadership from both parties to fight a debt ceiling increase,
And putting everything on the line to stop President Obama's illegal and unconstitutional amnesty.
We've sent a clear message that America will stand with our allies and against our enemies,
And taken on an IRS that was threatening and intimidating its citizens.
The divide that exists in our country isn't between political parties – it's between Washington and the rest of us.
It's a time for truth.
A time to rise to the challenge, just as Americans have always done,
And give bold voice and action to reclaiming the unlimited potential of each and every one of us.
Your fight, is my fight.
I believe in America and her people.
I believe in the conservative principles upon which this country was built.
And I believe we can stand up and restore our promise, honor the Constitution and re-establish our leadership in the world.
It's going to take a new generation of courageous conservatives to help make America great again,
And I'm ready to stand with you to lead the fight.
I'm Ted Cruz.
If you want more of the same there will be plenty to choose from.
But if you want real conservative change, and a proven record, I hope I can earn your support
Voiceover: Ted Cruz for President.

Senator Cruz also released a thirty second ad in spanish. That ad is available here.
Opting to forgo what has become known as the "explore phase" of a presidential campaign, Senator Cruz is signaling his confidence in having both the grassroots support and the financial resources necessary to win the Republican nomination.
  