
    "Romney Deserves Ohio's Support"
Cincinnati Enquirer
Editorial
March 3, 2012
http://news.cincinnati.com
Republican voters can no longer ignore the obvious: There is only one GOP candidate for president who has the temperament, character and discipline to lead the nation. One candidate with the business experience and management skills befitting a chief executive. One candidate who can appeal to a broad enough spectrum of voters to win in November. That candidate is Mitt Romney.
We endorse him wholeheartedly in Tuesday's Ohio primary. Romney is best suited to represent the GOP mainstream, advance a thoughtful conservative agenda, offer a strong alternative to President Obama and lead the nation into a new era of progress if elected this fall.
For the good of the country as well as their party, Republicans should not reject their most electable candidate. Romney talks conservative, and his track record backs it up. Among his attributes:
• In the private sector, he helped rescue companies and hone their business practices, often saving and creating jobs.
• He rescued the 2002 Olympics from financial disarray in the wake of 9/11, bringing the games stability and renewed esteem.
• As governor of Massachusetts, he enjoyed remarkable success in a state dominated by Democrats, yet displayed the fiscal discipline to cut taxes while wiping out a $3 billion deficit.
• As a manager, he's focused on problem-solving and bringing people together — skills that are essential in the Oval Office.
...
Always a key battleground state, Ohio is especially important in 2012 as a microcosm of the nation's economic struggle and rebound. Its issues — job growth, a healthy business climate, creative solutions to fund public needs — are right in Romney's wheelhouse.
This is Mitt Romney's time. And this is the place.
Ohioans have the chance Tuesday to reset the nation's political discourse and help America refocus on rational, results-oriented policies. They should make the most of it. They should support Mitt Romney for the GOP nomination.
  