
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate three individuals and designate one individual to serve in his Administration:
The President intends to nominate Sean Ian McCormack, of the District of Columbia, to be Assistant Secretary of State (Public Affairs). A member of the Foreign Service, Mr. McCormack recently served as Special Assistant to the President, Spokesman for the National Security Council and Deputy White House Press Secretary for Foreign Policy. Prior to joining the Administration, he served at the U.S. Embassy in Algiers, Algeria and at the U.S. Embassy in Ankara, Turkey. Earlier in his career, Mr. McCormack worked as an analyst for Meridian Corporation. He received his bachelor's degree from Colby College and his master's degree from the University of Maryland.
The President intends to nominate Ellen G. Engleman Conners, of Indiana, to be Chairman of the National Transportation Safety Board, for a term of two years. Ms. Engleman Conners has served as a Member and Chairman of the National Transportation Safety Board since 2003. Prior to that, she was the Administrator of the Research and Special Programs Administration at the Department of Transportation. From 1994 until 2001, Ms. Engleman Conners was President and CEO of Electricore, Inc. She previously served as Director of Corporate and Government Affairs at Direct Relief International. Ms. Engleman Conners received her bachelor's degree and J.D. from Indiana University and her master's degree from Harvard University's Kennedy School of Government.
The President intends to nominate Mark V. Rosenker, of Maryland, to be a Member of the National Transportation Safety Board, for a five-year term expiring December 31, 2010. The President also intends to designate him Vice Chairman for a term of two years. General Rosenker has served as a Member and Vice Chair of the National Transportation Safety Board since 2003. Prior to that, he served as Deputy Assistant to the President and Director of the White House Military Office. A Major General in the U.S. Air Force Reserve, General Rosenker began his service in the U.S. Air Force in 1969. He is the recipient of the Air Force Distinguished Service Medal and previously served on the American Battle Monuments Commission. General Rosenker earned his bachelor's degree from the University of Maryland.
  