
    HOUSTON, Texas – Today, Presidential candidate Ted Cruz announced the personal endorsement of Concerned Women for America (CWA) CEO and President, Penny Nance. In her video endorsement of Cruz, Nance addressed the concerns of many conservatives regarding the issues that are at risk for this country, like life and marriage and a President nominating Supreme Court justices.
View video here.

"You know American woman have carried every presidential election since 1964," said Nance. "I've thought long and hard about who should be our next President. So many issues hang in the balance, the issue of life, marriage, we have between one and maybe four Supreme Court Justices that are going to be appointed by the next President. I have spent a lifetime working to support conservative principles. And believe me I prayed and labored over who I think should be the next President but today I've made a decision and so I'm coming to you in front of the White House to let you be the first to know. Today I'm announcing my support for Ted Cruz for President."
"I am honored to have the endorsement of Penny," said Cruz. "She has spent her lifetime standing up and defending issues that are most important to conservatives like life and marriage. She has been a tireless voice for liberty, inspiring thousands nationwide. Penny is a strong and principled woman of faith. I am thrilled to have her leadership and looking forward to continue to coalesce conservatives around this campaign."
Penny Young Nance, CEO and President of Concerned Women for America (CWA), is a recognized national authority on cultural, children's, and women's issues. As the CEO and President of the nation's largest public policy women's organization, Nance oversees more than 500,000 participating CWA members across the country. Nance most recently served as President of Nance and Associates and as Special Advisor for the Federal Communications Commission (FCC), where she advised the Chairman and the Commissioners on media and social issues. Before joining the FCC, Mrs. Nance was founder and President of the Kids First Coalition, a non-profit organization focused on educating Capitol Hill, the media, and the public on a variety of issues related to children.
*Organization is for identification purposes only
  