
    Today, Minnesota Senator Tina Smith released the following statement announcing her endorsement of Joe Biden for President of the United States:
"Today I'm proud to share that I'm supporting Joe Biden because he's shown me that he has the heart, the experience and the values to lead us forward as President. I trust him to do what's right for the state and country I love so much. I believe we're at a turning point in America and we must turn toward more justice, freedom, and opportunity for everyone, not just for those who are rich and well connected. We need Joe right now, because he understands what people's lives are like, and he'll put people first.
"At the Democratic National Convention in Milwaukee, WI, our party will choose who best to unify us and lead our country forward. I will proudly support any Democratic nominee over President Trump, whose chaotic, self-serving Presidency is hurting Minnesotans every day. With Joe at the top of the ticket, I believe we bring people together to win the Presidency and elections up and down the ballot. We can take back the Senate and say goodbye to McConnell's cynical efforts to obstruct progress and put special interests before people's interests.
"With Joe, we can fulfill promises: Access to affordable health care; lower Rx drug prices; protect and expand social security; address climate change; action on gun violence; get dark money out of politics; defend voting rights; protect the right to organize. Democracy is not something that just happens, it takes hard work. Joe has been working to build a more perfect union his entire life, and I believe that he is the best person in this moment to lead us forward."
Today's endorsements come on the heels of key endorsements in Minnesota, including Senator Amy Klobuchar, Congressman Colin Peterson, as well as 35 key Minnesota local and statewide elected officials, community leaders, and advocates.
Biden leads the field in congressional endorsements with support from more than 80 U.S. representatives and 13 U.S. senators, including the most endorsements from members of both the Congressional Black Caucus and the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. Nationally, Biden for President has previously announced more than 1,700 endorsements from national, state, and local leaders, including current and former U.S. senators and representatives, governors, state elected officials, community leaders, and national security professionals.
  