
    Today, Michigan Congresswomen Elissa Slotkin, Haley Stevens, and Brenda Lawrence released the following statements endorsing Joe Biden for President of the United States:
"Today, I filled out my absentee ballot for Joe Biden. I did so for a host of reasons, but most importantly because I hear from my constituents every day that they want an end to the all-or-nothing politics that have so polarized our country. All-or-nothing doesn't get us lower drug costs or more affordable healthcare. It doesn't raise water quality standards. It doesn't protect our country from national security threats that endanger every American, regardless of party. In Michigan, we have a rich tradition of hard work, decency, and passionate pragmatism. That is what is expected of us in our lives, and that is what I believe we need from our elected leaders. That is why I support Joe Biden," said Congresswoman Elissa Slotkin.
"When the auto industry was on its back, Joe Biden was determined to get workers raring to go again. He knew Michigan would be devastated if GM and Chrysler went bankrupt. But Joe Biden never quit, and now our auto industry is back on its feet. As a Member of Congress who flipped a Republican seat in 2018, I know the workers and families in my community. They're fighters. And they're not looking for lip service or promises that can't be delivered. They're looking for a leader who knows what their challenges are, and who rises above politics to deliver. That's Joe Biden and it's why we need him in the White House," said Congresswoman Haley Stevens.
"I proudly announce my endorsement of presidential candidate Joe Bidden, in a hope to restore America's faith in our democracy. We must have a president who values telling the truth and who won't dole out empty promises or stoke fear and anger. The people of this great country deserve a president who will not only listen but respect women's voices and rights. Like so many Michiganders, Joe Biden and his family have known real loss and economic insecurity -- and like us he's persevered, never forgetting where he comes from. In order to bring about real change, for everyday Americans, we need to elect Joe Biden as President to help us in our fight to lower prescription drug costs, protect women's reproductive rights, and provide for an affordable and accessible education. Joe Biden in the White House means we can accomplish these goals and so much more. Let's rebuild America — let's elect Joe Biden as our next President of the United States," said Congresswoman Brenda Lawrence.
Slotkin, Stevens, and Lawrence join a growing list of prominent Michigan leaders supporting Biden, including Governor Gretchen Whitmer, former Governor Jennifer Granholm, and former Michigan Senator Carl Levin, who announced their support this week. In addition, the Michigan Democratic Party Black Caucus, Detroit Mayor Mike Duggan, State Representatives Joe Tate, Karen Whitsett, and Tenisha Yancey, and State Senator Marshall Bullock have also endorsed Biden.
Biden leads the field in congressional endorsements with support from more than 70 U.S. Representatives and nine U.S. Senators, including the most endorsements from members of both the Congressional Black Caucus and the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. Nationally, Biden for President has previously announced more than 1,500 endorsements from national, state, and local leaders, including current and former U.S. senators and representatives, governors, state elected officials, community leaders, and national security professionals.
  