
    LET ME thank Mrs. Hays, Mrs. Culbreth, Mrs. Shriver, and all of you for letting me come here without Betty. [Laughter] She did ask that I extend her apologies for not coming. She spent 6 days down in Florida last week trying to get my polls as high as hers. [Laughter] And she is going out to Arizona and California next week, and she just asked me to hope that you would understand that she couldn't come so she sent a substitute on her behalf. [Laughter]
I do want to thank all of you for the wonderful experiences I have had going back to the days when Hazel Myers1 and the local chapter of the Business and Professional Women used to invite me to their meetings at least once a year. And I am delighted to see some of the people that we have in the White House and the administration who are interested in and have been active in your organization-Virginia Allan, who, as you know, is the Deputy Assistant Secretary over at State for Women's Affairs [Public Affairs] and is doing a great job with the International Women's Year program, and Karen Keesling, who, of course, handles women's programs in the White House for me.
1 Michigan State president of the National Federation of Business and Professional Women's Clubs 1940-41.
Betty did ask me to say to all of you that she will be out there in the frontline, as she has been, with all of you on behalf of ERA. She has never been very subtle, and I don't think she will be subtle in the future. [Laughter] But if I could add a postscript to that. I know those of you who were active in the effort a few years ago know from Martha Griffiths, one of my former colleagues in the House of Representatives, who, without any asking by me, went over and testified before the Senate Committee on Rules on my behalf when I was nominated for Vice President, and Martha tells a story, and I will repeat it because it is from her.
In the days when we needed about 17 more individuals in the House to sign the discharge petition, Martha came over to our side of the aisle and asked if I could round up a few more signatures. Within a relatively short period of time we got those 17 and the petition came to the floor of the House and it was approved in the House and, subsequently, in the Senate. And now you need, what, four more States? So, I wish you the very best in this effort.
I know that you have had a great gathering here. I am honored to be invited and very, very pleased to have a chance to say a few words. The organization I have known for a long time, and I know the quality of people that are in your organization, whether it is in Grand Rapids or any other community throughout our country. I compliment you for the quality of the people and the kind of efforts and programs that you espouse and support. They are all good for America. And I thank you very, very much for the chance to be here tonight and to say hello.
Thank you.
  