
    If You Watch One Thing Today: Hillary made a surprise appearance on "Saturday Night Live." Watch.
More Endorsements: General Hugh Shelton (Ret.) endorsed Hillary. He served two terms as Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff... "Working Girl" star Melanie Griffith and "Desperate Housewives" star Eva Longoria Parker endorsed Hillary... In Texas, El Paso Mayor John Cook endorsed Hillary... In Ohio, the Zanesville Times Recorder endorsed Hillary. Read more.
Ready to Lead: Hillary compares her national security experience to that of Sens. McCain and Obama. Watch.
Previewing Today: Hillary holds rallies in Westerville, Austintown, Akron, and Cleveland and delivers remarks to a Democratic Party dinner in Mayfield Heights, Ohio... President Bill Clinton hosts events in Houston, College Station, Marshall, Wichita Falls, and Abilene, Texas.
Visible in the States: In Vermont, Hillary supporters hold visibilities in White River Junction, Bellows Falls, Rutland, Bennington, and South Burlington... In Ohio, five mayors from across the state start a grassroots blitz through Columbus, Lima, and Toledo.
If You Read One Thing Today: "My choice," a column in the Cleveland Plain Dealer. "On Tuesday I will do something I have never done before and may never get the chance to do again. I am voting for a woman for president." Read more.
Stumping in Texas: The "Juntos con Hillary, Una Vida Mejor" tour continues. Rep. Joe Baca campaigns in Corpus Christi; Rep. Loretta Sanchez, Los Angeles Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa, and former Secretary of Housing and Urban Development Henry Cisneros visit Dallas/Ft. Worth; California Speaker Fabian Nuñez stumps in El Paso; Sen. Robert Menendez and activists Dolores Huerta and Raul Yzaguirre campaign in Houston; Rep. Grace Napolitano visits Lubbock; United Farm Workers President Arturo Rodriguez campaigns in McAllen; and Rep. Henry Cuellar visits Rio Grande City.
Real Solutions: "Clinton will change our future for the better," a column in the Houston Chronicle. Read more.
Active in Rhode Island: Rep. James Langevin kicks-off a canvass in Warwick... New York Latinos canvass for Hillary in Providence, Central Falls, and Pawtucket... General Treasurer Frank Caprio visits a senior center in West Warwick... Wellesley College students and alumni phone bank, canvass, and help get out the vote.
On Tap: On Monday at 6:30 p.m. CST, Hillary will answer Texans' questions in an unprecedented program, "The Stories of Texas: A Texas Sized Town Hall." The event will be broadcast live on Fox Sports Net (FSN) Southwest and HillaryClinton.com... On Monday at 11 p.m. EST/10 p.m. CST, Hillary will appear on "The Daily Show with Jon Stewart."
In Case You Missed It: "Obama: A thin record for a bridge builder," a column in the Washington Post. Read more.
Making News: Antoin (Tony) Rezko, Sen. Obama's "political patron" and friend of 17 years, goes on trial on corruption charges starting Monday. "As developer heads to trial, questions linger over a deal with Obama." Read more.
  