
    Today, President Donald J. Trump announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key positions in his Administration:
James H. Anderson of Virginia to be a Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Policy. 
Dr. Anderson is currently the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Strategy, Plans, and Capabilities. Dr. Anderson previously served as Vice President of Academic Affairs at Marine Corps University and as the Director of Middle East Policy in the Office of the Secretary of Defense.
Dr. Anderson has extensive overseas experience, which includes working as the Director of the Program of Advanced Security Studies at the George C. Marshall European Center for Security Studies. From 1986 to 1989, he served on active duty as an intelligence officer in the United States Marine Corps. His professional awards include the Department of the Army Superior Civilian Service Award and the Office of the Secretary of Defense Medal for Exceptional Public Service.
Dr. Anderson earned his Ph.D. in International Relations and his Master of Arts in Law and Diplomacy from the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy, Tufts University, and his B.A. from Amherst College.
Jocelyn Samuels of Maryland and Andrea R. Lucas of Virginia to be Members of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission.
Ms. Samuels is the Executive Director at the Roberta A. Conroy Scholar of Law and Policy at the Williams Institute at the University of California, Los Angeles School of Law.
From 2014 through early 2017, Ms. Samuels was the Director of the Office for Civil Rights at the Department of Health and Human Services, where she oversaw civil rights enforcement with respect to healthcare providers and human services agencies. She also served as a political appointee at the Civil Rights Division of the Department of Justice, including as Acting Assistant Attorney General for the Division, where she managed work across a range of civil rights issues, including discrimination in education and employment, prosecution of hate crimes, and protections for individuals with disabilities.
Earlier in her career, Ms. Samuels spent a decade as a senior policy attorney in the Office of Legal Counsel at the United States Equal Employment Opportunity Commission; she also worked as a Labor Counsel to Senator Ted Kennedy and as Vice President for Education and Employment at the National Women's Law Center.
Ms. Lucas has practiced in the Washington, D.C. office of Gibson, Dunn, & Crutcher LLP in the firm's labor and employment group for almost a decade.
Ms. Lucas has represented clients before the United States Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, other administrative agencies, and Federal and State courts nationwide in a wide variety of employment-related disputes. Ms. Lucas served as a law clerk to Judge James C. Cacheris of the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia.
She received her B.A., magna cum laude, from the University of Pennsylvania, and her J.D. from the University of Virginia, where she served as an Articles Editor on the Virginia Law Review.
Marvin Kaplan of Kansas and Lauren McGarity McFerran of Maryland to be Members of the National Labor Relations Board.
Mr. Kaplan is currently a Member of the National Labor Relations Board.
Before joining the board, Mr. Kaplan was the Chief Counsel of the Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission. Prior to that service, he spent almost seven years serving as Counsel, first to the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform and then to the House Committee on Education and Workforce. In 2007, he began his public service as a Special Assistant in the Department of Labor's Office of Labor-Management and Standards.
Mr. Kaplan received a B.S. from Cornell University and a J.D. from Washington University in St. Louis.
Ms. McFerran most recently served as a Member of the National Labor Relations Board.
She was previously the Chief Labor Counsel for the Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions, where she also served as Deputy Staff Director. Before her work in the United States Senate, Ms. McFerran was an Associate at Bredhoff & Kaiser, P.L.L.C. from 2002 to 2005. From 2001 to 2002, she was a Law Clerk for Chief Judge Carolyn Dineen King on the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit.
Ms. McFerran received a B.A. from Rice University and a J.D. from Yale Law School.
Nancy B. Beck of New York to be Chair and Commissioner of the Consumer Products Safety Commission.
Dr. Beck is the Principal Deputy Assistant Administrator for the Office of Chemical Safety and Pollution Prevention at the Environmental Protection Agency.
Dr. Beck has spent the majority of her career in the Federal Government. She has served as a career employee under Presidents Clinton, Bush, and Obama. Before joining the Federal Government, Dr. Beck worked for the Washington State Department of Health preparing health and exposure assessments for communities concerned about environmental exposures. Dr. Beck also has experience working in regulatory science policy for the American Chemistry Council.
Dr. Beck has a B.S. from Cornell University and a M.S. and Ph.D. in environmental health from the University of Washington.
—
Today, President Donald J. Trump announced his intent to appoint the following individuals to key positions in his Administration:
Heather Wilson of Texas to be a Member of the National Science Board for a six-year term expiring May 10, 2026.
Patrick Gelsinger of California to be a Member of the President's National Security Telecommunications Advisory Committee.
Stephen Gilchrist of South Carolina, to be a member of the United States Commission on Civil Rights for the remainder of a six-year term expiring November 29, 2025. 
  