
    Today, 40 Wisconsin leaders announced their support for Joe Biden – citing his service alongside President Barack Obama, bold vision for the future, and unique ability to steer the country through this crisis.
"Amid panic, pandemic and economic downfall, Joe Biden has been the leader America has counted on to help us heal and come back stronger than ever," said former Wisconsin Governor Jim Doyle. "We need a president who never loses sight of the challenges working people face, and who will fight tooth-and-nail to make sure they not only survive, but thrive. That's always been the Joe Biden I've known as Wisconsin's governor, and he's the leader who will unite and carry this country forward."
"The current pandemic is inhibiting all facets of daily life for Wisconsinites and we need a leader whose compassion for their livelihoods is clear — and that's been Joe Biden from the outset," said Wisconsin State Senator and Democratic Minority Leader Jennifer Shilling (D-La Crosse). "Time and again, Joe Biden has focused squarely on the challenges working people face, then never quitting until he delivers for them. In this current crisis where workers have been laid off and families who can't pay their bills are in fear of what's to come — Joe Biden has demonstrated the calm, steady leadership we need to pull together and make it through. It's time to restore confidence in the White House instead of more fear and fraying in our communities. It's time to elect Joe Biden."
"More than ever, our country needs tested leadership that can provide our communities with the confidence and clear direction they deserve — that's Joe Biden," said Wisconsin State Representative and Assembly Democratic Leader Gordon Hintz (D-Oshkosh). "With Joe Biden's experience and steady hand at the wheel, we can restore certainty for American families and dignity for American workers in Oshkosh, Wisconsin and across America."
"As an alum of both Obama campaigns, this election is personal to me," said Chris Walton, Chairman of the Milwaukee County Democrats. "Joe Biden was a loyal, dedicated partner to President Obama – as Vice President, Joe worked tirelessly to pass Obamacare, expand LGBTQ rights, and fight the existential threat of climate change. Now, Joe is undoubtedly the best candidate to beat Donald Trump and get bold, progressive ideas across the finish line. But most importantly, Joe is ready to lead and steer us through a crisis – he's the type of candidate Democrats need to meet this moment, and that's why I'll be casting my ballot for Joe Biden."
Leaders announcing their support for Vice President Biden include:

Jim Doyle, former Governor of Wisconsin
Chris Walton, Chairman of the Milwaukee County Democrats
Jennifer Shilling, Wisconsin State Senator from La Crosse
Gordon Hintz, Wisconsin State House Minority Leader from Osh Kosh
Gary Hebl, Wisconsin State Senator from Sun Prairie
Timothy Carpenter, Wisconsin State Senator from Milwaukee
Christine Sinicki, Wisconsin State Representative from Milwaukee
Dianne Hesselbein, Wisconsin State Representative from Middleton
Jason Fields, Wisconsin State Representative from Milwaukee
Lisa Subeck, Wisconsin State Representative from Madison
LaKeisha Myers, Wisconsin State Representative from Milwaukee
Mike Sheridan, former Speaker of the Wisconsin House from Janesville
Dana Wachs, former Wisconsin State Representative from Eau Claire
Deb Kolste, Wisconsin State Representative from Milwaukee
Amanda Stuck, Wisconsin State Representative from Appleton
John T. Chisholm, Milwaukee County District Attorney
Gary Lemke, Village President from Potter
David Cullen, Milwaukee County Treasurer
Tony Staskunas, Milwaukee County Supervisor
Israel Ramon, Milwaukee County Register of Deeds
Tom Sieber, Brown County Supervisor from Green Bay
Jason Knoll, Dane County Supervisor from Verona
Andrew Schauer, Dane County Supervisor
Scott McDonnell, Dane County Clerk
Clint Anderson, Beloit City Councilmember
Trevor Jung, Alderman from Racine
Ryan Sorenson, Sheboygan City Councilman
Chantia Lewis, Alderwoman and U.S. Air Force Veteran from Milwaukee
Mo Cheeks, former Alder from Madison
Kathleen Arciszewski, former Milwaukee County Supervisor
Khary Penebaker, gun violence survivor and advocate from Waukesha
Tricia Zunker, School Committee Member and candidate for United States Congress in the Seventh Congressional District from Wausau
John Zapfel, Political Director for IBEW Local 494 and candidate for City of Oconomowoc District 4 Alderman
Mike Tate, former Chair of the Wisconsin Democratic Party
Rev. Daryn Crenshaw, Pastor at Christ Community Baptist Church in Racine
Rev. J.K. Patterson, retired pastor from Milwaukee
Kevin Conroy, CEO of Exact Sciences from Madison
Sheila Conroy, Community Activist from Madison
Ann Jacobs, Attorney from Milwaukee
Christine Bremer-Muggli, Attorney and former Democratic National Committee member from Fond du Lac

Nationally, Biden for President has previously announced more than 2,500 endorsements from national, state, and local leaders, including current and former U.S. senators and representatives, governors, state elected officials, community leaders, and national security professionals. National unions representing a range of other workers and professions have also endorsed Biden, including the International Association of Firefighters (IAFF), International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers (IBEW), National Education Association (NEA), United Food and Commercial Workers (UFCW), American Federation of Teachers (AFT), American Federation of State, County, and Municipal Employees (AFSCME), International Association of Bridge, Structural and Ornamental Iron Workers (IW), Amalgamated Transit Union (ATU), Operative Plasterers' & Cement Masons' International Association (OPCMIA), and International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers (IAM), and the International Longshoremen's Association (ILA).
The health and safety of our staff, supporters, and the general public is Biden for President's number one priority. During this pandemic, we are calling on all voters to follow social distancing guidelines to slow the spread of COVID-19. Officials in Wisconsin have issued precautions to ensure you can exercise your right to vote while following social distancing guidelines. Any registered Wisconsin voter may request a vote-by-mail ballot online. A request for a vote-by-mail ballot must be made by Thursday, April 2 at 5 PM. Learn more at joebiden.com/voter-guide.
  