
    ARLINGTON, VA -- U.S. Senator John McCain's presidential campaign today launched a new web ad, entitled "Man In The Arena." The web ad highlights John McCain's vision and leadership in these historic and dangerous times. 
VIEW THE NEW WEB AD HERE: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=J_A53PAxeR8; www.johnmccain.com/maninthearena/ 
Script for "Man In The Arena" (2:00-Web) 
CHYRON: The Time Has Come 
SIR WINSTON CHURCHILL: "We shall fight on the beaches, we shall fight on the landing grounds, we shall fight in the fields and in the streets, we shall fight in the hills, we shall never surrender!" 
JOHN MCCAIN: "Keep that faith. Keep your courage. Stick together. Stay strong. Do not yield. Do not flinch. Stand up. ... We're Americans. We're Americans, and we'll never surrender. They will." 
CHYRON: For a Man in the Arena 
PRESIDENT THEODORE ROOSEVELT: "With all my heart and soul ... I pledge you my word to do everything I can to put every particle of courage, of common sense, and of strength that I have at your disposal. ... Surely there never was a fight better worth making than the one in which we are in." 
CHYRON: Ready 
JOHN MCCAIN: "I know who I am and what I want to do. I don't seek the office out of a sense of entitlement. I owe America more than she has ever owed me." 
SIR WINSTON CHURCHILL: "Never give in, never give in, never, never, never, never -- in nothing, great or small, large or petty -- never give in except to convictions of honour and good sense. Never yield to force; never yield to the apparently overwhelming might of the enemy." 
CHYRON: More Than Aspiration ... Leadership 
JOHN MCCAIN: "I have been an imperfect servant of my country for many years. I have never lived a day, in good times or bad, that I haven't been proud of the privilege. Don't tell me what we can't do. Don't tell me we can't make our country stronger and the world safer. We can. We must. And when I'm President we will. Thank you and God bless you." 
CHYRON: McCain -- President 2008 
AD FACTS: JOHN MCCAIN 2008, "MAN IN THE ARENA"
Sir Winston Churchill, 1940: "We shall fight on the beaches, we shall fight on the landing grounds, we shall fight in the fields and in the streets, we shall fight in the hills; we shall never surrender." (Sir Winston Churchill, House of Commons, London, June 4, 1940) 
John McCain, 2004: "Keep that faith. Keep your courage. Stick together. Stay strong. Do not yield. Do not flinch. Stand up. ... We're Americans. We're Americans, and we'll never surrender. They will." (John McCain, 2004 Republican National Convention, New York, NY, August, 30, 2004) 
President Theodore Roosevelt, 1912: "With all my heart and soul ... I pledge you my word to do everything I can to put every particle of courage, of common sense, and of strength that I have at your disposal. ... Surely there never was a fight better worth making than the one in which we are in." (President Theodore Roosevelt, "A Confession of Faith," Progressive Party National Convention, Chicago, IL, August 6, 1912) 
John McCain, 2008: "I know who I am and what I want to do. I don't seek the office out of a sense of entitlement. I owe America more than she has ever owed me." (John McCain, Remarks On Wisconsin Primary Victory, Columbus, OH, February 19, 2008) 
Sir Winston Churchill, 1941: "Never give in, never give in, never, never, never, never -- in nothing, great or small, large or petty -- never give in except to convictions of honour and good sense. Never yield to force; never yield to the apparently overwhelming might of the enemy." (Sir Winston Churchill, Harrow School, London, October 29, 1941) 
John McCain, 2008: "I have been an imperfect servant of my country for many years. I have never lived a day, in good times or bad, that I haven't been proud of the privilege. Don't tell me what we can't do. Don't tell me we can't make our country stronger and the world safer. We can. We must. And when I'm President we will. Thank you and God bless you." (John McCain, Remarks On Wisconsin Primary Victory, Columbus, OH, February 19, 2008)
  