
    The following list does not include promotions of members of the Uniformed Services, nominations to the Service Academies, or nominations of Foreign Service officers.
Submitted March 22
William J. Crowe, of Virginia, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland.
Theodore Alexander McKee, of Pennsylvania, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the Third Circuit, vice A. Leon Higginbotham, Jr., retired.
Raymond L. Finch, of the Virgin Islands, to be a Judge for the District Court of the Virgin Islands for a term of 10 years, vice David V. O'Brien, deceased.
Paul L. Friedman, of the District of Columbia, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of Columbia, vice Gerhard A. Gesell, retired.
Vanessa D. Gilmore, of Texas, to be U.S. District Judge for the Southern District of Texas, a new position.
Gladys Kessler, of the District of Columbia, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of Columbia, vice Michael Boudin, resigned.
Emmet G. Sullivan, of the District of Columbia, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of Columbia, vice Louis F. Oberdorfer, retired.
Ricardo M. Urbina, of the District of Columbia, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of Columbia, vice Aubrey E. Robinson, Jr., retired.
Roger Hilsman, of New York, to be a member of the National Security Education Board for a term of 4 years (new position).
Robert N. Shamansky, of Ohio, to be member of the National Security Education Board for a term of 4 years (new position).
Stanley K. Sheinbaum, of California, to be a member of the National Security Education Board for a term of 4 years, vice John P. Roche, resigned.
Submitted March 24
Paul D. Borman, of Michigan, to be U.S. District Judge for the Eastern District of Michigan, vice Stewart A. Newblatt, retired.
Denny Chin, of New York, to be U.S. District Judge for the Southern District of New York (new position).
R. Samuel Paz, of California, to be U.S. District Judge for the Central District of California (new position).
Submitted March 25
Philip N. Diehl, of Texas, to be Director of the Mint for a term of 5 years, vice David J. Ryder.
  