
    To the Senate of the United States:
With a view to receiving the advice and consent of the Senate to ratification, I transmit herewith two separate but related agreements between the United States of America and the United Mexican States signed at Mexico City on December 11, 1968, namely:
(1) an agreement concerning radio broadcasting in the standard broadcasting band (535-1605 kHz), and
(2) an agreement concerning the operation of broadcasting stations in the standard band (535-1605 kHz), during a limited period prior to sunrise ("pre-sunrise") and after sunset ("postsunset" ).
I transmit also, for the information of the Senate, the report of the Secretary of State with respect to the two agreements.
Since the end of 1967, when the broadcasting agreement of January 29, 1957 ceased to be in force, there has been no agreement governing the relations between the United States and Mexico in the use of the standard broadcasting band. Relations of the United States with other major countries in the North American
Region in the broadcasting field continue to be governed by the North American Regional Broadcasting Agreement of November 15, 1950, to which Mexico is not a party.
The two agreements with Mexico have been concluded after negotiations extending over a period of more than two years between United States and Mexican delegations, with representatives of the United States broadcasting industry participating as advisers to the United States delegation. The Federal Communications Commission and the Department of State express the opinion that the best interests of the United States would be served by ratification and entry into force of both agreements, the substance of which is understood to be generally satisfactory to broadcasting interests in the United States.
The first-mentioned agreement, referred to as the broadcasting agreement, contains detailed provisions designed to resolve many engineering and allocation problems between the United States and Mexico, as explained more fully in the report of the Secretary of State.
The other agreement, referred to as the pre-sunrise/post-sunset agreement, is tied to the broadcasting agreement in the sense that it can be effective only so long as the broadcasting agreement remains in effect. The regulations therein for station operation with daytime facilities for limited periods of time before the sunrise-to-sunset period heretofore prescribed will enable the Federal Communications Commission to implement plans for pre-sunrise operation of United States daytime stations, so that, for the first time, it will be possible for a large number of such stations, now operating on seven clear (I-A) channels accorded to Mexico in the broadcasting agreement, to have uniform starting times throughout the year. Whereas the United States would gain from the provisions for pre-sunrise operation, Mexico would gain from the postsunset provisions.
The two agreements would be brought into force by the exchange of instruments of ratification and would remain in effect for a term of five years and indefinitely thereafter unless replaced by a new agreement or unless terminated by a one-year written notice from either party to the other party.
I recommend that the Senate give early and favorable consideration to the two agreements with Mexico.
RICHARD NIXON
The White House
March 25, 1969
  