
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate three individuals and appoint two individuals to serve in his administration.
The President intends to nominate Michael E. Baroody, of Virginia, to be Chairman and Member of the Consumer Product Safety Commission. Mr. Baroody currently serves as Executive Vice President of the National Association of Manufacturers. Prior to this, he served as Senior Vice President for Policy, Communications, and Public Affairs at the National Association of Manufacturers. Earlier in his career, he served as Assistant Secretary for Policy at the Department of Labor and Deputy Assistant to the President for Public Affairs. Mr. Baroody received his bachelor's degree from the University of Notre Dame.
The President intends to nominate Patrick D. Duddy, of Maine, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela. Mr. Duddy, a career member of the Foreign Service, currently serves as Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Bureau of Western Hemisphere Affairs. Prior to this, he served as Consul General of the United States in Sao Paulo, Brazil. Earlier in his career, he served as Deputy Chief of Mission in La Paz, Bolivia. Mr. Duddy received his bachelor's degree from Colby College and his master's degree from Northeastern University. He received his master's degree from the National War College.
The President intends to nominate David G. Nason, of Rhode Island, to be Assistant Secretary of the Treasury (Financial Institutions). Mr. Nason currently serves as Deputy Assistant Secretary for Financial Institutions Policy at the Department of the Treasury. Prior to this, he served as Counsel to a Commissioner of the Securities and Exchange Commission. Earlier in his career, he served as an attorney at Covington & Burling. Prior to that, he served as a law clerk to the Honorable Marvin J. Garbis of the United States District Court for the District of Maryland. Mr. Nason received his bachelor's degree and JD from American University.
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the Board of Visitors to the United States Military Academy:
Blake G. Hall, of Idaho
John Stringer Rainey, of South Carolina
  