
    Brady Quirk-Garvan steps down from party leadership role to endorse Cory Booker for president
Newark, NJ – This morning, Charleston County Democratic Party Chairman Brady Quirk-Garvan announced his plan to step down from the chairmanship and endorse Cory Booker for President, becoming the first local leader to endorse any candidate for president in 2020.
Quirk-Garvan is a campaign veteran with extensive experience working on campaigns in the state of South Carolina and across the country. In 2008, he worked for President Obama's campaign in Ohio. He has served as the chairman of the Charleston County Democratic Party since 2014.
Brady Quirk-Garvan announced his endorsement in a video posted to Twitter this morning.
Post and Courier: Leader of Charleston Democrats resigns so he can endorse Cory Booker for president "I don't want to be on the sidelines for this race," Quirk-Garvan told The Post and Courier of his decision ahead of the announcement. "Being the referee is a fun and important position — and having a party chair who is neutral is really important — and I'm just at a place where I want to be a player on the team now, not a referee."
"I think Cory Booker represents a younger generation, and he brings the same statesmanlike quality that Barack Obama did but with a lot more enthusiasm. I think he's someone who can speak to the base of the party, but also speak to moderates and independents," he said. 
CNN: Cory Booker picks up early endorsement in key primary state of South Carolina The announcement is significant for Booker not only because it marks the first endorsement out of South Carolina this cycle. but it could also give Booker an edge in an important, voter-rich area of the state. Charleston is the most populous city in South Carolina, while Charleston County is the third most populous county in the state. "Having met and spent time with several other candidates in the field, I am confident that Sen. Booker will inspire Americans from across the spectrum to remember that we are a stronger and better nation when we are looking out for one another," Quirk-Garvan said. "I did not take this endorsement lightly, nor was it an easy decision to step down as party chair. But I believe in my soul that Cory is the right leader in this critical time."
  