
    Today, President Donald J. Trump announced his intent to nominate a fifth wave of United States Marshals. The United States Marshal performs essential functions of protecting the Federal judiciary by apprehending fugitives, transporting prisoners, and protecting witnesses. These candidates share the President's vision for "Making America Safe Again." Accordingly, the President today announced his intent to nominate these individuals to serve their respective jurisdictions:
If confirmed, Dallas L. Carlson of North Dakota will serve as the United States Marshal for the District of North Dakota. Mr. Carlson has served as the Director of the North Dakota Bureau of Criminal Investigation since 2011. Mr. Carlson began his law enforcement career in 1977 as a Deputy Sheriff with the Ramsey County, North Dakota Sheriff's Office. He went on to serve the Devils Lake, North Dakota and Mandan, North Dakota Police Departments before joining the North Dakota Bureau of Criminal Investigation in 1989. He holds a Bachelor of University Studies degree from Dickinson State University and an Associate of Arts degree from Lake Region State College.
If confirmed, Sonya K. Chavez of New Mexico will serve as the United States Marshal for the District of New Mexico. Sonya K. Chavez is currently a Special Agent for the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), where she has served since 1996. In her nearly 22-year career with the FBI, she has supported the Albuquerque and Chicago field offices. As a Supervisory Special Agent from 2010 to 2017, Ms. Chavez led the Albuquerque Safe Streets Gang Task Force. Prior to joining the FBI, she served as a lead marketing account manager, press aide to the Office of the Governor of New Mexico, marketing director for the Albuquerque Hispano Chamber of Commerce, and television news anchor and reporter for KLST-TV in San Angelo, Texas. Ms. Chavez holds a Bachelor of Arts degree in journalism and mass communication from New Mexico State University, a Master of Arts degree in public administration from the University of New Mexico, and has completed postgraduate work in Intercultural Communication at the University of New Mexico.
If confirmed, Gregory Allyn Forest of North Carolina will serve as the United States Marshal for the Western District of North Carolina. Mr. Forest is currently the Deputy Director of International Trade Compliance for IOMAX USA, Inc. He began his law enforcement career with the Charlotte-Mecklenburg Police Department, where he served from 1986 to 1995. Mr. Forest then joined the U.S. Probation Office in the Western District of North Carolina, rising to the rank of Senior U.S. Probation Officer, Drug and Alcohol Treatment Specialist. In 2002, he was appointed United States Marshal for the Western District of North Carolina by President George W. Bush. He served in this capacity until 2004, when he returned to the U.S. Probation and Pretrial Services Office as Chief U.S. Probation Officer until his retirement in 2015. Mr. Forest holds a Bachelor of Science degree in Criminal Justice from the University of North Carolina at Charlotte.
If confirmed, Brendan O. Heffner of Illinois will serve as the United States Marshal for the Central District of Illinois. Mr. Heffner is currently the Chief of the Bloomington, Illinois Police Department. He began his law enforcement career as a patrolman with the Normal, Illinois Police Department in 1985. In 1989, Mr. Heffner became a state trooper with the Illinois State Police, where he worked in drug interdiction, internal investigations, labor relations, and counterterrorism; he also supervised a multi-jurisdictional narcotics task force. He rose through the ranks of the State Police, serving in command posts as Lieutenant, Captain, Commander, and, finally retiring in 2010, as Lieutenant Colonel. In retirement, he served as a Safety/Security Specialist for the State Farm Insurance Companies and as an instructor with the Illinois Law Enforcement Alarm System. He was hired as Chief of the Bloomington Police Department in 2013. Mr. Heffner holds a Bachelor of Science degree in mass communications from Illinois State University.
If confirmed, Bradley A. Maxwell of Illinois will serve as the United States Marshal for the Southern District of Illinois. Mr. Maxwell is currently the St. Louis Manager and Chief of Uniform Security for the Boeing Company. He joined Boeing in 2011 after a 20-year career in the U.S. Air Force. Mr. Maxwell began his career with the Air Force as a Quality Assurance Evaluator/Electro-Mechanical Minuteman Team Chief at Warren Air Force Base in Wyoming. In 2003, he graduated from the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center and became a Special Agent with the Air Force Office of Special Investigations (OSI). As a Special Agent, and later as Superintendent/Director of Operations for OSI at Scott Air Force Base (AFB), IL, he was deployed twice to Iraq, where he conducted insurgent and fugitive apprehensions and prisoner transports. Before his retirement, he returned to the Scott AF B as the Deputy Chief of Counterintelligence from 2010 to 2011. He holds two Associates of Applied Science degrees in criminal justice and electronic systems technology from the Community College of the Air Force and a Bachelor of Arts degree in criminal justice from Park University.
If confirmed, Theodor G. Short of Maine will serve as the United States Marshal for the District of Maine. Mr. Short is currently the Director of Security for Professional Security Consultants, Inc. in South Portland, Maine. He retired as Chief of Police for the towns of Kittery and Eliot in Maine in 2016, after 40 years in law enforcement. He served the Maine State Police from 1982 to 2004, retiring as the Troop Commander of Troop A; he served the Fairfield, Maine Police Department from 1977 to 1982. He holds a Master of Arts degree in Justice Administration from Norwich University, a Bachelor of Science degree in criminal justice from Husson College, and an Associate of Science degree in law enforcement technology from Southern Maine Community College.
  