
    Memorandum for the Director of the Office of Personnel Management 
Subject: Designation of Officers of the Office of Personnel Management
By the authority vested in me as President under the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including the Federal Vacancies Reform Act of 1998, 5 U.S.C. 3345 et seq., I hereby order that:
Section 1. Order of Succession. 
During any period when both the Director of the Office of Personnel Management (Director) and the Deputy Director of the Office of Personnel Management (Deputy Director) have died, resigned, or otherwise become unable to perform the functions and duties of the office of Director, the following officers of the Office of Personnel Management, in the order listed, shall perform the functions and duties of the office of Director, if they are eligible to act as Director under the provisions of the Federal Vacancies Reform Act of 1998, until such time as the Director or Deputy Director is able to perform the functions and duties of the office of Director:
Chief of Staff;General Counsel;Associate Director, Retirement and Insurance Service;Associate Director, Office of Merit Systems Oversight and Effectiveness;Associate Director, Workforce Compensation and Performance Service;Associate Director, Employment Service;Associate Director, Investigations Service;Director, Office of Executive and Management Development (Charlottesville, Virginia);Chief, Atlanta Oversight Division, Office of Merit Systems Oversight and Effectiveness; andAssistant Director for Operations, Investigations Service (Boyers, Pennsylvania).
Sec. 2. Exceptions. 
(a) No individual who is serving in an office listed in section 1 in an acting capacity, by virtue of so serving, shall act as Director pursuant to this memorandum.
(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of this memorandum, the President retains discretion, to the extent permitted by the Federal Vacancies Reform Act of 1998, 5 U.S.C. 3345 et seq., to depart from this memorandum in designating an acting Director.
GEORGE W. BUSH
  