
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

This year, as we mark the 177th anniversary of the advent of Greece's struggle for independence, we celebrate with the Hellenic Republic and recognize the close ties that have long existed between Greece and the United States. Through two centuries, our nations have enjoyed a strong and enduring friendship. For more than half a century, we have stood together in NATO, modern history's most successful alliance.
Our bonds are deeper still, however, for we are joined by blood, culture, and a profound commitment to shared values. Greek ideals of democracy and freedom inspired our Nation's founders and breathed life into America's experiment with democratic self-government. Generations of Greek Americans have enriched every aspect of our national life—in the arts, sciences, business, politics, and sports. Through hard work, love of family and community, steadfast commitment to principle, and a deep love of liberty, they have contributed greatly to the prosperity and peace we enjoy today.
The bonds between America and Greece, in fact, have never been stronger than they are today. We are partners in the effort to find a lasting, peaceful solution in the Balkans and to build an enlarged NATO that will enhance our common security. As our two nations prepare for the challenges and possibilities of the new millennium, we look forward to building on the partnership so that the seeds of democracy we have nurtured together for so long will bear fruit in a bright future not only for ourselves, but for our global community.
Now, Therefore, I, William J. Clinton, President of the United States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim March 25, 1998, as Greek Independence Day: A National Day of Celebration of Greek and American Democracy. I call upon all Americans to observe this day with appropriate ceremonies, activities, and programs.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this twelfth day of March, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-eight, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and twenty-second.

WILLIAM J. CLINTON
  