
    NH Support Continues to Grow
CONCORD, NH -- In another sign that New Hampshire support for Senator Hillary Clinton is continuing to grow, 16 New Hampshire State Representatives announced today they have decided to endorse Senator Clinton for President.
"I am thrilled to have the support of such a dynamic and diverse group of legislators who are in touch with and fighting for the concerns of families all across the state of New Hampshire," said Senator Clinton.
The following 16 state representatives have decided to support Senator Clinton: Peter H. Allen (Harrisville), Peter Cote (Nashua); John DeJoie (Concord); Carol Estes (Plymouth); Raymond Gagnon (Claremont); Doreen Howard (Newmarket); Jean Jeudy (Manchester); Steve Johnson (Manchester); Melanie Levesque (Brookline); Edgar Mears (Berlin); Michael Reuschel (Manchester); Deanna Rollo (Rollinsford); Michael Rollo (Rollinsford); Hector Velez (Manchester); Jim Splaine (Portsmouth) and Jane Wood (Laconia).
"Senator Clinton has a keen mind, she is knowledgeable and is a proven leader," said Rep. Peter H. Allen. "We really need someone in the White House who understands the needs of hard working families across this country and right here in New Hampshire. Sen. Clinton does."
This group of respected Granite State leaders, who hail from areas all across the state, includes an African American, a former Air Force officer, a chef, an ecologist, a firefighter, a Haitian American, a Latino, a Boy Scouts of America Cub Master, a small business consultant, a NH AFL-CIO leader, mothers and fathers.
The impressive list comes in addition to the recently announced endorsements made by New Hampshire House Majority Leader Mary Jane Wallner of Concord, Executive Councilor Deb Pignatelli of Nashua and North Country State Representative Martha McLeod of Franconia and State Representative Ricia McMahon of North Sutton. Clinton's list of supporters in New Hampshire also includes already announced Manchester attorney John Kacavas, former Cheshire County Commissioner Greg Martin, health care expert Steve Gorin and attorneys Michael Atkins of Nashua and Steve Tober of Portsmouth, former Manchester Alderman Bill Cashin, attorneys Chris Gallagher and Nancy Richards-Stower, former Ambassador Terry Shumaker, former state Sen. Mary Louise Hancock, Democratic National Committee members Anita Freedman and Gaetan DiGangi, former senior Kerry communications advisor Judy Reardon (Manchester), former New Hampshire Congressman Dick Swett (Bow), and former party vice chair Deb Crapo.
"Senator Clinton's campaign in New Hampshire is in full swing and hard at work," said Nick Clemons, State Director of Clinton's New Hampshire campaign.
  