
    The following listing includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the White House Press Office and not included elsewhere in this issue.
March 16
The President returned to the White House from Camp David, Md.
March 17
The President met at the White House with:
—Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs;
—Frank B. Moore, Assistant to the President for Congressional Liaison;
—Vice President Walter F. Mondale.
March 18
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Mr. Moore.
The President participated in a briefing on administration policies and programs given for members of the National Cattlemen's Association in Room 450 of the Old Executive Office Building.
The President participated in a briefing on administration policies and programs given for Members of Congress in the East Room at the White House.
The President transmitted to the Congress the 12th, 13th, and 14th annual reports of the National Endowment for the Humanities.
The President announced that he has designated two persons as members of the Board of Directors of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation. They are:
DEANE R. HINTON, Assistant Secretary of State for Economic and Business Affairs, and
LUTHER H. HODGES, JR., Deputy Secretary of Commerce.
March 19
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Mr. Moore;
—Members of Congress;
—Hedley W. Donovan, Senior Adviser to the President.
The President transmitted to the Congress the 1980 National Housing Production Report.
The White House announced that President Anwar al-Sadat of Egypt and Prime Minister Menahem Begin of Israel will meet separately with President Carter in Washington during the month of April. The dates of their visits are yet to be decided. The purpose of the meetings will be to review the progress and pace of autonomy negotiations for the West Bank and Gaza. The negotiations are being conducted in accordance with the provisions of the Camp David accords, signed by all three leaders on September 17, 1978.
The President announced the appointment of Charles F. C. Ruff as a member of the District of Columbia Law Revision Commission for a 4-year term. He replaces Earl Silbert, resigned. Ruff is U.S. Attorney for the District of Columbia.
The President announced the appointment of Gerald McBride as a member of the Committee for Purchase From the Blind and Other Severely Handicapped. McBride is Assistant Administrator for Acquisition Policy at the General Services Administration.
The President announced that he will nominate two persons to be members of the Board of Directors of the Inter-American Foundation. They are:
DAVID BRONHEIM, who has been nominated to be Associate Director of the U.S. International Development Cooperation Agency, and
WILLIAM G. BOWDLER, Assistant Secretary of State for Inter-American Affairs.
March 20
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Mr. Moore;
—William C. Verity, Jr., incoming chairman of the Chamber of Commerce of the United States;
—Representative John J. Cavanaugh of Nebraska;
—Mrs. Carter, for lunch.
March 21
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance, Secretary of Defense Harold Brown, Hamilton Jordan, Assistant to the President, Dr. Brzezinski, and Mr. Donovan;
—Mr. Moore;
—Japanese Minister of Foreign Affairs Saburo Okita;
—Representative Lester L. Wolff of New York.
The President participated in a briefing on administration programs and policies given for a group of black ministers in Room 450 of the Old Executive Office Building.
The President left the White House for a weekend stay at Camp David.
  