
    Executive Order No. 11726 of June 29, 1973, established in the Executive Office of the President an Energy Policy Office. Executive Order No. 11748 of December 4, 1973, established in the Executive Office of the President a Federal Energy Office. In order to permit an orderly transition, the Energy Policy Office was continued in being on an interim basis. That transition has been successfully completed and the Energy Policy Office should now be abolished.
Now, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me as the President of the United States of America it is hereby ordered as follows:
SECTION 1. The Energy Policy Office is hereby abolished and Executive Order No. 11726 of June 29, 1973, is hereby superseded.
SEC. 2(a). Section 8 of Proclamation No. 3279, as amended, is hereby amended to read as follows:
"Sec. 8. The Oil Policy Committee shall consist of the Administrator of the Federal Energy Office as Chairman, and the Secretaries of State, the Treasury, Defense, the Interior, Agriculture, Commerce, and Transportation, the Attorney General, the Chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers, and the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency. The President may, from time to time, designate other officials to serve as members of the Committee."
(b) The Oil Policy Committee, as reconstituted by the amendment made by subsection (a) of this section, is hereby continued.
(c) So much of the personnel, property, records, and unexpended balances of appropriations, allocations, and other funds employed, used, held, available, or to be made available in connection with the functions transferred by the amendment made by subsection (a) of this section from the Director of the Energy Policy Office, to the Administrator of the Federal Energy Office, as Chairman of the Oil Policy Committee, as the Director of the Office of Management and Budget shall determine, in conformity with section 202 (I)) of the Budget and Accounting Act of 1950 (31 U.S.C. 581c(b)), shall be transferred at such time or times as he shall direct for use in connection with the functions transferred.
(d) Executive Order No. 11743 of October 23, 1973, is hereby superseded.
SEC. 3. The Administrator of General Services shall take such steps as may be necessary to wind up the affairs of the Energy Policy Office, and unobligated funds, if any, that may remain available to defray the expenses of that Office shall be returned to the Emergency Fund of the President.
RICHARD NIXON
The White House,
March 26, 1974.
  