
    The President today announced his intention to nominate the following individuals to be members of the National Council on the Handicapped, Department of Education. He also announced his intention to designate Joseph Dusenbury to be Chairman.
Joseph Dusenbury would succeed Mary P. Chambers. He has been with the South Carolina Vocational Department since 1960 and is now a commissioner. He resides in Columbia, S.C., and was born September 27, 1924.
Robert V. Bush would succeed Elizabeth M. Boggs. He is past president of the American Orthotic/Prosthetic Association. He resides in Albuquerque, N. Mex., and was born August 9, 1920.
H. Latham Breunig would succeed J. David Webb. He was with Eli Lilly and Co. for over 40 years. He is past president of Alexander Graham Bell Association for the Deaf. He resides in Arlington, Va., and was born November 19, 1910.
Justin W. Dart, Jr., would succeed Edwin O. Opheim. From 1966 to 1981, he was involved in an independent living program involving teaching, guidance, and career planning for more than 45 disadvantaged and disabled persons. He resides in Austin, Tex., and was born September 29, 1930.
John S. Erthein would succeed Nelba R. Chavez. He is president of Erthein and Associates in Washington, D.C. He was born March 9, 1944.
Hunt Hamill would succeed Jack G. Duncan. He is president and director of the Rehabilitation Institute of Chicago and a director of McGaw Medical Center at Northwestern University. He resides in Winnetka, Ill., and was born July 15, 1917.
Marian N. Koonce would succeed Odessa Komer. She is an owner and manager of Willowbrook Ranch. She resides in Santa Barbara, Calif., and was born September 11, 1924.
Nanette Fabray MacDougall (reappointment) is an actress. She currently serves on the boards of the National Captioning Institute and the Better Hearing Institute in Washington, D.C. She is past chairman of the National Advisory Committee for Education of the Deaf. She resides in Pacific Palisades, Calif., and was born October 27, 1920.
Michael Marge would succeed Howard A. Rusk. He is currently a professor of communicative disorders and child and family studies at Syracuse University. He resides in Fayetteville, N.Y., and was born October 26, 1928.
Sandra Swift Parrino would succeed Judith E. Heumann. She is currently director for the Office of the Disabled in Ossining, N.Y. She resides in Briarcliff Manor, N.Y., and was born June 22, 1934.
Roxanne S. Vierra would succeed John P. Hourihan. She is currently a broker associate for the Devonshire Co. in Denver, Colo. She founded an organization designed to establish business ventures owned and operated by the mentally retarded. She resides in Littleton, Colo., and was born May 29, 1930.
Henry Viscardi, Jr., would succeed Thomas Joe. He is president emeritus of the Human Resources Center in Albertson, Long Island, N.Y. He has written several books on disabled persons. He resides in Kings Point, Long Island, N.Y., and was born May 10, 1912.
Alvis Kent Waldrep, Jr., would succeed Donald E. Galvin. He is founder and chief executive officer of the Kent Waldrep International Spinal Cord Research Foundation, Inc. He resides in Grand Prairie, Tex., and was born March 2, 1954.
  