
    Pool Reports by Nikki Schwab, Daily Mail 



Sent:
Reports:




March 7, 202209:40 EST

FLOTUS Pool Report No. 1 - departure
Hi there - I'll be one of your print poolers for Dr. Biden's trip to Arizona, Nevada and Kentucky.
Dr. Biden walked out of the Eisenhower Executive Office Building at 9:13 a.m. and got into her SUV. She's wearing a bright purple ensemble. Her motorcade departed the White House complex at 9:14 a.m.
The motorcade pulled up to Executive One Foxtrot at 9:36 a.m. She walked on board at 9:37 a.m. after saying hello to the greeters.
We'll be wheels up to Phoenix shortly.
I've created a new Dropbox where I'll be uploading pictures from this trip. Link here: >https://www.dropbox.com/sh/ug0gxs2akop4yh1/AAD0cUXgeboIOCcS-dJUGWjPa?dl=0<
More TK!



March 7, 202213:35 MST

FLOTUS Pool Report No. 2 - Phoenix arrival 
Executive One Foxtrot was wheels up at 9:54 a.m.
We landed at 12:50 p.m. MST at Phoenix Sky Harbor International Airport. It is sunny and 64 degrees.
Dr. Biden came to the back of the plane and spoke briefly with the pool off the record shortly after departure. Otherwise the flight was uneventful.
Dr. Biden disembarked E1F at 12:58 p.m. She walked over and hugged a greeter and chatted with people on the tarmac for several minutes.
We are rolling to Intel's Ocotillo campus as of 1 p.m.
Here are details from the East Wing about today:
Today, the First Lady departs on a three-day trip to Phoenix and Tucson, Arizona, Reno, Nevada, and Fort Campbell, Kentucky to promote the President's policy priorities, highlighted in his State of the Union address, for Building a Better America. This trip will focus on uniting Americans around issues with bipartisan support, like providing job training and ending cancer as we know it. In addition to rallying support behind the President's economic and unity agenda, the First Lady, as part of her work with the White House's Joining Forces Initiative, will travel to Fort Campbell, the home of the 101st Airborne Division, to meet with families of the soldiers deployed to Europe in support of our NATO Allies.
*An additional stop has been added to tomorrow's schedule in Tucson (3/8). More information coming shortly.*
TRAVELING WITH FLOTUS* Secretary of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Xavier Becerra, joining FLOTUS in Tucson tomorrowAngela Hanks, Acting Assistant Secretary/Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary, Employment and Training Administration, U.S. Department of LaborAnthony Bernal, Assistant to the President and Senior Advisor to the First LadyJordan Montoya Trip Director/Director of AdvanceMala Adiga, Deputy Assistant to the President and Policy Director to the First LadyMichael LaRosa, Special Assistant to the President and Press Secretary to the First LadyKelsey Donohue, Deputy Communications DirectorMarty Browne, Associate Director of AdvanceErin Scott, Photographer
This afternoon at the Phoenix Sky Harbor International Airport, the First Lady and U.S. Department of Labor Acting Assistant Secretary Angela Hanks will greet Mayor of Phoenix Kate Gallego (D) on the tarmac and then depart for Intel's Ocotillo campus.
BACKGROUND ON THE FIRST LADY'S VISIT TO INTEL AND PARTNERSHIP WITH MARICOPA COUNTY COMMUNITY COLLEGE DISTRICTIntel is an example of an American company collaborating with community colleges, like Mesa Community College (MCC), a public community college in Mesa, Arizona, and one of the ten community colleges in the Maricopa County Community College District (MCCCD), to train workers and grow the workforce by investing in new technology and manufacturing. Intel Arizona is a key partner in this effort, co-designing the curriculum, donating equipment, and supplying instructors. Intel CEO, Pat Gelsinger, was recognized by the President in his State of the Union address and was a guest of the First Lady in her viewing box.
Intel engages in the design, manufacture, and sale of computer products and technologies, including microchips. Intel designs the chips, and then makes them in its own factories, called fabrication labs (or "fabs"). To support the growing semiconductor industry's employment needs and welcome diverse talent into the technical workforce, MCCCD and semiconductor companies, including Intel, are launching a new Semiconductor Manufacturing Bootcamp program, that is funded in part by the American Rescue plan. The accelerated two-week program prepares students for a career as a semiconductor technician with hands-on learning from industry experienced employees as instructors. Students will enroll in a series of ten four-hour classes with options for day or evening trainings. Upon successfully completing the bootcamp, students will earn an industry recognized certification and 3 hours of college credit that builds a pathway towards a degree.
The semiconductor bootcamp will introduce semiconductor manufacturing concepts, processes, and hands-on application. The program will be offered first at Mesa Community College in May 2022 before expanding to Chandler-Gilbert Community College and Estrella Mountain Community College (all part of MCCCD) in the summer of 2022.
President Biden signed the American Rescue Plan (ARP) into law on March 11, 2021. One year later, the ARP has powered the strongest economic recovery in memory and is laying the groundwork for transformational investments in our communities. The First Lady's travel to Arizona and Nevada will provide her with an opportunity to lift up one of President Biden's signature achievements and point to the on-the-ground impacts that ARP funds are having in communities like Phoenix, Mesa, and Chandler, Arizona.
WHAT THE FIRST LADY WILL DO AT INTELUpon arrival at Intel, she will greet with greet with the following individuals:

Mayor Kevin Hartke, City of Chandler
Mayor John Giles, City of Mesa
Keyvan Esfarjani, Executive Vice President, Chief Global Operations Officer, Intel
Bruce Andrews, Corporate Vice President, Chief Government Affairs Officer, Intel

The First Lady will be led on a tour of Intel's Ocotillo campus, which will consist of two tour stops.
STOP 1: She will receive a short overview from Keyvan Esfarjani on Intel, its expansion plans, and its associated growing workforce needs. Then she will receive an overview from Factory Manager Jim Evers, Mesa Community College Associate Dean Leah Palmer, and MCCCD Chancellor Dr. Steven Gonzalez on an upcoming semiconductor bootcamp that is funded in part by the American Rescue plan. The semiconductor bootcamp prepares students for technician jobs.
STOP 2: After the briefing, the First Lady will proceed to a virtual tour of the fabrication lab. She will receive a short overview of the fabrication lab that they will tour, called "Fab 42," from Factory Manager Zivit Katz-Tsameret. Fab 42 is one of the most advanced manufacturing plants in the world. It is one of four operational manufacturing factories at the Ocotillo campus. Intel Technician and U.S. Navy veteran Michelle Blackwell, who will be displayed on a screen, will physically be at Fab 42 and lead a live tour of the facility. As part of the tour, Michelle will describe how chips are made and the job of a lab technician.
After the tour, the First Lady, Acting Assistant Secretary Angela Hanks, and Ms. Michelle Blackwell will then proceed to a conference room for remarks. There will be approximately 40 audience members, which will include Intel workers and members of the Maricopa County Community College District community.
After the First Lady's visit to Intel, she will depart and attend a DNC Finance Event in Chandler, Arizona.
Following the DNC event, the First Lady will depart Phoenix for Tucson, where she will spend the night before a series of events there tomorrow.



March 7, 202214:33 MST

FLOTUS Pool Report No. 3 - Intel tour 
Dr. Biden's motorcade arrived at Intel at 1:26 p.m. Dr. Biden said hello to the greeters outside a curved glass building.
She also turned around and said "hello" to the pool before continuing the conservation.
Dr. Biden walked into the first staging area of the tour at 1:33 p.m. We're in a small room that is decorated with advertisements for both Mesa and Maricopa community colleges. She's now wearing a cream mask with purple flowers on it.
Giving introductory remarks was Intel’sKeyvan Esfarjani.
Then Jim Evers talked about the Mesa Community College two-week semiconductor program.
"Somebody can actually take vacation time to get this training and change their lives," Mesa's Leah Palmer said, explaining why the program was expedited.
"I think the priority for Intel is to get more women technicians," she also said.
"I heard!" Dr. Biden said.
Press was pulled from the first stop at 1:43 p.m.
Dr. Biden followed us into the second stop at 1:45 p.m.
She's speaking to several Intel workers virtually on a screen named Heather and Michelle. Both women are wearing all white PPE and headphones.
Dr. Biden also modeled some microchips for the pool.
"Thank you, thank you," Dr. Biden said upon hearing that Michelle was a Navy veteran.
Michelle then explained how they make "wafers" that include thousands of microchips.
Heather is a community college grad.
"That must be great for you to hear," Dr. Biden remarked as Heather talked up her job, motioning to the community college representatives on the tour.
"What kind of hours do you work?" Biden then asked, learning that they worked 12-hour shifts.
She then asked about salary. Michelle and Heather said it was based on experience while Keyvan said it started at $60K, but could go upwards of $120-150K.
"Heck I think I should just quit my job," Biden joked.
She also asked about female workers.
"I love the sisterhood," Biden said.
Pool was pulled at 1:58 p.m.
We're now awaiting her official remarks.



March 7, 202214:38 MST

FLOTUS Pool Report No. 4 - Intel remarks 
A conference room has been set up for the first lady's remarks. The podium is using the new slogan "Building a Better America," which has replaced "Build Back Better." There's also more signage for Maricopa and Mesa community colleges.
There are about 30-40 people in the audience.
Some of the Intel employees are wearing Intel-branded face masks.
Dr. Biden entered at 2:11 p.m.
Intel's Michelle Blackwell, who is introducing the first lady said she was a Navy veteran as well.
Biden started speaking at 2:17 p.m.
She gave Blackwell a hug as she took over the podium.
Dr. Biden asked the audience to "take two seconds to all say our silent prayers for the people of Ukraine who are struggling."
"The president and I, our hearts are with the people of Ukraine and I think all Americans feel that as well," she added.
Dr. Biden then started her official program.
"I'm on my spring break. So this is what teachers do on their spring break," she said.
She talked about how one of her community college students asked what she was doing "during the vacation."
"Oh I'm going to be working on my other job," she said she told the student – who she said took a minute to realize what she meant.
She then gave what could be considered a stump speech – defending President Joe Biden's time in office and taking a jab at former President Donald Trump.
She recalled Inauguration Day:
"It felt like Americans across the country were holding their breath in the aftermath of four years of chaos," Dr. Biden said.
Other key quotes:
"So what does Building a Better America mean?"
"It means getting rid of the barriers that have kept women out of careers in engineering and manufacturing and other STEM fields we just talked about."
She touted the Intel semiconductor program:
"And the first class of this program is going to be all women."
"It's what Joe said last week – the state of the union is strong because the American people are strong."
"We're going to make sure you can afford childcare," she also said – which had been a provision in the Build Back Better bill that got stuck in the Senate.
"I hope you saw the jobs numbers last week and how great they were."
"And you were right to put your faith in Joe Biden a year ago. Because in the face of uncertainty he is unshakable."
She wrapped her remarks at 2:26 p.m. and entered her black SUV at 2:30 p.m.
We're rolling to the DNC fundraiser – more TK



March 7, 202215:02 MST

FLOTUS Pool Report No. 5 - DNC fundraiser arrival/full Intel quotes 
The motorcade arrived at the Gila River Indian Community Fundraiser in Chandler, Arizona at 2:42 p.m. The fundraiser is in a large, modernist red clay colored building.
Pool will be present for the remarks portion of the DNC fundraiser. We're currently in a hold.
And from the East Wing – excerpts from the remarks Dr. Biden delivered at Intel:
On a cold winter morning a little over a year ago, I held our family bible and watched my husband take the oath of office.
In that moment, he was the man I fell in love with so many years ago—a father of two boys standing in the wreckage of unthinkable loss, who stitched a broken family back together with grit and grace.
He was the man who took the train home to Delaware every night, because he knew that showing up for the smallest moments can sometimes mean the most.
He was the Senator who learned to get up when he got knocked down and fight even harder for what's right—the Vice President whose steadfast counsel helped guide our country through many storms.
That day, he was Joe—and then, suddenly, he became something else, too: The President of the United States.
It felt like Americans across the country were holding their breath in the aftermath of four years of chaos.
But as Joe stood there—shoulders back, eyes shining with fierce optimism—I could see his determination to bring us together to lead us forward and build a better America. And every day since, he has worked to do just that.
Millions of families have been able to send their children back to school and find jobs…and catch up on bills. They've been able to finally take a breath.
We still have a long way to go. Our world faces incredible challenges. But we've come so far. And we're just getting started.
So what does "building a better America" mean? What does it look like for families like yours?
It means investing in industries of the future, like we see here today—the kind of jobs that make our supply chain stronger, lowering prices and keeping our country safe.
It means working families have the opportunity to train for great jobs, no matter who they are or where they live, so that they can build a good career.
It means getting rid of the barriers that have kept women out of careers in engineering and manufacturing and other STEM fields—so that they can have the same earning opportunities as their peers.
That's what the American Rescue Plan has made possible here in Arizona.
Today, we heard about an incredible semiconductor manufacturing bootcamp at Mesa Community College, funded in part by the ARP.
It's going to allow students to start a career in a growing sector that's critical to our economy—and the first class is going to be all women. Isn't that amazing?
These investments are changing lives. And every person who benefits from this program and others like it—who is better off today than they were a year ago—passes that benefit along.
When we invest in you, you invest in your family, in your neighborhoods, in local businesses, in your cities and states.
It's what Joe said last week: The state of our Union is strong because the American people are strong. And building a better America starts with you.
That's why we're going to keep investing in community college partnerships and workforce development. We're going to make sure you can afford child care so you can pursue your education and career. We're going to create jobs—even more than we already have.
You were right to put your faith in Joe Biden a year ago.
Because in the face of uncertainty, he is unshakeable. Despite deep divides—at home and abroad—he knows how to bring people together and get things done. He never loses sight of what this is all about: the people he serves.
When he goes to bed at night and when he wakes up in the morning, he thinks about how to make life better for you and your family.
It's just who he is. It's who he's always been.
He's going to lead us forward to a better America—and it starts here. It starts now. And most of all, it starts with you.
Thank you.



March 7, 202216:41 MST

FLOTUS Pool Report No. 6 - DNC fundraiser remarks/rolling to airport 
Pool was pulled into the DNC fundraiser where about 40 people are standing around circular black high-top tables decorated with floral arrangements. The room is white and modernist with a stone floor. There is Native American art hung on the walls. Acoustic music is being played.
Dr. Biden walked into the room at 3:07 p.m.
The tribal historic preservation officer began with an opening prayer, holding up a set of brown and white feathers and speaking in a Native language.
Stephen Roe Lewis, the governor of the Gila River Indian Community, served as the master of ceremonies. He asked those to observe a moment of silence for the people of Ukraine.
"Dr. Jill Biden, we know this is not an easy time to be in the White House, to lead."
Lewis talked about how the Gila River Indian Community members were "water protectors."
Dr. Biden then began – saying she enjoyed the prayer.
"I want to thank you for that beautiful prayer. I didn't know what it said," she said to laughs. "But it was a beautiful prayer."
"So I have a formal speech, but I kind of feel like – I don't know. We're among friends, right? So I'm not going to stand behind that podium," she said walking closer to the crowd, but staying several feet away pointing out that she wasn't wearing a mask. "I want to speak to you as friends," she repeated.
"And I think the one thing we all have on our hearts, like the governor said, is the people of Ukraine," she said.
"I want you to know that he is working tirelessly to bring people together, to bring the NATO countries together, so that they can stand up against Putin," she said.
She noted how the U.S. has sent billions in aid to Ukraine.
"And we continue to stand with and support the Ukrainians while they're fighting for their freedom," she said. "I mean, don't you admire them? How hard they fight."
She said the U.S. was going to provide economic, humanitarian and security assistance.
"It just breaks my heart," Biden also said, speaking about the visuals of mothers trying to get their children to safety.
"I think the whole world, their hearts are going out to the Ukrainian people and we have to hold them accountable for this horrible, horrible war that he's really trying to drag the rest of the world into," she said of Putin/Russia.
"I think Joe is the right person for this moment in history," she said to loud applause.
"And one of the reasons you probably all voted for him was his strength, his character – he's unwavering. And look at his years of experience.He was in his 30s when he went to then the Soviet Union," she continued.
"He has personal relationships with all the leaders in the NATO countries," she said.
"So he is talking to them non-stop. And trying to make sure that they hold strong against Putin,"
The audience applauded when Biden mentioned passage of both the American Rescue Plan and the bipartisan infrastructure law.
She also spoke about the dire prospects Democrats are being told they have in the midterm races:
"They're trying to paint this gloomy picture, but that's not who we are," she said.
"So we are going to win the midterm elections. But we can only do it with your support and your help. And we appreciate that you are standing behind us."
She concluded official remarks at 3:23 p.m.
Pool held outside while she mingled with the crowd.
We're rolling at 3:40 p.m.



March 7, 202216:31 MST

FLOTUS Pool Report No. 7 - Phoenix airport arrival 
Dr. Biden's motorcade arrived at the Phoenix airport at 4:02 p.m. She was greeting members of the police force who accompanied the motorcade as pool was boarding.
We'll be wheels up to Tucson shortly.



March 7, 202218:28 MST

FLOTUS Pool Report No. 8 - Tucson arrival/lid 
Executive One Foxtrot was wheels up at 4:21 p.m.
We landed at Tucson International Airport at 4:54 p.m.
Dr. Biden disembarked E1F at 5:05 p.m. and at 5:08 p.m. we were rolling.
The motorcade passed a massive American flag.
And some very impressive cacti.
Several people standing outside a hotdog food truck pulled out their phones when the motorcade went by.
We pulled into the RON at 5:53 p.m.
We have a lid.




  