
    Columbia, SC - Today, the Warren for President Campaign announced key hires for her South Carolina state staff. The new team members include a State Director, Organizing Director and Communications Director with significant campaign experience in South Carolina and throughout the Southeast. The announcement marks the first phase of a larger effort by Warren and her team to build a robust South Carolina infrastructure ahead of the early state primary next February.
State Director: Alycia AlbergottieAlycia Albergottie is a native of Columbia, SC and grew up at Bethel African Methodist Episcopal (AME) Church. She is a proud graduate of the Allen University and a member of the Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority, Inc. Albergottie is a veteran campaign staffer and the Warren for President campaign marks her third national campaign position within South Carolina. Her campaign experience includes national, statewide, regional and city-wide races. She worked on the 2012 Obama campaign and was the State Director for the 2016 Hillary Campaign in South Carolina. Albergottie is the former Richland County Democratic Party (RCDP) Chair and served as a 2016 SC Delegate to the Democratic National Convention (DNC).
State Organizing Director: Ebenezer AbolarinEbenezer Abolarin is a native of Mableton, Georgia. He is a proud graduate of the University of West Georgia with a degree in Political Science. Abolarin is a southern states field expert with experience working in Georgia, Alabama, Mississippi and Florida. Most recently, Abolarin served as the Statewide Field Director for the Walt Maddox Gubernatorial campaign in Alabama in 2018. Also in Alabama, he worked as a Regional Field Director for Doug Jones's successful 2017 U.S. Senate campaign, and as Randall Woodfin's GOTV Director implementing a program that led to his landslide victory in the Birmingham Mayoral Race over a favored incumbent. In addition to his campaign work, Abolarin held positions in the Georgia House Democratic Caucus, worked with the 2016 coordinated campaign lead by house minority leader Stacey Abrams, and as Chief of Staff for Georgia State Representative David Wilkerson.
State Communications Director: Sam ColemanSam Coleman is a native of the Commonwealth of Virginia, and is a proud graduate of Virginia Commonwealth University. He has more than five years of experience working in communications for campaigns and elected officials. Before joining Warren for President, Mr. Coleman held positions on campaigns in Florida, Philadelphia, Alabama, New Mexico and Mississippi. Additionally, he served as Press Secretary for Senator Doug Jones of Alabama, and as Assistant Communications Director for Governor Terry McAuliffe in Virginia.
  