
    Today, President Donald J. Trump welcomed Iraqi Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi to the Oval Office to reaffirm America's support for Iraq and the Iraqi people in our shared fight against the terrorist group ISIS/Da'esh. The United States and Iraq stand fully committed to a comprehensive partnership, rooted in mutual respect and grounded in the United States-Iraq Strategic Framework Agreement, which provides a framework for political, economic, cultural, and security cooperation. President Trump was particularly honored that Prime Minister al-Abadi was one of the first foreign leaders he has hosted at the White House, a testament to the close bonds between the American and Iraqi people and the importance of the relationship between our governments.
In today's meeting, President Trump and Prime Minister al-Abadi praised the unprecedented cooperation between the militaries of the United States and Iraq in the fight against ISIS/Da'esh, including the campaign to liberate west Mosul. Although ISIS/Da'esh remains a dangerous enemy, we are confident it will be defeated. As Iraqi forces consolidate gains against ISIS/Da'esh, the two leaders agreed that the United States and Iraq will pursue a long-term partnership to decisively root out terrorism from Iraq and strengthen the Iraqi military and other key institutions. Together with our partners in the 68-member Global Coalition against ISIS/Da'esh, the United States will continue training and support for Iraqi forces to bring about the terrorist group's decisive and enduring defeat and further build the capabilities of Iraqi forces. This security partnership is a vital component of the national security of both the United States and Iraq.
Recognizing that terrorism cannot be defeated by military might alone, the two leaders also agreed to promote a broad-based political and economic partnership based in the Strategic Framework Agreement. In the months ahead, United States and Iraqi leaders will consult on steps to deepen commercial ties and promote investment, expand collaboration in the energy sector, and seek new opportunities for cultural and educational cooperation. As we seek to advance common interests and promote prosperity, the United States commends Prime Minister al-Abadi's vision for building a prosperous and diversified economy in Iraq, capable of fulfilling the needs and aspirations of the Iraqi people. The United States strongly supports Iraq's partnership with the International Monetary Fund and, in concert with our G-7 partners, will continue to help Iraq stabilize Iraq's economy and achieve needed reforms. The United States also welcomes the Prime Minister's efforts to foster more inclusive and accountable governance in Iraq and to address the human suffering in the country created by the brutality of ISIS/Da'esh.
President Trump and Prime Minister al-Abadi agreed that it is essential that Iraq develop and maintain positive relations with regional partners, both to enhance stability in the Middle East and to help Iraq begin to rebuild from the ravages of the brutal occupation of ISIS/Da'esh. The President commended Prime Minister al-Abadi on Iraq's efforts to foster more constructive ties with countries in the region, which have a vital role in helping Iraq become a force for stability in the Middle East. As the United States and Iraq stand together against terrorism in all its forms, we will not tolerate efforts by any country to destabilize Iraq or undermine Iraq's democratic institutions.
The United States and Iraq remain unified in our commitment to a comprehensive and mutually beneficial partnership in the years ahead.
  