
    The following listing includes the President's daily schedule and other items of general interest as announced by the White House Press Office during the period covered by this issue. Events and announcements printed elsewhere in the issue are not included.
March 20
The President returned to the White House after a weekend stay at St. Simons Island, Ga.
March 21
The President met at the White House with:
—Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs;
—Frank B. Moore, Assistant to the
President for Congressional Liaison;
—the Democratic congressional leadership;
—Vice President Walter F. Mondale;
—Mayors Lee A. Alexander of Syracuse, N.Y., Henry W. Maier of Milwaukee, Wis., and Richard G. Hatcher of Gary, Ind., members of the Democratic Mayors Conference;
—Secretary of Agriculture Bob Bergland.
President and Mrs. Carter hosted a dinner for Israeli Prime Minister Menahem Begin and his wife in the Residence.
March 22
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Mr. Moore;
—Frank C. Carlucci, Deputy Director of Central Intelligence, Hamilton Jordan, Assistant to the President, and Dr. Brzezinski;
—Alejandro Orfila, Secretary General of the Organization of American States;
—members of the House International Relations Committee.
The President transmitted to the Congress the annual report of the National Advisory Council on Adult Education for Fiscal Year 1977.
March 23
The President met at the White House with:
—members of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee;
—Secretary of Defense Harold Brown;
—Dr. Brzezinski.
At the invitation of President Carter, President Nicolae Ceausescu of Romania will pay a state visit to Washington April 12-14.
March 24
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Vice President Mondale, Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance, Dr. Brzezinski, and Mr. Jordan; —Mrs. Carter, for lunch.
The President declared a major disaster for the State of Nebraska as a result of severe storms, ice jams, snowmelt, and flooding, beginning about March 13, which caused extensive public and private property damage.
The President left the White House for a weekend stay at Camp David, Md.
  