
    Pool Reports by Emily Goodin, Daily Mail 



Sent:
Reports:




March 14, 202311:04 PDT

WH travel pool #1 - departing RON
Good morning from San Diego, where it is 61 degrees and cloudy.
Motorcade departed the RON at 11:03 am.
Pool did not see POTUS load into the Beast.
Destination is the North Island Naval Air Station for the flight to Los Angeles.
More tk...



March 14, 202311:38 PDT

WH travel pool #2 - airport arrival
Motorcade arrived at North Island Naval Air Station at 11:35 am.
There is a viewing pen wirh military members. POTUS is talking to them, working the line. "I want to say thank you," POTUS said.
More tk...
From WH:
Traveling with the President via motorcade en route to North Island Naval Air Station:
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of StaffAnnie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office OperationsVinay Reddy, Assistant to the President & Director of SpeechwritingKarine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press SecretaryEmmy Ruiz, Assistant to the President & Director of Political Strategy & OutreachBen LaBolt, Assistant to the President & Director of CommunicationsCurtis Ried, Deputy Assistant to the President & National Security Council Chief of Staff & Executive SecretaryTravis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director



March 14, 202311:50 PDT

WH travel pool #3 - departure
POTUS talked to military members for about eight minutes. Pool couldn't hear what he said. He also posed for some pictures with the service members.
He then walked across the tarmac and boarded AF1 at 11:47 am.
No opportunity for pool to shout questions as pool was held at a distance for his walk.
Next stop is Los Angeles International Airport. Flight time is about 40 minutes.
Air Force One is wheels up shortly.



March 14, 202312:43 PDT

WH travel pool #4 - Los Angeles arrival
Air Force One was wheels up San Diego at 11:56 am and wheels down at Los Angles International Airport at 12:28 pm.
It is 59 degrees, windy, and raining.
POTUS disembarked at 12:36 pm off the lower stairs. He's now wearing an overcoat and baseball hat with the presidential seal. Natalie Biden disembarked behind him.
He spoke to the greeters, who has umbrellas. They did a group photo.
At 12:42 pm the motorcade is rolling to The Boys & Girls Club of West San Gabriel Valley, Monterey Park.
Drive time is about 40 minutes.
From the WH:
Greeting the President upon arrival at Los Angeles International Airport:
Mayor Karen Bass, Los Angeles, CaliforniaChairwoman Janice Hahn, Los Angeles County Board of SupervisorsBrandon Tsay, hero who disarmed the Monterey Park mass shooter at his family's dance studio
Traveling with the President aboard Air Force One en route to Los Angeles International Airport:
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of StaffAnnie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office OperationsVinay Reddy, Assistant to the President & Director of SpeechwritingKarine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press SecretaryEmmy Ruiz, Assistant to the President & Director of Political Strategy & OutreachBen LaBolt, Assistant to the President & Director of CommunicationsCurtis Ried, Deputy Assistant to the President & National Security Council Chief of Staff & Executive SecretaryTravis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director



March 14, 202313:31 PDT

WH travel pool #5 - event arrival
Motorcade arrived at the Boys & Girls Club of West San Gabriel Valley, Monterey Park, at 1:28 pm after a very rainy drive.
There was a group of protesters near the site shouting "Let's go Brandon" and one held a sign that read "FJB."
Pool didn't see POTUS enter the venue.
More tk...



March 14, 202313:37 PDT

WH travel pool #6 - 2 minute warning
POTUS is speaking in 2 minutes
Airing on WH live: https://www.whitehouse.gov/live/



March 14, 202314:13 PDT

WH travel pool #7 - POTUS meeting with families
The president spoke for about 20 minutes.
POTUS spoke on a stage with eight American flags behind him. The small auditorium was packed.
POTUS worked the rope line after his remarks. Pool now holding while POTUS meets with first responders and families.
From the WH:
In attendance for the President's remarks on his efforts to reduce gun violence at the Boys & Girls Club of West San Gabriel Valley, Monterey Park, California:
Families affected by the Monterey Park Dance Studio shooting, activists, and community leaders.
Pre-ProgramRep. Judy Chu (CA-28)Supervisor Hilda Solis, Los Angeles County (First District)Senator Alex Padilla (CA)
Speaking ProgramThe President
Apologies for any delays in pool reports. Cell service and Wi-Fi is spotty.



March 14, 202314:27 PDT

WH travel pool #7A - crowd count
The crowd count for POTUS speech was approximately 200, per official.
Note – pool was told hold time would be about two hours here at the Boys & Girls Club.
From the WH:
The President is greeting with local first responders.



March 14, 202314:30 PDT

WH travel pool #7B - photo line
From the White House:
Participating in a photoline with the President at the Monterey Park Bruggemeyer Library, in Monterey Park, California:
Senator Alex Padilla (CA)Mayor Jose Sanchez, Monterey Park, CaliforniaCalifornia Attorney General Rob BontaState Senator Susan Rubio (District 22)State Assemblymember Mike Fong (District 49)Supervisor Hilda Solis, Los Angeles CountyKevin McGowan, Director of Los Angeles County Office of Emergency ManagementMayor Adele Andrade-Stadler, Alhambra, CaliforniaCouncil Member and Former Mayor Sasha Renee Perez, Alhambra, CaliforniaCouncilmember and Former Mayor Henry Lo, Monterey Park, CaliforniaCouncil Member Thomas Wong, Monterey Park, CaliforniaCouncil Member Vinh Ngo, Monterey Park City, CaliforniaCouncil Member Yvonne Yiu, Monterey Park, CaliforniaCity Treasurer Amy Lee, Monterey Park City, CaliforniaCity Clerk Maychelle Yee, Monterey Park, CaliforniaCity Manager Ron Bow, Monterey Park, CaliforniaCouncilmember Jeff Maloney, Alhambra, CaliforniaCouncilmember Katherine Lee, Alhambra, CaliforniaCouncilmember Ross Maza, Alhambra, California



March 14, 202314:38 PDT

WH travel pool #7C - POTUS greeting families
From the White House:
The President is greeting the families affected by the Monterey Park Dance Studio Shooting.



March 14, 202316:30 PDT

WH travel pool #8 - heading back to airport
Motorcade is rolling back to airport at 4:29 pm.
Pool did not lay eyes on POTUS.
Drive time is about 40 minutes. It's still raining.



March 14, 202317:28 PDT

WH travel pool #9 - airport arrival and departure
Motorcade arrived at Los Angeles International Airport at 5:21 pm.
POTUS boarded via lower stairs at 5:24 pm. It is 57 degrees, windy and pouring rain.
Ride was uneventful but motorcade moved slowly at several parts in the heavy rain.
As the motorcade departed the area where POTUS gave his speech, lining the streets, were a lot of people filming on their phones and waving. One person waved a "f*** Biden" sign.
Next stop: Las Vegas
Flight time: about one hour and five minutes
AF1 is wheels up shortly.



March 14, 202318:31 PDT

WH travel pool #10 - Las Vegas arrival
Air Force One was wheels up from Los Angeles International Airport at 5:31 pm. And was wheels down at Harry Reid International Airport at 6:13 pm.
POTUS disembarked at 6:26 pm with Natalie Biden behind him. POTUS introduced her to the greeters. The group chatted for a few minutes.
POTUS did not respond to shouted questions.
Flight was short but hit a lot of turbulence toward the end as AF1 descended. TVs lost their signal for a few minutes.
Motorcade is rolling to the fundraiser at 6:31 pm.
Drive time about 30 minutes.
From the WH:
Greeting the President upon arrival Harry Reid International Airport:
Mayor Carolyn Goodman, Las Vegas, NevadaRep. Dina Titus (NV-01)Commission Chairman Jim Gibson, Clark County, Nevada
Traveling with the President aboard Air Force One en route to Las Vegas, Nevada:
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of StaffAnnie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office OperationsVinay Reddy, Assistant to the President & Director of SpeechwritingKarine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press SecretaryEmmy Ruiz, Assistant to the President & Director of Political Strategy & OutreachBen LaBolt, Assistant to the President & Director of CommunicationsCurtis Ried, Deputy Assistant to the President & National Security Council Chief of Staff & Executive SecretaryTravis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director



March 14, 202319:03 PDT

WH travel pool #11 - fundraiser arrival
Motorcade arrived at fundraising site at 6:58 pm.
The fundraiser is in Tournament Hills, which is described as one of the Las Vegas area's most exclusive communities with custom built luxury homes.
The home is worth $3.2 million per Redfin and is 8,500 square feet with five bedrooms.
Motorcade passed a couple of protesters outside the airport, holding signs that said "Trump won" and "Nevada is MAGA country"
On the drive, several well-known Vegas hotels were visible from the highway, including the Bellagio, Caesar's Palace, and Trump International.
Fundraiser details:
Background from DNC Official: On Tuesday, President Biden will hold a fundraising event in Las Vegas, Nevada, which will have approximately 65 attendees, and raise over $1 million for the Democratic National Committee and the Democratic Grassroots Victory Fund.



March 14, 202320:26 PDT

WH travel pool #12 - fundraiser remarks
Pool was brought into the fundraiser at 7:21 pm. POTUS starting speaking at 7:31 pm and wrapped at 7:59 pm.
Jess Molasky, who opened the fundraiser, thanked his mom Christy for letting them use her home for the fundraiser. Molasky noted today was his birthday and he wanted "to try to do something good for our country. So I'm turning 29. Well, when I think about the future, there's a lot of challenges ahead. That's really why we're here today to talk about the future of our country."
He introduced POTUS, who told him: "I'm only here because it's your birthday."
In his remarks, POTUS acknowledged the difficulties in the country: "Inflation is still a problem but it's down 30% since the summer .... And you know, everything from NATO and Ukraine has been a real push. It's cost a lot of money and it's also it was the right thing to do. I think we didn't have a choice. Never, ever we have 185,000 people invade another country in Europe since World War Two."
He also listed his administration's accomplishments: "We ended up creating 12 million brand new jobs more than any president has created for years." He also talked about passing the infrastructure bill and the Inflation Reduction Act.
He talked about climate change: "No joke. This is serious stuff. It's a single most dire consequence. If we don't keep it below 1.5 degrees Celsius, not go above that, we're going to damn our children to circumstances where we are the only, truly existential threat of nuclear war."
He repeated his line about how it's not your father's Republican Party and said they're "telling me that unless I vote the way they want, I go along with their budget, they're not going to, in fact, pay our debts. We're going to, for the first time in American history, renege on the federal debt."
More: "We've never failed to pay it and the interest is accumulated on it and we continue to pay it. If we've ever going to renege on it, we're going to see a national economic crisis not only here but worldwide."
He talked about prescription drug prices and how his administration has lowered the cost of insulin.
He said MAGA Republicans have tried 50 times to repeal Obamacare.
POTUS: "Extreme Republicans make up to about 40% of the House Republican caucus of the party."
He repeated his story, and how he wouldn't say who the lawmakers are: "The eight senior Republicans who were still in the United States Senate who have come to me over the last 10 months and tell me they agree with me but if they vote me what will happen is they will lose their primay. They will be out of office."
More on Republicans: "They want to cut. They want to cut. They don't want to do anything about Trump's tax cut that was $2 trillion that did not do very much but create a gigantic deficit. More deficit was created under Donald Trump in four years that increased the overall national debt by 22%."
He repeated his story about Rep. Majorie Taylor Greene calling him a "liar" at the State of the Union.
More: "We have a choice in this election unrelated to me but between the Democrats and Republicans and what they stand for and what they're about in terms of what they want to get done."
POTUS on Speaker McCarthy: "I met with the Speaker of the House. He's not a bad guy. He's a decent guy. And he sat with me and said what are we going to do? Said I'll tell you what - I'll my submit my budget in detail on the ninth of March, you submit yours and we'll negotiate."
More: "I haven't even talked about foreign policy time off of it, but bottom line is, these guys are talking about not fund8ing so many pieces of our foreign policy."
He repeated his story about going to the G7 meeting in England and how he said America is back. He said: "Macron looked at me and said for how long?" He added the German chancellor said to him: "For how long can you keep what you're doing?"
He noted he was watching TV on AF1 on the flight to Vegas: "And now you're turning on the television today and I got here on Air Force One. I'm watching and you got Western Oregon deciding they're going to secede and become part of Idaho. What in the hell is going on? (Laughter) Idaho's a beautiful state but no I'm serious. They've actually moved hard. They've passed resolutions in the state to do that."'
Note from pool: The Oregon story played on CNN, which was on in the press cabin during the flight, and it is Eastern Oregon that voted to secede.
At 8:11 pm motorcade was rolling to the RON.
As always please double check POTUS against transcript.
From the WH:
The President is participating in a reception for the Democratic National Committee in Las Vegas, Nevada.
Speaking ProgramJess Molasky, IntroducerThe President
Participating in a photoline with the President at a reception for the Democratic National Committee in Las Vegas, Nevada:
Rep. Steven Horsford (NV-04)Rep. Dina Titus (NV-01)



March 14, 202320:36 PDT

WH travel pool #13 - arrival at RON and lid
Motorcade arrived at the RON at 8:34 pm.
At 8:35 pm we have a travel photo lid.
More tomorrow!




  