
    President's Health
Q. How's your cold?
The President. It's okay. Like I said, Hillary had a cough and then Chelsea was sick and I sort of got it. It'll be gone in a day or two. It's just a head cold, it's not any big deal— just from the neck up.
Q. Does it bother your ears?
The President. No.
Air Force One
Q. You know—[inaudible]—is a certified pilot of this aircraft.
The President. Right. Well, he was up there on takeoff. I don't know if he lifted us off or not.
King Hussein. I watched and was very impressed by the wonderful, professional team up there.
Middle East Peace Process
Q. What are you guys going to talk about?
The President. A lot of—[inaudible].
Q. Any surprises coming out of this summit, Mr. President? What do you expect?
The President. I don't know. I think a very strong statement will come out of it and that we may have some pretty good ideas come out of it for what we can all do together. I hope so. But I thank His Majesty for standing up for the right thing in the Middle East and helping to get so many other countries involved in this. He's got quite a remarkable array of people actually coming together on short notice.
Q. What would make the meeting a success?
The President. Well, I think a strong united stand for keeping the peace process going and standing against the terror as a precondition of that, because unless people are secure they can't go forward. I think that's the most important thing. And then, obviously, we want to come out with some more concrete steps. We've taken some already; we intend to take some more.
Q. Anything on Iran?
The President. Well, wait a minute, we've got to have the meeting. We haven't had the meeting yet.
Q. What about Syria? What about the lack of Syrians present?
The President. Well, I wish they were there, the Syrians. I wish they were there. But I believe that in terms of continuing the peace process and keeping commitments, that President Asad will do that. And that's very important, very important.
I hope you all get some sleep.
Q. You, too.
The President. It's 10 minutes after 10 Egyptian time—[laughter]—so watch a movie and go to bed. It's real important. You're going to have a hard day tomorrow.
  