
    By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Act of October 19, 1965, entitled "An Act to render immune from seizure under judicial process certain objects of cultural significance imported into the United States for temporary display or exhibition, and for other purposes" (79 Stat. 985, 22 U.S.C. 2459), and as President of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered as follows:
SECTION 1. The Director of the International Communication Agency is designated and empowered to perform the functions conferred upon the President by the above-mentioned Act and shall be deemed to be authorized, without the approval, ratification, or other action of the President, (1) to determine that any work of art or other object to be imported into the United States within the meaning of the Act is of cultural significance, (2) to determine that the temporary exhibition or display of any such work of art or other object in the United States is in the national interest, and (3) to cause public notices of the redeterminations referred to above to be published in the FEDERAL REGISTER.
SEC. 2. The Director of the International Communication Agency, in carrying out this Order, shall consult with the Secretary of State with respect to the determination of national interest, and may consult with the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, the Director of the National Gallery of Art, and with such other officers and agencies of the Government as may be appropriate, with respect to the determination of cultural significance.
SEC. 3. The Director of the International Communication Agency is authorized to delegate within the Agency the functions conferred upon him by this Order.
SEC. 4. Executive Order No. 11312 of October 14, 1966 is revoked.
SEC. 5. Any order, regulation, determination or other action which was in effect pursuant to the provisions of Executive Order No. 11312 shall remain in effect until changed pursuant to the authority provided in this Order.
SEC. 6. This Order shall be effective on April 1, 1978.
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
March 27, 1978.
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 1:13 p.m., March 28, 1978]
  