
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

Vision is a remarkable gift. Our eyes allow us to read, to see the faces of our loved ones, and to experience many of life's greatest pleasures. Too often, we take our sight for granted and must be reminded that our eyes require regular care and attention. The more we learn about preventing eye disease and vision loss, the better equipped we will be to take care of these vital organs.
Many young people suffer from vision-related learning disabilities that jeopardize their academic success. However, with early intervention, such sight problems are often easily correctable. Senior citizens, too, are particularly vulnerable to eye difficulties, but we are fortunate that advances in medical research are improving our understanding of the diseases that often rob older Americans of their sight.
As a result of these new technologies and discoveries in the field of eye care, many diseases that would have caused permanent sight loss just decades ago can now be treated with excellent prospects for full recovery. For example, people with diabetes can reduce their risk of blindness with timely laser surgery, the effects of glaucoma can often be prevented, and studies are exploring the role of vitamins and minerals in slowing the progression of age-related macular degeneration and cataract.
To educate people about these strides and to encourage all Americans to protect their precious eyesight, the Congress, by joint resolution approved December 30, 1963 (77 Stat. 629; 36 U.S.C. 169a), has authorized and requested the President to proclaim the first week in March of each year as "Save Your Vision Week."
Now, Therefore, I, William J. Clinton, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim March 3 through March 9, 1996, as Save Your Vision Week. I urge all the people of the United States to participate in this observance by making eye care and eye safety a priority and to recognize the important contributions that vision research makes to our lives. I invite eye care professionals, the media, and all public and private organizations committed to the goal of sight preservation to join in activities that educate our citizens about the simple steps they can take to save their vision.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this first day of March, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-six, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and twentieth.

WILLIAM J. CLINTON
  