
    The President today announced his intention to appoint the following individuals to be members of the National Advisory Council on Continuing Education:
Robert C. Angel is president and chief executive officer, Japan Economic Institute of America, Washington, D.C. He was born September 13, 1943. He would succeed Frances M. Davin.
Richard O. Brinkman is president, Clark Technical College, Springfield, Ohio. He was born February 8, 1926. He would succeed Dagmar I. Celeste.
William Hughes Brockbank is chairman of the board, Pine Mountain Corp., Oakland, Calif. He was born June 27, 1915. He would succeed John B. Ervin.
Mary Fenske Buestrin is a private bookkeeper for various family real estate and investment partnerships. She was born August 9, 1939. She would succeed Leo Christopher Donahue.
Sylvia Bernstein Hermann is vice president, National Federation of Republican Women, and vice chairman, Maryland Republican State Central Committee. She was born March 2, 1914. She would succeed Rupert A. Trujillo.
Jack Allen Kinder is executive secretary, Missouri State Teachers Association, Columbia, Mo. He was born April 1, 1933. He would succeed William L. Blockstein.
David O. Martin is director of State governmental relations, Kimberly-Clark Corp., Neenab, Wis. He was born March 7, 1931. He would succeed James C. Summers.
Bonnie Blackman McClure is involved in community and Republican Party activities in Beverly Hills, Calif. She was born April 17, 1939. She would succeed Lowell R. Eklund.
Morris Hadley Mills is a member of the Indiana State Senate and is ranking member of the elementary and secondary education committee. He was born September 25, 1927. He would succeed Constance M. Carroll.
Elsie Frankfurt Pollock is president, Page Boy, Inc., Los Angeles, Calif. She was born July 22, 1919. She would succeed Charles J. O'Leary.
John H. Richert is president, College of Saint Mary, Omaha, Nebr. He was born March 12, 1941. He would succeed Rajendra Prasad.
Talmage Eugene Simpkins is executive director, AFL-CIO Maritime Committee, Washington, D.C. He was born September 27, 1927. He would succeed Constance Timberlake.
  