
    To the Congress of the United States: 
Pursuant to section 233(e)(1) of the Social Security Act, as amended by the Social Security Amendments of 1977 (Public Law 95-216, 42 U.S.C. 433(e)(1)), I transmit herewith a social security totalization agreement with Uruguay, titled "Agreement on Social Security between the United States of America and the Oriental Republic of Uruguay," and the accompanying legally binding administrative arrangement, titled "Administrative Arrangement between the Competent Authorities of the United States of America and the Oriental Republic of Uruguay for the Implementation of the Agreement on Social Security between the United States of America and the Oriental Republic of Uruguay" (collectively the "Agreements"). The Agreements were signed at Montevideo, Uruguay, on January 10, 2017.
The Agreements are similar in objective and content to the social security totalization agreements already in force with most European Union countries, Australia, Canada, Chile, Japan, Norway, the Republic of Korea, and Switzerland. Such bilateral agreements provide for limited coordination between the United States and foreign social security systems to eliminate dual social security coverage and taxation, and to help prevent the lost benefit protection that can occur when workers divide their careers between two countries.
The Agreements contain all provisions mandated by section 233 of the Social Security Act and, pursuant to section 233(c)(4), other provisions which I deem appropriate to carry out the purposes of section 233.
I also transmit for the information of the Congress a report required by section 233(e)(1) of the Social Security Act on the estimated number of individuals who will be affected by the Agreements and the Agreements' estimated cost effect. Also included are a summary of the main provisions and an annotated version of the Agreements with descriptions of each article. The Department of State and the Social Security Administration have recommended the Agreements to me.
I commend to the Congress the Agreement on Social Security between the United States of America and the Oriental Republic of Uruguay and the Administrative Arrangement between the United States of America and the Oriental Republic of Uruguay for the Implementation of the Agreement on Social Security between the United States of America and the Oriental Republic of Uruguay.







      





DONALD J. TRUMP
The White House,
March 19, 2018.
  