
    "Rick Santorum is right — people are sick and tired of politicians going to Washington and not standing up for their principles. Unfortunately, Senator Santorum has already admitted that he was one of those politicians himself. We need a candidate who can change Washington, not a politician who let Washington change him." —Andrea Saul, Romney Campaign Spokesperson
This Weekend, Senator Santorum Derided "Politicians Going To Washington, D.C. And Not Standing Up For Their Principles":
Santorum: People Are "Sick And Tired Of Politicians Going To Washington, D.C. And Not Standing Up For Their Principles." SANTORUM: "How many times have you said you're sick and tired of politicians going to Washington, D.C. and not standing up for their principles? How many times have you said that in the last umpteen years?" (Rick Santorum, Remarks in Milwaukee, WI, 3/24/12)
But Just A Month Ago, Santorum Admitted To Voting "Against The Principles [He] Believed In" Because "Politics Is A Team Sport":
Santorum: "It Was Against The Principles I Believed In, But ... Sometimes You Take One For The Team." SANTORUM: "I supported No Child Left Behind. ... I have to admit, I voted for that. It was against the principles I believed in, but, you know, when you're part of the team, sometimes you take one for the team, for the leader, and I made a mistake. You know, politics is a team sport, folks." (GOP Presidential Debate, 2/22/12)


    The New York Times: "For A Presidential Candidate, It Was A Curious — And Unusual — Acknowledgement Of Politics Trumping Values." "Mr. Santorum just offered up what may be the evening's most wince-inducing moment: he declared that he had voted for President George W. Bush's No Child Left Behind education law even though 'it was my against my principles.' For a presidential candidate, it was a curious — and unusual — acknowledgement of politics trumping values." (Michael Barbaro, "A Negative Ad In The Making?" The New York Times, 2/22/12)
  



    The Washington Examiner: "It Was An Easy Opportunity For Any Of The Candidates To Paint Santorum As An Establishment Republican And A Washington Insider." "When asked about education reform and the 'No Child Left Behind' act, Rick Santorum admitted that he voted for the Bush legislation even though he didn't agree with it. ... It was an easy opportunity for any of the candidates to paint Santorum as an establishment Republican and a Washington insider." (Charlie Spiering, "Santorum Blows It: 'I Took One For The Team,'" The Washington Examiner, 2/22/12)
  

  