
    
Donald Trump claimed to be a supporter of the Second Amendment in tonight's debate. Here are the facts:
Trump supported an assault weapons ban, waiting period to purchase firearms and criticized Republicans for "walk[ing] the NRA line"
In 2000, Trump said he supported an assault weapons ban and a waiting period to purchase firearms.
"On gun control, as well, Trump has steadily tacked to the right. In his 2000 book, Trump wrote, 'I generally oppose gun control, but I support the ban on assault weapons and I support a slightly longer waiting period to purchase a gun. With today's Internet technology we should be able to tell within 72 hours if a potential gun owner has a record.'" ("Donald Trump: Truth-Teller Or Flip-Flopper," CBS News, 7/22/15)

Trump wrote in his book that he supported the ban on assault weapons.
"In his 2000 book 'The America We Deserve' Trump seemed to take a different stance. 'I generally oppose gun control, but I support the ban on assault weapons and I also support a slightly longer waiting period to purchase a gun,' he said. 'With today's Internet technology we should be able to tell within seventy-two hours if a potential gun owner has a record.'" (ABC News, 9/18/15)

Trump wrote in his book that he supported gun regulations like extending the waiting period to purchase a gun.
"In his 2000 book 'The America We Deserve' Trump seemed to take a different stance. 'I generally oppose gun control, but I support the ban on assault weapons and I also support a slightly longer waiting period to purchase a gun,' he said. 'With today's Internet technology we should be able to tell within seventy-two hours if a potential gun owner has a record.'" (ABC News, 9/18/15)

Trump also attacked the Republican position on gun control, saying they "walk the NRA line and refuse even limited restrictions."
"It's often argued that the American murder rate is high because guns are more available here than in other countries. After a tragedy like the massacre at Columbine High School, anyone could feel that it is too easy for Americans to get their hands on weapons. But nobody has a good solution. This is another issue where you see the extremes of the two existing major parties. Democrats want to coPnfiscate all guns, which is a dumb idea because only the law-abiding citizens would turn in their guns and the bad guys would be the only ones left armed. The Republicans walk the NRA line and refuse even limited restrictions." (Donald Trump, The America We Deserve, 2000)

  