
    Today, President Donald J. Trump announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key positions in his Administration:
Mary Toman of California, to be Under Secretary of Commerce for Economic Affairs.
Ms. Toman was most recently a member of the Department of Transportation Advisory Committee on Human Trafficking. In this role, Ms. Toman focused on the creation of effective public awareness and training resources to combat human trafficking.
Before joining the Department of Transportation, she served as the Deputy Treasurer of California where she helped manage nearly $200 billion in State assets. Prior to that, Ms. Toman served as a Deputy Assistant Secretary of Commerce for President George H.W. Bush.
Ms. Toman has a B.A. in Economics from Stanford University and an M.B.A from Harvard Business School.
Michael Nemelka of Utah, to be a Deputy United States Trade Representative (Investment, Services, Labor, Environment, Africa, China, and the Western Hemisphere), with the Rank of Ambassador.
Mr. Nemelka currently serves as Special Advisor to Ambassador Robert E. Lighthizer, the United States Trade Representative. Before joining government service, Mr. Nemelka was a partner at Kellogg, Hansen, Todd, Figel & Frederick, P.L.L.C. where his practice focused on complex commercial litigation.
Mr. Nemelka clerked on the United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit for Judge Paul V. Niemeyer.
A native of Mapleton, Utah, Mr. Nemelka holds a B.A. in History from Brigham Young University and a J.D. from the University of Virginia School of Law, where he was on the managing board of the Virginia Law Review.
Katharine T. Sullivan of Colorado, to be an Assistant Attorney General (Office of Justice Programs).
Ms. Sullivan currently serves as the Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General for the Office of Justice Programs at the Department of Justice. She previously served as the Acting Director of the Office on Violence Against Women at the Department of Justice.
Prior to joining the Department, Ms. Sullivan served as a Judge in the 5th Judicial District of Colorado. Before her appointment to the bench in 2007, Ms. Sullivan served as a Deputy District Attorney in the 9th Judicial District of Colorado and served as a member of the State Judicial Ethics Board.
Ms. Sullivan earned her B.A from Syracuse University and her J.D from George Washington University Law School.
  