
    President Donald J. Trump today announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key positions in his Administration:
John Rakolta, Jr. of Michigan, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the United Arab Emirates. Mr. Rakolta is a business executive and civic leader who has served as the chairman and chief executive officer, since 1993, of Detroit-based Walbridge Aldinger Company. Mr. Rakolta is also co-chair of the Coalition for the Future of Detroit School Children and of the Metropolitan Affairs Coalition and is as trustee of New Detroit Inc. and a campaign cabinet member for United Way of southeast Michigan. He also has served as an Honorary Consul for Romania. Mr. Rakolta earned his B.S. from Marquette University. Among other honors, he received the Woodrow Wilson Award for Corporate Citizenship from the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars (Smithsonian Institution).
Kyle McCarter of Illinois, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Kenya. Mr. McCarter, an Illinois manufacturer and politician, has been president and owner of Custom Product Innovations, Inc., since 1996, and of Custom Coating Innovations since 2009. He has also been a State senator in the Illinois General Assembly since 2009. From 1984-1989, he served as a field auditor, Missionary and International Director of Each One Feed One International, based in Lebanon, Illinois with an office in Mukothima, Kenya. Mr. McCarter volunteered as a Member of Mercy Ministries of America (now Mercy Multiplied), serving as president for one year. He has been a member of numerous Chambers of Commerce in Illinois. Mr. McCarter earned a B.S. at Oral Roberts University in Tulsa, Oklahoma.
Mark Rosen of Connecticut, to be the United States Executive Director of the International Monetary Fund for a term of two years. Mr. Rosen has more than 30 years of investment banking and mergers and acquisitions experience in emerging markets and around the world, with a focus on Latin America. Mr. Rosen is currently chairman of Latin America investment banking at Bank of America Merrill Lynch. He has also held positions at Credit Suisse, UBS, and Barclays among others, and is a fluent Spanish speaker. He earned a MBA degree from the Harvard Business School and a MA in politics, philosophy, and economics from Oxford University.
----
President Donald J. Trump Announces Intent to Appoint Personnel to Key Administration Post
President Donald J. Trump today announced his intent to appoint the following individual to a key position in his Administration:
David F. Eisner of New York, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Treasury for Management. Mr. Eisner is a private investor and the executive chairman of Compliance Science, Inc., a financial industry regulation technology company. Previously, Mr. Eisner was the founder and CEO of TheMarkets.com LLC, which was sold to The McGraw-Hill Companies in 2010. He spent 12 years at the investment bank Jefferies & Company, including six years as executive vice president in the office of the chairman. Mr. Eisner earned a B.S. in accounting and government at American University, where he later served on the Board of Trustees, and a J.D. from Boston University School of Law, where he was an editor of the American Journal of Law and Medicine. He is president of Ohr Torah Institutions of Israel and past president of The Jewish Education Project.
  