
    President George W. Bush today announced that he has named seven people to serve in his Administration.
The President has named Julie Cram to be Deputy Assistant to the President and Director of Public Liaison. Ms. Cram previously served as Vice President of Corporate Communications at TerreStar Networks Inc. Earlier in her career, she served as Director of Public Affairs at Burson-Marsteller and Director of Public Affairs of the International Trade Administration at the Department of Commerce. Ms. Cram received her bachelor's degree from the American University.
The President has named Brent McIntosh to be Deputy Assistant to the President and Deputy Staff Secretary. Mr. McIntosh previously served as Associate Counsel to the President. Earlier in his career, he served as Deputy Assistant Attorney General at the United States Department of Justice. Mr. McIntosh received his bachelor's degree from the University of Michigan and his JD from Yale Law School.
The President has named Dan Meyer to be Deputy Assistant to the President for Legislative Affairs. Mr. Meyer previously served as Vice President of The Duberstein Group, Inc. Earlier in his career, he served as Chief of Staff to the Speaker of the U.S. House of Representatives. Mr. Meyer received his bachelor's degree from the University of Minnesota.
The President has named David Boyer to be Special Assistant to the President for Legislative Affairs. Mr. Boyer previously served as Assistant Commissioner for Legislation in the Office of the Commissioner at the Food and Drug Administration. He received his bachelor's degree from Georgetown University.
The President has named Daniel J. Kaniewski to be Special Assistant to the President for Homeland Security and Senior Director for Response Policy. Mr. Kaniewski previously served as Director, Response and Recovery Policy on the Homeland Security Council staff at the White House. Mr. Kaniewski received his bachelor's degree from the George Washington University, his master's degree from Georgetown University, and is certified as a paramedic.
The President has named Matt Latimer to be Special Assistant to the President for Speechwriting. Mr. Latimer previously served as Chief Speechwriter for the Secretary of Defense at the Department of Defense. Mr. Latimer received his bachelor's degree from the University of Michigan, his master's degree from Columbia University and his JD from the University of Michigan Law School.
The President has named Stacie Maass to be Special Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy. Ms. Maass previously served as Executive Director of the Medicaid Commission at the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. She received her bachelor's degree from the University of Iowa College of Pharmacy and her JD from the University of Nebraska College of Law.
  