
    Mitt Romney today announced the endorsement of former Montana Governors Tim Babcock and Judy Martz, who together will lead the Romney for President effort in Montana as Honorary State Chairs.
  "Governors Babcock and Martz spent their time in office fighting to improve the economy for the people of Montana," said Governor Romney after the announcement.  "They understand the importance of responsible spending and keeping taxes low.  I look forward to working with them to deliver my message of a stronger economy, stronger military and stronger families to the citizens of Montana."  Former Montana Governor and Republican National Committee Chairman Marc Racicot endorsed Romney last week.
"Governor Romney, as a former chief executive, has the experience, vision and values to lead our country," stated Governor Martz.  "His proven record of turning around companies and the state of Massachusetts, not to mention his success with the Winter Olympics in Salt Lake City, demonstrates that he has the strong leadership abilities to turn around our country.  He is the one Republican candidate that can bring the conservative principles of lower taxes, restrained spending and smaller government to Washington."
The Romney for President campaign also announced that Rep. Scott Reichner from Bigfork will serve as General Chairman of the Romney for President Montana Committee.  Rep. Reichner has been instrumental in early organizational efforts in the state.  He is joined by a number of GOP leaders and current and former legislators that have endorsed Romney including:
 Former Governor Tim Babcock
Former Governor Judy Martz
Former Governor Marc Racicot
House Speaker Mike Milburn (Cascade)
Former Senate President Bob Story (Park City)
Former House Speaker John Mercer (Polson)
Senator Ed Buttrey (Great Falls)
Senator Llew Jones (Conrad)
Senator Ed Walker (Billings)
Former Senator Bob Depratu (Whitefish)
Rep. Scott Reichner (Bigfork)
Rep. Duane Ankney (Colstrip)
Rep. Jesse O'Hara (Great Falls)
Rep. Jonathan McNiven (Huntley)
Rep. Liz Bangerter (Helena)
Rep. Rob Cook (Conrad)
Rep. Steve Fitzpatrick (Great Falls)
Rep. Tom Burnett (Bozeman)
Rep. Ken Peterson (Billings)
Former Rep. Dennis Himmelberger (Billings)
Republican National Committeeman Errol Galt (Martinsdale)
Former Montana GOP Executive Director Chuck Denowh (Helena)
Romney previously announced Mark Baker of Helena and Mark Lewis of Bozeman as his Montana Finance Chairs.
  