
    Pool Reports by Stephanie Noda, North Jersey Media Group 



Sent:
Reports:




March 15, 202314:44

VP DNC finance event pool report #1
Vice President Kamala Harris arrived at 2:06 to deliver remarks at private residence during a finance event in Paramus, NJ. She thanked healthcare leaders in the room for bringing health and stability to communities during the pandemic and began to talk about the importance of making high speed internet connection accessible and the importance of addressing mental health in our country.



March 15, 202314:57

VP Paramus finance event pool report #2
"We have gone through a pandemic, we have shown telemedicine could work and now we have a heightened need for mental health care in our country."
"The problem with the way that we've been dealing with this as a country is we act as if healthcare starts from the neck down. But what about healthcare from the neck up? Mental health."Harris said telemedicine can be a "game changer." For those who may not want to be seen by their neighbors going to a mental health clinic, these individuals can get mental health care in the privacy of their own homes, said Harris.



March 15, 202315:18

VP Paramus finance event pool report #3
Harris also went on to discuss the importance of removing lead pipes, mentioning passing legislation that will get rid of all lead pipes in America in the next nine years. Individuals should not be the ones to remove lead pipes, as it is "an appropriate responsibility of the government charged with public health and public education," said Harris.
She concluded her 20 minute speech by thanking healthcare leaders again and stressing a focus on communities and the needs of families and how together they can uplift their conditions.
"There's good work that's been happening and there's more work to be done and we are all in it together," said Harris to the sounds of applause by attendees.
Harris will later be attending to film a segment of The Late Show with Stephen Colbert at 6 p.m. in New York City.




  