
    Newark, NJ -- Today, Cory 2020 announced the hiring of several communications staff to Cory Booker's campaign team, including in the critical early states of New Hampshire and Nevada. This diverse team of professionals will help ensure that Booker's vision for a united country in which the ties that bind us are stronger than the lines that divide us is communicated to voters across the country.
Julie McClain Downey will serve as Director of State Communications. McClain Downey was most recently the Senior Director of Campaign Communications for EMILY's List, overseeing communications in a year of historic victories for the organization. She has previously served as New Hampshire communications director for Hillary Clinton's campaign in 2016, communications director for the New Hampshire Democratic Party focused on Senator Jeanne Shaheen's reelection in 2014, press secretary for Senator Brian Schatz in 2013, and deputy press secretary for Shelley Berkley's Nevada U.S. Senate campaign in 2012. She is from North Caldwell, NJ and is a graduate of the University of Pennsylvania.
Chris Moyer will serve as New Hampshire Communications Director. A Granite State native, Moyer most recently was the communications director for Molly Kelly's gubernatorial campaign, which earned a record-setting vote total to win the Democratic nomination in 2018. Moyer worked as a regional press secretary on Hillary Clinton's 2016 campaign in Ohio and as body man and press secretary for Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid's 2010 re-election victory in Nevada. Moyer has also worked in the U.S. Senate, serving as deputy press secretary for Majority Leader Reid and press secretary for former North Carolina Senator Kay Hagan. He is from Hampstead, NH and a graduate of Boston University.
Sabrina Singh will serve as National Press Secretary. Singh was most recently the Democratic National Committee's deputy communications director, overseeing the states and coalitions communications programs. She previously served as a regional communications director on Hillary Clinton's 2016 presidential campaign, communications director for Katie McGinty's U.S. Senate campaign in Pennsylvania, deputy communications director for the Democratic Governors Association, senior associate at SKDKnickerbocker and communications director for Rep. Jan Schakowsky. During the 2012 cycle, Singh served as the deputy press secretary for the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee. She is from Los Angeles, CA and is a graduate of the University of Southern California.
Vanessa Valdivia will serve as Nevada Communications Director and Deputy National Press Secretary for Spanish Language Media. Valdivia most recently worked as Communications Director for U.S. Senator Martin Heinrich and led the communications team for his successful re-election in 2018. She previously worked for Hillary Clinton's 2016 campaign, helping win the Nevada caucus as an organizer during the primary and leading Latino outreach in Colorado in the general election. Prior to the campaign, Valdivia was an associate at the Los Angeles-based consulting firm Gonring, Spahn and Associates. A California native, Valdivia earned her Masters at the University of Southern California and is a graduate of the University of California, Santa Barbara.
  