
    STATEMENT OF ADMINISTRATION POLICY
(House Rules)(Rep. Watson Coleman, D-NJ, and 116 cosponsors)
The Administration strongly supports H.R. 2116, the Creating a Respectful and Open World for Natural Hair (CROWN) Act of 2022. The bill would prohibit discrimination based on hair texture and protective hairstyles that are commonly associated with a particular race or national origin, including locs, cornrows, braids, twists, Bantu knots, and Afros. The bill would require that discrimination on this basis be treated as if it were race or national origin discrimination under Titles VI and Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, the Fair Housing Act, and certain other Federal civil rights laws.
The President believes that no person should be denied the ability to obtain a job, succeed in school or the workplace, secure housing, or otherwise exercise their rights based on a hair texture or hair style. Over the course of our Nation's history, society has used hair texture and hairstyle — along with race, national origin and skin color— to discriminate against individuals. Pernicious forms of systemic racism persist when dress and grooming codes, for example, prohibit hair texture or hairstyle that is commonly associated with a particular race or national origin. Such discrimination has imposed significant economic costs, learning disruption, and denial of economic opportunities for people of color. Black women, for example, experience discrimination in hiring because of natural hair styles, and Black girls experience disproportionate rates of school discipline, sometimes for discriminatory hair violations.
Since the President took office, the Administration has worked to advance equity and address entrenched disparities that hold people back. Executive Order 13985, Advancing Racial Equity and Support for Underserved Communities Through the Federal Government, established that it is the policy of the Administration that the Federal Government should pursue a comprehensive approach to advancing equity for all, including people of color and others who have been historically underserved, marginalized, and adversely affected by persistent poverty and inequality. The President also signed Executive Order 14020 Establishing the White House Gender Policy Council, and mandating the release of the first-ever U.S. government strategy to address gender equity and equality. This strategy lays out a vision for addressing the impact of intersectional discrimination and bias on the basis of gender, race, and other factors, including those faced by women and girls of color. In signing these orders, the President recognized that preventing discrimination in employment, education, housing, and other programs that receive Federal financial assistance would bolster the strength of our economy and advance equal opportunity for all Americans.
The Administration looks forward to working with the Congress to enact this legislation and ensure that it is effectively implemented.
  