
    Pool Reports by  Nikki Schwab, Daily Mail



Sent:
Reports:




March 17, 202111:05

VPOTUS pool report No. 1 - spray with Taoiseach Micheal Martin details
Happy St. Patrick's Day from the EEOB.
This morning Vice President Kamala Harris is holding a virtual meeting with Taoiseach Micheal Martin.
Pool is currently holding waiting for the meeting to start.
The White House sends along these attendees:
1. Ms. Tina Flournoy, Assistant to the President and Chief of Staff to the Vice President2. Ambassador Nancy McEldowney, Assistant to the President and National Security Advisor to the Vice President3. Dr. Philip Gordon, Deputy Assistant to the President and Deputy National Security Advisor to the Vice President4. Ambassador Maureen Cormack, Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for European and Eurasian Affairs5. Ms. Kelly Adams-Smith, Senior Coordinator for National Security Affairs, Office of the Vice President6. Mr. Gary Tripmacher, Special Advisor to the Vice President for Europe, Russia and Multilateral Affairs7. Ms. Rebecca Neff, Director for Europe, National Security Council (back bench)(VTC)8. Ms. Alexandra McKnight, Chargé d'affaires ad interim, US Embassy Ireland9. Mr. Michael Fuchs, Special Assistant to the President and Deputy Chief of Staff to the Vice President
Irish side
Prime Minister of Ireland / TaoiseachH.E. Micheál MARTIN
Ambassador of Ireland to the United StatesH.E. Daniel MULHALL
Chief of StaffMs. Deirdre GILLANE
Secretary GeneralMr. Martin FRASER
Second Secretary GeneralMr. John CALLINAN
Assistant SecretaryMs. Helen BLAKE
CounsellorMs. Emer DEANE
Deputy Head of Mission, Embassy of IrelandMs. Emer ROCKE
Some color:
Martin could be seen on the TV screens and is wearing a shamrock tie and a live shamrock on his lapel.
There's a shamrock on the table. And a Frederick Douglass bust on display.
The VP's office sends along background on the Frederick Douglass bust in Ceremonial
This Work is on Loan from the Howard University Gallery of Art and Howard University reserves all rights with respect to the work.Isaac Scott Hathaway (1872-1967) was an African American sculptor dedicated to ennobling portrayals of people of color. A multi-talented artist, he was trained in art, music, and theatre at the New England Conservatory of Music in Boston, Pittsburg State University in Kansas, and the Cincinnati Art Academy. His first foray into sculpture was a bust of Richard Allen, the 1794 founder of the African Methodist Episcopal (AME) Church. Working in painted plaster and bronze, Hathaway made several busts of renowned African Americans, including this one of abolitionist and statesman, Frederick Douglass, completed in 1918. Over his lifetime, Hathaway taught art at the University of Arkansas, Pine Bluff and at Tuskegee Institute. He also designed two U.S. coins: The Booker T. Washington Memorial half dollar in 1946 and the George Washington Carver/Booker T. Washington commemorative half dollar in 1951. An Isaac Scott Hathaway Museum was established in Lexington, Kentucky and is now part of the Robert H. Williams Cultural Center there.



March 17, 202111:17

VPOTUS Pool Report No. 2 - meeting begins, Atlanta mentioned
Pool was led into Harris' ceremonial office at 11:10 a.m.
Harris spoke about the Atlanta shootings at the tip of the meeting:
"It is tragic," she said, sending condolences to the families."We grieve for the loss."
"It speaks to a larger issue which is violence in our country and to never tolerate it," she continued.
She sent out a message to the AAPI community and spoke out about hate crimes.
She said they were "Not clear about the motive."
"Not all of us should be silent is any form of hate."
Martin also expressed condolences.
Quotes are rough - will send out a better transcript later.
More TK



March 17, 202111:24

VPOTUS Pool Report No. 3 - spray over
Pool was pulled at 11:20 a.m. with Harris ignoring a question about Northern Ireland.
Harris and Martin talked about shared connections:
"As you may know I hail from California, where we take great pride in what we have created around technology and I have great admiration for the work that you're doing in Ireland and the partners that we share," Harris said.
Harris pointed to the Frederick Douglass bust, noting that it was on loan from her alma mater, Howard University.
She is wearing a dark green top and also a live shamrock.



March 17, 202111:47

VPOTUS Pool Report No. 4 - longer quotes
Full Harris quotes on Atlanta:
"It is tragic. Our country, the president and I and all of us, we grieve for those lost. Our prayers are with the families of those who have been killed. This speaks to a larger issue which is the issue of violence in our country and what we must do to never tolerate it and to always speak out against it."
"The investigation is ongoing, we don't yet know, we're not yet clear about the motive. But I do want to say to our Asian American community that we stand with you and understand how this has frightened and shocked and outraged all people."
Harris on Ireland:
"I was excited that of the many responsibilities that I will perform as vice president, to at the beginning of my service as vice president to be part of this tradition. I only with that it were in person but we can hope for next year, that we will share a good breakfast together."
"I will tell you that our commitment to Ireland remains steadfast and strong."
"In the midst of global freedoms being in decline our nations remain close because we are committed to democracy. At a time when there are threats to not only health but our climate and security our nations remain committed as partners in solidarity to the importance of fighting for human dignity. On behalf of the president I would like to thank Ireland for advancing our shared values."
She thanked the Taoiseach for "300,000 American jobs."
"Happy St. Patrick's Day to everyone and to you."
Martin's comments to Harris:
"First of all, madam vice president, I'd like to express my condolences to you and to the American people and to the families, all the grieving families of those killed and injured in the tragic shooting in Atlanta."
"And I join with you saying we have to consistently and constantly speak up about this kind of mindless violence."
Martin brought up the November 1990 election of Mary Robinson, Ireland's first female president.
"She famously remarked that she had been elected by the women of Ireland – who instead of rocking the cradle, rocked the system."
("Oh that's good!" Harris replied.)
"We know the ties between our nations are rich, they're deep. The grass on the flag of your own home state of California, of which that famous grizzly bear prowls is officially an Irish breed."
Harris on Frederick Douglass bust:
"I actually have a bust, I don't know if you can see it, but my alma mater is Howard University here in Washington, D.C., and they have shared with us this bust of Frederick Douglass who, as you know, famously said and I'll paraphrase, but the first time he was treated as a full man with dignity was his trip to Ireland and later today you and I will join with the students who will be visiting Ireland, the African-American students, in the spirit of Frederick Douglas and in the name of Frederick Douglass."



March 17, 202112:33

VPOTUS Pool Report No. 5 - Frederick Douglass Global Fellows event
Vice President Kamala Harris will be virtually meeting with Taoiseach Micheal Martin and the Frederick Douglass Global Fellows in the South Court Auditorium.
There's a chair and table set up for Harris. Her glass of water has a green straw. She's surrounded by three Jumbotron screens and American and Irish flags.
Pool was brought in at 12:20 p.m.
The students and adult participants are up on the screen.
Ambassador Daniel Mulhall kicked off the event. He showed off portraits of Frederick Douglass and Rep. John Lewis and their Irish counterparts that sat behind him.
Martin quoted Frederick Douglass and spoke of his trip to Ireland 175 years ago. He noted that Douglass visited before the "great Irish famine," which drove many people to be immigrants. "President Biden's ancestors among them," Martin added.
Harris then spoke:
"I'm looking at the screen and see all of the faces of our young leaders. I'm so proud of you. I'm so proud of you," she said.
"So this fellowship program led by the Council on International Educational Exchange gives students in the United States, students of color, the opportunity to study abroad," she said.
"I have this sculpture of Frederick Douglass on loan from the Howard University Gallery of Art, that reminds me of who he was and what he stood for," she said.
"You will travel, you will create friendships around the globe as an extension of the work that we do as a country, to inspire and to work on and to build on the friendships we have around the world, and hopefully when you're in Ireland this summer, walking in the footsteps of that great American Frederick Douglass, remember that you are great," she said.
Pool was pulled at 12:31 p.m.
More quotes TK



March 17, 202112:54

VPOTUS Pool Report No. 6 - fellows, additional color and quotes
Here are the fellows, per the VP's office:
Brielle Smith, Howard UniversityIesha-Lashay Phillips, Oberlin CollegePaul Douillon, University of MiamiLeeah Derenoncourt, Emerson CollegeCarolina Jimenez, Harvard UniversityDelali Gadzekpo, University of Tennessee at ChattanoogaJaylen Antoine, University of Puget SoundMikayla Tillery, Stanford UniversityCorinne Bobb-Semple, Pomona CollegeNikita Joshi, University of Missouri Kansas CityKatherine Sanchez, Lehman College – CUNYIsaiah Franco, Wofford CollegeAyodele Theard-Lewis, Xavier University of LouisianaSophia Katheryn Jackson, Bard CollegePrevail Bonga, University of Illinois ChicagoMistique Davis, California State FresnoRay Vincent de Jesus, Montclair State UniversityLuis Gonzalez, Benedict CollegeMarkal Kelly, Morehouse CollegeCameron Lovings, Hampton UniversityHana Mohamad, University of HoustonKanyinsola Oye, Howard University
Some additional color/quotes from the Frederick Douglass event:
Douglass' great, great-granddaughter Nettie Washington Douglass participated.
Ambassador Mulhall mentioned the portraits behind him. Daniel O'Connell was in the picture with Frederick Douglass. They met in Dublin in 1845.
Martin told the students, "I'm particularly delighted that when circumstances permit, we will be visiting my hometown Cork, which among its many charms and attractions is also the sister city of Vice President Harris' San Francisco."
"Miss Nettie Washington Douglass who is here with us today has supported this program since its inception," Harris said. "I'm sure she'd agree, given her great, great grandfather's time in Ireland that this year's fellowship program is very special. Frederick Douglass the great American statesman traveled to Ireland, as the Taoiseach said, over 175 year ago. He traveled to Ireland to avoid being recaptured into slavery. So he was seeking safety and refuge. And there he crossed paths with the Irish abolitionist Daniel O'Connell. And for the first time Frederick Douglass felt truly free."
Harris continued: "In his own words in Ireland, he was not treated as a color, but as a man."
And then she finished: "You are great and you are walking in great footsteps. He imagined, I'm sure, in those days when he was in Ireland, that you would be coming behind him. So I'm counting on all of you to live up to that potential."
That's it from me – handing it off to the second VPOTUS pool for this afternoon's swearing-in ceremony. Have a great St. Patrick's Day! Slainte!




 
Pool Reports below by  Bricio Segovia, MVS Radio



Sent:
Reports:




March 17, 202115:42

VP Pool Report #1 / Gathering for Michael Regan Swearing-in
Good afternoon,
I will be your pooler for Michael Regan swearing-in ceremony as the 16th Administrator of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). It is a cloudy day at the White House (50ºF) and the water of the North Lawn fountain is green today to honor St. Patrick's Day. Your pooler has been covid tested, got a negative result and will celebrate later with a pint of Guinness!
Pool is gathered outside the West Wing at 3:40PM EST to be escorted to the Vice President's Ceremonial Office in the Eisenhower Executive Office Building (EEOB), where the event will take place. Vice President Kamala Harris will administer the oath. The ceremony is scheduled for 4:00PM EST.
The Senate confirmed Michael Reagan as EPA Administrator on March 10 with a 66-34 vote. He is the first African-American man to hold this position. The first African-American person who did so was Lisa Jackson (2009-20013).
The EPA released the following statement after Michael Reagan was sworn on March 11 -today's event is a ceremonial swearing-in-:https://www.epa.gov/newsreleases/michael-s-regan-sworn-16th-epa-administrator



March 17, 202116:01

VP Pool Report #2 / Waiting for Michael Regan Swearing-in
Pool is waiting at the Vice President's Ceremonial Office, in the Eisenhower Executive Office Building (EEOB), where Michael Regan swearing-in ceremony will take place. Twelve members of the press are in the room, including your pooler.
The Vice President's Ceremonial Office is a grand room with a nautical motif. In fact, it served as the Navy Secretary's Office when the EEOB housed the State, Navy, and War Departments. A large golden mirror sits on a fireplace in the center of the stage. Two American flags and two VP flags are on the right of the fireplace, and next to them there is a wooden armoir with mockups of the State, War, and Navy Department Building, as well as of the USS Indianapolis (CA-35); a photograph of Secretary of the Navy Josephus Daniels (1913); and other nautical objects. According to the White House website, the hexagon design wood floor is made of mahogany, white maple, and cherry, and the two fireplaces are original Belgian black marble. The wall paint of the room is an old baby blue and has several murals. At the other end of the room sits the Vice President's Desk, which is part of the White House collection and was first used by Theodore Roosevelt in 1902.
Two photos of the stage can be downloaded here: https://we.tl/t-UgG1MVZV6N



March 17, 202116:11

VP Pool Report #3 / Still Waiting for Michael Regan Swearing-in + Guests
Pool is still waiting. Your pooler can hear VPOTUS greeting the participants, cheers and laughter in the room next door the Vice President's Ceremonial Office, in the Eisenhower Executive Office Building.
It is 4:10PM EST. The swearing in ceremony was scheduled for 4:00PM EST.
A Bible Administrator Regan received as a high school graduation present from his church will be used for the oath.
Please find below the list of guests, as per VP Office:
Melvina Thomas Regan (Wife)Matthew Silas Regan (Son, age 7)Zeb Stuart Regan, Jr. (Father)Mavis Artis Regan (Mother)



March 17, 202116:17

VP Pool Report #4 / Michael Regan Swearing-in underway and over
The event began at 4:14PM EST and lasted les than two minutes. It took place in the Vice President's Ceremonial Office, in the Eisenhower Executive Office Building.
FYI this is the oath that Administrator Regan repeated after the VP: "I, Michael Regan, do solemnly swear that I will support and defend the Constitution of the United States against all enemies foreign and domestic, that I will bear true faith and allegiance to the same, that I take this obligation freely, without any mental reservation or purpose of evasion, that I will well and faithfully discharge the duties of the office upon which I'm about to enter, so help me God."
Quotes, color, video and photos tk.



March 17, 202116:52

VP Pool Report #5 / Michael Regan Swearing-in Quotes, Color, Photos and Video
The Vice President entered the room first at 4:14PM EST followed by Administrator Michael Regan's wife and son, Regan himself, his mother and his father, in that order. EPA Administrator's wife, Melvina Thomas Regan, carried the Bible used for the oath. They all wore black face masks, except for the the seven-year old son, Matthew Silas Regan. His had a colorful pattern (see photos and video below).
VPOTUS was wearing a black suit, a green blouse, a silver necklace with transparent stones and a US flag pin on the left lapel of her suit; Administrator Regan wore a grey suit, a white shirt and a black tie; his wife and his mother both wore black suits; and his father, a grey suit. Administrator Regan's son wore a blue suit, bright blue sneakers and a button on his lapel.
They all stood in front of the flags and the fireplace. Mrs. Regan held the Bible while her son stood by her side grabbing her blazer. VPOTUS asked Administrator Regan to put his hand on the Bible and to rise his right hand, and proceeded to read the oath. Administrator Regan repeated the oath while his soon looked at him without even blinking.
After Administrator Regan swore the oath, the Vice President fervently said: "Congratulations, Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency!" She looked at her cheat sheet before saying the full name of the agency. She laughed afterwards. They all clapped and posed for the photographers for a few seconds, while the VP asked them to take "an official photograph". Regan's son gave a thumb up as he clearly smiled under his face mask. Then, he and Mrs. Regan hugged the Administrator.
VPOTUS walked away when a member of the pool started to ask a questions that did not finish.
Pool was escorted out shortly after.
A couple of photos and video of the event taken with my phone can be downloaded here:https://wetransfer.com/downloads/bda2a3adc998870e7177099402f7faa320210317201845/f2a7a72f9bd0701b880a882f1e6461b720210317201910/34aca4
The White House usually uploads the TV pool video of the ceremony on its YouTube channel.
Have a great evening and happy St. Patrick's, everyone!




  