
    Austin, TX - The Obama Campaign today announced a new television advertisement titled Leader ran in markets across Texas during last night's evening news and will run again tonight. The two-minute ad features Senator Obama speaking directly to Texans about his commitment to uniting our country and bringing to Washington, D.C. the kind of change we can believe in.
Click here to view the ad: http://tx.barackobama.com/tx_leader
LEADER TRANSCRIPT:
I'm Barack Obama and I approve this message.
For years, we've watched politicians divide us, seen lobbyists put their interests ahead of ours, and heard our leaders tell us what we want to hear, instead of what we need to hear.
The question you have to ask yourself is this:
Who can take can take us in a fundamentally new direction? I'm running to finally solve problems we talk about year after year after year.
To end the division, the obscene influence of lobbyists and the politics that value scoring points over making progress. We can't afford more of that -- not this year, not now.
I've spent my life working for change that's made a real difference in the lives of real people. That's why I passed up a job on Wall Street -- to fight joblessness and poverty on the streets of Chicago when the local steel plant closed.
That's why I turned down the corporate law firms to work as a civil right lawyer -- to fight for those who have been denied opportunity. That's why I fought for tough new ethics law in Illinois and Washington -- to cut the power of lobbyists -- and I won.
That's why I brought Democrats and Republicans together to provide health care and tax relief to working families. And that's why I opposed this war in Iraq from the start. It wasn't popular, but it was right.
This country is ready for a leader who will bring us together. That's the only way we're going to win this election. And that's actually how we'll fix health care and make college affordable, become energy independent and end this war.
I'm reminded every day that I'm not a perfect man. And I won't be a perfect President. But I can promise you this: I will always tell you where I stand and what I think. I will listen to you when we disagree. I will carry your voices to the White House and I will fight for you every day I'm there.
On Tuesday, help change Washington; let's bring Democrats, Republicans and Independents together, not just to win an election, but to transform a nation.
  