
    
  Engages supporters, undecided voters at Louisiana College and Southeastern Louisiana University

BATON ROUGE, Louisiana — 2012 Republican Presidential candidate Ron Paul will hold two large town hall meetings on college campuses in Louisiana, continuing the 12-term Congressman from Texas' tradition of attracting large crowds of supporters and undecided voters.
The college campus town hall meetings will occur on Friday, March 23rd beginning in the afternoon. Both events are free and open to the public as well as the university communities.
The first of Ron Paul's campus town hall meeting will take place at 1 p.m. CST in Louisiana College's Guinn Auditorium, located at 1140 College Drive, Pineville, LA 71360. Doors open to the public at 12:30 p.m. To reserve your seat for the town hall meeting featuring Dr. Paul and enter the venue 30 minutes earlier than the general public, please click here.
The second of Dr. Paul's two campus town hall meetings will occur at 7 p.m. CST at Southeastern Louisiana University's University Center, located at 800 West University Avenue, Hammond, LA 70402. Doors open to the public at 6:30 p.m. To reserve your seat for this campus town hall meeting featuring Dr. Paul and enter the venue 30 minutes earlier than the general public, please click here.
"We're excited to bring Ron Paul back to Louisiana, where he kicked off 'Youth for Ron Paul' at LSU last September before presiding over the grand opening ceremony of his Louisiana state headquarters in Baton Rouge. Since then, thousands more people have joined the youth effort, and the energy around his campaign continues to grow. Young people and true conservatives know he's the only candidate who will bring real change to Washington, balance the budget, and boost our economy," said Edward King, National Youth Director for the Ron Paul 2012 Presidential Campaign.
Since 'Youth for Ron Paul' launched in September 2011, students nationwide have organized 588 chapters and recruited more than 50,000 people. To learn more about 'Youth for Ron Paul' including how to sign-up and establish a local chapter, visit the YFP website by clicking here.
Both campus town hall meetings will be followed by an open press opportunity. Members of the local and major print, broadcast, and online media with particular needs should contact Assistant Press Secretary Arick Stall at aricks@ronpaul2012.com. Please, no exceptions.
Details of the events are as follows. All times Central.
Friday, March 23, 2012
1:00 p.m.
Campus Town Hall Meeting with Ron Paul
Guinn Auditorium
Louisiana College
1140 College Drive
Pineville, LA 71360
For a map of the location, please click here. To reserve your seat and enter 30 minutes early, click here.
7:00 p.m.
Campus Town Hall Meeting with Ron Paul
University Center
Southeastern Louisiana University
800 West University Avenue
Hammond, LA 70402
For a map of the location, please click here. To reserve your seat and enter 30 minutes early, click here.
  