
    Taoiseach, thanks. Small island, huge impact on the United States of America. [Laughter] Laura and I are glad you're here. We welcome you back to the White House on this Saint Patrick's Day. I can't think of a better way to celebrate it than with the Taoiseach. Thanks for the bowl of shamrocks. As you said, this is the eighth time I had the honor of receiving this from you. And I want to thank you for your friendship—your personal friendship—and all you've done to strengthen the deep and lasting bond between our two nations.
Also proud to be here with John O'Donoghue, the Speaker of the Dail. Welcome. Members of my Cabinet who are here, thank you for coming. Members of the United States Senate and the United States Congress who've joined us, we're glad you're here. And I know the Taoiseach is glad you're here too. [Laughter] He was asking me, "Are you in session?" I said, "No, they're out of town." He said, "Well, you must be feeling better about that." [Laughter] We'll be having lunch with you soon.
How about members of the fire department of New York's Emerald Society? I thank you for coming. They proudly carry the title "New York's bravest" and rightly so.
And finally, I will be introducing soon Ronan Tynan to entertain us a little bit. He is a wonderful representative of your country. He's a dear friend of the Bush family, and we're so thankful he is here with us today.
You know, Taoiseach, you were awfully diplomatic to talk about the fact that the architect came back to rebuild the White House after 1814. What, of course, you didn't say was why the White House needed to be rebuilt in the first place. [Laughter] And so I'm proud to welcome the Ambassador from Great Britain, our dear friend. [Laughter] Thanks for coming.
I don't know if you know this, but America held its first Saint Patrick's Day celebration in Boston in the year 1737. I don't think you were there, Congressman, but— [laughter]—shortly thereafter. [Laughter] Nearly 40 years later, in the midst of the Revolution, at least 9 of the 56 signatures on the Declaration of Independence were inked by Irish hands.
We've had a long relationship, Taoiseach. Our history has been one where the United States and Ireland have made liberty our common cause, and both of our nations are richer for it. Our partnership is based upon principles, and it's also based upon people. Ireland founded itself—found itself in the grip of poverty and famine in the 19th century, and millions of Irish came here to our soil. They were drawn here by a promise that success would be attainable to all those who were willing to work hard. And that's certainly what happened.
It's an interesting poster that somebody brought to my attention that said this: "In the United States, an industrious youth may follow any occupation without being looked down upon, and he may rationally expect to raise himself in the world by his labor." You know, occasionally, people did look down, but not anymore, because Irish have been unbelievably productive people for the United States of America. They've made a huge contribution. They've become an essential thread in the American fabric.
And that's what we celebrate on Saint Patrick's Day. Our countries are more than just partners; we are family, Taoiseach. And today, more than 35 million Americans claim Irish ancestry. America is richer for every Murphy, Kelly, and O'Sullivan. I should have said McCain, but—[laughter]. Well, I just did. [Laughter] After all this history together, the United States and the Republic of Ireland continue to stand side by side in firm friendship. We were friends in the past, we're friends today, and, Taoiseach, I am confident, after my time in office, the next President will be friends with Ireland. We are cooperating to build prosperous economies and—with vibrant trade and sound investment between our countries.
I want to congratulate the Taoiseach. He was very generous in his praise about America's role, previous administration's role—hopefully, our role—in helping Northern Ireland have a peaceful future. But, Taoiseach, the truth of the matter is, I said on TV in there that you've had a steady hand, and you've been supportive. And I do want to applaud those who are here who've shown great courage, who've been able to put together—put beside— behind them a terrible past and focused on a hopeful future. And it was my huge honor, Martin, to welcome you and Dr. Paisley to the Oval Office. It was an historic moment for me, personally. And it was really, really positive.
But I came away with the impression that obviously the United States needs to help, and we will. But nothing will happen without clear conviction and determination by the folks who live in Northern Ireland. And there's more work to be done, Taoiseach. As you said, the devolution of policing is important, and we support that. But we can also help by sending a clear signal that we're interested in investment opportunities. And so the Northern Ireland investment conference in May will be held. And I want to repeat what I told the Taoiseach, is that we will send a high-level delegation to not only send a signal that we support the efforts of the folks in Northern Ireland, but we expect our folks to be able to find good investment opportunities—for the good of both.
And so, Taoiseach, I, like you, marvel at the success that's taken place since my short time as President and know full well that more progress can and will be made.
You know, there's an old Irish proverb that says, "There is no strength without unity." And so on this Saint Patrick's Day, we can all take pride in the way that the United States and Ireland have come together to enrich each other in the world.
My last time as President to have a Saint Patrick's Day with you, Taoiseach. Perhaps when we join the ex-leaders club, we'll sit back and put our feet up—[laughter]—and talk about the good old times. In the meantime, I know you're going to sprint to the finish, as am I, for the good of our countries.
Thank you for coming. God bless the people of Ireland and the United States. And now I welcome Ronan Tynan.
  