
    Pool Reports by Tal Kopan, San Francisco Chronicle 



Sent:
Reports:




March 23, 202110:19

In-town pool report #1: Good morning 
Good morning. I am your in-town pooler this gorgeous spring day here in D.C.
At this time, there are no scheduling updates ahead of the President's planned departure for Ohio.
Of course if anything changes, I will be sure to let you know.



March 23, 202111:25

In-Town pool report #2: Update on schedule/Colorado 
From the Office of the President:
The President will give brief remarks on the tragedy in Boulder before departing for Ohio this afternoon. We will update the pool with timing on the remarks. He has been receiving regular updates and will continue to be briefed throughout the morning. The President also directed that all flags at the White House be flown at half staff.



March 23, 202112:11

In-Town pool report #2A: Statement timing 
Hello again. I don't have any other details, but I can share that the pool is being told to gather for the President's statement at 12:35 p.m.



March 23, 202112:40

In town pool report 3: awaiting remarks 
Pool is pre-set for remarks in the State Dining Room. It will likely be a quick transition from here to the lawn for M1 departure, so your pooler will do her best to get you the quick news but keeping an eye on the cable networks for replay may help.



March 23, 202112:55

In town pool report 4: Two minute warning 
Two minute warning for the president. We are told this is being streamed live, so I will only send a light recap. Check whitehouse.gov/live
The room is largely empty aside from the podium, two flags, press and staff. Cameras are set up in front of the president while reporters are seated and socially distanced along the side of the room to his left, behind a rope and stanchions. All the curtains are drawn closed. A large portrait of a pensive Abraham Lincoln hangs over the fireplace, behind where President Biden will stand.



March 23, 202113:05

In town pool report 5 
Biden spoke for about 6 minutes, as you saw live. He said "we have to act" and gave his condolences to the survivors and victims.
At the end, as he said "let me be clear" he folded his binder and held it at his side to speak directly to camera.
As he was leaving he responded to a question from Kristen Welker about introducing new legislation that he would have more on that later.



March 23, 202113:10

In town pool report 6: departure 
At 1:05 pm left, Biden left the White House via the South Portico. He waved to pool but did not stop on way to M1.Ignored (or couldn't hear) shouted question about going to Colorado.Outside there was a first dog sighting (I dont know which, I'm sorry) and a small child (held by two adults) under the awning.Accompanied by staff including Psaki.M1 lifted at 1:09.
Handing off to out of town pool, with the exception of the gaggle in flight that I will back up from the White House.



March 23, 202114:12

In town pool report 7: Gaggle underway 
Gaggle began right about 2 pm.
It is underway. Some initial highlights (will send Otter around later). Please check against transcript.
Today Biden will talk about how the Affordable Care Act has changed the lives of millions of Americans. "In Ohio alone, the ACA has cut the state's uninsured rate by half." Xavier Becerra also traveling Carson City Nevada to visit health center
On today's weekly gov call: Zients announced will have 27 million doses allocated to states across channels, 4 million J&J, 2/3 will be going to states and jurisdictions and others to other channels, primarily the pharmacy channel.
In his tenure, Biden has tripled vaccine output from 8.6 million to 27 million
Biden spoke with Gov. Polis of Colorado to offer condolences and support
Q: Shooter's motive?
Psaki: Defer to law enforcement
"The president will get updated as there is additional information to be provided"
On Guns:
"Putting in place common sense gun safety measures has been a passion of the President's since he was in the Senate"
"This will continue to be an issue that he is focused on day in and day out in this administration"
Two bills have passed the House that would improve background checks, he'll continue to advocate, as well as putting in place assault weapons ban, such as legislation from Feinstein and Cicilline
"In terms of the filibuster, his position has not changed"
Executive action?
"We are considering a range of levers, including working through legislation, including executive action … that has been under discussion and will continue to be under discussion"
What was Biden saying about talking to us later in response to a question about new legislation coming on guns?
"I think he was referring to his commitment to continuing to work on gun safety measures. Again, there's a range of levers" legislation moving through congress, that of Feinstein and Cicilline, executive actions under discussion
"This tragedy just happened last night, so I would not expect a new proposal put forward under 24 hours. But we are going to continue to work with Congress" and what we can through legislation and executive action
"There remain a range of options under consideration, and obviously tragedies like last night and the shootings in Atlanta are just reminders of how vital it is to move forward on gun safety measures"



March 23, 202114:28

In-town pool report 7A: More gaggle 
The gaggle with Jen Psaki wrapped after almost 21 minutes.
Here are some further highlights, and I am processing the Otter link to share the full audio. Also just FYI – I will tweet some pictures from earlier from my account @talkopan.
Again, check all quotes against transcript/recording. Quotes are quotes, anything outside of quotes is paraphrased
Q: Travel to Boulder?
Psaki: Nothing to share on that yet
Q: Is there increased urgency for executive action?
Psaki: "The way that he sees is that there a number of levers that any president of the United States can use" as VP was leading the effort
"There's an ongoing process and I think we feel we have to work on multiple levels at the same time"
Q: NATO summit travel?
Psaki: "We are certainly aware of the timing" I know president "would love" to go overseas
"We're going to rely on the advice of our health and medical experts and I don't have anything to preview on the likelihood of the trip at this time"
Q: President attending European council meeting on Thursday, virtually?
Psaki "Yes, I know he's attending, let me venture to get you a little more on the agenda"
Q: No ATF nominee?
"I don't have any update on the nomination, obviously it's an important position and role and one we are eager to have nominated and confirmed, but we are also focused on the steps we can, working with members of Congress… of the administration"
Q: Considering changing policy on unaccompanied minors at the border?
"Well, I think the messaging will continue to be that it is not the time to come, it is not a safe journey to make, that we are turning away people at the border, the majority of people are turned away at the border. But at the same time, we believe it is the humane and moral step to treat and ensure, that these children are in safe places when they come across the border"
Q: By making that point of humane treatment, is there motivation for parents to send kids?
"I think our view is that there a number of factors here that are pushing the families to put their children on buses or to make the journey, including the economic conditions, including crime and corruption, including two hurricanes that hit the region."
"The step we can take and that we have the control over taking, of course, is ensuring we are expediting processing at the border, we are opening new facilities." additional facilities in the coming days and weeks
Q: Pandemic emergency rule (Title 42) still in place, but more families are being accepted? Is that breakdown with Mexico or is the US changing policy?
Psaki: "It is largely an issue of Mexico not having the capacity to accept some of these families, these circumstances are limited."
"It's not a reflection or a prediction of a change in policy"
Q: What's the plan for when the admin will lift that?
"I expect that decision will be made with our health team in the lead and in coordination with the department of health and human services and the department of homeland security"
"Obviously we're still in the middle of a pandemic … I don't think we're at that point in the process"
Q: Readout of last night's meeting with Senate Dems?
Psaki: "The purpose of the meeting was to thank them for their support and efforts in passing the American Rescue Plan" and promise to them he will continue to communicate it to the American people, as he is doing today
He took some questions from members
Q: Punishment for recent hacks?
"I don't have any predictions to make in terms of cost that will be paid for certain hacks, obviously the review is ongoing … I expect we'll have more on that soon"
"I would say weeks not months, but I don't have an update on the timing"
Q: Delays in pandemic checks?
"If someone is a non-filer … then they would be getting payments. … As an issues arise the Treasury Department and IRS look into them as they arise."
Q: Border access for journalists?
"I expect you'll have more details soon, but I expect we'll make more access, likely through a pool."
Q: Update on press conference Thursday?
Likely afternoon, but finalizing details?
Q: How's he preparing for it?
"Looking at your Twitters and seeing what's on your mind."
"He's thinking about what he wants to say, what he wants to convey, where he can provide updates and looking forward to the opportunity to engage with a free press."
Q: ICE, CBP both no nominations?
"Our personnel team is obviously working on all of these important and vital positions, we want to fight the right individuals for a lot of these, for all of these roles, of course" but no update
Q: Shalanda Young for director at OMB?
"No update on that"
Will serve in acting role at first
Q: Should immigrant be leading ICE or CBP?
"I haven't had that discussion with him, I know that when he selected and asked Secretary Mayorkas to serve, his experience, his background, his personal perspective he would bring to the role" were all appreciated.



March 23, 202114:33

In-town pool report 7b: Recording of gaggle 
Here is a link to the gaggle audio, as it was piped back into the briefing room, via Otter:
https://otter.ai/u/mmscaLtTRpvhGiRprv1tg48eFyM
Please holler with questions. I will still endeavor to transcribe quickly just a couple of the newsiest answers.



March 23, 202114:50

In-town pool report 7c: A few quotes 
Here are some reviewed quotes that were the most newsy of the gaggle.
I'll leave the rest to you all to check against the recording, but reach out if you have questions or issues. Also I missed this in my earlier report, but there was a question about Iraq requesting a restart of talks on troops there. Psaki said she would have to check with DoD and NSC before she could answer that question, including to confirm whether that request had been received.
On filibuster:
"In terms of the filibuster, his position remains -- has not changed. He, of course, believes that we should work with Democrats and Republicans to get work done for the American people. Including common-sense gun safety measures. He's also open to hearing ideas. He is not going to allow for obstruction to get work done for the American people. But his preference and priority is working with members of both parties."
New executive action?
"We are considering a range of levers, including working through legislation, including executive actions to address, obviously, not just gun safety measures but violence in communities, so that has been under discussion and will continue to be under discussion."
Do you feel increased urgency for executive action?
"The way he sees is that there are a number of levers that any president of the United States can use, and he as vice president was leading the effort on determining executive actions that could be taken on gun safety measures, it's something that he has worked on, he's passionate about, he feels personally connected to. But there's an ongoing process and I think we feel we have to work on multiple channels at the same time."
Postmaster general is planning rollback of mail services? Will the president fire the board with cause, as Dems ask?
"It doesn't work exactly that way. He has nominated a number of members of the board. The board is responsible for determining who the future leadership is. Obviously he has expressed concerns about the decision-making in the past and the performance at times of the Postal Service, not to speak to the men and women who are serving but the leadership at the top, and those concerns remain."



March 23, 202120:11

In town pool report 8: Arrival/spoke 
President Biden landed in Marine 1 at 8:05 p.m.
He disembarked at 8:07 p.m. and waved to Jill and a grandchild on the balcony.
He waved to pool and jogged a bit.
He stopped to answer questions for less than a minute on the astra Zeneca vaccine and North Korea. Quotes to come. Into the residence before 8:09.
While we were waiting, we spotted Jill Biden on the upper balcony of the residence, and at least one dog appeared to be out there with her. She went inside before coming back out for landing.



March 23, 202120:17

In town pool report 9: Quotes and lid 
Very hard to hear, as always check against TV.
Here's the gaggle from outside. Will tweet pictures @talkopan
Should Americans feel confident in the AstraZeneca vaccine?"I haven't gotten a final report today, we haven't used it at all. We have it available but we haven't used it. I've been gone all day, I don't know what's happened today."
Haven't talked to Fauci about it today?"Not as of today"
Will you give more to Canada/Mexico?"Well that depends on what is finally approved."
North Korea do you consider that to be a real provocation?"No, according to the defense Department, it's business as usual. There's no new wrinkle in what they did."
Does it affect diplomacy at all?Chuckles and walks away.
We have a travel/photo lid. It's been a pleasure -- good night!




  