
    President George W. Bush today announced his nomination of five individuals to serve in his Administration.
The President has nominated James B. Cunningham, of Pennsylvania, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the State of Israel. Mr. Cunningham, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, currently serves as Consul General of the United States in Hong Kong. Prior to this, he served as Deputy Representative of the United States to the United Nations with the rank and status of Ambassador. Earlier in his career, he served as Deputy Chief of Mission in Rome. Mr. Cunningham received his bachelor's degree from Syracuse University.
The President has nominated Neil Suryakant Patel, of the District of Columbia, to be Assistant Secretary for Communications and Information at the Department of Commerce. Mr. Patel currently serves as Assistant to the Vice President for Domestic and Economic Policy. Prior to this, he served as Staff Secretary to the Vice President. Earlier in his career, he served as Assistant General Counsel at UUNET Technologies, Inc. Mr. Patel received his bachelor's degree from Trinity College and his JD from Georgetown University.
The President has nominated Alexander Passantino, of Virginia, to be Administrator of the Wage and Hour Division at the Department of Labor. Mr. Passantino currently serves as Deputy Administrator and Acting Administrator of the Wage and Hour Division at the Department of Labor. Prior to this, he served as Senior Policy Advisor to the Assistant Secretary at the Employment Standards Administration at the Department of Labor. Earlier in his career, he served as an Associate at Hunton & Williams, LLP. Mr. Passantino received his bachelor's degree from Emory University and his JD from the University of Georgia.
The President has nominated Donald G. Teitelbaum, of Texas, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Ghana. Mr. Teitelbaum, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, currently serves as Deputy Chief of Mission in Pretoria. Prior to this, he served as Director of African Affairs at the National Security Council. Earlier in his career, he served as Deputy Chief of Mission in Kampala. Mr. Teitelbaum received his bachelor's degree from the University of Virginia.
The President has nominated Frank Urbancic, Jr., of Indiana, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Cyprus. Mr. Urbancic, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, currently serves as Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary and Deputy Coordinator for Counterterrorism at the Department of State. Prior to this, he served as Senior Advisor for European Affairs at the United States Mission to the United Nations. Earlier in his career, he served as Deputy Chief of Mission in Kuwait. Mr. Urbancic received his bachelor's degree from New York University. He received masters' degrees from City College of New York and The National War College.
  