
    Today, Biden for President announced Jennifer O'Malley Dillon will join the campaign as Campaign Manager. After successfully navigating the campaign through the first series of contests and into a commanding lead in the delegate race, Greg Schultz will turn his focus to organizational planning for the general election and continuing to bolster the campaign's external outreach.
"I am grateful to Greg for his leadership and hard work to help get our campaign where it is today, and I will value his continued input on this campaign," said Vice President Biden. "I am also thrilled that Jen is bringing her considerable talent and insight to this team. She will be a tremendous asset to a campaign that is only growing and getting stronger as we prepare to take the fight to Donald Trump this fall."
"Like so many other Democrats who are unifying behind Joe Biden's character and leadership, I'm excited to join the team at this critical moment," said O'Malley Dillon. "Vice President Biden is turning out voters at record levels and building the broad coalition we need to ensure Donald Trump doesn't get a second term. It's an honor to help make him the 46th President and I'm ready to get to work."
O'Malley Dillon joins the Biden campaign full time after advising the campaign on its efforts in the Nevada caucuses. O'Malley Dillon is a veteran campaign manager, with one of the most credentialed resumes in Democratic campaign politics. O'Malley Dillon managed Beto O'Rourke's 2020 Presidential campaign and served as Deputy Campaign Manager for President Obama's reelection campaign in 2012, where she oversaw the largest field organization in the history of presidential campaigns, voter protection and education, political outreach and the development of data analytics to persuade and mobilize voters.
In 2009, President Obama named O'Malley Dillon his first executive director of the Democratic National Committee, where she built the largest DNC operation in history, housing Organizing for America staff in all 50 states and building the data, analytics and technology infrastructure that became the foundation for President Obama's reelection campaign. She also served as the national co-chair of the 57th Presidential Inauguration and was president of the Democratic National Convention Committee.
In 2008, O'Malley Dillon worked as the 2008 Obama campaign's battleground states director. She has served on five presidential campaigns and worked at every level from State Senate and Mayoral races to Congressional, Gubernatorial, and Senate campaigns.
In 2010, O'Malley Dillon was named to TIME's 40 Under 40, and in 2012 to Fortune's 40 Under 40 Electors.
O'Malley Dillon is a proud mom to her twin daughters and son. She is a native of Boston and a graduate of Tufts University.
  