
    The following listing includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the White House Press Office and not included elsewhere in this issue.
March 3
The President returned to the White House from Camp David, Md.
The President met at the White House with:
—Vice President Walter F. Mondale;
—labor leaders from New York.
March 4
The President met at the White House with:
—Representative Leo C. Zeferetti of New York;
—Frank B. Moore, Assistant to the President for Congressional Liaison;
—Qais Abdul Munim Al Zawawi, Minister of State for Foreign Affairs of Oman.
March 5
The President met at the White House with:
—Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs;
—the Democratic congressional leadership;
—Mr. Moore;
—Charles L. Schultze, Chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers.
March 6
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Hedley W. Donovan, Senior Adviser to the President;
—Representative Joseph L. Fisher of Virginia.
In a ceremony in the Oval Office, the President received the first sheet of Easter Seals, which marked the start of the 1980 Easter Seal Campaign, from Jeanette Alvarado, 8, of San Antonio, Tex., the National Easter Seal Poster Child.
The President participated in a briefing by administration officials on energy and national security given for community and civic leaders in the East Room at the White House.
The White House announced that the President has appointed Lane Kirkland, president of the AFL-CIO, as a member of the Board of Directors of the Federal Prison Industries, Inc. He replaces the late George Meany.
March 7
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Vice President Mondale, Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance, Secretary of Defense Harold Brown, Lloyd N. Cutler, Counsel to the President, Hamilton Jordan, Assistant to the President, Dr. Brzezinski, and Mr. Donovan; —Mr. Moore;
—mayors from the suburbs of Cleveland, Ohio;
—Mary Bitterman, Associate Director for Broadcasting of the International Communication Agency; —Secretary of Education Shirley Hufstedler.
The President transmitted to the Congress the annual report of the National Endowment for the Arts and the National Council on the Arts for fiscal year 1978.
  