
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate four individuals to serve in his administration.
The President intends to nominate Nora Mead Brownell to be a Commissioner of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission for the remainder of a five year term expiring on June 30, 2001 and for an additional five year term expiring June 30, 2006. She is presently a Commissioner on the Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission where she has served since her appointment by Governor Tom Ridge in 1997. Prior to her appointment, Commissioner Brownell acted as Executive Director of the Regional Performing Arts Center in Philadelphia, and served as Senior Vice President of Meridian Bancorp, Inc.'s Corporate Affairs Unit. A native of Erie, Pennsylvania, she attended Syracuse University.
The President intends to nominate Patrick Henry Wood III to be a Commissioner of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission for the remainder of a five year term expiring June 30, 2005. He is currently the Chairman of the Public Utility Commission of Texas. He served as staff member of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission from 1991 to 1993 and as legal counsel to the Chairman of the Texas Railroad Commission. Additionally, he was an engineer with Arco Indonesia and served as an attorney with the law firm of Baker & Botts in Washington, D.C. A Texas native, he is a graduate of Texas A&M University and Harvard Law School.
The President intends to nominate Clark Kent Ervin to be Inspector General of the Department of State. He is presently a Deputy Attorney General and General Counsel in the Texas Attorney General's Office and served as Assistant Secretary of State for the State of Texas from 1995 to 1999. Ervin served former President George H.W. Bush in the Office of National Service from 1989 to 1991. A native of Houston, Texas, he is a graduate of Harvard College, was a Rhodes Scholar and received his law degree from Harvard Law School.
The President intends to nominate Leo S. Mackay, Jr., to be Deputy Secretary of Veterans Affairs. He is currently the Vice President of Bell Helicopter Textron, Inc. for the Aircraft Business Service Unit and was Vice President and Director of Bell-Agusta Product Support from 1998 to 2000. While serving as an officer in the U.S. Navy he was Military Assistant to the Assistant Secretary of Defense for International Security Policy from 1993 to 1995 and was an F-14 fighter pilot from 1986 to 1989. Mackay is a graduate of the U.S. Naval Academy, received a Master's in Public Policy from the Kennedy School of Government and a Ph.D. from Harvard University.
  