
    Mitt Romney today announced the leadership of his Georgia State Finance Team.
"I am proud to announce the leadership of my Georgia Finance Team and the support of so many prominent Georgia business leaders," said Mitt Romney. "Their help will be essential in securing the resources necessary to defeat President Obama this fall. Georgia has been hit hard by President Obama's failed economic policies. Voters are looking for someone who will create jobs, rein in government spending and work to grow the economy. Their help will be essential to spreading this message so we can turn around our struggling economy."
"I am pleased to join with Mitt Romney to help get our country back on track," said Georgia State Finance Chair Eric Tanenblatt. "America has had enough of the broken promises and failed record of the Obama administration. We need a president who has bold conservative solutions to restore America's promise. That man is Mitt Romney. We need his proven leadership in Washington and I will do all I can to get him there."
Leaders Of Mitt Romney's Georgia Finance Team:
Eric Tanenblatt, State Finance Chair, Senior Managing Director, McKenna Long & Aldridge
Fred Cooper, Chairman, Cooper Capital
Chris Hohlstein, Director, Synovus Family Asset Management
Prescott Miller, Managing Director, Round Hill Capital
James McCurry, CEO, PSA Healthcare
Bartow Morgan, CEO, Brand Banking
Robert Sheft, Partner, Roark Capital
Ross Singletary, Founding Partner, Arcus Capital Partners
Jeffrey Sprecher, Chairman and CEO, InterContinental Exchange (ICE)
Prominent Georgia Business Leaders Supporting Mitt Romney:
 James Balloun, Retired CEO, Acuity Brands
Tom Bell, Chairman, Mesa Capital Partners
Joseph Blanco, Partner, McKenna Long & Aldridge
Ulrich Brechbuhl, President and COO, Chamberline Edmonds
John Brock, Chairman and CEO, Coca Cola Enterprises
A.D. "Pete" Corrrell, Chairman Emeritus, Georgia Pacific
James Edenfield, President and CEO, American Software
Cindy Fowler, President and CEO, Presenting Atlanta
Alec Fraser, former President, Turner Properties
Thomas Fricke, CEO, Cartridge World
Michael Gearon, former chairman and President, the Atlanta Hawks
Michael Gearon, Jr., Co-managing partner, the Atlanta Spirit
Joe Goodwin, President, The Goodwin group
Jim Grien, President, TM Capital Corp.
Bill Henagan, Managing Partner, Blueridge International
Doug Hertz, President, United Distributors
Tommy Holder, Chairman and CEO, Holder Construction
Sam Hollis, Senior Director, Cushman and Wakefield
Karole Lloyd, Vice Chair and SE Managing Partner, Ernst & Young
Kelly Loeffler, Owner, Atlanta Dream
Bernie Marcus, Chairman, Marcus Foundation
Ric Mayfield, Managing Director, Private Wealth Management, SunTrust
Clay Newman, Chairman and CEO, Integrated Power Solutions
Tom Noonan, CEO, Joulex
David Perdue, former President and CEO of Dollar General
Oscar Persons, Partner, Burr & Forman
Spence Pryor, Partner, Alston & Bird
Joe Rogers, Jr., Chairman and CEO, Waffle House
David Rubenstein, Cresa Partners
Mit Shah, Senior Managing Principal and CEO
Joel Shapiro, Managing Partner, Timbervest
Rick Smith, Chairman and CEO, Equifax
Jim Stephenson, President and CEO, Yancey Brothers
Richard Stormont, Director, The Stormont Companies
Scott Taylor, President, Carter Real Estate
*Company/business names are provided for identification purposes only.
  