
    One year ago, in my inaugural address, I pledged "perseverance and wisdom in our efforts to limit the world's armaments to those necessary for each nation's own domestic safety." The report which I am transmitting is an account of the actions taken in 1977 by the U.S. Arms Control and Disarmament Agency towards the fulfillment of that pledge.
The Arms Control and Disarmament Agency is the focal point of my Administration's efforts to reach arms control agreements through negotiations and to develop policies which will lead to reduced worldwide reliance on weaponry. This central role was legislated by the Congress seventeen years ago, and it is entirely in keeping with my concept of how these objectives should be pursued.
The arms control policy and goals set forth in this report reflect my own commitment to the achievement of these important objectives. In the nuclear age, when war could bring catastrophic consequences, our national security policy must include efforts to control arms, as well as to provide for our military defense. The two are complementary activities, both necessary to achieve our overall objectives-peace and security for this Nation and the world.
When necessary, we will maintain our security and protect our interests by strengthening our military capabilities. Whenever possible, however, we seek to enhance our security through arms control. Our security and the security of all nations can be better served through equitable and verifiable limits on arms than through unbridled competition. The United States has chosen arms control as an essential means of promoting its security. As we pursue this continuing course, we must convince other nations that arms control is in their interest as well. Their cooperation is vital if balanced arms control agreements are to be achieved.
Ensuring the stability of the nuclear relationship between the United States and the Soviet Union is the most urgent arms control task today. In the longer term, however, I believe that preventing the worldwide proliferation of nuclear weapons may be of equal significance. Other pressing problems, such as the worldwide traffic in vast quantities of sophisticated conventional arms and regional arms buildups, have far-reaching implications for our own peace and security and that of the rest of the world. As such, I have taken steps to restrict U.S. arms transfers and to gain the cooperation of other suppliers in curbing worldwide sales.
The challenge of preventing war—and redirecting resources from arsenals of war to human needs—is the greatest challenge confronting mankind in this last quarter of the twentieth century. It is a challenge I accept.
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
March 22, 1978.
  