
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
March 13
In the afternoon, the President had a telephone conversation with President Hafiz al-Asad of Syria from Air Force One as he traveled to Detroit, MI. In the late afternoon, the President toured the Advance Technology Center at Focus: HOPE.
March 14
In the morning, the President had coffee with Group of Seven Foreign Ministers at the Westin Hotel.
In the afternoon, the President toured the assembly line at Detroit Diesel. In the late afternoon, he traveled to Boston, MA.
In the evening, the President traveled to Nashua, NH, where he remained overnight.
March 15
In the morning, the President traveled to Keene, NH.
In the afternoon, the President toured the Markem Corp. Following a visit to the town square, the President traveled to Ft. Drum, NY.
In the evening, the President met with military personnel who recently returned from Somalia and their families at the home of Ft. Drum Base Commander Gen. David C. Mead. The President returned to Washington, DC, later that evening.
March 16
In the morning, the President met with officers of the National League of Cities. He then met with representatives from Boy Scouts of America.
The President declared a major disaster exists in Kentucky and ordered Federal funds be released to help communities in the State recover from winter storms which occurred from February 9 to 11.
The President also declared a major disaster exists in Delaware and Maryland and ordered Federal funds be released to help communities in those States recover from severe ice storms and flooding which occurred from February 8 to 18.
The President announced his intention to nominate William T. Coleman as General Counsel for the U.S. Army.
March 17
In the afternoon, the President and Prime Minister Albert Reynolds of Ireland went to Capitol Hill where they attended a St. Patrick's Day luncheon hosted by Speaker of the House Thomas Foley.
The White House announced that in the afternoon the President had telephone conversations with President Hosni Mubarak of Egypt and President Hafiz al-Asad of Syria to discuss the Middle East peace process.
The White House announced the withdrawal of the nomination of Stephen J. Solarz to be U.S. Ambassador to India and that the President asked him to serve as the President's Special Representative on Sudan.
The White House announced the appointment of Thomas B. Ross as Special Assistant to the President, Senior Director for Public Affairs at the National Security Council, and Deputy White House Press Secretary.
March 18
The President named Susan Hammer, Fu-Tong Hsu, Bernard Rapoport, Jack Sheinkman, and Paula Stern to the Advisory Committee for Trade Policy and Negotiations.
The President announced his intent to nominate A.J. Eggenberger for reappointment as Vice Chair to the Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board (DNFSB) and Herbert John Cecil Kouts as a member to the Board.
The White House announced the appointment of Stanley Roth as Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for Asian Affairs, Sandra Kristoff as Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for Asia-Pacific Economic Affairs, and Robert L. Suettinger as Director for Asian Affairs at the National Security Council.
The White House announced the President has appointed Matthew Nimetz to serve as his Special Envoy to assist the United Nations' efforts to resolve the differences between Greece and the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia.
  