
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate seven individuals to serve in his administration:
The President intends to nominate Romolo A. Bernardi, of New York, to be Deputy Secretary of Housing and Urban Development. Mr. Bernardi currently serves as Assistant Secretary of Community Planning and Development for the Department of Housing and Urban Development. Previously, he served as Mayor of the city of Syracuse, New York. Mr. Bernardi earned his bachelor's degree from The University of the Americas and his master's degree from Syracuse University.
The President intends to nominate Thomas Hill Moore, of Florida, to be a Member of the Consumer Product Safety Commission, for the remainder of a seven-year term expiring October 2, 2009. Mr. Moore has served as a member of the Commission since 1995. Earlier in his career, he served as Legislative Counsel to Senator John Breaux. Previously, Mr. Moore served as an executive vice president at the National Medical Association. He earned his bachelor's degree from Jacksonville University and his Juris Doctors from the University of Florida.
The President intends to nominate Edwin D. Williamson, of South Carolina, to be Director of the Office of Government Ethics for a five-year term. Mr. Williamson currently serves as a partner with the law firm of Sullivan & Cromwell. He previously served as Legal Advisor to the State Department. He earned his bachelor's degree from the University of the South and his Juris Doctors from New York University School of Law.
The President intends to nominate Lewis W. Lucke, of Texas, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Kingdom of Swaziland. Mr. Lucke currently serves as Mission Director and Reconstruction Coordinator for the United States Agency for International Development, under the supervision of the Coalition Provisional Authority in Baghdad, Iraq. He previously served as the Vice President for Global Communications for the CARANA Corporation. Earlier in his career, Mr. Lucke served as Mission Director for the United States Agency for International Development in Port-au-Prince, Haiti and Amman, Jordan. He earned his bachelor's degree from the University of North Carolina and his master's degree from the American Graduate School of International Management.
The President intends to nominate Earle I. Mack, of New York, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Finland. Mr. Mack has worked for The Mack Company in Fort Lee, New Jersey for forty years and currently serves as the company's senior partner. He earned his bachelor's degree from Drexel University.
The President intends to nominate Jackson McDonald, of Florida, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Guinea. A career member of the Senior Foreign Service, Mr. McDonald currently serves as the United States Ambassador to the Republic of The Gambia. Previously, he served as Deputy Chief of Mission in Abidjan, Cote d'Ivoire. Mr. McDonald earned his bachelor's degree from Georgetown University.
The President intends to nominate John M. Ordway, of California, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of American to the Republic of Kazakhstan. A career member of the Senior Foreign Service, Mr. Ordway currently serves as United States Ambassador to the Republic of Armenia. Prior to this position, he served as Deputy Chief of Mission at the United States Embassy in Moscow, Russia. Mr. Ordway earned his bachelor's degree from Stanford University and his Juris Doctors from the Hastings College of Law.
  