
    
In most states, you can still be fired on the basis of gender or sexual orientation.
In a span of just 12 hours, North Carolina introduced, passed, and signed one of the most extreme anti-LGBT laws in the country. The law overrides existing city and county laws in the state that protect?lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender?people from discrimination.


  "One of the most extreme, anti-LGBT bills we've seen yet." Learn more about NC's new law: https://t.co/vUm5sqe5j7 via @voxdotcom— Sarah McBride (@SarahEMcBride) March 24, 2016

North Carolina is not the only state where the rights of LGBT people are under attack.?
Anti-LGBT laws are on the books in dozens of states—and more are working their way through statehouses across the country. And in still more states, discrimination against LGBT residents is permitted under the law.
LGBT people lack comprehensive nondiscrimination protections under federal law—making the laws of individual states critically important.
But even under state law, there are significant gaps:
1. In 30 states, employees are at risk of being fired based on their gender identity.
2. Employees lack legal protections based on sexual orientation in 28 states.
3. LGBT people are not protected under the law from housing discrimination in 29 states—so if you're an LGBT person looking to rent or buy a house, you're at risk of being turned away because of who you are or who you love.
4. Twenty states do not recognize violence based on sexual orientation or gender identity as hate crimes.
And more anti-LGBT laws are working their way through state legislatures every day.
Right now, Mississippi is considering a bill that would let corporations discriminate against LGBT Mississippians. And Oklahoma lawmakers have filed 26 anti-LGBT bills already this year.
None of the Republicans running for president support full equality for LGBT Americans.
Donald Trump disagreed with the Supreme Court's marriage equality ruling. As governor of Ohio, John Kasich prevented LGBT couples from obtaining birth certificates for their children. And Senator Ted Cruz flat-out opposes non-discrimination protections for LGBT Americans—and has refused to speak out against so-called "conversion therapy" for minors.
These laws have serious consequences for LGBT Americans and their families.
Today, 65 percent of LGBT Americans report experiencing discrimination in their daily lives. Three-quarters of LGBT students say they've been harassed for their sexual orientation.
The statistics on bullying and harassment are even more staggering for transgender Americans. And 1 in 5 have been refused a home or apartment based on their gender identity.
This is why we need comprehensive LGBT equality protections.
What happened in North Carolina is the latest reminder that the fight for LGBT equality is far from over. As Hillary Clinton has said:

We have to keep fighting until every American can not only marry, but also live, work, pray, learn, and raise a family free from discrimination. And Hillary will do just that.
  