
    THE VICE PRESIDENT: That's why she's the First Lady. (Laughter.)
Dr. Jill Biden, I want to thank you for that extraordinary speech and for the introduction and the friendship. You have been -- you know, I see -- and Doug and I see the President and Dr. Biden when the cameras are here and when the cameras aren't. And I will speak of the First Lady to say she is tireless.
She is a full-time educator, and she travels around the world, literally, representing our country and upholding the values that we hold dear for the world to see. And I thank you for that --
THE FIRST LADY: Thanks.
THE VICE PRESIDENT: -- and your friendship.
THE FIRST LADY: Thank you.
THE VICE PRESIDENT: Thank you so very much and for that introduction. (Applause.) Thank you. Thank you.
And thank you also to President Biden. (Laughter.) You can judge a strong man when he has strong women around him. (Laughter and applause.)
And the first Second Gentleman of the United States of America. (Applause.)
So, it is good to see everyone. What an extraordinary thing my eyes behold looking out here.
We have leaders in the United States Congress who are here. Of course, Speaker Emerita Nancy Pelosi among them. (Applause.)
But so many leaders who are here, and among these, the young leaders who are on the stage behind me. (Applause.) A lot to applaud. A lot to applaud.
So during Women's History Month, we celebrate and we honor the women who made history throughout history, who saw what could be unburdened by what had been.
We see the suffragists, the riveters, the marchers; the mothers and sisters and aunts and grandmothers and daughters -- all the giants upon whose broad shoulders we stand.
For generations, women have continued to make incredible progress in the classroom, in the workplace, in the halls of government. And we are all here evidence of that progress.
And we know our fight is far from over.
Like many of you, I have spent the majority of my career fighting to uplift the condition of women and girls in our country -- to fight for their health, their safety, and wellbeing.
And therefore, I know from experience that there are many factors that impact a woman's ability to survive and thrive in America. And one of those factors is the economic empowerment of women.
I don't need to tell anybody here, when we improve the economic status of women, we improve the economic status of families, communities, and our entire nation benefits.
When women are economically empowered, communities are healthier, because, of course, for example, families can afford medical care for a young child or an aging parent.
And when women are economically empowered, communities are safer. And I say that as a former courtroom prosecutor, elected district attorney, and attorney general.
You see, in that career, I focused on crimes of violence against women and children. And there is so much that we need to do still to prevent violence and keep women safe, including to understand the link between economic security and public safety.
You know, a lot of people around here are talking about the importance of public safety, and we all know how important that is. But understand the connections between the issues. Understand that too often, for example, we see women who are facing violence because they simply cannot financially afford to leave an abusive situation, especially when her highest priority will always be to keep a roof over her children's head or food on their table.
So here's the deal: Anybody who says they support public safety and public health must also support women's economic security and wellbeing -- (applause) -- and must necessarily, if they say they stand for those priorities, stand with President Biden and me when we continue, with your help, to fight for things like affordable childcare for all parents. (Applause.) When we fight for good jobs with paid family and medical leave. (Applause.) When we fight for pay equity and access to capital for all people -- (applause) -- including for women entrepreneurs and small-business owners.
These are the connections that one must see and make if they truly believe in contributing to the strength, the wellbeing, and the safety of all Americans.
And ultimately, the priority of women's economic empowerment then is rooted in core economic principles that include basic American values, specifically the ideal of freedom. Not just freedom from violence or want, but freedom to dream with ambition and aspiration. The freedom to determine one's own future, including the fundamental freedom of every woman -- not her government -- to make decisions about her own body. (Applause.)
All these issues are connected. All these issues are connected when we talk about the importance of freedom.
So I'll conclude with this: You all have heard many times me talk about my mother. My niece is here, my mother's granddaughter.
And my mother, your grandma -- (laughter) -- had many sayings. And often she would say to me, "Kamala, you may be the first to do many things, but make sure you are not the last." (Applause.)
Well, in this incredible room there are so many firsts. Far too many to name. And I see so many of you.
And that, as we know, is our charge then. As the First Lady said, we will make sure that none of us are the last. And that will be a measure of our legacy and this moment, which is to keep the path open and ensure that we make it bigger and wider for all those who follow.
And no one fights harder to build a better future for our nation and to lift up women and girls around our country and to secure their basic rights and freedoms than our President, the President of the United States of America, Joe Biden. (Applause.)
  