
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate two individuals to serve in his Administration:
The President intends to nominate Karen P. Hughes, of Texas, to be Under Secretary of State for Public Diplomacy with the rank of Ambassador during her tenure of service. Ms. Hughes is currently a speaker and author, who served as Counselor to the President at the White House. Ms. Hughes has traveled to Afghanistan as part of several delegations representing the United States and the President's commitment to peace and freedom throughout the world. She is also a member of the US-Afghan Women's Council.
Before joining the Administration, she was Director of Communications for the Bush for President campaign. Prior to that, she served then Governor George W. Bush as Director of Communications. From 1992 to 1994, Ms. Hughes served as Executive Director of the Republican Party of Texas. Earlier in her career, she was a news reporter for KXAS-TV in Dallas/Fort Worth, Texas. Ms. Hughes received her B.A. degree in English and her B.F.A. degree in Journalism from Southern Methodist University.
The President intends to nominate Dina Habib Powell, of Texas, to be Assistant Secretary of State (Educational and Cultural Affairs). Upon confirmation, Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice will appoint her Deputy Under Secretary of State for Public Diplomacy. Ms. Powell currently serves as Assistant to the President for Presidential Personnel at the White House. In addition, she has represented the Administration in key forums throughout the Middle East on the President's freedom and reform agenda. Previously, she served as Special Assistant to the President and Associate Director of Presidential Personnel.
Prior to joining the Administration, Ms. Powell was Director of Congressional Affairs and served as senior advisor to the Chairman of the Republican National Committee. Earlier in her career, she worked for then U.S. Majority Leader Dick Armey. Ms. Powell received her bachelor's degree from the University of Texas at Austin. She was born in Cairo, Egypt and speaks Arabic.
  