
    Today, Illinois Comptroller Susana A. Mendoza released the following statement endorsing Joe Biden for President of the United States:
"Growing up in Illinois as the daughter of immigrants, I was raised to believe that public service was about a higher calling. Today, America is faced with a president whose vile bigotry and name-calling knows no bounds – and parents across the country, including myself, are forced to turn the channel and cover our children's ears when Donald Trump is on television. As a mother of a young boy, I know that Donald Trump is not a role model for our children – we shouldn't have to turn the channel when the president comes on television.
"I want my son to have a proven leader who is also a decent, kind, and respectful president. Joe Biden embodies the character and the experience we need to bring our country together to heal after four years of Donald Trump. He was a loyal partner to President Obama. And throughout his entire career, Joe's led with dignity and empathy – writing the Violence Against Women Act, banning assault weapons, and protecting our climate. America needs Joe Biden."
"I'm proud to stand with Joe in the Illinois primary because I know he'll always go to bat for the most vulnerable among us – he always has. Joe's never forgotten where he comes from, and in the White House, I know he'll fight for Illinoisans and all our families."
In 2016, Susana Mendoza was sworn in as Illinois Comptroller after the State, under Governor Bruce Rauner's failed leadership, went without a budget for more than two years. Mendoza successfully managed the State through the worst fiscal crisis in its history – advocating for and delivering greater stability, key legislative reforms, and transparent financial reporting. Before becoming the first Hispanic independently elected to statewide office in Illinois as Comptroller, Mendoza made history as the first woman elected as Chicago City Clerk.
Mendoza joins a growing list of prominent Illinois leaders supporting Biden, including Senators Dick Durbin and Tammy Duckworth; Representatives Brad Schneider, Danny Davis, Mike Quigley, Robin Kelly, and Bill Foster; former Senator and Ambassador Carol Moseley Braun; Chicago Mayor Lori Lightfoot; and state legislators, mayors, and community leaders from across Illinois.
Biden for President has previously announced more than 1,700 endorsements from national, state, and local leaders, including current and former U.S. senators and representatives, governors, state elected officials, community leaders, and national security professionals.
  