
    Pool Reports by Andrew Feinberg, The Independent 



Sent:
Reports:




March 17, 202308:49

VP Pool Report #1 — Taoiseach arrival
Taoiseach Leo Varadkar's vehicle, a black (and presumably armored) SUV, arrived at the VP's residence at 8:40 am ET.
Mr Varadkar and his partner, Matthew Barrett, emerged from the car moments later. The Taoiseach was wearing a dark blue suit with a blue/green-ish tie and white shirt.
They were greeted by the VP and Second Gentleman, who were waiting for them on the front porch of the residence. The VP wore a green suit and green blouse.
All three men had shamrock in the breast pockets of their suit jackets. The VP did not as her jacket lacked the requisite pocket.
After exchanging some words (inaudible to pool) for a moment, all four moved to the porch for photos. No remarks were delivered.
Pool is now holding outside the residence.
On Background from a White House Official:
The Vice President and Second Gentleman will host H.E. Leo Varadkar, Taoiseach of Ireland, and Mr. Matthew Barrett for breakfast at the Naval Observatory. There will be a pool spray at the top for toasts from the Vice President and the Taoiseach.



March 17, 202309:45

VP Pool Report #2 — VP and Taoiseach remarks
Pool was escorted into the VP's residence at 901 am.
After a short sojourn through the first-floor corridors of the 19th Century Queen Anne-style house (built in 1893 and used by the Chief of Naval Operations from 1929 to 1974), pool arrived at the room where breakfast was being served to find the VP and Taoiseach Varadkar at one table, Mr Emhoff and Mr Barrett at another, plus several more occupied round tables.
Standing behind a lectern with the VP seal, VP Harris spoke first and said it was an honor for her and Mr Emhoff to welcome the Taoiseach and Mr Barrett and spoke of the "enduring" relationship between the US and Ireland. She also acknowledged "many dignitaries" in attendance including Secretary of Veterans Affairs Denis McDonough.
The VP also noted that President Biden began the tradition of hosting the Taoiseach for breakfast at the VP's residence when he served as VP.
"This was one of his most particular joy is and as you all know, he is quite exuberant in that joy and I now have caught the bug," she said.
Ms Harris spoke of the "hard-earned and hard-won" peace enabled by the Good Friday Agreement and said it is something the Biden administration takes "quite seriously".
"As President Biden has said, the Windsor framework is an essential step to ensure peace and progress and to ensure that it is strengthened," she added. She continued for a few more minutes before offering a St Patrick's Day toast.
Taoiseach Varadkar spoke next. He thanked VP Harris and Mr Emhoff for hosting him and Mr Barrett.
He said both he and his partner have been "inspired" both as doctors (both are practicing physicians) and members of the LGBT community by Ms Harris' advocacy for marriage equality during the fight over Proposition 8 and for the Affordable Care Act.
"From Stonewall to Sacramento to San Francisco. America has led the way when it comes to LGBT equality. I don't think I would be here today were it not for what America did.
He also noted that Ireland is implementing programs similar to the ACA, including "abolishing hospital charges," "capping the cost of prescription medicines" and "abolishing Doctor fees" for children and seniors.
"So I think on those agendas we have much in common and also much to do this year," he said.
He pointed out that Ireland is celebrating "many anniversaries" in 2023, including the Good Friday Agreement and joining the EU.
"For Ireland, however, one relationship has ensured throughout — our close and deep bond with these United States, and we're always grateful for that," he said. He added that the US has played a central role in the peace process "at critical points when few others had the influence to do so".
The Taoiseach said he was presenting the VP with an Irish silver bell "as a token of our appreciation snd an emblem of the principles that our countries hold dear, Peace and Freedom".
On the Good Friday Agreement, he said the Windsor Framework with the EU "has the potential to restore very good relations between Ireland and the UK and to restore the relations and institutions of the Good Friday Agreement" and open a new chapter in EU-UK relations.
"We're not quite there yet. But I think with good faith on all sides, we'll have that and the help of our … friends here in America," he said.
On Ukraine:
"We stand with them for as long as it takes. Russia's war is a threat to the international order on which we all rely. It's an affront to human decency. And we work together to hold these perpetrators to account."
The VP did not respond to a shouted question about reporting that Ron DeSantis watched a prisoner be tortured when he served as a Navy lawyer at Guantanamo Bay.
As always, check quotes against transcript.
Pool was out at 9:14 am ET.




  