
    Mitt Romney today announced the support of former Attorney General John Ashcroft.
"It is an honor to have the support of Attorney General Ashcroft," said Mitt Romney. "After working with him on the 2002 Winter Olympics, I know that he is deeply committed to serving our country and protecting its citizens and I look forward to his counsel over the coming months."
"The election in November is as important an election as I can remember," said Attorney General Ashcroft. "At home, we face economic and fiscal peril and abroad, we face uncertainty in volatile regions of the world. Our country needs an iron-willed president of integrity to lead us through these troubled times. No other candidate stands out for his executive leadership experience or ability to accomplish difficult tasks as does Mitt Romney.  As a conservative who served as Governor of Missouri during the Reagan revolution, I admire Mitt's record of fiscal responsibility, lower taxes, and defense of traditional values in a politically difficult state for a Republican. I had the opportunity to work with Mitt Romney on issues of national security during the 2002 Winter Olympics and counted him as a trustworthy, effective ally in the fight against terror while he was Governor of Massachusetts.  I know that the lives and liberties of the American people will be secure with him as President. I am grateful for the opportunity to support him and urge all voters who want to restore America to her preeminent place of leadership in values, strength and prosperity to support him now and in November."
Background On Attorney General John Ashcroft:
John Ashcroft has had a long and distinguished history in public service. From 2001 to 2005, he served in President George W. Bush's cabinet as Attorney General. Ashcroft served one term as a U.S. Senator from Missouri and two terms as Missouri's Governor. From 1977 to 1985, Ashcroft served as Missouri's Attorney General. From 1973 to 1974, Ashcroft was the Missouri State Auditor. He currently serves as the founder of The Ashcroft Group, LLC.
  