
    Pool Reports by Ashley Parker, The Washington Post 



Sent:
Reports:




March 25, 202209:03 CET

Travel Pool #1
The pool arrived at the Chief of Mission Residence in Brussels — where President Biden is staying — at 8:14 local. We have been swept and are now holding, waiting for Biden’s joint statement with European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen.



March 25, 202210:56 CET

Travel Pool #2 
President Biden's (closed press) bilateral meeting with European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen began around 9:50 am local at the Chief of Mission Residence in Brussels, and 15 minutes later, at 10:05 am local, both Biden and von der Leyen entered the ballroom here for a joint statement. Biden spoke first.
His remarks were livestreamed on the White House website, and here is an OTTER link, https://otter.ai/u/IQ11FmcogAMFj9Pj864LAZkKWlk [otter.ai], courtesy of the WSJ's Tarini Parti.
Here is a transcript, as well, of most of Biden's remarks, but please check against audio/official transcript:
"As we announce a new groundbreaking issue between European Union and the United States first, we're coming together to reduce Europe's dependence on Russian energy."
Referring to Russian energy, Biden said Putin has used "the profit to drive his war machine."
"That's why earlier this month I announced the United States would ban all imports of Russian energy and made it clear that the American people would not be part of subsidizing Putin's unjustified war in Ukraine." At the time, I noted that we were able to take this step when others could not because the United States is a net exporter of energy…. and the United States welcomed the European Union's powerful statement earlier this month committing to rapidly reduce its dependence on Russian gas."
"This initiative focuses on two core issues. One: helping Europe reduce its dependency on Russian gas as quickly as possible. Secondly, reducing Europe's demand for gas overall. To address the first point, United States together with our international partners — they're going to work to ensure an additional 15 — one, five —15 billion cubic meters of liquefied natural gas, LNG, for Europe this year, and as the EU works to discontinue it, buying Russian gas, well before 2030, it will also work to ensure additional EU market demand for 50 billion cubic meters of LNG from the United States annually by 2030. To accomplish this, the European Commission will work with a member states to store gas across the continent, to build more infrastructure to receive LNG and to take steps to increase the efficiency of gas."
Biden said this effort "will occur in a way that is consistent with — not in conflict with — the zero, net zero climate goal we should remember we are shooting for."
"We're going to have to make sure that families in Europe can get through this winter, and the next, while we're the building infrastructure for diversified, resilient, and clean energy future. At the same time, this crisis also presents an opportunity. It's a catalyst, a catalyst that will drive the investments we need to double down on our clean energy goals and accelerate progress toward our mid-zero emissions future."
"Madame President, I know — I know that eliminated Russian gas will have costs for Europe. But it's not only the right thing to do, from a moral standpoint. It's going to put us on a much stronger strategic [inaudible]."
"I'm proud to announce that we've also reached another major breakthrough in data flows… And today, we've agreed to unprecedented protections for data privacy and security for our citizens. This new arrangement, the Privacy Shield framework, will promote growth and innovation in Europe and the United States and help companies, both small and large, compete in the digital economy… This framework underscores our shared commitment to privacy and data protection and to the rule of law. That's going to allow the European Commission to once again authorize the transatlantic [inaudible] to help facilitate $7.1 trillion in economic relationships with the EU."
When Biden finished speaking, he bent down behind the lectern to adjust a small footstool for von der Leyen. "I'm earning my salary here!" Biden quipped.
We are now holding at the Chief of Mission Residence, before heading to the airport.



March 25, 202211:27 CET

Travel Pool #3
At 11:23 am, we are rolling to Brussels National Airport, where President Biden will depart for Poland.



March 25, 202211:50 CET

Travel pool #4
At 11:39 am local, President Biden and pool arrived at Brussels International Airport. Biden boarded Air Force One without speaking to the press.
At 11:49 am local, we are about to be wheels up shortly to Rzeszów-Jasionka Airport in Poland.



March 25, 202214:31 CET

Travel Pool # 5
Air Force One was wheels down at Poland's Rzeszów-Jasionka Airport at 2:03 pm local. President Biden has several events here on or around the airport. Rzeszów is in the southeast part of the country, and roughly an hour drive from the border with Ukraine.
In flight, principal deputy press secretary Karine Jean-Pierre and national security advisor Jake Sullivan gaggled.
Below is some background, passed along from the White House, on the 82nd Airborne Division, whose troops Biden will greet at one of his stops here:
The summary below captures the combined training, civic, and cultural engagements that members of Task Force 82 (TF82) have completed during their time in Poland in support of Operation New Normal. The first main body of TF82 arrived in Poland o/a 06 February 2022.
Training: TF82 Soldiers have emphasized interoperability and combined arms training with both our Polish and British Allies over the past six weeks. Highlights of these training events include:
• Combined Arms Live Fire Exercises incorporating paratroopers from the 82nd Airborne Division's 3rd Brigade Combat Team and the Polish 19th Mechanized Brigade.
• Combined mounted maneuver training, which involved American and British paratroopers gaining familiarity with Polish BMP-variant vehicles.
• Cold weather and mountain training, which culminated with 82nd paratroopers earning the Polish Mountain Badge.
Civic Engagements: TF82 engaged early and often with the local communities surrounding our unit headquarters throughout southeast Poland. These engagements are designed to foster closer ties between our service members and the civilian communities of our Polish hosts. Highlights include:
• At least 3x visits to local orphanages; our brigades are exploring ways to establish ongoing support relationships with these orphanages that will exist after our redeployment to Fort Bragg, North Carolina.
• At least 2x engagements with local youth JRTOC-like organizations, where our paratroopers provided training on basic soldier tasks such as first aid, infantry tactics, and physical fitness.
• At least 2x local commemorations of military heroes or memorial days, including the 103rd Anniversary of Colonel Leopold Lis-Kula, the father of the modern Polish Army.
Cultural Engagements: Our paratroopers and soldiers have fully availed themselves of Poland's rich cultural heritage and taken multiple opportunities to learn the deep history of this country. Highlights of these endeavors include:
• Multiple visits to the Auschwitz-Birkenau concentration camp site, designed to demonstrate the painful legacy and human atrocities of the Holocaust.
• Visits with the bishops of 3x Catholic diocese, as well as with the Archbishop of Przemysl (the same city where the Department of State established a Welcome Center for American citizens seeking to leave Ukraine through Poland).
• Multiple staff rides and cultural visits to both Warsaw and Krakow; staff rides, especially to Warsaw, focus on the devastation that was inflicted on Polish cities during World War II.
• An upcoming mass for American service members to celebrate Palm Sunday in the Rzeszow Cathedral.
Aerial Port of Debarkation ("APOD") Mission Overview
NATO countries and partners around the world unite at this airport to facilitate expedited deliveries of aid to Ukraine. The mission of the 435th Contingency Response Group, alongside U.S. Army forces, is to establish airfield operations in support of this aid to Ukraine. U.S. forces are deployed to multiple NATO nations to assure Allies and deter further aggression in the region.
435th Contingency Response Group Activities
The 435th Contingency Response Group (CRG) assessment team (9 Airmen) arrived at Rzeszow-Jasionka Airport (EPRZ) in late January to assess the capability of a sleepy regional airfield. Historically, the airfield received approximately 5-7 flights per day from civilian airlines. Little did this town know that its airport would become the arrival location for the 82d ABN.
The CRG (TF Wolf) deployed over 100 people on 3 Feb to receive and download the 82d ABN. Once that mission was complete, TF Wolf returned 90% of its team to home-station due to the completed task. Four days after redeployment to Ramstein, TF Wolf was again called to Rzeszow-JasionkaAirport, but this time it was to provide critical aid to Ukraine.
Now the CRG and Army brothers and sisters are running the most critical node for aid to Ukraine and its sovereignty. The CRG provides Command and Control, aerial port operations, and aircraft maintenance. Since 26 Feb the 435th CRG has received 298 missions, 29 types of aircraft, and aid from 32 countries weighing in at 13.6 million pounds (6,807 tons). Our team works extremely close with our Host-Nation airport counterparts and our military counterparts from the Polish CRG and will continue to do so until our mission is complete.
APOD Equipment Support:
• The CRG has approximately 70 personnel who make up an "advanced team" to establish airfield operations to support international aircraft and continue receiving the delivery of aid.
o The CRG has teams comprised of Air Force professionals who are responsible for receiving and maintaining aircraft, unloading cargo and ensuring safe and secure procedures as guests on this Airport.
o They also have teams of logistics personnel who are experts in safely processing the millions of pounds of aid.



March 25, 202214:44 CET

Travel Pool #6
Just flagging that President Biden’s schedule has been flipped, because Polish President Andrzej Duda has been delayed. (Social media reports say his plane had to make an emergency landing in Warsaw because of mechanical difficulties, but the White House has not confirmed this on the record).
Either way, this now means Biden will first greet service members of the 82nd Airborne Division, and then receive the humanitarian briefing, which Duda will join if he arrives in time.



March 25, 202215:07 CET

Travel Pool #7
President Biden — wearing a black mask — walked down the steps of Air Force One at 2:52 pm local at Rzeszów-Jasionka Airport in Poland.
While we were waiting for Biden, eagle-eyed pool photographers pointed out anti-aircraft missiles at the ready on the grounds of the airport.
Here is a list of Biden’s greeters, per the White House:
Minister Mariusz Błaszczak, Poland’s Minister of DefenceAmbassador Marek Magierowski, Poland’s Ambassador to the U.S.General Tomasz Piotrowski, Commander of the Armed Forces Operational CommandGeneral Jarosław Gromadziński, Commanding General of the 18th Division GeneralAmbassador Mark Brzezinski, U.S. Ambassador to Poland
At 2:58 pm local we are rolling to Biden’s first event, near the airport.



March 25, 202215:21 CET

Travel Pool #8
President Biden visited a barber shop at the G2A Arena right next to the Rzeszów-Jasionka Airport, where roughly 14 service members in the 82nd Airborne Division were sitting in folding chairs awaiting hair cuts. Three service men sat in chairs in the front of the room getting shorn by their fellow service men.
Biden came in and sat down in one of the folding chairs behind two of the servicemen, who turned around but did not seem especially surprised to see the president.
Biden then went around the room and greeted everyone individually.
"You guys must have just gotten your haircut!" Biden said, observing their closely-shorn hair. He asked if they were getting cuts again and joked there would not be much to take off.
Biden then walked up to one of the barber chairs, where one of the service men suggested that maybe Biden should finish the haircut. Biden laughed and said that was the last thing the young man would want.
We are now awaiting Biden in a cafeteria, where six long tables of service members have finished a pizza lunch, and are also waiting for Biden.



March 25, 202215:32 CET

Pool report #9
Passing on from the White House — we are currently awaiting Stop 2:
Upon arrival to the G2A Arena Centrum Wystawienniczo–Kongresowe Województwa Podkarpackiego, the President and the Secretary of Defense will be greeted by their tour guides:

Major General Christopher LaNeve, Commanding General, 82nd Airborne Division
Command Sergeant Major David Pitt, 82nd Airborne Division

Tour Stop 1:
The President and the Secretary of Defense visit servicemembers of the 82nd Airborne Division at the Barbershop
Tour Stop 2:
The President and the Secretary of Defense receive an overview of the Combined Operations Integration Cell (COIC).
In attendance:

General Christopher G. Cavoli, Commanding General, U.S. Army Europe-Africa
Lieutenant General John S. Kolasheski, Commanding General, V Corps
Lieutenant General Christopher T. Donahue, Commanding General, XVII Airborne Corps and Fort Bragg
Brigadier General Brandon R. Tegtmeier, Deputy Commanding General, 82nd Airborne Division Colonel Adam Cobb, Chief of Staff, 82nd Airborne Division
Colonel James Stultz, G3, Operations Commander, 82nd Airborne Division
MAJ Jacob Pete, Headquarters and Headquarters Battalion, 82nd Airborne, 11A, Infantry Officer

Tour Stop 3:
The President and the Secretary of Defense greet with 1LT Caroline Batalias, HHT 5-73 CAV Company Commander and 1SG Joshua Cocchiarella, A Troop, 5-73 CAV, First Sergeant



March 25, 202216:07 CET

Pool report #10
President Biden next visited a cafeteria of the G2A Arena Centrum Wystawienniczo–Kongresowe Województwa Podkarpackiego.
The room was full of paratroopers in the 82nd Airborne Division, who had just finished a pizza lunch and were still seated at long white tables. Hershey Kisses and M&Ms with the presidential seal were also stacked in little piles on the tables.
"Who brought the pizza?" Biden said as he walked in. (The White House had provided the pizza, a staffer said).
"Pizza any good?" Biden asked. "Don't stop eating because of me."
Biden then thanked the paratroopers: "I just came by to say thank you. Thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you."
"Thank you very much for all you do," he said. Biden described the U.S. military as the "finest fighting force in the history of the world" — saying several times that this assessment was "not hyperbole."
Biden then began telling a story about his late son, Beau, recounting visiting Baghdad and searching a room not dissimilar from this one to find Beau, who was stationed there. When he finally located Beau, Biden said he noticed Beau wasn't using his actual name, and asked what was going on. Beau told his dad that the name "Biden" could be a hassle where he was, and so was instead going by "Hunter" — Beau's late mother's maiden name. (It is also the name of Beau's brother, and appears in other Biden family name combinations).
Noting the food, Biden then said, "Well, if you're starting to eat, I'm going to sit down and have something to eat." And he then sat down in the middle of a table, grabbing a piece of pepperoni and jalapeño pizza. The jalapeños made his eyes water, so he dabbed at them with a napkin and someone got him a glass of water.
Biden began regaling his lunch partners with a story about his family in Ireland. Your pooler could not make out any of the specifics, but overheard the words "grandfather" and "great grandfather."
Biden then stood up, taking his half finished slice with him, and walked around the rest of the room. He posed for photos, including taking some selfies himself.
He was in the cafeteria for about 20 minutes, though your pool was kept at a distance and did not hear the majority of the (what seemed like) small talk.
We are now waiting for the final event here.



March 25, 2022
[APP Note: Report #11 does not exist or was not received by the APP.]


March 25, 202216:48 CET

Pool report #12
Per a wrangler — your pool did not actually see this: President Biden arrived at the equipment hangar at Rzeszów–Jasionka Airport in Poland at 4:35 pm local, where was greeted by Polish President Andrzej Duda. Biden and USAID Administrator Samantha Power then greeted one another.
This humanitarian assistance briefing — Biden’s last event here before departing for Warsaw — just started and is being streamed live on the White House website here: https://www.whitehouse.gov/live/



March 25, 202217:33 CET

Pool report #13
Your pool did not receive a translation of President Duda's remarks — which he delivered in Polish — at the humanitarian briefing. But the NYT's Mike Shear has generously sent along an Otter transcript of a translation from cable news. It is v rough, so do with it what you will, but it at least seems to convey the overall gist of Duda's comments.
OTTER of Duda:
"First and foremost, thank you for coming here to fresh off to the original patch which is very close, which is located directly to the Polish Ukrainian border. Thank you for coming to the place where this influx of refugees to Poland is the biggest your presence here, Mr. President, first of all, is sends a very big sign of unity. This is a huge sign of support end to Atlantic unity unity with my country with Poland. It demonstrates great friendship between Poland and the United States and a very profound Alliance. This is an evidence of great support and care for our mutual relations but also things of importance to me. It is a sign and a message that you care about the security of Poland. today. Mr. President, you met with US soldiers who are deployed here and who watch over our security. They also help in this very difficult work, which is receiving millions of refugees are crossing the border to our country right now. But first and foremost, they are guarding the security of the Polish border and guarding their security also off the entire Euro Atlantic community of the hell of NATO because today the Eastern Flank of NATO and I do not hesitate to say this. I also said it yesterday at NATO Summit. This is a front line today the eastern flank. I'm very happy to have you here, Mr. President, because as I said, your presence here sends a great signal and evidence of unity. Unity within NATO demonstrates a huge support and also a big significance attached by the United States. To the stability and world peace, to reinstating the peace where difficult situations are happening in places where somebody resorts to acts of aggression against other democratic and free nations, as it is happening today against Ukraine, where the Russian aggression unfortunately happening for a month now is effect. But it prisons mr. president here today in the city of threshold, is also a great sign of support to us support in terms of humanitarian assistance, which day is provided to the refugees from Ukraine but also it is provided to us Poles who are receiving guests because this is the name we want to apply to them. We do not call them refugees. They're our guests. Our brothers or neighbors who immigrated here today are in a very difficult situation where 12 million people have fled their houses by the war. By the Russian attacks. More than 3.5 million have already fled abroad. They cross different borders but first and foremost, they have crossed the border with Poland. Today we have got 2.5 million people in Poland. And the number is growing all the time. So the number I'm exceeding 2 million right now. It's still growing. And all signs are that if the Russian aggression continues, those numbers will continue to grow. So first and foremost, this it gives me an opportunity to extend my gratitude to mr. president to our guests from the United States but also to the NGOs. Both from my country starting from the organizations which are present here at this table today. But also, I want to express my gratitude to all NGOs, Polish NGOs who are involved, but I also like to thank the US organizations. A big number of them is already present in Poland and a lot of them since assistance to our country in this context. I'm so much grateful to you, Mr. President, for your support, but also like to ask you to convey my personal words of things to the First Lady of the United States to Mrs. Joe Biden, that your spouse, Mr. President, and please convey very heartfelt greetings from my wife to your wife. Both ladies had a conversation a couple of days ago, my wife and gave an account of the situation in Poland. Both ladies exchange their views on the possibilities of health. Then my wife paid a visit to the United States and from the United States she brought in order to support Ukraine in order to support agreeing the hospitals and also centers here in Poland, which treats children from Ukraine. Also, when did children from Ukraine, she brought from the United States a number of medical equipment and medicines from the United States. So thank you so much for this very swift assistance. Thank you so much. And please convey these words of routings and these words of things to your wife and also please convey very heartfelt wishes from my wife to your wife. So ladies and gentlemen, this presents a huge challenge. This assistance is something unprecedented because within a couple of weeks, more than 2 million people have come to our country. We have never experienced anything like that throughout our history. This is the first time that I would also like to thank all my compatriots who have opened their hearts and opened their houses who have welcomed refugees, but as I said, first and foremost, our neighbors or brothers from Ukraine, who are in a difficult position today who are in need today. And all of us want to help them so much. They are staying in private houses and they're staying in different facilities. Very often these people are very much affected by the war winded persons alle persons, many of them have undergone and mental trauma after the experiences they had. Recently we have received people without any belongings to Poland, they fled from bombs. So the situation is extremely difficult. That is why we are so much thankful for any help and assistance because this is what we very much need today. And our product we are doing everything we can with huge dedication and devotion NGOs have also demonstrated huge energy, dedication, also volunteers, firefighters, so there was a lot of assistance from NGOs from churches, Catholic church, but also other churches in our country and religious communities. That there was a lot of support offered from all different sides, also from abroad. And once again, we're so much grateful for that this presents a huge challenge to us. But it is also a huge challenge to the whole free world as we understand it, and we all have to live up to it. Once again, thank you for this visit. And I'm so happy and delighted with our invitation that we can have. All the authorities in Poland are involved in providing assistance. It's not only the government NGOs and volunteers but also local governments. Tomorrow, Mr. President, you will meet refugees in Warsaw that also the Prime Minister of the Polish government will be present there Mr. metocean benefit scheme the mayor of Warsaw Mr. rehfeld szatkowski will be there and they will share with us there all the activities that are being conducted in Poland in order to live up to this difficult situation in order to solve the problem. So once again, we are delighted with the facility we're paying Curiouser and very a warm welcome to our country."
And, per the White House, in attendance for a briefing on humanitarian efforts for Ukraine: President BidenPresident Andrzej Duda of PolandSecretary of State Antony BlinkenJakub Kumoch, Head of the International Policy Bureau at Poland's Presidential ChancelleryUSAID Administrator Samantha PowerGemma Connell, Head of Office Poland, UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA)Jakob Kern, Emergency Coordinator for the Ukraine Crisis, UN World Food Programme (WFP)Grzegorz Gruca, Vice President, Polish Humanitarian Action (PAH)Sebastien Lambroschini, Ukraine Country Director, Agency for Technical Cooperation and Development (ACTED)Aneta Ostasz, Office of the UN High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR)Cordian Szwarc OFM, Caritas PolskaGrażyna Ignaczak-Bandych, Chief of the Chancellery of the President of PolandAmbassador Marek Magierowski, Ambassador of Poland to the U.S.Ambassador Mark Brzezinski, U.S. Ambassador to PolandKristina Kvien, Chargé d'Affaires, U.S. Embassy KyivStephen Allen, Disaster Assistance Response Team (DART) Leader, USAIDJim Hope, Mission Director, USAIDRenee Lariviere, State/Populations Refugees and Migration Refugee CoordinatorJake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security AffairsAmanda Sloat, Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for Europe, NSCRobin Brooks, Director for Balkans and Central Europe, NSC
The pool is now holding on Air Force One, as President Biden finishes the closed press portion of the briefing.



March 25, 202217:54 CET

Pool report #14
President Biden boarded Air Force One at Poland’s Rzeszów-Jasionka Airport at 5:53 pm local, without speaking to the press. We are wheels up shortly for Warsaw.
And here is an Otter audio link to President Duda’s translated remarks, thanks to Voice of America’s Anita Powell. (It’s the whole humanitarian assistance roundtable, but the Duda part is in English).
https://urldefense.com/v3/__https://otter.ai/u/5FM3CexP1yGsoHynuns7tz8K7...$



March 25, 202219:02 CET

Travel pool #15 
At 6:39 pm local, Air Force One touched down at Warsaw Chopin International Airport, and President Biden disembarked at 6:54 pm local.
Per the White House, Biden was greeted by:
Małgorzata Paprocka, Minister in the Office of the President of PolandB. Bix Aliu, Deputy Chief of Mission, U.S. Embassy WarsawCol Eric Trychon, Defense Attaché, U.S. Embassy Warsaw
The White House also passes on that the president tested negative for COVID-19 today.
We are now rolling to the RON.



March 25, 202219:32 CET

Pool report #16
And at 7:15 pm local in Warsaw, we have a lid.
Also, unaware of the lid: The throngs of people lining the lobby of the Marriott here trying to glimpse President Biden.



March 25, 202220:27 CET

Pool report #17 — late add 
A little throwback to Rzeszów, courtesy of the White House:
Before departing Rzeszów-Jasionka Airport, the President participated in a photo line with U.S. Embassy Kyiv staff and officials aiding the Ukraine response.
As he boarded Air Force One at Rzeszów-Jasionka Airport, the President was greeted by:Ewa Leniart, Governor of PodkarpackieWładysław Ortyl, Speaker of the Podkarpackie AssemblySGT Jacob White, 82nd Airborne DivisionSSG Eric Louive, 82nd Airborne DivisionSPC Kevin Maya, 82nd Airborne DivisionSSG Alexis Gradillagomez, 82nd Airborne DivisionTSgt Taylor Thornton, 82nd Airborne Division




  