
    
Rep. Tom Graves, who represents northwestern Georgia, explained on Facebook yesterday that he'd planned to keep his vote for President secret:
If you've seen me in Georgia recently, you'll recall that I planned to keep my vote for president private. I thought doing so might help unite the Party once this divided primary ended.
But that  was before the real consequences of stopping Donald Trump had become apparent:
In recent days, however, the election has taken some concerning turns, and I've decided that it could be more helpful to share my thoughts with you ahead of tomorrow's Georgia primary, especially if you haven't voted yet.
Whom is he picking at this crucial juncture? Marco.
They go way back as fighters for conservative solutions:
Of all the candidates, I feel I know Marco the best. We were both named Legislative Entrepreneur of the Year by FreedomWorks back in 2008 when he was Speaker of the Florida House and I was a member of the Georgia House. We were both underdogs in the 2010 elections and won. We've worked together in Congress on serious issues and even played a game of flag football from time to time.
Marco would be a great president. He knows himself and his faith. He has a proven conservative record, from his consistent support for a strong military to his pro-life advocacy to passing a key provision that did real damage to Obamacare. He leans into tough issues regardless of the personal or political consequences, and he communicates in a way that would grow the Republican Party and unite our country.
Here's his message to Trump supporters:
If you're a Trump supporter in Georgia's 14th District, I can relate to your frustration and your deep desire to end business as usual in American politics and government. I respect that and agree with you. But it might be worthwhile to consider some of the same questions that I have had about Trump.
With all the noise and emotion that surrounds any election, it's easy to get distracted and caught up in the moment. But this decision is more than a moment, it's our history that has yet to be written. As the scribes of our time, the pen is in our hands.
If you live in Georgia, go vote today for Marco, and if you have friends or family there, encourage them to!
Here's his full Facebook post:


Dear friends, If you've seen me in Georgia recently, you'll recall that I planned to keep my vote for president...
Posted by Tom Graves on Monday, 29 February 2016

  