
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
February 28
In the afternoon, the President traveled from Salt Lake City, UT, to Los Angeles, CA. He returned to Salt Lake City in the evening, arriving after midnight.
March 1
In the evening, the President and Hillary Clinton returned to Washington, DC.
March 2
The President announced his intention to nominate Thelma J. Askey, Jennifer Anne Hillman, and Stephen Koplan as Commissioners on the U.S. International Trade Commission.
The White House announced that the President will travel to Santiago, Chile, April 16-20 for a state visit and to attend the second Summit of the Americas.
March 3
In the evening, the President traveled to New York City, and later, he returned to Washington, DC, arriving after midnight.
The President announced his intention to nominate Arthur A. McGiverin to serve as a member of the Board of Directors of the State Justice Institute.
The President announced his intention to nominate Robert H. Beatty, Jr., to serve as a Commissioner on the Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission.
The President announced his intention to appoint Miles Lerman as Chair and member of the U.S. Holocaust Memorial Council.
The President announced his intention to appoint John H. Catlin, Pamela Young-Holmes, and Donna L. Sorkin to serve as members of the Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board.
The President announced his intention to appoint Norman R. Augustine as Principal Officer and member of the Board of Governors of the American National Red Cross.
The President announced his intention to appoint Marvin F. (Bud) Moss to serve as a member of the National Historical Publications and Records Commission.
The President declared a major disaster in Kentucky and ordered Federal aid to supplement Commonwealth and local recovery efforts in the area struck by a severe winter storm on February 4-6.
The President declared a major disaster in New Jersey and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by a severe winter coastal storm, high winds, and flooding on February 4-9.
The President and Hillary Clinton announced that Cambridge University physicist Stephen Hawking will be guest lecturer at the second Millennium Evening at the White House on March 6.
March 4
The President announced his intention to nominate Joseph W. Westphal to be Assistant Secretary of the Army for Civil Works at the Department of Defense.
The President requested emergency funding from Congress to support military operations in Bosnia and Southwest Asia and meet urgent needs created by recent natural disasters.
The White House announced that the President will travel to Westport, CT, and Cincinnati, OH, on March 10.
March 5
The President announced his intention to nominate Shirley Elizabeth Barnes to be Ambassador to Madagascar.
March 6
The President announced his intention to nominate Charles R. Stith to be Ambassador to Tanzania.
The President announced his intention to nominate Arthur Levitt, Jr., as Chair and Commissioner of the Securities and Exchange Commission.
  