
    Dr. Stever and distinguished scientists from both the private as well as the public sector:
This is a great occasion, and I am delighted to participate in the signing of these two messages.
Since its beginning, America has derived great, great benefits from the inventiveness and creativity of its people. From Benjamin Franklin's first experiments with electricity to the most recent discoveries in space-age medicine, research and development have been crucial elements in our Nation's remarkable growth. They have never been more important than they are at the present time.
Science and technology are daily becoming more and more vital for the peace and security of our country and for the world at large. It is no exaggeration to say that the future well-being of our Nation depends on putting our best minds to work now to solve the problems of tomorrow.
In recent years we have made major investments in research and development and this investment has paid rich dividends in economic growth, in the quality of our lives, and in the strength of our defense, but we must do more.
The budget which I recently submitted to the Congress in January of this year is one measure of the importance that I personally attach to a continued national investment in science and technology. In it, I requested $24.7 billion for research and development activities, an increase of 11 percent over the current fiscal year.
It focuses very special attention on research and development for energy and defense and our basic research. It continues or increases support in agriculture, space, health, as well as other areas that show promise in meeting the challenges that we face.
At the same time, we must make sure that we have scientific and technological expertise at the highest levels of government. To do this, I have submitted legislation to establish an Office of Science and Technology Policy in the Executive Office of the President.
It is vital that the Congress act promptly and positively on this proposal and on my 1977 fiscal year budget recommendations. Let us make certain that science, engineering, and technology will continue to play a very major part in assuring our future strength and prosperity.
It is a pleasure now to sign the message to the Congress and hopefully--and I think we have good reason to believe that Congress will act on this legislation and the office will be established as soon as the legislation has been signed into law.
Thank you very much.
  