
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate six individuals to serve in his administration and has designated one individual to serve.
The President intends to nominate Grant D. Aldonas to be Under Secretary of Commerce for International Trade. He is currently the Chief International Trade Counsel for the Senate Finance Committee and was a Partner with Miller & Chevalier from 1986 to 1997. Aldonas served as Director of South America and Caribbean Affairs at the Office of the United States Trade Representative from 1984 to 1985 and as Special Assistant to the Under Secretary of State for Economic Affairs from 1983 to 1984. He is a graduate of the University of Minnesota and received his J.D. from the University of Minnesota Law School.
The President intends to nominate William Gerry Myers, III to be Solicitor of the Department of the Interior. He is currently an attorney with Holland & Hart in Boise, Idaho, and was the Executive Director of the Public Lands Council. He served as the Deputy General Counsel for Programs at the U.S. Department of Energy from 1992 to 1993 and served as Assistant to the Attorney General at the Department of Justice from 1989 to 1992. Myers is a graduate of the College of William and Mary and received his law degree from the University of Denver College of Law.
The President intends to nominate John F. Manning to be Assistant Attorney General for the Office of Legal Counsel. He is currently the Michael I. Sovern Professor of Law at Columbia Law School in New York, New York. From 1991 to 1994 he served as Assistant to the Solicitor General of the United States and was an Attorney-Adviser in the Office of Legal Counsel at the Department of Justice from 1986 to 1988. He is a graduate of Harvard College and Harvard Law School.
The President intends to nominate Shinae Chun to be Director of the Women's Bureau of the Department of Labor. She is currently the Managing Director of the ITR Corporation in Chicago, Illinois, and was Director of the Illinois Department of Labor from 1991 to 1999. Chun was Director of the Illinois Department of Financial Institutions from 1989 to 1991 and was Special Assistant to the Governor of Illinois for Asian American Affairs from 1984 to 1989. She is a graduate of Ewha Women's University in Seoul, Korea, and received a Master's degree from Northwestern University.
The President intends to nominate Carl W. Ford to be Assistant Secretary of State for Intelligence and Research. He is the President of Ford and Associates, a consulting firm specializing in Asia and the Middle East. He served as Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for International Security Affairs and Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Near East and Asian Affairs concurrently from 1991 to 1993 and served concurrently as Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for International Security Affairs and Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for East Asia and Pacific Affairs from 1989 to 1991. He was a professional staff member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee from 1979 to 1985 and is a former member of the CIA. Originally from Hot Springs, Arkansas, he is a veteran of the United States Army and received both his undergraduate and Master's degree from Florida State University.
The President intends to nominate Jeanne L. Phillips to be Representative of the United States of America to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development with the rank of Ambassador. She has most recently been the Executive Director of the 54th Presidential Inaugural Committee. Phillips was President of Jeanne Johnson and Company, Inc., in Dallas, Texas, from 1981 to 1994 and was Managing Director of the Dallas office of Public Strategies, Inc., from 1995 to 1998. Originally from Texas, she is a graduate of Southern Methodist University.
The President has designated Larry Massanari to be Acting Commissioner of the Social Security Administration. He is currently the Regional Commissioner of the Social Security Administration in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.
  