
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate three individuals to serve in his administration:
The President intends to nominate R. Hewitt Pate of Virginia, to be Assistant Attorney General (Antitrust Division). Mr. Pate currently serves as the Acting Assistant Attorney General (Antitrust Division), where he also previously served as Deputy Assistant Attorney General. Prior to joining the Department of Justice, he practiced law at Hunton & Williams where he was a partner with the firm's antitrust team. While at Hunton & Williams, he was involved in litigating cases related to regulation of the competitive process, including antitrust, patent, trademark and other business torts. Earlier in his career, he clerked for Supreme Court Justice Anthony Kennedy, former Supreme Court Justice Lewis F. Powell, Jr. and Judge Harvie Wilkinson III, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit. Mr. Pate is a graduate of the University of North Carolina and earned his law degree from the University of Virginia.
The President intends to nominate Helen R. Meagher La Lime of Florida, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Mozambique. A career member of the Senior Foreign Service, Ms. La Lime currently serves as Deputy Chief of Mission at the American Embassy in Rabat, Morocco. Prior to this assignment, she was the Director of the Office of Central African Affairs in Washington, D.C. Her previous foreign assignments include Deputy Chief of Mission in N'Djamena. She also served as Principal Officer and Consular Officer in Zurich, and as a Consular Officer and General Services Officer in Warsaw. Earlier in her career, she served as a Consular Officer in Bern and Stuttgart. Ms. La Lime is a graduate of Georgetown University and earned her master's degree from the National Defense University.
The President intends to nominate Eric M. Javits of New York, for the Rank of Ambassador during his tenure as United States Representative to the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons. Mr. Javits currently serves as the U.S. Permanent Representative and Ambassador to the Conference on Disarmament in Geneva, for the U.S. Mission in Geneva. Mr. Javits is a graduate of Columbia College and earned his law degree from Columbia Law School.
  