
    NOMINATIONS SENT TO THE SENATE:
Kenneth J. Braithwaite, of Pennsylvania, to be Secretary of the Navy, vice Richard V. Spencer.
Matthew P. Donovan, of Virginia, to be Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness, vice Robert L. Wilkie, resigned.
Alma L. Golden, of Texas, to be an Assistant Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development, vice Ariel Pablos-Mendez.
Joseph Ryan Gruters, of Florida, to be a Director of the Amtrak Board of Directors for a term of five years, vice Albert DiClemente, term expired.
Christopher T. Hanson, of Michigan, to be a Member of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission for the term of five years expiring June 30, 2024, vice Stephen G. Burns, resigned.
Beth Harwell, of Tennessee, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Tennessee Valley Authority for a term expiring May 18, 2024, vice Virginia Tyler Lodge, term expired.
Peter M. McCoy, Jr., of South Carolina, to be United States Attorney for the District of South Carolina for the term of four years, vice Cheryl A. Lydon, resigned.
Victor G. Mercado, of California, to be an Assistant Secretary of Defense, vice James H. Anderson.
Donald Lee Moak, of Florida, to be a Governor of the United States Postal Service for a term expiring December 8, 2022, vice Alan C. Kessler, term expired.
Ronald Mortensen, of Utah, to be an Assistant Secretary of State (Population, Refugees, and Migration), vice Anne Claire Richard.
Brian Noland, of Tennessee, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Tennessee Valley Authority for a term expiring May 18, 2024, vice Ronald Anderson Walter, term expired.
John L. Ratcliffe, of Texas, to be Director of National Intelligence, vice Daniel Coats, resigned.
Anna Maria Ruzinski, of Wisconsin, to be United States Marshal for the Eastern District of Wisconsin for the term of four years, vice Kevin Anthony Carr, term expired.
Barbera Hale Thornhill, of California, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Singapore.
David Christian Tryon, of Ohio, to be Chief Counsel for Advocacy, Small Business Administration, vice Darryl L. DePriest, resigned.
Dana T. Wade, of the District of Columbia, to be an Assistant Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, vice Brian D. Montgomery.
Leon A. Westmoreland, of Georgia, to be a Director of the Amtrak Board of Directors for a term of five years. (New Position)
WITHDRAWAL SENT TO THE SENATE:
Elaine A. McCusker, of Virginia, to be Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller), vice David L. Norquist, resigned, which was sent to the Senate on November 13, 2019.
  