
    Politico: Police chiefs back Ketanji Brown Jackson for Supreme Court[3/14/22]

"A major police chiefs organization is throwing its support behind President Joe Biden's nominee to the Supreme Court, Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson. In a letter sent to the Senate Judiciary Committee on Monday, the International Association of Chiefs of Police urged senators to confirm U.S. Circuit Court Judge Jackson to the high court…The IACP is the largest professional association for police leaders and includes 31,000 members in more than 165 countries. Jackson has also been endorsed by the Fraternal Order of Police, dozens of police chiefs and sheriffs, and 83 Republican and Democratic former attorneys general."

Fraternal Order of Police: FOP National President Patrick Yoes Statement on Nomination of Ketanji Brown Jackson to SCOTUS[2/25/22]

"From our analysis of Judge Jackson's record and some of her cases, we believe she has considered the facts and applied the law consistently and fairly on a range of issues. There is little doubt that she has the temperament, intellect, legal experience, and family background to have earned this appointment. We are reassured that, should she be confirmed, she would approach her future cases with an open mind and treat issues related to law enforcement fairly and justly. We wish her well as the confirmation process begins."

National Association of Black Law Enforcement Executives: "NOBLE Applauds Ketanji Brown Jackson, First Black Woman Ever Nominated for the U.S. Supreme Court -[2/28/2022]

"…Throughout her career, Judge Jackson has demonstrated deep knowledge and respect for the law, balanced judgment, and unwavering commitment to justice. She is eminentl qualified to serve on the highest bench in the land."

Associated Press: Top law enforcement officials support Jackson for high court{3/7/2022]

"Dozens of the nation's top law enforcement officials have signed a letter released Monday urging the U.S. Senate to confirm Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson to the Supreme Court…Those named in the letter represent the nation's biggest and busiest police departments and courts."

Fox News: Supreme Court: Ketanji Brown Jackson nomination endorsed by 83 former state AGs[3/7/22]

"More than six dozen Republican and Democrat former state attorneys general endorsed President Biden's nominee to serve on the Supreme Court, Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson, touting her 'extensive' experience and her 'deep understanding of law and its impact' and urging the Senate to approve her nomination 'as quickly as possible.'"

NBC News: Loretta Lynch, former DOJ officials urge Jackson confirmation to Supreme Court[3/10/22]

"Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson got an endorsement for her Supreme Court nomination from 59 former Justice Department officials, including former Attorney General Loretta Lynch and former acting Attorney General Sally Yates."

  