
    STATEMENT OF ADMINISTRATION POLICY
(SENT 3/20/92)(House)(Waxman (D) CA and Kleczka (D) WI)
The Administration does not object to House passage of H.R. 3698, which amends certain alcohol, drug abuse, and mental health research and services programs. The Administration, however, will work with the Conference Committee on H.R. 3698 (and its Senate-passed companion, S. 1306) to address a number of concerns about the bill.
In particular, H.R. 3698 is inconsistent with the Administration's proposal to reorganize the Alcohol, Drug Abuse, and Mental Health Administration (ADAMHA). That proposal would enhance the targeting of services to people most in need. It would also improve mental, behavioral, and addiction research by consolidating ADAMHA's research activities within the National Institutes of Health, thereby facilitating the exchange of scientific results. The Administration will work with the Conferees to have its ADAMHA reorganization proposal — which is contained in S. 1306 — included in the Conference Report.
In addition, the Administration will work with the Conferees to address a number of other concerns about H.R. 3698. For example, the bill would:

—   Create a number of new, unnecessary categorical grant programs. Not only is this inconsistent with the President's National Drug Control Strategy, but it would lead to a fragmented patchwork of "micro-grants", which would duplicate existing authorities and be costly and burdensome to administer. The Administration prefers to direct treatment resources according to the need for treatment (as identified by Statewide Treatment Plans) and hold States accountable for meeting those needs.
—   Establish a series of new set-asides, earmarks, and State funding mandates. Such requirements are inconsistent with the fundamental purpose of a block grant — to allow States the flexibility to design programs tailored to their needs.
—   No longer prohibit the use of Alcohol, Drug Abuse, and Mental Health Services Block Grant funds for needle exchange programs. The Administration is opposed to this type of intervention. There is no evidence that such programs reduce the incidence of HIV infection. Making sterile needles available to HIV drug users only encourages more drug use. 
  