
    SEDONA, Ariz. – In three new television ads released by Bernie Sanders' campaign today, U.S Rep. Raúl Grijalva makes the case for Sanders as an "authentic" "change agent" who has not only stood up to Wall Street, "he's gotten in their face." The new spots – two English and one Spanish – are set to =air in Arizona.
"I support Bernie Sanders for one simple reason: he is authentic. If he gives his word, it is done. The values that Bernie has are the values of this country," Grijalva, co-chair of the Congressional Progressive Caucus, says in "Valores," a Spanish-language ad. "The values of working hard, the values of equality, the values that everyone has an opportunity. These are American values. The positions that he has in this campaign are the best of any other candidate, Republican or Democrat."
"I'm supporting Bernie Sanders for the simple reason that the American people are craving a change," Grijalva explains in "Change Agent." "Bernie's responded to that craving by laying out a program and being bold. He's a change agent – has been for 33 years. He represents a change and a message that many of us have been longing for awhile."
In the third ad, "Bull," Grijalva argues that Sanders is the only candidate who has "already stood up to Wall Street." Arizona was devastated by Wall Street's greed in the housing crisis, Grijalva explains.
"I think Bernie's already said, 'I'm not going to take your money.' They know that you're not getting bull from him. And it's time Wall Street paid their fair share. And when you make it central to your theme when you're running for president, you not only have stood up to them, you've gotten in their face," Grijalva says.
Sanders will hold rallies in Flagstaff on Thursday, in Tempe and Tucson, Grijalva's hometown, on Friday, and in Phoenix on Saturday. Arizona will award 75 delegates when Democratic Party voters here go to the polls next Tuesday.
To watch Valores, click here.
To watch Change Agent, click here.
To watch Bull, click here.
  