
    The following listing includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the White House Press Office and not included elsewhere in this issue.
March 8
The President met at the White House with Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs.
March 10
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Frank B. Moore, Assistant to the President for Congressional Liaison;
—Vice President Walter F. Mondale;
—members of the National Association of State Departments of Agriculture. The President transmitted to the Congress the 1978 annual report of the Community Services Administration.
March 11
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Mr. Moore;
—James T. Mcintyre, Jr., Director of the Office of Management and Budget;
—Representative Peter W. Rodino, Jr., of New Jersey and Mayor Thomas H. Cook, Jr., of East Orange, N.J.;
—Rocco Arizzi, 1980 National Poster Child for the Muscular Dystrophy Association;
—Representative Robert A. Young of Missouri;
—Representative Robert Garcia of New York.
The President transmitted to the Congress the first annual report on the Status of the Weatherization Assistance
Program.
March 12
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare Patricia Roberts Harris, Secretary of Housing and Urban Development Moon Landrieu, Secretary of Education Shirley Hufstedler, Secretary of Agriculture Bob Bergland, Secretary of Transportation Neil Goldschmidt, Eugene Eidenberg, Deputy Assistant to the President for Intergovernmental Affairs, Stuart E. Eizenstat, Assistant to the President for Domestic Affairs and Policy, Alonzo L. McDonald, Jr., Assistant to the President, and Mr. Mcintyre;
—Stansfield Turner, Director of Central Intelligence, and Dr. Brzezinski;
—Secretary of the Treasury G. William Miller, Alfred E. Kahn, Advisor to the President on Inflation, Charles L. Schultze, Chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers, and Mr. Eizenstat.
The President participated in a briefing on administration policies and programs given for county farm bureau presidents from Ohio in Room 450 of the Old Executive Office Building.
The President signed Executive Order 12198, "Prescribing Amendments to the Manual for Courts-Martial, United States, 1969 (Revised Edition)," which amends the rules of evidence applicable to courts-martial to make them conform as closely as possible to the rules applicable to criminal trials in Federal civilian courts. The text of the Executive order is printed in the FEDERAL REGISTER of March 14, 1980.
The President transmitted to the Congress the 13th annual report of the U.S.-Japan Cooperative Medical Science Program for Calendar Year 1979.
March 13
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Mr. Moore;
—former President Gerald R. Ford;
—a group of Republican Senators and Representatives;
—a group of Democratic Senators and Representatives.
The President announced that he will nominate James B. King for reappointment as Chairman of the National Transportation Safety Board for a 2-year term. King has been Chairman of the NTSB since 1978.
The President announced the appointment of William J. Beckham, Jr., Deputy Secretary of Transportation, as Alternate U.S. Representative to the NATO Committee on the Challenges of Modern Society.
March 14
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski:
—Vice President Mondale, Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance, Secretary of Defense Harold Brown, Hedley W. Donovan, Senior Adviser to the President, Lloyd N. Cutler, Counsel to the President, and Dr. Brzezinski;
—Mr. Moore;
—the Cabinet.
The President announced the appointments of Margaret McKenna and Michael Bakalis as Deputy Under Secretaries of Education.
The President left the White House for a weekend stay at Camp David, Md.
  