
    A retired auto worker and a new U.S. citizen on why they're for Hillary Clinton.


Joanne Barnes
Detroit, Michigan
Retired auto worker
What issue is most important to you this election?
Social Security. I'm 62, and I still feel like I've got a lot of life and a lot of volunteering to do—and I still gotta get paid. Saving our pensions, saving social security, paying our student loans.
Was there a particular moment when you decided to get involved in politics?
The 2008 auto bailout. After everything that we invested in the auto industry, to have it come to that. That's when I got heavily involved and realized the seriousness of this situation.
Why are you supporting Hillary?
She's a sister. I don't mean African American—a sister meaning a female that understands my pain. Who understands labor and then that your kids—once they grow up, you know—they're still getting paid minimum wage. She's in touch with being a parent. She's got more to offer because she is a mother. She feels that mother-child bond, and she's a new grandmother, so that triples how she feels about children and their welfare. I like everything about Hillary. I like her strength even though she went through some challenges. She stood strong, stood firm as a woman. She carried the banner that much higher.


Khodr Farhat
Dearborn, Michigan
Student at Henry Ford College
What was it like the first time you voted?
I came to America as an immigrant seven years ago when I was 14, and I became a citizen a few years ago. The first time I voted was the election of 2014—the local election—and I voted in the primary this year. And I'll be voting in every election from now on. Practicing this democratic role is essential for us as citizens to express our views, and it's a very important thing to practice voting. We have to be active players.
Why are you voting for Hillary?
She's the most qualified. She was first lady for eight years, senator, secretary of state. She knows what's going on in the country and the world. And we need somebody who accepts everybody. America is all about diversity, immigrants—it's not about excluding people. We need it to be united, always and forever.
What in your own life has influenced the way you think about politics?
I was born blind. When I immigrated, I didn't speak the language, and I didn't know anything about the U.S. It was a very challenging thing. ... I was able to learn the language and become a citizen. And now I use that motivation in my schooling; I'm a 4.0 student.
I'm so proud to live in America, a country that gave me everything. I'm involved in local politics: I'm running for the Dearborn Board of Education in November. I'm so proud to give back to the country that gave me everything I needed; that gave me opportunity, gave me dignity. I always say: I wish nothing but the greatest for America. God bless America.
  