
    
  "I do encourage [Rubio] to get behind Ted Cruz"

HOUSTON, Texas – Conservative champion Mike Lee endorsed Ted Cruz for President solidifying support from one of the most respected members of the U.S. Senate.  Lee's backing comes at a pivotal time when conservatives are increasingly coalescing around Cruz with the race becoming a two-man contest with Donald Trump.

Breitbart: Cruz is Lee's Choice for President
Sen. Mike Lee endorsed Ted Cruz as his choice to become the next president of the United States Thursday afternoon Lee appeared at a campaign rally with Cruz in Cora Gables, Florida. Lee said that Cruz is "unstoppable," hinted that other senators will soon endorse him, and called on Marco Rubio to drop out of the presidential race.
The Utah Senator is well-regarded as one of the brightest voices for constitutional conservatism in the Senate. He and Cruz have maintained a strong friendship since arriving on Capitol Hill. The two have fought together for a pro-Liberty, pro-Constitution agenda in Washington.
Newsmax: Lee: Cruz is a Tireless Defender of the Constitution
Republican presidential candidate Ted Cruz snared his first endorsement from a U.S. Senate colleague on Thursday when Senator Mike Lee of Utah backed him for the party's nomination.
"Ted Cruz has been a tireless defender of the Constitution and the founding principles that have made this the greatest country the world has ever known," said Lee, who, like Cruz, is a former Supreme Court clerk. "Ted is a leader with a proven record of fighting for our conservative values and for the issues that matter most to Americans. He has shown time and again that he is willing to stand up to Washington. Ted is an authentic fighter who will ensure that poverty is temporary instead of tolerable, that hardworking families will have real opportunities to rise and he will put an end to the special perks and privileges for the wealthy and well-connected.  America deserves a president who is principled, positive and proven – I believe that describes Ted Cruz and why I am proud to endorse him for President of the United States."
.@SenMikeLee presser yesterday endorsing Ted Cruz #CruzCrew pic.twitter.com/3sJ6kMwEol
— Chris Wilson (@WilsonWPA) March 11, 2016

Daily Mail: Lee Endorses Cruz: We Don't Have to Settle Anymore
'It's time for us to recognize that we don't have to settle anymore,' Lee said, speaking to reporters in the 'spin room' set up for tonight's Miami GOP debate.
The endorsement, Cruz's first from the Senate, will allow Cruz to dodge one of Donald Trump's favorite attack lines – that the Texas lawmaker is universally despised on Capitol Hill – but will also be a blow to Sen. Marco Rubio's struggling campaign.
'I'm sending the signal that it's time to unite,' Lee said. 'The time has finally come, the time is finally at hand when we Republicans need to unite behind one leader.' Lee said that he had informed Rubio of his decision in a 'private conversation' as the two talk regularly.
Lee then suggested that the Florida senator drop out of the presidential race.
'If Sen. Rubio were asking me that, I would encourage him and I do encourage him to get behind Ted Cruz,' Lee said.
.@SenMikeLee in the #GOPDebate spin room to endorse @tedcruz. Says it's time for party to unite. pic.twitter.com/kQp9JEOAzk
— Hallie Jackson (@HallieJackson) March 10, 2016

IJ Review: Cruz Takes a Major Step Forward with Lee Endorsement
Ted Cruz's campaign to unify anti-Trump conservatives is about to take a major step forward on Thursday, as he's expected to earn his first endorsement from a sitting U.S. Senator.
Cruz has earned the public support of Senator Mike Lee of Utah, according to BuzzFeed News, which first reported the news. The nod could play a key part in helping Cruz lock up a decisive margin in Utah, which votes on March 22 and is winner take all if a candidate clears 50%.
Cruz and Lee have been allies on numerous issues for conservatives over the past few years, including the fight against Obamacare and religious liberties issues.
  