
    The invasion of Afghanistan by the Soviet Union and the continuing interference by the Soviet Union in the internal affairs of that country constitute an unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security, foreign policy, and economy of the United States. An overwhelming majority of the U.N. General Assembly, including countries of varying political and religious persuasions, economic strength, and geographical circumstance, have joined in a condemnation of the Soviet Union's aggression.
In response to the Soviet action, the President has taken certain national defense measures. He has also imposed a number of restraints on normal economic, cultural, and political exchanges with the Soviet Union. These have included an embargo on grain and other agricultural products, an embargo on phosphate shipments, and the application of more rigorous restrictions on the export of high technology and other strategic commodities.
With respect to the Moscow summer Olympics, the President has announced that neither he nor the American people would support the participation in the Olympics by the U.S. Olympic Team, and he has urged U.S. businesses not to participate in or contribute to the holding of the summer games in Moscow.
The President is now taking additional steps to make clear the United States Government's firm opposition to participation in the Moscow summer games. He has today directed the Secretary of Commerce to take the following actions:
1. To deny all pending validated license applications for goods and technology to be used in support of or in connection with the summer Olympic games in Moscow;
2. To revoke all outstanding export licenses for Olympic-related exports that have not already been shipped;
3. To impose validated license controls on all exports not now requiring validated licenses to be used in support of or in association with the summer Olympic games in Moscow. No such licenses shall be granted;
4. To prohibit other transactions and payments associated with all Olympic related exports. Among other transactions, the order will bar NBC from making any further payments or exports under its contracts relating to the United States television rights for the Olympic games. (NBC has previously announced that it would not exercise these rights if no United States team took part in the games. )
  