
    Sebelius Becomes 10th Former Obama Cabinet Member to Support Biden, Endorsing His Plan to Protect and Build on Obamacare
Today, former Secretary of Health and Human Services Kathleen Sebelius, the 44th Governor of Kansas, released the following statement endorsing Joe Biden for President of the United States:
"Poll after poll shows that health care is the one issue that's closest to people's hearts, minds, and lives. People vote on it, fight for it, live and die because of it. Yet from the day that Donald Trump was elected, he has been trying to rip health care away from tens of millions of Americans. There is only one candidate for president today who can stop him; who can not only beat Trump, but bring us together to make quality health care accessible to everyone – not years from now, when it may be too late, but as quickly as possible. That candidate is Joe Biden.
"I was in the Administration when Joe got the key votes needed to pass Obamacare, covering 20 million uninsured Americans and freeing 100 million from fears they'd be denied coverage or be charged more for a preexisting condition. That healthcare law was the first major reform since Medicare and Medicaid passed in the mid-1960s. It's time to build on that reform, not discard it. Joe has a real plan to lower costs, increase choice and competition, and get every American the health care coverage they deserve — right away.
"At this time of an emerging health crisis, it's more important than ever to have an experienced leader as president who listens to the scientists, believes in health care for all, and can bring the country together to deal with the challenges ahead.
"That leader is Joe Biden, and I hope you'll join me in fighting for him."
Secretary Sebelius joins nine other former members of President Barack Obama's cabinet in endorsing Biden, affirming the Vice President's role as a skilled leader and trusted partner to our 44th president, and building on his historic, strong showing on Super Tuesday this week.
Biden for President has previously announced more than 1,500 endorsements from national, state, and local leaders, including current and former U.S. senators and representatives, governors, state elected officials, community leaders, and national security professionals.
  