
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate seven individuals to serve in his administration.
The President intends to nominate Charles S. Abell to be Assistant Secretary of Defense for Force Management. He is currently a Professional Staff Member at the Senate Armed Services Committee and was a member of the Office of Legislative Liaison of the Secretary of the Army from 1989 to 1992. A twenty-six year veteran of the U.S. Army, he is a graduate of the University of Tampa and received his Master's degree from Columbus University.
The President intends to nominate Maureen Patricia Cragin to be Assistant Secretary of Veterans Affairs for Public and Intergovernmental Affairs. She is currently Director of Congressional Relations for Navy and Marine Programs at Raytheon Company and served for five years as the Director of Communications for the U.S. House of Representatives Committee on Armed Services. Originally from Maine, she is a graduate of the U.S. Naval Academy and a thirteen year veteran of the U.S. Navy.
The President intends to nominate Donald Burnham Ensenat to be Chief of Protocol of the Department of State. He currently is affiliated with the law firm of Locke Liddell & Sapp in New Orleans, Louisiana. He served as the Director of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation from 1989 to 1992 and held the post of U.S. Ambassador to Brunei from 1992 to 1993. He is a graduate of Yale University and received his law degree from Tulane University.
The President intends to nominate Walter Kansteiner to be Assistant Secretary of State for African Affairs. He is presently a Partner at The Scowcroft Group. He served as Deputy White House Press Secretary for Foreign Affairs and as the Director of African Affairs at the National Security Council under former President Bush, and he was the Director for Africa on the Secretary of State's Policy Planning Staff at the State Department from 1989 to 1991. He received a bachelor's degree from Washington and Lee University, a Master's degree in International Economics from the American University School of International Service and a Master's of Theological Studies from the Virginia Theological Seminary.
The President intends to nominate David A. Sampson to be Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Economic Development. He is currently the President and CEO of the Arlington Chamber of Commerce in Arlington, Texas and also serves as the Chairman of the Texas Council on Workforce and Economic Competitiveness. He is a graduate of David Lipscomb University, received a Master's of Divinity from the New Orleans Baptist Theological Seminary and a Doctorate of Ministry from Abilene Christian University.
The President intends to nominate David S.C. Chu to be Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness. He is currently the Vice President responsible for RAND's Army Reasearch Division and Director of the Arroyo Center. He served as Assistant Secretary of Defense for Program Analysis and Evaluation from 1988 to 1993 and as Director of Program Analysis and Evaluation at the Department of Defense from 1981 to 1988. He has received the Department of Defense Medal for Distinguished Public Service, the Bronze Palm and the Silver Palm. Mr. Chu received both his undergraduate degree and Ph.D. from Yale University.
The President intends to nominate Mark D. Weinberg to be Assistant Secretary of Housing and Urban Development for Public Affairs. He is currently the Director of issues Management for The McGraw-Hill Companies and was Manager for Marketing Communications and Special Events for the U.S. Postal Service from 1994 to 1999. He served as Director of Public Affairs in the Office of Former President Ronald Reagan from 1989 to 1991 and as Special Assistant to the President and Assistant Press Secretary for former President Reagan from 1981 to 1989. Originally from Cleveland, Ohio, he is a graduate of George Washington University.
  