
    Today, the White House launched the "Help Is Here" tour to communicate directly and clearly with Americans about how the American Rescue Plan is helping them and their families, and making sure they understand how to utilize benefits available to them.
To kick off the tour, President Biden delivered remarks on his plans to launch an all-hands-on-deck effort to implement the American Rescue Plan and announced that we will reach 100 million shots and 100 million checks in 10 days, making it clear to the American people that help is here and hope is here — in real, tangible ways.
Additionally, Vice President Harris and the Second Gentleman traveled to Las Vegas, Nevada to visit a vaccination site and food relief organization to reiterate the immediate help the Administration is delivering. On the other coast, the First Lady was in Burlington, New Jersey visiting an elementary school and emphasizing the rescue plan's relief for schools and students. And, Transportation Secretary Pete Buttigieg visited a vaccine distribution center in Landover, Maryland.
As part of the tour, Biden-Harris Administration officials will continue traveling across the country, speaking with local press, mobilizing coalition of bipartisan mayors and governors, and directly engage communities, and more to show the American people how the American Rescue Plan helps families, small businesses, schools, and more.?
Read more about the "Help Is Here" tour below: 
"Help Is Here" Tour Kickoff 
NBC News: Biden: U.S. will reach 100M shots ahead of schedule as millions of stimulus checks go out 
"President Joe Biden said Monday that the United States will reach his goal of administering 100 million coronavirus vaccination shots ahead of schedule, hitting the milestone as 100 million stimulus checks go out to Americans under his Covid-19 relief package ... Biden will kick off the "Help is Here" tour Monday afternoon with remarks at the White House about the plan's implementation."
CBS News: Biden touts direct checks ahead of American Rescue Plan tour 
"President Biden repeated his message that 'help is here' on Monday, speaking briefly on the implementation of his $1.9 trillion COVID-19 relief package as he, Vice President Kamala Harris and their spouses prepare to depart on a nationwide tour to promote the plan to the American people."
Reuters: Promising people vaccine shots and cash payments, Biden kicks off stimulus tour 
"With a promise of 'shots in arms and money in pockets,' President Joe Biden on Monday kicked off a week of promotion and travel to herald and explain the $1.9 trillion pandemic relief bill he signed into law last week to help the country move past the COVID-19 pandemic. Biden and a slate of advocates including Vice President Kamala Harris and first lady Jill Biden are being deployed to various states and to television this week as part of what the White House is calling the 'Help Is Here Tour' to tout measures that include a $1,400 check for most U.S. households."
Associated Press: VP Harris, Jill Biden hit the road to promote relief plan 
"President Joe Biden kicked off the White House's effort to highlight the benefits of his huge COVID relief plan Monday, declaring that 'hope is here in real and tangible ways' as his administration began fanning out across the country to promote the new spending ... The road show — dubbed the 'Help is here' tour by the White House — began Monday with Harris heading to a COVID-19 vaccination site and a culinary academy in Las Vegas and first lady Jill Biden touring a New Jersey elementary school."
Axios: Inside the Biden-Harris battleground blitz 
"This week's seven-state swing by the first and second families is just the beginning: The White House is mapping a multi-week campaign — in red and blue states — to sell the COVID stimulus ... Team Biden has broken each day into themes emphasizing different benefits of the bill, according to an administration official familiar with the plans."
Sirius XM: Cedric Richmond on Biden, Harris Cross Country Tour to Promote COVID-19 Relief 
Cedric Richmond, Senior Advisor to President Biden and Director of the White House Office of Public Engagement, joins Julie Mason to discuss the passage of The American Rescue Plan and what's next on Biden's to-do list.
Vice President and Second Gentleman in Las Vegas, Nevada 
Las Vegas Review-Journal: Harris arrives in Las Vegas to tout COVID relief bill 
"Vice President Kamala Harris touched down in Las Vegas on Monday, where she visited a vaccination clinic at UNLV and will speak at an event at the Culinary Training Center in North Las Vegas. Harris' trip was one part of a larger push by officials in President Joe Biden's administration to tout the benefits of the recently passed American Rescue Plan, the $1.9 trillion COVID-relief package passed by Congress and signed into law last week."
Las Vegas Sun: Vice president in Las Vegas today to promote economic recovery plan 
"Vice President Kamala Harris is visiting Las Vegas today to tout the $1.9 trillion American Rescue Plan, the economic recovery act to help the country climb out of the economic crater caused by the pandemic. Las Vegas is a dubiously ideal first stop on Harris' tour promoting the stimulus package. Nevada has been one of the hardest-hit states economically, with unemployment soaring to a record 28.2% in April as business shutdowns shattered the gaming and hospitality industries."
ABC Las Vegas: Vice President Kamala Harris, Second Gentleman visiting UNLV, Culinary Academy
"Vice President Kamala Harris and her husband Doug Emhoff have arrived at UNLV with Gov. Sisolak. They are making an appearance at the vaccination clinic on the campus. After visiting UNLV, Emhoff stopped at Three Square food bank. He toured the facility and thanked volunteers who were packaging food. Emhoff also met with 3 members of the community for a discussion facilitated by Brian Burton, president and CEO of Three Square. A father of six shared his story, telling Emhoff that his children have been struggling with school."
CBS Last Vegas: VP Harris in Las Vegas for Biden administration 'Help is Here' events 
"Vice President Kamala Harris arrived in Las Vegas around 11:15 a.m. Monday as part of a two-city stop for the Biden administration's 'Help is Here' tour While in Las Vegas, the Vice President Harris toured the vaccination clinic at UNLV around 12:00 p.m. Vice President Harris also visited the local Culinary Academy this afternoon to learn about their training programs."
First Lady in Burlington, New Jersey 
USA Today: Jill Biden tells New Jersey 'Help is here' 
"First lady Jill Biden travelled to New Jersey Monday, where she delivered the administration's 'Help is Here' message about the benefits of the recently enacted $1.9 trillion relief plan."
Philadelphia Inquirer: Jill Biden came to a South Jersey school as her husband hits the road to sell the $1.9 trillion stimulus 
"First lady Jill Biden came to a South Jersey elementary school Monday to kick off a nationwide 'Help is Here' tour touting the impacts of the new $1.9 trillion COVID-19 relief package. President Joe Biden and the first lady are traveling across the country on a public relations blitz to celebrate passage of the major legislation signed into law last week. President Biden is coming to Delaware County on Tuesday."
Newark Star-Ledger: First Lady Jill Biden tells N.J. teachers there's 'light at the end of the tunnel' 
"First Lady Jill Biden declared in New Jersey on Monday the nation is "beginning to see the light at the end of the tunnel" after a year of battling the coronavirus pandemic. The first lady toured Samuel Smith Elementary School in Burlington to learn about the COVID-19 mitigation plans used in the school and to promote the massive $1.9 trillion coronavirus stimulus law the president signed into law last week. 'Today I'm here to tell you, with the American Rescue Plan, help is here,' she said to applause."
CBS Philadelphia: First Lady Jill Biden Visits Burlington County School As 'Help Is Here' Tour Kicks Off 
"First Lady Dr. Jill Biden is in South Jersey Monday with a message to Americans that 'help is here.' Her tour starts at a school in Burlington County and her mission – getting children safely back inside classrooms.
The First Lady is touring the Samuel Smith Elementary School. Dr. Jill Biden is expected to make remarks about the COVID relief bill just before 1 p.m."
Fox Philadelphia: First lady Jill Biden announces 'help is here' as she details American Rescue Plan 
"First lady Jill Biden is making a visit to Burlington County, New Jersey on Monday. The First Lady toured Samuel Smith Elementary school in the afternoon. The nature of the visit was to remind the nation that while students return to classrooms, it takes resilience to continue these efforts ... 'With the American Rescue Plan, help is here!' first lady Biden said. 'We're going to open schools and we're going to do it safely.'"
Transportation Secretary Buttigieg in Landover, Maryland 
CBS Baltimore: Transportation Secretary Pete Buttigieg Tours UPS Facility In Maryland Delivering COVID-19 Vaccines 
"Transportation Secretary Pete Buttigieg toured a UPS facility in Maryland, that's helping deliver the COVID-19 vaccine to Washington, D.C. and Maryland ... Buttigieg also touted President Joe Biden's American Rescue Plan and how the vaccine is going to underserved communities in the area."
NBC Baltimore: Transportation Secretary Buttigieg tours UPS facility 
"Members of President Biden's administration are on the road this week, talking about the American Rescue Plan and the importance of getting vaccinated. This morning, Transportation Secretary and former South Bend Mayor Pete Buttigieg toured a UPS distribution facility in Maryland, as vaccines continue to roll out across the country."
Fox New Orleans: One-on-one: Biden cabinet secretary discusses COVID relief for La. 
"A member of President Joe Biden's cabinet says the American Rescue Plan has a lot to benefit the people of Louisiana as well as state and local government A member of President Joe Biden's cabinet says the American Rescue Plan has a lot to benefit the people of Louisiana as well as state and local government ... 'The American Rescue Plan is vitally important for cities like New Orleans because it's the biggest step yet that we've taken for beating the virus,' said Buttigieg in a one-on-one interview with FOX 8.
CNN Anderson Cooper 360: Transportation Secretary Buttigieg Discusses American Rescue Plan's Impact on Everyday Americans 
Transportation Secretary Pete Buttigieg discusses the American Rescue Plan's role in shoring up transit agencies across the country, expanding access and increasing opportunity in both cities and rural communities. He also responds to the jump in domestic air travel, telling Americans not to travel unless they absolutely must.
  