
    Secretary of the Interior Cecil Andrus and Secretary of the Army Clifford Alexander, with the assistance of the Office of Management and Budget and the Council on Environmental Quality, have completed the water projects screening process to determine which projects will not undergo further review at this time and will be funded in fiscal year 1978 and which ones will be subject to additional evaluation, including public hearings.
The criteria used in the screening process took into account environmental impacts, project benefits, project economics, and safety factors.
As a result of the review process, 307 of a total of 337 Corps of Engineers and Bureau of Reclamation water resource development projects will not undergo further review at this time and will be funded in the forthcoming fiscal year.
Three projects which were on the list of 19 recommended for deletion in the President's February 21 message to the Congress have been dropped from further study at this time--the Dickey Lincoln School Lakes Project, in Maine; Paintsville Lake, in Kentucky; and Freeport, in Illinois.
Dickey Lincoln, along with a number of other projects, is still in the environmental impact study phase. No project which is still in the engineering and design or environmental study phase will be subject to further study by the Presidential review group at this time, since additional work is needed to permit a full assessment of benefits, economics, environmental impacts, and safety features. Paintsville Lake and Freeport passed through the screening process without triggering major economic, environmental, or safety concerns under the criteria used.
A listing of the 307 water projects that will not undergo further review follows:
BUREAU OF RECLAMATION
Projects not subject to further review at this time, listed by State and project
- Arizona
Gila - California
All American Canal System
Sacramento River Division, Central Valley
San Felipe Division, Central Valley
San Luis Unit, Central Valley - Colorado
Curecanti Unit
Fryingpan Arkansas
San Juan Chama - Idaho
Boise, Payette Division - Montana
Buffalo Rapids
Canyon Ferry Dust Abatement
East Bench Unit
Lower Marias Unit - Nebraska
Bostwick Division
Farwell Unit
Frenchman Cambridge Division
North Loup Division
O'Neill Unit - Nevada
Southern Nevada Water Supply - New Mexico
Brantley - North Dakota
Dickinson Unit
Oklahoma
Mountain Park - Oregon
Klamath
Tualatin - South Dakota
Belle Fourche - Texas
Nueces River
Palmetto Bend
San Angelo - Utah
Emery County
Jensen Unit, Central Utah
Vernal Unit, Central Utah - Washington
Columbia Basin, Bacon Siphon and Tunnel No. 2
Columbia Basin, Third Powerplant - Wyoming
Kendrick
CORPS OF ENGINEERS
Projects not subject to further review at this time, listed by State and project
Alabama John Hollis Bankhead Lock & Dam
Jones Bluff Lock and Dam
Mobile Harbor (Theodore Channel)
Alaska Chena River Lakes
Arizona Phoenix, Arizona and Vicinity Indian Bend,
Wash. Phoenix and Vicinity (including New River)
Arkansas Degray Lake
McClellan-Kerr Ark., River Nay. System, Docks & Dam, Ark. and Okla.
Ouachita and Black Rivers, Ark. & La.
Red River Levees and Bank Stab Below Denison Dam, Ark., La., & Tex.
Norfolk Lake-Power Units 3 & 4
Posten Bayou
Village Creek, Jackson and Lawrence City.
Channel Improvement
Lower White River, Augusta to Clarendon
St. Francis Basin
California Corte Madera Creek
Cucamonga Creek
Dry Creek (Warm Springs) Lake and Channel
Humboldt Harbor and Bay
Imperial Beach
New Melones Lake
Port San Luis, San Luis Obispo Harbor
Sacramento River and Major and Minor Tributaries
Sacramento River Bank Protection
Sacramento River, Chico Landing to Red Bluff
San Diego River and Mission Bay
San Francisco Bay to Stockton (J. F. Baldwin and Stockton Ship Charts.)
Santa Cruz Harbor
Santa Maria Valley Levees
Surfside-Sunset and Newport Beach
Bodega Bay
Cottonwood Creek
Merced County Streams
San Diego (Sunset Cliffs)
San Luis Rey River
Wildcat and San Pablo Creeks
Colorado Bear Creek Lake
Chatfield Lake
Las Animas
Trinidad Lake
Connecticut New London
Park River
District of Columbia Potomac Estuary Pilot Water Treatment Plant
Florida Manatee County
Broward County
Central and Southern Florida
Dade County
Duval County
Four River Basins
Tampa Harbor (Main Channel)
Georgia Carters Lake
West Point Lake, Ga., & Ala.
Hawaii Iao Stream
Kaneohe-Kailua Area
Waianae Small Boat Harbor
Idaho Dworshak Dam and Reservoir
Rifle Lake
Illinois Eldred and Spankey Drainage & Levee District
Kaskaskia Island Drainage and Levee District
Louisville Lake
Moline
Sny Island Levee Drainage District
South Beloit
Columbia Drainage and Levee Dist. No. 3
East Moline
East St. Louis & Vicinity
Freeport
Illinois Waterway, Dresden Isl. Lock and Dam
Illinois Waterway, Starved Rock Lock and Dam
Kaskaskia River Navigation
Lock and Dam 53 (Temporary Lock), Ill., Ky.
Mississippi River btwn the Ohio and Missouri Rivers, Illinois and Missouri
Rock Island
Rockford
Smithland Locks and Dam, Ill., Ind., Ky.
Indiana Big Blue Lake
Big Walnut Lake
Brookville Lake
Cannelton Locks and Dams, Ind., Ky.
Evansville
Levee Unit, No. 5
Newburgh Locks and Dam, Ind., Ky.
Patoka Lake
Uniontown Locks and Dam, Ind., Ky.
Iowa Davenport
Big Sioux River at Sioux City, Iowa and South Dakota
Clinton
Mississippi River, Old Lock 14
Mississippi River, Old Lock 19
Missouri River Levee System, Iowa, Kansas, Missouri, and Nebraska
Missouri River, Sioux City to Mouth, Iowa, Kans., Mo., and Neb.
Saylorville Lake
Waterloo
Kansas Towanda Lake
Big Hill Lake
Clinton Lake
El Dorado Lake
Kansas City 1962 Modification
Lawrence
Perry Lake Area
Kentucky Big South Fork National River and Recreation area, Ky. & Tenn.
Carr Fork Lake
Cave Run Lake
Laurel River Lake
Martins Fork Lake
Paintsville Lake
Southwestern Jefferson County
Taylorsville Lake
Wolf Creek Dam--Lake Cumberland
Reelfoot Lake
West Kentucky Tributaries
Louisiana Red River Waterway, Shreveport, La. to Vicinity of Index, Ar.
Lake Pontchartrain and Vicinity
Larose to Golden Meadow
New Orleans to Venice
Red River Emergency Bank Protection, La., Ark., Okla., & Texas
Atchafalaya Basin
Bayou Cocodrie and Tributaries
Lower Red River
Mississippi River Levees
Old River
Teche-Vermilion Basins
Maine Dickey-Lincoln School Lakes
Maryland Baltimore Harbor and Channels
Bloomington Lake, Md., and W. Va.
Massachusetts Charles River Natural Valley Storage Areas
Saxonville
North Nashua River
Michigan Red Run Drain and Lower Clinton River
Ludington Harbor
Muskegon Harbor
Saginaw River
Tawas Bay Harbor
Minnesota Big Stone Lake--Whetstone River, Minn. and South Dakota
Mankato and North Mankato
Mississippi River, Lock and Dam 1
Roseau River
Twin Valley Lake
Mississippi Yazoo River, Belzoni Bridge
Yazoo Basin
Missouri Clarence Cannon Dam and Reservoir
Harry S. Truman Dam and Reservoir
Little Blue River Channel
Little Blue River Lakes
Long Branch Lake
Perry County Drainage and Levee, Districts 1, 2, and 3
Smithville Lake
Stockton Lake
Pine Ford Lake
Montana Libby Additional Units and Reregulating Dam
Libby Dam, Lake Koocanusa
Nebraska Papillion Creek & Tributaries Lakes - New Jersey
Elizabeth
New Mexico Las Cruces
Los Esteros Lake
New York Irondequoit Bay
New York Harbor Collection and Removal of Drift
Scajaquada Creek
Yonkers
Cattaraugus Harbor
Dansville and Vicinity
Ellicott Creek
Moriches Inlet
Port Ontario Harbor
Saw Mill River and Elmsford and Greenburgh, N.Y.
North Carolina AIWW-Replacement of Federal Highway Bridges
B. Everett Jordan Dam and Lake
Falls Lake
Masonboro Inlet Jetties
Morehead City Harbor
Manteo (Shallowbag) Bay
Randleman Lake
North Dakokta Burlington Dam
Kindred Lake
Garrison Dam--Lake Sakakawea
Minot
Missouri River, Garrison Dam to Lake Oahe
Ohio Alum Creek Lake
Caesar Creek Lake
Chillicothe
Cuyahoga River Basin
East Fork Lake
Huron Harbor
Lakeview Park
Mill Creek
Muskingum River Lakes
Newark (Log Pond Run)
Willow Island Locks and Dam, Ohio & W. Va.
Point Place
West Harbor
Oklahoma Arcadia Lake
Arkansas-Red River Basins Chloride Control, Ok., Tx., and Ks.
Fort Gibson Lake--Power Units 5 & 6
Birch Lake
Candy Lake
Clayton Lake
Copan Lake
Kaw Lake
Optima Lake
Skiatook Lake
Waurika Lake
Oregon Bonneville Second Powerhouse--Ore. & Wash. Coos Bay
John Day Lock and Dam--Lake Umatilla, Ore. & Wash.
Lost Creek Lake
Lower Columbia River Bank Protection, Ore. & Wash.
McNary Lock and Dam, Lake Wallula, Ore. & Wash.
Willamette River Basin Bank Protection
Strube Lake and Cougar Additional Unit
Pennsylvania Elk Creek Harbor
Tamaqua
Blue Marsh
Chartiers Creek
Cowanesque Lake
Monongahela River Locks and Dam 3
Presque Isle Peninsula
Raystown Lake
Tioga-Hammond Lakes
Tocks Island Lake
Tocks Island Lake, Pa., NJ., NY.
Trexler Lake
Puerto Rico Portugues and Bucana Rivers
South Carolina Cooper River, Charleston Harbor
Murrells Inlet
Texas Aquilla Lake
Arkansas-Red River Basins Chloride Control,
Area VIII
Aubrey Lake
Cooper Lake and Channels
Corpus Christi Ship Channel
El Paso
Freeport and Vicinity, Hurricane Flood protection
GIWW--Chocolate Bayou
Greenville
Highland Bayou
Lakeview Lake
Layon Lake MOD. & East Fork Channel Improv.
Port Authur & Vicinity
San Antonio Channel Improvement
San Gabriel River
Texas City & Vicinity
Texas City Channel Industrial Canal
Vince and Little Vince Bayous
Big Spring
Carl Estes Dam and Lake
Clear Creek
Millican Lake
Mouth of Colorado River
Plainview
Trinity River Project
Tennessee West Tennessee Tributaries
Virginia Fourmile Run, City of Alexandria and Arlington County
Gathright Lake
Virginia Beach
Washington Chief Joseph Dam Additional Units
Ediz Hook
Ice Harbor Additional Units
Little Goose Additional Units
Lower Granite Additional Units
Lower Granite Lock and Dam
Lower Monumental Additional Units
The Dalles Additional Units, WA & OR
Wahkiakum County Consolidated Diking District
Skagit River Levee and Channel Improvement
Vancouver Lake Area
West Virginia Beech Fork Lake
Burnsville Lake
East Lynn Lake
R. D. Bailey Lake
Rowlesburg Lake
Wisconsin Prairie Du Chien
In addition to the 16 projects remaining from the original list of 19, 14 other water projects will be subject to further review with public hearings to be held on questions of safety, economics, and environmental impacts.
These projects are: - Corps of Engineers
1. Tennessee Tombigbee Waterway, Alabama
and Mississippi
2. Tensas Basin, Arkansas and Louisiana
3. Fulton, Illinois
4. Hillsdale Lake, Kansas
5. Bayou Bodcau, Louisiana
6. Mississippi River, Gulf Outlet, Louisiana
7. Red River Waterway, Mississippi River to Shreveport, Louisiana
8. Tallahala Creek Inlet, Mississippi 9. Applegate Lake, Oregon 10. Tyrone, Pennsylvania
11. LaFarge Lake, Wisconsin Bureau of Reclamation
12. Dallas Creek, Colorado
13. Narrows Unit, Colorado
14. Lyman Project, Wyoming
The 16 projects which were orginally deleted from the President's fiscal year 1978 budget revisions and which are still subject to further review and public hearings are: - Corps of Engineers
1. Cache Basin, Arkansas
2. Richard B. Russell, Georgia and South Carolina 3. Grove Lake, Kansas 4. Dayton, Kentucky
5. Yatesville Lake, Kentucky
6. Atchafalaya River and Bayous Beouf, Chene, & Black, Louisiana
7. Meramec Park Lake, Missouri
8. Lukfata Lake, Oklahoma Bureau of Reclamation
9. Central Arizona Project, Arizona
10. Auburn-Folsom South, Central Valley Project, California 11. Dolores, Colorado
12. Fruitland Mesa, Colorado
13. Savery-Pot Hook, Colorado and Wyoming
14. Garrison Diversion Unit, North Dakota, South Dakota
15. Oahe Unit, South Dakota
16. Central Utah Project, Bonneville Unit, Utah
The Interior Department has been holding hearings this week on the eight Bureau of Reclamation projects deleted from the President's fiscal year 1978 budget. Additional hearings will be announced by the Interior and Army Departments.
The Tennessee Valley Authority is also conducting a review of its five water resource projects. The TVA's screening process should be completed shortly, and any projects which require further study and public hearing will be announced later this week.
The Agriculture Department's small watershed projects and the small projects carried out by the Corps of Engineers and the Interior Department under general authorities will be reviewed under similar criteria, and results recommended by July 15, 1977.
  