
    Luis Aguilar, of Georgia, to be a Member of the Securities and Exchange Commission for the remainder of the term expiring June 5, 2010, vice Roel C. Campos, resigned.
Constance S. Barker, of Alabama, to be a Member of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission for a term expiring July 1, 2011, vice Cari M. Dominguez, resigned.
Robert Stephen Beecroft, of California, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan.
Victoria Ray Carlson, of Iowa, to be a Member of the National Council on Disability for a term expiring September 17, 2010. (Reappointment)
Lily Fu Claffee, of Illinois, to be General Counsel of the Department of Commerce, vice John J. Sullivan.
Chad Colley, of Florida, to be a Member of the National Council on Disability for a term expiring September 17, 2010. (Reappointment)
Kristen Cox, of Utah, to be a Member of the National Council on Disability for a term expiring September 17, 2009, vice Linda Wetters, term expired.
Tyler D. Duvall, of Virginia, to be Under Secretary of Tranportation for Policy, vice Jeffrey Shane, resigned.
Marvin G. Fifield, of Utah, to be a Member of the National Council on Disability for a term expiring September 17, 2008, vice Graham Hill, term expired.
Marvin G. Fifield, of Utah, to be a Member of the National Council on Disability for a term expiring September 17, 2011. (Reappointment)
John H. Hager, of Virginia, to be a Member of the National Council on Disability for a term expiring September 17, 2009, vice Robert Davila, term expired.
Michael E. Leiter, of the District of Columbia, to be Director of the National Counterterrorism Center, Office of the Director of National Intelligence, vice John S. Redd, resigned.
Lisa Mattheiss, of Tennessee, to be a Member of the National Council on Disability for a term expiring September 17, 2010. (Reappointment)
Katherine O. McCary, of Virginia, to be a Member of the National Council on Disability for a term expiring September 17, 2009, vice Milton Aponte, term expired.
Kameran L. Onley, of Washington, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Interior, vice Mark A. Limbaugh.
Anne Rader, of Virginia, to be a Member of the National Council on Disability for a term expiring September 17, 2010. (Reappointment)
Philip Thomas Reeker, of the District of Columbia, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenpotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Macedonia.
Miguel R. San Juan, of Texas, to be United States Executive Director of the Inter-American Development Bank for a term of three years, vice Hector E. Morales, term expired.
A. Ellen Terpstra, of New York, to be Chief Agricultural Negotiator, Office of the United States Trade Representative, with the rank of Ambassador, vice Richard T. Crowder.
Renee L. Tyree, of Arizona, to be a Member of the National Council on Disability for a term expiring September 17, 2009, vice Kathleen Martinez, term expired.
John R. Vaughn, of Florida, to be a Member of the National Council on Disability for a term expiring September 17, 2010. (Reappointment)
Christopher R. Wall, of Virginia, to be an Assistant Secretary of Commerce, vice Christopher A. Padilla.
Elisse Walter, of Maryland, to be a Member of the Securities and Exchange Commission for a term expiring June 5, 2012, vice Annette L. Nazareth, term expired.
Tony J. Williams, of Washington, to be a Member of the National Council on Disability for a term expiring September 17, 2009, vice Young Woo Kang, term expired.
  