
    
  Engages supporters and undecided voters at the University of Maryland in College Park

LAKE JACKSON, Texas — Next week 2012 Republican Presidential candidate Ron Paul will hold a giant town hall meeting in Maryland, continuing the 12-term Congressman from Texas' tradition of attracting large numbers of supporters and undecided voters.
Ron Paul's college campus town hall meeting, which is free and open to the public, will take place on Wednesday, March 28th at the University of Maryland. The event will commence at 7:00 p.m. EST inside the University of Maryland's Ritchie Coliseum, located at the intersection of Baltimore Avenue and Rossborough Lane, College Park, MD 20742. Doors open to the public at 6:30 p.m. To reserve your seat for the event featuring Dr. Paul and enter the venue 30 minutes earlier than the general public, please click here.
"The University of Maryland chapter is one of our strongest in the country, recruiting more than 2,000 supporters for the campaign so far. Supporters are working tirelessly to organize this upcoming event so Ron Paul can speak directly to students and Maryland voters about his 'Plan to Restore America,' an economic blueprint that includes cutting $1 trillion in his first year in office and balancing the budget within three years," said Edward King, National Youth Director for the Ron Paul 2012 Presidential Campaign.
"Ron Paul is the only candidate who will solve our debt crisis. That's why he attracts so many young people, and that's why he is the best candidate to defeat President Obama in November," added Mr. King.
Ron Paul's campus town hall meeting at the University of Maryland is being organized in part by 'Youth for Ron Paul' (YFP). YPF, an initiative of the Ron Paul 2012 Presidential campaign, launched in September 2011, and since its inception students nationwide have organized 588 chapters and recruited more than 50,000 people. To learn more about 'Youth for Ron Paul' including how to sign-up and establish a local chapter, visit the YFP website by clicking here.
An open press opportunity will follow Ron Paul's campus town hall meeting. Members of the local and major print, broadcast, and online media with particular needs should contact Assistant Press Secretary Arick Stall at aricks@ronpaul2012.com. Please, no exceptions.
Event details are as follows. Time is Eastern.
Wednesday, March 28, 2012
7:00 p.m.
Town Hall Meeting with Ron Paul
University of Maryland — Ritchie Coliseum
Baltimore Avenue and Rossborough Lane
College Park, MD 20742
For a map of the location, click here. To reserve your seat and enter the venue 30 minutes early, click here.
  