
    SCHEDULE FOR RATING DISABILITIES 
Whereas, Section 3, Title I, of Public No. 2, 73rd Congress, entitled "An Act To maintain the credit of the United States Government", provides: 
"For each class of persons specified in subparagraphs (a) and (b) of section 1 of this title the President is hereby authorized to prescribe by regulation the minimum degrees of disability and such higher degrees of disability, if any, as in his judgment should be recognized and prescribe the rate of pension payable for each such degree of disability. In fixing rates of pensions for disability or death the President shall prescribe by regulation such differentiation as he may deem just and equitable, in the rates to be paid to veterans of different wars and/or their dependents and to be paid for 
(a) Disabilities and deaths resulting from disease or injury incurred or aggravated in line of duty in war-time sendee; 
(b) Disabilities and deaths resulting from disease or injury incurred or aggravated in line of duty in peace-time service; 
(c) Disabilities and deaths not incurred in service." 
Now, Therefore, by virtue of the authority vested in me by said law, the following regulation is hereby promulgated: 
I. The Administrator of Veterans' Affairs is hereby authorized and directed to adopt and apply a schedule of ratings of reductions in earning capacity from specific injuries or combination of injuries. The ratings shall be based, as far as practicable, upon the average impairments of earning capacity resulting from such injuries in civil occupations. The schedule shall be constructed so as to provide five grades of disability and no more, upon which payments of pension shall be based, namely, ten per cent, including those ten per cent but not twenty-five per cent; twenty-five per cent including those twenty-five per cent but not fifty per cent; fifty per cent including those fifty per cent but not seventy-five per cent; seventy-five per cent, including those seventy-five per cent but not total; and total, one hundred per cent. The Administrator of Veterans' Affairs shall from time to time readjust this schedule of ratings in accordance with experience.
FRANKLIN D. ROOSEVELT
March 31st 1933The White House.
  