
    Today former Space Shuttle Commanders and retired naval pilots Steve Oswald and William F. Readdy endorsed John Kasich for President.
Said Oswald, "In this critical time for our nation, America needs a leader who has a record we can count on. Gov. John Kasich is far and away the best candidate for the job. From balancing the budget in Washington to reviving the Ohio economy, he has a proven ability to unite people around solutions. I'm proud to offer my support to Gov. Kasich as he spreads his message of optimism and results."

Rear Admiral Oswald (USN ret.) completed three Space Shuttle missions, two as pilot and one as commander. He is the recipient of the Navy Distinguished Service Medal, the Distinguished Flying Cross, the NASA Outstanding Leadership Medal and other service awards. After his third Space Shuttle mission, he returned to NASA Headquarters to serve as Deputy Associate Administrator for Space Operations. The Washington native is married to former Congresswoman Mary Bono, who has also endorsed John Kasich.
Said Readdy, "Some candidates talk about solving problems, but I only see one candidate in the race who has actually solved them. Gov. Kasich has cut taxes, helped create jobs and balanced the budget in Washington and in Ohio. I have no doubt that the tenacity and diplomacy he's demonstrated as a congressman and governor will translate well to the Oval Office. I look forward to helping his campaign however I can."

Captain Readdy (USN ret.) is a veteran pilot astronaut with three Space Shuttle missions under his belt. Among his many NASA and Navy awards, he has received three NASA Outstanding Leadership medals, two NASA Exceptional Service medals and the Distinguished Flying Cross. After completing his final mission, the McClean, Virginia resident held various administrative positions with NASA and co-founded an aerospace consulting firm.
Said Kasich, "It's an incredible honor to receive the endorsement of two American heroes, Steve Oswald and William Readdy, whose dedication to increasing the bounds of human knowledge I have long admired. I'm grateful for their willingess to lend their support and expertise as we continue to grow our campaign around the nation."

  