
    
Baton Rouge, LA — As the Gingrich campaign travels across the Pelican state, Newt Gingrich is accompanied by a very experienced political team on the ground. At the helm is Charlie Buckels, State Director, who currently serves as the Vice Chairman of Republican Party of Louisiana where he was elected in 2008.
Mr. Buckels also served as the Treasurer of the State Party from 2004 to 2008 and as a delegate to the 2004 and 2008 Republican National Conventions and was a member of the Electoral College for the 2008 Presidential Election. When not "politicking" Charlie works with Redflix Systems and has had a distinguished career in insurance and mutual funds garnering numerous sales, management and training achievements including the Chartered Life Underwriter professional designation. He is a 1963 graduate of Istrouma High School and he received a B.S. in Marketing from LA Tech University.
In addition to Mr. Buckels the state has organized into regions with John Kay, a Republican political consultant who runs local and state campaigns in northern Louisiana with his firm Capitol Strategies of Louisiana based in Shreveport. Austin Stukins, a Marine who served in Iraq and under the Joint Chiefs of Staff at the Pentagon is also a veteran of Jay Dardenne's Lt. Governor's race. Stukins is tasked with reaching out to voters and planning events for Newt as the State Grassroots Coordinator/Baton Rouge District Director.
Charlotte Ruiz of the East Jefferson Republic Women's Club and an independent political professional is taking the lead for coordinating the lower part of the state and Murray Nelson, former District Director for Congressman Joseph Cao of New Orleans and a small business owner, will act as the Statewide Caucus and Convention Director for LA Newt 2012.
Buckels praised his team saying, "We have organized the most aggressive and experienced political team in Louisiana politics – from grassroots and retail political organizers to great strategic thinkers. We are bringing Newt's message of an aggressive energy policy with $2.50 a gallon gas, along with conservative family values to the state. The more people get to know Newt, they realize that he is the one to help lead this country back to prosperity."
  