
    Pool Reports by Rob Crilly, Washington Examiner 



Sent:
Reports:




March 19, 202111:30

Travel pool report #1: Andrews - POTUS fall on AF1 steps 
Good morning from a blustery Joint Base Andrews. I'll be your print pooler for our trip to Atlanta, Georgia.
Marine One landed at 11:24. POTUS emerged a couple of minutes laterwalked with a USAF Officer to steps and fell about half way up steps to AF1. He regained his feet and appeared to fall again - check TV pics - before making his.way safely up rest of steps.
We will be travelling aboard AF1 with the tail number 28000, for those who monitor such things.
Principal Deputy Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre is due to gaggle en route so travel and in-town pools will endeavor to bring you quotes asap.



March 19, 202111:34

Travel pool report #2: More Andrews 
POTUS was about half way up steps when he appeared to stumble. He got back upright but again appeared to trip on the steps, before recovering his balance and making rest of the climb safely. 
Rolling at 11:33 and wheels up shortly 
From White House:With POTUS on Marine One:Jen O'Malley DillonCedric RichmondAshley WilliamsStephen Goepfert
Greeting POTUS at JBA:Colonel Stephen Snelson, Commander, 89th Airlift Wing, JBA
White House staff also traveling today:Vinay ReddyKarine Jean-PierreSasha BakerRyan Montoya



March 19, 202112:52

Travel pool report #3: Georgia arrival, gaggle, POTUS '100 percent' 
AF1 wheels down at Dobbins Air Reserve Base 12:49.
KARINE JEAN-PIERRE Gaggled for about 20 min starting with preview of today's events. Hoping in-town pool was also able to get audio. Note comment about POTUS at bottom
ASIAN AMERICAN MEETINGS
"They will have an opportunity to hear about the impact on their community of Tuesday's heartbreaking senseless acts of violence as well as their perspectives on increased anti Asian incidents.
"The president will offer his support for Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders in Georgia and across the country and talk about his fierce commitment to combating xenophobia, intolerance and hate."
CDC visit
"where they will receive an update from health and medical experts who are helping lead the fight against the pandemic."
MEETINGS – Sens Rev Raphael Warnock, John Ossoff, Atlanta mayor Keisha Lance Bottoms, and Stacey Abrams
MESSAGE TO ASIAN AMERICANS
"The president understands and know the past year the community has been vilified and scapegoated and they've been attacked. So he's going … he spoke to the nation last week and made sure he lifted up the anti AAPI hate they have seen… and called it out. This is what he will continue to do.
CHINA MEETING
"The US delegation came to Anchorage committed to bring out the principles, interests and values that animate our engagement with Beijing. Knowing that exaggerated diplomatic presentations are often aimed at a domestic audience … we understand that the US delegation is continuing with our agenda while we are there.
"We will still have business to conduct.
"America's approach will be undergirded by confidence in our dealing with Beijing
POTUS TUMBLE
"It was very windy. I almost fell coming up the steps myself. He is doing 100 percent."
"He's doing fine. He's preparing for the trip just fine."



March 19, 202113:18

Travel pool #4: Air base 
Pool held aboard AF1 on arrival to give VP chance to board and get briefed with POTUS.
They exited together at 13:13 with POTUS a few steps ahead of VP. They spoke briefly with greeters (details below). POTUS and VP exchanged a few more words and she made for pmotorcade while he strode off to Marine One, putting in a couple of jogging steps on the way 
Pool is in ospreys for DeKalb-Peachtree Airport and won't see M1 lift off.
From White House, greeters are:
Colonel Craig McPike, Dobbins Installation Commander
Chief Master Sgt. Vicki Robertson, Airlift Wing Command Chief
Weather is blustery but pleasant when the sun peaks through clouds.
AF1 and AF2 are parked up about 300 yards apart.
This was in pool report #3 but WH flagging this from gaggle:
Throughout the day, the President and the Vice President will meet with Senators Raphael Warnock and Jon Ossoff, and Mayor Keisha Lance Bottoms, and Stacey Abrams.



March 19, 202113:42

Travel pool report #5: DeKalb-Peachtree Airport 
Pool arrived DeKalb-Peachtree Airport to see Marine One already on ground. POTUS disembarked at 13:37.
Motorcade rolling for CDC at 13:39. We passed a small group of supporters as we pulled out of the airport.
I'm told VP took motorcade across apron to Marine Two for flight here, in case I gave impression she motorcaded all the way in report #5.



March 19, 202113:58

Travel pool report #6: CDC and Georgia background 
Motorcade arrived CDC at 13:53. Pool did not see POTUS disembark the Beast.
The road from airport was dotted with supporters and the occasional detractor - who suggested his support was in single digit territory perhaps - before motorcade pulled on to freeway. As we hit smaller roads again the supporters returned - one with a homemade"Thank you President Biden" sign and another with a "Welcome Vice President Harris" sign close to CDC.
From White House:
At thpe Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the President and the Vice President will receive a briefing on COVID-19 and health equity led by:
Dr. Rochelle Walensky, CDC Director
Dr. Henry Walke, CDC COVID -19 Response Incident Manager
Dr. Leandris Liburd, CDC COVID-19 Response Chief Health Equity Officer
U.S. Congresswoman Nikema Williams (GA-05) will also be in attendance.
White House sends along the following background
The Need for Action in Georgia
The pandemic and the associated economic crisis have had a severe impact on Georgia.  The need for action is clear:• Since the pandemic began, more than 1,038,550 people have been infected with COVID-19, and more than 18,359 people have died.• The unemployment rate is 5.1%, up from 3.5% before the pandemic.• Since February 2020, 167,772 fewer people are employed.• 960,000 adults – 14% of all adults in the state – report not having enough food to eat.  This includes 421,000 adults living with children – that is, 15% of all adults living with children – who report that the children in their household do not have enough to eat.• An estimated 548,000 renters – or 23% of renters – are not caught up on rent.• An estimated 2,779,000 adults – or 37% of all adults statewide – report having difficulty covering normal household expenses.
Impact of the American Rescue Plan on Georgia
The ARP will provide Georgia with:• $5.073 billion in state fiscal relief.• $3.559 billion in local fiscal relief.• More than $4.345 billion in relief for K-12 schools.• Economic impact payments of up to $1,400 per person (above the $600 per person provided in December) for more than 6,255,700 adults and 2,919,400 children.  This reflects 88% of all adults in the state and 88% of all children in the state.• Additional relief of up to $1,600 per child through the Child Tax Credit to the families of 2,274,000 children, lifting 171,000 children out of poverty.• Additional relief of up to nearly $1,000 through the Earned Income Tax Credit to 572,000 childless workers, including many in frontline jobs.• Marketplace health insurance premiums that are $1,406 lower per month for a 60-year old couple earning $75,000 per year.
Georgia Vaccinations Update • Georgia residents with at least one dose: 1,774,120 people (16.7% of the total population)• Georgia residents fully vaccinated: 1,082,385 people (10.2% of the total population)
Georgia Vaccination Eligibility
Currently, the following groups are eligible for vaccination in the state:• Healthcare workers• Long-term care facility staff and residents• Law enforcement, fire personnel, and first responders• Individuals age 65+ and their caregivers• PreK-12 educators and childcare staff• Adults with intellectual and developmental disabilities and their caregivers • Parents of children with complex medical conditions
Federal Support for Georgia Vaccinations
Pharmacies: The Biden-Harris Administration'sprogram has made vaccines available in over 350 pharmacies to date, with more than 275 pharmacies receiving deliveries in the past week. Participating pharmacies are primarily Kroger and Walmart locations but also include Walgreens and CVS.
Community Health Centers: The Biden-Harris Administration is partnering with 25 Health Centers to provide them with direct vaccine allocations. Two were onboarded in the first phase of the program, in Atlanta and Swainsboro, and 23 will be onboarded over the next six weeks, in Albany, Athens, Atlanta, Augusta, Blakely, Brunswick, Columbus, La Fayette, Ludowici, Macon, Marietta, Norcross, Richland, Savannah, Stone Mountain, and Wrightsville. Combined they have sites at over 180 different locations across the state.
Federal Funding: As of March 14, the Biden-Harris Administration has provided over $105 million to the state to support vaccination operations. There are nearly 60 federal personnel currently deployed to the state to support vaccination efforts, with more to be deployed next week to support the federally-run community vaccination center opening at the Mercedes-Benz Stadium in Atlanta. There are additionally nearly 600 federally-funded National Guard members supporting COVID-19 operations in the state.



March 19, 202114:08

Travel pool report #7: CDC briefing 
Event is set up in th eEmergency Operations Center, set up with rows of desks with operators in front of computer monitors and Star Trek style graphs and charts on a giant screen that runs along one wall. A clock shows times across eight time zones.
POTUS entered at 14:02 as one person clapped. 
the rest "aren't so happy" he joked and then walked up and said hello to the woman who clapped
He is welcomed by Dr Walesky who opens by talking about recent shooting
"WE SEE IT AS OUR WORK EVERY DAY TO COMBAT RACISM."
Then on pandemic
"Your leadership from day one has instilled confidence".
Briefing continues and is being carried live by CNN and possibly others. Pool tooo far away to catch all comments and suggest yuo watch live if possible



March 19, 202114:44

Travel pool report #8: Motorcade 
Motorcade rolling for next event at 14:40. Pool will be holding while POTUS has closed press meetings before he delivers remarks.



March 19, 202114:57

Travel pool report #9: Emory 
Motorcade pulled up at Emory University campus at 14:48. Holding now in Convocation Hall as POTUS and VP hold meetings with AAPI community.
Small gathering of students outside, masked, on lawn in front of hall.



March 19, 202115:09

Travel pool report #10: Emory meetings 
White House sends this along: At Emory University, the President and the Vice President are meeting with Atlanta Mayor Keisha Lance Bottoms.
Pool is holding in the Convocation Hall, where a lectern is set up with the presidential seal. The century-old hall is built from pink and grey marble, beneath a vaulted wooden ceiling. Image attached.
POTUS due to deliver remarks here at 16:40. They will be streamed live in the usual places including https://www.whitehouse.gov/live/



March 19, 202116:26

Travel pool report #11: listening session 
White House passes along the following:
The listening session with Georgia Asian American and Pacific Islander community leaders has started. 
Attendees:
- Keisha Lance Bottoms, Mayor of Atlanta- Dr. Michelle Au, Georgia State Senator (SD-48)- Sheikh Rahman, Georgia State Senator (SD-05)- Marvin Lim, Georgia State Representative (HD-99)- Bee Nguyen, Georgia State Representative (HD-89)- Sam Park, Georgia State Representative (HD-101)- Stephanie Cho, Executive Director, Asian Americans Advancing Justice-Atlanta- Victoria Huynh, Vice President, Center for Pan Asian Community Services- Bianca Jyotishi, Georgia Organizing Manager, National Asian Pacific American Women's Forum- Cedric Richmond, Director, Office of Public Engagement- Sameera Fazili, Deputy Director, National Economic Council



March 19, 202117:48

Travel pool report #12: Two minute warning to remarks 
VP is expected to introduce POTUS.
Remarks will be livestreamed.
Two extra flags were added to the backdrop at last minute - bringing total to six.



March 19, 202118:12

Travel pool report #13: Remarks 
POTUS and VP entered at 17:49. Event finished at 18:10.
VP began speaking immediately.
"Whatever the killer's motive, these facts are clear: six of those killed Tuesday night were of Asian descent"
POTUS followed at 17:53, beginning by apologising for being late after "heart wrenching" meeting with members of AAPI community.
"Whatever the motivation we know this, too many Asian Americans have been walking up and down streets and worrying...
"They've been attacked, blamed, scapegoated, harassed."
"We're learning again what we've always known. Words have consequences. It's the coronavirus. Full stop."
"Hate and violence often hide in plain sight. It's often met with silence. But that has to change, because our silence is complicity. We cannot be complicit. We have to speak out, we have to act."
Then pivoted to vaccines and other pandemic topics.
POTUS spoke for about 16 minutes. Walked straight out. without responding to a question about whether his next priority will be gun control.



March 19, 202118:55

Travel pool report #14: Meetings 
Pool is holding in the quad outside Convocation Hall while POTUS and VP hold more meetings. It has just started raining.
Stacey Abrahams just passed through to whoops and screams from students who are thronging paths around two sides of the quad. They are wearing masks but not entirely socially distanced.
The White House also confirms that the president and the Vice President are meeting with Senators Raphael Warnock and Jon Ossoff.
They just emerged to a rock star reception and posed for selfies with the extremely excitable crowd.



March 19, 202119:39

Travel pool report #15: Motorcade 
Motorcade filing for airport from Emory at 19:33.
In last meeting that White House notified us of, President and the Vice President met with former Georgia House Minority Leader Stacey Abrams.



March 19, 202119:57

Travel pool report #16: Marine One 
Motorcade arrived airport at 19:52. Pool loaded on to osprey as POTUS boarded Marine One out of sight in distance for hop to Dobbins Air Reserve Base.



March 19, 202120:22

Travel pool report #17: Air Force One plus meetings readout 
Pool osprey wheels down Dobbins Air Reserve Base at 20:07. Marine One pulled around in front of AF1 a few minutes later.
POTUS emerged at 20:15 after chatting briefly with pilots. He walked alone , with a trademark jog step thrown in, to plane. He climbed the steps at a rapid clip, holding the rail as he went. He gave a salute at the top, waved to pool, and entered the plane.
AF1 rolling at 20:21 and wheels up for home imminently.
From Principal Deputy Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre:
"The President and the Vice President discussed voting rights and the barriers that many Americans face when exercising their right to vote in meetings today with Stacey Abrams, Atlanta Mayor Keisha Lance Bottoms, and Senators Jon Ossoff and Reverend Raphael Warnock. They discussed state legislation in Georgia and across the country that would make it harder for people to vote, along with possible solutions to make voting more accessible. The President re-affirmed his commitment to re-authorizing the John Lewis Voting Rights Act and his strong belief that every eligible voter should be able to vote and have their vote counted."
Before leaving Emory the President and the Vice President participated in a photo line with the following participants:
Sanford Bishop, U.S. Congressman (GA-02)Hank Johnson, U.S. Congressman (GA-04)Lucy McBath, U.S. Congresswoman (GA-06)Carolyn Bourdeaux, U.S. Congresswoman (GA-07)Austin Scott, U.S. Congressman (GA-08)Billy Mitchell, Georgia State Representative (HD-88)Calvin Smyre, Georgia State Representative (HD-135)Robb Pitts, Chairman of Fulton County Board of Commissioners



March 19, 202121:54

Travel pool report #18: Andrews and lid 
Air Force One wheels down at Andrews at 21:38.
POTUS disembarked a few minutes later, walked straight down the steps and saluted officer on the tarmac. He headed straight for Marine One.
Marine One was wheels up for a Camp David weekend at 21:53.
Lid called.
It just remains to thanks co-pooler Chris Megerian and wish everyone a decent weekend.




  