
    
  President of National Religious Broadcasters Allied With Cruz 

HOUSTON, Texas – Presidential candidate Ted Cruz today announced the endorsement of Dr. Jerry Johnson, President and Chief Executive Officer of the National Religious Broadcasters.

"I am honored to have Jerry's support," said Cruz. "National Religious Broadcasters plays a key role in defending the First Amendment, and NRB members are transforming culture through their encouraging, educational, and Christ-focused programming. The world needs more communicators committed to excellence, and I am proud to stand with America's religious broadcasters in the defense of our First Amendment rights."
"I support Ted Cruz because of the Buckley rule," Johnson said in his endorsement video. "'Vote for the most conservative candidate that has a chance of winning the election.' ...in polls, Ted is winning head-to-head against any of his other primary opponents, and also in head-to-head polling, he can win the general election."
"You may have heard that Ted Cruz can't get along with politicians in DC," Johnson continued. "I think that's a badge of honor, that's a reason to support Ted. It reminds me of the evangelist Billy Sunday, he said, "They tell me I rub the fur the wrong way. I don't. Let the cat turn around." Well, I can tell you Washington DC needs to turn around. Congress needs to turn around. We've got 18 trillion dollars of debt – that needs to be turned around! Ted Cruz is a fighter, he'll turn it around."
Dr. Johnson previously served as President of Criswell College in Dallas, TX, and served in the senior administration and on the faculty at the Southern Baptist Theological Seminary and Midwestern Baptist Theological Seminary. His pastoral and ministry experience includes pastorates at Ireland Baptist Church, Ireland, Texas; Central Baptist Church, Aurora, Colorado; and, Cornerstone Baptist Church, Littleton, Colorado. Dr. Johnson is married to Rhonda and they are the parents of two children.
*Titles and affiliations are provided for identification purposes only.
  