
    Today, Flint Mayor Sheldon Neeley and his wife Cynthia Neeley, a candidate for State House, issued the following press release announcing their endorsement of Joe Biden for President of the United States:
Mayor Sheldon Neeley, House candidate Cynthia Neeley issue dual presidential endorsement for former Vice President Joe Biden
After much prayer and consideration, both Mayor Sheldon Neeley and his wife Cynthia Neeley, a candidate for State House, are announcing today their official dual endorsement of Vice President Joe Biden's candidacy for president of the United States. They released the following statement:
"In order to lift and move our community and nation forward, we are proud today to offer our support and partnership to Joe Biden," Mayor Neeley said.
"In light of all the challenges in Michigan and the water crisis in the City of Flint, we need strong leadership and a friend in the White House," Cynthia Neeley said.
Former Vice President Joe Biden has long been a friend of working people, and working alongside President Barack Obama, he has proven he is a strong supporter of the City of Flint.
Calling Joe Biden, the best choice, the strongest choice, and their proud choice, the Neeleys are among a critical mass of supporters helping to boost Joe Biden's campaign in the days leading up to Michigan's Democratic Primary on March 10.
Cynthia Neeley will also appear on the March 10 ballot as the Democratic candidate for the 34th state House District.
The Neeleys join a growing list of prominent Michigan leaders supporting Biden, including Governor Gretchen Whitmer, Lieutenant Governor Garlin Gilchrist II, former Governor Jennifer Granholm, and former Michigan Senator Carl Levin, Congresswoman Elissa Slotkin, Congresswoman Haley Stevens, and Congresswoman Brenda Lawrence, who announced their support this week. In addition, the Michigan Democratic Party Black Caucus, Detroit Mayor Mike Duggan, State Representatives Joe Tate, Karen Whitsett, and Tenisha Yancey, and State Senator Marshall Bullock have also endorsed Biden.
Nationally, Biden for President has previously announced more than 1,700 endorsements from national, state, and local leaders, including current and former U.S. senators and representatives, governors, state elected officials, community leaders, and national security professionals.
  