
    
  Sweeps St. Louis City Caucus and doubles nearest delegate-winner Mitt Romney in Jackson County

ST. LOUIS, Missouri — 2012 Republican Presidential candidate Ron Paul won today key parts of the Missouri caucuses that concluded this afternoon, demonstrating the effectiveness of his delegate-attainment strategy and the viability of his candidacy.
In the St. Louis City Caucus held today, the 12-term Congressman from Texas won 36 delegates and 36 alternate delegates to both the 1st Congressional District and to the Republican State Convention, meaning Dr. Paul cleanly swept this consequential part of the statewide nominating contest. In total, Missouri's 1st Congressional District has 103 delegates and Ron Paul won 36 of them as a result of winning the entire St. Louis City Caucus. For comparison sake, in the St. Louis City Caucus, Ron Paul received 158 votes and the next-closest vote recipient Rick Santorum garnered just 74 votes, or less than half.
The larger Jackson County caucus also occurred today. In the 5th Congressional District, Ron Paul won 63 delegates, won all 144 alternate delegates, won 105 delegates to the Republican state convention, and won 144 alternates to the state convention. In the 6th Congressional District, Dr. Paul swept all 39 delegates, won all 39 delegates to the state convention, and won 144 alternates to the state convention.
The countywide totals for Dr. Paul include 246 Congressional delegates, more than double Mitt Romney's 120, and 360 alternate delegates for Ron Paul, a clean sweep in that regard.
Santorum and Newt Gingrich won zero Congressional delegates and alternate delegates in Jackson County.
Kansas City is the county seat of Jackson County, which has a population of more than 674,000 according to 2009 U.S. Census Bureau estimates. Caucusing to determine the Republican nominee for the presidency began in The Show-Me State on Saturday, March 17th and concluded today, Saturday the 24th.
"Congratulations to Ron Paul's Missouri supporters who carried out such a meaningful victory. Today's Show-Me State results illustrate that Ron Paul's campaign organization alongside the grassroots is strong, agile, and able to win contests that are vital ahead of Tampa," said Ron Paul 2012 National Campaign Chairman Jesse Benton, referring to the September Republican National Convention to be held in Florida.
  