
    Dear Mr. Speaker:
On October 16, 2002, I signed into law the "Authorization for Use of Military Force Against Iraq Resolution of 2002" (Public Law 107-243). After condemning Saddam Hussein's continued possession of chemical and biological weapons, obstruction of inspections, and brutal repression of the Iraqi people, the Congress affirmed, "Iraq poses a continuing threat to the national security of the United States and international peace and security of the Persian Gulf region and remains in material and unacceptable breach of its international obligations."
Subsequent to enactment of Public Law 107-243, the United Nations Security Council unanimously agreed to Resolution 1441 offering Iraq one final chance to disarm. After more than a decade of deceit and defiance, the regime, yet again, failed to "fully and unconditionally" comply. Iraq continues to pose a grave danger to global peace and security. The United States and our allies must seek to disarm Iraq and liberate the Iraqi people, and we will prevail.
Today, I submit a request for 2003 supplemental appropriations to support Department of Defense operations in Iraq and to strengthen the capabilities of our friends and allies who will share the burden of military and stabilization activities. Disarming and liberating Iraq is a first step. This request also provides immediate humanitarian relief, support for reconstruction, and the development of a free-market democracy in Iraq. Finally, the request will enhance the safety and well-being of Americans at home and abroad with investments managed by the Department of State, the Department of Homeland Security, and other agencies.
This request reflects urgent and essential requirements. Much of the funding has been requested with flexible authorities. This flexibility will ensure requirements can be immediately addressed as they arise despite the unpredictable scope, duration, and intensity of operations. I ask the Congress to appropriate the funds as requested, and promptly send the bill to me for signature. I urge the Congress to refrain from attaching items not directly related to the emergency at hand.
This supplemental request provides essential support to help guarantee the success and safety of our men and women in uniform, to help enhance the security of America and her citizens, and to establish an Iraqi nation, free, prospering and at peace with its neighbors.
Sincerely,
GEORGE W. BUSH
  