
    WASHINGTON, DC – Today, President Barack Obama announced his intent to appoint the following individual to a key Administration post:
•      Julia A. Pierson - Director of the United States Secret Service, Department of Homeland Security
President Obama said, "I am pleased to announce that I will appoint Julia A. Pierson to be the next Director of the United States Secret Service. Over her 30 years of experience with the Secret Service, Julia has consistently exemplified the spirit and dedication the men and women of the service demonstrate every day. A veteran of the Miami and Orlando field offices, where she began her career at the Secret Service, Julia has served as the Deputy Assistant Director of the Office of Protective Operations, Assistant Director of Human Resources and Training, and most recently as the Chief of Staff. Julia is eminently qualified to lead the agency that not only safeguards Americans at major events and secures our financial system, but also protects our leaders and our first families, including my own. Julia has had an exemplary career, and I know these experiences will guide her as she takes on this new challenge to lead the impressive men and women of this important agency."
President Obama announced his intent to appoint the following individual to a key Administration post:
Julia A. Pierson, Appointee for Director of the United States Secret Service, Department of Homeland Security
Julia A. Pierson currently serves as Chief of Staff in the Office of the Director of the United States Secret Service (USSS). Prior to her current role, from 2006 to 2008, she served as USSS Assistant Director of the Office of Human Resources and Training. Ms. Pierson's previous leadership roles within the USSS include: Deputy Assistant Director of the Office of Protective Operations (2005-2006), Deputy Assistant Director of the Office of Administration (2001-2005), and Special Agent in Charge of the Office of Protective Operations (2000-2001). Ms. Pierson joined the USSS in 1983 as a Special Agent in Miami, Florida. Prior to joining the USSS, Ms. Pierson was a police officer in the Orlando Police Department from 1980 to 1983. She received a B.A. from the University of Central Florida.
  