
    
"On the question of experience, the ability to enact progressive change, and the issue of who can win the general election and the presidency, the clear and urgent choice is Hillary Clinton."
Rolling Stone made their first presidential endorsement in 1974—the year the voting age was lowered from 21 to 18.
Ever since, they've proudly backed the presidential candidate they believe is the best choice for young voters. This year, says Rolling Stone, the right candidate is Hillary Clinton.


  " Clinton not only has the experience and achievements as first lady, senator and secretary of state, but a commitment to social justice and human rights that began for her as a young woman. She was one of those college students in the Sixties who threw herself into the passionate causes of those times, and she continues to do so today."

The author of Rolling Stone's endorsement believes Bernie Sanders is an important voice in this election—but Hillary Clinton is the best candidate to get things done.


  " Politics is a rough game, and has been throughout American history. Idealism and honesty are crucial qualities for me, but I also want someone with experience who knows how to fight hard. It's about social and economic justice and who gets the benefits and spoils of our society, and those who have them now are not about to let go of their share just because it's the right thing to do. And Clinton is a tough, thoroughly tested fighter."

The endorsement also stressed the importance of this election.


  " This election is even more consequential, a tipping point like none since before the Civil War. We are at the culmination of a decades-long effort by the right wing to take over the government. ... The House, the Senate and, until a month ago, the Supreme Court are under the thumb of special interests and the extremely wealthy, who seek to roll back decades and decades of legislative progress that have furthered life, ?liberty and the pursuit of happiness.' And most horrifying of all, they would stop the world's last-minute effort to fight climate change, where the stakes are the fate of civilization as we now know it."

The bottom line: Hillary will stop the Republicans from undoing all of the progress we've made under President Obama—and she'll fight to build on it.


  " On the question of experience, the ability to enact progressive change, and the issue of who can win the general election and the presidency, the clear and urgent choice is Hillary Clinton."

Read the full endorsement here.
  