
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate three individuals and appoint two individuals and designate one individual to serve in his Administration.
The President intends to nominate Luis Aguilar, of Georgia, to be a Commissioner of the Securities and Exchange Commission, for the remainder of a five-year term expiring 06/05/10. Mr. Aguilar currently serves as a Partner at McKenna, Long & Aldridge, LLP. Prior to this, he served as a Partner at Alston & Bird, LLP. Earlier in his career, he served as the General Counsel of INVESCO. Mr. Aguilar received his bachelor's degree from Georgia Southern University, his JD from the University of Georgia Law School, and his MLT from Emory University.
The President intends to nominate Elisse B. Walter, of Maryland, to be a Commissioner of the Securities and Exchange Commission for the remainder of a five-year term expiring 06/05/12. Ms. Walter currently serves as Senior Executive Vice President for Regulatory Policy & Programs at the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. Prior to this, she served as General Counsel of the Commodities Futures Trading Commission. Earlier in her career, she served as Deputy Director of the Division of Corporation Finance of the Securities and Exchange Commission. Ms. Walter received her bachelor's degree from Yale University and her JD from Harvard Law School.
The President intends to nominate Marie L. Yovanovitch, of Connecticut, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Armenia. Ms. Yovanovitch, a career member of the Foreign Service, currently serves as Ambassador to the Kyrgyz Republic. Prior to this, she served as Senior Advisor to the Under Secretary for Political Affairs at the Department of State. Earlier in her career, she served as Deputy Chief of Mission in Kyiv. Ms. Yovanovitch received her bachelor's degree from Princeton University and her master's degree from the National War College.
The President intends to appoint Christopher A. Padilla, of the District of Columbia, to be a Member of the Congressional-Executive Commission on the People's Republic of China (Representative of the Department of Commerce).
The President intends to appoint Alexa E. Posny, of Kansas, to be a Member of the National Institute for Literacy Advisory Board, for the remainder of a three-year term expiring 11/25/11.
The President intends to designate Stephanie Johnson Monroe, of Virginia, to be Acting Assistant Secretary for Legislation and Congressional Affairs at the Department of Education.
  