
    Pool Reports by George Condon, National Journal 



Sent:
Reports:




March 9, 202213:11

2 minute warning on briefing 
[APP Note: No additional text was included in this report.]



March 9, 202214:38

In town pool report 2
Briefing began at 1:09 and ended at 1:51. Led by the stalwarts in the Cheap Seats, 40 questions were asked.



March 9, 202214:38

In town pool report #3
The Roundtable with CEOs and governors just concluded with strong endorsements of the Bipartisan Innovation Act. Little color; no new developments. The president did not take any questions before the pool was ushered out. He said that he would also be leaving in the middle of the session because of what he called "a little thing going on in Europe right now."
He entered the South Court at 2:06 and the pool left at 2:19. Color and some quotes to follow in next pool report.
From the White House at start of meeting:
This afternoon, the President will host a Roundtable With CEOs and Governors in Support of the Bipartisan Innovation Act.
In attendance with the President at this event:
Administration ParticipantsSecretary Gina Raimondo, U.S. Department of CommerceBrian Deese, Assistant to the President & Director of the National Economic Council
Governor ParticipantsGovernor Eric Holcomb (IN)Governor Gretchen Whitmer (MI)
CEO ParticipantsDr. Siyoung Choi, President and GM, Device Solutions Division, Samsung (virtual)Elizabeth Door, Senior Vice President, Global Strategic Sourcing, WhirlpoolEnrique Lores, President and CEO, Hewlett-Packard (virtual)Geoff Martha, CEO, MedtronicSanjay Mehrota, President and CEO, MicronJennifer Rumsey, President and COO, CumminsBrendan Duke, Senior Policy Advisor



March 9, 202214:43

In town pool report #4 lunch lid
A lunch lid is in place until 5 p.m.
(pool report on South Court event still to come)



March 9, 202215:08

In town pool report #5
Two long tables were set up. The president sat at the top of the table on the left under a large sign "A Future Made in America."
Seated at the president's table were Sanjay Mehrota, President and CEO, Micron; Geoff Martha, CEO, Medtronic; and Commerce Secretary Gina Raimondo. At the other table were Govs. Eric Holcomb and Gretchen Whitmer; Elizabeth Door, Senior Vice President, Global Strategic Sourcing, Whirlpool; Jennifer Rumsey, President and COO, Cummins; and Brian Deese of the NEC. On the screen were Enrique Lores, President and CEO, Hewlett-Packard and Dr. Siyoung Choi, President and GM, Device Solutions Division, Samsung.
After shaking hands and thanking them for coming to the event, the president reminded them of what he said in his State of the Union address, that we are seeing "the revitalization of American manufacturing." He said that would be boosted by Congress passing the Bipartisan Innovation Act, calling that badly needed by companies that want to expand their American plants. He then spoke at length about the importance of semi conductors, lamenting the decline of the U.S. share of their production from 40 percent of the global product to today's 10 percent. "That puts us at the mercy of" supply chain issues. He urged the House and the Senate "to work out their differences" and get a bill to his desk as soon as possible. He said this would send three messages: 1) that America is back in the game; 2) it would create jobs; 3) boost his Made in America agenda. For good measure, he added a fourth – it will mean we aren't overly reliant on other countries. Citing problems at getting early supplies in the pandemic, he added, "We should never be in that position again."
After six minutes, he turned it over to Gov. Holcomb. The governor called Indiana the "shiny buckle" on what used to be called the Rust Belt. He said Congress needs to understand that "slow speed" kills in this instance. He said Indiana understands the importance of not just playing catch up but taking the lead in a race like the Indy 500. At that, the president interjected that he would like to drive the lead car in the Indy 500. The governor said, "I'll write that down." The president shot back. "You think I'm kidding… I'm ready."
After two minutes of Holcomb, Gov. Whitmer took the mic. She called semi conductors a matter of national security and said their shortage ad put "thousands of jobs at risk" in her state. She blamed the shortage for delaying 2.2 million vehicles, driving up costs and jeopardizing families The president said that one-third of the inflation last year was because of the cost of autos.
At 2:18, Elizabeth Door of Whirlpool spoke of her plants in Ohio and Oklahoma and the company's nine plants in the United States. "We have been challenged by the supply chain," she said. She called the semi conductors "absolutely critical" to Whirlpool. The president asked her if her customers understood the role played by semi conductors. "Absolutely," she said. The president said that before this, too many people "took for granted" that the supply would be sustained. The president noted that "we actually invented the semi conductor" and then called for spending "a hell of a lot more" on research and development. Jennifer Rumsey of Cummins then spoke at 2:22, urging Congress to "come together in a bipartisan way." She added, "We strongly support the bill." At 2:28., the president cited that "little thing going on in Europe," the pool shouted a few questions and was ushered out. At last sight, the president was still in the room.



March 9, 202217:56

In town pool report 6 
Motorcade enroute Senate Democratic Issues Conference departed White House at 5:57.



March 9, 202218:11

In town pool report #7 
The President arrived at Howard University at 6:05 p.m. after a short and uneventful motorcade Event is closed press



March 9, 202219:53

In town pool report 8 
Motorcade departed Howard campus at 7:53.



March 9, 202220:07

In town pool report No 9 lid 
Motorcade and president arrived back at White House at 7:59. Lid declared at 8:06.




  