
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate three individuals and his intention to appoint one individual to serve in his administration.
The President intends to nominate Kyle E. McSlarrow to be Deputy Secretary of the Department of Energy. McSlarrow is currently Chief of Staff to Secretary Abraham. Before joining the Department of Energy, he was the Vice President of Political and Government Affairs for Grassroots.com. From January 1997 to November 1998, McSlarrow served as Chief of Staff to Senator Paul Coverdell and the Republican Conference. He has served as Deputy Chief of Staff and Chief Counsel to Senate Majority Leaders Bob Dole and Trent Lott and was an attorney with the Washington law firm of Hunton and Williams where he practiced environmental and energy litigation. He served at the Pentagon for three years as Assistant to the General Counsel of the Army from 1985 to 1989. McSlarrow is a graduate of Cornell University and the University of Virginia Law School.
The President intends to nominate the following individuals to serve as the Government Representatives to the Board of Directors of the African Development Foundation:
Claude A. Allen, Deputy Secretary of Health and Human Services, for the remainder of a six-year term expiring September 22, 2003 and upon confirmation designate chairman.
Walter H. Kansteiner, Assistant Secretary of State for African Affairs, for the remainder of a six-year term expiring September 27, 2003.
The President intends to appoint Mark Griffon to be a Member of the Advisory Board on Radiation and Worker Health. Griffon has served as the President of Creative Pollution Solutions in New Hampshire since 1992 where he performs consulting services in the radiation and hazardous waste fields. He also presently serves as Program Director for the Department of Energy's Medical Surveillance Research program for the Gaseous Diffusion Plant Exposure Assessment, and as a Member of the Advisory Committee for U.S. Transuranium and Uranium Registries. Griffon earned a bachelor's degree from Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute and a Master's degree from the University of Massachusetts at Lowell.
  