
    HERMAN CAIN AND JACKIE CUSHMAN GINGRICH FOCUS ON UNDECIDED TENNESSEE VOTERS
Franklin, TN - Campaign stops in the past 24 hours have included rallies and events in Franklin, Chattanooga, and Cleveland, Tennessee with a major event in Knoxville wrapping up the day.  Former Oklahoma Congressman J.C. Watts is also representing Gingrich in Jackson, Tennessee tonight as the Gingrich campaign pushes for a Super Tuesday victory in Tennessee.
"About one third of Tennessee voters remain undecided or up for grabs in this final weekend before the Super Tuesday primary vote," Jackie Gingrich Cushman told a large and enthusiastic crowd at the Car Barn in Chattanooga, Tennessee, "and Newt's 2-5-0 gasoline plan is convincing those voters that he not only has the ideas to fix our nation's problems but the best chance for winning in November as well."
"Newt and I have the same starting point in tax reform that I have promoted in my 9-9-9 plan," Herman Cain told a crowd of over 400 at Lee University, in Cleveland, Tennessee. "And his 2-5-0 plan for making gasoline more affordable for American families is far better than Barack Obama's perversion of my 9-9-9 plan…the one where the President wants us to pay $9.99 a gallon for gasoline!"
Nationally syndicated conservative talk host Steve Gill has been traveling with the Gingrich team over the weekend throughout Tennessee and noted that "for conservative voters the choice between Rick Santorum and Newt Gingrich seem to show a strong trend toward Gingrich as Super Tuesday looms. As the anti-Santorum Romney ads and robo-calls take their toll it looks like the votes being pulled off of Santorum are splitting between Romney and Gingrich, with Newt picking up most of them.  As Santorum slips, Newt may rebound like when a fat kid jumps on one side of a teeter totter," Gill noted. "We've seen that in the volatility of the national polls where Romney and Santorum have essentially traded places in the last week and in states like Ohio where the Santorum lead has completely disappeared in a matter of days."
Jackie Cushman and Herman Cain will continue the push to Super Tuesday tour in Oklahoma on Monday.
  