
    Today, former Arkansas Senator Blanche Lincoln, released the following statement endorsing Joe Biden for the President of the United States:
"I know Joe. I know his character, what he values, his devotion to family, his work ethic and his passion about doing the right thing for the people of our Country. Joe knows the issues facing our communities in Arkansas. When I served in the U.S. Senate, I watched Joe fight for what was right and I was proud to work alongside him to solve issues that working families are facing. He's represented our nation on the world stage. I traveled to Iraq with him to visit our Arkansas soldier and saw in person the respect leaders in other countries have for him. He fought to get the Affordable Care Act passed that helped more than 70,000 Arkansans and their families gain access to quality, affordable health insurance and provides critical protections for Arkansans living with pre-existing conditions. And he helped lead our nation's recovery from one of the worst recessions since the Great Depression by working across the aisle and making the hard decisions.
"In Arkansas, uncertainty created by unpredictable trade wars has upended our agricultural economy and the constant threat of losing health care coverage for preexisting conditions has caused unnecessary anxiety among patients and medical providers. This ends with Joe Biden.
"I adore Joe and Jill Biden. Steve and I will never forget their kindness and support when we arrived in the US Senate in 1999 with twin two year olds and a full schedule of work, family and all that young families face! Jill will be a tremendous First Lady. And Joe will assemble a White House staff and cabinet who respect the Constitution and who know how to address our nation's most critical needs. I am confident that, with a proven and tested leader like Joe Biden in the White House, we can begin to heal and unite our nation, restore our democracy, and make real progress for hardworking families. Today, I am proud to endorse my friend and former colleague Joe Biden for President of the United States."
Lincoln's endorsement adds to the growing momentum Joe Biden has established in Arkansas, a critical Super Tuesday state. She joins State Representatives Jamie Scott and Frederick Love, State Senator Linda Chesterfield, and former U.S. Senators Mark Pryor and David Pryor, in supporting Joe Biden. Biden has been building a broad and diverse coalition across the South, winning the support of Atlanta Mayor Keisha Lance Bottoms, Birmingham Mayor Randall Woodfin, Senator Doug Jones, Congresswoman Terri Sewell, Georgia State Rep. Pedro Marin, and other community leaders.
Biden for President has previously announced more than 1,400 endorsements from national, state, and local leaders, including current and former U.S. senators and representatives, governors, state elected officials, community leaders, and national security professionals.
  