
    The following listing includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the White House Press Office and not included elsewhere in this issue.
February 24
The President met at the White House with Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs. February 25
The President attended a concert by Mikhail Baryshnikov and members of the New York City Ballet Company in the East Room at the White House.
February 26
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Frank B. Moore, Assistant to the President for Congressional Liaison; —the Cabinet;
—Vice President Waiter F. Mondale;
—James T. Mcintyre, Jr., Director of the Office of Management and Budget.
In a ceremony in the Oval Office, the President received diplomatic credentials from Ambassadors Felipe Doroteo Monterroso Miranda of Guatemala, Sidi Bouna Ould Sidi of Mauritania, and Sultan Muhammad Khan of Pakistan.
The President has appointed John E. Menario, executive vice president of the Greater Portland (Maine) Chamber of Commerce, as a member of the Endangered Species Committee, representing the State of Maine, to consider the exemption application of the Pittston Company, and as a member of the Review Board of that Committee.
The President announced the appointment of John P. White, Deputy Director of the Office of Management and Budget, as a member of the Board of Governors of the American Red Cross.
The President has named Ambassador Andrew J. Young to be his Special Representative at the Australian-American Week celebrations in Australia in early May. Ambassador Young was invited to be the guest of honor at these annual celebrations by the Australian-American Association. While there, Ambassador Young will consult with the Government of Australia on international issues of importance to Australia and the United States. Ambassador Young will be accompanied by Mrs. Young. During his trip, he will visit Canberra, Sydney, Melbourne, and Perth. After these annual celebrations by the Australian-American Association, he will be a joint guest of the Association and of the Australian Government.
February 27
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Mr. Moore.
February 28
The President met at the White House with:
—newly elected Democratic Governors and their spouses;
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Mr. Moore and members of the Budget Task Force;
—Vice President Mondale and members of the Congressional Black Caucus;
—Representative and Mrs. Harold T. Johnson of California;
—John C. White, chairman of the Democratic National Committee;
—a group of Senators and Congressmen, to discuss his recent trip to Mexico; —Senator Lloyd M. Bentsen of Texas.
Prime Minister Pierre Elliott Trudeau of Canada has accepted the President's invitation to come to Washington on Saturday, March 3. The two leaders plan to have a working luncheon in the Oval Office. The Prime Minister is expected to arrive in Washington on Saturday and travel to New York City following the luncheon. The President had been scheduled to go to New York City on Saturday, but will be unable to do so because of his planned talks with Prime Minister Begin of Israel.
March 1
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Mr. Moore;
—Clarence M. Mitchell, Jr., who is retiring as director of the Washington office of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People; -Mrs. Carter, for lunch.
In a ceremony in the Oval Office, the President received diplomatic credentials from Ambassadors Knut Hedemann of Norway, Carlos Alfredo Lopez Guevara of Panama, and Chai Zemin of the People's Republic of China.
In a ceremony in the Oval Office, the President received the first sheet of Easter Seals, which marked the start of the 1979 Easter Seal Campaign, from Claire Huckel, 7, of Philadelphia, Pa., the National Easter Seal Poster Child.
March 2
The President met at the White House with:
—Vice President Mondale, Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance, Secretary of Defense Harold Brown, and Dr. Brzezinski;
—Dr. Brzezinski.
The President announced that he will nominate Richard E. Benedick, of Santa Monica, Calif., for the rank of Ambassador during the periods when he represents the United States at international conferences. Benedick is Coordinator for Population Affairs at the State Department.
The President announced that Robert W. Maber has been named to the White House Congressional Liaison Office. Maher will be working with the House Liaison staff.
  