
    Mitt Romney today announced the support of Florida Senator Marco Rubio.
"Marco Rubio is living proof that the American Dream is still very much alive," said Mitt Romney. "From humble origins, he has risen to become one of the brightest lights in our political party. He has been a leading voice in the U.S. Senate and the country for the cause of restoring American greatness. He knows that the way forward is to end excessive regulations, shrink government, and get our economy growing. He understands that the way to strengthen our communities is to strengthen our families. He recognizes the dangers that will face America if we fail to maintain our military power. He understands how critical it is to bring new leadership to the White House. Senator Rubio's endorsement is a major milestone in my effort to make Barack Obama a one-term president. Ann joins me in thanking him for the confidence he is placing in my leadership and for the great honor he has done me today."
Click Here To Watch Senator Rubio Endorse Mitt Romney for President
FOX NEWS' SEAN HANNITY: "Up to this point, you had not jumped into the primary race. Are you endorsing Mitt Romney then?"
SENATOR MARCO RUBIO: "Well, I am going to endorse Mitt Romney and the reason why is not only because he is going to be the Republican nominee but he offers at this point, such a stark contrast to the President's record. Look at the President's record. This is someone who has run the country, not very well over the last 3 years, that has no experience beyond that doing that. At the same time, as he has no experience with the private sector or the free enterprise system. In Mitt Romney, we have a candidate, an alternative, that in addition to being successful as a governor, running an important state in this country, has also been successful in the private sector and offers a very clear alternative to the direction this president is going to take our country. I think all the candidates in this race have a lot to be proud of. They have offered a lot to the debate. But I just can't buy into this idea that by their own admission, they are saying the only way they can win this race is by having a floor fight in Tampa in August. I think that's a recipe to deliver four more years to Barack Obama and our country — forget about the Republican Party —  our country cannot afford that. We have got to come together behind who I think has earned this nomination and that's Mitt Romney."
  