
    WITH Whitney Young's tragic death today in Nigeria, I have lost a friend-black America has lost a gifted and commanding champion of its just cause--and this Nation has lost one of the most compassionate and principled leaders it has had in all the long centuries since whites from Europe and blacks from Africa began building together toward the American dream.
Whitney Young died in the full bloom of life--and at the very height of his contribution to American society. His life is over but his life's work continues.
Of the many hours I have spent with him, the most recent and the most memorable were just last December 22,1 when he and several of his Urban League colleagues met with me and most of my Cabinet here in the White House.
1 The White House later stated that Mr. Young had also been one of a group of black leaders with whom the President spent a few minutes on February 24, 1971, when the group was attending a briefing on the Administration's domestic programs at the White House.
This was not a meeting of pleasantries or a pro forma occasion. Whitney Young came here to tell me and the Cabinet of his deep concern for the condition of black people in America, especially of young black people. He was eloquent, tough, and convincing: a great leader among his peers.
From that meeting, I sent out instructions to all of my Cabinet to find ways to enlist the unique capabilities of the Urban League and other private social service agencies in advancing and evaluating the Nation's human resources programs. The last time I talked to Whitney Young was when he called me to report on the rapid progress the Urban League is making in mounting such a joint effort with the several departments.
This effort launched so ably by Whitney Young will go forward, as will all of the enterprises which have benefited from his vision and energies--and which are now his legacy. That the great work of equal justice and human dignity must now continue without him is a tragedy that weighs heavily upon the Nation--but continue it will, stronger than ever because of the example he set.
Nothing Mrs. Nixon and I could say to voice our deep admiration for this man and our grief at his passing would so nearly console his wife and family as would the full achievement of the goals to which he devoted his life. That they will see it and thereby be consoled is my most earnest hope.
  