
    COLUMBUS, OH - Gary Dwyer, Secretary-Treasurer for the Ohio State Building and Construction Trades Council, and Barry Picket, Business Representative, Sheet Metal Workers International Association, Local 24, issued the following letter to Senator Obama, asking him to come clean on press reports that his campaign offered private assurances to Canadian officials downplaying his anti-NAFTA rhetoric.
The letter is as follows:


  March 1, 2008

Dear Senator Obama:
We were surprised and disappointed to learn that your top economic adviser reportedly had a secret meeting with a representative of the Canadian government where he dismissed your anti-NAFTA rhetoric.
According to Canadian news outlets, your adviser, Austan Goolsbee, told the Canadian Counsel General Georges Rioux that your criticism of NAFTA is "just politics" and should not be taken seriously.
After a series of misdirections and half-truths, it's time for you to come clean about your campaign's communications with the Canadian government about NAFTA. Enough with the non-denial denials and the Washington double-speak.
Many Ohioans are concerned about the issue of trade and we want answers to some simple questions:
1) Did you direct your top economic adviser - Austan Goolsbee - to tell the Canadian government that your speeches railing against NAFTA are just political rhetoric? If so, why?
2) Are you aware that Mr. Goolsbee held a secret meeting with the Canadian Counsel General Georges Rioux? Have you spoken with Mr. Goolsbee about that meeting and will you repudiate his comments?
3) Why has Mr. Goolsbee been unwilling to deny that he discussed your positions on NAFTA with Mr. Rioux? Why won't your campaign disclose the full details about that meeting?
4) Given these reports, why should Ohioans believe that you will act on the campaign promises you have made about NAFTA?
5) Sen. Clinton has issued a comprehensive plan to fix NAFTA. Why haven't you done so as well?
The people of Ohio are eager to hear from you - there's too much at stake.
Sincerely,
Gary Dwyer, Secretary-Treasurer, Ohio State Building and Construction Trades Council
Barry Pickett, Business Representative, Sheet Metal Workers International Association, Local 24
  