
    Yesterday, six Tallahassee area officials including Leon County Commissioners Rick Minor, Bill Proctor, and Kristin Dozier, State Representatives Loranne Ausley and Ramon Alexander, and Tallahassee City Commissioner Dianne Williams-Cox penned an op-ed in the Tallahassee Democrat urging Floridians to vote for Joe Biden on Tuesday. This is the first time Commissioners Dozier and Williams-Cox have made their support for Joe Biden public.
In their op-ed, these leaders cite Biden's ability to unite Americans and deliver on the issues they care most about, as well as the fact that Biden will be a President that Americans can look to and trust during moments of uncertainty and crisis.
Tallahassee Democrat: 6 local officials: Join us in voting for Joe Biden in Florida's primaryBy Ramon Alexander, Loranne Ausley, Kristin Dozier, Rick Minor, Bill Proctor and Dianne Williams-Cox, 3/14/20
This Tuesday, Florida Democrats will have an opportunity to cast their votes in our state's presidential primary election. We enthusiastically support former Vice President Joe Biden and we encourage all Democrats to choose him as the party's nominee.
Our country is in desperate need of strong leadership and restored credibility in the White House. Biden is the candidate who will bring experienced, thoughtful leadership at a time when our nation's future depends on it.
The coronavirus crisis has shown us – in stark terms – the importance of stable leadership and proven experience during times of national emergency. Over the past several days, Donald Trump has spread confusion about coronavirus testing and has repeatedly contradicted health experts within his own administration. In contrast, Biden has released a coronavirus response plan that is clear-eyed about the challenges, straightforward about the sacrifices we all must make to slow the spread of the disease, and reassures Americans that we can get through this together.
To be sure, this primary race has generated a fervent policy debate. Sen. Bernie Sanders has highlighted serious problems facing our nation: crushing student loan debt, a health care system that continues to deny millions of Americans quality, affordable care, and the existential crisis of climate change. We agree these are critical and urgent challenges, and we believe Biden is most capable of unifying the Democratic Party, winning the presidency and then working with Congress to tackle these issues.
Finally, we believe the character of our nation's president is paramount. Trump's narcissism, hateful tweets, repeated lies and attacks on the media and those who disagree with him do not reflect the behavior we expect from our chief executive. Biden is a fundamentally decent human being who believes every American must be treated with respect, dignity and compassion. We need a president who will lift people up, not tear them down.
This election is a battle for the survival of America's ideals. We endorse Biden as the best person to bring integrity back to the White House, rebuild our nation's middle class, improve our health care system, address climate change and demonstrate to our allies that America can be trusted. Just as important, Biden will work to heal the divisions that have been exacerbated by Trump's slash and burn presidency.
For these reasons we encourage every Florida Democrat to vote for Biden Tuesday. In these turbulent times, our future depends on it.
  