
    Pool Reports by Beatriz Pascual Macías, EFE Noticias



Sent:
Reports:




March 2, 202011:15 

Foreign pool report #1 - Colombian President
President of Colombia, Iván Duque, is meeting with President Trump at the Oval Office.
At the beginning of the meeting Trump said: "Thank you very much, it's my honor to have the president of Colombia with us. We have many things to discuss including borders, trade, and unfortunately drug trafficking." He said that it will be a "long session" and that the meeting was scheduled "quickly over the weekend"
Duque highlighted that Colombia is a "strong ally" of the United States, fighting corruption and because of its commitment to democracy in the region."
They got some questions and talked about drugs. One reporter asked about the spraying of the country's illegal plantings of coca. Trump answered: "well, you are gonna have to spray. If you don't spray you are not going to get rid of them. So you have to spray in regard to the drugs in Colombia".
Duque asked to talk just after Trump. He said: "Let me say something that is very important. You have to combine all the elements that we have, obviously the precision spray but also the record high we reach in 2019 on eradication, and also dismantling the drug cartels. So we have to work on all the elements, and we have to be very strongly against that crime. That crime is hurting our people and is hurting people everywhere and we have to work jointly in that effort as we have been doing so far".
--I will send more pools.



March 2, 202011:38 

Foreign pool report #2 - Trump talks about the coronavirus with Colombian President
Trump mentioned that he is going tonight to North Carolina for a rally.
"We are working very hard with the CDC with everybody on a subject that has become a very big subject, our country is doing very well, our professionals are doing really an incredibly job., We are also working with other countries to help them , because they really have a fear of the unknown, we are working very much with a lot of other countries, including Colombia"
"Again we are doing very well. Some additional people were reported. We are in good shape but we have additional people that were reported, and not very many in the United States. "
"I am also meeting with the pharmaceutical companies, right around this afternoon."
"We're talking about a vaccine; maybe a cure is possible. So, we'll see about that. But we're about a vaccine; and they're moving along very quickly, all of the pharmaceutical companies, are moving along very quickly"
"We've asked them to accelerate whatever they're doing in terms of a vaccine. Absolutely."



March 2, 202011:46 

Foreign pool report #3 - Trump and Colombian President about Venezuela
Trump said Venezuela is "a big subject for us". "The way they are treating the people of Venezuela is unbelievable badly, they don't have water, they don't have food, they don't have anything, that we are talking about, it is a big topic of discussion"
Duque said: "It is very important that we are stronger on sanctions against the dictatorship in Venezuela""They have destroyed all the healthcare system, so we have to work together jointly so there is a political and democratic transition that is effective in Venezuela"



March 2, 202012:17 

Foreign pool report #4 - Last quotes and background on the President Duque's visit.
Trump was asked about the inter-afghan negotiations and the deal with the taliban."We are getting out, we wanted to get out, we had a good meeting with the Taliban, and we are going to be leaving, and we are going to be bringing our soldiers back home. We have been there for almost 20 years, it has been a long time. We have done a great job in terms of getting rid of terrorists. Now is up to other countries to get rid of those terrorists.""We have discussions to go, but we made a lot of progress".
Background about President Duque's visit.* In the Oval Office, Trump was with Jared Kushner. He was supposed to be joined by Mark Esper and Robert C. O'Brien (I couldn't see if they were actually there).* In the Oval Office, Duque was with Colombian Defense Minister Carlos Holmes Trujillo; and Colombian Foreign Affairs Minister Claudia Blum. Supposedly, in the meeting were also supposed to be Colombian Ambassador to the United States Francisco Santos; and Colombian Commerce Minister José Manuel Restrepo.(But I could not see them).* Duque today already addressed the AIPAC 2020 Policy Conference. Later, in the afternoon, he is going to sign an Agreement with the Head of Inter-American Development Bank (IDB)
(Thank you all for your help today. Beatriz Pascual Macias, EFE)




 
Pool Reports below by Lachlan Markay, Axios



Sent:
Reports:




March 2, 202010:41 

In town print pool #1: pool gathering
In-house pool has been summoned to the briefing room doors. More to come.



March 2, 202010:49 

In town print pool #2: POTUS on coronavirus vaccine
In an oval office spray, the president says a meeting with pharmaceutical executives today originally scheduled to discuss drug prices will instead be used to discuss a coronavirus vaccine.
"We're talking about a vaccine, maybe even a cure," the president said. 
Full remarks to come.



March 2, 202011:07 

In town print pool #3: POTUS on COVID19, Venezuela, NC rally
Pool was ushered into the Oval Office at 10:41, where President Trump was seated with Colombian president Iván Duque Márquez. 
"This was scheduled very quickly over the weekend and we look forward to meeting," President Trump said of their meeting today. "We have many things to discuss, including borders and trade, and unfortunately drugs and drug trafficking and we’re gonna have a good long session."
On coronavirus, the president said:
"We’re working very hard with the CDC, with everybody, on a subject that has become a very big subject. The country’s doing very well, our professionals are doing an incredible job. We’re also working with other countries to help them because they really have a fear of the unknown. We’re working very much with a lot of other countries, including Colombia...with respect to this problem."
"Some additional people were reported. They’re in good shape, but we have some additional people that were reported. Not very many in the United States." 
"Also I’m meeting with the pharmaceutical companies later on this afternoon, we have a big meeting with the biggest companies...We’re talking about a vaccine, maybe a cure, it’s possible, we’ll see about that...We’ve asked them to accelerate whatever they’re doing in terms of a vaccine...This meeting was set up before and that was about drug prices...We brought the numbers down, the first time in 51 years that the drug prices, prescription, have come down."
On whether it's safe to hold a rally amid the coronavirus outbreak:
"Well this was set up a long time ago and others are. You could ask that to the Democrats...They’re all having rallies, that’s what they’re doing, they’re campaigning...I think it’s very safe."
On his rally tonight more generally:
"Tonight as you know we’ll be going to North Carolina, we have a big rally scheduled, and that should be—i think thousands of people are already up there waiting. So we’re gonna have hopefully a good time. We’re gonna make a lot of good predictions there also."
On Venezuela:
"One of the things we’re talking about is Venezuela. They’re treating the people of Venezuela unbelievably badly,. They don’t have water, they don't have food, they don't have anything, and we are talking about that. That’s a big topic of discussion."
Pool was ushered out of the Oval at 10:48.



March 2, 202012:08 

In town print pool #4: lunch lid
We have a lunch lid until 1 PM.



March 2, 202013:57 

In town print pool #5: Ghani call readout
The press office sends along this readout of President Trump's call with Afghan president Ashraf Ghani yesterday:
"Yesterday, President Donald J. Trump spoke to President Ashraf Ghani of Afghanistan to congratulate him on the recent important steps made toward achieving peace in Afghanistan. The two leaders agreed that Saturday’s announcement of the United States-Afghanistan Joint Declaration and the Agreement for Bringing Peace to Afghanistan were important milestones for the Afghan peace process. They further agreed to stay in touch as the peace process moves into the next phase, which involves negotiations among Afghans for a comprehensive and permanent ceasefire and roadmap for the political future of the country."



March 2, 202012:17 

In town print pool #6: COVID19 meeting details
The press office sends these details on the president's upcoming meeting with coronavirus stakeholders:
Today, President Donald J. Trump will meet with pharmaceutical companies who are actively working to develop the COVID-19 vaccine to discuss how the United States Federal Government can help accelerate vaccine development.
The Trump Administration continues its whole-of-government approach to combatting the spread of coronavirus because the safety of the American people remains the highest priority for President Trump.
The following individuals are expected to attend:
The White House
President Donald J. TrumpVice President Mike PenceMick Mulvaney, Acting White House Chief of StaffChris Liddell, Assistant to the President and Deputy Chief of Staff for Policy CoordinationKellyanne Conway, Assistant to the President and Senior CounselorMarc Short, Assistant to the President and Chief of Staff to the Vice PresidentLarry Kudlow, Assistant to the President and Director of the National Economic CouncilJoseph Grogan, Assistant to the President and Director of the Domestic Policy CouncilTim Pataki, Deputy Assistant to the President and Director of the Office of Public LiaisonAmbassador Debbie Brix, White House Corona Virus Response Coordinator
Trump Administration
Secretary Alex Azar, Department of Health and Human ServicesDr. Robert Redfield, Director, Centers for Disease Control and PreventionDr. Anne Schuchat, Principal Deputy Director, Centers for Disease Control and PreventionDr. Stephen Hahn, Commissioner of Food and Drugs, Food and Drug AdministrationDr. Anthony Fauci, Director, National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases
Executives of Pharmaceutical Companies
Emma Walmsley, CEO, GlaxoSmithKlineDr. J. Joseph Kim, CEO, Inovio PharmaceuticalsStéphane Bancel, CEO, ModernaDr. Leonard Schleifer, CEO, Regeneron PharmaceuticalsStan C. Erck, CEO, President, and Director, NovoraxDaniel Menichella, CEO, CureVacDavid O'Day, Chairman of the Board of Directors and CEO, GileadDr. Paul Stoffels, Vice Chairman of the Executive Committee and Chief Scientific Officer, Johnson and JohnsonDr. Mikael Dolsten, Chief Scientific Officer and President Worldwide Research, Development and Medical, Pfizer Inc.John Shiver, Senior Vice President, Global Vaccine Research and Development, Sanofi



March 2, 202016:20 

In town print pool #7: Trump teases new travel restrictions
President Trump announced at his meeting with pharmaceutical companies that his administration is eyeing new travel restrictions to try to prevent the spread of the coronavirus.
"Yes, we are," the president in response to a press question, "from certain countries where they're having more of a breakout." He declined up name the specific countries.
Fuller remarks TK



March 2, 202016:42 

In town print pool #8: Marine One departure
The president emerged from the West Wing at 4:33 and took a few questions from the pool. The Democratic presidential nominating contest, he said, is "rigged against Bernie, no doubt about it." He spectated that Amy Klobuchar and Pete Buttigieg may dropped out and/or endorsed Joe Biden in exchange for a position in his administration. "That's called a quid pro quo, right? Quid. Pro. Quo."
POTUS boarded Marine One at 4:36. Wheels up to North Carolina at 4:40.
Will be sending out more details on the coronavirus meeting shortly.



March 2, 202017:01 

In town print pool #9: more on COVID19 meeting
President Trump, Vice President Pence, and other members of the administration's coronavirus task force assembled in the cabinet room with executives of some of the world's largest pharmaceutical companies (full attendee list in pool report #6). Everyone's goal, the president said, is to "accelerate the development" of vaccines and therapies to mitigate and stop the spread of coronavirus. It's a "great challenge," the president said, "but everyone's responded very well." 
The president touted his administration's steps to control the spread so far, including restricting travel across the southern border and "sweeping travel restrictions." He also teased new travel restrictions from a number of unnamed nations, as noted in today's print pool #7.
POTUS also cited his tax reform law's impact on the pharmaceutical industry, which he said "shows the importance of bringing that manufacturing back to America." In general, he said "we will continue to do exactly what we're doing" to address the coronavirus threat.
Attendees at the meeting introduced themselves, and the pharmaceutical executives present recapped their efforts to develop vaccines and therapeutic treatments. The president listened and occasionally interjected to press them on how quickly those treatments could be safely and effectively developed and deployed.
The consensus seemed to be that therapeutic human trials could begin this spring, as early as April, but that a vaccine would, per National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases director Dr. Anthony Fauci, take at least a year to a year and a half to develop.
The president nonetheless seemed enthused at the prospect of therapies to treat the coronavirus even in the absence of a vaccine. A successful therapeutic treatment "in my opinion, in this case, would be better," he said. He pledged that his administration would seek to reduce red tape for companies working towards such a treatment.
The president also attempted to put the problem in perspective, noting that there are between 25,000 and 70,000 influenza diagnoses in the country ever year. "Here we're talking about a much smaller range," he said. "Hopefully it stays that way."
Health and Human Services secretary Alex Azar also urged a measured response to the threat. "We're going to see more cases," he cautioned, and "we need to be prepared...People should not be panicked...but there are steps people can take," and urged Americans to visit CDC.gov to read about those steps.
The president and VP Pence both commended the companies present for pledging to share information and otherwise collaborate to more quickly development effective coronavirus treatments. "You're competitors but in this case it's different," the president said. "I love the complementary, if you can do that."
Asked whether the president would considering steering additional federal funds to any of the companies present to expedite R&D, the president seemed cool to the idea, though he indicated his administration would work to streamline the federal drug process to get treatments to market.
"Some of them are so rich," he joked about the drug companies present, "they can actually loan money to the federal government."
Asked about the state of the economy amid a tumultuous financial week, the president noted that "the market's up today" and insisted, "our country's very strong economically." But he said that he would like to see the Federal Reserve do more to address the financial challenges posted by the coronavirus spread.
"I don't think the Fed's looking at it," he said, "but they should be."



March 2, 202017:16 

In town print pool #10: POTUS plans for annual physical
Forgot to include in my report on the president's remarks prior to Marine One departure: he updated the pool on his plans to visit Walter Reed Medical Center for his annual physical examination.
"I'm going probably over the next 90 days," he said. "I'm so busy I can't do it!"



March 2, 202017:30 

In town print pool #11: Pence two-minute warning
Just got the two minute warning to VP Pence's on-camera briefing on issues pertaining to coronavirus.



March 2, 202022:28 

In town print pool #12: arrival and lid
Marine One touched down on a rainy and windy south lawn at 10:20. The president disembarked under an umbrella and entered the south portico at 10:23.
A travel/photo lid was called at 10:26. Have a great night!




 
Pool Reports below by John Fritze, USA TODAY



Sent:
Reports:




March 2, 202016:58 

Out of town pool report #1 / JBA
Good evening from Joint Base Andrews, where it's breezy and spritzing but at least warm. Marine One put wheels to tarmac at 4:48 p.m. (x-apple-data-detectors://0) and the president emerged a few minutes later clutching to an umbrella. He did not stop to speak to reporters before climbing the stairs and boarding the plane. Among the aides flying with the president on this Super Tuesday eve: Scavino, Miller, Mulvaney, Deere and Ueland. Among the members of Congress traveling with the president, per the White House: Reps. Foxx, McHenry, Hudson, Meadows, Rouzer, Greg Murphy.Air Force One is rolling at 457 p.m.



March 2, 202018:16 

Out of town pool report #2 / Charlotte
Air Force One touched down at Charlotte Douglas International Airport at 5:58 p.m. after an uneventful if somewhat turbulent flight. We had no visitors to the press cabin during the 56-minute ride.
The president emerged from the plane at 6:12 p.m. and shook hands with greeters on the tarmac with the sun setting behind him. About 100 well wishers had gathered on the tarmac. The president gave them a wave but went straight to the car, not taking questions.
President Trump's motorcade is rolling from the airport at 6:15 pm.Also on the flight and getting off the plane with POTUS, in addition to folks I noted earlier, Ronna McDaniel and David BossieToday's greeters, per the White House:The President is met by:
Senator Lindsey GrahamUnited States Senator from South Carolina
Representative Ted BuddUnited States Representative of North Carolina's 13th Congressional District
Representative Dan BishopUnited States Representative of North Carolina's 9th Congressional District
MG Jim ErnstAssistant Adjutant General, North Carolina Joint Force Headquarters, Raleigh, NC
Col Bryony TerrellCommander, 145th Airlift Wing, North Carolina Air National Guard
SrA Cory HughesWing Commander, 145th Air Wing, North Carolina Air National Guard
Chairman Michael WhatleyChairman of the North Carolina Republican Party



March 2, 202018:35 

Out of town travel pool #3 / Bojangles
The president's motorcade arrived at Bojangles' Coliseum at 6:31 p.m., though the pool did not put eyes on him as he entered.
The rally itself begins at 7 p.m. EST.



March 2, 202020:18 

Out of town pool report #4 / rally wrapping up
Pool is repositioning at 8:18 p.m. in preparation for leaving Bojangles' Coliseum just as the president is wrapping up. He started at 7:15 p.m.
Regarding Super Tuesday, Trump said the Democratic candidates lacked the enthusiasm of his campaign. "There's not a lot of enthusiasm for Biden," the president told his supporters. On Buttigieg and Klobuchar, in regards to Biden, Trump repeated his quid pro quo line: "They made a deal. You know what? Quid pro quo, that's what. Impeach them. They should be impeached."
On his rally schedule aligning with Democratic primary states: "We like to troll."
On coronavirus, the president pointed to the meeting at the White House today with pharmaceutical executives. "They're really working hard and they're working smart. They're going to have vaccines, I think, relatively soon," he said. "Washington Democrats are trying to politicize the coronavirus, denigrating the noble work of our public health professionals," he said.
Trump said his administration is encouraging the quick development of coronavirus therapies: "We will bring these therapies to market as rapidly as possible."
The president, who didn't say much about the market at his rally in South Carolina last week, returned to it early in his remarks here: "Today we just had the largest one day increase in the stock market in history. That was great," he said to deafening cheers.
Touting his investment in military bases, Trump claimed that Democrats wouldn't make similar investments because Democrats "don't like the military."
Brought on stage: Sen. Lindsey Graham, Diamond and Silk, Sen. Thom Tillis. The president shouted out to Corey Lewandowski, David Bossie, Pam Bondi, Ronna McDaniel, Lara Trump, Eric Trump and the members of the state's congressional delegation who traveled down with him on AF1.



March 2, 202020:28 

Out of town pool report #5 / rolling
The president wrapped up his rally remarks at 8:19 p.m. Motorcade started rolling from Bojangles at 8:28 p.m.



March 2, 202020:46 

Out of town pool report #6 / Mitsotakis
From the White House:
Today, President Donald J. Trump spoke with Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis of Greece. The President expressed his support for Greece's efforts to secure its borders and encouraged Greece to work with regional partners to address the mass movement of migrants into Europe.



March 2, 202020:55 

Out of town pool report #7 / Leaving Charlotte
The president's motorcade had a lovely view of downtown Charlotte as we zipped along closed highways in the dark on the way back to Charlotte Douglas. We arrived at the airport at 8:42 p.m. The president had already climbed the steps before the press vans pulled up to the plane.
AF1 is rolling down the runway at 8:55 p.m.



March 2, 202022:09 

Out of town pool report #8/ JBA
Air Force One touched down in wind and rain at Joint Base Andrews at 9:52 p.m. after an unremarkable 54 minute flight. Corey Lewandowski and David Bossie visited the press cabin briefly and exchanged pleasantries. The president emerged from the plane at 10:03 pm holding a large umbrella. Marine One was wheels up at 10:09 pm.
Handing off to the in-town pool.




  