
    We have come together as Ohio business leaders to support Governor John Kasich's candidacy for President of the United States of America.
We are democrats, republicans and independents. But we are Americans first.
As we all know, this has been an odd election season, with campaigning built around bullying and insults rather than substantive issues. While this circus unfolds, real issues that affect each of us and our businesses are not getting the attention they need. If ever there was a time for a serious, thoughtful presidential process, it is now, and yet it isn't happening.
After watching the March 3rd Republican debate it is clear that there is only one participant who has the experience, judgment and temperament to be President – John Kasich.
We love Ohio and are grateful for all that Governor Kasich has done to lift up our state and our people. If you have supported John Kasich already, now is the time to consider doubling down on your financial support and advocacy. If you have yet to commit, the time to choose is quickly coming to a close. If not John Kasich, who? If not now, when?
Governor Kasich must win Ohio next Tuesday. Join us now to make this happen.
Signed by:
Titles and affiliations are for identification only and do not constitute an "endorsement" by the entity.
Thomas Adler, community volunteer
Monte Ahuja, Chairman, MURA Holdings, LLC
Nick Akins, Chairman, President and CEO, American Electric Power
Steve Allen, healthcare executive
David Blom, President and CEO, OhioHealth
James Boland, Ernst & Young (retired Vice Chairman)
Greg Carmichael, President and CEO, Fifth Third Bank
Robert H. Castellini, Chairman, Castellini Company and Owner/CEO, Cincinnati Reds
Tom Cecconi, healthcare executive
Rick Chiricosta, Chairman, President and CEO, Medical Mutual of Ohio
Michael D. Connelly, healthcare executive
Philip R. Cox, Chairman and CEO, Cox Financial
Tanny Crane, President and CEO, Crane Group
Chad Delligatti, President, InnoSource
Robert Falkenberg, CEO – Ohio, United Health
Scott Farmer, Chief Executive Officer, Cintas
Tom Feeney, President and CEO, Safelite Group/Safelite Auto Glass
Michael Fisher, healthcare executive
Harley I. Gross, Partner, Gross Builders
Jim Hagedorn, Chairman and CEO, Scotts Miracle-Gro
James Hambrick, Chairman, President and CEO, Lubrizol Corporation
Joseph Hamrock, President and CEO, NiSource
Jack Hanna, Jack Hanna's Into the Wild
Dee Haslam, Co-Owner, Cleveland Browns
Jimmy Haslam, Co-Owner, Cleveland Browns
Gary R. Heminger, Chairman, President and CEO, Marathon Petroleum
Erin Hoeflinger, President – Ohio, Anthem
Carole Hoover, President and CEO, Hoover Milstein
Richard A. Horvitz, Moreland Management Company
Dave Johnson, Chairman and CEO, Summitville Tiles, Inc.
Chuck Jones, President and CEO, FirstEnergy
Andrew Jackson, Owner, AJ Automotive Group
John W. Kessler, Chairman, New Albany Company
Robert Klein, Chairman, RIK Enterprises
Matt Kramer, professional services executive
Milton Maltz, Founder, The Malrite Company
Christopher Mapes, Chairman, President and CEO, Lincoln Electric
Craig Marshall, professional services executive
John P. McConnell, Chairman and CEO, Worthington Industries
John McEwan, professional services executive
Sam Miller, Co-Chairman Emeritus, Forest City Realty Trust
Mal Mixon, Invacare (retired Chairman, President and CEO)
Pam Morris, President and CEO, CareSource
Dennis Nash, Chairman and CEO, Kenan Advantage Group
Ambassador John Ong (retired)
Richard W. Pogue, Senior Advisor, Jones Day
Albert B. Ratner, Co-Chairman Emeritus, Forest City Realty Trust
Michael Roizen, MD, Chief Wellness Officer, Cleveland Clinic
Edward Roth, President and CEO, Aultman Health
Robert H. Schottenstein, Chairman and CEO, M/I Homes
Charna E. Sherman, Charna E. Sherman Law Offices Co., LPA
Rajesh Soin, Founder, Chairman and CEO, Soin International
Stephen D. Steinour, Chairman, President and CEO, Huntington Bancshares
Frank C. Sullivan, Chairman and CEO, RPM International
Robert Tannous, Managing Partner, Porter, Wright, Morris and Arthur
Michael H. Thaman, Chairman and CEO, Owens Corning
Ambassador W. R. Timken, Jr. (retired) and Sue Timken
Ward J. Timken, Jr., Chairman, CEO and President, TimkenSteel
Kurtis A. Tunnell, Managing Partner, Bricker & Eckler
George Vincent, Managing Partner and Chairman of the Board of Directors, Dinsmore
Donald Washkewicz, Parker Hannifin (retired Chairman, President and CEO)
Bill Weber, Chairman, Air Enterprises
Morry Weiss, Chairman, American Greetings Corporation
Leslie H. Wexner, Chairman and CEO, L Brands
Thomas L. Williams, President, North American Properties
John F. Wolfe, Chairman, The Dispatch Printing Company
  