
    STATEMENT OF ADMINISTRATION POLICY
(Senate)(Simon (D) IL and 2 others)
The Administration supports the bipartisan objective of improving the Job Training Partnership Act (JTPA) to enhance its responsiveness to the labor market of the 1990s. S. 2055 advances this objective and begins to address the problems of the job training system that the President committed to reform in the Job Training 2000 initiative. Far more drastic restructuring is needed, but this bill incorporates some of the key provisions of S. 1404, the Administration's original JTPA proposal. For example, S. 2055 would: (1) target services toward youth and adults most at risk in the job market; (2) enhance program quality through individual assessments, service strategies, and addressing basic skills deficiencies; and (3) make significant fiscal and administrative improvements in the JTPA program.
While the Administration has concerns about certain provisions in S. 2055, the bill represents an important step towards enhancing the employability of economically disadvantaged youth and adults. Therefore, the Administration supports Senate passage of S. 2055; and will work to have its concerns addressed in the final version of the legislation. The Administration's primary concerns are:

—   Summer Youth. S. 2055 retains a separate Summer Youth Program. The Administration supports integrating the summer program into a year-round program.
—   Cost Categories. While the bill adopts the approach of S. 1404 regarding cost categories and limitations, it includes case management, assessment, and counseling within the "direct training" category. These services are not direct training and should be included in the training- related services cost category.
—   Services to Older Workers. S. 2055 retains the State set- aside program for older individuals in current law. The Administration believes that older individuals would be better served by the local set-aside proposed in S. 1404.
—   State Human Resource Investment Council. The Administration strongly supports the establishment of a new State Human Resource Investment Council. Such a council would provide a focal point at the State level for coordinating human resource development programs and for better integrating services. The Administration will work to have this provision incorporated in the Conference Report.
—   Targeting of Funds. The bill does not revise the funding formula to improve the targeting of resources for the adult and youth programs. Funds should be distributed based primarily on a local area's share of the eligible population that is economically disadvantaged, rather than the number of unemployed.
—   Authorization Levels. The authorization levels in S. 2055 are excessive and far beyond any reasonable funding levels available to the Administration and the Appropriations Committee. These authorization levels will require the Appropriations Committees to revisit funding issues. 
  