
    Today, United Food and Commercial Workers (UFCW) Union Local 876 and 951 in Michigan announced their endorsement of Joe Biden for President of the United States.
"Biden has a proven track record of standing up and doing what is right for working Americans," said UFCW 876 President Dan Pedersen. "876 believes the Biden campaign has the fortitude and strength to secure the professionals, experts and leaders needed to protect collective bargaining, affordable health care and fair education opportunities for all Americans."
"Joe Biden has made a career of standing up for working people and their families," said UFCW 951 President John Cakmakci. "UFCW 951 is proud to stand with him on behalf of our nearly 33,000 members and their families," John Cakmakci, UFCW 951's president, said. "Joe Biden knows we all rise when workers receive a fair days pay for a fair day's work, which builds a stronger Michigan for everyone."
UFCW Local 876 and 951 represent over 51,000 members across Michigan in the retail, meatpacking, hospitality, and food processing and manufacturing sector and join a growing list of prominent Michigan leaders supporting Biden, including Governor Gretchen Whitmer, former Governor Jennifer Granholm, and former Michigan Senator Carl Levin. In addition, the Michigan Democratic Party Black Caucus, Detroit Mayor Mike Duggan, State Representatives Joe Tate, Karen Whitsett, and Tenisha Yancey, and State Senator Marshall Bullock have also endorsed Biden.
National unions have also endorsed Biden, including the International Association of Firefighters (IAFF), International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers (IBEW), International Association of Bridge, Structural and Ornamental Iron Workers (IW), Amalgamated Transit Union (ATU), Operative Plasterers' & Cement Masons' International Association (OPCMIA). The American Federation of Federation of Teachers (AFT) also encouraged members to support Biden among two other candidates.
Nationally, Biden for President has previously announced more than 1,500 endorsements from national, state, and local leaders, including current and former U.S. senators and representatives, governors, state elected officials, community leaders, and national security professionals.
  