
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

The Actors' Fund of America has given dedicated service to members of the entertainment industry for more than one hundred years. Its history is the magnificent story of an organization built upon the generosity of entertainers -- not only as a charitable organization, but as the "conscience" of their community.
Although it is the oldest theatrical charity in the world, the Fund's services are not confined to actors; they are available to any bona fide professional who works in motion pictures, radio, television, ballet, opera, variety, circus, and the legitimate stage. Those services, designed to accommodate the special needs of members of the entertainment community, range from financial assistance and career counseling to home nursing care. Through its actions, the Fund carries on the great American tradition of community. It is a tradition steeped in its values of concern for one another -- the obligation borne of community to help another in need.
In a less direct manner, the Actors' Fund of America benefits our entire country. As the Fund assists entertainers, entertainers, in turn, donate their time and talents to many worthy causes throughout the United States. Performing artists have raised the morale of our Nation's Armed Forces in peacetime and in time of war. They have demonstrated selfless generosity of countless charitable events, bringing help to the needy and joy to the sick. And by their shining example, they demonstrate to all Americans that any definition of a successful life must include serving others. This Proclamation provides the opportunity for a grateful nation to say "thank you."
The Congress, by Public Law 100-686, has designated the month of April 1989 as "Actors' Fund of America Appreciation Month."
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim April 1989 as Actors' Fund of America Appreciation Month. I call upon all Americans to observe this month with appropriate ceremonies and activities.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-fourth day of March, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-nine, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and thirteenth.

GEORGE BUSH
  