
    AT THE invitation of the United States Government, the President of the Federal Executive Council of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, Dzemal Bijedic, accompanied by his wife, is visiting Washington, D.C., from March 19 to 21, 1975.
The President of the United States of America, Gerald R. Ford, gave a luncheon in honor of the President of the Federal Executive Council at the White House March 19. During their talks, the President of the Federal Executive Council conveyed to the President of the United States a message from the President of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, Josip Broz Tito. The talks took place in an atmosphere of cordiality and openness.
The President of the Federal Executive Council will hold talks on bilateral relations and international questions of interest to the two countries with the Acting Secretary of State, Robert S. Ingersoll, who together with Mrs. Ingersoll are giving a dinner on behalf of the United States Government in honor of the President of the Federal Executive Council and Mrs. Bijedic March 19. The President of the Federal Executive Council will meet with the Secretary of Commerce, Frederick B. Dent, the President of the Export-Import Bank, William C. Casey, and the President of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation, Marshall T. Mays. These meetings will focus on trade and other forms of economic cooperation between Yugoslavia and the United States.
The two sides devoted particular attention to areas of continuing crisis such as the Middle East and Cyprus. In setting forth their views concerning the paths to be followed in attempting to resolve these and other outstanding world problems, the two sides emphasized the benefit of regular contacts and consultation at all levels to heighten understanding and mutual respect for one another's views and positions.
Reaffirming their mutual interest in the preservation and consolidation of peace in Europe and the further advancement of constructive cooperation among European states in a wide variety of fields, the two sides emphasized their determination and mutual interest in the continued coordination of efforts to attain acceptance of basic principles of inter-European cooperation and security, and an early, successful conclusion of the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe.
Both sides expressed continued determination to strive for effective disarmament measures which would strengthen the peace and security of all peoples.
The two sides affirmed that solutions to the problems which presently face mankind must be sought by peaceful means on the basis of respect for the principles of the Charter of the United Nations and the sovereign equality of all states irrespective of size or social, political and economic system. In this regard, it was recognized that Yugoslavia's policy of non-alignment contributes actively to greater understanding among peoples and the pursuit of peaceful resolution of international problems and conflicts.
Economic problems currently facing the world were discussed in the context of growing international interdependence. The two sides stressed the importance of finding solutions to such problems as energy and other raw materials, food, population, the environment, and economic development. They agreed that genuine peace and stability in the world depend on the achievement of significant progress toward the resolution of these problems, and that such progress can best be achieved by cooperative efforts and agreements which take into account the rights and interests of all countries, and not by confrontation.
The two sides expressed satisfaction that continued progress has been registered in bilateral cooperation between the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the United States of America. They noted particularly the substantial and continuing growth of trade between the two countries in recent years and agreed to act to promote continued economic and financial cooperation, including joint investments. Both sides also expressed a desire to maintain a high level of joint scientific research between institutions and individual scientists of the two countries.
They also reaffirmed their intention to encourage the further expansion of cultural cooperation, reiterating their expectation that the participation of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia in the forthcoming bicentennial of the United States of America will serve to deepen understanding between the peoples of the two countries. They also affirmed the importance to the development of the United States of America of American citizens of Yugoslav extraction who constitute an important link of friendship and communication between the peoples of the two countries.
The two sides underscored once again the continuing validity of the principles set forth in the Joint Statement of October 30, 1971, which constitutes a solid basis for stable, friendly relations and a broad spectrum of mutually beneficial cooperation between the two countries.
  