
    Today, Biden for President is announcing new endorsements in Arkansas, including State Senator Will Bond, and State Representatives Andrew Collins and Tippi McCullough.
"I have always been a huge fan of Vice President Biden's decency, sincerity, and impressive record of public service. With the field narrowing, only Joe Biden has the ability to unite us all together to make sure the ladder to American Dream is accessible to all. He will expand health coverage and lower drug costs for all, attack the climate crisis, and get a handle on the out of control deficit. We know Joe, and Joe knows how to get things done for all of us," said State Senator Will Bond.
"It's time for a new President, and Arkansas has an extraordinary chance to help choose one. We need someone experienced, good to the core, and focused on solutions. Someone who genuinely connects with people across race, class, and party. Joe Biden's exuberance, how he rode the train every day, his stories of heartbreaking loss, how he really gets working people and they get him, how he likes them and they like him -- that isn't window dressing, that's everything. That's connecting with people so you can effectively serve them, and that's the heart of public service. Joe Biden is all about people, and he refuses to write anyone off. The qualities embodied by this outlook, like empathy, humor, compassion, inclusion, and selflessness, will make him the strongest candidate in November and a great President when he gets there. One who understands our diversity, never forgets who he's serving, and maybe even finds ways to bridge our most painful divides. Joe is for people. And that's why I'm for Joe," said State Representative Andrew Collins.
"I'm proud of the work Joe Biden did as Vice President and the issues important to him before that. I admire the courage and perseverance he has exhibited when faced with tragedy and hardship. I believe him to be kind, dependable, and trustworthy. I'm proud to now add my support to his inclusive campaign for President of the United States," said State Representative Tippi McCullough.
Today's endorsements add to the growing momentum Joe Biden has established in Arkansas, a critical Super Tuesday state. She joins State Representatives Jamie Scott and Frederick Love, State Senator Linda Chesterfield, and former U.S. Senators Mark Pryor and David Pryor, and Blanche Lincoln, in supporting Joe Biden. Biden has been building a broad and diverse coalition across the South, winning the support of Atlanta Mayor Keisha Lance Bottoms, Birmingham Mayor Randall Woodfin, Senator Doug Jones, Congresswoman Terri Sewell, Georgia State Rep. Pedro Marin, and other community leaders.
Biden for President has previously announced more than 1,500 endorsements from national, state, and local leaders, including current and former U.S. senators and representatives, governors, state elected officials, community leaders, and national security professionals.
  