
    Henry E. Autrey, of Missouri, to be United States District Judge for the Eastern District of Missouri, vice George F. Gunn, Jr., retired.
Carmel Borders, of Kentucky, to be a Member of the National Institute for Literacy Advisory Board for a term of three years. (New Position)
Michael D. Brown, of Colorado, to be Deputy Director of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, vice Robert M. Walker, resigned.
Douglas Carnine, of Oregon, to be a Member of the National Institute for Literacy Advisory Board for a term of three years. (New Position)
David S. Cercone, of Pennsylvania, to be United States District Judge for the Western District of Pennsylvania, vice Donald J. Lee, retired.
Robert Davila, of New York, to be a Member of the National Council on Disability for a term expiring September 17, 2003, vice John D. Kemp, term expired.
Richard E. Dorr, of Missouri, to be United States District Judge for the Western District of Missouri, vice D. Brook Bartlett, deceased.
Morrison C. England, Jr., of California, to be United States District Judge for the Eastern District of California, vice Lawrence K. Karlton, retired.
Blanca E. Enriquez, of Texas, to be a Member of the National Institute for Literacy Advisory Board for a term of three years. (New Position)
Lex Frieden, of Texas, to be a Member of the National Council on Disability for a term expiring September 17, 2004, vice Marca Bristo, term expired.
Ronald Henderson, of Missouri, to be United States Marshal for the Eastern District of Missouri for the term of four years, vice Floyd A. Kimbrough, resigned.
William T. Hiller, of Ohio, to be a Member of the National Institute for Literacy Advisory Board for a term of one year. (New Position)
Young Woo Kang, of Indiana, to be a Member of the National Council on Disability for a term expiring September 17, 2003, vice Debra Robinson, term expired.
Kathleen Martinez, of California, to be a Member of the National Council on Disability for a term expiring September 17, 2003, vice Rae E. Unzicker, term expired.
Robin Morris, of Georgia, to be a Member of the National Institute for Literacy Advisory Board for a term of one year. (New Position)
Carol Hughes Novak, of Georgia, to be a Member of the National Council on Disability for a term expiring September 17, 2004, vice Gina McDonald, term expired.
Juan R. Olivarez, of Michigan, to be a Member of the National Institute for Literacy Advisory Board for a term of one year. (New Position)
Jean Osborn, of Illinois, to be a Member of the National Institute for Literacy Advisory Board for a term of two years. (New Position)
Patricia Pound, of Texas, to be a Member of the National Council on Disability for a term expiring September 17, 2002, vice Ela Yazzie-King, term expired.
Timothy J. Savage, of Pennsylvania, to be United States District Judge for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, vice Edward N. Cahn, retired.
Amy J. St. Eve, of Illinois, to be United States District Judge for the Northern District of Illinois, vice George W. Lindberg, retired.
Kenneth Y. Tomlinson, of Virginia, to be a Member of the Broadcasting Board of Governors for a term expiring August 13, 2004, vice Tom C. Korologos, term expired.
Kenneth Y. Tomlinson, of Virginia, to be Chairman of the Broadcasting Board of Governors, vice Marc B. Nathanson.
Kathleen P. Utgoff, of Virginia, to be Commissioner of Labor Statistics, United States Department of Labor for a term of four years, vice Katherine G. Abraham, term expired.
  