
    Strong in Rhode Island: A new poll has Hillary up by 9 points over Sen. Obama (49-40)... Today, volunteers canvass in Providence, Warwick, Johnston, and Cranston... Yesterday, the Warwick Democratic City Committee endorsed Hillary and Chelsea met with students at Roger Williams University in Bristol.
In the News: CBS examines Hillary's record. Watch.
Previewing Today: Hillary attends rallies in Fort Worth and Dallas, Texas... President Bill Clinton joins Gov. Ted Strickland for events in Kirtland and Lakewood, Ohio... Chelsea meets students at Case Western University in Cleveland and attends an "Ohio Women Make History" rally in Akron, Ohio.
If You Watch One Thing Today: Jack Nicholson touts Hillary. Watch.
By the Numbers: Nearly 60 percent of Americans support a mandate requiring the purchase of health coverage, according to a new poll from National Public Radio, the Kaiser Family Foundation, and the Harvard School of Public Health. Read more.
If You Read One Thing Today: Vermont Woman Newspaper endorsed Hillary. Read more.
Active in the States: Today in Vermont, former Gov. Madeleine Kunin makes a campaign stop in Burlington and kicks-off a phone bank in South Burlington. Volunteers conduct visibility in Norwich, Brattleboro, Rutland, and Bennington... In Ohio, the campaign continues "88 Hours, 88 Counties to Victory." Ohio for Hillary will hold events in all of Ohio's 88 counties during the last 88 hours before the polls open on Tuesday.
Real Solutions: Hillary outlined her proposals to honor our service members and veterans. Read more.
Stumping for Hillary: Today in Ohio, former Secretary of State Madeleine Albright addresses a University of Cincinnati Student Forum, New Jersey Gov. Jon Corzine campaigns in Columbus and West Jefferson, Rep. Laura Richardson stumps in Columbus, Rep. Stephanie Tubbs Jones and Rev. Marcia Dyson attend the "Ohio Women Make History" rally in Akron, Rep. Nydia Velazquez campaigns in Lorain, Rep. Allyson Schwartz thanks volunteers in Cleveland, former Maryland Lt. Gov. Kathleen Kennedy Townsend greets supporters in Youngstown, and EMILY's List President and Founder Ellen Malcolm and actress Melanie Griffith campaign in Ravenna and Kent.
Looking Ahead: Today in Wyoming, Hillary supporters gather in Cheyenne and Casper for a statewide phone bank and New Mexico Lt. Gov. Diane Denish meets with voters in Cheyenne... This weekend in Pennsylvania, the campaign holds more than 40 activist meetings around the state.
In Case You Missed It: According to press reports, Sen. Obama's campaign offered private assurances to Canadian officials downplaying Sen. Obama's anti-NAFTA rhetoric. Yesterday, Sen. Obama's top economic advisor admitted to meeting with the Canadian consul general – but refused to deny that he discussed NAFTA in this meeting.
  