
    WASHINGTON – Today, President Barack Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individual to a key administration post:
•      David K. Mineta, Deputy Director for Demand Reduction, Office of National Drug Control Policy, Executive Office of the President
President Obama also announced his intent to appoint several individuals to serve on the Recovery Independent Advisory Panel. Their bios are below.
President Obama said, "These impressive individuals will be valued additions to our team as we work to confront the challenges facing our nation. I look forward to working with them in the months and years to come."
President Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individual to a key administration post:
David K. Mineta, Nominee for Deputy Director for Demand Reduction, Office of National Drug Control Policy, Executive Office of the President
David K. Mineta is currently serving as the Deputy Director of one of the nation's largest behavioral health organizations specifically targeting the underserved Asian and Pacific Islander communities. Asian American Recovery Services, Inc. (AARS) provides substance abuse prevention and treatment services to thousands of residents across Santa Clara, San Mateo, and San Francisco Counties. Mr. Mineta has worked for AARS since 1996. Mr. Mineta is serving his third term on the Jefferson Union High School District's Board of Trustees. He has been a member of the board since 2000. Mr. Mineta is also a Commissioner on San Mateo's First Five Commission, a county commission overseeing the granting and oversight of early childhood education and health funds. He has also served in various positions with Lutheran Social Services of Northern California, the Santa Clara County Alcohol and Drugs Department, and Asian Americans for Community Involvement. He earned his Master's Degree in Social Work from San Jose State University in 1990 and his Bachelor's Degree in Political Science from the University of California, Berkeley in 1986.
President Obama also announced his intent to appoint the following individuals to serve on the Recovery Independent Advisory Panel:
Steven Koch, Appointee for Member, Recovery Independent Advisory Panel
Steven Koch is a Vice Chairman and Co-Chairman of Credit Suisse's Mergers and Acquisitions Group. He joined Credit Suisse in 1985. Mr. Koch also teaches in the Director's Consortium, a semi-annual seminar he helped to organize, that is sponsored by the Amos Tuck School of Business Administration at Dartmouth, the University of Chicago Booth School of Business, Stanford Graduate School of Business and the Stanford Law School. He serves as Chairman of the Board of Trustees of the Sinai Health System in Chicago and is a member of the Board of Directors of the Greater Chicago Food Depository, The Board of Trustees of the Francis W. Parker School and the Green Ribbon Committee of the Chicago Climate Action Plan. Mr. Koch received his J.D. from the University of Chicago Law School, his M.B.A. from the University of Chicago Booth School of Business and his B.A. from Hampshire College.
Chris Sale, Appointee for Member, Recovery Independent Advisory Panel
Chris Sale is Vice President for Development Finance at CHF International where she provides guidance and informs policy for the CHF International's microenterprise, housing finance, and small to medium enterprise lending programs. Ms. Sale has more than twenty years of experience in finance and development, having served as the Deputy Advisor for External Relations for the Inter-American Development Bank, Deputy to the Chairman and CFO of the FDIC, COO of the US Small Business Administration, among other positions. She is currently a fellow of the National Academy of Public Administration, and the Finance and Investment Chair for the National Partnership for Women and Families. She received an MBA from American University and completed her undergraduate work at Boston University.
Malcolm K. Sparrow, Appointee for Member, Recovery Independent Advisory Panel
Malcolm K. Sparrow is a Professor of the Practice of Public Management at Harvard's Kennedy School of Government, where he has been teaching since 1988. Before joining the Harvard University faculty, Dr. Sparrow served 10 years with the British Police Service, gaining extensive experience in criminal investigation and rising to the rank of Detective Chief Inspector. At Harvard his research and teaching has focused on the distinctive challenges faced by regulatory and law enforcement agencies as they seek to control risks and threats of various kinds. Dr. Sparrow has authored several books and worked closely with U.S. and overseas regulators on issues including crime, terrorism, corruption, fraud, environmental protection, safety management and regulatory compliance. He holds a PhD in applied mathematics from the University of Kent in Canterbury, England, a MPA from the Kennedy School, and a MA in mathematics from Cambridge University.
Edward Tufte, Appointee for Member, Recovery Independent Advisory Panel
Edward Tufte is Professor Emeritus of Political Science, Statistics, and Computer Science at Yale University. He wrote, designed, and self-published The Visual Display of Quantitative Information, Envisioning Information, Visual Explanations, and Beautiful Evidence, which have received 40 awards for content and design. He is a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, the Guggenheim Foundation, the Center for Advanced Study in the Behavioral Sciences, the Society for Technical Communication, and the American Statistical Association. He received his PhD in political Science from Yale University and BS and MS in statistics from Stanford University.
  