
    Last week alone, the Investing in America agenda advanced key efforts to unleash a manufacturing and innovation boom, lower costs for high-speed internet, improve our airports, and create jobs here in America.
President Biden is building an economy that works for working people. As part of his Investing in America agenda, the Biden-Harris Administration has passed historic legislation to rebuild our infrastructure, manufacturing, and supply chains here at home. That means finally investing in our nation's roads, bridges, ports and airports, building a clean energy economy that will lower energy costs and meet our climate goals, and unleashing a manufacturing and innovation boom that will create good-paying jobs that don't require a four-year degree.
Just last week alone, the Investing in America agenda made critical advancements in implementing the CHIPS and Science Act to make the United States a leader in semiconductor manufacturing, brought affordable high-speed internet to communities that have for too long been left out and left behind, and funded projects to rebuild and improve 99 airports across the United States. And, two major companies announced they're moving forward with major investments in the United States that will create thousands of jobs, in part because of the economic climate President Biden's Investing in America agenda has created.
See below for highlights of President Biden's Investing in America agenda from the last week:
Unleashing an innovation boom by making available $39 billion for semiconductor manufacturing:

New York Times: Biden's Semiconductor Plan Flexes the Power of the Federal Government: "Last year, a bipartisan group of lawmakers passed the CHIPS Act, which devoted $52 billion to expanding U.S. semiconductor manufacturing and research, in hopes of making the nation less reliant on foreign suppliers for critical chips that power computers, household appliances, cars and more. […] On Tuesday, the Commerce Department will release its application for manufacturers seeking funds under the law. It will include a variety of requirements that go far beyond simply encouraging semiconductor production. For example, the department will tell companies seeking awards of $150 million or more to guarantee affordable, high-quality child care for workers who build or operate a plant."
Yahoo: Biden has big plans for 'semiconductor clusters' — will companies play along? The Biden administration recently has laid out ambitious plans to use government money to spur at least two new large-scale clusters of semiconductor manufacturing and research in the years ahead. […] The new law has $39 billion earmarked for semiconductor manufacturers; the application process opened this past week. An additional $11 billion is set to go to companies as well as universities and others for chip research and design beginning later this year. The law also includes an investment tax credit of up to 25% towards a manufacturer's capital expenditures.

Improving 99 airports across 47 states and two territories funded by the Investing in America agenda:

WOIO 19 News: Cleveland Hopkins Airports to see $3.2 million in improvements: "Travelers flying in and out of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport will soon see improvements made to the facility. According to an announcement from the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), Cleveland Hopkins will receive $3.2 million in funding from President Biden's Bipartisan Infrastructure Law.
WANE 15 News: Federal law grants Fort Wayne International Airport $8M to improve airfield safety: "Thanks to a 2021 federal law, Fort Wayne International Airport will soon receive a boost toward safety upgrades at the airport. As part of the 2021 Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) announced Monday it will award $8M to FWA to improve airfield safety."

Reconnecting communities cut off from opportunity through 45 new transportation infrastructure projects:

Saint Paul Minnesota: Federal grant invests $2M in ReConnect Rondo restorative development project: "The Rondo neighborhood is one community of hundreds across the country that were uprooted to construct the federal highway system. The Bipartisan Infrastructure Law earmarked $1 billion to aid impacted neighborhoods."
Iowa News Now: Sac & Fox Tribe of Mississippi in Iowa receive $1.2M infrastructure grant: "Tuesday, U.S. Transportation Secretary Pete Buttigieg announced $1.2 million for the Sac & Fox Tribe of Mississippi in Iowa's Meskwaki Reconnecting Communities project through the new Reconnecting Communities Pilot Program, a first-of-its-kind initiative to reconnect communities that are cut off from opportunity and burdened by past transportation infrastructure decisions."

Helping 16 million households save money on high-speed internet and improving internet access for students at minority serving institutions: 

The Post and Courier: VP Kamala Harris promises better internet for minority schools in SC visit: "Vice President Kamala Harris came to South Carolina on Feb. 27 to tout the administration's efforts to provide high-speed affordable internet access to rural communities and schools that serve minority students. Harris announced the federal government will send 61 minority-serving institutions $175 million to improve internet access during her speech at Benedict College, a historically Black institution in Columbia."

Bringing clean water to underserved communities that have been left behind for far too long:

WRNJ: Biden-Harris Administration Announces $94,815,000 for Clean Water Infrastructure Improvements in New Jersey as Part of The Bipartisan infrastructure Package: "The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) announced over $94,815,000 to New Jersey from President Biden's Bipartisan Infrastructure through this year's Clean Water State Revolving Fund (CWSRF). The funding will support New Jersey communities in upgrading essential water, wastewater, and stormwater infrastructure that protects public health and treasured water bodies. Nearly half of this funding will be available as grants or principal forgiveness loans helping underserved communities across America invest in water infrastructure, while creating good-paying jobs."
WVVA Here For You: Biden-Harris administration announces $36.2 million to West Virginia for Water Infrastructure upgrades through the Bipartisan infrastructure law: "According to a release sent by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), West Virginia will be receiving $36.2 million to upgrade essential water, wastewater, and stormwater infrastructure which protects public health and treasured water bodies through President Biden's Bipartisan Infrastructure Law. […] Locally, the Town of Iaeger, in McDowell County, is going to receive $1.5 million from the CWSRF-BIL-funding to eliminate 118 failing septic systems.

Spurring private sector investment in clean energy technology and creating thousands of jobs in South Carolina and Ohio:

TechCrunch: VW-backed Scout Motors to build $2B factory in South Carolina: "Scout Motors will build its factory in Blythewood about 20 miles north of Columbia, which will ultimately employ 4,000 people, on 1,600 acres right in the middle of the developing "battery belt." The plant itself will occupy 1,100 acres of that property. […] Manufacturing in the United States was always a priority, Keogh said, but the 2022 Inflation Reduction Act provided that extra incentive (literally) to commit to the idea of building a factory. 'We think it's important to manufacture in America, certainly without a doubt, the Inflation Reduction Act, combined with what the states are doing, make it a smart time to buy versus rent,' Keogh said."
Dayton 24/7 Now: Honda and LG Energy Solution prepare to break ground on $3.5 billion EV battery plant: "The joint venture between Honda and LG Energy Solutions would bring 2,200 jobs to the state. […] The groundbreaking in Fayette County follows President Joe Biden's visit to Licking County for the groundbreaking of Intel's $20 billion semiconductor facility. Honda said it aims to make battery-electric and fuel-cell electric vehicles 100% of its vehicle sales by 2040."

  