
    
Marco sent the following message his supporters ahead of Super Tuesday:
The media being what it is, most of my back-and-forth with Donald Trump that's gotten attention this week is the light-hearted stuff.
Believe me — I really never expected to be talking about spray tans while running for President.
But there is a much, much more important issue at hand here: Donald Trump is a serious threat to the future of our party, and our country.
I, like you probably, hoped and believed that our fellow Americans would see his cons for what they are, that slogans, celebrity, and tough-talking insults are not enough.
But here's the truth: Americans are scared and angry. And in far too many cases, Donald Trump has been preying on their fears and their insecurities, successfully.
This is no joke. It's time to fight back, because we've seen a scary side of Donald Trump. It isn't just the opposite of what the Republican Party stands for, it's the opposite of what America stands for.Donate $25 to Help Marco Stop Trump
How bad is it?
In just the last few days, Trump has refused to condemn white supremacism and the Ku Klux Klan, praised dictators Saddam Hussein and Moammar Qaddafi, and proposed infringing upon the First Amendment of our Constitution. That's all after he made fun of disabled people, said China was too soft on dissidents, demeaned women, and insulted war heroes.
Trump doesn't take many clear policy positions, but when he does, they're just as scary. 
Trump proudly champions Planned Parenthood. He refuses to stand by Israel against the forces of terror. And Trump thinks the individual mandate — the foundation of the massive government expansion called Obamacare — is actually a good thing.
We cannot allow Donald Trump to hijack the conservative movement and the party of Reagan. We cannot allow this country to turn away from the conservative principles that make us great.
America was built on ideas — equality of opportunity, freedom of speech, the rule of law — that Donald Trump's campaign has been tearing down, mocking or abusing. Truth is, we have to stop him — not just for our party, but for our country.
For more than two centuries, Americans have made sure those ideals have survived, and our country has thrived. This election is about ensuring the next generation can say the same.
  