
    Pool Reports by David Sherfinski, The Washington Times 



Sent:
Reports:




March 26, 202115:14

Travel pool report #1 
Greetings from a sunny, warm, and windy JBA - I'll be your print pooler this weekend. Please feel free to reach out with any questions.
As you've probably heard, there's been a schedule change, with POTUS traveling to Delaware earlier than previously scheduled.
Marine One touched down here at approximately 3:12 pm.
It's around 80 degrees and sunny here, with a similar forecast for Wilmington. It appears there's also some wind in the forecast in DE for the next few hours as well.



March 26, 202115:18

Travel pool report #2 
POTUS exited M1 and saluted at approximately 3:15 pm.
He waved at the pool before entering AF1 but did not stop for questions.
He boarded AF1 at approximately 3:17 pm. Wheels up shortly.
We're taking the smaller AF1 with limited Wifi - I'll send updates upon arrival when I can.



March 26, 202115:20

Travel pool report #3 - guests 
Hunter Biden, the president's son, is among the guests traveling with POTUS today.



March 26, 202116:02

Travel pool report #4 - arrival in DE 
We were wheels up at approximately 3:27 pm and touched down in Wilmington at approximately 3:50 pm.
There were no guests who came to the back of the cabin to greet the press during the short, uneventful flight.
From the White House:
Greeter: Colonel Michael Karwatka, Delaware Air National Guard
Joining POTUS:
Hunter Biden, Melissa Cohen, Baby Beau



March 26, 202116:11

Travel pool report #5 
POTUS, wearing a dark suit and sunglasses, exited AF1 at approximately 4:04 pm.
He stopped and chatted with the pool for several minutes about the origins of the coronavirus, Georgia's new voting law, the filibuster, and a few other topics - will transcribe and send quotes ASAP.



March 26, 202116:24

Pool report #6 - some POTUS quotes 
Please check against video/transcript.
Anything WH can do on GA voting rights? "Well we're working on that right now. We don't know quite exactly what we can do at this point. The Justice Department's taking a look as well."
How does the voting issue affect thinking on filibuster?
"Well look, we'll see - question is whether or not - you have to have 50 votes, 51 votes... right now that doesn't exist. That doesn't exist. So you know, look, the only thing I've been relatively good at in my long career in the Senate is figuring out when to move and when not to move. You got to have the votes."
Can we expect any gun control EO soon? "We're looking at that right now we're looking at what kind of authority I have relative to imported weapons as well as whether or not I have the authority to - these new weapons that are being made by 3D equipment that aren't registered as guns at all. There may be some latitude there as well."



March 26, 202116:38

Travel pool report #7 - More quotes
Again, please check against video/transcript. A tremendous thank-you to co-pooler Tarini Parti for providing transcriptions and quotes here.
Do you have any theories about the origins of the COVID virus ahead of the WHO report?
"No, I don't. I have theories, but I'm not a scientist. I'm going to wait until the scientific community makes that judgment."
You spoke to the British Prime Minister, what was the conversation about?
"Well, we talked a lot about climate change, we talked a lot about the need also for Britain and the United States to, to stand together and deal with the whole notion of whether or not NATO stands together, whether we stand united, and whether or not I'd be able to come, and I hope I can, to NATO meeting - I think it's in late June. So we talked about scheduling and when I come over"
"One of the things I suggested we do is - we talked about China and the competition they're engaging in in the Belt and Road Initiative. And I suggested we should have, essentially, a similar initiative coming from the democratic states, helping those communities around the world"
What does it mean to have Baby Beau on the plane with you?
"It's really great"
What can US do to help Egypt?
"We have equipment and capacity that most countries don't have. And we're seeing what help we can be."



March 26, 202117:02

Travel pool report #8 - motorcade and correction 
POTUS motorcade split away from pool van at approximately 4:30 pm.
Pool incorrectly said in a previous report that we touched down in
Wilmington - it should have read New Castle. Apologies for the error.



March 26, 202117:41

Travel pool report #9 - audio of POTUS gaggle and fuller quotes 
Full transcript of POTUS gaggle upon arrival in Delaware. Link to full audio is below thanks to WSJ's Tarini Parti. Brackets where I couldn't entirely make out the specific quote.
https://otter.ai/u/hlhWs2Z0IHx_bV2DzdBEEA6nUGo
Do you have any theories about the origins of the COVID virus ahead of the WHO report?
"No, I don't. I have [a theory], but I'm not a scientist. I'm going to wait until the scientific community makes that judgment."
You spoke to the British Prime Minister, what was the conversation about?
"Well, we talked a lot about climate change, we talked a lot about the need also for Britain and the United States to, to stand together and deal with the whole notion of whether or not NATO stands together, whether we stand united, and whether or not I'd be able to come, and I hope I can, to the NATO meeting - I think it's in late June. So we talked about scheduling and when I come over and how we'd work that out." 
Any commitments on either side during the call?
"Well, there was full agreement. One of the things I [suggested] we do is - we talked about China and the competition they're engaging in in the Belt and Road Initiative. And I suggested we should have, essentially, a similar initiative coming from the democratic states, helping those communities around the world that, in fact, need help."
What does it mean to have Baby Beau on the plane with you?
"It's really great"
You used strong words about the Georgia voting bill.
"Not as strong as I was really thinking."
Is there anything the White House can do to [protect] voting rights in Georgia?
"Well, we're working on that right now. We don't know quite exactly what we can do at this point. The Justice Department's taking a look as well."
How does the voting issue affect your thinking on the filibuster?
"Well look, we'll see - the question is whether or not - you know, you have to have 50 votes, 51 votes. You have to win to be able to move the filibuster and any change in the filibuster. And right now that doesn't exist. That doesn't exist. So you know, look, the only thing I've been relatively good at in my long career in the Senate is figuring out when to move and when not to move. You got to have the votes."
Can we expect any gun control executive orders soon? 
"Well, we're looking at that right now. We're looking at what kind of authority I have relative to imported weapons as well as whether or not I have the authority to - these new weapons that are being made by 3D equipment that aren't registered as guns at all. There may be some latitude there as well."
On the Suez Canal, what offer has the DoD, has the Pentagon made to help Egypt? Can you say? What all can the U.S. do to assist?
"We have equipment and capacity that most countries don't have. And we're seeing what help we can be."



March 26, 202117:58

Travel pool report #10 - Lid 
A travel/photo lid was called at 5:53 pm. Have a great evening!




  