
    Today, with less than one week until Florida's March 17 primary, nearly 20 elected officials from across Palm Beach County join Greenacres Mayor Joel Flores, Palm Beach Gardens Mayor Mark Marciano and Belle Glade Mayor Steve Wilson in endorsing Joe Biden for President of the United States.
"Joe Biden is a trusted, battle-tested, and unifying messenger best positioned to fight to expand the Democratic coalition here in Palm Beach County, statewide, and nationally," said Greenacres Mayor Joel Flores. "I am proud to endorse Joe Biden alongside so many Palm Beach County leaders, all who know what it takes to win here in Florida."
"At this important crossroad in our country's history, we need a leader who can bring the country together and change the tone of political discourse," said Palm Beach Gardens Vice Mayor Rachelle Litt. "Joe Biden has repeatedly shown that you can have a big heart, be sensitive to the needs and fears of the people, be respectful to your peers and still get the job done. I'm proud to support Joe Biden."
"It matters who we nominate to go up against Donald Trump," said Westlake Vice Mayor Katrina Long-Robinson. "We cannot fight polarization and division with anything but a message of unity, strength, and heart. Joe will focus on what we have in common rather than what separates us and most importantly, deliver for working families in Florida, like he has time and time again. With Joe Biden as president, we will be able to expand access to health care, pass long overdue gun safety legislation, build an economy that works for everyone, and so much more."
"Joe Biden began his career in local politics and he has never lost sight of his roots," said Village of Wellington Councilman John T. McGovern. "His politics are community-driven, and his campaign's message speaks to what we as community leaders try and do every day: bring people together. I am confident that as president, Joe will be able to heal our divisions and reunify the country."
"I trust Joe to deliver for our families not in a distant future, but on day one in the White House," said Boca Raton City Council Member Andy Thomson. "When it comes to health care, livable wages, and keeping our communities safe, we can't rely on just plans; we need someone who can follow through and deliver. That person is Joe Biden, a proven leader who will be a president for all Americans."
Today's endorsements include:

Joseph D. Anderson, Port of Palm Beach Commissioner
Marcia Andrews, Palm Beach County School Board Member
MJ "Chip" Block, Jupiter Inlet Colony Vice Mayor
Dr. Jean Enright, Port of Palm Beach Commissioner
Christy Fox, West Palm Beach City Commission-Elect
Omari Hardy, Lake Worth City Commissioner
Justin Katz, Boynton Beach Vice Mayor
Ilan Kaufer, Jupiter Town Councilman
John McGovern, Village of Wellington Councilman
Kashamba Miller-Anderson, Riviera Beach City Councilwoman
Rachelle Litt, Palm Beach Gardens Vice Mayor
Katrina Long, West Lake Vice Mayor
Cory Neering, West Palm Beach City Commissioner
Jan Radusky, Royal Palm Beach Vice Mayor
Christina Romulus, Boynton Beach City Commissioner
Andy Thomson, Boca Raton City Councilman

Today's new endorsements show the momentum and strength that Biden has as Palm Beach County residents vote early. This slate of local elected officials join more than 60 leaders across Florida that have endorsed Joe Biden for President, including former Senators Bill Nelson and Bob Graham, and the three Members of Congress that represent Palm Beach County: Lois Frankel, Ted Deutch, and Alcee Hastings. Nationally, Biden for President has previously announced more than 2,100 endorsements from national, state, and local leaders, including current and former U.S. senators and representatives, governors, state elected officials, community leaders, and national security professionals.
Biden's endorsements showcase the diversity of support for Vice President Biden in Florida and across the country, as well as the trust that these leaders have in his ability to beat Donald Trump, restore the soul of this nation, rebuild the middle class, and bring the country together.
  