
    Today, President Donald J. Trump announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key positions in his Administration:
Jennifer D. Nordquist of Virginia, to be the Executive Director of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for a term of two years.
Ms. Nordquist currently serves as Chief of Staff at the Council of Economic Advisers in the Executive Office of the President, a position she has held since June 2017. Previously, she was Chief of Staff for the Economic Studies program at the Brookings Institution. She has also served as Assistant Secretary (delegated authority) at the Department of Housing and Urban Development, Senior Advisor in the Office of the Federal Coordinator for Gulf Coast Rebuilding, Deputy Chief of Staff at the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, and Deputy Assistant Secretary at the Department of Education. Ms. Nordquist holds a B.A. from Stanford University and M.S.J. from Northwestern University.
John Linder of Georgia, to be the Representative of the United States of America to the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, with the rank and status of Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary.
Representative Linder was a nine-term United States Representative from Georgia, serving in Congress from 1993 to 2011. He spent eight years on the Rules Committee and was a member of the Ways and Means Committee, serving as the Ranking Member on the Subcommittee on Income and Family Security. He also was a member of the House Committee on Homeland Security, where he chaired the Subcommittee on Prevention of Nuclear and Biological Attack. As a small business owner, he led Linder Financial Corporation from 1977 to 1995. Earlier, Representative Linder served in the United States Air Force as a dental officer before opening a private dental practice in Atlanta. He received a B.S. from the University of Minnesota, Duluth, and D.D.S. from the University of Minnesota School of Dentistry.
John McLeod Barger of California, to be a Member of the Board of Governors of the United States Postal Service, for the remainder of a seven-year term expiring December 8, 2021.
David Bernhardt of Virginia, to be Secretary of the Interior.
Mr. Bernhardt currently serves as Acting Secretary and Deputy Secretary of the Interior. He has served at the Department of the Interior for nearly a decade in various leadership roles. The Senate has previously confirmed Mr. Bernhardt twice to serve at the Interior – in 2017 as Deputy Secretary and in 2006 as Solicitor. Mr. Bernhardt also served as United States Commissioner for the International Boundary Commission between the United States and Canada. Early in his career, Mr. Bernhardt worked in the Office of Congressman Scott McInnis from Colorado. He is an avid sportsman who served as a board member for the Virginia Board of Game and Inland Fisheries.
  