
    
  'Youth for Ron Paul'-sponsored event to occur at University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign

LAKE JACKSON, Texas — This week in Illinois, 2012 Republican Presidential candidate Ron Paul will hold a massive town hall meeting comprised of well over 1,000 voters.
The event, which is free and open to the public, will take place on Wednesday, March 14th at 7:00 p.m. CST at theUniversity of Illinois Foellinger Auditorium, located at 709 South Matthews Avenue, Urbana, IL 61801. Doors open to the public at 6:30 p.m. To reserve your seat for the event featuring Dr. Paul and enter the venue 30 minutes prior to the general public, please click here.
U.S. Rep. Timothy V. Johnson (IL-15th), a friend of Dr. Paul and in whose district the event will take place, will introduce the 12-term Congressman from Texas.
"Illinois supporters are delighted that Ron Paul will visit the state to engage voters, and we guarantee that here in Illinois there is significant support for his candidacy," said Ron Paul 2012 Illinois State Director Scott Davis.
The University of Illinois event is being organized by 'Youth for Ron Paul' (YFP), an initiative of the Ron Paul 2012 Presidential campaign. Since 'Youth for Ron Paul' launched in September, students nationwide have organized 583 chapters and recruited more than 46,000 people.
"The campaign announced this event late Sunday evening, and by midnight, almost 1,200 people had already reserved their seats to see Ron Paul. Like the rest of the country, young voters in Illinois clearly understand the future of our country is at stake this election cycle. The Republican Party would be wise to take note, as no other candidate can inspire young people to mobilize for limited government and fiscal restraint. And no other candidate is better positioned to defeat Obama," said Edward King, National Youth Director for the Ron Paul 2012 Presidential campaign.
"Young people understand the critical challenges our next president will face better than anyone, as they are the generation that will bear the brunt of an uncertain future. That's why they are motivated by Ron Paul's message of prosperity, constitutionally-limited government, and individual liberty and it is why they continue to show up by the thousands to hear Dr. Paul his 'Plan to Restore America,'" said Ani DeGroot, Midwest Regional Director for the Ron Paul 2012 Presidential campaign.
To learn more about 'Youth for Ron Paul' including how to sign-up and establish a local chapter, visit the YFP website by clicking here.
Dr. Paul's Illinois town hall meeting will be followed by an open press avail. Members of the local and major print, broadcast, and online media with particular needs should contact National Media Coordinator Megan Stiles via email at megans@ronpaul2012.com. Please, no exceptions.
Details of the event are as follows. Time is Central.
Wednesday, March 14, 2012
7:00 p.m.
Town Hall Meeting
University of Illinois — Foellinger Auditorium
709 South Matthews Avenue
Urbana, IL 61801
For a map of the location, please click here.
  