
    The Biden-Harris Administration's "Help Is Here" tour continued today focusing on how the American Recue Plan will provide relief to support small businesses essential to American communities and economies. President Biden visited Black-owned union shop in Chester, Pennsylvania, while Vice President Harris and the Second Gentleman met with small business owners in Denver, Colorado. Veterans Affairs Secretary Denis McDonough also visited a local restaurant in Washington, D.C. owned by a Marine veteran.
As part of the tour, Biden-Harris Administration officials will continue traveling across the country, speaking with local press, mobilizing coalition of bipartisan mayors and governors, and directly engage communities, and more to show the American people how the American Rescue Plan helps families, small businesses, schools, and more.?
Read more about the "Help Is Here" tour below: 
President Biden in Chester, Pennsylvania 
Associated Press: In Pennsylvania, Biden showcases aid to small businesses: 
"Joe Biden turned up at a minority-owned flooring business in suburban Philadelphia on Tuesday to highlight how his $1.9 trillion coronavirus relief package can help small businesses and to put a face on those who have struggled throughout the pandemic ... While Biden was in Pennsylvania for his first stop on the "Help is Here" tour, Vice President Kamala Harris and husband Doug Emhoff were reinforcing the small business theme Tuesday with stops in Colorado."
Philadelphia Inquirer: Biden says 'help is on the way' as he kicks off campaign to sell the $1.9 trillion stimulus outside Philly 
"Biden visited Smith Flooring in Chester Township, where he appeared with the company's owners and Democratic elected officials from the region. He touted the $1.9 trillion legislation enacted last week as a way forward for a country reeling from a year of health and economic suffering... He told Smith Flooring owners Kristin and James Smith that small businesses would see more relief than was available through the first relief package last spring."
WHYY: Biden highlights Black-owned businesses during first official trip to Philly area as president 
"After passage of a $1.9 trillion stimulus package, the first major legislative victory for President Joe Biden, he headed to one of the places that helped get him into office: southeastern Pennsylvania...Specifically, he came to Chester to visit Smith Flooring, a Black-owned business with a unionized workforce that received Paycheck Protection Program loans earlier in the pandemic and will qualify for additional benefits under the newly passed federal stimulus, including a tax credit designed for employee retention."
Delaware County Times: Biden rolls out 'Help Is Here' campaign at stop in Chester 
"President Joe Biden made two stops in Delaware County Tuesday as part of his 'Help Is Here' tour to highlighted how the American Rescue Plan addresses the need for vaccine and economic relief for small businesses and individuals ... The visits were the first the president has made outside Washington since his inauguration and were on the heels of the recent passage of the $1.9 million American Rescue Plan."
Reuters: Biden kicks off 'Help is Here' tour 
U.S. President Joe Biden kicked off his so-called "Help is Here" tour, to personally deliver that message to American workers after he signed the American Rescue Plan into law last week, starting off in the blue-collar state of Pennsylvania on Tuesday.
PBS: With a stop in Pennsylvania, Biden begins his pitch to Americans on new COVID relief law 
President Biden is on the road, aiming to sell his COVID relief law to the American public. His first stop Tuesday was in Pennsylvania with a visit to a Black-owned flooring business near Philadelphia, highlighting the aid that his administration is providing through small business loans and stimulus checks. Yamiche Alcindor joins Judy Woodruff to discuss.
Vice President Harris and the Second Gentleman in Denver, Colorado 
Denver Post: "We want to make sure you stay open": Vice President Kamala Harris, husband promote federal stimulus plan in Colorado 
"Vice President Kamala Harris and her husband, Doug Emhoff, sat down at a table at Denver's Maria Empanada restaurant on Tuesday afternoon. It wasn't for a bite to eat, but instead part of a national public relations push by the White House to talk about the $1.9 trillion stimulus package signed last week. 'We want to make sure you can stay open,' Harris told three small business owners who were part of the roundtable discussion with the vice president, Emhoff, Gov. Jared Polis and a nonprofit executive."
CPR: Kamala Harris Swung By Maria Empanada In Denver On The Latest Stop Of A COVID Relief Victory Lap 
"Vice President Kamala Harris stopped in Colorado Tuesday as part of the Biden Administration's 'Help is Here' tour touting the benefits of the $1.9 trillion coronavirus relief bill. During a listening session at the restaurant Maria Empanada in Denver, Harris stressed the importance of supporting small businesses, calling them the 'heartbeat of every community.' 'It is our small businesses that hire from the community, that uplift the community,' she said."
CBS Denver: In Denver, Vice President Kamala Harris Spreads Word About COVID Relief Plan To Colorado Small Business Owners 
"Vice President Kamala Harris came to Denver on Tuesday as part of the Biden Administration's efforts to highlight what's in the $1.9 trillion COVID relief plan. Before that she held a virtual chat with the operators of a Fort Lupton vaccine clinic...In Denver, Harris held an early afternoon meeting with small businesses along with her husband Doug Emhoff. It took place at Maria Empanada. The business operates a small chain of empanada shops in the Mile High City."
ABC Colorado Springs: Vice President Kamala Harris visits Colorado to promote COVID-19 relief plan 
"Vice President Kamala Harris traveled to Denver on Tuesday to meet with Colorado's small business owners and visit a vaccine clinic as part of a nationwide tour promoting the COVID-19 relief package."
Veterans Affairs Secretary Denis McDonough in Washington, D.C. 
Washington Post: VA secretary promotes relief package with visit to D.C. restaurant owned by a Marine veteran
"Veterans Affairs Secretary Denis McDonough visited a Filipino restaurant in the District's diverse Mt. Pleasant neighborhood on Tuesday to showcase the significant funding for veterans in the Biden administration's $1.9 trillion coronavirus relief package. Purple Patch, whose owner and chef Patrice Cleary served in the Marine Corps for eight years, is a community fixture on Mt. Pleasant Street that has survived the pandemic — albeit with a 45 percent loss in revenue, she told McDonough ... The American Rescue Plan gives priority to veteran-owned businesses like Purple Patch, which can apply for a slice of $28.6 billion in restaurant revitalization grants that will be administered by the Small Business Administration."
Heather Boushey on MSNBC 
MSNBC: 'The American Rescue Plan includes more money for small businesses' : Heather Boushey
MSNBC's Craig Melvin is joined by Heather Boushey, a White House economic adviser, to discuss the American Rescue Plan and how it will benefit those in need.
  