
    Memorandum for the Heads of ExecutiveDepartments and AgenciesSubject: Management of the Federal Government
We came to Washington in 1981 pledged to reduce the size, cost, and inefficiency of the government. Much has been achieved in only four years, but this huge task is not completed. In 1984, we promised renewed commitment to the full and lasting achievement of our management goals. Now, it is time to redouble our efforts.
We have made great progress in reducing waste and fraud through the efforts of our President's Council on Integrity and Efficiency. Forty-six billion dollars have been put to better use in the past four years.
And we have also made a good start on the massive task of improving the management of the Federal government by reducing the size of the Federal work force in civilian agencies, controlling administrative overhead costs, developing effective cash and credit management systems, improving the delivery of services, reducing program error rates, enhancing Federal productivity, and making more effective use of modern computer and communications technology. It is an evolving success story and one in which we can all take pride.
Last month, as a companion document to the FY 1986 Budget, the first annual management report was transmitted to the Congress. This new report, The Management of the U.S. Government, is a description of comprehensive interagency efforts including Reform '88, the President's Private Sector Survey on Cost Control in the Federal Government, and other initiatives being implemented as part of this Administration's Management Improvement Program.
However, we cannot rest in our efforts to reform, revitalize, and restructure the U.S. Government. The implementation of a massive management improvement program like this requires your personal support. Therefore, I am asking you, as the head of your agency, to commit to an increased effort to implement the initiatives in our new management report to improve the management efficiency and effectiveness of your agency.
Only through your continued commitment, the enthusiastic support of your staff, and a redoubling of our efforts can we leave the American public with a permanent legacy of a more efficient and effective Federal government.
RONALD REAGAN
  