
    Congresswoman Bass Becomes the 37th Congressional Black Caucus Member to Back Biden
Today, Congressional Black Caucus Chair and California Congresswoman Karen Bass released the following statement endorsing Joe Biden for President of the United States:
"Right now, the United States of America requires a dramatic and immediate intervention. The American people are crying out for a tested, steady hand that can bring an end to the past three and a half years of daily trauma inflicted on us, and on our neighbors, by this administration. The person for that job is Joe Biden. Throughout working with Vice President Biden, I've come to know him as an empathetic, understanding, and capable leader who works tirelessly on behalf of all Americans, especially those purposely forgotten and antagonized by the current administration.
"He's a man of the people — a decent man who not only understands the issues our communities face every day, but is supportive and productive in crafting and implementing solutions needed to close the wage gap, to shrink the disparities in housing, and to equalize access in healthcare coverage.
"He's a leader on the international stage that we can trust to de-escalate tensions with adversaries and to mend relationships with allies. On Day One, he can pick up the phone and get to work because he knows these leaders, and most importantly, they know him. Both domestically and internationally, Joe Biden knows the stakes that we are facing and he knows how to get the job done. He's going to make sure that we end this dark chapter in our history and I look forward to helping him do just that in November."
Bass has represented California's 37th district since 2008, and fought throughout for criminal justice reform, a more humane foster care system, and stronger U.S.-Africa ties. She previously served six years in the California State Assembly, becoming the first African American woman in U.S. history to serve as a state house speaker. During that time, she won a 2010 Profiles in Courage award for her bipartisan work to ease one of California's worst-ever financial crises.
Bass joins 36 other members of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC) who have endorsed Biden, affirming the Vice President's role as a skilled leader and trusted partner and building on his historic, strong showing in more than a dozen primary states to date. Biden has support from other former chairs from the CBC too, including Democratic Whip Jim Clyburn, Congressman Cedric Richmond, Congressman G. K. Butterfield, Congresswoman Marcia Fudge, and Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, and Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson.
Biden for President has previously announced more than 2,100 endorsements from national, state, and local leaders, including current and former U.S. senators and representatives, governors, state elected officials, community leaders, and national security professionals.
  