
    "Whatever the Supreme Court decides about the constitutionality of Obamacare, we already know that it is bad policy and wrong for America. Abolishing it and putting sensible changes in its place will be one of my highest priorities as president." —Mitt Romney
Read Governor Romney's Op-Ed On Repealing Obamacare
President Obama Promised To Bring Down Health Care Costs, But He Has Made It "Less Affordable":
President Obama Promised Obamacare Would "Bring Down [Health Care] Costs" For Americans. "The Affordable Care Act will bring down costs, improve the quality of health care delivered to all Americans and expand coverage to 32 million Americans." (White House Website, www.whitehouse.gov, Accessed 3/15/12)
"No Matter What They Said About Rising Health Care Costs, Those Costs Aren't Actually Going To Go Down Under Health Care Reform." (David Nather, "Health Care Reform: 4 Inconvenient Truths," Politico, 3/16/12)
Factcheck.org On Obamacare: "Falls Short Of Making Health Care 'Affordable And Available To Every Single American,' As Promised." "Furthermore, the law falls short of making health care 'affordable and available to every single American,' as promised. The law provides subsidies to help some Americans buy insurance, expands Medicaid and doesn't allow insurance companies to exclude persons with preexisting conditions." (D'Angelo Gore, "Promises, Promises," Factcheck.org, 1/4/12)


"[T]he Director Of The Nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office Projected 23 Million Persons Will Remain Uninsured - Some Because They Can't Afford Coverage." (D'Angelo Gore, "Promises, Promises," Factcheck.org, 1/4/12)


Obamacare Has Made Health Care "Less Affordable" And Has Caused "Insurance Premiums To Rise." "At the moment, the new law is making health care slightly less affordable. Independent health care experts say the law has caused some insurance premiums to rise. As we wrote in October, the new law has caused about a 1 percent to 3 percent increase in health insurance premiums for employer-sponsored family plans because of requirements for increased benefits. Last year's premium increases cast even more doubt on another promise the president has made - that the health care law would 'lower premiums by up to $2,500 for a typical family per year.'" (D'Angelo Gore, "Promises, Promises," Factcheck.org, 1/4/12)
President Obama Promised Individuals They Could Keep Their Existing Insurance Plans, But Obamacare Could Cause As Many As 20 Million Americans To Lose Employer Coverage:
President Obama Promised Obamacare Would Allow Individuals To Keep Their Existing Insurance Plans: "If You Like Your Plan, Keep Your Plan." OBAMA: "If you like your doctor, you're going to be able to keep your doctor.  If you like your plan, keep your plan.  ... I think it's time to give you, the American people, more control over your health." (President Barack Obama, Remarks On Health Insurance Reform, Fairfax, VA, 3/19/10)


    President Obama: "If Your Employer Is Providing You Good Health Insurance, Terrific, We're Not Going To Mess With It." (President Barack Obama, Press Conference, 6/23/09)
  

"For A Lot Of People, [President Obama's Promise] Isn't True." "President Barack Obama promised over and over during the health care debate that 'if you like your health care plan, you can keep your health care plan.' It turns out that, for a lot of people, that isn't true." (David Nather, "Health Care Reform: 4 Inconvenient Truths," Politico, 3/16/12)
According To The Nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office, Obamacare Could Cause As Many As 20 Million Americans To Lose Their Employer-Provided Coverage. "A Congressional Budget Office report issued this week says that 3 million to 5 million people could move from employer-based health care plans to government-based programs as the Affordable Care Act takes effect. And in the worst-case scenario, it could be as many as 20 million." (David Nather, "Health Care Reform: 4 Inconvenient Truths," Politico, 3/16/12)


    Even The CBO's "Best Estimate" Shows That "3 Million To 5 Million Fewer People Will Obtain Coverage Through Their Employer." "The best estimate, subject to a 'tremendous amount of uncertainty,'  is that about 3 million to 5 million fewer people will obtain coverage through their employer each year from 2019 through 2022." (Julian Pecquet, "CBO Report Says Healthcare Law Could Cause As Many As 20M To Lose Coverage," The Hill, 3/15/12)
  

President Obama Promised To Not Give Government "More Control Over Health Care," But Obamacare Created A New Bureaucracy "With Vast Powers" Over Health Care:
President Obama Promised To Not Give Government "More Control Over Health Care In America." OBAMA: "I don't believe we should give government or the insurance companies more control over health care in America." (President Barack Obama, Remarks On Health Insurance Reform, Fairfax, VA, 3/19/10)
Obamacare Created A "Controversial Medicare Cost-Cutting Panel" To Cut Medicare "If Spending Grows Too Fast."  "The White House defended a controversial Medicare cost-cutting panel Wednesday, just as a House committee was set to pass a bill that would repeal the board. The Independent Payment Advisory Board, established by the healthcare reform law, would comprise 15 experts with the power to cut Medicare payments to doctors if spending grows too fast." (Sam Baker, "White House Defends IPAB Ahead Of Repeal Vote," The Hill, 2/29/12)


    The Independent Payment Advisory Board (IPAB) Is "The New ObamaCare Bureaucracy With Vast Powers To Control Health Care And Health Markets." "The vehicle is a bill from Tennessee Republican Phil Roe that would repeal the Independent Payment Advisory Board, or IPAB, the new ObamaCare bureaucracy with vast powers to control health care and health markets starting next year." (Editorial, "Independent Payment Advisory Revolt," The Wall Street Journal, 3/9/12)
  

Obamacare's IPAB Empowers A Bureaucracy To Impose  Judgments Through "Medicare's Price Controls On All U.S. Medicine." "Instead, supposedly independent experts will run a battery of small experiments, figure out which ones 'work' and then impose them through Medicare's price controls on all U.S. medicine. When health spending in a given year exceeds a budget benchmark, as it always does and will, the 15 White House-appointed wise men will work their miracles." (Editorial, "Independent Payment Advisory Revolt," The Wall Street Journal, 3/9/12)
Experts Have Warned That IPAB Cuts "Could Lead To Rationed Care" And Could Have An Effect On The Ability To Treat Patients. "Expert witnesses warned lawmakers Tuesday that a provision in President Obama's health care law could lead to rationed care or even prevent physicians from treating Medicare patients. ... Dr. Scott Gottlieb, M.D., a resident fellow at the nonpartisan American Enterprise Institute, told Rep. Peter Roskam (R., Ill.) that the ability of health care providers to treat patients would 'absolutely' be effected by the cuts likely to be imposed by IPAB." (Andrew Stiles, "Obamacare Could Lead To Rationed Care, Experts Warn," The Washington Free Beacon, 3/6/12)
  