
    In the wake of a historic win in South Carolina, thirty key Virginia state and local elected officials and party activists, including three former supporters of Mayor Pete Buttigieg, one former supporter of Senator Kamala Harris, and two former supporters of Mayor Michael Bloomberg, formally endorsed Vice President Joe Biden's candidacy for president.
Emphasizing Joe Biden's ability to draw the support of a diverse coalition that best reflects the face of the Democratic party and the nation, Virginia leaders discussed the need for Biden's ability to unite the country and restore the soul of the nation.
"Watching this race unfold, it is clear to me that Joe Biden is the candidate to bring us together and lead our party to victory up and down the ballot," said Virginia House Majority Leader and former Chair of the Democratic Party of Virginia Delegate Charniele Herring. "Biden's leadership combined with his willingness to listen and grow gives me great hope for the future."
"As Democrats, we always stand for the people — all of the people — and the justice they deserve," said Virginia House Democratic Caucus Chair Delegate Rip Sullivan. "Joe Biden has earned the trust and respect of the people because he never loses sight of who he's fighting for — and with dogged determination, he's built coalitions to deliver. Now more than ever, the dignity of our country is in tatters, and we need more than tough talk — we need results. We need Joe Biden."
"America desperately needs leadership that is squarely focused on results for working people. Joe Biden has always delivered for us — disregarding distractions, divisions, or purity tests," said Virginia Delegate Alex Askew. "The more our party frays, the more we lose sight of who and what we're fighting for. Joe Biden understands that we're strongest when we're united, because those who have been pushed to the peripheries of this nation can no longer be ignored. It's time to stand up and remind America and the world of who we are by delivering action — it's time to elect Joe Biden."
"Just as President Obama did, I trust Vice President Biden to be President for all of the people," said Virginia Delegate Don Scott. "Of the candidates remaining, I believe he is uniquely qualified to promote economic equity and prosperity, implement true criminal justice, protect working class families, and ensure that our country's health and education systems continue to improve."
"I don't need promises. I need proven leadership," said Loudoun County Board of Supervisors Chair Phyllis Randall. "I need someone who has a history of fighting for and passing meaningful legislation that has improved my life, the lives of my family and the people in my community. I need steady, focused, committed leadership. I believe in Joe Biden, he has earned my endorsement."
The full list of endorsements today include:

Virginia State Senator, Adam Ebbin, Alexandria
Virginia State Senator, Jeremy McPike, Prince William County
Virginia State Senator, John Edwards, Roanoke
Virginia State Senator, Barbara Favola, Arlington County
Delegate Charniele Herring, Alexandria, Majority Leader
Delegate Richard "Rip" Sullivan, Arlington County, House Democratic Caucus Chair
Delegate Don Scott, Portsmouth
Delegate Alex Askew, Virginia Beach
Delegate Mark Levine, Alexandria
Delegate Martha Mugler, Hampton
Delegate Luke Torian, Prince William County
Delegate Dan Helmer, Fairfax County
Phyllis Randall, Chair of Loudoun County Board of Supervisors
Mike Turner, Member of Loudoun County Board of Supervisors
John Foust, Member of the Fairfax County Board of Supervisors
Jim Holland, Member of Chesterfield County Board of Supervisors
Tannia Talento, Member of Arlington County School Board
Stephanie Lynch, Member of Richmond City Council
Pamela Yeung, Member of Stafford County School Board
Taikein Cooper, Prince Edward County Democratic Party Chair
Praveen Meyyan, Secretary of the Virginia Asian Advisory Board
Marc Broklawski, Virginia DNC Member
Steven Cochran, Virginia DNC Member
Molly Ward, Former Virginia Secretary of Natural Resources and former Mayor of Hampton
Tiffany Boyle, Newport News Commissioner of the Revenue
Sheila Olem, Vice Mayor of the Town of Herndon
Former Delegate Bobby Mathieson, Virginia Beach
Former Delegate Cheryl Turpin, Virginia Beach
Anita James Price, Member of Roanoke City Council
Djuna Osbourne, Member of Roanoke City Council
Brenda Hamilton, Clerk of Court for the City of Roanoke

Today's slate of support adds to the surge of high-profile endorsements Biden has earned from Virginia leaders in recent days, including former Governor Terry McAuliffe, Senator Tim Kaine, Congresswoman Jennifer Wexton, Congressman Bobby Scott, and Congressman Don Beyer. These leaders join more than 50 leaders from across the Commonwealth backing Biden, including Congressman Donald McEachin, Congresswoman Elaine Luria, Richmond Mayor Levar Stoney, Roanoke Mayor Sherman Lea, Virginia State Senate Majority Leader Dick Saslaw, Virginia Legislative Black Caucus Chair Delegate Lamont Bagby and other state legislators and local leaders.
Last November, Biden endorsed 23 local candidates in some of the most competitive districts ahead of Virginia's General Assembly elections, helping turn both legislative chambers blue. In 2018, he also worked to elect candidates up and down the ballot in Virginia, including now-Reps. Abigail Spanberger, Jennifer Wexton, and Elaine Luria, whose wins in critical Red to Blue districts helped Democrats take back the U.S. House.
Biden for President has previously announced more than 1,400 endorsements from national, state, and local leaders, including current and former U.S. senators and representatives, governors, state elected officials, community leaders, and national security professionals.
  