
    Today, former United States Deputy Attorney General Sally Yates released the following statement endorsing Joe Biden for President of the United States:
"I am supporting Joe Biden for President because I trust him. I trust him to always put the country's interests before his own; to tell us the truth; to appeal to our best, not our worst, instincts; to unite rather than divide us; and to always treat the presidency as a privilege rather than an entitlement.
"I am not a political person. But there is too much at stake now for any of us to sit on the sidelines. This is indeed a battle for the soul of America — who we are, or at least who we have always aspired to be. While our country can survive four years of our current president, at the end of eight years, I fear that we will not recognize the nation that we have become. But the future of our country is up to us. We have a choice.
"And my choice is Joe Biden. He is a thoroughly decent person who will restore integrity and honor to the presidency. He will work to heal a country that has been selfishly ripped apart for personal and political gain. And he will respect all the people whom he represents, not just those who voted for him.
"But make no mistake — Joe Biden is far more than just a "good man." While serving in the Obama administration, I had the opportunity to observe Vice President Biden grapple with some of the country's greatest challenges, at home and abroad. He will utilize his vast experience to restore America's credibility and position of moral authority in the world. Our allies will trust us again, and our adversaries will not doubt our strength. He will put an end to the chaos and recklessness that is inflicted on us every day, and bring steady, thoughtful leadership to our nation.
"Our country needs Joe Biden. And I am proud to support him."
Former Attorney General Yates' endorsement also adds to the growing momentum Joe Biden has established in Georgia. She joins more than 80 Peach States endorsers including Atlanta Mayor Keisha Lance Bottoms, Congressman Sanford Bishop, Congressman Hank Johnson, Congresswoman Lucy McBath, and other state legislators and community leaders.
Biden for President has previously announced more than 2,100 endorsements from national, state, and local leaders, including current and former U.S. senators and representatives, governors, state elected officials, community leaders, and national security professionals.
  