
    Verona, PA - Former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney often speaks about how much the people of Massachusetts like RomneyCare. However, exit polls after the Massachusetts primary revealed 51% of Massachusetts Republicans think Romneycare 'went too far.' This was a far different reality than the one Mitt Romney had been telling us. In fact, Mitt Romney has said that Romneycare "is working well." Last week the Rick Santorum campaign sent a camera to Massachusetts to ask residents what they thought about Romneycare. The following is what we found:http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=v2_3-hQQLUY.
Hogan Gidley, National Communications Director said, "These testimonials prove two things: Romneycare is not popular and Mitt Romney hasn't been completely truthful with the American people. We must nominate a candidate who can take on this critical issue and be trusted to repeal ObamaCare - and we simply cannot trust the politician who just two years ago advised President Obama to follow his lead on the individual mandate. The facts prove the people who know RomneyCare best, like it least. Mitt Romney is uniquely disqualified from making this argument in the general election, and that will take the biggest issue facing our nation off the table before the debate even begins."
Exit polling from the very birthplace of RomneyCare shows that these Massachusetts residents are not alone in thinking RomneyCare goes too far.
Exit Poll Statistic of the Year
By: Paul Gigot, The Wall Street Journal
http://online.wsj.com/article_email/SB10001424052970204781804577267512902147648-lMyQjAxMTAyMDAwNzEwNDcyWj.html?mod=wsj_share_email
The Super Tuesday exit polls yielded a mountain of data in 10 states, but the most telling single statistic may have been in Massachusetts, which Mitt Romney won in a largely uncontested rout. Yet believe it or not, he still lost on health care.

The exit poll asked voters their opinion of the "Massachusetts Health Care Law," with the options of Did Not Go Far Enough, About Right and Went Too Far. Remarkably, 51% said the bill went too far, while only 37% said it was about right, and 6% said not far enough.
  