
    "For four years, President Obama has peddled the same broken promises — and the same broken energy policies. But with gas prices setting new records, Americans won't stand for more of the same from the Obama White House. This country needs a leader like Mitt Romney, who has proposed bold, pro-growth energy solutions that will create jobs and help secure America's energy future." —Andrea Saul, Romney Spokesperson
This Weekend, President Obama Highlighted The Same Failed Energy Policies He Has Championed For The Last Four Years:
President Obama, This Weekend: "The Recent Spike In Gas Prices Has Been Another Painful Reminder Of Why We Have To Invest In This [Clean] Technology." "'Whether you're paying for a plane ticket, or filling up your gas tank, technology that helps us get more miles to the gallon is one of the easiest ways to save money and reduce our dependence on foreign oil,' Obama said in his weekly address to the nation broadcast Saturday. 'The recent spike in gas prices has been another painful reminder of why we have to invest in this technology.'" (Donovan Slack, "Obama Fends Off Energy Criticism In Weekly Address," Politico, 3/10/12)
FLASHBACK: Candidate Obama, In 2008: "I Want To Invest That Money In Clean, Affordable, Renewable Energy Sources ... So That We're Not Talking About High Fuel Prices Next Summer..." OBAMA: "I want to invest that money in clean, affordable, renewable energy sources like wind power, and solar power, and biofuels, so that we're not talking about high fuel prices next summer or the next summer after that, or the summer after that." (Sen. Barack Obama, Remarks, Winston-Salem, NC, 4/29/08)
The Results Of President Obama's Efforts On Energy? Record Prices At The Pump And Billions Of Wasted Taxpayer Dollars:
The Nation's Average Gas Price Is Roughly $3.76 Per Gallon — An 8% Increase From Last Month. "The average price of a gallon of regular was $3.76 a gallon on Friday — up 8 percent in the last month — a tabulation that masks significant regional disparities, said Avery Ash, manager of federal relations for the AAA." (Jeff Sommer, "Gas Price Disparity Seems Here To Stay," The New York Times, 3/10/12)
Gas Prices Have Hit "A Record For This Time Of Year." "U.S. gas prices have jumped 8.8 percent since the start of this year, according to the Energy Information Agency, topping an average of $3.65 a gallon in the week ended February 22. This was a record for this time of the year, when prices are usually on the low side because of slow seasonal demand." (Nivedita Bhattacharjee, "Analysis: Gas Prices Siphon Sales From Restaurants," Reuters, 2/29/12)
Of The First Twelve Obama Administration Loans To Clean Energy Companies, "Two Firms Filed For Bankruptcy, A Third Has Faced Layoffs And A Fourth Deal Never Closed." "The bonuses and bankruptcies come against a growing wave of trouble for companies financed with Energy Department dollars. Of the first 12 loan guarantees the department announced, for instance, two firms filed for bankruptcy, a third has faced layoffs and a fourth deal never closed."  (Ronnie Greene and Matthew Mosk, "Green Firms Get Fed Cash, Give Execs Bonuses, Fail," ABC News, 3/6/12)
Maybe That's Why Independent Observers — And, In A Moment Of Candor, Even The President Himself — Have Criticized The Administration's Failed Energy Policies:
President Obama: "Our Energy Policy Still Is Just A Hodgepodge." OBAMA: "Our energy policy still is just a hodgepodge, and for all the progress we've made, we're not where we need to be in making sure that this is an energy-efficient economy that is running on all cylinders." (President Barack Obama, Remarks At DNC Event, Miami, FL, 6/13/11)
Former Obama Adviser Steven Rattner: The U.S. Has "Absolutely No Energy Policy." RATTNER: "It's a viable issue. But let's look at the facts. The U.S., in fact, notwithstanding the fact we have absolutely no energy policy and we all including myself believe we should have one, has not really been that much a part of the problem lately." (MSNBC's "Morning Joe," 3/9/12)
NBC's Chuck Todd, On President Obama And Energy: "He's Made No Progress." TODD: "There is no issue that has been a, I guess, a bigger bust for the president than energy policy in general. There's a lot of, we can come up with a lot of excuses as to why, but boy, it's just like you can't — he's made no progress." (MSNBC's "The Daily Rundown," 2/23/12)
The Washington Post's Nia-Malika Henderson: "He's Made No Progress." HENDERSON: "No, he's made no progress. I remember covering him on the campaign and he would talk about, you know, turning these manufacturing plants into wind turbine plants and it seemed to work then, but, you know, in terms of the reality and on the ground actually success during his presidency, absolutely none." (MSNBC's "The Daily Rundown," 2/23/12)
  