
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate four individuals to serve in his Administration:
The President intends to nominate Charles F. Conner, of Indiana, to be Deputy Secretary of Agriculture. Mr. Conner currently serves as Special Assistant to the President for Agriculture, Trade, and Food Assistance at the National Economic Council. Prior to this position, he served as President of the Corn Refiners Association in Washington, DC. Mr. Conner previously served on the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry for twelve years. He earned his bachelor's degree from Purdue University.
The President intends to nominate Robert Joseph, of Virginia, to be Under Secretary of State for Arms Control and International Security. Dr. Joseph currently serves as Senior Scholar and Director of Studies at the National Institute for Public Policy. Prior to this position, he served on the National Security Council staff as Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for Proliferation Strategy, Counterproliferation and Homeland Defense. Dr. Joseph was the Director and Founder of the Center for Counterproliferation research at the National Defense University and served as Professor of National Security Studies. He earned his bachelor's degree from Saint Louis University, his master's degree from the University of Chicago, and his Ph.D. from Columbia University.
The President intends to nominate Paul D. Clement, of Virginia, to be Solicitor General at the Department of Justice. Mr. Clement currently serves at the Justice Department as Acting Solicitor General. In addition, he also serves as Adjunct Professor at Georgetown University Law Center. Mr. Clement previously served as Partner and Head of Appellate Practice for King & Spalding in Washington, DC. Earlier in his career, he served as Chief Counsel for the United States Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on the Constitution, Federalism and Property Rights. Mr. Clement earned his bachelor's degree from Georgetown University School of Foreign Service, his master's degree from Cambridge University and his J.D. from Harvard Law School.
The President intends to nominate Kim Wang, of California, to be a Member of the National Museum and Library Services Board (Library), for the remainder of a five-year term expiring December 6, 2009.
  