
    With just one week until Florida's March 17 primary, 15 current and former mayors across the Sunshine State announced their endorsements of Joe Biden for President of the United States, including mayors from Orlando, Tampa, St. Petersburg and Miami Beach.
"As a Senator, Joe Biden dedicated his life to improving ours and, as Vice President of the United States, he fought for policies that made our lives better and our country stronger," said Kissimmee Mayor Jose Alvarez. "Vice President Joe Biden and President Obama worked together to end the Great Recession, expand healthcare to millions of Americans, made climate change a national imperative, stood up for Dreamers, and stood up to those who wish to do us harm. But this election, possibly the most consequential in our nation's history, is about more than policies. It's about reclaiming our moral leadership on the world stage, and dignified leadership here at home. It's about unifying our nation and standing with nations that share our core values. It's about equal opportunity, equal rights, and equal justice for all. Through his life's work, Joe Biden has demonstrated time and time again that he is that leader, which is why I support Joe Biden for President."
"In Orange County and across America, we know Joe Biden," said Orange County Mayor Jerry Demings. "Whether its climate change, health care, gun safety or fighting for the rights of others, the Vice President has proven over the course of his career that he can deliver results. And when we send him back to the White House, it won't be any different. Joe Biden is the right leader for the moment at hand, and I am proud to endorse him."
"In October of 2008 I received a surprise phone call from Joe as the Democratic Leader in the state legislature after working with then Republican Governor Charlie Crist to extend voting hours to alleviate enormous lines of mostly African-American voters looking to vote in a historic election for Barack Obama," said Miami Beach Mayor Dan Gelber. "Joe was amazed we were able to work across the aisle and get that done but I explained to him that Governor Crist was a decent man who didn't like the idea of fellow Floridians not being able to exercise their voting rights. He responded simply, 'I've found there is decency in most people- and if given the opportunity they will usually choose the right path.' I'm endorsing Joe Biden because he always looks for and appeals to the best in our nation. As president, he won't animate or exploit the divisiveness that has torn us apart but will instead bring us together."
"Joe Biden will bring unparalleled experience and decency to the presidency at a time when it is sorely needed," said St. Petersburg Mayor Rick Kriseman. "Just as President Barack Obama did before him, Joe will provide Americans with a sense of calm while restoring our reputation on the world stage. He had my back in 2017 and I am proud to have his in 2020. I encourage the voters of St. Petersburg and the State of Florida to join me in voting for Joe Biden for President."
"Florida Democrats have a choice to make on March 17th," said Chattahoochee Mayor Ann Williams. "For me the choice is easy - Joe Biden is rebuilding the Obama coalition here in the Sunshine State and across the nation on his way to defeating Donald Trump, and restoring the soul of the nation. I'm proud to once again be a part of that coalition and stand with Joe."
Today's new endorsements include:

Mayor Jose Alvarez, Kissimmee
Former Mayor Bob Buckhorn, Tampa
Mayor Jerry Demings, Orange County
Mayor Buddy Dyer, Orlando
Mayor Joel Flores, Greenacres
Mayor Dan Gelber, Miami Beach
Mayor Christine Hunschofsky, Parkland
Mayor Rick Kriseman, St. Petersburg
Mayor Mark Marciano, Palm Beach Gardens
Mayor Hazelle Rogers, Lauderdale Lakes
Mayor Mike Ryan, Sunrise
Mayor Matt Sparks, Oakland
Vice Mayor Kanika Tomalin, St. Petersburg
Mayor Ann Williams, Chattahoochee
Mayor Steve Wilson, Belle Glade

Today's slate of mayors join more than 50 leaders across Florida that have endorsed Joe Biden for President, including former Senators Bill Nelson and Bob Graham, and current Members of Congress Debbie Mucarsel-Powell, Kathy Castor, Charlie Crist, Val Demings, Ted Deutch, Lois Frankel, Alcee Hastings, Al Lawson, Debbie Wasserman Schultz, Darren Soto, and Frederica Wilson. Biden also has the most support from more Members of Congress of any candidate in the race, with more than 80 members backing him. Nationally, Biden for President has previously announced more than 2,100 endorsements from national, state, and local leaders, including current and former U.S. senators and representatives, governors, state elected officials, community leaders, and national security professionals.
Biden's endorsements showcase the diversity of support for Vice President Biden in Florida and across the country, as well as the trust that these leaders have in his ability to beat Donald Trump, restore the soul of this nation, rebuild the middle class, and bring the country together.
  