
    After Joe Biden's astounding Super Tuesday wins across the country, Biden for President is announcing Delaware Congresswoman Lisa Blunt Rochester will serve as a campaign co-chair. Congresswoman Blunt Rochester will join Louisiana Congressman Cedric Richmond and Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti as co-chairs, serving as top advisors and surrogates as the campaign expands its efforts to clinch the Democratic nomination and defeat Donald Trump.
"Yesterday, Joe Biden showed the country what I have known for a long time: there is no other leader with more experience, heart, or determination for this moment," said Congresswoman Lisa Blunt Rochester. "I am honored to join Joe's campaign as a national co-chair and build upon the incredible energy and enthusiasm we are witnessing across the country for Joe. Together, we will grow this campaign into an even stronger movement that turns out voters to the ballot box in November and ensure we make Donald Trump a one-term president."
"Lisa Blunt Rochester is a friend, fighter, and role model for all Delawareans. I have known her for many years and she is an exemplary leader who has fought for health care, criminal justice reform, and working families," said Vice President Joe Biden. "Lisa has been with me since day one, and I am grateful that she will be taking on this important role on our campaign. Lisa and I have been in the trenches together, and her continued support is invaluable to me personally and this campaign."
As one of the first Members of Congress to endorse Biden the day he launched his candidacy, Blunt Rochester and Biden have a longstanding and personal relationship. Congresswoman Blunt Rochester has served as the At-Large Representative for the First State since 2017, is the Assistant Whip for House Leadership, a member of the Congressional Progressive Caucus, and the New Democrat Coalition. She has been a champion for working families and a key voice on economic and future-of-work issues, a leader on health care issues, and she has been a fierce advocate of reforming America's criminal justice systems and praised Biden's plan to do so.
  