
    Mitt Romney today announced the support of Louisiana Lieutenant Governor Jay Dardenne and Commissioner of Agriculture and Forestry Mike Strain.
"I'm happy to have the support of both Jay and Mike," said Mitt Romney. "President Obama's economic and energy policies have failed Louisiana and the nation. With the help of leaders like Lt. Gov. Dardenne and Agriculture Commissioner Strain, we can ensure that we defeat President Obama in November and utilize our vast energy resources here at home."
Announcing his support, Lt. Governor Dardenne said, "Conservatives looking to win in November and replace President Obama's failed policies with a pro-growth agenda should look no further than Mitt Romney. His plan to fix our economy will get Washington out of the way of the private sector and his plans to use our energy resources at home will create jobs right here in Louisiana. I am proud to support Mitt Romney and I urge Louisianans who are tired of the policies coming from Washington to support him on Saturday."
"Louisianans are fed up with the failures of the last three years and they want a change in Washington," said Commissioner of Agriculture and Forestry Mike Strain. "Mitt Romney has turned around businesses, saved the Olympics from scandal, and balanced the budget as governor without raising taxes. These are the kinds of results that Louisianans want in our next leader. I support Mitt Romney because we need a president with job-creation experience in order to fix our economy and bring jobs back. I hope that Louisianans also want an experienced leader and will support Mitt on Saturday."
Background on Lt. Gov. Jay Dardenne and Commissioner Strain
Lt. Gov. Dardenne was reelected in October 2011. Dardenne previously served as Secretary of State and for fifteen years as a State Senator. In 2003, Dardenne was named National Republican Legislator of the Year. Dardenne is a graduate of LSU and LSU Law Center. He and his wife Cathy have two sons.
Commissioner Strain previously served for eight years in the Louisiana House of Representatives. Strain has been the owner of Claiborne Hill Veterinary Hospital for twenty-five years.
  