
    Today, less than two weeks before Florida's March 17 primary, Florida Education Association President Fedrick Ingram released the following statement in his personal capacity on Medium announcing his support for Joe Biden for President of the United States:
"As a high school band director who taught in and grew up in one of the poorest communities in Miami, I know firsthand about the need to see the possible, even when conditions make positive outcomes seem impossible. When you are teaching kids who have the deck stacked against them from day one, you have to see what others cannot see in that child — you have to believe that you can teach that child to believe in themselves and succeed. We need a president who believes in educators' ability to make that magic happen for our students, and is willing to partner with educators in providing all children the world-class education they deserve. That is why my choice for president is Vice President Joe Biden.
"I have a personal connection with Joe Biden. He often speaks of his struggles as a child with a stutter and how his teachers worked with him to boost his confidence.
"My own story mirrors his experience: I too had a stutter. I too had teachers who saw more in me than a kid with a speech impediment and helped me overcome the frustration and embarrassment I struggled with for years. Biden understands the value of our profession in a child's life.
"Joe Biden believes that every single person in this country, no matter where they start in life, can achieve if they work at it. He knows that our future depends upon a strong middle class, that is why he supports giving educators the pay and respect they deserve. He knows that something must be done to keep teachers in the classroom. In Florida we have a growing teacher shortage. We see 50 percent of teachers leaving the profession within the first five years of their careers. Biden supports investment in programs that will encourage and support our teachers so they will remain in the classroom.
Florida has experienced the heartbreak of several mass shootings, including the horrendous killing of 17 innocent people at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School. Biden knows the importance of ensuring our students have access to mental health services and has promised to invest resources that will help them grow into healthy adults — both mentally and physically. He has promised to make sure our schools are safe and healthy environments for our students.
"Biden knows all students deserve well-resourced schools and has made a commitment to invest in innovative schools in low-income communities and communities of color. He knows that there is more to education than bubbling-in a standardized test. He knows that preparing our children for the future means learning how to solve problems and collaborate on projects and technical skills, and, closest to my heart, he knows the value of the arts and music in a child's education.
"I believe Biden is the best choice to right the ship.
He can help us move forward to build stronger schools and prepare our students for better jobs. He will work to ensure a thriving economy and healthcare that families can afford. And most importantly, he has the proven ability to help heal the wounds of an extremely divided country, and will bring stability and respect into our relationships in the global arena.
"Joe Biden has beaten the odds many times before. He has the faith and determination to see us through difficult times. That is why he has my full support and why I believe he is the best choice for our next president."
National unions have also endorsed Biden, including the International Association of Firefighters (IAFF), International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers (IBEW), International Association of Bridge, Structural and Ornamental Iron Workers (IW), Amalgamated Transit Union (ATU), Operative Plasterers' & Cement Masons' International Association (OPCMIA). Earlier this week, United Food and Commercial Workers Local 1625, representing 15,000 Floridians, endorsed Biden. The American Federation of Federation of Teachers (AFT) also encouraged members to support Biden among two other candidates.
Biden for President has previously announced more than 1,600 endorsements from national, state, and local leaders, including current and former U.S. senators and representatives, governors, state elected officials, community leaders, and national security professionals.
  