
    
  By the President of the United States Of America
  A Proclamation

To the People of the United States:
I have the sad duty to announce officially the death of Dwight David Eisenhower, the thirty-fourth President of the United States, on March 28, 1969.
In London, in 1945, this great soldier received the Freedom of the City of London. At that time, he said: "... we should turn to those inner things, call them what you will—I mean those intangibles that are the real treasures free men possess."
As a soldier, he was guided by those inner things. As a President, he was strengthened by their wisdom and by the knowledge that the ancient virtues, intangible but unconquerable, could offer comfort and solace even during the darkest hours.
And so it should be with us who today mourn his death. The memory of his greatness is now one of those "real treasures free men possess;" it belongs now to all Americans, and in its simplicity, its devotion, its courage, and its compassion, his life will shape the future as it shaped our time.
As long as free men cherish their freedom, Dwight Eisenhower will stand with them, as he stood during war and peace; strong, confident, and courageous. Even in death he has left us a great spirit that will never die.
Now, Therefore, I, Richard M. Nixon, President of the United States of America, in honor and tribute to the memory of this great and good man, and as an expression of public sorrow, do hereby direct that the flag of the United States be displayed at half-staff at the White House and on all buildings, grounds, and Naval vessels of the United States for a period of thirty days from the day of death. I also direct that for the same length of time the representatives of the United States in foreign countries shall make similar arrangements for the display of the flag at half-staff over their Embassies, Legations, and other facilities abroad, including all military facilities and stations.
I hereby order that suitable honors be rendered by units of the Armed Forces under orders of the Secretary of Defense on the day of the funeral.
I also do appoint Monday, March 31, 1969 to be a National Day of Mourning throughout the United States. I earnestly recommend that the people assemble on that day in their respective places of divine worship, there to bow down in submission to the will of the Almighty God, and to pay their homage of love and reverence to the memory of President Eisenhower. I invite the people of the world who share our grief to join us in this day of mourning and rededication.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-eighth day of March in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and sixty-nine and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and ninety-third.

RICHARD NIXON
  