
    (Arizona) March 19th, 2016 - Tucson Border Patrol Agents have issued a statement to voters ahead of Tuesday's Arizona primary explaining how Donald Trump is the only presidential candidate who has stood with Border Patrol Agents and supported their mission. The statement was issued by Local 2544 of the National Border Patrol Council. Local 2544, representing Tucson Agents, is the largest chapter in the Border Patrol Union. The statement, posted to their website, was released by their chapter President, Art Del Cueto:
"On March 19th, 2016 Donald Trump's campaign reached out to Local 2544 about a potential endorsement. I informed Mr. Trump's campaign that NBPC had long standing practice of not endorsing Presidential candidates and that as the President of Local 2544, and I would continue to adhere to that practice.
However, the National Border Patrol Council and Local 2544 are pleased to inform voters that Mr. Trump is the only candidate that has publicly expressed his support of our mission and our agents. He has been an outspoken candidate on the need for a Secure Border and for this we are grateful.
The American public has continually called for a secure border and Donald Trump has promised to make this desire a reality. His campaign has expressed an interest in a Border Patrol's Agent's perspective and a tour of our border, that we will gladly provide. We do not seek to give tours but if asked we will happily provide a tour that gives a realistic idea of what our agents face on a daily basis. Donald Trump is the only candidate who has expressed this interest.
We are confident that the National Border Patrol Council's longstanding message about the unsecured border and much needed support for our Agents will be received well by Mr. Trump. The American public deserves to be secure in their own country and we encourage all voters to consider that candidate that has the political will to make it happen."
To view the statement on Local 2544's website, please click here. Mr. Trump is deeply grateful for the selfless public service of Border Patrol Agents protecting our nation. Mr. Trump stands strongly behind all Border Patrol Agents and will completely secure the border, enforce all federal immigration laws, safeguard U.S. communities, and finally give our Border Patrol Agents the tools, support and resources they need to fulfill their vital mission.
  