
    Small Naples Meet-and-Greet for Marco Draws Hundreds 
March 12, 2016
Marco had a small-time retail stop planned for Naples on Friday that quickly attracted a crowd of hundreds, spilling into the nearby streets and square.

  Crowd awaiting Marco Rubio outside retail stop in Naples, Florida pic.twitter.com/bAhOhSmvNR
— Sabrina Siddiqui (@SabrinaSiddiqui) March 11, 2016


  Photos: Marco Rubio's visit to 5th Avenue South in Naples https://t.co/f1rOlgRa5h #SWFL pic.twitter.com/aI6N1h60DF
— The News-Press (@TheNewsPress) March 11, 2016


  Naples meet-and-greet with Marco Rubio! #Marcomentum #Vote4MarcoRubio #FloridaPrimary pic.twitter.com/6zakqoLUfX
— Hallie Milner (@HallieKMilner) March 12, 2016

One particular moment stood out: This young woman ran across the street to see Marco, thanks to an assist from her employer:

  Taco Bell worker from across the street says her boss let her come to see rally — snaps a selfie with @marcorubio pic.twitter.com/cDdIta9dRC
— Charlie Spiering (@charliespiering) March 12, 2016

Here's what the Naples Daily News had to say about the scene:

  Hundreds of Rubio supporters packed Sugden Plaza in downtown Naples for a quick meet-and-greet with the senator. Rubio may be far behind Trump in polls, but he was the star walking through the enthusiastic crowd and snapping cell phone photos with supporters as he made his way to Yabba Island Grill.
It was a burst of excitement for the Naples crowd, eager to get involved in this presidential race before Tuesday's primary. In always important Florida, where all 99 Republican delegates go to the winner, Rubio is the first presidential candidate from either party to mingle with a crowd during such a public appearance in Collier or Lee counties.

Voters in the area seemed especially motivated by the idea of voting for Marco to stop Trump:

  Blake Walker used his 10-year-old son Brayden as a wedge to get close to Rubio. The tactic worked. Both father and son squeezed to the front to shake his hand.
"I told him, 'Please beat Trump for me,'" Brayden said, beaming after the encounter. "He said, 'I'll try.'"
Joan Hoffmeister of Naples was at the front of the line to meet Rubio on Friday.
"I want to stop Trump," she said, "because I don't like his image of America, of our values."

  