
    Boston, Massachusetts — Today, building off of the momentum of Joe Biden's big win in South Carolina, Vicki Kennedy, State Senator Anne Gobi, State Representative Danielle Gregoire and 20 additional leaders from across the Bay State announced their endorsement of Joe Biden for President. This new slate of supporters brings Joe Biden's Bay State endorsements to more than 100.
"Our country needs a leader who solves problems by bringing people together. Joe Biden is that leader. He led the fight to make health care a human right and he'll continue to expand access to health care as POTUS. I'm proud to vote for him in the Massachusetts Primary tomorrow," said Vicki Kennedy.
"Joe Biden is an experienced and respected leader who has built necessary relationships, both domestically and foreign. He understands the importance of these relationships and their effect on our nation's security and prosperity. I'm endorsing Joe Biden because he is the candidate we need to restore integrity in the Oval Office and he will work hard to reunify our country," said State Senator Anne Gobi.
"Vice President Joe Biden has been a stalwart servant of the public for decades fighting to better the quality of life for working families, to increase educational opportunities for our youth and to level the playing field for women and people of color. The Vice President is the only candidate in this race who can hit the ground running on day one to reverse the damage done by the current administration to our environment, our courts and our international reputation, to name just a few. In this race, experience matters and only Vice President Biden has the long-standing and widely varying experience we as democrats need to win in November. I am proud to stand with Joe and ask you to join me in casting your ballot for him in the MA primary on March 3rd," said State Representative Danielle Gregoire.
"At a time when our country is divided and our leadership is divisive, we need a leader who can hit the ground running on day one to heal the soul of our nation. Springfield needs a President who will look out for them and Joe Biden is the only candidate that has made policy a practice. From the Affordable Care Act to the Violence Against Women Act, Joe has been fighting for people like my neighbors since he started in politics. I am proud to support Joe because he has always supported my neighbors," said Springfield City Council President Justin Hurst.
The full list of Massachusetts leaders endorsing Joe Biden for President today include:

Vicki Kennedy, Lawyer
Anne Gobi, State Senator
Danielle Gregoire, State Representative
Ruth Balser, State Representative
Michael O. Moore, State Senator
Daniel Cahill, State Representative
Colleen Garry, State Representative
Daniel J. Hunt, State Representative
Kay Khan, State Representative
Alice Peisch, State Representative
Edward F. Coppinger, State Representative
Brian Arrigo, Revere Mayor
Justin Hurst, Springfield City Council President
Kateri B. Walsh, Springfield City Councilor
Winthrop Farwell, Jr., Brockton City Councilor
Karen Canfield, Scituate Selectman
Mark D'Agostino, Brockton School Committee Member
Bob Markel, former Springfield Mayor
Stephen Brewer, former State Senator
Michael Perotto, former Worcester City Councilor
William Eddy, former Worcester City Councilor
Francis A Ford, former Worcester County Clerk of Courts
Bill Samaras, former Mayor of Lowell

These leaders join the more than 90 Bay State leaders who have previously announced their endorsement for Joe Biden for President, including former Secretary of State John Kerry, U.S. Representatives Seth Moulton and Stephen Lynch, State Sen. Marc Pacheco, and more. Biden for President has previously announced more than 1,400 endorsements from national, state, and local leaders, including current and former U.S. senators and representatives, governors, state elected officials, community leaders, and national security professionals.
  