
    Obama Campaign's Negative Tactics in Stark Contrast to Real Solutions Presented by Hillary in Visits with Mississippians
Jackson, MS - Mississippi for Hillary campaign co-chairs State Representative George Flaggs and former State Senator Gloria Williamson today decried the negative tone of Sen. Obama's campaign in Mississippi, in contrast to the real solutions Hillary has offered the people of Mississippi in her visits to the state.
"I'm supporting Hillary because her campaign is based on providing solutions to the many challenges facing the working men and women of Mississippi," said State Representative George Flaggs, Mississippi for Hillary campaign co-chair. "This is in stark contrast to the repeated false attacks the Obama campaign has offered Mississippians throughout the last week. We deserve better."
Senator Obama's campaign in Mississippi has launched a discredited negative radio advertisement in the state. In addition, campaign surrogates have launched repeated, false attacks against Hillary.
"It is time for Senator Obama to come clean with the people of Mississippi," Former State Senator Gloria Williamson. "All Mississippi has seen from his campaign is attack after attack, as opposed to the solutions to universal healthcare, the faltering economy and the war in Iraq that Hillary has talked about during her visits to the state. Mississippi needs someone who will fight for them. Sen. Obama's campaign here has not explained what he would do as president, but has instead attacked others. That won't solve our problems."
In the last week alone, Sen. Obama's campaign used divisive language to suggest Sen Clinton insulted Mississippians, falsely charged that her campaign called voters in Mississippi 'second class' (which has been discredited by outside media organizations), and attacked Hillary about tax returns even though her campaign has repeatedly said she will release them around tax time. By contrast, Hillary has met with Mississippians and talked about her positive plans to jumpstart the economy, provide universal health coverage for all Americans, and be a strong commander in chief on day one.
  