
    Your Majesty, our warm personal relationship is but one example of the closeness and continuity that are so evident in the long friendship between Jordan and the United States.
I recall with very great pleasure my first official meeting with Your Majesty when I was Vice President. Shortly after I became President, you were the first head of state that I received in the White House.
Today it is again my pleasure to welcome you to Washington. I reaffirm my greetings of 2 years ago, again with a wonderful Arabic saying, our home is your home and you.
Your Majesty and your gracious and lovely Queen are indeed welcome and honored guests. On behalf of the American people, I offer our hospitality and our affection. You are sincere friends of our country.
Since the beginning of your reign in 1952, you have known and shared the confidence of every American President beginning with Dwight David Eisenhower. Despite the tensions in the Middle East, our friendship has withstood every test and met every challenge and every crisis. We continue to understand and appreciate each other's concerns and motivations. We share a profound interest in peace and stability of the Middle East. We must continue to work together to achieve this mutual goal.
During a period covering five American administrations, Your Majesty's leadership has provided continuity in the special association of our two nations. As the symbol of Hashemite Jordan's courage, honor, and steadfastness, Your Majesty is widely admired and respected by the American people.
For more than two decades, you have demonstrated your determination to do what is right for your own people. You have shunned the line of least resistance and stood firm in the face of adversity. You have proven yourself a loyal friend of America, and Americans admire loyalty. Americans also admire wisdom and courageous leadership. We value your role as a force for reason and moderation in pursuit of a just and durable peace in the Middle East. We value your counsel.
During your stay in Washington, Your Majesty, we shall have an opportunity to discuss a wide range of bilateral and regional concerns. We shall discuss our cooperation in strengthening and developing the Kingdom of Jordan, and we shall consider how, as friends, we can advance the cause of peace in the Middle East.
Relations between the United States and Jordan have been so close, they have become a real tradition. Our common endeavor is so firmly rooted that I welcome you not only as a statesman and leader of a very proud nation but also as a sincere friend who has come to visit among friends.
We are pleased to have Your Majesties with us again. I hope that your stay in the United States will reinforce the bonds between our two nations in the cause of peace.
  