
    The President today has nominated five individuals and intends to appoint ten individuals to serve in his Administration:
The President has nominated Henry Bonilla, of Texas, to be Permanent Representative of the United States of America to the Organization of American States (with the rank of Ambassador). Representative Bonilla is a former Member of the United States House of Representatives. Before serving in Congress, Representative Bonilla spent fifteen years in the television news business. Representative Bonilla received his bachelor's degree from the University of Texas.
The President has nominated Hans G. Klemm, of Michigan, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Democratic Republic of East Timor-Leste. Mr. Klemm is a career member of the Senior Foreign Service and currently serves as Minister-Counselor for Economic Affairs at the United States Embassy in Japan. Prior to this, he served as Director of the Office of Career Development and Assignments in the Bureau of Human Resources at the Department of State. Earlier in his career, he served as Director of the Office of Agricultural, Biotechnology, and Textile Trade Affairs in the Bureau of Economic and Business Affairs. Mr. Klemm received his bachelor's degree from Indiana University and his master's degree from Stanford University.
The President has nominated William R. Brownfield, of Texas, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Colombia. Ambassador Brownfield, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, currently serves as U.S. Ambassador to the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela. Prior to this he served as Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Chile. Earlier in his career, he served as Deputy Assistant Secretary in the Bureau of Western Hemisphere Affairs at the Department of State. Ambassador Brownfield received his bachelor's degree from Cornell University and graduated from the National War College.
The President has nominated Phillip Carter III, of Virginia, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Guinea. Mr. Carter, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, currently serves as Country Director in the Office of West African Affairs at the Bureau of African Affairs at the Department of State. Prior to this, he served as Deputy Director of the Office of East African Affairs in the Bureau of African Affairs at the Department of State. Earlier in his career, he served as Deputy Chief of Mission in Antananarivo, Madagascar. Mr. Carter received his bachelor's degree from Drew University and his master's degree from Yale University.
The President has nominated Stephen W. Porter, of the District of Columbia, to be a Member of the National Council on the Arts for the remainder of a six-year term expiring September 3, 2012.
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the Board of Visitors to the United States Air Force Academy for three-year terms expiring December 30, 2009:


  H. Gary Morse, of Florida
  A.J. Scribante, of Kansas

The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the United States Holocaust Memorial Council, for the remainder of five-year terms expiring January 15, 2012:


  Fred S. Zeidman, of Texas, and upon appointment redesignate Chair
  Miriam Adelson, of Nevada
  Tom A. Bernstein, of New York
  Carol B. Cohen, of Illinois
  Joel M. Geiderman, of California
  Michael J. Gerson, of Virginia
  Zvi Gitelman, of Michigan
  William S. Levine, of Arizona

  