
    Former Pennsylvania Governor and US Attorney General Dick Thornburgh announced today his support for Ohio Governor John Kasich as the Republican nominee for President.
Said Thornburgh, "I am delighted to endorse Governor Kasich. He has the experience, vision and common sense to be a great President. As the only governor still in the race— and being governor is a job I know well— he's proven his ability to shake things up and get things done. He knows how to balance a budget. He knows how to create jobs. He knows how to listen. There's been a lot of talk and a lot of distractions in this race so far, but I'm supporting a man who has shown real leadership."
"Moreover, I am firmly convinced that John Kasich is the party's best candidate to defeat the Democratic nominee this November."
"Finally, John Kasich is a man of integrity, faith, tolerance, compassion and commitment to his community. Those are the values our families teach and honor in Western Pennsylvania, where both Governor Kasich and I were born and raised, and I think those are the values we ought to look for in a President."
In response to this key endorsement, Kasich said, "I am very grateful to have the support of Governor Dick Thornburgh. A deeply respected public servant, Dick is a remarkable yet humble leader who has dedicated his life to protecting the rule of law for the betterment of the American people. I would like to thank him for his help as we work to bring our positive and solutions-driven message to the great state of Pennsylvania."

Dick Thornburgh served as Pennsylvania Governor from 1979 to 1988. Thornburgh balanced the commonwealth's budgets for eight successive years, reduced both personal and business tax rates, cut the state's record-high indebtedness and left a surplus of $350 million. He was widely recognized for his economic development initiatives and for implementing welfare reform programs. Pennsylvania's unemployment rate, among the ten highest in the nation when he was elected, was among the ten lowest when he left office as 50,000 new businesses and 500,000 new private sector jobs were created during his tenure.
In 1988, President Ronald Reagan appointed Thornburgh as the United States Attorney General and he was retained by President George H.W. Bush. Thornburgh served three years as Attorney General.
Thornburgh now serves as counsel to the international law firm K&L Gates in its Pittsburgh office. He is an advisor and counselor to the firm's government affairs clients with respect to matters concerning federal, state and local governments as well as international organizations.
  