
    To the Senate of the United States:
With a view to receiving the advice and consent of the Senate to ratification, I transmit herewith the Second Supplementary Treaty on Extradition between the United States of America and the Kingdom of Spain, signed at Madrid on February 9, 1988. I also transmit for the information of the Senate the report of the Department of State with respect to this Supplementary Treaty.
The Second Supplementary Treaty supplements and amends the Treaty on Extradition between the United States of America and Spain, signed at Madrid on May 29, 1970, as amended by the Supplementary Treaty on Extradition, signed at Madrid on January 25, 1975 and is designed to update and standardize the conditions and procedures for extradition between the United States and Spain. Most significant, it substitutes a dual criminality clause for a current list of extraditable offenses so that, inter alia, certain additional narcotics offenses will be covered by the Treaty. The Second Supplementary Treaty also provides a legal basis for temporarily surrendering prisoners to stand trial for crimes against the laws of the Requesting State.
This Supplementary Treaty further represents an important step in combatting terrorism by excluding from the scope of the political offense exception serious offenses typically committed by terrorists, e.g., murder; voluntary manslaughter; voluntary assault and battery inflicting serious bodily harm; kidnapping; abduction; hostage-taking; illegal detention; the illegal use of explosives, automatic weapons, and incendiary or destructive devices or substances; attempt or participation in such offenses, as well as conspiracy or illicit association to commit such offenses. It also excludes from the reach of the political offense exception a murder or other willful crime against the person of a Head of State or a member of the first family of a Contracting Party, as well as any offense for which both Contracting Parties have a multilateral treaty obligation to extradite the person or submit the case to prosecution.
The provisions in this Supplementary Treaty follow generally the form and content of extradition treaties recently concluded by the United States. Upon entry into force, it will supplement and amend the existing Extradition Treaty and Supplementary Extradition Treaty between the United States and Spain.
The Supplementary Treaty will make a significant contribution to international cooperation in law enforcement. I recommend that the Senate give early and favorable consideration to the Supplementary Treaty and give its advice and consent to ratification.
George Bush
The White House,
March 3, 1992.
  