
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate eight individuals to serve in his administration.
The President intends to nominate Eric M. Bost to be Under Secretary of Agriculture for Food, Nutrition and Consumer Services. He is currently the Commissioner and CEO of the Texas Department of Human Services where he has served since 1997 and was previously the Deputy Director of the Arizona Department of Economic Security. He served from 1992 to 1993 as the Director and Administrator of the Mental Retardation and Developmental Disabilities Administration at the U.S. Department of Human Services. He is a graduate of the University of North Carolina and received a Master's degree from the University of South Florida.
The President intends to nominate Tom C. Dorr to be Under Secretary of Agriculture for Rural Development. He is presently the CEO and President of Dorr's Pine Grove Farm Company, a 3000-acre corn and soybean farm in Marcus, Iowa. He is a graduate of Morningside College.
The President intends to nominate J.B. Penn to be Under Secretary of Agriculture for Farm and Foreign Agriculture Services. He is currently the Senior Vice President of Sparks Companies, Inc., and was previously the President and co-founder of Economic Perspectives, an independent consulting company. He served in a variety of positions at the Department of Agriculture from 1967 to 1981, excluding one year as a Senior Staff Economist on the President's Council of Economic Advisors from 1977 to 1978. Originally from Arkansas, he is a graduate of Arkansas State University, received his Master's degree from Louisiana State University and a Ph.D. from Purdue University.
The President intends to nominate Bruce Marshall Carnes to be Chief Financial Officer of the Department of Energy. He is currently Deputy Director of Defense Financing and Accounting Services at the Department of Defense and was awarded the DOD Exemplary Civilian Service Award. He served as the Director of Planning, Budget and Administration at the Office of National Drug Control Policy from 1989 to 1993 and was Deputy Under Secretary of Education from 1985 to 1988. He is a graduate of the University of Colorado and received both a Master's degree and Ph.D. from Indiana University.
The President intends to nominate Jessie Hill Roberson to be Assistant Secretary of Energy for Environmental Management. She is currently a member of the Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board and was previously the Department of Energy's Manager of the Rocky Flats Field Office at the Rocky Flats Environmental Technology Site in Colorado from 1996 to 1999. She has also held positions with Georgia Power Company and DuPont. Originally from Evergree, Alabama, she is a graduate of the University of Tennessee at Knoxville.
The President intends to nominate Tom Scully to be Administrator of the Health Care Financing Administration. He is presently the President and Chief Executive Officer of the Federation of American Hospitals. He served as Deputy Assistant to the President and Counselor to the Director of the Office of Management and Budget from 1992 to 1993 and as Associate Director of the OMB for Human Resources, Veterans and Labor from 1989 to 1992. He is a graduate of the University of Virginia and received his J.D. from Catholic University.
The President intends to nominate Angela Styles to be Administrator of Federal Procurement Policy at the Office of Management and Budget. She is currently the Special Assistant to the Associate Administrator for Government Wide Policy at General Services Administration and was previously Counsel to the Government Contracts Group at Miller and Chevalier Chartered in Washington, D.C. From 1994 to 1996 she served as an Associate with the Government Contracts Group at Baker & Botts and was the Programs Manager for the Central Office of Funds Management at the Texas Office of State Federal Relations from 1990 to 1991. She is a graduate of the University of Virginia and received her Law Degree from the University of Texas School of Law.
The President intends to nominate Otto J. Reich to be an Assistant Secretary of State for Western Hemisphere Affairs. He is presently the President of RMA International Inc. Reich served from 1986 to 1989 as U.S. Ambassador to Venezuela and received the State Department's Exemplary Service Award and Superior Honor Award. He was Special Advisor to the Secretary of State from 1983 to 1986. during which time he established and managed the interagency Office of Public Diplomacy for Latin America and the Caribbean, and he was Assistant Administrator of the U.S. Agency for International Development from 1981 to 1983. He received his bachelor's degree from the University of North Carolina and a Master's degree from Georgetown University.
  