
    President Donald J. Trump today announced key additions to his Administration.
Benjamin Cassidy of Massachusetts will serve as Assistant Secretary for Legislative Affairs for the Department of Homeland Security. Mr. Cassidy serves as Special Counsel to the Secretary of Homeland Security in the Department's Office of Legislative Affairs. Before joining the Department, he was a senior executive at The Boeing Company, leading international business development and government relations assignments in the defense sector. While at Boeing during the Bush Administration, Mr. Cassidy worked extensively to advance strategic missile defense relationships with international industry partners in support of U.S. Government policy. He has also served as the Defense and Foreign Policy Legislative Assistant for Senator John Warner of Virginia. Before his Senate work, Mr. Cassidy served in a variety of Marine Corps command and staff assignments, including representing the Commandant of the Marine Corps as the Marine Corps' Liaison to the Senate. As a Marine officer, Mr. Cassidy served extensively in Latin America including in Brazil, Colombia, Bolivia, and Chile. He is fluent in several languages, including Spanish, Portuguese, French and Italian. He is a recipient of the Legion of Merit for his Marine Corps service and the Order of Naval Merit (Grade of Officer) from Brazil.
Jonathan Rath Hoffman of South Carolina will serve as Assistant Secretary for Public Affairs for the Department of Homeland Security. For almost a decade, Mr. Hoffman has advised non-profits, businesses, and political candidates on public affairs and government relations strategies. He recently served as the South Carolina Executive Director for the national security non-profit Americans for Peace, Prosperity, and Security. Mr. Hoffman previously served at the Department of Homeland Security as the Deputy Assistant Secretary for Intergovernmental Programs. Before that, he was the Director of International Programs and Border Security Policy at the White House Homeland Security Council. He also served in a variety of roles at the Department of State, Customs and Border Protection and in the office of the Secretary of Homeland Security. Mr. Hoffman has taught homeland security and domestic terrorism as an adjunct professor at the Citadel. He has also taught law school courses on military justice and immigration law. He earned a BA from the University of Richmond and a JD from the University of Virginia. In addition to his professional work, he serves as a major in the Air Force Reserve Judge Advocate General Corps.
---
President Donald J. Trump Announces Intent to Nominate Key Administration Post
President Donald J. Trump today announced his intent to nominate a key addition to his Administration.
If confirmed, Ryan Dean Newman of Virginia will serve as General Counsel of the Department of the Army. A former Army Captain, Mr. Newman deployed to Iraq in 2003 as part of Operation Iraqi Freedom where he was awarded the Bronze Star Medal for meritorious service. Mr. Newman is currently the acting Assistant Attorney General for the Office of Legal Policy at the Department of Justice. He previously served as Chief Counsel to U.S. Senator Ted Cruz and as a law clerk to Supreme Court Justice Samuel A. Alito, Judge J.L. Edmondson, of the Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit, and Judge Richard J. Leon, of the District Court for the District of Columbia. He has also worked as a lawyer at Jones Day. Mr. Newman holds a BS degree from West Point and a JD degree with high honors from the University of Texas School of Law.
  