
    Today, Biden for President is announcing a new endorsement from Michael L. Bivins.
Michael L. Bivins is an American singer, entertainer, manager and producer, and a founding member of New Edition and Bell Biv DeVoe, which is credited with being one of the pioneers of the new jack swing sound.
Bivins is a Boston, MA native to heart and is known as the community ambassador in the city of Boston. His roots, community, and walk of life all come from Boston. Bivins currently serves as the CEO to Sportyrich Enterprises, Inc. Bivins has discovered, managed, and produced for others -- notably acts such as Boyz II Men, Another Bad Creation, and 702 -- all of whom were signed to his Motown distributed label Biv 10 Records. Bivins also produced the New Edition Movie.
"If President Barack Obama said for two different terms this is the guy I need and want by my side to move this country forward for more fairness -- we have to respect his judgment because they did a great job together. We need someone in the Oval Office that will fight for everyone. We need Joe Biden who has spent his entire career calling out and tackling systematic racism and has always fought and delivered for every community no matter their zip code, race, or income. Joe Biden has the experience of getting things done. He is the bridge we need in our society right now. American leadership is being tested. Our country is at a turning point where the next election will dictate the direction of action on critical issues such as health care, climate change, and vital social safety net programs. We need Joe Biden on the frontlines, fighting for what matters and protecting disenfranchised communities. This country needs Joe as president," said Michael L. Bivins.
Biden for President has previously announced more than 1,700 endorsements from national, state, and local leaders, including current and former U.S. senators and representatives, governors, state elected officials, community leaders, and national security professionals.
  