
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

Americans increasingly look to the water for recreation and relaxation. This year, approximately one-quarter of us will enjoy boating in one or more of its many and varied forms. Therefore, it is important that all those involved in recreational boating observe proper safety practices, know and obey rules of safe boating, and show courtesy and consideration on the water.
In addition, all boaters should wear personal flotation devices while on the water. Seventy-five percent of those who died in boating accidents last year might have been saved had they worn these devices, according to United States Coast Guard instructions.
The theme of this year's "National Safe Boating Week" emphasizes the dangers of combining alcohol consumption with boat operation. The use of alcohol and other intoxicating substances is a major factor in boating accidents and fatalities. Boat operators who drink impair their ability to recognize and react to hazards and thereby endanger not only themselves but also others on the water. The use of even small amounts of alcohol can significantly reduce an operator's judgment and boat handling skills. This is particularly true as fatigue caused by sun, glare, noise, wind, and boat motion intensifies the effects of alcohol. Through the observance of "National Safe Boating Week, 1984," Americans should be alerted to these dangers.
In recognition of the need for boating safety, the Congress enacted the joint resolution of June 4, 1958 (36 U.S.C. 161), as amended, authorizing and requesting the President to proclaim annually the week commencing on the first Sunday in June as National Safe Boating Week.
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the week beginning June 3, 1984, as National Safe Boating Week.
I also invite the Governors of the States, Puerto Rico, the Northern Mariana Islands, the Virgin Islands, Guam, and American Samoa, and the Mayor of the District of Columbia to provide for the observance of this week.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-second day of March in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-four, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and eighth.

RONALD REAGAN
  