
    "No one else has done so much for so long to earn the nation's highest trust." - Sun Sentinel
Today, two of Florida's largest papers — the Sun Sentinel and the Tampa Bay Times — recommended Joe Biden to be the Democratic nominee for President. In their endorsements of Joe Biden, both cite his decades of experience and his ability to unite our country to move forward.
The Sun Sentinel: Editorial: Joe Biden is the man of the hour for Florida and the nation
The stunning 10-state triumph of former Vice President Joe Biden... shows the depth and breadth of America's yearning for the return of decency and dignity to the White House.
...Democrats want, need and deserve a candidate known not for anger, but for accomplishments; for humility, not hostility; and for decency, not demagoguery.
...No one else has done so much for so long to earn the nation's highest trust.
...Biden is the candidate Trump fears most — so much so that he committed impeachable offenses to disparage him. Both Trump and Vladimir Putin would prefer to see Sanders as the Democratic nominee.
Equally important to his policies, Biden's personality and character make him the best candidate for this perilous time.
Widely experienced. Thoroughly decent. Ideologically moderate. If Joe Biden is not a man for all seasons, he is certainly the man of the hour.
We are proud to endorse Joe Biden for the presidency of the United States.
Tampa Bay Times: Editorial: Times recommends: Joe Biden for Democrats
...As both political parties tilt toward their extremes, Biden could steer the country toward the middle with a steady hand.
He knows how to make government work for the greater good, and he has collaborated with Republicans and Democrats alike...
Biden takes positions that are progressive and possible.
He would pursue universal health coverage by building on the Affordable Care Act, not by pushing a government takeover that Congress won't approve and Americans won't support. He was an early leader on climate change and embraces aggressive goals, but he would not immediately ban fracking that extracts natural gas. He would forgive student loan debt in exchange for public service and suggests two years of community college could be free, but he does not call for all student loan debt to be magically wiped away or embrace the fantasy of entirely free tuition at public colleges and universities…
The Super Tuesday results also demonstrate Biden can boost voter turnout, particularly among blacks, women and suburban voters.
Biden's mainstream approach and personal decency could appeal to Republican and independent voters seeking an alternative to the incumbent in November.
  