
    Today, the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers, which represents 600,000 active and retired members across North America, issued the following press release announcing their endorsement of Joe Biden for President of the United States:
Machinists Union Membership Votes to Endorse Joe Biden
WASHINGTON, March 8, 2020 – The International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers (IAM), utilizing an unprecedented democratic process that included a general membership vote open to all U.S. members in good standing, has endorsed Joe Biden for president of the United States.
The IAM's endorsement is the majority will of the IAM's membership and its state councils, who voted online through an independent third party in early March. More about the IAM's endorsement process is available at iam2020.org.
A statement from IAM International President Robert Martinez Jr.:
"Our union made it a priority in the 2020 election cycle to give IAM members a real say in who we endorse for president of the United States. Since we announced this process in May 2019, we have encouraged members from coast to coast to register and make their voices heard in this important decision. We also urged presidential candidates to listen to our membership and speak about the issues that IAM members believe are most critical.
"Today the IAM is proud to announce our endorsement for Joe Biden, a proven leader who we believe can take back the White House and restore power back to working people and unions. Joe understands that unions built the middle class and that working people deserve their fair share of the prosperity we create. At this time more than ever, we need a leader who can deliver for workers and communities across this nation on retirement security, affordable health care and stronger protections for workers and unions. Our members have indicated that strong support for these issues is critical for our endorsement. Joe Biden has been fighting for these issues throughout his career.
"Make no mistake, workers' rights including safety and health and the right to unionize and bargain collectively, is on the ballot this November. We have endured four years of attacks on working people in the form of anti-union judges and NLRB decisions, attacks on our retirement and health care, and more. The GOP tax plan gave enormous tax breaks to multinational corporations while resulting in more than 50 plant closures for IAM members since the president took office. We cannot afford another four years of anti-worker policies being dictated to us by corporate-bought politicians in Washington.
"Joe Biden strongly supports the PRO Act, which would hold corporations accountable for violating labor laws and repeal anti-union right-to-work laws. Joe has also pledged to protect the pensions of workers and strengthen our ability to bargain for better wages, benefits and working conditions. Joe would also end the senseless attacks on federal workers and fight for multi-employer pensions by passing the Butch Lewis Act.
"I encourage our members whose preferred candidate did not receive our endorsement to remain committed to our core principles. In a union as diverse as the IAM, it is OK to have different views with one common cause. We are strongest when we are united.
"Our membership has spoken and chosen a bold, progressive vision for our country that places the interests of working people first. From this point on, we will mobilize our membership to win the Democratic nomination for Joe Biden. No matter what happens in the months ahead, it is clear that working people demand a different direction and their fair share of power in Washington and across the country."
The Machinists Union represents 600,000 active and retired members across North America in the aerospace, general manufacturing, defense, transportation, shipbuilding, woodworking, electronics and other industries. For more on the IAM, visit goIAM.org.
Other national unions have also endorsed Biden, including the International Association of Firefighters (IAFF), International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers (IBEW), International Association of Bridge, Structural and Ornamental Iron Workers (IW), Amalgamated Transit Union (ATU), and Operative Plasterers' & Cement Masons' International Association (OPCMIA). The American Federation of Federation of Teachers (AFT) also encouraged members to support Biden among two other candidates.
  