
    
"From children to families to health care to human rights, including women's rights, to marriage equality, Clinton champions issues and positions true to traditional Democratic principles."
Hillary Clinton continues to earn endorsements from major newspapers across the country—including many that endorsed then-Senator Barack Obama for president in 2008.

The Cleveland Plain Dealer1, St. Louis Post-Dispatch2, Chicago Sun-Times3, Jackson Clarion-Ledger4, Boston Globe5, Iowa City Press-Citizen6, Tampa Bay Times7, San Antonio Express-News8, Houston Chronicle 9, Dallas Morning News 10, Sioux City Journal 11, Corpus Christi Caller-Times 12, Fort Worth Star-Telegram 13, Greenville News 14, and Portsmouth Herald & Foster's Daily Democrat 15 are all backing Hillary, because she's the best candidate to protect and build on the progress we've made.

Here's what they had to say:

Cleveland Plain Dealer


  " She knows the issues. She understands the art of the deal. She's credible and she's impressive. She not only can win the White House, but she also will be ready once she gets there ..."

St. Louis Post-Dispatch


  " Clinton is, by far, the Democrats' best option to retain the presidency, which is why she receives this newspaper's endorsement in the March 15 Missouri and Illinois primaries. She would work on behalf of her party to stop the nation's dangerous lurch toward political extremism. Her demonstrable toughness and perseverance is a quality Americans must demand in their next president."

Chicago Sun-Times


  " She has long favored the kind of common-sense gun controls this city and country desperately need. She has been a champion of civil rights, women's issues and comprehensive immigration reform, including the creation of a pathway to citizenship. She opposes privatizing Social Security and believes working people should be guaranteed, by law, up to 12 weeks of paid family and medical leave."

Jackson Clarion-Ledger


  " She is an intelligent, successful, passionate woman who brings a lifetime of personal and professional experiences that would serve her well as president. She is not an idealist, but a pragmatist who is dedicated to fighting for her principles while understanding that compromise is the bedrock of our republic government. It is an approach to leadership sadly missing today, and we feel she would help restore it as president."

Boston Globe


  " If part of the next president's job is to tackle the unfinished business Obama will likely leave behind, an equally important goal must be to defend the milestones his presidency achieved on civil rights, health care reform, climate change, and foreign policy ..."

Iowa City Press-Citizen


  " There can be little doubt that in terms of raw experience, there is no more qualified person for the presidency than Hillary Clinton. No candidate on either side of the aisle has racked up the credentials she has, and she has done so under sustained attack from members of both parties. It's the opinion of the board there might not be a more qualified candidate in the modern history of the United States."

Tampa Bay Times


  " The frustration over the economic recovery that benefits too few Americans, the shortcomings of health care reform and the high cost of college education is genuine. So are the concerns about global terrorism, personal security at home and the nation's relationships with old adversaries abroad. ... Clinton is clearly the best prepared to achieve results in each of those areas."

San Antonio Express-News


  " And as secretary of state, she helped Obama chart a foreign policy course weighted more properly toward diplomacy than military might, while talking about gender equality and other human rights around the world."

Houston Chronicle


  " If elected, we believe she will continue the balanced priorities of an Obama administration that's overseen steady economic growth, a 5 percent unemployment rate and 17 million people with health insurance who didn't have it before."

Dallas Morning News


  " She crisscrossed the globe, tirelessly strengthening this country's diplomatic reach in the face of fast-evolving security threats and global crises. That's experience that none of her rivals, in either party, can match."

Sioux City Journal


  " From children to families to health care to human rights, including women's rights, to marriage equality, Clinton champions issues and positions true to traditional Democratic principles. She bolsters her domestic credentials with foreign policy experience as America's chief diplomat."

Corpus Christi Caller-Times


  " The weight of Clinton's r?sum? alone should crush Sanders. The Vermont senator can talk about universal health care but Clinton stands alone in having tried valiantly—and unsuccessfully—to achieve it and to have learned from defeat."

Fort Worth Star-Telegram


  " Clinton has a long list of sound policy proposals, from aiming for a cure for Alzheimer's to campaign finance reform, climate change, early education, higher education, the economy, gun violence, immigration, racial justice, Social Security, veterans, workforce skills and more."

Greenville News


  " Clinton stands above Sanders as someone who could step in and lead in a way that recognizes the need for compromise and cooperation in our federal government."

Portsmouth Herald & Foster's Daily Democrat


  " She has articulated a vision for the country that is both progressive and pragmatic and has demonstrated the ability and tenacity to achieve the ambitious goals she has set for herself and the nation."

  