
    Pool Reports by Daniel Bush, Newsweek 



Sent:
Reports:




March 10, 202313:35

VP pool report #1 -- holding for remarks
Good afternoon, I'll be your print pooler for Vice President Harris' roundtable with Labor Secretary Marty Walsh.
The pool is gathered in the EEOB and holding for the event to start. It will be livestreamed by the White House. Background info from the VP's office:
On Background from a White House Official
Today, as chair of the White House Task Force on Worker Organizing and Empowerment, Vice President Harris will convene a roundtable with executives from four companies, including several in the clean energy sector, to discuss the benefits of union labor. In the end convening, the Vice President will underscore that companies, in addition to workers, benefit from having positive relationships with their workers. The Vice President will be joined by Vice-Chair of the Task Force, Labor Secretary Marty Walsh. The Vice President's remarks will start at 1:30PM ET and be livestreamed at WhiteHouse.gov/live.
Participants:- The Vice President- Secretary Marty Walsh, U.S. Department of Labor- Steve Crowley, General Counsel and Chief Policy Officer, Ford Motor Company- Mark DePaoli, Member, UAW Local 600- David Hardy, Group Executive Vice President and CEO, Americas Region at Ørsted- Jermaine Jones, Director, Baltimore DC Building Trades Council- Ann Fairchild, General Counsel, Siemens- Sumran Khampeth, Siemens, IBEW LU 220- Amy Pannoni, Deputy General Counsel, Microsoft- Autumn Mitchell, Member CWA Local 2108
The company executives and workers, who represent a cross section of trades and specialties within the clean energy sector, will highlight the mutual benefits of unionized labor, including recruitment and training for workers.



March 10, 202313:39

VP pool report #2 — event underway
Pool was brought into the VP's Ceremonial Office at 1:35 pm. VP Harris was seated around the table with Sec. Walsh and others.
Walsh kicked things off by noting at the top that this was his "last official" meeting as labor secretary.
Follow along on the WH site.



March 10, 202313:52

VP pool report #3 — remarks over
Pool was ushered out at 1:48 pm after brief remarks by the VP.
Harris thanked Sec. Walsh for his service, touted his achievements, and touched on the importance of organized labor.
That's it for me. Have a good weekend,




  