
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to appoint three individuals to serve in his administration:
The President intends to appoint Jeane J. Kirkpatrick of Maryland, to be a Representative of the United States of America on the Human Rights Commission of the Economic and Social Council of the United Nations. Dr. Kirkpatrick currently serves as Senior Fellow and Director of Foreign and Defense Policy Studies at the American Enterprise Institute. Throughout her career, she has served as a Leavey Professor at Georgetown University, as a columnist for the Los Angeles Times and as a member of the Defense Policy Review Board. She has also served as a member of the President's Foreign Intelligence Advisory Board and as a U.S. Representative to the United Nations. Dr. Kirkpatrick is a graduate of Barnard College. She earned her master's degree and her Ph.D. from Columbia University.
The President intends to appoint Robert P. Liscouski of Virginia, to be Assistant Secretary for Infrastructure Protection, Department of Homeland Security. Mr. Liscouski currently serves as the Director of Information Assurances at the Coca-Cola Company. He also currently serves as a member of the Intelligence Science Board. Earlier in his career, he served as a Diplomatic Security Service Special Agent with the U.S. Department of State and as a Criminal Investigator for the Bergen County Prosecutors Office. Mr. Liscouski is a graduate of the John Jay College of Criminal Justice, and received his master's degree from the John F. Kennedy School of Government, at Harvard University.
The President intends to appoint Paul J. Redmond of Massachusetts, to be Assistant Secretary for Information Analysis, Department of Homeland Security. Mr. Redmond currently serves as a consultant to the Director of the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA). Mr. Redmond has spent over 30 years of service with the CIA, both overseas and domestically. Most recently, he served as Associate Deputy Director for Operations for Counterintelligence, Special Assistant to the Director for Counterintelligence and Security, and Deputy Chief of the D.C.I. Counterintelligence Center. Mr. Redmond is a recipient of the Federal Order of Merit and the Distinguished Intelligence Medal for his service. He received his bachelor's degree from Harvard University.
  