
    
  Says only Ron Paul argues that "the real solutions to our problems will not be found in the halls of government, but rather with 'We The People.'"

BATON ROUGE, Louisiana — 2012 Republican Presidential candidate Ron Paul was endorsed today by Louisiana Republican State Central Committeeman Harold Williams of Baton Rouge. Mr. Williams also is the former Chairman of the East Baton Rouge Parish Republican Party, an area of about 440,000 Bayou State residents.
In publicly endorsing Ron Paul, Mr. Williams issued the following statement:
"I support Ron Paul because of his bold stance against overreaching government bureaucracies and his loyal opposition against unnecessary taxes. Like Ron Paul, I too believe that every American is entitled to the fruits of their labor.
"We need regulatory relief, real spending cuts and a balanced budget. I am often reminded of quote from Dr. Benjamin E. Mays, 'Every man and woman is born into the world to do something unique and something distinctive and if he or she does not do it, it will never be done.'
"Ron Paul is the only candidate that is effectively articulating that the real solutions to our problems will not be found in the halls of government, but rather with 'We The People.'"
Harold Williams has been involved in leadership roles for many years, responsible for advocacy and consensus building within numerous civic organizations. In addition, Mr. Williams became the first African American since Reconstruction to serve in the position of Chairman of the Republican Party of East Baton Rouge Parish.
Harold has over 11 years of experience as a successful entrepreneur directing fiscal operations, supervising 16 employees, marketing company services, negotiating contracts, and profitably resolving problems to ensure repeat business and satisfied customers. He also has managed the daily operations of a petroleum management firm engaged in national and international planning and development.
This announcement has been preceded by earlier declarations of support by Louisiana State Rep. Joel Robideaux and former state GOP Deputy Chair Charlie Davis.
Providing a strong boost to Ron Paul's Louisiana state organization, such endorsements present Ron Paul as the conservative alternative to Mitt Romney. They also demonstrate that the 12-term Congressman from Texas has the only campaign organization capable of maintaining a 50-state competition with the moderate-establishment Romney.
  