
    President George W. Bush today announced his nomination of eight individuals, his designation of one individual and his intention to appoint one individual to serve in his administration.
The President has nominated Ronald Henderson of Missouri, to be United States Marshal for the Eastern District of Missouri. Mr. Henderson was with the St. Louis Metropolitan Police Department from 1978 to 2001, working through the ranks to the position of Chief of Police. From 1978 to 1982, he also worked as a part-time Sergeant for the Bi-state Development Agency.
The President has nominated Charles M. Sheer to be United States Marshal for the Western District of Missouri. Sheer has served with the U.S. Secret Service since 1974, where he has been promoted through the ranks to Assistant Supervisory Agent-in-Charge. Before joining the Secret Service, he was a Police Officer with the Lima, Ohio, Police Department. Sheer received a bachelor's degree from Ohio University and a Master's degree from the University of Dayton.
The President has nominated Frank DeArmon Whitney of North Carolina, to be United States Attorney for the Eastern District of North Carolina. He is currently Counsel to Kilpatrick Stockton LLP of Charlotte, having worked as Assistant United States Attorney for the Western District of North Carolina from 1990 to 2001. Mr. Whitney was an associate with McKenna, Conner & Cuneo of Washington, DC from 1987 to 1990. He has a JD from the University of Carolina at Chapel Hill, and a BA from Wake Forest University.
The President has nominated Debra W. Yang of California, to be United States Attorney for the Central District of California. She was a Judge for the Los Angeles Municipal Court from 1997 to 2000, and an Assistant United States Attorney for the Central District of California from 1990 to 1997. Wang has a JD from Boston College and a BA from Pitzer College at the Claremont Colleges.
The President has nominated Paula A. DeSutter of Virginia, to be Assistant Secretary of State for Verification and Compliance. She is currently a Professional Staff Member for the United States Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, a position she has held since 1998. From 1995 to 1997, she was a Senior Visiting Research Fellow at the National Defense University, following a year as Special Assistant for Verification and Compliance at the U.S. Arms Control and Disarmament Agency from 1994 to 1995. She was the Chief of the Compliance and Implementation Division, and Chair of VCAWG, at the US Arms Control and Disarmament Agency from 1984 to 1993. DeSutter has an MS degree in National Security Strategy from the National War College, an MA in International Relations from the University of Southern California, an MA in Economics from the University of Nevada, and a BA in Political Science from the University of Nevada.
The President has nominated Bruce E. Kasold of Virginia, to be Judge of the United States Court of Appeals for Veterans Claims. He is currently Chief Counsel for the Secretary of the Senate and Senate Sergeant-at-Arms. Kasold has been the Director for the Pentagon Federal Credit Union since 1989, and was Chief Counsel for the United States Senate Committee on Rules and Administration from 1995 to 1998. From 1994 to 1995, he was an attorney for Holland & Knight, having previously been an attorney for the U.S. Army Judge Advocate General's Corp. He has an LLM from Georgetown University Law Center, a JD from the University of Florida, and a BS from the United States Military Academy.
The President has nominated Kathleen Marion Harrington to be Assistant Secretary of Labor of Public Affairs. Most recently, Harrington was Senior Vice President of Health Insurers of America. She served as Assistant Secretary of Labor for Congressional and Intergovernmental Affairs from 1989 to 1991, and she was Assistant Administrator for Public Affairs of the Federal Aviation Administration from 1988 to 1989. Harrington received a bachelor's degree from Colgate University and a Master's degree from Catholic University.
The President has nominated Stanley C. Suboleski of Virginia, to be a Member of the Federal Mine Health and Safety Review Commission for the remainder of a six-year term expiring 8/30/06.
The President intends to appoint Sandra S. Brock of Maryland to be a Member of the Advisory Board of the National Air and Space Museum.
The President has designated R.L. Brownlee to be Acting Secretary of the Army for Civil Works. Brownlee presently serves as Under Secretary of the Army.
  