
    The following list does not include promotions of members of the Uniformed Services, nominations to the Service Academies, or nominations of Foreign Service officers.
Submitted March 18
Christopher Robert Hill, of Rhode Island, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia.
Dane Farnsworth Smith, Jr., of New Mexico, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Senegal.
George F. Ward, Jr., of Virginia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Namibia.
Sharon P. Wilkinson, of New York, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Burkina Faso.
Submitted March 20
Ginger Ehn Lew, of California, to be Deputy Administrator of the Small Business Administration, vice Cassandra M. Pulley, resigned.
Gina McDonald, of Kansas, to be a member of the National Council on Disability for a term expiring September 17, 1998, vice Larry Brown, Jr., term expired.
Submitted March 21
Kenneth C. Brill, of California, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Cyprus.
Genta Hawkins Holmes, of California, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Australia.
Thomas C. Hubbard, of Tennessee, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of the Philippines and to serve concurrently and without additional compensation as Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Palau.
Day Olin Mount, of Virginia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Iceland.
Glen Robert Rase, of Florida, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Brunei Darussalam.
Calvin D. Buchanan, of Mississippi, to be U.S. Attorney for the Northern District of Mississippi for a term of 4 years, vice Robert Q. Whitwell, resigned.
  