
    The President today announced his intention to appoint the following individuals to be members of the National Commission for Employment Policy. These are new positions.
Walton E. Burdick is vice president of IBM for personnel. He is a member of the Business Roundtable, Employee Relations Committee and Planning Committee, and the board of trustees of the National Institute for Work and Learning. He graduated from Cornell University (B.S.). He is married, has five children, and resides in Mt. Kisco, NY. He was born May 16, 1932, in Scranton, PA.
Peter W. Dauterive is president and chief executive officer of Founders Savings & Loan Association in Los Angeles, CA. He has served as a director of the California Savings and Loan League and as director and president of the American Savings and Loan League. He graduated from the University of Southern California (B.A.). He was born February 2, 1919, in Olivia, LA, and now resides in Los Angeles, CA.
Juan Rangel is president and chief executive officer of Medcenter Bank National Association in San Antonio, TX. He is a director and vice president of the Laredo Health Facilities Corp. and the Laredo Development Foundation. He is married, has three children, and resides in Laredo, TX. He was born May 23, 1948, in Castroville, TX.
John Alexander Rocco is an assemblyman (district 6) for the State of New Jersey aloft serves as a member of the Assembly Education Committee and the Joint Committee on Public Schools. Since 1970 he has also been serving as an associate professor of education at Rider College. He graduated from West Chester State .College (B.A.), Villanova University (M.A.), and Rutgers University (Ed.D.). He is married, has two children, and resides in Cherry Hill, NJ. He was born June 25, 1936, in Philadelphia, PA.
Max L. Rowe is an attorney with the firm of Kirkland & Ellis in Chicago, IL. He served as chairman of the advisory board, Department of Personnel, State of Illinois, and was a member of the Small Business Administration National Advisory Council. He graduated from the University of Illinois (A.B., J.D.). He is married, has four children, and resides in Wilmette, IL. He was born August 14, 1921, in Dallas City, IL.
Paula V. Smith is director of the Department of Labor and Industrial Relations in Jefferson City, MO. She also serves on the Missouri Job Training Coordinating Council and is a trustee of the Missouri Council on Economic Education. She is married, has three children, and resides in St. Louis, MO. She was born July 4, 1933, in Memphis, TN.
  