
    Today, President Donald J. Trump signed the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) Transition Authorization Act of 2017, the first comprehensive NASA authorization passed by Congress in more than six years. The bill demonstrates strong bipartisan support for our Nation's space program and helps ensure that NASA remains at the forefront of exploration and discovery.
"With this legislation, we support NASA's scientists, engineers, astronauts and their pursuit of discovery," said President Trump during a signing ceremony at the White House. "America's space program has been a blessing to our people and to the entire world. Almost half a century ago, our brave astronauts first planted the American flag on the moon. That was a big moment in our history. Now this nation is ready to be the first in space once again. Today we're taking the initial steps toward a bold and brave new future for American space flight."
The Act, passed unanimously by Congress, authorizes the development and execution of a long-range plan for deep space human exploration; invests in robust science, technology and aeronautics portfolios; and endorses the Agency's successful efforts to nurture a new commercial market that will boost our economy and create more jobs. Additionally, it guarantees vastly improved health care for the heroes who risk their lives in the exploration of space.
Attendees of the White House signing ceremony with the President included:

Vice President Mike Pence
Acting NASA Administrator Robert Lightfoot
Acting NASA Deputy Administrator Lesa B. Roe
NASA Chief of the Astronaut Office Christopher Cassidy
NASA Astronaut Tracy Dyson
Sen. Ted Cruz, Sponsor of S.442
Sen. Bill Nelson, Cosponsor of S.442
Sen. Marco Rubio, Cosponsor of S.442
Sen. Luther Strange
Rep. Kevin McCarthy, House Majority Leader
Rep. Lamar Smith, Chairman of House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology
Rep. Frank Lucas, Vice Chair of House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology
Rep. Robert Aderholt
Rep. Brian Babin
Rep. Jim Bridenstine
Rep. Mo Brooks
Rep. John Culberson
Rep. Neal Dunn
Rep. Steve Palazzo
Rep. Bill Posey
Rep. Martha Roby

Acting Administrator Lightfoot added, "NASA would like to thank President Trump for his unwavering support of the Agency and express our gratitude to a bipartisan Congress for its thoughtful consideration of NASA's future. We are grateful for the longstanding support and trust of the American people. NASA stands ready to meet the challenge of pioneering new frontiers in space."
The Authorization Act signed today and the President's proposed $19.1 billion budget announced last week provide a powerful framework for NASA and a roadmap for this Nation's future in space. These steps reaffirm that NASA should remain a multi-mission agency with a balanced set of core missions in science, space technology, aeronautics, human space flight and exploration, and work to inspire the next generation of explorers.
  