
    Pool Reports by Shira Stein, San Francisco Chronicle 



Sent:
Reports:




March 28, 2023 09:45

In-town pool report #1: Breakfast lid until 11
Good morning all, checking in as your in-town pooler for the day! POTUS is headed for a day event to North Carolina to talk about domestic manufacturing. In-town pool call time was 10am, breakfast lid until 11am.
9:30 AM THE PRESIDENT receives the President's Daily Briefing Closed Press
10:00 AM  In-Town Pool Call Time
10:30 AM  Out-of-Town Pool Call Time  Joint Base Andrews Visitor Center Overhang
11:25 AM THE PRESIDENT departs the White House en route to Joint Base Andrews  South Lawn Open Press (Gather 11:15 AM – Palm Room Doors)
11:45 AM THE PRESIDENT departs Joint Base Andrews en route to Morrisville, North Carolina  Joint Base Andrews Out-of-Town Pool 
12:45 PM THE PRESIDENT arrives in Morrisville, North Carolina Raleigh-Durham International Airport, Morrisville, North Carolina Open Press
1:25 PM  THE PRESIDENT tours Wolfspeed, a semiconductor manufacturer Wolfspeed, Inc., Durham, North Carolina Out-of-Town Pool
2:30 PM THE PRESIDENT discusses how his Investing in America agenda has led to the strongest job growth in history, hundreds of billions of dollars in major private sector investments nationwide, stronger infrastructure, and a Made in America manufacturing boom that is strengthening supply chains and national security Wolfspeed, Inc., Durham, North Carolina Open Press 
3:50 PM THE PRESIDENT departs Morrisville, North Carolina en route to Joint Base Andrews Raleigh-Durham International Airport, Morrisville, North Carolina  Out-of-Town Pool
4:55 PM THE PRESIDENT departs Joint Base Andrews en route to the White House Joint Base Andrews  Out-of-Town Pool
5:05 PM THE PRESIDENT arrives at the White House South Lawn  Open Press (Gather 4:55 PM – Palm Room Doors)
Briefing Schedule
Principal Deputy Press Secretary Olivia Dalton will gaggle aboard Air Force Oneen route to Morrisville, North Carolina


March 28, 2023 11:39

In-town pool report #2: gather now
For departure 


March 28, 2023 11:58

In-town pool #3: Assault weapons ban Qs
POTUS took questions on an assault weapons ban.
"I have gone the full extent of my executive authority, on my own. I think it's about time."
"The Congress has to act. The majority of the American people want an assault weapons ban
"I can't do anything except plead with congress to act."
Asked about going to Nashville: "I've spoken to all of them. What I don't want to do is" something about inserting himself
Check for exact quotes
Marine One took off from the South Lawn at 11:52am.
Handing off to travel pool.


March 28, 2023 11:58

In-town pool report #4: Traveling with POTUS
Per WH:
Traveling with the President aboard Marine One en route to Joint Base Andrews:
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff Natalie Quillian, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff Emmy Ruiz, Assistant to the President & Director of Political Strategy & Outreach Sheila Grant, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Presidential Speechwriter 


March 28, 2023 17:20

In-town pool report #5: gathering now
[APP Note: No additional text was included in this report.]


March 28, 2023 17:39

In-town pool report #6: POTUS landed back at WH
Marine One landed on the South Lawn at 5:29pm.
POTUS took questions and went inside.
On the banking crisis
"More was coming"
what is it?
Under control, more to come
On report that Russia is sending tactical nuclear weapons to Belarus?
Hadn't seen it "Of course" I'm concerned
"A dangerous kind of talk, it's worrisome"
Check transcript, it was especially hard to hear him 


March 28, 2023 17:41

In-town pool report #7: lid
And that's a lid! Reminder to please check transcripts for exactly what POTUS said during the two gaggles on the SL.
(There were some questions about targeting Christians at the Nashville shooting "I have no idea" but I didn't hear it all.) 


March 28, 2023 17:51

In-town pool #8: more quotes
Is Israel at an inflection point?
"Well, I don't know that they're at an infection point but I think it's a difficult spot to be in and they've got to figure it out."
Prime minister? "Hope he walks away from it" (not 100% sure)
Russia/Belarus "They haven't done that yet, unless something happened while I was on the plane."
Big thanks to foreign and tv poolers for their help 




Pool Reports below by Michael A. Wilner, McClatchy 



Sent:
Reports:




March 28, 2023 12:06

Out-of-town pool report #1 — JBA
Good afternoon from Joint Base Andrews. POTUS is traveling to North Carolina to visit a semiconductor manufacturing facility. He'll take a tour and give remarks before returning home.
POTUS emerged from Marine One at 12:04 pm ET and promptly boarded Air Force One. Colonel Matthew Jones, Commander, 89th Airlift Wing, greeted the president.
We're headed to Raleigh-Durham International Airport. Wheels up shortly. 


March 28, 2023 13:25

Out-of-town pool report #2 — Arrival in Raleigh-Durham
AF1 touched down at 1:06 pm ET. Olivia Dalton gaggled with the travel pool about halfway through the flight.
POTUS deplaned at 1:20 pm ET, waving to local media gathered at the airport and shaking hands with greeters.
Greeting the president at the airport, per White House:
Governor Roy Cooper, North Carolina Mayor Elaine O'Neal, Durham, North Carolina Chair Brenda Howerton, Durham County
POTUS entered the Beast at 1:24 pm ET. Your pool has boarded vans and is motorcading with the president to the Wolfspeed facility.
Also passing along a list of individuals who traveled with POTUS to Raleigh-Durham, per White House:
Secretary Gina Raimondo, Department of Commerce Rep. Valeria Foushee (NC-04) Rep. Wiley Nickel (NC-13) Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff Natalie Quillian, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff Emmy Ruiz, Assistant to the President & Director of Political Strategy & Outreach Olivia Dalton, Deputy Assistant to the President & Principal Deputy Press Secretary Ashley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director for Oval Office Operations Ryan Harper, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff Alicia Molt-West, Special Assistant to the President & House Legislative Affairs Liaison Travis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director Sheila Grant, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Presidential Speechwriter Ronnie Chatterji, Special Advisor for CHIPS Implementation Rachel Thomas, Senior Communications Advisor 


March 28, 2023 13:43

Out-of-town pool report #3 — Arrival at Wolfspeed
The president's motorcade pulled in to Wolfspeed headquarters at 1:40 pm. Bunting flags are draped over the facility, and a crowd has assembled outdoors for the president's remarks.
Your pool was ushered to a tour site. We're awaiting POTUS.
From the White House, a list of individuals who traveled with POTUS in the motorcade:
Governor Roy Cooper, North Carolina Secretary Gina Raimondo, Department of Commerce Rep. Valeria Foushee (NC-04) Rep. Wiley Nickel (NC-13) Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff Natalie Quillian, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff Emmy Ruiz, Assistant to the President & Director of Political Strategy & Outreach Mayor Elaine O'Neal, Durham, North Carolina Olivia Dalton, Deputy Assistant to the President & Principal Deputy Press Secretary  Ashley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director for Oval Office Operations Ryan Harper, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff Alicia Molt-West, Special Assistant to the President & House Legislative Affairs Liaison Travis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director Sheila Grant, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Presidential Speechwriter Ronnie Chatterji, Special Advisor for CHIPS Implementation Rachel Thomas, Senior Communications Advisor Chair Brenda Howerton, Durham County 


March 28, 2023 13:58

Out-of-town pool report #4 — Tour of Wolfspeed
POTUS entered Wolfspeed's Power Applications Lab at 1:51 pm ET with Sec. Raimondo and Gov. Cooper. The president is surrounded by Wolfspeed's silicon carbide products adorning blue shelves.
POTUS handled a product that is used in electric vehicles, and joked that he was disappointed he wouldn't be getting in a car today.
"We used to invest as a nation 2% every year in research and development," POTUS said, praising a recent search in private investments.
Pool was ushered out as the tour continued at 1:56 pm ET. We're headed to a second tour location.
The White House sends along background:
The President is touring the Power Applications Lab at Wolfspeed, where semiconductor materials, including silicon carbide wafers, are manufactured. He will also meet with union workers during the tour and discuss how his Investing in America agenda is creating good-paying jobs in North Carolina and across the country.
Participants at Tour Stop #1
Governor Roy Cooper, North Carolina Secretary Gina Raimondo, Department of Commerce Rep. Valeria Foushee (NC-04) Gregg Lowe, CEO of Wolfspeed Elif Balkas, CTO of Wolfspeed  Julius Rice, Engineer at Wolfspeed  Other Wolfspeed employees
Participants at Tour Stop #2 Alvin Warwick, Business Manager of Local Union 342 IBEW  Building Trades Union Members
Also from the White House, the president was greeted upon arrival at Wolfspeed by:
Governor Roy Cooper, North Carolina Secretary Gina Raimondo, Department of Commerce Rep. Valeria Foushee (NC-04) Gregg Lowe, CEO of Wolfspeed 


March 28, 2023 14:11

Out-of-town pool report #5 — Tour of Wolfspeed, cont'd
The president came to a second tour site, this time outdoors, at 2:05 pm ET, standing in front of a Caterpillar excavator.
POTUS greeted IBEW union workers, who thanked the president for their support. The president touted the number of manufacturing jobs created in his first two years in office.
Your pool was ushered out just moments into the tour, at 2:07 pm ET, and is moving to the site of POTUS' upcoming remarks. 


March 28, 2023 14:49

Out-of-town pool report #6 — POTUS remarks begin
POTUS came on stage at 2:49 pm ET. You can follow his remarks live at whitehouse.gov.
Background from the White House:
In attendance for the President's remarks on his Investing in America agenda and how it has led to the strongest job growth in history, hundreds of billions of dollars in major private sector investments nationwide, stronger infrastructure, and a Made in America manufacturing boom that is strengthening supply chains and national security:
Governor Roy Cooper, North Carolina Secretary Gina Raimondo, Department of Commerce Rep. Valeria Foushee (NC-04) Rep. Wiley Nickel (NC-13) Mayor Elaine O'Neal, Durham, North Carolina Gregg A. Lowe, CEO of Wolfspeed  Jake Ditzenberger, Union Ironworker with Local 848 State and local elected officials and community leaders Union members
Pre-Program Gregg A. Lowe, CEO of Wolfspeed  Mayor Elaine O'Neal, Durham, North Carolina Rep. Valeria Foushee (NC-04) Secretary Gina Raimondo, Department of Commerce Governor Roy Cooper, North Carolina
Speaking Program Jake Ditzenberger, Union Ironworker with Local 848 The President
Participating in a photoline with the President prior to his speech at Wolfspeed, per White House:
Governor Roy Cooper, North Carolina Secretary Gina Raimondo, Department of Commerce Rep. Valeria Foushee (NC-04) Rep. Wiley Nickel (NC-13) Mayor Elaine O'Neal, Durham, North Carolina Secretary of State Elaine Marshall, North Carolina Department of the Secretary of State Secretary Machelle Baker Sanders, North Carolina Department of Commerce Chief Deputy Secretary Jordan Whichard, North Carolina Department of Commerce  Chair Brenda Howerton, Durham County Gregg A. Lowe, CEO of Wolfspeed  Jake Ditzenberger, Union Ironworker with Local 848 Union leaders, representatives, and members 


March 28, 2023 15:13

Out-of-town pool report #7 — POTUS remarks conclude
The president wrapped up his remarks at 3:12 pm ET. Pool is holding. 


March 28, 2023 15:56

Out-of-town pool report #8 — Motorcade
Your pool boarded vans at 3:35 pm ET and joined the motorcade at 3:55 pm ET. We're rolling. 


March 28, 2023 16:25

Out-of-town pool report #9 — POTUS speaks; Departure from Raleigh-Durham
POTUS' motorcade pulled in to Raleigh-Durham International at 4:04 pm ET. The president emerged from the Beast at 4:12 pm ET and took several questions. Your pooler struggled to hear the president much at all; please refer to the transcript for direct quotes.
He said he was hopeful that Israeli politicians could find a compromise on judicial reform and said the United States did not want to interfere in domestic Israeli politics. He said Netanyahu would not come in the near-term.
He's trying to arrange a trip to Mississippi in the near future.
He repeated his call for an assault weapons ban.
On the banking crisis, he said he's done what is possible to address the matter with available authorities but that it's not over yet.
On Haiti, he said he fears a loss of life if mass migration takes place.
He boarded AF1 at 4:19 pm ET. We're wheels up shortly for JBA. 


March 28, 2023 17:18

Out-of-town pool report #10 — Nashville calls; Arrival at JBA
The White House passes along the following:
Today, President Biden separately spoke with Nashville Police Chief John Drake, and Metro Police Officers Michael Collazo and Rex Engelbert to thank them for their bravery and quick response to the shooting yesterday at the Covenant School.
Air Force One landed at JBA at 5:09 pm ET. POTUS deplaned af 5:13 pm ET and boarded Marine One a minute later. He's off to the White House as of 5:17 pm ET; handing over to the in-town pool.
Your pooler apologizes that even his audio of the gaggle with POTUS in North Carolina failed to pick up his voice, so please refer to the pending transcript for quotes.
And finally, the following individuals traveled with POTUS aboard AF1, per White House:
Rep. Valeria Foushee (NC-04) Rep. Wiley Nickel (NC-13) Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff Natalie Quillian, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff Emmy Ruiz, Assistant to the President & Director of Political Strategy & Outreach Olivia Dalton, Deputy Assistant to the President & Principal Deputy Press Secretary Ashley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director for Oval Office Operations Ryan Harper, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff Alicia Molt-West, Special Assistant to the President & House Legislative Affairs Liaison Travis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director Sheila Grant, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Presidential Speechwriter Ronnie Chatterji, Special Advisor for CHIPS Implementation Rachel Thomas, Senior Communications Advisor
Have a good evening. 



  