
    Pool Reports by Francesca Chambers, McClatchy



Sent:
Reports:




March 12, 202011:04 

Pool report #1 --- Trump and Varadkar
Pool led into the Oval at 11 am sharp
POTUS opened with coronavirus. He says France and Germany are now having problems.
In Italy "probably record setting" problems.
On Europe: "We think we'll reestablish pretty quickly once this ends."
Reminded people to wash their hands.
More TK.



March 12, 202011:13 

# 2 still talking about coronavirus
On European leaders not consulted: "We had to make a decision, and we didn't want to take time." 
Rallies: says he has a big event in Tampa that was all sold out....
"32s a lot. 32s too many."
National emergency: says he has Stafford Act practically memorized.
Says he is deciding right now on what emergency steps he'll take to help American workers. Pushed for a payroll tax cut again while noting it will take some time.
"We have offered Iran assistance." 
Note: This is coming fast and it's still going. Please check transcript and tape for all that was said.



March 12, 202011:31 

Pool report #3 more oval
On the virus: "This is a very fast spreader."
Says he "isn't concerned" about reports out of Brazil about possible coronavirus case.
On Olympics: he said if Japan cancels make it a year later.
Talked about how he didnt have to shake hands in India, because that's not how it's done there. But he said today he wondered, "Are we supposed to shake hands?" "It's a very strange feeling."
Varadkar said it feels "rude" but it's appropriate now.
Trump talked about 2020 presidential and Biden an old Warren.
Both Mulvaney, the new special envoy to Northern Ireland, and Meadows were there seated side by side. Meadows did not answer a question about whether it's his first day.
Pool was led out at 11:27 am.
Get near a TV -- this went on for nearly half an hour.



March 12, 202011:49 

Pool Report #4 - Varadkar is leaving soon -- come outside if you want to see him
Hi,
Word is that Varadkar will make a press statement at the stix on his way out of the West Wing. So please come outside if you'd like to hear from him. This is open press.



March 12, 202012:02 

Pool report #5: Video of the Oval
Hi,
For the folks reaching out for specific quotes: here's a video of the meeting on CSPAN that I recommend you watch and pull from. And as always, please check whatever I sent/send against the transcript.
https://www.c-span.org/video/?470295-1/president-trump-defends-travel-ba... 



March 12, 202012:18 

Pool Report #6: no Varadkar statement
Just before Varadkar came out, service informed us that he would not be making a statement after all.
At approximately 12:14 his motorcade pulled away from the West Wing entrance. Pooler couldn't see the doorway to see if the president walked him out.



March 12, 202012:38 

Pool report #7: lunch lid until 1:30 pm
At 12:35 pm the White House called a lunch lid until 1:30 pm EDT.



March 12, 2020
[APP Note: Report #8 does not exist or was not received by the APP.]


March 12, 202013:08 

Pool report #9 -- POTUS took a question at Varadkar arrival
The pool was not at Varadkar's arrival at the White House via the West Wing entrance. We were pre positioned along the colonnade as it typical when a foreign leader approaches from the north.
Video of the arrival shows that the president took a shouted question on the markets
"The market's going to be just fine. Just fine. Thank you," he said.
He didn't respond to a follow up on why he believes that.
*The report will fuller quotes from the Oval Office spray should have been marked #8 -- when I started on it was #6 but the order in which it sent put it at #8.*



March 12, 202013:49 

Pool Report #10 -- statement from Grisham on Bolsonaro aide
From Stephanie Grisham:
"The White House is aware of public reports that a member of the Brazilian delegation's visit to Mar-a-Lago last weekend tested positive for COVID-19; confirmatory testing is pending. Exposures from the case are being assessed, which will dictate next steps. Both the President and Vice President had almost no interactions with the individual who tested positive and do not require being tested at this time.
"As stated before, the White House Medical Unit and the United States Secret Service has been working closely with various agencies to ensure every precaution is taken to keep the First & Second Families, and all White House staff healthy.
"To reiterate CDC guidelines, there is currently no indication to test patients without symptoms, and only people with prolonged close exposure to confirmed positive cases should self-quarantine.
"We are monitoring the situation closely and will update everyone as we get more information."



March 12, 202017:17 

Pool Report #11: Travel/photo lid
At 5:15 PM EDT the White House called a travel/photo lid.
Good night, and good luck, everyone.



March 12, 202020:01 

Pool Report #12: Trudeau call
Judd Deere passes along the following statement:
"Today, President Donald J. Trump spoke with Prime Minister Justin Trudeau of Canada. The two leaders discussed developments related to the coronavirus pandemic and their efforts to combat the virus. The leaders also discussed other important bilateral issues, including telecommunications."




Pool Reports by Alexandra von Nahmen, DW Deutsche Welle



Sent:
Reports:




March 12, 202012:02 

foreign pool report #1 Oval Office
During the pool spray in the Oval Office, Prime Minister Leo Varadkar of Ireland thanked President Trump for having the Irish delegation at the White House. This visit is "an opportunity to show how close Ireland and America are," he said. He then continued, talking about the coronavirus - "the big concern Ireland and Europe" has at the moment. "We have acted just as you have acted decisively in the last couple of days. We have restrictions on travel for example from Italy for a few days already, but as of tomorrow schools will close." He added: " We are banning all indoor galleries of more than 100 people ... and we're particularly trying to protect older people and people with chronic diseases."
PM Varadkar then added: "But as you know, it's a virus that's gotten pandemic. It's all over the world, knows no borders, no nationalities, and I think we all need to work together in the world on this. And America, the richest country in the world, has great scientists, great companies, universities, we need them working on treatments, working on tests and on the vaccine."
Asked whether Ireland would be excluded from the travel ban on the European Union, President Trump said: "We will be discussing that. We'll be discussing some of the moves that we're going to be making." Prime Minister Varadkar weighed in on the topic saying: "One of the thing we have in Ireland is CBP - American Security - and I went through myself yesterday."
Please as always check against official transcript.




  