
    Pool Reports by Jonathan Salant, NJ Advance Media



Sent:
Reports:




March 3, 202013:50 

Supplemental Pool Report 1
We are gathering now for the Marine One departure.



March 3, 202014:08 

Supplemental pool report 2
The president took questions. He said he was working well with Congress, that the U.S. response was going very well. More to come.



March 3, 202014:13 

WH supplemental pool report 3
Spoke to leadefof Taliban. "We don't want violence. We will see what happens."
"The Democratic establishment is trying to take it away from Bernie."
Sanders or Biden: "Whoever is it idon't care."
Not looking at restricting domestic travel. "There is only one hot spot."
Looking at Italy and Japan, though.
NCAA letvthem dimora wgatctheybwabt to din



March 3, 202014:15 

Supplemental pool report 4
President stopped talking, boarded Marine One and lifted off at 2:14.
Will try to transcribe quotes later. He answered some out of earshot of pooler.



March 3, 202014:40 

supplemental pool report 5
It was hard to hear the questions. Here's what the president said. As always, check against transcript.
Coronavirus: "Things are going very well. It's been very strong. Mike Pence and the entire group are doing an excellent job."
"Anything can happen. We've done a good job and combatting it so early. We have the best people in the world. We're getting a lot of credit for having made that early move."
We're working along well with Congress to get the various funding we're looking for. Some countries have some very big problems. We're working with them to help them."
"We're working with other countries. That's very important."
I think this refers to cancelling the Olympics in Tokyo but I couldn't hear the question: "I think I'm going to leave that to Prime Minister Abe. He's a friend of mine. He's built a beautiful venue. It's a very sad thing if that would happen because the venue's incredible. They've spent billions of dollars. But I'll leave that up to Japan."
Fed - "The rate is too high. It should be eased down so we're competitive. We have the greatest country in the world, we have the strongest country in the world, it's our dollar that the world relies on. We should have the low rate. But we have a Fed that doesn't agree with that. I disagree with them"
Taliban - I spoke to the leader of the Taliban today. We had a good conversation. We've agreed there's no violence, we don't want violence, we'll see what happens. They're dealing with Afghanistan but we'll see what happens. We had actually a very good talk."
more to come



March 3, 202014:56 

Supplemental pool report 6
more from the president. Also the earlier question was about the Olympics.
Democrats -- "I think there's no question the establishment -- the Democrat establishment -- is trying to take it away from Bernie Sanders. There's no question about that in my mind."
"I would have said two, three days ago Biden wasn't looking too good. Now he's looking better."
health insurance to cover patients with coronavirus: "We're looking at that whole situation. There are many people without insurance."
Democratic nominee -- "Whoever it is, I don't care. I really don't care. Whoever it is, we will take them on. The job we've done, we've rebuilt the military, we have the strongest economy we've ever had, all of the things we've done, I will take on anybody."
travel bans due to coronavirus: "We're now looking at other countries that have been badly affected and we're thinking about doing something we may have to do. We don't want to do that but we're looking at other countries and we're being very stringent."
not looking at domestic travel restrictions. "There's only one hot spot."
more on virus: "We're doing a fantastic job. The professionals are doing a great job. We're really happy with the job they're doing."
"They have been just ahead of it and we have been ahead of it by having stopped so much earlier. Nobody wanted us to cut off access to our country and I did it early. By doing that, that was a big step. Otherwise, many more people would be affected."
NCAA contingency plans for basketball tournament, perhaps with empty venues: That's a tough move. No, I'm not prepared for that. But let them do what they want to do." "I dont think it would be necessary."
Mentioned Italy, South Korea, Japan, as countries U.S. is watching closely on coronavirus. "We'll make the right determination at the right time. We've cut if off, as you know, with numerous other countries."



March 3, 202015:43 

Supplemental report 7
Back outside waiting for the president to return via helicopter.



March 3, 202015:53 

Supplemental report 8
Marine One landed at 3:48 pm. The president, who spoke to reporters twice today, made it a trifecta.
"We just got back. A lot of progress."



March 3, 202016:00 

Supplemental pool report 9
President endorsed payroll tax cut if Democrats go along. "I would do it if they can approve it."
On travel: "We have a lot if great places we can travel to within the United States."
The president then left.
More to come.



March 3, 202016:29 

Supplemental report 9
The president was joined by HHS Secretary Alex Azar and Dr. Anthony Fauci, head of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases.
Check against transcript.
Azar: Within three days, had potential vaccine. Yesterday, FDA authorized phase 1 safety clinical trials for the vaccine.
Fauci: "Very soon, we'll be sticking the first person with the vaccine." That's only the first stage of the development of the vaccine." "Safety is very important and you really need to know that it actually works." The whole process is going to take a 1, 1 1/2 years
Then testing therapy. With therapy, you give it to people who are already ill. "Within a reasonable period of time, you're going to know if it works or not."
two trials in China. doing trials in the U.S. also. It takes months to accumulate enough patients to see if it works. "If the drug works and you prove it works, you will treat them."
Azar: 60 confirmed cases in U.S., plus 48 infected people who came from repatriation activities.
Trump on stock market drop: "I haven't seen it. I'm focused on this. The country's in great shape, the market's in great shape."
Trump on vacationing: "If they don't travel, if they stay here, that's not a bad thing for us. Ive been saying for a long time people should do that."
Trump on the Fed: "They should do more. They hinted that they're not going to do much more and that's unfortunate. He gave a very bad signal in my opinion."
That should be all from this end.




 
Pool Reports below by Christian Datoc, The Daily Caller



Sent:
Reports:




March 3, 202010:38 

In-town pool report #1
Good morning on an overcast Super Tuesday. Pool gathered at 10:27 am and is preparing to head to Washington Hilton for President Trump's remarks at the National Association of Counties Legislative Conference. No sign of POTUS yet, and hopefully we load up before the rain arrives.



March 3, 202011:18 

In-town pool report #2 — motorcade rolling
And we're off. Pool loaded up just before the rain rolled through, POTUS and officials jumped into the the motorcade at 11:13 am, and we pulled through the gates at 11:14 am.



March 3, 202011:24 

In-town pool report #3 — speech at National Association of Counties Legislative Conference
We arrived at the Hilton at 11:18 am. Pool was ushered into the International Ballroom East. David Bowie's "Space Oddity" played and was followed by Tom Petty's "I Won't Back Down." 
POTUS was set to speak at 11:00 am for 45 minutes. We are waiting for him to take the stage, and I will send along quotes and color.



March 3, 202011:38 
In-town pool report #4 — NACO attendee list
The following individuals were expected to attend Tuesday's conference:
The White HousePresident Donald J. TrumpDoug Hoelscher, Deputy Assistant to the President & Director, Intergovernmental Affairs (IGA)William Crozer, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director, Intergovernmental Affairs (IGA)
Trump AdministrationDr. Robert Redfield, Director, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
External ParticipantsMatthew Chase, CEO & Executive Director, National Association of Counties (NACo)Mary Ann Borgeson, County Commissioner, Douglas County, Nebraska & President, NACoGary Moore, Judge/Executive, Boone County, Kentucky & 1st Vice President, NACoLarry Johnson, County Commissioner, DeKalb County, Georgia & 2nd Vice President, NACoGreg Cox, County Supervisor, San Diego County, California & Immed. Past President, NACoJoe Briggs, County Commissioner, Cascade County, Montana & Western Region Representative, NACoCindy Bobbitt, County Commissioner, Grant County, Oklahoma & Central Region Representative, NACoChristian Leinbach, County Commissioner, Berks County, Pennsylvania & Northeast Region Representative, NACoRay Jeffers, County Commissioner, Person County, North Carolina & South Region Representative, NACoKathryn Starkey, County Commissioner, Pasco County, FloridaRebecca Long, County Commissioner, Lea County, New Mexico



March 3, 202011:58 

In-town pool report #5 — NACO background
Today, President Donald J. Trump will deliver remarks to the 2020 Legislative Conference of the National Association of Counties (NACo), an organizationrepresenting 3,069 counties, nearly 40,000 elected county officials, and 3.6 million county employees who together serve more than 80% of the U.S. population.  The last President to address the NACo conference was President Clinton in 1996.
The President's remarks will include an update on his Administration's ongoing response to the coronavirus in coordination with State and local elected officials.  The President will also highlight the Administration's unprecedented bipartisan outreach to county officials since 2017 and outline his Administration's policies and priorities for transforming America's communities through innovative approaches to urban revitalization and rural prosperity.These policies and priorities include:·         Deregulation·         Mental health reform·         Criminal justice reform·         Disaster recovery and resilience·         Opportunity zones·         Rural connectivity·         Trade·         Workforce development



March 3, 202012:05 

In-town pool report #5 (correction) — NACO attendees and background
Issuing a correction on previous reports — split the attendees and background from White House. Included below in their entirety
Today, President Donald J. Trump will deliver remarks to the 2020 Legislative Conference of the National Association of Counties (NACo), an organizationrepresenting 3,069 counties, nearly 40,000 elected county officials, and 3.6 million county employees who together serve more than 80% of the U.S. population.  The last President to address the NACo conference was President Clinton in 1996.
The President's remarks will include an update on his Administration's ongoing response to the coronavirus in coordination with State and local elected officials.  The President will also highlight the Administration's unprecedented bipartisan outreach to county officials since 2017 and outline his Administration's policies and priorities for transforming America's communities through innovative approaches to urban revitalization and rural prosperity.
These policies and priorities include:·         Deregulation·         Mental health reform·         Criminal justice reform·         Disaster recovery and resilience·         Opportunity zones·         Rural connectivity·         Trade·         Workforce development
The following individuals are expected to attend:
The White HousePresident Donald J. TrumpDoug Hoelscher, Deputy Assistant to the President & Director, Intergovernmental Affairs (IGA)William Crozer, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director, Intergovernmental Affairs (IGA)
Trump AdministrationDr. Robert Redfield, Director, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
External ParticipantsMatthew Chase, CEO & Executive Director, National Association of Counties (NACo)Mary Ann Borgeson, County Commissioner, Douglas County, Nebraska & President, NACoGary Moore, Judge/Executive, Boone County, Kentucky & 1st Vice President, NACoLarry Johnson, County Commissioner, DeKalb County, Georgia & 2nd Vice President, NACoGreg Cox, County Supervisor, San Diego County, California & Immed. Past President, NACoJoe Briggs, County Commissioner, Cascade County, Montana & Western Region Representative, NACoCindy Bobbitt, County Commissioner, Grant County, Oklahoma & Central Region Representative, NACoChristian Leinbach, County Commissioner, Berks County, Pennsylvania & Northeast Region Representative, NACoRay Jeffers, County Commissioner, Person County, North Carolina & South Region Representative, NACoKathryn Starkey, County Commissioner, Pasco County, FloridaRebecca Long, County Commissioner, Lea County, New MexicoA bipartisan group of approximately 1,200 county leaders from across the Nation, a significant majority of whom have previously participated in one of 45 White House State Leadership Day events IGA organized from 2017-19.



March 3, 202012:05 

In-town pool report #6 — POTUS announces trip to areas hit by Tennessee tornado
POTUS took the stage at 11:28 am as God Bless The USA by Lee Greenwood played. 
He opened by "sending our love and our prayers" to the families of the 19 people killed by the tornado in Tennessee. 
He announced he will visit the area. More to come. 



March 3, 202012:18 

In-town pool report #7 — NACO speech (quotes and color)
POTUS took the stage at 11:28 am as God Bless The USA by Lee Greenwood played. 
He opened by "sending our love and our prayers" to the 19 people killed by the deadly tornado in Tennessee and announced an upcoming trip to the area. 
"My administration will always be your partner, friend, and resource," he told the room before touching on the Great American Comeback announced in February's SOTU address. 
"We cut regulations," earned thunderous applause. 
Trump highlighted the administration's efforts to combat the coronavirus threat. He noted that Amb. Deborah Birx's addition time to the task force would be monumental. 
On the budget, Trump joked about military spending.  He noted the U.S. has the best military equipment in the world, "all made in the U.S.A.," which again earned raucous applause. 
On the Fed Rate — "it puts us at a disadvantage" ... especially when it comes to "exporting our products..."
POTUS claimed that every single area "has seen their income rise" on his watch. 
When chants of "4 more years!" broke out during his speech, Trump quieted the room and quipped that this isn't a campaign "rally," earning more laughs from the crowd. 
"The fake news doesn't like talking about" the economic progress the Trump administration has heeded, POTUS told the crowd. 
President Trump highlighted the work his daughter Ivanka Trump has done to promote job training programs, especially at Walmart. 
The USMCA trade deal is "allowing us to reach an agreement" with China, Trump noted. POTUS  highlighted the $500 billion annual trade deficit China held over the US prior to him entering office. He also noted that China is working with the US to stop the flow of fentanyl into the country. 
Closing Everyone here is a "devoted" servant... "you love the nation like no one else"
"As long as I am president, the federal government is on your side 100 percent"
"You will always have a very important seat at the table, and you will always find an open door at the White House"
POTUS exited the stage at 12:14 pm. "You Can't Always Get What You Want" by The Rolling Stones played.  
Earlier in the speech, President Trump invited two attendees onto the stage to share testimonials of working with his administration to foster economic growth in their counties a — Rebecca Long, New Mexico— Kathryn Starkey, Florida



March 3, 202012:21 

In-town pool report #8 — rolling back to WH
Back in the vans and heading back to White House at 12:18 pm. Pool will be heading up to Walter Reed ahead of POTUS, so handing off to supplemental pooler for departure. 



March 3, 202014:31 

In-town pool report #9 — arrival at NIH
Marine One touched down at 2:24. POTUS and entourage entered the motorcade for short ride to NIH Vaccine Research Center, with pool cans in tow. More to come on round table discussion and tour of lab facility.



March 3, 202014:38 

In-town pool report #10 — readout of call with TN Gov. Bill Lee
Passing along from Deputy Press Secretary Judd Deere:
Today, President Donald J. Trump spoke by phone with Tennessee Governor Bill Lee regarding the effects of severe weather in Middle Tennessee. The President expressed his condolences for the lives lost and the families and communities impacted. The President underscored that the Federal Government will help the people of Tennessee respond to and recover from this tragic incident. The Governor told the President that Tennessee looks forward to having him in the State on Friday to tour some of the damage and offer support to Tennesseans.



March 3, 202015:09 

In-town pool report #11 -- NIH coronavirus roundtable comments
https://mcusercontent.com/c97630621baff8c44fe607661/_compresseds/25a02a2...



March 3, 202015:30 

In-town pool report #12 — tour of NIH vaccine laboratory facility
POTUS entered the laboratory facility just before 3:15 pm. He was briefed by NIH personnel on the process behind engineering a coronavirus vaccine, although your pooler was not close enough and lacked the scientific wherewithal to pick up the specifics of the testing/research process. Sorry. 
In layman's terms, the vaccine will block certain proteins in the virus in order to prevent infection, but the NIH is still in the research/trial phase. There is not yet a working vaccine. 
Dr. Fauci made note of the differences between a drug and a vaccine and how producing a vaccine involves a significantly longer process. 







March 3, 202015:33 

In-town pool report #13 — roundtable attendees
Passing along 
Today, President Donald J. Trump will participate in a roundtable briefing on his Administration's efforts to combat COVID-19.  Following the roundtable discussion, the President will tour the Viral Pathogenesis Laboratory (VPL), an operation that investigates viral diseases and advances the development of safe and effective vaccines.
The Dale and Betty Bumpers Vaccine Research Center (VRC) at the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID) of the National Institutes of Health (NIH), was established with the mission to conduct research that facilitates development of effective vaccines for human diseases.  The VRC has recently focused on HIV/AIDS, universal influenza, and emerging infectious diseases, such as Zika, Ebola, and, most recently, COVID-19. 
The President has made clear that his Administration's number one priority is, and remains, the safety of the American people.
The following individuals are expected to attend:
The White HousePresident Donald J. Trump Vice President Mike PenceMick Mulvaney, Acting White House Chief of Staff
Trump AdministrationSecretary Alex Azar, Department of Health and Human ServicesDr. Francis Collins, Director, National Institutes of Health (NIH)Dr. Lawrence Tabek, Principal Deputy Director, NIHDr. Anthony Fauci, Director, National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, NIHDr. John Mascola, Director, Vaccine Research Center, NIHDr. Barney Graham, Deputy Director, Vaccine Research Center, NIHDr. Kizzmekia Corbett, Senior Research Fellow and Scientific Lead for Coronavirus Vaccines and Immunopathogenesis Team in the Viral Pathogenesis Laboratory, Vaccine Research Center, National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, NIH



March 3, 202015:40 

In-town pool report #14 — Marine One wheels up
POTUS boarded Marine One and took off for the White House at 3:39 pm. Handing off the supplemental pool for wh arrival. See y'all at the 5:30 pm coronavirus task force briefing.



March 3, 202017:20 

In-town pool report #15 -- readout of call with President Abdel Fattah El-Sisi of Egypt
Passing along from Deputy Press Sec. Judd Deere
Today, President Donald J. Trump spoke with President Abdel Fattah El-Sisi of Egypt.  President Trump expressed hope that an agreement on the Grand Ethiopian Renaissance Dam would be finalized soon and benefit all parties involved.  The two leaders also discussed other important bilateral and regional issues. 



March 3, 202018:24 

In-town pool report #16 -- coronavirus task force briefing with VP
Vice President Mike Pence and the coronavirus task force entered Brady Briefing room at 5:58 pm, ahead of 6:00 pm rescheduled briefing time.
VP tells room that earlier today he briefed both Republican and Democrat Senate caucuses on the latest coronavirus details.
"Let me give you some topline numbers"-- 77 domestic cases-- Washington State confirmed 3 additional deaths today, 9 total domestic deaths-- 13 states PLUS NYC, 14 total jurisdictions dealing with confirmed cases
Pence spoke with IL and WA governors by phone earlier Tuesday.
Effective today, Pence announces new guidance from CDC that makes clear "any American can be tested" without questions. No longer restricted to symptomatic people.
Pence says kits capable of testng 1 million people will be shipped imminently, with a plan for 1 million people tested via kit next week
VP says task force will move all inspection resources at the state level to dealing with infectious disease
OMB will issue new guidance for employee travel. 
Reiterates comments from Dr. Anthony Fauci, that the overall threat coronavirus poses to U.S. citizens remains low. 
Task force will meet with airline CEOs on Wednesday.
"Tomorrow will be 1 week since the PResident asked me to lead the White House effort, and I couldn't be more proud" of the work task force, health agencies, and state governments have put in to fight coronavirus. "We're going to make sure that state agencies" have the resources necessary to deal with coronavirus. 
Pence says Americans do not need to worry about buying masks. "It is not necessary for the American people to buy masks."
HHS Secretary Alex AzarNotes CDC is "aggressively" deployed in Washington state and California. 
Azar held up POTUS' Q4 salary check, which he donated to HHS to fight coronavirus earlier on Tuesday.
Highlights vaccine Trump was briefed on at NIH Tuesday, says hopeful it will be in circulation in 5-6 weeks.
Amb. Deborah Birx"We know that the private sector will be critical" in terms of circulating testing kits.
Administrator Seema VernaCMS is reissuing guidance involving elder health care facilities 
CMS deployed 2 infectious control specialists to CDC in Atlanta in order to better coordinate policies in real time 
Will deploy inspectors to nursing home in Washington state where several deadly coronavirus cases occurred 
Dr. Toni Fauci reiterated his comments at the NIH vaccine research center



March 3, 202018:45 

In-town pool report #17 -- QUESTIONS from coronavirus task force briefing with VP
-- Pence said they are not worrying about cost... Verna added that medicare and medicaid will cover the cost of the diagnostic test
-- Dr. Fauci: "Right now the data we're getting from the Chinese scientists... is good information." Answer came right after explaining that China obviously covered up the human-to-human transmission in the beginning of the outbreak
-- Pence: "We are now screening all travelers from" areas affected by coronavirus, including South Korea, Italy and others
-- Azar: "We do not have any conventions" on private businesses issuing travel guidance/restrictions for their own employees-- There are going to be more cases, and increased diagnostics will yield more cases..." as we get those results we will issue more guidance on "travel"



March 3, 202018:48 

In-town pool report #18 -- readout of call with Taliban Deputy Leader Mullah Abdul Ghani Berader
Passing along from Deputy Press Sec. Judd Deere
Today, President Donald J. Trump spoke with Deputy Leader Mullah Abdul Ghani Berader of the Taliban to discuss progress toward peace in Afghanistan.  President Trump emphasized the need to continue the reduction in violence, which made possible the signing of the historic United States-Taliban agreement on February 29. He also urged the Taliban to participate in intra-Afghan negotiations with representatives of the Government of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan, as well as other Afghans, with the goal of ending more than 40 years of war.  The President stated that the United States stands ready to continue its support for the Afghan people as they pursue a peace settlement.



March 3, 202018:51 

In-town pool report #19 -- Travel/Photo Lid
White House issued a lid for the evening at 6:47 pm.
Would also add that VP announced there will be an on-camera coronavirus briefing Wednesday at 5:30 pm. If the task force meeting runs long, like it did Tuesday, it will be at 6:00 pm.
Now grab some popcorn and go enjoy those Super Tuesday results.




  