
    The following list does not include promotions of members of the Uniformed Services, nominations to the Service Academies, or nominations of Foreign Service officers.
Submitted March 25
James E. Hall, of Tennessee, to be Chairman of the National Transportation Safety Board for a term of 2 years (reappointment).
Raymond W. Kelly, of New York, to be Under Secretary of the Treasury for Enforcement, vice Ronald K. Noble, resigned.
Charles O. Cecil, of California, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Niger.
Wendy Jean Chamberlin, of Virginia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Lao People's Democratic Republic.
James Francis Creagan, of Virginia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Honduras.
Lino Gutierrez, of Florida, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Nicaragua.
David C. Halsted, of Vermont, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Chad.
Dennis K. Hays, of Florida, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Suriname.
Dennis C. Jett, of New Mexico, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Peru.
Tibor P. Nagy, Jr., of Texas, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Guinea.
Donald J. Planty, of New York, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Guatemala.
Submitted March 28
Johnny H. Hayes, of Tennessee, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Tennessee Valley Authority for a term expiring May 18, 2005 (reappointment).
Submitted March 29
Leslie M. Alexander, of Florida, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Ecuador.
Lawrence Baskir, of Maryland, to be a Judge of the U.S. Court of Federal Claims for a term of 15 years, vice Reginald W. Gibson, retired.
Prudence Bushnell, of Virginia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Kenya.
Colleen Kollar-Kotelly,
of the District of Columbia, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of Columbia, vice Harold H. Greene, retired.
M. Margaret McKeown, of Washington, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the Ninth Circuit, vice J. Jerome Farris, retired.
Withdrawn March 29
Mary Burrus Babson, of Illinois, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for National and Community Service for a term of one year (new position), which was sent to the Senate on January 22, 1996.
  