
    The following listing includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the White House Press Office and not included elsewhere in this issue.
March 3
The President met at the White House with Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs.
Prime Minister Menahem Begin of Israel and Mrs. Begin had dinner in the Residence with the President and Mrs. Carter. Following the dinner, the President and the Prime Minister met privately.
March 4
Prior to meeting with Prime Minister Begin and members of the Israeli delegation, the President met at the White House with Vice President Walter F. Mondale, Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance, Secretary of Defense Harold Brown, and Dr. Brzezinski. After meeting with the Prime Minister, the President spoke by telephone with President Anwar al-Sadat of Egypt, and then met with a group of Members of Congress.
March 5
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Prime Minister Begin;
—a group of officials of environmental organizations;
—Vice President Mondale.
The President spoke by telephone with President Sadat of Egypt and Prime Minister Begin of Israel.
March 6
The President met at the White House with:
—David L. Aaron, Deputy Assistant for National Security Affairs;
—Frank B. Moore, Assistant to the President for Congressional Liaison;
—the Democratic congressional leadership;
—Dr. Kenneth B. Clark, psychologist, author, and educator;
—James T. Mcintyre, Jr., Director of the Office of Management and Budget;
—a group of State and local officials to discuss the proposed intergovernmental fiscal assistance legislation;
—Secretary of the Treasury W. Michael Blumenthal.
The President has asked Joan Mondale and Secretary of Labor Ray Marshall to head the U.S. Delegation to the inaugurations of Presidents-elect in Venezuela, on March 11 and 12, and in Brazil, on March 14 and 15. Vice President Mondale, who was scheduled to head the delegation, will remain in Washington while the President travels to the Middle East. The White House also announced that the President called Venezuelan President-elect Luis 'Herrera Campins and Brazilian President elect Joao Baptista de Oliveira Figueiredo this afternoon to express his regrets that Vice President Mondale would be unable to attend their inaugurations. He wished them and their new administrations success, and he conveyed his personal wish that our Governments will continue to work closely together on issues of common concern. The Vice President looks forward to making an official visit to Venezuela and Brazil at a mutually convenient time.
March 7
The President met at the White House with:
—Mr. Aaron;
—Mr. Moore and members of the Budget Task Force;
—Vice President Mondale, Stansfield Turner, Director of Central Intelligence, Hamilton Jordan, Assistant to the President, and Mr. Aaron;
—Vice President Mondale, Secretary Blumenthal, G. William Miller, Chairman of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, Charles L. Schultze, Chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers, and Mr. Mcintyre;
—a group of Members of Congress prior to his departure for Egypt.
In addition to Joan Mondale and Secretary of Labor Ray Marshall, who will head the U.S. Delegation to the inaugurations of Presidents-elect Herrera Campins of Venezuela and Figueiredo of Brazil, the President has asked the following people to serve as members of the delegation:
REUBIN ASKEW, of Key Biscayne, Fla., former Governor of Florida;
MAURICE FERRE, of Miami, Fla., mayor of Miami;
DR. ARNOLD GONZALES, of Corpus Christi, Tex., member, Texas State Legislature;
NEIL HARTIGAN, of Chicago, Ill., senior vice president, First National Bank of Chicago and former Lieutenant Governor of Illinois;
ROBERT KEEFE, of Washington, D.C., president, the Keefe Co.;
LUIS LAUREDO, of Coral Gables, Fla., president, Lauredo and Associates of Miami and president, National Coalition of Cuban-Americans;
DAVID LIZARRAGA, of Los Angeles, Calif., president, the East Los Angeles Community Union (TELAGU);
FRANKLIN DELANO LOPEZ, of San Juan, Puerto Rico, chairman, Puerto Rico Democratic Party;
LIBBY MAYNARD, of Flint, Mich., vice chairperson, Michigan Democratic Party.
March 8
The President has declared a major disaster for the State of Hawaii as a result of severe storms and flooding, beginning about February 15, which caused extensive public and private property damage.
  