
    Matthew Tully
Indianapolis Star Political Columnist
The Indianapolis Star
Dear Ohio:
Hi, it's your friend Indiana here. Well, I should acknowledge that I don't speak for all of Indiana. But I'm certain I am speaking for a majority of your neighbors to the west when I say: Help!
Please, help.
So much about the direction of this country, so much about its future, is up to you on primary day. We've given up on Florida, and I don't know what to make of Illinois after last weekend's mess in Chicago. So I'm turning to you, a calm and reasonable Midwestern state, and asking you to do what you can to stop a national travesty that has been steamrolling ahead on an endless supply of hate and anger.
So what do we need you to do? Simply vote for your sensible and accomplished governor, John Kasich, and against a candidate, Donald Trump, who has been accurately called a bigot, a bully, a con man and a fearmonger.
It's up to you, Ohio.
[...]
Kasich is not Trump. And that by itself is enough. The fact he has a solid record as governor, and that he has elevated the discourse at every debate he's been in, is gravy.
Ohio, we need you.
We need you to send a message about what cannot be tolerated even in these horribly divisive times. We need you to be as strong as the Ohio State defense and stop the Trump disaster from gaining too much ground. To paraphrase that great Ohioan, Neil Armstrong, we need you to take one small step for the Republican Party — one step that could lead to a giant leap for the country.
Let me end with two quotes. Ulysses S. Grant, a native of Ohio who led the Union Army in the Civil War and later became president, wrote in his memoirs: "Things are seen plainer after the events have occurred."
My guess is, the Trump candidacy and everything that drove it will seem even plainer years from now than it does Tuesday. Time will show a clearer picture of the nastiness and hatred that propelled a candidate who didn't deserve a reality TV show, much less a chance at running the most important country on earth. I suspect many people will someday regret supporting him.
But we can't wait for history to play out. The stakes are too great. Tuesday is what matters.
The second quote comes from a modern-day son of your state. "I make impact plays," LeBron James once explained. "I make game-changing plays."
That's what we need from you on Tuesday, Ohio. We need a game-changing play. We need an impact play. We need a smart Midwestern state to say, no, we can do better than Donald J. Trump.
Read the full letter by clicking here.
  