
    During National Colorectal Cancer Awareness Month, Melania and I join in supporting all of those who are battling colon and rectal cancer. We stand in solidarity with the families and friends of those we have lost to this disease, and we rededicate ourselves to freeing the world from cancer.
Expected to claim more than 50,000 lives in the United States this year, colorectal cancer is the second leading cause of cancer-related deaths among American men and women. Individuals who are over the age of 50, have a family history of colorectal cancer, or are from African American or Hispanic backgrounds are at a higher risk of developing this disease.
All Americans can work together to defeat cancer by learning about their family medical history, maintaining healthy lifestyles, scheduling regular checkups, and receiving colorectal cancer screenings from the age of 50 onward. These simple actions can help make our families and our Nation more effective at preventing and treating colorectal cancer and supporting the recovery of those diagnosed with this terrible disease.
My administration is working to ensure that medical health professionals and research institutions have the resources they need to win the fight against colorectal cancer. Through the 21st Century Cures Act, we are accelerating new innovations and advances in medical technology, clinical trials, and treatments. We will continue to encourage screening for all Americans at higher risk of colorectal cancer and improve the quality of care for those battling this disease.
As we recognize National Colorectal Cancer Awareness Month, we applaud the researchers and medical and public health professionals who work tirelessly to develop treatments, provide care for those battling cancer, and advance programs to facilitate screening and save lives. Most importantly, we stand beside all those diagnosed with cancer, and we join their families, friends, and communities in praying for a brighter and cancer-free future for all.
  