
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
March 7
The President and Hillary Clinton went to Camp David, MD.
March 9
In the morning, the President and Hillary Clinton returned to Washington, DC.
In the evening, the President and Hillary Clinton hosted a Millennium Evening event in the East Room, which was taped for later broadcast on WETA's "In Performance at the White House" series.
The President declared a major disaster in Alabama and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms and flooding beginning on March 7.
March 10
In the morning, the President traveled to Bridgeport, CT, and in the afternoon, he traveled to Westport, CT.
Later, the President traveled to Cincinnati, OH, and in the evening, he returned to Washington, DC.
The President announced his intention to nominate Alice Rae Yelen to serve as a member of the National Museum Services Board.
The President announced his intention to nominate Thomas Ehrlich and Dorothy A. Johnson to serve as members of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for National and Community Service.
The President announced his intention to appoint Milton M. Irvin as Chair and member of the Advisory Committee to the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation.
March 11
In the afternoon, the President met with Chairman of the Government Viktor Chernomyrdin of Russia in the Oval Office.
The President announced his intention to nominate Mahlon (Sandy) Apgar IV to be Assistant Secretary of the Army for Installations, Logistics, and Environment at the Department of Defense.
The President named Todd Stern to coordinate the administration's efforts on climate change, as Assistant to the President for Special Projects.
The President named Phillip Caplan as Assistant to the President and Staff Secretary.
The President announced his intention to nominate James K. Robinson to serve as Assistant Attorney General for the Criminal Division at the Department of Justice.
The White House announced that the President will travel to Las Vegas, NV, on March 18 and will return to Washington, DC, late the same evening.
The White House announced that the President will visit Rwanda while he is in Africa March 22-April 2.
The President declared a major disaster in Georgia and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms and flooding beginning March 7.
March 12
The President announced his intention to nominate G. Edward DeSeve to serve as Deputy Director for Management in the Office of Management and Budget.
The President announced his intention to nominate Vivian Lowery Derryck to serve as Assistant Administrator for Africa at the U.S. Agency for International Development.
March 13
In the afternoon, the President met with Rev. Jesse Jackson in the Oval Office.
Later, the President and Hillary Clinton went to Camp David, MD.
  