
    Pool Reports by Joey Garrison, USA Today 



Sent:
Reports:




March 6, 202109:08

In-town print pool report #1 
Good morning from the White House.
I will be your print pooler today. It’s a bright sunny day and a cool 36 degrees.
POTUS has no public events on his schedule. I will let you know if that changes.
Let me know if you have any questions.



March 6, 202113:39

In-town print pool report #2 
The White House in-town pool is gathering at the White House North Palm Room doors at 1:50 pm. It follows the Senate's 50-49 vote to approve Biden's COVID-19 relief bill.



March 6, 202113:45

In-town print pool report #3 
The out-of-town pool gathered at 10:50 a.m.EST to depart to Wilmington, Del. but turned around after passing Baltimore before they reached their destination. No further guidance was provided by the White House



March 6, 202114:01

In-person print pool report #4 
Press gathered at 1:52 pm EST at the State Dining Room in the White House waiting for POTUS to give remarks on the Senate’s passage of his Covid relief bill.
He’s expected to speak soon. A 2-minute warning was initially made but rescinded.
It will be livestreamed by the White House so I won’t be sending a transcription of his statement.



March 6, 202114:03

In-person print pool report #5 
Two-minute warning on Biden'a remarks.



March 6, 202114:21

In-person print pool report #6 
POTUS began speaking at 2:05 pm. He finished at 12:14 pm
Asked afterward for his reaction about getting no Republican support on his covid relief bill, Biden said, "Look, the American people strongly support what we're doing here. That's the key here."
"They're not frustrated," he said in response to a question about progressives frustrated by some of the changes to the bill. "As Sen. Sanders said, this is the most progressive bill since he's been here."
I will give full quotes in my next pool reporter.
VPOTUS stood behind POTUS to his right as he spoke. A portrait of Lincoln hung on the wall behind POTUS.
"Good afternoon, it's a good day today,"POTUS said before talking about the Senate's passage of his relief bill, touting its benefits and thanking Leader Schumer.
"It wasn't always pretty but it was so desperately needed," Biden said.
Biden: "It's going to make a big difference for so many lives in this country."
"This plan puts us on a plan toward beating the virus," he later said, adding that it will "cut child poverty in half."
"When I ran for president I said we would take America out of battling on Twitter," and showing that the federal government "can work for them."
"Every public opinion shows the people want this."
He added that he hopes for "quick passage" on Tuesday of the Senate version in the House. "Passing this bill show that this government, this democracy can still work,"
"As tough as this moment is — and it really is — there are brighter days ahead."



March 6, 202114:38

in-town print pool report #7 
In the previous pool report #6, I intended to say POTUS began speaking at 2:05 p.m. EST and ended at *2:14 EST.*
POTUS answered a couple questions from reporters after giving his prepared remarks.
First question: Why don't you think you got a single Republican vote and what does the drama of the last 24 hours, including with Sen. Manchin, tell you about the next four years?
POTUS: "They're going to be good. I'm going to succeed. We're going to succeed moving forward. Look, the American people strongly support what we're doing. That's the key here. And that's going to continue to seep down through the public including from our Republican friends. There's a lot of Republicans that came very close, they've got a lot of pressure on them and I still haven't giving up on getting their support."
Question: Your message to progressives frustrated … (inaudible from where I was standing)
POTUS: "They're not frustrated. As Bernie Sanders said, this is the most progressive bill that he's ever seen passed since he's been here. The compromises were all compromises that didn't affect the substance or the essence of what the bill does."
He said that although the bill will reduce unemployment benefits from $400 to $300, the benefits will extend to September.
"The end result was essentially about the same. I don't think any compromise has in any way fundamentally altered the essence of what I put forward."
The pool was then hurried out.



March 6, 202114:41

In-town print pool report #8 
A fuller quote here from POTUS on the question about frustration from progressives.
POTUS: "As Bernie Sanders said, this is the most progressive bill he's ever seen pass since he's been here. The compromises were all compromises that didn't affect the substance, the essence, of what the bill is. Going from $400 to $300 in unemployment excess? Well, it got extended up until September. The end result is essentially about the same. So I don't think any of the compromises have in any way fundamentally altered the essence of what I put in the bill in the first place."



March 6, 202117:38

In-town print pool report #9 
The pool and president’s motorcade arrived at 5:35 pm EST at Holy Trinity Catholic Church in the Georgetown neighborhood of DC.
POTUS waved to the pool as he left his vehicle and walked up the steps of the church to attend evening mass.



March 6, 202118:17

In-town print pool report #10 
POTUS exited the church at 6:10 pm EST after attending mass for around 35 minutes. The pool waited outside.
POTUS waved at the pool and waved at a group of people nearby who cheered as he entered the president's vehicle. "Thank you!" a woman yelled at the president.
POTUS and the pool are now heading back to the White House.



March 6, 202118:23

In-town print pool report #11 
The White House has called a lid for the night.
Have a good evening, folks. Let me know if you have any questions!




  