
    Thirty elected and appointed Democrats endorse Castro for President
SAN ANTONIO, TX (March 14, 2019) — On Thursday, the presidential campaign of former U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) Secretary under President Obama and San Antonio Mayor, Julián Castro, announced a new slate of endorsements from 30 elected and appointed Democrats across Texas. The new list of endorsements from state senators, representatives, judges and local officials builds on support he has already received from Congressman Vicente González (TX-15), a two-term member from the Rio Grande Valley in South Texas, Congressman Colin Allred (TX-32), the 116th Congress Freshman Class Co-President, and Congressman Joaquin Castro (TX-20), his twin brother and Campaign Chairman.
"I'm humbled by the support of so many of my fellow Texas Democrats," said Secretary Julián Castro. "We've long been working together to turn Texas blue and I am confident that if I am the Democratic nominee for President, I will carry Texas' 38 electoral votes to a win on election day 2020."
The 30 endorsements include 17 Texas state representatives, two state senators, a Hidalgo County district attorney, three Bexar County officials, six San Antonio City Council members, and former San Antonio Mayor and Secretary of the Department of Housing and Urban Development, Henry Cisneros. 
"This is a critical moment in our nation's political history," saidformer San Antonio Mayor and HUD Secretary Henry Cisneros. "These times demand a candidate with the vision of an executive, the heart of a powerful personal story and a successful track record of not just talking about bold policy, but delivering results. As Mayor of the nation's seventh-largest city and a Cabinet Secretary of a complex agency that touches Americans at every level along the economic spectrum, Julián Castro has proven himself at every step of the way, which is why he's my choice to be the next President of the United States."
"In addition to the numerous successful policies implemented under his tenure as Mayor and Secretary, Julián has demonstrated a mastery of the intricacies of local, state, and federal governments," said Bexar County Judge Nelson Wolff. "His vast political experience underscores his ability to work across the political spectrum and around bureaucratic silos to get things done for his constituents — and I believe that's the kind of experience required of the next President of the United States."
"We need a leader who is experienced, balanced and passionate — that leader is Secretary Julián Castro," said Texas State Rep. Mary González (D-75). "Secretary Castro's excellent record as an executive, both as Mayor of San Antonio, a large Texas city, and as Secretary of a major federal agency, is proof of his policy acumen, leadership abilities and desire to improve the lives of Americans. I proudly endorse Secretary Castro, because our democracy depends on a strong, principled voice in the oval office."
"Through my years in public service, I know Julián's commitment to improving the lives of Latinos and all Texans," said Texas State Rep. Rafael Anchia (D-103). "I'm honored to offer my endorsement of his candidacy and look forward to working towards a more hopeful and prosperous Texas under his leadership as president."
"Secretary Julián Castro has proven his innovative approach to solving problems and recognizing that the future can indeed be a brighter one for all Americans," said Texas State Rep. Richard Peña Raymond (D-42). "Creating opportunities for children as Mayor of San Antonio by establishing a Pre-K program, and significantly reducing veteran homelessness while HUD Secretary are just two examples. I support Secretary Castro because I truly believe that as president he will lead all Americans to a better future."
"As a middle school teacher on the westside of San Antonio, I personally witnessed Mayor Castro's tremendous leadership and commitment to educational opportunity," said Texas State Rep. James Talarico (D-52). "Mayor Castro risked his political career on a proposal to raise local taxes to provide Pre-K for kids growing up on the westside, just like he did. I can't think of a better leader for America's teachers, parents and students than Julián Castro."
"Sec. Castro will be the education president that we need. His Pre-K 4 SA initiative was just the beginning," said Texas State Rep. John Bucy III (D-136).  "He will be the president who gets Pre-K for the USA. Sec. Castro is a proven grassroots organizer helping to build civic engagement from the ground up. I've witnessed his effectiveness firsthand as he has worked tirelessly to build community engagement across Texas' suburbs. I am proud to support Secretary Julián Castro for president."
Full list of endorsements: 

   


Juan Jesus Hinojosa     
State Senator (D-20)


Eddie Lucio, Jr.  
State Senator (D-27)




   


Abel Herrero
State Representative (D-34)


Armando Martinez
State Representative (D-39)


Armando Walle
State Representative (D-140)


Diego Bernal
State Representative (D-123)


Eddie Lucio III
State Representative (D-38)


Hubert Vo
State Representative (D-149)


James Talarico
State Representative (D-52)


John Bucy III
State Representative (D-136)


Mary Gonzalez
State Representative (D-75)


Philip Cortez
State Representative (D-117)


Poncho Nevárez
State Representative (D-74)


Rafael Anchia
State Representative (D-103)


Richard Peña Raymond   
State Representative (D-42)


Ryan Guillen
State Representative (D-31)


Sergio Muñoz Jr.
State Representative (D-36)


Terry Canales
State Representative (D-40)


Terry Meza
State Representative (D-105)




   


Justin Rodriguez  
Bexar County Commissioner - Precinct 2


Tommy Calvert
Bexar County Commissioner - Precinct 4


Nelson Wolff
Bexar County Judge


Ricardo Rodriguez
District Attorney, Hidalgo County




   


Ana Sandoval
San Antonio City Council (D-7)


Manny Peláez
San Antonio City Council (D-8)


Rebecca Viagran
San Antonio City Council (D-3)


Rey Saldaña
San Antonio City Council (D-4)


Roberto C. Treviño   
San Antonio City Council (D-1)


Shirley Gonzalez
San Antonio City Council (D-5)




   


Henry Cisneros 
Former San Antonio Mayor (81-89), 10th Secretary of Housing & Urban Development (93-97)



  