
    San Jose, San Francisco, Sacramento, Long Beach, Oakland and Compton Mayors Are Latest State Elected Officials to Support Harris
San Jose Mayor Sam Liccardo, San Francisco Mayor London Breed, Sacramento Mayor Darrell Steinberg, Long Beach Mayor Robert Garcia, Oakland Mayor Libby Schaaf and Compton Mayor Aja Brown are endorsing Senator Kamala Harris for president. Together, these mayors represent nearly 3.5 million Californians.
"Our country deserves a president who will fight for all Americans, and unite all Americans in that fight. I'm proud to say that Kamala Harris is best suited for the job," said Liccardo. "Californians have had a tremendous ally in Senator Harris since her first days in public service—taking on the biggest banks to protect homeowners during the mortgage crisis, and taking on violent criminal rings to protect our children. Her courageous leadership in the U.S. Senate demonstrates she's ready to lead our nation."
"I couldn't be more enthusiastic to endorse my fellow Bay Area sister, Kamala Harris, and her candidacy for President," said Breed. "Kamala's groundbreaking campaigns for district attorney, attorney general and the United States Senate paved the way for me and many women who have sought elected office in this state. She is acutely aware of the work that needs to be done on behalf of this nation and is prepared to lead and lift up hard-working men and women across this nation."
"As a Mayor and legislative leader, I've been a firsthand witness to Kamala's record of real results, taking on powerful special interests and protecting our most vulnerable communities," said Steinberg. "I know she'll bring that same principled leadership to the White House at a time where it is needed more than ever."
"Whether as district attorney, attorney general, or United States Senator, Kamala Harris has consistently fought for the rights of all people - homeowners, children, same-sex couples," said Garcia. Her fighting spirit and bold vision is the perfect antidote to the chaos of this current Administration and I'm proud to endorse her campaign for president."
"There is no one better I can think of to lead our nation in these times than Oakland's very own Kamala Harris," said Schaaf. She is a fighter, a proven leader and champion for progressive ideals. Her leadership on the issues that matter like expanding affordable healthcare and lifting up middle class families is the leadership our country needs which is why I'm proudly endorsing Kamala Harris for president."
"For California communities large and small, Kamala Harris has been a ferocious advocate for everyday people," said Brown. "Whether she has been protecting our children from violence in the streets, or advocating for maternal mortality protections in the United States, she's done a tremendous job. She will continue that legacy at the national level and I look forward to supporting her campaign to get us even closer to a more perfect union."
These mayors join Governor Gavin Newsom, Lt. Governor Eleni Kounalakis, four other statewide constitutional officers, and five Members of Congress from California in backing Harris's candidacy. She also has received the endorsements of 21 members of the California State Senate Democratic Caucus, including Senate Pro Tem Toni Atkins. California's early primary will be on March 3, 2020.
Newsom, Congresswoman Barbara Lee and labor and civil rights leader Dolores Huerta will serve as California Co-Chairs for Harris's campaign.
  