
    Madam Prime Minister and our distinguished guests:
As I am sure you have noted, the tables are rather crowded tonight, and I can let you in on a little secret about how White House invitations are issued and what happens on an occasion like this.
Normally invitations go out, as you know, about 3 to 4 weeks in advance, and because we want to be sure that for our distinguished guests we have all of the places filled, we usually send 20 more invitations than the 110 that this room will seat, and always the cancellations make it possible not only for us to have not just the 110 that the room will seat, but we can add a few more at the last minute.
This time, all 120 accepted and invited a few friends.
I don't know of a dinner we have had, Madam Prime Minister, in this house since we have had the honor of being here, in which more people wanted to come and in which we could make fewer friends and more enemies than we did by inviting the group that we have here. But this company is one that is very distinguished. It represents our Government, our Congress; it represents also this whole Nation.
As you noted, they came from Los Angeles, San Francisco, New York, the South, the North, the East, and the West. And that tells us something. It tells us about the respect and the admiration they have for your country, for you, personally, and for your people.
Before proposing the formal toast to you, I think it is only appropriate on this occasion to say a word about one who has served your country so well and the cause of good relations between our two countries so well.
Ambassador [Yitzhak] Rabin came to Washington as Ambassador 4 years ago as one of the most respected military leaders in the world. He leaves Washington on his 51st birthday, which is tonight, as one of the most respected and able ambassadors ever to serve in the Washington Capital-as a matter of fact, if you want to give up your citizenship, we have a job for you.
And now, to our distinguished guest, there is so little we can say to this audience made up of her friends and her admirers. I can, however, speak for all of us by saying that we appreciate what she has done for her country; we are proud of the fact that she began in our country. We also are aware of the fact that she has played a great role in the past and will play a great role in the years to come, not only in the future of her country but of the Mideast and, therefore, of the world.
I was reading a little background before this evening's dinner, and a statement by Ben-Gurion about our distinguished guest tonight in which he said that history will record that, thanks to a Jewish woman, the Jewish State came into existence. And that is an enormous compliment to one who had contributed as much as he had to the creation of and the initiation of the State of Israel.
We don't need to go into that background with this company. I will simply say that as we look at the problems today, and as we look at what our distinguished guest has accomplished through the years, we can have hope as to the future.
All of us remember that when Israel became independent, there were those who said it was impossible. All of us remember that after Israel became independent, there were those who said it was impossible that they could defend that independence surrounded as they were by implacable enemies. And now today it is said that it is impossible that there is any chance to build any kind of a stable or lasting peace in the area.
Well, our distinguished guest has played a great role, first, in proving that it was not impossible that Israel could become independent, that it was not impossible that Israel would develop the strength to maintain and defend its independence. And also I certainly believe that she can and will play a great role in the future in building that peace which seems to be impossible, but which is her dream, the dream of all people in the world, in the Mideast and in all the areas around it.
I would not suggest that it is easy. I would not suggest that it will be soon or instant. But I do suggest that the kind of leadership, enlightened, courageous and strong, that built an independent Israel, that has defended its independence, has the genius within it to contribute to the kind of peace in that troubled part of the world which will provide real security for the states involved, as well as peace.
And it is this, of course, which has been the dream of the Prime Minister. It is this goal which we have discussed and toward which we are working. And it is in that spirit that I know that all of you will tonight want to rise with me, and as you rise, I would suggest that we are proud to have her here again as she has been in this house before, 4 years ago, proud because she is the Prime Minister of Israel, proud because of everything she has done for her country, proud because she had her roots in our country. And may our two countries always stand together in the cause of peace and independence and freedom for all people.
To Prime Minister Meir. To the Prime Minister.
  