
    Today, Illinois Congressmen Raja Krishnamoorthi and Bobby Rush endorsed Joe Biden for President. Both Krishnamoorthi and Rush cited Vice President Biden's integrity, record of legislative achievements, and ability to beat Donald Trump.
"Today I am proud to announce my endorsement of Vice President Joe Biden," said Congressman Raja Krishnamoorthi. "Throughout his career, Joe has shown the ability to bring people together while fighting for working families who have been left behind. Between his lifetime of public service and the personal challenges he has faced, Joe embodies humanity and empathy at a time when those qualities are sorely lacking in the White House but remain necessary to address the struggles Americans face every day. We need a nominee who can defeat Donald Trump while honoring our founding principles — that all people are created equal no matter where they come from, how they worship, or whom they love. Joe Biden is that person."
Congressman Bobby Rush also announced his support for Vice President Biden, saying in a statement: "In my mind, Joe Biden is the only candidate who not only has what it takes to defeat Donald Trump, but to also unite the country, keep our House majority intact, and actually enact meaningful legislation to improve the lives of my constituents. We cannot afford to squander this opportunity on untested theories and unqualified candidates. Electing Joe Biden is our only surefire chance to take back the White House, as well as the very soul of this nation, from the impending autocratic grip of this demagogic Chairman-in-Chief."
Since 2017, Congressman Raja Krishnamoorthi has represented Illinois' 8th District. The son of immigrants and a public school graduate, Raja has fought for the middle class through his leadership on workforce development, including authoring the law which reformed the American career and technical education system for the first time in more than a decade. As a member of the House Intelligence and Oversight Committees, Raja has played a leading role in the impeachment inquiry and in holding the Trump Administration accountable for its actions that threaten the health and well-being of our families and communities.
Since 1993, Congressman Rush has been a champion and strong leader for his constitutions in Illinois' 1st District. Rush is a veteran of the United States Army, an ordained minister with a Master's Degree in Theology. In Congress, he serves on the powerful House Energy and Commerce committee and is the Chairman of the Energy Subcommittee. He has played an influential role on landmark legislation throughout his career, including serving as a conferee on the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act.
Congressmen Krishnamoorthi and Rush join a growing list of prominent Illinois leaders supporting Biden, including fellow Members of Congress Brad Schneider, Danny Davis, Mike Quigley, Robin Kelly, Sean Casten, and Bill Foster; U.S. Senators Dick Durbin and Tammy Duckworth; Secretary of State Jesse White; Comptroller Susana A. Mendoza; Chicago Mayor Lori Lightfoot; former Senator and Ambassador Carol Moseley Braun; and state legislators, mayors, and community leaders from across Illinois.
Biden for President has previously announced more than 2,100 endorsements from national, state, and local leaders, including current and former U.S. senators and representatives, governors, state elected officials, community leaders, and national security professionals.
  