
    Presidents Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva and George W. Bush resolved to continue deepening the strategic dialogue between Brazil and the United States, as reflected in the determination to increase bilateral cooperation based on the shared values of democracy, human rights, cultural diversity, trade liberalization, multilateralism, environmental protection, defense of international peace and security, and promotion of development with social justice.
The Presidents welcomed the strengthening of the partnership between the two countries in the area of renewable energy with the Memorandum of Understanding to Advance Cooperation on Biofuels, signed in São Paulo on March 9, 2007. The Presidents noted with satisfaction the results of the meeting on implementation of the Memorandum, held in Washington on March 29. They expressed their governments' intention to arrange for Brazilian scientists and researchers to visit state-of-the-art biofuels research laboratories in the United States, as well as visits to Brazil by senior officials of the United States Departments of Energy, State, and Agriculture in Spring 2007. The United States and Brazil recognized the support of institutions including the IDB, the United Nations Foundation, and the Organization of American States. Brazil and the United States plan to begin efforts to work together, initially, with Haiti, the Dominican Republic, St. Kitts and Nevis, and El Salvador, and to pursue consultations with other countries interested in participating in the cooperation program.
The Presidents noted with satisfaction the growth of bilateral trade and investments between the United States and Brazil. They reaffirmed their intention to use the ongoing "Commercial Dialogue" to seek ways to promote innovation and increase trade opportunities, particularly for small- and medium-sized enterprises, as well as to protect intellectual property rights. The Heads of State noted the formation of the U.S.-Brazil CEO Forum to engage directly with leaders in the business community to discuss economic and trade-related topics. They applauded plans by United States Council on Competitiveness and Brazilian Competitiveness Movement to stage an "Innovation Summit" in Brasília in July 2007 to support greater competitiveness and innovation. The Presidents agreed to direct their governments to explore initiatives in the area of tourism, including examining the possibility of increasing flights between Brazil and the United States, with particular attention to Northeast Brazil.
The Presidents applauded the March 20, 2007 signing in Brasília of an Agreement for the Exchange of Information Relating to Taxes. The Presidents expressed hope that the signing of this Agreement will be the first step toward cooperation between the Brazilian Federal Revenue Secretariat and the Internal Revenue Service. They pledged to redouble ongoing work toward the conclusion of an agreement on double taxation.
The Presidents noted with satisfaction the progress achieved since their November 2005 meeting in Brasília, including the first-ever convening of the bilateral Joint Commission on Science and Technology on July 21, 2006; and the launch of a Commercial Dialogue between the Brazilian Ministry of Development, Industry, and Foreign Trade and the U.S. Department of Commerce.
The Presidents welcomed the strengthened partnership in education through the renewal of the Memorandum of Understanding in this area. They applauded the immediate start-up of its implementation with the launch of a program targeting increased professional and technological education in Brazil and bilateral exchange in an effort to include increasing numbers of young people and adults in the labor market.
The Presidents expressed their support for cooperation with African countries. They applauded the trilateral cooperation to strengthen the Legislative Branch of Guinea-Bissau, as established in the March 30 Memorandum of Understanding. The Presidents also discussed the possible broadening of such cooperative efforts to include other interested African countries. The two Presidents announced a specific commitment to cooperate on a plan to eradicate malaria in Sao Tome and Principe. They also agreed to explore cooperation in combating malaria, tuberculosis, and neglected diseases, especially in Portuguese-speaking countries in Africa such as Angola and Mozambique, and to confront the threat of avian flu, building on their cooperation on HIV/AIDS in Mozambique and Angola.
The Presidents recognized that the success of international action in Haiti depends on simultaneous activities to achieve security, political reconciliation, and socioeconomic development. They intend to act within the United Nations framework to increase multilateral cooperation in Haiti and welcomed efforts to identify areas of mutual cooperation in support of stability and economic development in Cite Soleil. They applauded the success of efforts by Brazil and the United States, in cooperation with other countries in the region, to secure United Nations Security Council renewal of the mandate of the United Nations Stabilization Mission in Haiti (MINUSTAH) last February.
The Presidents sought to strengthen bilateral cooperation in the area of public safety, particularly in combating organized crime, drug trafficking, and money laundering, and in preventing terrorism and terrorism financing, with emphasis on information sharing between intelligence units and on the establishment of mechanisms for recovering assets resulting from transnational crimes.
The Heads of State reaffirmed global economic growth and development as the main objectives of the Doha Round of the World Trade Organization (WTO). They underscored the importance of continuing to constructively engage negotiators, which facilitated the resumption of the negotiations. The Presidents pledged to work together toward a successful conclusion, taking advantage of the window of opportunity opened in 2007. They emphasized that the agreement should be ambitious and balanced, with a view to both an appreciable increase in market access and in global trade flows, and a significant reduction in global poverty rates.
The Presidents reaffirmed the importance of reform of the United Nations to make the organization better able to deal with today's complex international agenda. They further reaffirmed their commitment to coordinate closely on the issue of Security Council reform.
The Presidents recognized the importance of the role played by Brazilians in the United States and American citizens in Brazil. They pledged to improve bilateral cooperation and consular activity through the expansion of their respective consular networks.
  