
    To the Congress of the United States:
I am pleased to transmit a report of our national progress in aeronautics and space activities during 1972.
The Apollo program was successfully concluded with the flights of Apollo 16 and 17. These missions were designed to obtain maximum scientific return and provided almost half the lunar exploration time in the Apollo program. Though it is far too early to attempt a definitive assessment of the value of this program, it is clear that one result will be a quantum jump in both our scientific knowledge and our technological expertise.
Our unmanned satellites include a variety of vehicles ranging from meteorological, navigational and communication satellites to a new experimental spacecraft providing information on our resources and environment. Increasing practical applications for satellite technology confirm the immediate value of our efforts in space, while observatory satellites and others carrying specialized scientific instruments provide accurate and dependable data never before available to scientists on earth.
The conclusion of the Apollo program marks only another step in this Nation's push into space. In the current year, we expect to launch Skylab, which will permit extended experimentation in a manned vehicle. After Skylab, a joint mission by this Nation and the Soviet Union will rendezvous and dock two spacecraft, helping to link our two space efforts in a .mutually productive manner. The space shuttle presently under development will make the launching of satellites and laboratories less expensive and more productive. The shuttle will be augmented by the sortie laboratory which the Western European countries intend to develop as part of our joint cooperation in space.
The past year has also seen advances in aeronautical research and development. It should be emphasized that work in this field is particularly vital if America is to maintain its leadership in the development and production of civil and military aircraft and engines.
Our efforts in aeronautics and space will continue through programs balanced at levels which will allow us to meet demands in these and other important domestic and foreign areas.
RICHARD NIXON
The White House,
March 19, 1973.
  