
    Sanders was the only member of the Democratic Caucus in the Senate to vote against reauthorizing Ex-Im
Sunday, Representatives Debbie Dingell [D-MI] and Tim Ryan [D-OH] released statements criticizing Senator Sanders for voting with Tea Party Republicans last year to kill the Export-Import bank, which plays a vital role in supporting American manufacturing jobs in each of their home states. Nationally, the Export-Import Bank has supported over a million private-sector jobs in recent years without costing taxpayers a dime, and nearly 90% of the bank's transactions directly support American small businesses.
Below are their statements:
"When given the chance to stand on the side of manufacturing jobs, Senator Sanders has showed time and again that it's not just a priority. Last year, Senator Sanders was the only Democrat in the Senate to vote with ultra-conservative Republicans to kill the Export-Import Bank, a program critical to Michigan's manufacturing sector. Hillary Clinton has a clear record in support of American manufacturing, and, unlike Senator Sanders, has outlined a plan for how she will strengthen manufacturing and make the U.S. the location for the next generation of good paying jobs," said Congresswoman Debbie Dingell [D-MI]
"I'm supporting Hillary Clinton for President because she has always shown leadership for the manufacturing industry that is so critical in the state of Ohio. Senator Sanders, on the other hand, stood with the most extreme right-wing members of Congress in their efforts to kill the Export-Import Bank, which provides critical support to 350 businesses in Ohio and over a million jobs nationwide. General Electric even decided against moving its headquarters to Cincinnati last year, citing opposition from some Republican officials to the Ex-Im Bank as the reason. Every Congressional Democrat in Ohio voted to reauthorize the Ex-Im Bank. Senator Sanders voted to kill it. That is not the type of leadership we need to move Ohio forward," said Congressman Tim Ryan [D-OH]
  