
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate four individuals and designate and nominate one individual to serve in his administration:
The President intends to nominate Constance Berry Newman, of Illinois, to be an Assistant Secretary of State (African Affairs). Ms. Newman currently serves as Assistant Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development (Bureau of Africa). Earlier in her career, Ms. Newman served as Under Secretary at the Smithsonian Institution. She earned her bachelor's degree from Bates College and her graduate degree from the University of Minnesota.
The President intends to nominate Jonathan W. Dudas, of Virginia, to be Under Secretary of Commerce for Intellectual Property and Director of the United States Patent and Trademark Office. Currently, Mr. Dudas serves as Deputy Under Secretary of Commerce for Intellectual Property and Deputy Director of the United States Patent and Trademark Office. He previously served as Counsel for Legal Policy and Senior Floor Assistant for the Office of the Speaker of the U.S. House of Representatives. He earned his bachelor's degree from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign and his J.D. from the University of Chicago.
The President intends to designate Thomas Neil Hull, III, of New Hampshire, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Sierra Leone. A career member of the Senior Foreign Service, Mr. Hull currently serves as Deputy Chief of Mission at the American Embassy in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia. He previously served as Public Affairs Officer in Pretoria, South Africa. Mr. Hull earned his bachelor's degree from Dickinson College and his master's degree from Columbia University.
The President intends to nominate Jendayi Elizabeth Frazer, of Virginia, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of South Africa. Dr. Frazer currently serves as Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for African Affairs at the National Security Council. She previously served as an Assistant Professor of Public Policy at the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University. Prior to this position, Dr. Frazer served as a Council on Foreign Relations International Affairs Fellow at the Department of Defense and the National Security Council. She earned her bachelor's degree, master's degree, and Ph.D. from Stanford University.
The President intends to designate Mitchell B. Reiss, of Virginia, as Special Envoy for Northern Ireland, and nominate him for the Rank of Ambassador during his tenure of service as Special Envoy. Dr. Reiss currently serves as Director of Policy Planning for the State Department. Previously, he served in several capacities at the College of William and Mary. In addition, Dr. Reiss served as the chief negotiator and General Counsel to the Korean Pennisula Energy Development Organization. He earned his bachelor's degree from Williams College, his J.D. from Columbia Law School, and his D.Phil. from Oxford University.
  