
    At the grand opening celebration of his Las Vegas campaign office, the first Presidential campaign office in the state, Governor Bill Richardson named Nevada political veteran Roberta Lange Nevada State Director of his campaign for President.  
Lange, currently serving her second term as President of the Henderson Democratic Club, previously served as Finance Director to the Dina Titus gubernatorial campaign in 2006, during which time she raised more than $3.8 million.  Her experience includes several congressional and statewide campaigns.  In 1998, she served as Deputy Campaign Manager for Senator Harry Reid's re-election campaign.  
"Nevada and the West are critically important to this Presidential election and to my campaign," said Governor Richardson.  "Candidates must recognize that Nevada's issues are unique and therefore they must have a staff that understands the West.  Roberta is a talented political professional and a strong leader with friendships and ties throughout the state.  I am proud to announce that she will lead my Nevada campaign."
"It is an honor to work for such an accomplished candidate," said Lange.  "As a seasoned diplomat and executive leader, only Governor Richardson has the actual experience to get us out of Iraq, make the economy work for the middle class and combat global warming. Moreover, Governor Richardson is one of us. As a Westerner, he faces the same issues Nevadans live with everyday. From growth and water issues, to renewable energy, protecting our land and Yucca Mountain, Governor Richardson has the hands-on knowledge and understanding Nevadans want in their next President."
Lange began her political career after being elected President of her local teacher's union while teaching Physical Education in Washington State.  She moved to Nevada in 1995 to marry her husband, Ken.  She taught at Durango High School in Las Vegas from 1997 until she was recruited to work for Senator Reid's 1998 campaign.
As State Director, Lange will join State Campaign Chairman Reynaldo Martinez, former Chief of Staff to Senator Reid, in shaping the Nevada Campaign.  From the new campaign office at 515 S. 7th St. in Las Vegas, Lange and Martinez will lead a team that includes field organizers Javier Trujillo, Theresa Navarro, and Michael Tassone and Communications Director Josh McNeil.
  