
    To the Congress of the United States:
I am pleased to submit to the Congress the Sixth Annual Report of the National Science Board.
Our Nation's commitment to a strong program of scientific research is well-founded. Science has stretched the horizons of man by providing knowledge that enlarges our understanding of the universe and mankind. Scientific research has helped us solve a wide range of problems and provided the basis for expanding productivity, strengthening our economy and national security, and improving the quality of our lives.
There are many new challenges ahead, including mankind's growing power to affect the future and to modify--both intentionally and unintentionally-the basic conditions and quality of life. The National Science Board has made an important contribution by careful study of a number of the challenges that face our country and the world, including population growth, food supply, energy demands, mineral resource supply, weather and climate modification, and environmental change. The Board has recommended expanded research to help us prepare for these challenges.
Our strong national scientific research effort must be maintained with support from both the public and private sectors. During the current fiscal year, the Federal Government will spend $7.4 billion for the support of research. My 1976 budget asks the Congress to provide $8.2 billion--an increase of 10 percent. This increase, even though larger than that requested for many programs, will not permit support for all important research. For this reason, the National Science Board's report is especially significant. The recommendations of the distinguished scientists that make up the Board should be useful in identifying those areas of research that warrant the highest priority.
I am asking all Federal agencies to consider the Board's recommendations in developing their research programs. I also commend the report to the Congress and the American people.
GERALD R. FORD
The White House,
March 21, 1975.
  