
    WASHINGTON- Today, President Obama nominated Clayton D. Johnson, Alfred Cooper Lomax, and Charles F. Salina to serve as U.S. Marshals.
"I am pleased to nominate these outstanding public servants to serve as U.S. Marshals," said President Obama. "Throughout their careers, these individuals have demonstrated an unwavering commitment to justice, and I am grateful for their continued willingness to serve and protect the American people."
Clayton D. Johnson: Nominee for United States Marshal for the Northern District of Oklahoma
Clayton D. Johnson is Chief of Police with the Ponca City Police Department, a post he has held since 2002. He joined the Police Department in 1986 as a police officer, and rose through the ranks throughout his time there. Since 2008, Johnson has also served as an Adjunct Professor at the University of Oklahoma, where he teaches courses on criminal justice issues.
Alfred Cooper Lomax: Nominee for United States Marshal for the Western District of Missouri
Alfred Cooper Lomax is a lifelong Missouri resident who began his law enforcement career with the Kansas City Missouri Police Department. After almost 30 years with the Department, he went on to serve as the Chief of Airport Safety and Security at the Kansas City International Airport. Lomax received his bachelor's degree from the University of Missouri at Kansas City and earned a master's degree from the University of Central Missouri. He is a graduate of the FBI National Academy, as well.
Charles F. Salina: Nominee for United States Marshal for the Western District of New York
Charles F. Salina has spent his entire law enforcement career with the United States Marshals Service. He joined the Marshals Service in 1988 as a Deputy Marshal in the Southern District of New York and rose through the ranks to become Supervisory Criminal Investigator for the Western District of New York. From 1990 to 2001, Salina served as a member of the Marshals Service's Special Operations Group, which involved rapid deployments throughout the country. Salina holds a bachelor's degree from Oswego State University.
  