
    Eleven Member Caucus is Latest to Support Harris
Today, the California Asian Pacific Islander (API) Legislative Caucus endorsed Senator Kamala Harris for president. Accounting for about 16% of the state's population, API Americans continue to be among the fastest growing racial and ethnic groups in the state. Senator Harris is the first South Asian-American senator in history.
"The API Caucus is proud to endorse Kamala Harris for President," said API Caucus Chair David Chiu. "Kamala has proven herself to be a fearless leader who has consistently given a voice to the voiceless and championed our community as District Attorney, Attorney General, and United States Senator. She is a model for leadership, reform and pragmatism. Her vision coupled with policy proposals look to ensure continued economic growth for this nation and restore American leadership on the global stage."
"I have known Kamala for over 2 decades, and she is brilliant, principled, tough and charismatic," added Chiu, who worked as a fellow criminal prosecutor before her first election to public office. "She is committed to community through her enduring work to stand up for civil rights and fight for progressive causes."
The California API Legislative Caucus is made up of the Democratic API members of the California State Legislature. The caucus was established in 2001 to represent and advocate for the interests of the diverse API communities throughout California and increase Asian Pacific Islander participation and representation in all levels of government.
The caucus joins Governor Gavin Newsom, Lt. Governor Eleni Kounalakis, four other statewide constitutional officers, and five Members of Congress from California, including Congressman Ted Lieu, in backing Harris's candidacy. She also has received the endorsement of 21 members of the California State Senate Democratic Caucus, including Senate Pro Tem Toni Atkins, and six mayors of major California cities. California's early primary will be on March 3, 2020.
Newsom, Congresswoman Barbara Lee and labor and civil rights leader Dolores Huerta will serve as California Co-Chairs for Harris's campaign.
  