
    Pool Reports by Eugene Daniels, POLITICO 



Sent:
Reports:




March 25, 2023 17:08 EDT

VP Out of town Supplemental Pool #1 -- Gathered at JBA
Hey there, your pool and other travelers are tested, and are awaiting VP Harris at JBA for her trip to the continent of Africa.
As a reminder, the VP will be in Ghana, Zambia and Tanzania while there. Below is guidance from her office on the weekend schedule.
WEEKEND GUIDANCE FOR THE VICE PRESIDENT FOR SATURDAY, MARCH 25, 2023 & SUNDAY, MARCH 26, 2023
Saturday, March 25, 2023
At 6:10 PM ET, the Vice President and Second Gentleman will depart Joint Base Andrews en route to Lajes Air Base, Portugal. This departure from Joint Base Andrews will be pooled press.
Sunday, March 26, 2023
At 3:20 AM ADT, the Vice President and Second Gentleman will arrive at Lajes Air Base, Portugal for a re-fueling stop. This arrival will be closed press.
At 4:50 AM ADT, the Vice President and Second Gentleman will depart Lajes Air Base, Portugal en route to Accra, Ghana. This departure will be closed press.
At 12:15 PM GMT, the Vice President and Second Gentleman will arrive at Kotoka International Airport in Accra, Ghana.
Following, the Vice President and Second Gentleman will participate in an official welcome ceremony. This arrival and official welcome ceremony will be open to pre-credentialed media.
At 2:40 PM GMT, the Vice President and Second Gentleman will meet with the staff and families of U.S. Embassy Accra. This meeting will be closed press.


March 25, 2023 18:20 EDT

VP Supplemental Pool #2 — taking off
The vice president's motorcade arrived at JBA around 6:05.
The VP and the second gentleman got out, talked for a few minutes with the greeters (waiting for names) and walked up the stairs.
Waved to press but didn't stop to talk.
We are headed to Portugal for a refueling stop. The VP and SGOTUS came back to chat to press for a few minutes before we took off.
Plane took off just after 6:20.


March 26, 2023 03:30 AZOST

VP Supplemental Pool #3 -- Landed in Portugal
Air Force Two landed in Lajes Air Base, Portugal around 3:20 AM local time to refuel for the rest of the trip.
Our trip was pretty uneventful other than a bit of turbulence here and there. The Second Gentleman came back and chatted OTR. Senator Chria Coons, who is traveling with the VP, also came back to chat OTR.
We're scheduled to leave in just over an hour.


March 26, 2023 05:04 AZOST

VP Supplemental #4 -- Refueled and headed to Ghana
Air Force Two refueled and took off just after 5 AM local time from Portugal and headed to Accra.


March 26, 2023 12:11 GMT

VP Supplemental Travel Pool #5 -- landed in Ghana
Hello from Ghana!
AF2 landed in Accra at 12:08 local time. From the plane, we can see a pretty elaborate welcome for the VP already set up and can hear drums from the planr.
Will send color as soon as things happen.


March 26, 2023 12:53 GMY

VP Supplemental Pool #6 -- color from welcome
The vice president walked off the plane at 12:28.
There is a red carpet from the stairs of Air Force Two toward the riser where Harris will be speaking. On the ground, four women dancers in in Kente cloth dresses and headbands. Men playing drums are next to them, also in traditional outfits as well.
Harris was greeted by a large group of dignitaries (getting names soon).
A group of kids behind a barricade us on the right of where Harris will . They have flags from both Ghana and the United States. The kids are from Basics International -- an NGO here in Ghana.
The stage is covered in Kente cloth print with large flags from the United States and Ghana flanking the podium.
"Thank you for the warm welcome."
Said she was bringing greetings from Biden and FLOTUS.
"What an honor to be in Ghana and Africa. We are looking forward to this trip as a statement of the relationship and friendship between the people of the United States and those that live in the continent of Africa."
Talked about the median age in Africa being about 19 years: What that tells us about the growth and the opportunity. "I see in that great opportunity for the ...continent and the world."
Said that while she is here "I intend to do work that is focused on increasing investments on the continent."
Talked about her focuses on the Economic empowerment of women and girls, youth entrepreneurs, digital, adaptation to the effects of climate change.
"Look forward to meet with entroentuers, students and farmers"
"We have a lot of work ahead of us."
She walked over to the group of kids after speaking for about four minutes.
The motorcade began to roll out around 12:49.


March 26, 2023 13:32 GMT

VP Supplemental #7 -- Holding at hotel
One edit -- we are at the hotel, NOT the embassy.
Pool arrived to Harris' hotel around 1:15. Pool is holding in the hotel bar for bags. Pool did not see Harris but she will be meeting with staff soon.
Full Otter: https://otter.ai/u/DiL9s8X649-1yBnWl2uIojl2yrc


March 26, 2023 14:20 GMT

VP Supplemental #8-- more background from White House on arrival
On background from a White House official:

AF2 Landed at Kotoka International Airport in Accra, Ghana.
Upon arrival, the Vice President will greet with young Ghanaians affiliated with BASICS International, an NGO in Ghana founded by Pat Wilkins in 2000. BASICS provides education and resources to underserved communities. BASICS is a U.S. Embassy grants recipient for projects designed to strengthen ties between the U.S. and Ghana and engage underserved people with cultural and educational programs, among others. In 2023, the Embassy is supporting BASICS' chess program with exchanges including U.S. players. Website: https://basicsinternational.org/

 Greeters below:
Mahamudu Bawumia, The Vice President of the Republic of Ghana Virginia E. Palmer, The Ambassador of the U.S. to the Republic of Ghana Nicole Ann Chulick, Deputy Chief of Mission Alima Mahama, The Ambassador of the Republic of Ghana to the United StateShirley AyorkorBotchwey, The Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Ghana Henry Quartey, The Minister for Greater Accra Samuel Abu Jinapor, Minister for Lands and Natural Resources Kojo Oppong Nkrumah, The Minister for Information Mr. Augustine Blay, Secretary to the Vice President of Ghana Jules Armand, The Ambassador of France to the Republic of Ghana Harriet Thompson, The British High Commissioner for the Republic of Ghana Berenice Owens-Jones,The Australian High Commissioner to the Republic of Ghana Mochizuki Hisanobu, The Ambassador of Japan to the Republic of Ghana Anselm Ransford Sowah, The Canadian High Commissioner to the Republic of Ghana Bernard Ehui-Koutoua,Dean of Diplomatic Corps 



  