
    The American Rescue Plan (ARP) made essential investments to expand health care coverage and reduce costs for millions of Americans. The COVID-19 pandemic laid bare critical shortcomings in our health care and health insurance systems, and the ARP shored up vital gaps by providing more affordable coverage to millions of American, including many who lost their jobs over the last two years. Today, the Biden Administration is announcing a state-by-state breakdown of health insurance enrollment changes during this year’s Open Enrollment Period (OEP).
Total Enrollment in this year’s OEP was 14.5 million: During the 2022 OEP,14.5 million Americans enrolled in a Marketplace plan through HealthCare.Gov or a State-Based Marketplace.
Coverage increased by 21% due to the American Rescue Plan: The increase to 14.5 million people represented a 21% increase over 2021 due to the expansions of cost-saving subsidies in the American Rescue Plan.
Americans saved $800 per person last year, and thousands per family because of American Rescue Plan affordability measures. As a result of the American Rescue Plan (ARP), families were able to keep more money in their pockets, with actual savings of $67 per month per person in premiums – that’s more than $800 each year per person for groceries, child care, or other essentials.
5.8 million new consumers enrolled during the 2021 Special Enrollment and Open Enrollment periods, according to data from HHS. Between 2016 and 2019, 3.6 million Americans lost coverage.
The ARP reduced the cost of health care coverage by:

Ensuring that consumers eligible for financial assistance through premium tax credits had at least a couple plans to choose from that won’t cost more than 8.5% of their household income on their Marketplace plan premium per year.
Expanding the number of people eligible to save money on health care coverage by temporarily expanding eligibility for premium tax credits for those previously excluded from financial assistance.
Increasing affordability for low- and middle-income Americans by increasing the size of tax credits.
Addressing racial health inequities by expanding coverage and reducing costs. Increased affordability and health insurance coverage expansion allowed historically uninsured communities – especially those who have faced significant health disparities – to access coverage, thereby improving opportunities for health care during and beyond the COVID-19 pandemic.

Factsheet by State/Territory:

Alabama
Alaska
Arizona
Arkansas
California
Colorado
Connecticut
Delaware
Florida
Georgia
Hawaii
Idaho
Illinois
Indiana
Iowa
Kansas
Kentucky
Louisiana
Maine
Maryland
Massachusetts
Michigan
Minnesota
Mississippi
Missouri
Montana
Nebraska
Nevada
New Hampshire
New Jersey
New Mexico
New York
North Carolina
North Dakota
Ohio
Oklahoma
Oregon
Pennsylvania
Rhode Island
South Carolina
South Dakota
Tennessee
Texas
Utah
Vermont
Virginia
Washington
West Virginia
Wisconsin
Wyoming
District of Columbia

  