
    Pool Reports by Tessa Berenson, TIME



Sent:
Reports:




March 21, 202009:56 

In-town pool report #1: no public events on schedule today
Good morning, everyone. Happy Saturday. I am your in-town print pooler today. The president has no public events on his schedule, but there is a coronavirus task force briefing scheduled for 12 pm.
I will provide any updates throughout the day and, as always, let me know if you have any questions.



March 21, 202012:38 

In-town pool report #2: briefing at 12:45
We were just told overhead that the task force briefing will begin at 12:45.
They have set up video monitors behind the podium. Someone came through before the briefing to take the temperatures of everyone in the room-- the green stickers you may notice on reporters' shirts indicate their temperature was taken.
The briefing will be on camera, but your pooler will send anything notable from offscreen.



March 21, 202012:49 

In-town pool report #3: briefing pushed to 1 pm
Another overhead announcement -- briefing (originally scheduled for 12 pm) pushed to 1 pm



March 21, 202012:58 

In-town pool report #4: two minute warning to briefing
Two minute warning to the coronavirus task force briefing was called at 12:58 pm
A reminder that the briefing will be televised, so your pooler will not be sending quotes and updates from it.



March 21, 202014:19 

in-town pool report #5: POTUS leaves briefing
POTUS left the briefing room at 2:17 pm. Briefing is ongoing with Vice President Mike Pence, HUD Sec Ben Carson, Anthony Fauci, and others.



March 21, 202014:30 

In-town pool report #6: briefing over
The coronavirus task force briefing concluded at 2:28 pm. (President Trump had left the room a few minutes earlier, as noted in the previous pool report.)



March 21, 202015:09 

In-town pool report #7: Readout of Mexico call
Passing along from the White House:
Today, President Donald J. Trump spoke with President Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador of Mexico. The two leaders discussed the coronavirus pandemic and the close United States-Mexico cooperation on efforts to combat the virus, including their agreement on measures to reduce movement across the United States-Mexico border to essential travel only. President Trump and President Lopez Obrador agreed on the importance of preserving trade and critical services, regardless of travel restrictions.



March 21, 202015:40 

In-town pool report #8: travel/photo lid
We have a travel/photo lid at 3:39 pm.
Enjoy the rest of your weekend (with responsible social distancing)!



March 21, 202016:23 

In-town pool report #9: Veterans service organizations call readout
Passing along from the White House:
Today, President Donald J. Trump and Secretary of Veterans Affairs Robert Wilkie spoke by telephone with leaders of veterans service organizations about the whole-of-government response to COVID-19. The President thanked those devoted to serving America's 18 million veterans and assured them that his Administration will do whatever is necessary to win this war. The President noted his unprecedented actions to protect American veterans, including establishing 19 VA emergency operation centers throughout the country, restricting visitor access to VA community living centers, and maximizing the use of VA Telehealth. The President said that he and our country are inspired by our Nation's veterans to make shared sacrifices to defeat America's newest enemy.
The following participated in the call:
Trump AdministrationPresident Donald J. TrumpSecretary Robert Wilkie, Jr., Department of Veterans AffairsJennifer Korn, Deputy Assistant to the President and Deputy Director of the Office of Public Liaison
External ParticipantsDana Adkins, President and CEO, Military Officers Association of AmericaNate Anderson, Executive Director, Concerned Veterans of AmericaCarl Blake, Executive Director, Paralyzed Veterans of AmericaBob Carey, Chief Advocacy Officer, The Independence FundJoe Chenelly, Executive Director, AMVETSEric Eversole, President, Hiring Our Heroes – U.S. Chamber of CommerceB.J. Lawrence, Executive Director, Veterans of Foreign WarsMichael Linnington, CEO, Wounded Warrior ProjectJared Lyon, President and CEO, Student Veterans of AmericaChanin Nuntavong, Executive Director, The American LegionRandy Reese, Executive Director, Disabled American VeteransErnie Rivera, National Adjutant, Military Order of the Purple HeartSarah Verardo, CEO, The Independence FundRick Weidman, Executive Director, Vietnam Veterans of America




  