
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate three individuals and designate one individual to serve in his Administration:
The President intends to nominate Andrew C. von Eschenbach, MD, of Texas, to be Commissioner of Food and Drugs at the Department of Health and Human Services. Dr. von Eschenbach currently serves as Acting Commissioner of Food and Drugs and Director of the National Cancer Institute at the National Institutes of Health. Earlier in his career, he served as Executive Vice President and Chief Academic Officer of the University of Texas M.D. Anderson Cancer Center. Dr. von Eschenbach has previously served as Lieutenant Commander of the United States Navy Medical Corps. He received his bachelor's degree from St. Joseph's University and his MD from Georgetown University School of Medicine.
The President intends to nominate Mark C. Minton, of Florida, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Mongolia. Mr. Minton, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, currently serves as Deputy Chief of Mission in Seoul, South Korea. Prior to this, he served as Minister Counselor for Political Affairs at the U.S. Mission to the United Nations. Earlier in his career he served at the Embassy in Seoul as Minister-Counselor for Political Affairs and Director of Korean Affairs at the Department of State. Mr. Minton has also served in several positions in Japan, including as Consul-General in Sapporo. Mr. Minton received his bachelor's degree from Columbia University and his master's degree from Yale University.
The President intends to nominate John A. Rizzo, of the District of Columbia, to be General Counsel of the Central Intelligence Agency. Mr. Rizzo currently serves as Senior Deputy General Counsel of the Central Intelligence Agency. Prior to this, the 30-year CIA veteran served as Deputy General Counsel for Operations. Earlier in his career, he served as Deputy Director of the Office of Congressional Affairs. Mr. Rizzo received his bachelor's degree from Brown University and his JD from George Washington University.
The President intends to designate Thomas E. McNamara, of the District of Columbia, to be Program Manager of the Information Sharing Environment.
  