
    Pool Reports by Todd J. Gillman, The Dallas Morning News 



Sent:
Reports:




March 13, 202307:55 EDT

Pool report #1/remarks at 9am
The President's remarks in the Roosevelt Room on maintaining a resilient banking system and protecting our historic economic recovery will occur at 9:00 AM.



March 13, 202308:54 EDT

Pool #2/no South Lawn departure
Bad weather call. POTUS will motorcade to JBA after his banking remarks scheduled at 9am. Intown pool will accompany.



March 13, 202308:59 EDT

pool report #3/Roosevelt Room remarks - 2 minute warning
The President's remarks in the Roosevelt Room on maintaining a resilient banking system and protecting our historic economic recovery will occur at 9:00 AM.



March 13, 202309:10 EDT

Pool report #4/POTUS banking remarks
POTUS entered the Roosevelt Room at 9am. He spoke for 5 minutes and left without acknowledging questions.
He addressed the federal actions regarding Silicon Valley Bank and Signature Bank.
"Unfortunately the last administration rolled back regulations...
"Americans can rest assured that our banking system is safe. Your deposits are safe."
"No losses will be borne by the taxpayers."
"Investors in the banks will not be protected...."
Questions shouted and ignored on why this happened, whether there will be a ripple effect and whether other banks may fail.
Pool is getting into vans now for motorcade to JBA.



March 13, 202309:40 EDT

Pool report #5/motorcade rolling for JBA
President Biden is heading to Joint Base Andrews and thence to California.
He emerged from the Oval Office at 9:38am and got into his black SUV.
The motorcade rolled from the South Lawn at 9:39.
For the historical record: It's a dreary morning in DC on this third anniversary of then President Trump declaring a national emergency at the outset of the COVID-19 pandemic. Overcast and 41 degrees, with a pink bloom on some of the dogwoods.



March 13, 202310:04 EDT

Pool report #6/Arrival at JBA
Uneventful motorcade through the damp streets of the capital. President Biden arrived at Air Force One at 10:03am.
Traveling with the President via motorcade en route to Joint Base Andrews:
Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations
Ben LaBolt, Assistant to the President & Director of Communications
Handing off to the travel pool, which I see under the wing. Will try to provide a heads up for the in-flight gaggle en route California.



March 13, 202314:31 EDT

pool report #7/gaggle started
Karine's inflight gaggle en route California started six minutes ago.




 
Pool Reports below by Emily Goodin, Daily Mail 



Sent:
Reports:




March 13, 202309:22 EDT

POTUS travel pool #1 - Sullivan to gaggle with KJP
Good morning from JBA, where the pool is gathering.
Jake Sullivan will join today's gaggle aboard AF1.
From the White House: Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre will be joined by National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan for todays gaggle en route to San Diego.



March 13, 202310:08 EDT

WH travel pool #2 - JBA departure
Motorcade pulled up to AF1 at 10:03 am.
POTUS emerged with Natalie Biden. He appeared to have two phones in his hand. He introduced her to the Air Force officer who greeted them.
He paused as if he would come over to talk to pool but then did not.
He and Natalie boarded at 10:06 am.
It's a five and half hour flight with the KJP/Sullivan gaggle expected near the end.
From WH:
Greeting the President upon arrival at Joint Base Andrews:
Colonel Matthew Jones, Commander 89th Airlift Wing
AF1 will be wheels up shortly.



March 13, 202312:07 PDT

WH travel pool #3 - San Diego arrival
Air Force One was wheels up JBA at 10:15 am and wheels down North Island Naval Air Station, San Diego, at 12:05 pm (all times are now local, which is -3 Eastern).
Besides the gaggle, there were no visitors to the press section.
AF1 is taxing to a stop. Mtk....



March 13, 202312:25 PDT

WH travel pool #4 - POTUS deplaned and motorcade rolling
POTUS, Ashley Biden and Natalie Biden deplaned at 12:19 pm.
POTUS introduced the two to his greeters and they all got in the beast. He didn't take questions.
At 12:24 pm the motorcade is rolling to the trilateral meeting with Prime Minister Anthony Albanese of Australia and Prime Minister Rishi Sunak of the United Kingdom.
Also from the WH:
Greeting the President upon arrival at North Island Naval Air Station:
Vice Admiral Roy Kitchener, Commander, Naval Surface Forces and Commander, Naval Surface ForceCaptain Charles McKissick, Commanding Officer, Naval Base Coronado
Traveling with the President aboard Air Force One en route to North Island Naval Air Station:
Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security AffairsAnnie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office OperationsVinay Reddy, Assistant to the President & Director of SpeechwritingKarine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press SecretaryEmmy Ruiz, Assistant to the President & Director of Political Strategy & OutreachBen LaBolt, Assistant to the President & Director of CommunicationsAmbassador Victoria Nuland, Under Secretary for Political Affairs, U.S. Department of StateAmbassador Rufus Gifford, Chief of Protocol, U.S. Department of StateKurt Campbell, Deputy Assistant to the President & National Security Council Coordinator for the Indo-PacificErika Moritsugu, Deputy Assistant to the President & AA and NHPI Senior LiaisonAmanda Sloat, Special Assistant to the President & National Security Council Senior Director for EuropeTravis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip DirectorAriana Berengaut, Senior Advisor to the National Security AdvisorJim Miller, National Security Council Coordinator for Australia – United Kingdom – United States (AUKUS)John Kirby, National Security Council Coordinator for Strategic Communications



March 13, 202312:59 PDT

WH travel pool #5 - Naval Base Point Loma arrival
Motorcade arrive at the Naval Base Point Loma at 12:57 pm.
Pool did not see POTUS upon arrival.
There were a few dozen protesters outside the airport with Trump 2024 signs. Along the route people filmed the motorcade on their phones and waved. Outside the naval base were protesters holding signs saying "Bring Ridge Home" in reference to Naval Lt. Alkonis.
It's 60 degrees and sunny. Motorcade had a lovely drive over the Coronado Bridge with blue waters, warships, sailboats and the San Diego skyline visible. Lots of warships visible on drive into naval base.
Pool is holding to connect with our British and Aussie counterparts. Then all three pools will go in for a spray with the three leaders.
More tk...



March 13, 202313:18 PDT

WH travel pool #6 - trilateral spray
At 1:12 pm the American, British and Australian pools were brought into a room with the three leaders.
POTUS sat at a high topped table with Prime Minister Anthony Albanese of Australia to his right and Prime Minister Rishi Sunak of the United Kingdom to his left. The various delegations set behind them.
There was a large AUKUS sign and the three countries flags on it.
The three leaders were having a quiet conversation when pools entered.
They made no remarks. POTUS was asked if the US can be relied upon to deliver on this deal.
"We can always be relied upon," he said.
He didn't respond to any other questions. Pools were pulled at 1:14 pm.



March 13, 202313:36 PDT

WH travel pool 7 - The delegations and POTUS arrival at remarks
Pool is holding ahead of the leaders' remarks - which are scheduled for 2 pm local and 5 pm eastern
Remarks will air on https://www.whitehouse.gov/live/
The Beast pulled up alongside the press hold at 1:33 pm but POTUS got out the other side - not visible to press - and went into a building.
It is quite the scenic venue. Remarks are taking place outdoors on a pier with the US, British and Australian flags in the backroad. Also visible in the water off the pier, the destroyer USS Sterett with colorful flags floating in the breeze; red, white and blue bunting and sailors lined up along the decks at attention.
Also visible the USS Charlotte and USS Missouri - two Virginia class submarines.
Pool will endeavor to get a two minute warning on the remarks.
Meanwhile, from the WH:
The President is participating in a trilateral meeting with Prime Minister Anthony Albanese of Australia and Prime Minister Rishi Sunak of the United Kingdom.
U.S. DelegationThe PresidentT.H. Lloyd Austin, Secretary of DefenseT.H. Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security AffairsT.H. Carlos Del Toro, Secretary of the NavyT.H. Victoria Nuland, Under Secretary of State for Political AffairsAdmiral Mike Gilday, Chief of Naval OperationsT.H. Kurt Campbell, Deputy Assistant to the President and Coordinator for the Indo-Pacific, National Security CouncilT.H. Jim Miller, Coordinator for AUKUS, National Security CouncilT.H. Mara Karlin, Acting Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for PolicyT.H. Amanda Sloat, Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for Europe, National Security CouncilAdmiral James Caldwell, Director of the Naval Nuclear Propulsion ProgramMr. Abraham Denmark, Senior Advisor to the Secretary of Defense on AUKUSMr. Kaleb Redden, Deputy Coordinator for AUKUS, National Security Council
U.K DelegationT.R.H. Rishi Sunak, MP, Prime Minister of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern IrelandH.E. Dame Karen Pierce DCMG, His Majesty's Ambassador to the United StatesSir Tim Barrow GCMG LVO MBE, National Security AdvisorAdmiral Sir Ben Key KCB CBE ADC, First Sea Lord and Chief of Naval StaffColonel Jaimie Norman, Prime Ministers Military AttachéMs. Fiona Mcilwham, Private SecretaryMr. John Bew, Foreign Affairs AdvisorMs. Madelaine Mcternan CB, Director General NuclearMs. Amber De Botton, Director of CommunicationsMs. Georgie Barker, Deputy Head of News
Australia DelegationT.H. Anthony Albanese MP, Prime Minister of AustraliaH.E. The Hon Arthur Sinodinos AO, Australian Ambassador to the United StatesMr. Tim Gartrell, Chief of Staff, Office of the Prime MinisterProfessor Glyn Davis AC, Secretary, Department of the Prime Minister and CabinetVice Admiral Mark Hammond, Chief of NavyDr. Philippa Brant, Senior Adviser, National Security, Office of the Prime MinisterMs. Liz Fitch, Media Director & Principal Press Secretary, Office of the Prime MinisterMr. Scott Dewar, Deputy Secretary, International and Security, Department of the Prime Minister and CabinetRear Admiral Ian Murray, Head of Defence StaffMs. Alex Kelton, First Assistant Secretary International Policy and Agreements, Defence Nuclear Powered Submarine Taskforce



March 13, 202313:38 PDT

WH travel pool #8 - 2 min warning for remarks
At 1:38 pm we have a two minute warning



March 13, 202314:10 PDT

WH travel pool #9 - remarks wrapping/color from speeches
Per the White House, POTUS, PM Sunak and PM
Albanese all rode together in the beast from the trilateral meeting site to the speech site.
Crowd count is about 150 per an official.
At 2:08 pm as remarks are wrapping, pool is being pulled.
From the WH:
In attendance for the President's remarks on the Australia – United Kingdom – United States (AUKUS) Partnership Naval Base Point Loma:
Foreign dignitaries, U.S Government officials, and U.S. Military personnel
Speaking ProgramThe PresidentPrime Minister Anthony Albanese of AustraliaPrime Minister Rishi Sunak of the United Kingdom
Next up is the bilat between POTUS and PM Sunak.



March 13, 202314:49 PDT

WH travel pool #10 - Sunak bilateral and news
Pool was brought into the POTUS bilat with PM Sunak at 2:40 pm.
At the end of his remarks, PM Sunak invited POTUS to Northern Ireland.
And POTUS took a few questions.
Asked if he's going to Northern Ireland. "It's my intention to go to Northern Ireland and the republic," POTUS said.
Asked if he's worried China will see AUKUS as aggression, POTUS said "no." Asked if he'll speak to Xi soon, he said "yes." Asked if he'll tell us when they'll talk, he said "no."
More from spray to come....
As pool waited outside the meeting location, Defense Secretary Austin walked by as did US Ambassador to Australia Caroline Kennedy. The Beast pulled up behind us. Pool didn't see POTUS enter bilat location.



March 13, 202315:07 PDT

WH travel pool 10A - More POTUS/Sunak bilat remarks
Here are the remarks from the POTUS/PM Sunak bilat. As always, please check against the official transcript:
POTUS: "First of all, I want to welcome him to California. He's a Stanford man and still has a home here in California. If I'm nice to him maybe he'll invite me to his home in California (PM Sunak chuckled). All kidding aside I think it's a historic day for our countries. I think it's not us. I think it's the circumstances that will go down in history – help put together an organization, three nations to help sustain the peace and security in the Indo-Pacific. And I really believe that."
More POTUS: "We're gonna talk about a lot of things today including our joint commitment to the situation with Russia's brutal invasion in Ukraine. And we'll talk about our talking about common vision and values and figure out where we can cooperate more."
PM Sunak: "Well, thanks, Mr. President. It's great to be back in California so thank you for having me but particularly to announce, as you describe, rightly, probably the most consequential multilateral defense partnership since the one that our two countries did, some generations ago. And we both talked about earlier, there never has been there been a more important time for allies like ours to come together. And we shared the same values. It's right that we work together given the security picture around the world. And that's what we've always done. We sit next to each other on the Security Council, we are two of the biggest spenders in NATO. And there's no problem that the world has seen that isn't one that the two of us working together have not been able to try and address. So it's great pleasure to be here and I look forward to our conversations and also importantly, we invite you to Northern Ireland, which hopefully you will be able to do – so we can commemorate the anniversary of the Good Friday Agreement. I know it's something very special and personal to you. We'd love to have you."
POTUS: "Twenty five years. It seems like yesterday. Like yesterday. Thank you."
Question: Are you going to Northern Ireland?
POTUS: "It's my intention to go to Northern Ireland and the republic."
Question: Given President Xi's comments about encirclement, are you concerned he may take this agreement as aggression?
POTUS: "No."
Asked if he'll speak to Xi soon, POTUS said "yes." Asked if he'll tell us when they'll talk, he said "no."



March 13, 202316:18 PDT

WH travel pool report #11 -- Albanese bilatReport by Andrew Restuccia, The Wall Street Journal 
Hi -- pitching in for print pooler Emily Goodin.
Shortly before 7 pm local time, the pool was brought into the bilat between POTUS and Australian Prime Minister Anthony Albanese. About five minutes later, the pool was escorted out.
Each leader made brief remarks at the top. POTUS spoke very softly and we could barely hear him.
QUESTIONS:
POTUS took a couple questions, though he didn't make any news.
Q: Biden was asked whether the AUKUS agreement could survive a future isolationist U.S. president. POTUS said, 'Yes."
Q: Why did you choose Australia as a partner?
A: Biden: "They're totally reliable"
Q: Did you discuss banks with either the UK or Australian PM?
A: "I didn't ask to borrow any money." [note: Biden smiled when he said this and was joking]
And here's a brief summary of POTUS' opening comments:
On the AUKUS subs deal:
"This is a really consequential agreement and I think it's going to make a really big difference."
"It's going to be a game-changer in my view."
He said the U.S. and Australia would work together on climate change, regional stability, and helping Ukraine
On AUKUS, he said, in an apparent reference to China: "I don't view what we're doing as a challenge to anybody."
And here's the PM's remarks:
He said he looked forward to having POTUS in Australia for the Quad summit in May.
"We've been in very regular contact and developed a personal friendship and relationship and trust."
On the AUKUS subs deal: "What we've really done is to demonstrate a next chapter in our history together."
"We have stood side by side and today I think it is very important, very significant...that you have agreed for just the second time in history to share this technology."
He said he viewed climate change as a national security issue, like POTUS does.
He called taking action on climate change "the entry ticket to credibility in the Pacific."
He also praised the Inflation Reduction Act for its investments in climate change.
.......
Pool is not holding and awaiting our movement to tonight's fundraiser. More soon.



March 13, 202317:25 PDT

WH travel pool #12 - motorcade rolling
The motorcade is rolling as of 5:24 pm.
Pool did not see POTUS load but did see the Australian PM get in his motorcade and drive off ahead of the American delegation.
Next stop is the San Diego airport and then helos to Del Mar for a fundraiser in Rancho Santa Fe.
More tk...



March 13, 202317:51 PDT

WH travel pool #13 - San Diego airport
Motorcade arrived at San Diego International Airport landing zone at 5:37 pm.
Lots of people along the motorcade route with their cell phones and their dogs. There was an occasional Trump sign and there were lots of Biden supporters. As the press vans rolled by one woman, she yelled "f*** you media" and gave the middle finger.
POTUS exited the Beast at 5:34 pm. Natalie was behind him.
Biden spent a few minutes talking to his greeters before slipping on his aviators and boarding Marine One at 5:45 pm.
Pool is boarding Nighthawks and won't see Marine One take off. Wheels up shortly for Del Mar.
From WH:
Greeting the President upon arrival at San Diego International Airport Landing Zone:
Rep. Sara Jacobs (CA-51)Mayor Todd Gloria, San Diego, CaliforniaChairwoman Nora Vargas, San Diego County Board of SupervisorsChairman Cody Martinez, Sycuan Band of Kumeyaay Indians
Traveling with the President aboard Marine One en route to Del Mar, California:
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of StaffEmmy Ruiz, Assistant to the President & Director of Political Strategy & Outreach



March 13, 202318:11 PDT

WH travel pool 14 - Del Mar arrival
Marine One landed at the Del Mar Landing Zone at 6:06 pm.
POTUS exited Marine One at 6:09 pm. Natalie Biden was behind him. They walked across the field and into the Beast.
Motorcade is rolling at 6:11 pm to the fundraiser in Rancho Santa Fe.



March 13, 202318:30 PDT

WH travel pool report #15 — arrival at fundraiserReport by Andrew Restuccia, The Wall Street Journal 
At 6:22 pm, the motorcade came to a stop in a well-appointed neighborhood in Rancho Santa Fe, which is about 25 miles north of San Diego.
We didn't see POTUS exit the motorcade and we don't have a clear view of the fundraiser location. From our vantage point, we can see a gate and a long driveway. Pool is now holding in the vans until we go into the fundraiser.
Zillow estimates that the six bedroom, eight bath home where the fundraiser will take place is worth more than $8 million.
The motorcade ride was uneventful. Lots of onlookers holding up their phones. Along the way, we passed golf courses and several palatial homes.
More info on the fundraiser from a DNC official:
"On Monday, President Biden will hold a fundraising event in Rancho Santa Fe, California, which will have approximately 40 attendees, and raise $1 million for the Democratic National Committee and the Democratic Grassroots Victory Fund."



March 13, 202318:36 PDT

WH travel pool report #16 — photo lineReport by Andrew Restuccia, The Wall Street Journal 
From the White House:
Participating in a photoline with the President at a reception for the Democratic National Committee in Rancho Santa Fe, California:
Rep. Scott Peters (CA-50)



March 13, 202319:35 PDT

WH spool report #17 — Biden fundraiser remarksReport by Andrew Restuccia, The Wall Street Journal 
Pool entered the fundraiser at 6:43 pm local time. Before arriving, we walked through the grounds of the estate, past a large pool, tennis court and guest house.
About 40 guests are seated on folding chairs and couches.
POTUS arrived at 6:45 pm. He was introduced by Allan Camaisa, per the White House. Mr. Camaisa held up a copy of Biden's book, "Promise Me, Dad"
Biden began speaking at 6:47 pm:
POTUS thanked the guests for coming. The president told the story of his late son Beau. He mentioned that his granddaughter Natalie was at the event and planned to attend Penn in the fall.
"It never goes away. It becomes part of you," POTUS said of the feeling of loss he endured after the death of his son, adding that he often asks himself, "What would Beau do?"
POTUS thanked Rep. Scott Peters for coming and praised him.
Biden told the story of his run for office in 1972.
After winning his senate race, he said he was often asked what his secret was:
"The secret you have to communicate to people is…what is worth losing over?"
Biden then talked about the 2020 election, adding, "Finally even Fox News is admitting I won."
"I think the general public has moved to a place where they're generally worried about our democracy."
"I think the American public is a lot more united on critical things than we give them credit for."
He touted his record on the economy and jobs.
"I'm a capitalist. I'm not anti-corporation."
POTUS recounted the reason he decided to run for president in 2020: to restore the soul of the country. And he told the story of Charlottesville and how it inspired him to run.
He recalled Trump's quote about there being very fine people on both sides. "That's when I decided that I had to do something."
He told the story about his grandchildren calling a family meeting and encouraged him to run for president in 2020.
He said he went to his grandson Hunter's birthday party last night.
He told a story about Hunter several years ago showing him a photo of POTUS with his arm around one of his grandkids. The photo had a caption that read: "Biden molests another child."
"He said, 'We know it's going to be ugly,'" recounting his grandson Hunter's words. POTUS said that's when he decided to run in 2020.
Biden then touted his legislative record, pointing to the IRA and its climate investments.
He talked about efforts to defend Ukraine and his decision to declassify intelligence about Russia planning to invade Ukraine.
He touted his efforts to improve gun safety and lauded the CHIPS Act. He talked about CHIPS investments in Ohio and New York.
"It's going to be all over the country, and we're going to put people to work."
He then moved on to the infrastructure law. "How can you be the leading country in the world with a second-rate infrastructure?" He said the infrastructure law will create thousands of jobs.
"My generic point is simple: we have to have the best infrastructure in the world if we're gonna have the best economy in the world."
"The point I'm making is: there's so much in our power that we can do."
"We cut the deficit by a larger number than any president has ever in history."
He said his budget, which he proposed last week, reflects his values.
"We just have very different views, this new MAGA Republican group."
"This is not your father's Republican Party."
He criticized the House Freedom Caucus' budget proposal. The president said he had made progress on drug prices and negotiating with Medicare, and pointed to the $35 cap on insulin for Medicare recipients.
"What we're going to do is make sure they have to make their case," he said of Republican spending-cut proposals.
As the speech ended, he pointed to his cancer moonshot plan. He called for funding for ARPA-H.
He then talked about Jimmy Carter and his health problems. "I spent time with Jimmy Carter and it's finally caught up with him, but they found a way to keep him going for a lot longer than they anticipated because they found a breakthrough."
"He asked me to do his eulogy. Excuse me, I shouldn't say that."
"I just think we have to remember, it's never been a good bet to bet against America and I think it's time to finish the job. The stakes are too high for our democracy, for our economy, for our standing in the world."
"If you take a look at the data, the vast majority of the American people agree."
He told the story of MTG yelling "liar" at his SOTU speech.
"The last time somebody did it, they got censured."
He noted that Republicans during the speech objected to his assertion that they wanted to cut entitlements.
"I hope they keep the commitment and not cut it."
At 7:26 pm, Biden completed his remarks and the pool was escorted out. As we were leaving, it appeared that POTUS began taking questions from the audience.
From the White House:
The President is participating in a reception for the Democratic National Committee in Rancho Santa Fe, California.
Speaking ProgramAllan Camaisa, IntroducerThe President



March 13, 202319:59 PDT

WH travel pool #18 - departing fundraiser
Motorcade is leaving site of the fundraiser at 7:59 pm.
Pool did not see POTUS load.
We had a bad weather call so we're motorcading to the RON.
That is our next stop. More TK...



March 13, 202320:37 PDT

WH travel pool #19 - RON arrival and lid
Motorcade arrived at the RON at 8:36 pm.
At 8:38 pm we have a travel photo lid!
Thanks to co-pooler Andrew Restuccia for taking on some events on a busy pool day. And thanks to the rest of this great pool for their help on a long day.
More tomorrow!




  