
    Mitt Romney today announced the support of former Pennsylvania Governor and Secretary of Homeland Security Tom Ridge.
"It is an honor to have Governor Ridge's support," said Mitt Romney. "There are few leaders who have such a distinguished record of service to our country. As a combat soldier in Vietnam, he fought with bravery and distinction. As a Congressman and Governor, he was a tireless servant for Pennsylvania. And as Secretary of Homeland Security, he kept our country safe from those who wished to harm us. I am humbled to have his endorsement and welcome Governor Ridge's counsel."
Announcing his support, Governor Ridge said, "Having spent most my life in public service, as a soldier, as a Congressman, as a Governor of Pennsylvania, as a White House official, and as a Secretary of Homeland Security, I've met accomplished and strong leaders in my life. Mitt Romney is one of them. He would bring to the presidency an extraordinary set of skills. His record of accomplishment in the private sector is matched by his achievements as Governor of Massachusetts and his work saving the 2002 Winter Olympics in Salt Lake City. In that latter role, he demonstrated a genuine ability to command in facing the security problems that cropped up for the Games in the aftermath of the 9/11 attacks. Given the economic problems that America faces, including Pennsylvania, where high unemployment continues to cause such hardship, his experience turning around failing enterprises makes him precisely what the country needs. I'm proud to endorse Mitt's candidacy and will work hard to help him recapture the White House this coming November."
Background on Tom Ridge:
Tom Ridge served as the First Secretary of Homeland Security from 2003 to 2005. Before that, he served as the first Assistant to the President for Homeland Security, tapped for the newly created position in the days following the attacks of September 11, 2001. Secretary Ridge served as Governor of Pennsylvania from 1995 to 2001 and served in the U.S. House of Representatives from 1983 to 1995. Secretary Ridge is a former Assistant District Attorney and a decorated U.S. Army combat veteran.
  