
    "Fiscal conservatives are rightly appalled at Rick Santorum's record on spending issues. All too often, he was content to play the same old Washington games by taking one 'for the team' instead of standing on principle. Republicans are looking for a proven leader who can take on Barack Obama and ultimately get our spending, debt, and deficits under control." —Ryan Williams, Romney Campaign Spokesman
Before "Going Washington," Senator Spendtorum Urged His Colleagues To Remember Why They Were Sent To D.C. In The First Place:
Santorum Talked Of The Importance Of Politicians Remembering The Issues They Ran On. SANTORUM: "I know what got me here. I know the principles that I stand for ... but it's important to keep that perspective as a freshman member, sophomore member, and beyond, as to what you ran on, what the people were telling you when they voted for you and to bring that down here and not to just fold up and go home." (CSPAN's "New Members Roundtable," 12/13/90)
After "Going Washington," Senator Spendtorum Abandoned His Pledge To Get Spending Under Control:
Shortly After Arriving In D.C., Santorum Said He Was Willing To "Stand Up And Vote Against Popular Programs Back Home" To Get The Budget Under Control. SANTORUM: "You can talk about all the make-work programs you want, we are going to stifle growth in this country unless we balance this budget and get it under control. And I am — I will stand up and vote against maybe popular programs back home, but you got to do it because I care about my 9 month daughter, Elizabeth to have the same opportunities and the same America I grew up with." (CSPAN's "First Year Impressions Of Congress," 1/29/92)

Santorum: "This Is Same Old Complaint. We Don't Like Pork-Barrel Spending, Except, Of Course, If It's To Benefit Me And That's The Beauty Of The Way The System Continues To Perpetuate." (CSPAN's "First Year Impressions Of Congress," 1/29/92)

During His Lengthy Career In Congress, Senator Santorum Brought Over $1 Billion In Pork-Barrel Spending Back To Pennsylvania. "In all, Taxpayers for Common Sense estimated, Mr. Santorum helped secure more than $1 billion in earmarks during his Senate career, which stretched from 1995 through 2006." (Michael Luo and Mike McIntire, "Donors Gave As Santorum Won Earmarks," The New York Times, 1/15/12)


    "Santorum Was A Prolific Supporter Of Earmarks, Having Requested Billions Of Dollars For Pork Projects In Pennsylvania While He Was In Congress." ("2012 Presidential White Paper #4: Former Senator Rick Santorum," Club For Growth, 6/6/11)
  


Santorum: "I'm Very Proud Of All The Earmarks I Put In Bills. I'll Defend Earmarks." (Fox News' "Hannity," 2/26/09)

After "Going Washington," Senator Spendtorum Was No Longer Troubled By Budget Deficits:
After Winning Election To The House, Santorum Said His Major Legislative Goal Was To Reform The Budget And Get The Deficit Under Control. MODERATOR: "Rick Santorum, what's your major legislative goal?" SANTORUM: "Well, I think the focus again of what the people were telling me during the campaign is that we really need budget reform. We really need to get our situation under control here as far as the deficit. So that is something that I'm principally concerned about." (CSPAN's "New Members Roundtable," 12/13/90)

Santorum: "I Really Ran As A Reformer — Someone Who Wanted To See Some Structural Changes, Someone Who Wanted To See Budgetary Responsibility." (CSPAN's "New Members Roundtable," 12/13/90)

After A Decade In D.C., Senator Santorum Had A Different Stance: "I Came To The House As A Real Deficit Hawk, But I Am No Longer A Deficit Hawk." "Confronted with projected deficits until fiscal 2007, senior GOP lawmakers are backing away from long-standing rhetoric about the government's duty to live within its means. 'I came to the House as a real deficit hawk, but I am no longer a deficit hawk,' said Sen. Rick Santorum (R-Pa.). 'I'll tell you why. I had to spend the surpluses. Deficits make it easier to say no.'" (Hans Nichols, "Leadership Lines Up With Deficit Doves," The Hill, 2/5/03)
After "Going Washington," Senator Spendtorum No Longer Felt Bound By His Pledge Against Pay Raises:
Santorum Won His First House Campaign, In Part, "By Attacking His [Opponent's] Support For The Congressional Pay Raise." "By late evening, only three House Democratic incumbents had lost, Dyson of Maryland, Rep. Doug Walgren of Pennsylvania and Rep. Robert Kastenmeier of Wisconsin. Walgren's opponent, attorney Rick Santorum, won by attacking his support for the congressional pay raise and his acceptance of special interest money — a theme used by many challengers." ("Democrats' Grip On Congress Increases," Los Angeles Times, 11/7/90)


    Santorum: "Whatever The Salary Is When I Walk Into Office On January Whatever, That's What I'll Take. I Won't Take One Additional Penny For As Long As I'm In Congress." ("No Raises For Rick," The Associated Press, 11/8/90)
  


Santorum: "Members Do Not Seem Willing To Voluntarily Limit Their Salaries Like I Have, Vowing Never Accept Any More Salary Than What Is Provided Upon Taking Office." "'The public is fed up with members of Congress having no limits on their ability to increase their salaries,' Santorum said. 'And members do not seem willing to voluntarily limit their salaries like I have, vowing never accept any more salary than what is provided upon taking office.'" (Rep. Rick Santorum, Press Release, 8/1/91)

Club For Growth: "[Santorum] Supported Raising Congressional Pay At Least Three Times, In 2001, 2002, And 2003." ("2012 Presidential White Paper #4: Former Senator Rick Santorum," Club For Growth, Accessed On 12/27/11)
What Made Senator Spendtorum "Go Washington"?
Santorum Said One Of The First Things He Learned — As Early As His Freshman Orientation, Two Decades Ago — Was The Unparalleled Importance Of Getting Re-Elected. SANTORUM: "One of the first things they began to teach us, even at the bipartisan orientation, is [to] get re-elected. Work on re-election. Your first job here is to get re-elected because you're not going to be able to accomplish anything unless you're back here again. That really is the way the institution functions down here. ... And so, we really do, from the first day, start focusing on two years from now." (CSPAN's "New Members Roundtable," 12/13/90)
  