
    First Lady Melania Trump arrived in Seattle, Washington this afternoon for a visit to Microsoft Corporation Headquarters to move her Be Best agenda forward.
Chief Executive Officer of Microsoft, Satya Nadella, greeted Mrs. Trump upon arrival and escorted her to a conference room for a showcase and discussion with key leaders including Microsoft's President Brad Smith and Microsoft's Chief Financial Officer Amy Hood.
Three kiosks were set up around the room, each one addressing a portion of Mrs. Trump's Be Best online safety pillar. The first kiosk showcased important controls parents can program on XBOX gaming systems to help manage their family's digital life. The presentation also included how to manage a child's viewing content and how to set time limits on devices.
The second kiosk displayed Microsoft's latest technology development with the goal of making XBOX accessible to everyone. The Adaptive Controller system empowers users who have limited mobility with the same opportunities as their peers – allowing everyone to enjoy the same gaming experience.
The final kiosk detailed Microsoft's ongoing efforts to improve child safety in this ever-expanding digital culture. Microsoft demonstrated to the First Lady that they are actively working to address challenges in line with the First Lady's Be Best initiative and discussed their ongoing efforts to provide parents and families with the latest tools and information to protect children online and spread awareness about the importance of teaching children digital civility.
"I am impressed with Microsoft's dedication to protecting children online and promoting digital civility," stated First Lady Melania Trump. "The technology being designed not only includes safety features but also accessibility for all – a very exciting and new opportunity for many with limited mobility. I am looking forward to using Be Best to promote any digital programs that make online safety and digital civility a priority in today's technology-driven world."
Prior to departing, Mrs. Trump talked with key Microsoft leaders on the importance of online safety for children and parents
  