
    Lewis Libby, Chief of Staff to Vice President Cheney, announced that Candida "Candi" Wolff was named Assistant to the Vice President for Legislative Affairs. Wolff is serving as a liaison between the Vice President and Congress and is responsible for managing the legislative affairs office. Previously, Ms. Wolff served for a year as Deputy Assistant to the Vice President focusing on Senate legislative affairs. Ms. Wolff also served as Deputy Senate Liaison for the Bush-Cheney Transition and as Policy Director for the 2000 Republican Platform Committee.
"Candi has brought years of experience and a true understanding of the Congress to our office. I have enjoyed working with Candi and look forward to working with her in her new role as we enter an important legislative year," said Vice President Cheney.
"Candi and I have worked closely together when she worked on Capitol Hill and over the past year as part of the Administration. She brings knowledge, enthusiasm, dedication, and significant institutional knowledge to her new post. I know our offices will continue to work as a seamless team," said Nicholas E. Calio, Assistant to the President for Legislative Affairs.
Prior to working for Vice President Cheney, Ms. Wolff spent eight years in the Senate. From 1996-2000 she served as Deputy Staff Director to the Senate Republican Policy Committee. Wolff also served as Legislative Counsel to the Senate Steering Committee and as Tax Counsel to former Senator Malcolm Wallop (R-WY). Prior to working on Capitol Hill, Wolff spent three years as an associate in the Public Policy and Law section of Akin, Gump, Strauss, Hauer and Feld, LLP.
Ms. Wolff received her J.D. with high honors in 1989 from the National Law Center at George Washington University. She graduated cum laude from Mount Holyoke College in 1986 with a Bachelor of Arts degree in mathematics and political science. Wolff is a member of both the Connecticut and District of Columbia Bars.
Ms. Wolff is married to Mark Roger Wolff and resides in Virginia with their two daughters, ages 4 and 2.
  