
    Pool Reports by Niels Lesniewski, CQ Roll Call 



Sent:
Reports:




March 10, 202117:04

VP pool report #1: Fudge swearing-in
The VP pool has gathered for the swearing-in ceremony for Marcia Fudge as secretary of Housing and Urban Development, expected at 5 p.m.We are waiting in the South Court Auditorium.
Fudge was confirmed by the Senate earlier today, and she resigned her House seat shortly thereafter.



March 10, 202117:39

VP pool report #2 -- comments on American Rescue Plan
Vice President Harris responded to a shouted question at the end of the event about the American Rescue Plan passage, check quotes against video and transcript.
"I have to tell you, Joe Biden made this happen. And it is a very important day for the children of America, the families of America and small businesses. It is a very important day in terms of what we're now going to be able to do to make sure that everyone has access to the help they need," the VP said.
"People are just trying to survive."
"And, and I give full credit to Joe Biden, because this was his vision. And he really put a lot of work and thought into this, to do what this will do in terms of intergenerational impact, lifting half of American children out of poverty, It's a big deal. So thank you."
The pool had re-entered the South Court Auditorium at 5:09 p.m. while VP Harris was on stage, with HUD Secretary Marcia Fudge and family members appearing via video on a big screen.
Per the White House, participants were:
Sec. Marcia FudgeMarian Saffold (Mother)Robert Saffold (step father)Taleya Fudge (niece)
As the pool entered, Fudge was relaying to the vice president that she was not there in person because her mother's 90th birthday is next month.
"Oh my goodness, I wouldn't have said a day over 80," Harris said to some laughter. "Oh, congratulations."
The vice president and the secretary then proceeded to the oath of office and an exchange of greetings before the video feed ended. The VP had begun to exit the stage but returned to take the one question.




  