
    
From defending the families of Flint and Sandy Hook to discussing religion and race, it was quite a night.
Hillary Clinton took the stage in Flint, Michigan, for the seventh debate of the Democratic primary. Here were her best moments of the night.
She continued to speak up for the people of Flint.


She pointed out a key difference between the two candidates on stage: One voted to fund the bailout that saved the auto industry—and one didn't.


She opened up about her faith.


  " I pray very specifically for people whom I know by name. People who either have gone through or are experiencing difficult times, illness, divorce, death, disappointment, all of the life experiences that confront most of us. I pray for the will of God to be known that we can know it and to the best of our limited ability, try to follow it and fulfill it."


  " I have said many times that, you know, I am a praying person, and if I hadn't been during the time I was in the White House, I would have become one. Because it's very hard to imagine living under that kind of pressure without being able to fall back on prayer and on my faith. So I do pray for people in authority. I try to think about what they are going through, even when I disagree with them. Trying to find some common ground, some common understanding that perhaps can make me more empathetic. I don't always succeed. I will tell you that. So I pray on a pretty regular basis during the day, because I need that strength, and I need that support."

She stood by the victims of the Sandy Hook massacre and took on the gun manufacturers.

She pushed back with the facts.

And she discussed the role that race plays in America—and in her own life.


  " Being a white person in the United States of America, I know that I have never had the experience that so many people, the people in this audience, have had. And I think it's incumbent upon me—and what I have been trying to talk about during this campaign—is to urge white people to think about what it is like to have 'the talk' with your kids, scared that your sons or daughters, even, could get in trouble for no good reason whatsoever like Sandra Bland and end up dead in a jail in Texas."


  " And I have spent a lot of time with the mothers of African-American children who have lost them, Trayvon Martin's mother. And I've gotten to know them. I've listened to them. And it has been incredibly humbling because I can't pretend to have the experience that you have had and others have had. But I will do everything that I possibly can to not only do the best to understand and to empathize, but to tear down the barriers of systemic racism that are in the criminal justice system, in the employment system, in the education and health care system. That is what I will try to do to deal with what I know is the racism that still stalks our country."

  