
    
  Levin: "This is the kind of nominee that we must have"

HOUSTON, Texas – Mark Levin endorsed Ted Cruz for President of the United States on his new TV show, LevinTV, last night. Levin said Cruz is the right man for the job because he has fought for all the issues conservatives care about, "the Constitution, the Republic, individual sovereignty, separation of powers, the Bill of Rights, family, faith, a secure border, our national security." Levin concludes with saying if Cruz were to become the Republican nominee he'd beat Hillary Clinton and win the presidency.
Transcript below. View video on Conservative Review here.

"My purpose here tonight is not to trash any candidate. My purpose here tonight is to tell you why I support Ted Cruz for President of the United States. I support Ted Cruz for President of the United States because I believe everything I've just discussed with you he appreciates, he embraces, he understands, and he has fought for throughout his life too. That is the Constitution, the Republic, individual sovereignty, separation of powers, the Bill of Rights, family, faith, a secure border, our national security. Nobody is perfect. My great idol Ronald Reagan wasn't perfect. So it's not that we seek perfection, or that we look for nitpicking ways to oppose somebody, no. You look at the whole picture, you take the whole life of the individual, you look at their entire career over a period of time. And when you do that it really is a simple decision is it not? If you're a conservative, if you're a constitutionalist, if you've been a Tea Party activist, if you're a Reaganite or Reagan Democrat, it really is in the end a simple decision. At least it is for me.
"My support for Ted Cruz isn't because of opposition to Donald Trump per se, it isn't because of opposition to Rubio or Kasich per se, my support for Ted Cruz is because I honestly believe, this is a man who understands where this country has been and where it needs to go. And we have said so many times, this is the kind of nominee that we must have. Well it doesn't just happen; you have to vote for him. That's how he becomes the nominee of the Republican Party.
"Let me suggest if he gets the nomination he will be elected President of the United States. Because if you just think about it in your mind's eye, there on the stage, Hillary Clinton and Ted Cruz I think he'd wipe the floor with her. Not because he's the most handsome candidate ever, no. Because he's one of the smartest candidates ever. And he knows how to run and he knows how to speak, and I believe with your help he knows how to win. God bless you."
  