
    Today, Illinois Senator and Democratic Whip Dick Durbin and Chicago Mayor Lori Lightfoot released the following statements endorsing Joe Biden for President of the United States:
"America needs a President who can start to heal the wounds of this divided nation. Joe Biden will be that President," said Democratic Whip Dick Durbin. "America needs a President who understands that most Americans worry more about the supermarket than the stock market. That family struggling paycheck to paycheck needs a leader who remembers them every day. Joe Biden will be that President. America needs a President who will expand the protections of the ACA so every family, every person has access to affordable, quality health care. Joe Biden will be that President. And America needs a President whom we can tell our children is a good, caring, honorable person who will lead our nation in the tradition of our best leaders in both political parties. Joe Biden will be that man and will be that President. I am honored to stand with my friend of many years and support Joe Biden to be our next President."
"We need a leader who will use his power and influence to heal the divides and bring us together. Leadership is often forged in the fire of tragedy. Vice President Biden's crises and those his family have experienced are well known. What impresses me is how Joe Biden has turned his pain into empathy for purpose. Qualities that every great leader needs and are profoundly missing in this White House. That empathy shows in the service he provided our nation as a Senator and most recently as Vice President. And it shows in the plans he has for our country. A vision to renew and reaffirm our American values," said Chicago Mayor Lori Lightfoot. "Joe Biden is committed to rebuilding our middle class and to expanding access to affordable health care, and I know he shares our vision for a stronger country where poverty is eradicated. I believe that he can build a coalition – from small towns like Massillon, Ohio, where I grew up, to big cities like Chicago – that will unite people who want a better path forward. I believe he can win."
Durbin and Lightfoot join a growing list of prominent Illinois leaders supporting Biden, including Senator Tammy Duckworth, Congressman Brad Schneider, Congressman Danny Davis, Congressman Mike Quigley, Congresswoman Robin Kelly, Congressman Bill Foster, and former Senator and Ambassador Carol Moseley Braun.
Biden for President has previously announced more than 1,600 endorsements from national, state, and local leaders, including current and former U.S. senators and representatives, governors, state elected officials, community leaders, and national security professionals.
  