
    Today, Mark Mallory, former Mayor of Cincinnati, released the following statement endorsing Joe Biden for President of the United States:
"As Mayor, I worked with Vice President Biden for many years and Cincinnati has benefited tremendously from his steady, experienced leadership. He worked with us to move our city forward by providing millions of dollars to help develop the Banks Project on our riverfront, to rebuild our sewers, improve our highways, and make our buildings more energy-efficient. The investment dollars he directed to Cincinnati helped us create jobs and revitalize our city at a critical time.
"He truly understands what it takes to be effective and to get things done. He is an active, hands-on leader and has, undoubtedly, the best chance to beat Donald Trump. I have known VP Biden for many years and I know that he will make a great President.
"Our country will benefit from Joe Biden's common sense, inclusive leadership style. He stays focused on what's right and what's best for the people of the United States. As this race turns to Ohio I want to make sure that people know where I stand, and it's with Joe Biden for President."
Former Mayor Mark Mallory was sworn in as the 68th Mayor of Cincinnati December 1, 2005, and was re-elected in 2009. His election marked a new era for City Hall as the first two-term Mayor under the new Stronger-Mayor system. Mallory was the first directly-elected black Mayor and the first Mayor in over 70 years who did not come from City Council. Prior to being elected Mayor, he served two terms in the Ohio Senate and two terms in the Ohio House of Representatives.
Mallory has championed the renaissance that is taking place throughout Cincinnati. His vision of a modern city that competes nationally and internationally for businesses, investment, and residents is rallying the community to produce major change. Mayor Mallory's leadership has pushed Cincinnati to pursue bold projects to transform the city and creative strategies to tackle large challenges.
Mallory joins many other Ohio leaders including Former Ohio Governor Ted Strickland and Congressman Tim Ryan in endorsing Joe Biden.
Biden for President has previously announced more than 1,400 endorsements from national, state, and local leaders, including current and former U.S. senators and representatives, governors, state elected officials, community leaders, and national security professionals.
  