
    ELIGIBILITY FOR DOMICILIARY OR HOSPITAL CARE, INCLUDING MEDICAL TREATMENT
Whereas, Section 6, Title I, of Public No. 2, 73rd Congress, entitled "An Act To maintain the credit of the United States Government" provides:
"In addition to the pensions provided in this title, the Administrator of Veterans' Affairs is hereby authorized under such limitations as may be prescribed by the President, and within the limits of existing Veterans' Administration facilities, to furnish to veterans of any war, including the Boxer Rebellion and the Philippine Insurrection, domiciliary care where they are suffering with permanent disabilities, tuberculosis or neuropsychiatric ailments and medical and hospital treatment for diseases or injuries."
Now, Therefore, by virtue of the authority vested in me by said law, the following regulation is promulgated:
I. The Administrator of Veterans' Affairs, within the limits of Veterans' Administration facilities, is authorized to furnish to honorably discharged veterans of any war, including the Boxer Rebellion and the Philippine Insurrection, domiciliary or hospital care, including medical treatment, to the following persons and in the specified order of preference:
(a) To veterans who are suffering with injuries or diseases which were incurred or aggravated in line of duty in the active military or naval service when in need of hospital treatment for such injuries or diseases;
(b) To those veterans who served in the active military or naval service for a period of 90 days or more who are suffering with permanent disabilities or tuberculous or neuropsychiatric ailments, which incapacitates them from earning a living, and who have no adequate means of support.
II. No clothing shall be furnished to any person admitted to a Veterans' Administration facility and while a member thereof except under the following conditions:
(a) Where the veteran is indigent and the furnishing of clothing is necessary to protect health or sanitation;
(b) Where the veteran requires special clothing made necessary by the wearing of prosthetic appliances.
III. Reasonable traveling and other expenses of the veteran to a Veterans' Administration facility may be paid in the discretion of the Administrator of Veterans' Affairs only when the veteran is granted prior authority to report to a Veterans' Administration facility for treatment of injury or disease incurred or aggravated in line of duty in the active military or naval service. Upon completion of such treatment as may be prescribed and regular discharge by the Veterans' Administration, reasonable traveling, and other expenses of the veteran, from the Veterans' Administration facility to the place from which hospitalized may be paid in the discretion of the Administrator of Veterans' Affairs. In the event of the death of any veteran prior to discharge, transportation expenses for the return of the body to place of residence or the nearest National cemetery may be paid in the discretion of the Administrator of Veterans' Affairs when deemed necessary and as an administrative necessity.
IV. No person shall be entitled to receive domiciliary, medical or hospital care, including treatment, who resides outside of the continental limits of the United States or its territories or possessions.
V. The Administrator of Veterans' Affairs is hereby authorized to provide such rules and procedure governing domiciliary or hospital care as he may deem proper and necessary.
VI. Pension for disability the result of injury or disease incurred or aggravated in the line of duty in the active military or naval service, and emergency officers' retirement pay, of any person who is being furnished hospital treatment, institutional, or domiciliary care by the United States, or any political subdivision thereof, shall not exceed $15 per month, provided that where such person has a wife, child or dependent mother or father the difference by which the amount to which such disabled person would otherwise be entitled exceeds $15 will be payable to the wife, child or dependent mother or father, as may be prescribed by the Administrator of Veterans' Affairs. Where any disabled person having neither wife, child nor dependent mother or father, is being maintained by the Government of the United States, or any political subdivision thereof, in an institution and shall be deemed by the Administrator of Veterans' Affairs to be insane, the pension for such person shall thereafter not exceed $15 per month so long as he shall be maintained by the Government of the United States, or any political subdivision thereof, in an institution; provided, however, that in any case where the estate of such person derived from funds paid under the War Risk Insurance Act, as amended, the World War Veterans' Act, 1924, as amended, the several pension acts and/or this Act equals or exceeds $1,500, any payments of pension being made will be discontinued until the estate derived from such funds is reduced to $500. The provisions of this paragraph shall also be applicable to pensions for disability the result of injury or disease incurred after active military or naval service, except that the amount payable while the veteran is in the institution shall be $6.00 per month instead of $15.00 per month.
VII. Where a disabled person entitled to pension under Public No. 2, 73rd Congress, or emergency officers' retirement pay is a patient in a Veterans' Administration facility, or where for any other reason the disabled person and his wife are not living together, or where the child or children are not in the custody of the disabled person, or in the custody of the widow, the amount of the pension may be apportioned as may be prescribed by the Administrator of Veterans' Affairs.
FRANKLIN D. ROOSEVELT
March 31st 1933The White House.
  