
    President Donald J. Trump today announced his intent to nominate key additions to his Administration.
James Donovan of Virginia will serve as Deputy Secretary of the Treasury. Mr. Donovan is an Adjunct Professor at the University of Virginia School of Law and a Managing Director at Goldman Sachs. He earned a BS in chemical engineering from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, a master's degree in management from the MIT Sloan School of Management, and his JD from Harvard Law School. His career at Goldman Sachs has included work on corporate strategy for the firm, investment banking, and investment management. For the past eight years, Mr. Donovan has also taught classes on corporate strategy and team management to law and business students at UVA. Mr. Donovan has long been involved in efforts supporting medical research and cancer treatment and prevention, serving on the Board of Directors of the Foundation for the National Institutes of Health and the Board of Trustees of the Dana-Farber Cancer Institute.
J. Christopher Giancarlo of New Jersey will serve as Chairman of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission. Mr. Giancarlo was confirmed to be a Commissioner at the Commodity Futures Trading Commission by unanimous consent of the Senate on June 3, 2014. He was designated as Acting Chairman of the Commission on January 20, 2017. Before entering public service, Mr. Giancarlo served as the Executive Vice President of GFI Group Inc., a financial services firm. Prior to joining GFI, he was Executive Vice President and U.S. Legal Counsel of Fenics Software and was a corporate partner in the New York law firm of Brown Raysman Millstein Felder & Steiner. He attended Skidmore College in Saratoga Springs, New York where he graduated Phi Beta Kappa with Government Department Honors. Mr. Giancarlo received his law degree from the Vanderbilt University School of Law where he was an associate research editor at the Vanderbilt Journal of Transnational Law and President of the Law School's International Law Society.
Eric D. Hargan of Illinois will serve as Deputy Secretary of Health and Human Services. Mr. Hargan is a shareholder of Greenberg Traurig, LLP in its Health & FDA Business practice, based in Chicago. He earned a BA cum laude in philosophy from Harvard University, and a JD from Columbia University Law School. Mr. Hargan previously served the Department from 2003-2007 as Deputy General Counsel, as Principal Associate Deputy Secretary and as Acting Deputy Secretary. In 2014-2015, he served as Co-Chair and Convener of the Healthcare and Human Services Transition Committee for Illinois Governor Bruce Rauner. In 2016-2017, he served on President Trump's transition team for HHS. He is a previous recipient of the HHS Secretary's Award for Distinguished Service. He and his wife currently reside in the Chicago suburbs with their two sons.
Adam Lerrick of Wyoming will serve as Deputy Under Secretary of the Treasury for International Finance and upon confirmation will be designated as an Assistant Secretary of the Treasury for International Finance. Mr. Lerrick is a Visiting Scholar at the American Enterprise Institute. From 2001 to 2010, he was the Friends of Allan H. Meltzer Professor of Economics at Carnegie Mellon University. From 2001 to 2007, Mr. Lerrick served as Advisor on International Economic Policy to the Joint Economic Committee of Congress. He was also an Advisor on International Economic Policy to the Majority Leader of the House of Representatives. He was awarded a PhD and Institute Scholar, in Economics from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. A Phi Betta Kappa, he graduated summa cum laude from Princeton University in Economics.
Andrew K. "Drew" Maloney of Virginia will serve as Deputy Under Secretary of the Treasury for Legislative Affairs and upon confirmation will be designated as an Assistant Secretary of the Treasury Legislative Affairs. Mr. Maloney is a recognized government affairs expert with over 25 year of experience. Prior to his nomination, he was Vice President of Global Government and External Affairs for the Hess Corporation. Mr. Maloney also served as CEO of Ogilvy Government Relations, a prominent bipartisan government affairs firm. In addition to his professional experience, Mr. Maloney has served as a senior advisor to several presidential campaigns and counseled on presidential legislative transition efforts. He also held senior positions in the U.S. House of Representatives, including working for members of the House Leadership. Maloney originally from Rockingham County, Virginia earned his BA from Randolph-Macon College where he is a member of the Board of Trustees, and his JD from Catholic University's Columbus School of Law.
David Malpass of New York will serve as Under Secretary of the Treasury for International Affairs. Mr. Malpass returns to the Treasury after an extensive career in government and international finance. He served as Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Treasury for Developing Nations in the Reagan Administration and Deputy Assistant Secretary of State in the George H. W. Bush Administration. Mr. Malpass was also a Senior Tax Analyst on the Senate Budget Committee during the preparations for the 1986 Tax Act and Republican Staff Director of Congress's Joint Economic Committee. He was founder of Encima Global, an economic research firm. Mr. Malpass served as Senior Economic Advisor for President Trump's campaign. He has appeared in the media as a commentator and columnist on issues focusing on growth policies, the Federal Reserve, tax reform, and international monetary policy. Mr. Malpass holds a BA from Colorado College and an MBA from University of Denver.
Sigal Mandelker of New York will serve as Under Secretary of the Treasury for Terrorism and Financial Intelligence. Ms. Mandelker is currently a partner at Proskauer Rose LLP. She previously served in senior law enforcement and national security positions at the Department of Justice and the Department of Homeland Security. As Deputy Assistant Attorney General in the Criminal Division of the Department of Justice, Sigal oversaw four major sections and a number of significant cross-border prosecutions. Prior to that position, she served as Counselor to the Secretary of Homeland Security. She also previously worked on counterterrorism and national security issues as Counsel to the Deputy Attorney General. Sigal was also an Assistant U.S. Attorney in the U.S. Attorney's Office for the Southern District of New York. Sigal served as a law clerk to the Honorable Clarence Thomas, U.S. Supreme Court, and to the Honorable Edith H. Jones, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit. Sigal received her JD from the University of Pennsylvania Law School and her BA from the University of Michigan.
Brent James McIntosh of Michigan will serve as General Counsel for the Department of the Treasury. Mr. McIntosh is a partner in the law firm of Sullivan & Cromwell. He was born and raised in Michigan, and he earned degrees from the University of Michigan and Yale Law School. After law school, he was a law clerk to Judge Dennis Jacobs of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit and to Judge Laurence H. Silberman of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit. From 2004 until 2006, he served in the Office of Legal Policy at the U.S. Department of Justice, including as a Deputy Assistant Attorney General. He served in the White House from 2006 until 2009, first as Associate Counsel to the President and then as Deputy Assistant to the President and Deputy Staff Secretary.
  