
    March is Women's History Month
Hillary Clinton delivers a speech at EMILY's List today to honor House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and celebrate Women's History Month, while the campaign launches a major grassroots effort to mobilize women in support of her historic candidacy. EMILY's List, the largest political grassroots organization in the country, has endorsed Hillary for President and will be mobilizing its donors and members across the country.
WOMEN FOR HILLARY: Today, the campaign launches Women for Hillary, a nationwide grassroots initiative to energize women voters. The effort includes:

Campaign of Firsts. The campaign will deploy prominent women leaders like Madeleine Albright, Geraldine Ferraro and Billie Jean King who have broken the glass ceiling to reach out to women across the country.

Building the National Leadership Network. Members of the Network get weekly HILLGRAMS about Hillary's leadership on issues and information about the campaign so they can spread the campaign's message to their friends, family, and communities. And supporters are beginning to self-organize into groups like Women Business Leaders, Women Civic Leaders, Women Lawyers and more.

"I Can Be President" Online Campaign: The "I Can Be President" campaign will reach women of every generation, providing social networking tools that enable them to share stories of why Hillary's campaign is so important to each of them. Our Kids Poster contest, "I Can Be president: Tell the World why America is ready for the first women president!" will incorporate substance with fun and enable young girls and boys and their families to get involved.


WOMEN ARE THE LARGEST VOTING BLOC IN AMERICA: Women are the "X factor" in this upcoming election - more than 54% of general election voters will be women. In particular, younger generation women believe it's time we had our first woman president and believe Hillary is the right choice.
HUGE SUPPORT FROM WOMEN IN SENATE RACES: In her landslide Senate re-election last year, Hillary showed that she attracts huge numbers of women voters, capturing 73% of the women's vote in New York. And Hillary is especially popular among women 18 to 34, 66 percent of whom have a favorable view of her.
HILLCAST ON WOMEN'S HISTORY MONTH AND EQUAL PAY: Hillary's weekly video honors Women's History Month. She'll talk about the importance of equal compensation and other protections for women in the workplace and her efforts on these issues with the Paycheck Fairness Act. [Click here] to watch it.
EQUAL WORK, EQUAL PAY LEGISLATION: Hillary reintroduces the Paycheck Fairness Act today to help narrow the gender pay gap by strengthening enforcement of the equal pay laws. On average, women make only 77 cents for every dollar a man makes for equal work.
  