
    
  Cruz: Evangelical Support Continues to Surge Around the Nation

SPRINGFIELD, MO — Presidential candidate Ted Cruz today announced the endorsements of more than 30 Missouri pastors and faith leaders. The initiative, known as Operation Gideon, is based on the biblical story of Gideon, who led a small handful of men in defeating a foreign army of oppressors.
"Heidi and I are grateful for the prayers and support of these faithful men and women," Cruz said. "As people of strong faith and as leaders in their communities, they have tremendous responsibility and influence. It is humbling to have their public endorsement of our campaign. As these leaders stand with me today, I pledge to continue standing with people of faith to defend every American's God-given right to religious liberty and reignite the promise of America."
"There is no greater advocate and defender of religious freedom than Ted Cruz. I would urge all people of faith and good will in Missouri to prayerfully and seriously consider supporting Ted Cruz for President of the United States," said Don Hinkle, Public Policy Director of the Missouri Baptist Convention.
Missouri faith leaders endorsing Cruz:
Pastor Keith Adamson, Cedar Gap Church
Pastor Brian Andrews, Amazing Grace Baptist Church
Pastor Chad Blansit, Bethany Church
Caleb Brown, Chairman of Deacons, Ramsey Creek Baptist Church
Pastor Aaron Brummitt, Lighthouse Anabaptist Church
Pastor Robert Burnett, Central Baptist Church
Mr. Jeremiah Cote, Youth Ministry Pastor & Missouri Millennials for Cruz State Director
Coby Cullins, President, National Safety Compliance, Inc.
Pastor Jerid Davis, Associate Pastor, Lighthouse Ministries
Pastor George Davis, Senior Pastor, Lighthouse Ministries
Mrs. Michelle Elliott, Evangelist, Kingdom Warriors for Christ
Pastor Herbert Hensley, Nebo Freewill Baptist Church
Don Hinkle, Public Policy Director, Missouri Baptist Convention
Pastor Dan Hite, Director, Pillar Foundation & Pastor, Christian Family Fellowship
Pastor Larry Ingracia, Associate Pastor at Transforming Life Church
Pastor Don Johnson, Hope Church
Mrs. Sherry Kuttenkuler, Central Missouri Director, Concerned Women for America
Pastor Brad Luckey, Senior Pastor, Bible Missionary Church
Mrs. Jill Noble, Kansas City Area Director, Concerned Women for America
Mrs. Debra Rodriguez, Evangelist, Kingdom Warriors for Christ
Mr. David Schminkey, Bible Professor, Ozark Bible Institute
Mrs. Dawn Schminkey, Alumni Secretary, Ozark Bible Institute
Pastor Mike Shelton, Academic Dean, Ozark Bible Institute
Pastor Carl Kingsley Walker, Life Gate International
Pastor Herb Ward, Senior Pastor, Harley Church of God
Previously announced Missouri faith leaders:
Mr. Rich Bott, President of Bott Radio Network
Mr. Dick Bott, Founder of Bott Radio Network
Former State Senator Delbert Scott, President, Kansas Christian College
Mrs. Bev Ehlen, Missouri State Director, Concerned Women for America
Ben Baker, Dean of Students at Ozark Bible Institute
Pastor Chris Lybarger, Senior Pastor at Fellowship First Baptist Church
Pastor John McCaherty, Pastor & State Representative
Mr. Calvin Morrow, Director at Christians Uniting for Political Action
Dr. Chuck Hoskins, Executive Director & Director of Missions, Jefferson Baptist Association
Dr. Karladine Graves, Christian Citizens United
*Titles and affiliations of all endorsers are provided for identification purposes only. 
  