
    Verona, PA - This week oral arguments ended at the Supreme Court over the constitutionality of Obamacare - while close-by Congressional Republicans battled another one of the ghosts from Mitt Romney's past - as his "green (energy) quarterback" from Massachusetts led Obama's attack on America's energy industry.
Hogan Gidley, National Communications Director, said "Gov. Romney often says he's never been in Washington - well it's a good thing he hasn't, because Gov. Romney has done more than enough damage to this nation from Massachusetts. First Romneycare was the basis for Obamacare, and now we find out Gov. Romney's 'green (energy) quarterback' who concocted Romney's regional cap-and-tax scheme is leading the effort to force the same job-crushing energy regulations down our throats at the national level.
Turns out, Governor Romney's healthcare model isn't the only thing Obama copied - now the President is copying Romney's environmental agenda too."
The day after news surfaced that President Obama's Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) plans to issue new greenhouse gas regulations effectively banning new coal-fired power plants, Obama's top air quality official Gina McCarthy - who previously served as Mitt Romney's "green quarterback" in Massachusetts - refused to rule out EPA regulations forcing existing coal plants to enact job-killing carbon dioxide limits.
Under direct questioning by the House Energy and Commerce Committee, McCarthy would only say that EPA currently has "no plans" to issue the regulations. However, as The Hill reports, environmentalists say they are confident the agency will indeed issue climate regulations for existing power plants, noting that yesterday's greenhouse gas proposal for new plants explicitly cites future Clean Air Act regulations for the existing fleet.

From health care mandates and climate regulations to Wall Street bailouts, tax increases and big government spending, we are finding more evidence every day that regardless of how well you shake the Etch A Sketch, the real Mitt Romney looks a whole lot like President Obama on the issues that matter most.

Rick Santorum has vowed to immediately rescind all of President Obama's regulations that cost the economy more than $100 million per year, and immediately approve the Keystone XL pipeline. Toview Rick Santorum's full plan to unleash America's Energy, click here: http://www.ricksantorum.com/unleashing-america%E2%80%99s-domestic-energy
  