
    
Marco made two campaign stops in Idaho on Sunday, two days before the state goes to vote on Tuesday.
At both of them, he was joined by the state's Senator Jim Risch, an early Team Marco member, and was met by packed, energized crowds.
First, in Idaho Falls:
Over 1000 in Idaho Falls crowd for @marcorubio today pic.twitter.com/PlMaJtlcVp
— Brooke Sammon (@BrookeSammon) March 7, 2016
After news that he'd scored a huge win in Puerto Rico and taken all of the territory's 23 delegates, Marco noted it's a sign of how he can expand the GOP:

Then, it was on to Boise, where an even bigger crowd — around 3,000 — was on hand for Marco.
3,000 strong in Boise tonight for @marcorubio! #Marcomentum pic.twitter.com/ahnafVyncq
— Brooke Sammon (@BrookeSammon) March 7, 2016
Republican presidential candidate Marco Rubio made time for selfies on his Idaho stopover March 6. pic.twitter.com/dvOFsYnUTZ
— IdahoBusinessReview (@IBRnews) March 7, 2016
Airplane hangar at Boise Airport nearly filled with people here to see Marco #Rubio; Idaho votes Tuesday. pic.twitter.com/OWcs1k5R7j
— Tom Banse (@TomBanse) March 7, 2016
One local paper found Marco winning over undecided voters:
Chazz Silva, who is also from Nampa, is a first-time voter. Silva said he came to the rally for the experience of attending and to see if Rubio would stand out to him as a candidate. . . .
Silva said his vote has shifted to Rubio. Though he came into the rally an undecided voter, Silva said he is definitely planning to vote for Rubio.
"I was really impressed with what he had to say," Silva said. "I liked that he was very frank about everything and wasn't afraid to speak his mind."
Senator Risch pointed out that Marco's sound policies will protect Idaho's interests:
Idaho Sen. Jim Risch introduced Rubio in Idaho Falls and Boise. Risch said he and Rubio "have spent hundreds of hours together working on national security matters," serving on the Senate Foreign Relations committee: "With Marco Rubio, you don't have to wait for the first day. He is ready today."
Risch also noted Rubio's support for nuclear energy and the Idaho National Laboratory. Rubio also has the backing of Idaho State Controller Brandon Woolf.
Rubio "knows this is the flagship lab for nuclear energy in America, and he wants to keep it that way," Risch said in Idaho Falls, adding that Cruz has said he wants to eliminate the U.S. Department of Energy.
The local ABC station reported on Marco's great reception:

Idaho votes tomorrow, on March 9.
  