
    After exceeding all expectations on Super Tuesday, Illinois Members of Congress Mike Quigley, Robin Kelly, and Bill Foster released the following statements endorsing Joe Biden for President of the United States:
"In Chicago, we know something about toughness and resilience, and nobody embodies that spirit more than Joe Biden," said Congressman Mike Quigley. "On all the issues that matter most in our community, Joe has been fighting beside us for decades. Whether investing big on infrastructure that grows our economy and creates millions of good jobs, supporting commonsense solutions that will end the epidemic of gun violence, or restoring American leadership in the world to keep our nation safe at home, Joe is the only candidate in the race with the experience, heart and vision to unite America and move us forward."
"Joe Biden is the candidate of compassion and strength that our divided nation so badly needs," said Congresswoman Robin Kelly. "Joe has given his life to public service, and has the heart and smarts to bring us together now to get things done. I know, because I know Joe – you do, too. During the Obama administration, I worked up-close with him on a blueprint for ending our nation's gun violence epidemic; today, Joe is the one presidential candidate with the experience and broad coalition to get it done. Joe has spent years not just fighting for common sense gun reforms – beating the NRA twice: passing a 10-year assault weapons ban and Brady Bill background checks – but funding and promoting community policing, to help rebuild so many broken bonds of trust in neighborhoods nationwide. As president, Joe will bring that quest to heal to our whole nation, fighting for equity in housing, healthcare, and education, and to rebuild the middle class and make sure everyone has the same sure path to a bright future."
"Today more than ever, our nation is reminded how crucial it is to have a president who believes in facts, science, and reason; who knows how to bring people together in times of crisis; and who can draw on a deep well of experience to revive the enterprising spirit and openness that has always kept this country safe and strong," said Congressman Bill Foster. "As a kid who started his own company at 19, as a physicist, and as the proud representative of Illinois's 11th Congressional District, I know that Joe Biden will be that kind of president. I know because I worked up close with him throughout the depths of the Great Recession, and I saw him push job-saving, life-saving bills through Congress, with a steady hand and a big heart. I joined him in working to protect consumers and to fight to pass the Affordable Care Act. I know he'll continue that work and so much more as president, investing in a clean energy economy, in game-changing medical research, and in rebuilding the middle class for every working family."
Earlier this week, Illinois Senator Tammy Duckworth became the seventh U.S. Senator to endorse Biden — the most of any candidate in the race. Today's slate also join Congressman Brad Schneider (IL-10), Congressman Danny Davis (IL-7), and former Senator and Ambassador Carol Moseley Braun.
Last week, Biden for President announced the support of 82 Illinois leaders from all 18 congressional districts. Biden for President has previously announced more than 1,500 endorsements from national, state, and local leaders, including current and former U.S. senators and representatives, governors, state elected officials, community leaders, and national security professionals.
  