
    Making News Today: According to his senior economic policy adviser, Sen. Obama's recent speeches about NAFTA are just words. During a meeting at the Canadian consulate in Chicago, the adviser "candidly acknowledged the protectionist sentiment that has emerged... during the campaign. He cautioned that this messaging should not be taken out of context and should be viewed as more about political positioning than a clear articulation of policy plans," according to a Canadian government memo. Read more.
If You Watch One Thing Today: At 7:30 p.m. EST/6:30 p.m. CST, Hillary answers Texans' questions in an unprecedented program, "The Stories of Texas: A Texas-Sized Town Hall." The event will be broadcast live on Fox Sports Net (FSN) Southwest and HillaryClinton.com.
Previewing Today: In Ohio, Hillary holds a rally in Toledo. Later in Texas, Hillary holds a rally in Beaumont before visiting Austin for both a town hall and a rally... At 11 p.m. EST/10 p.m. CST, Hillary appears on "The Daily Show with Jon Stewart." ... In Texas, President Bill Clinton holds events in Corpus Christi, Edinburg, Brownsville, Laredo, Eagle Pass, Del Rio and El Paso.
Recapping Yesterday: In Ohio, Hillary "walked on stage to a cheering crowd in Westerville" and spoke before a "rowdy crowd" in Akron. In Austintown "Clinton backers broke into chants of '˜Hill-a-ry, Hill-a-ry,' when she mentioned the ringing [red] phone." In Mayfield Heights, "Democrats stood and clapped and flashed cell phone cameras as she entered." At Cleveland State University, "students and supporters packed the atrium and four levels of balconies for an eleventh-hour rally."
Stumping in Ohio: Gov. Ted Strickland visits Findlay; First Lady Frances Strickland and former Ambassador Elizabeth Bagley campaign in Dayton, Cincinnati, and Oxford; Rep. Donna Christian-Christensen mobilizes support in Lockland, Cincinnati, and Springfield; and Rep. Gregory Meeks stumps in Cleveland.
GOTV in Rhode Island: Students at six universities around the state canvass their classmates and phone bank at campaign headquarters... At Providence College, Hillary supporters "dorm-storm." ... Sen. Sheldon Whitehouse visits senior centers in Providence, General Treasurer Frank Caprio visits senior centers in West Warwick, and former Lt. Gov. Richard Licht campaigns in Warwick... Boston Mayor Thomas Menino strolls Atwells Avenue, Providence's own "Little Italy."
In Case You Missed It: Jury selection begins today in the political corruption trial of Antoin "Tony" Rezko, Sen. Obama's "political patron" and friend of 17 years.
  