
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Kevin Madden (857) 288 - 6390
Boston, MA – Today, Indiana Secretary of State Todd Rokita endorsed Governor Mitt Romney. Secretary Rokita has been a driving force behind pro-growth economic policies in Indiana and is a national leader on election reform.
"I am gratified to have Secretary Rokita's endorsement. Within a short amount of time in office, he has accomplished much for the people of Indiana. From working to create a business-friendly environment to improving the integrity of our electoral process, Secretary Rokita is using every opportunity to help the people of his state," said Governor Romney. "I look forward to Secretary Rokita's support as we lay out our agenda to change Washington and meet a new generation of challenges."
Announcing his endorsement, Secretary Rokita said, "Our country needs strong, innovative leaders in Washington, and that is why Governor Romney has my support. He is a proven leader in business and government who rises to the occasion with the kind of smart, dynamic approach that is right for our country. I look forward to being one of the many elected leaders around the nation supporting Governor Romney's optimistic message of a strong America."
Background On Secretary Todd Rokita:
Indiana Secretary Of State Todd Rokita Is Currently Serving His Second Term In Office. January 1, 2007 marked the beginning of Rokita's second term in office – a term dedicated to clearing a path for sustained economic growth and continuing work at state and national levels to strengthen our electoral process. Rokita has acted to streamline the government aspect of business development and to modernize Indiana's legal infrastructure to aid in capital formation.
Rokita was elected by his peers nationally to serve on the Executive Board of the federal Election Assistance Commission's Standards Board, and is president-elect of the National Association of Secretaries of State. Prior to taking office, he practiced law and later served as General Counsel to the Indiana Secretary of State. He is a member of the Indiana State Bar, the Knights of Columbus, and the National Rifle Association.
  