
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate seven individuals and appoint seven individuals to serve in his Administration.
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to serve as Members of the President's Commission On Care For America's Returning Wounded Warriors:

  Marc A. Giammatteo, of Connecticut
  Jose R. Ramos, of Texas
  Tammy L. Edwards, of Florida
  Kenneth Fisher, of New York
  C. Martin Harris, of Ohio
  Edward A. Eckenhoff, of the District of Columbia
  Gail R. Wilensky, of the District of Columbia

The President intends to nominate Dale Cabaniss, of Virginia, to be a Member of the Federal Labor Relations Authority, for a five-year term expiring July 29, 2012 and upon confirmation, re-designate as Chair. Ms. Cabaniss currently serves as Chair of the Federal Labor Relations Authority. Prior to this, she served as a Professional Staff Member on the Senate Appropriations Committee and the Homeland and Governmental Affairs Committee. Earlier in her career, she served as Legislative Director for Senator Frank Murkowski. Ms. Cabaniss received her bachelor's degree from the University of Georgia and her JD from Catholic University.
The President intends to nominate Carol Waller Pope, of the District of Columbia, to be Member of the Federal Labor Relations Authority, for the remainder of a five-year term expiring July 1, 2009. Ms. Pope most recently served as a Member of the Federal Labor Relations Authority. Prior to this, she served as Assistant General Counsel at the Federal Labor Relations Authority. Earlier in her career, she served as an Attorney in the Officer of the Solicitor at the Department of Labor. Ms. Pope received her bachelor's degree from Simmons College and her JD from Northeastern University.
The Presidents intends to nominate the following individuals to be Members of the Board of Directors of the United States Institute of Peace:
Anne Cahn, of Maryland, for the remainder of a four-year term expiring January 19, 2009.
Kathleen Martinez, of California, for the remainder of a four-year term expiring January 19, 2011.
Bruce Pitcairn Jackson, of the District of Columbia, for the remainder of a four-year term expiring January 19, 2011.
George E. Moose, of Virginia, for the remainder of a four-year term expiring January 19, 2009.
Jeremy Rabkin, of New York, for the remainder of a four-year term expiring January 19, 2009.
  