
    Pool Reports by Noah Bierman, Los Angeles Times



Sent:
Reports:




March 11, 202012:10 

In town pool #1
Reporters at the White House just spotted Anthony Fauci walking, while talking on his phone, into the West Wing. He did not stop to chat.



March 11, 202015:12 

In-town pool #2 — spray
Tv pool has been told to preset. President has a 3 pm meeting with bankers that had been listed as closed press.



March 11, 202015:22 

In-town pool 3 — headed to spray
Pool is heading to a spray.



March 11, 202015:33 

In town pool #4 banker info
Pool is still holding. Here is background:
EXTERNAL SOURCEToday, President Donald J. Trump will meet with banking leaders to discuss how the financial services industry can meet the needs of their customers who may be affected by COVID-19, particularly consumers and small businesses.
The Trump Administration continues its aggressive whole-of-government approach while also leading a whole-of-America strategy to bring public health officials, academia, non-profits, and the private sector together to protect the American people.
The following individuals are expected to attend:
The White HousePresident Donald J. TrumpVice President Mike PenceJared Kushner, Assistant to the President and Senior AdvisorChristopher Liddell, Assistant to the President and Deputy Chief of Staff for Policy CoordinationMarc Short, Assistant to the President and Chief of Staff to the Vice PresidentLarry Kudlow, Assistant to the President and Director of the National Economic CouncilAndrew Olmem,  Deputy Assistant to the President and Deputy Director of the National Economic CouncilTim Pataki, Deputy Assistant to the President and Director of the Office of Public Liaison
Trump AdministrationSecretary Steven Mnuchin, Department of the TreasuryAdministrator Jovita Carranza,  Small Business AdministrationDeputy Secretary Muzinich, Department of the Treasury
Banking LeadersRob Nichols, President and CEO, America Bankers AssociationBrian Moynihan,  Chairman of the Board and CEO, Bank of AmericaStephen Schwarzman,  Chairman and CEO, BlackstoneKen Griffin,  CEO, CitadelMichael Corbat, CEO, CitiRichard Hunt, President and CEO, Consumer Bankers AssociationDavid Solomon, Chairman and CEO, The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.Rebeca Romero Rainey,  President and Chief Executive Officer, Independent Community Bankers of AmericaGordon Smith,  Co-President and COO, JPMorgan ChaseKelly King,  Chairman and CEO, Truist Financial CorporationAndrew Cecere,  Chairman, President and CEO, U.S. BankCharlie Scharf,  CEO and President, Wells Fargo & Company



March 11, 202015:45 

In-town pool #5 — trump to make statement tonight
Trump says he will be making a statement tonight. Ongoing.
Arrived in cabinet room at 3:39. Bankers and staff gathered Around the table with Trump at center. Trump said they are discussing economy and jobs in light of virus. Trump said he has made some decisions today and will make others.
Then he asked bankers to speak:
Brian Moynihan of B of A said banks are in great position on capital and liquidity and providing relief to customers out of work because of the virus.
Michael Corbat of Citi "this is not a financial crisis."
Trump "now we're hitting a patch..."



March 11, 202015:53 

In town pool #6 — more bankers -/ 8 pm statement
Ongoing:
Statement is "probably at 8 o'clock"
Trump has arms crossed at points and hands folded at others and is in the center. Kushner on one end near Mnuchin. Kudlow on other side. Bankers and others scattered among them.
Trump: "We'll be doing a lot of additional work with small businesses...many billions of dollars"
Ken Griffin of Citadel: "your focus on fiscal stimulus is really important" especially for struggling families.
Gordon Smith of JP Morgan: bank has resiliency plans to help our people and customers. Extended $26b in loans in last 40 days.
Trump: "There will be a pent up demand" when this is done.



March 11, 202016:01 

In town pool - 7
In response to questions, Trump says he won't answer whether there will be more travel restrictions or a national disaster declaration till tonight.
There will be both economic and health announcements, he said. Pool is being ushered out now.
"This came out of nowhere. It actually came out of China...we are going to get the problem solved."
"If we get rid of the problem quickly everything solved itself..we are talking about various forms of stimulus"
"The payroll tax would be great. Dems are not in favor of it. I'm trying to figure out why"



March 11, 202016:13 

In-town pool #8
There was no additional news during the spray. In response to a question, the president allowed the bankers to offer some suggestions to boost the economy. And he dismissed a question from Jim Acosta of CNN who asked "what do you say to Americans who are concerned that you're not taking this seriously enough and that some of your statements don't match what your health experts are saying."
"That's CNN, Fake news," President Trump responded.
He then thanked the pool, prompting the wranglers to begin moving the pool out of the room.



March 11, 202017:43 

In town pool #9 — dinner lid
Dinner lid till 7:30.



March 11, 202020:47 

In-town pool #10 -- speech logistics
Heads up: reporters will not be allowed in while POTUS delivers tonight's televised address. One poll television crew and one still camera are allowed in. So there will be no pool report from inside the address.



March 11, 202021:18 

in-town pool #11 -- Lid
Travel photo lid has been called.



March 11, 202021:35 

in-town pool #12 -- trip cancelations statement
"Out of an abundance of caution from the Coronavirus outbreak, the President has decidedto cancel his upcoming events in Colorado and Nevada." Stephanie Grisham




  