
    
Day three of Newt and Callista's Georgia Bus Tour brought them to Cobb County, Cherokee County, and Macon. At each stop, before large and enthusiastic crowds, Newt outlined his bold solutions for job creation and increasing American energy production to lower gasoline prices.
In Cobb County, Newt spoke to the Cobb Chamber of Commerce's breakfast held at the Cobb Energy Centre.  Before a sold-out crowd of 600 people, Newt hammered President Obama for apologizing to Afghanistan instead of standing up for our troops.
"I think the spectacle of an American president as commander-in-chief apologizing at a time when young Americans are being killed by the people he's apologizing to tells you everything you need to know about the intellectual and moral bankruptcy of this administration," Gingrich told the roughly 550 attendees.
The audience at the Cobb Chamber of Commerce breakfast gave Gingrich three standing ovations as he talked about his campaign platform.
Gingrich said the Qurans in question had been defaced by political prisoners who had used them to send secret messages. What Obama should have done was ask the Muslim world to join him in condemning extremists who misused the books, thereby putting the blame where it belongs.
In fact, the U.S. Army burned Bibles in 2009 to avoid upsetting Afghans, Gingrich said.
"So we as a people are being told our own government will burn Bibles and apologize for burning the Quran and do so while Americans are being killed?" Gingrich said. "This is an absurdity."

In Woodstock, Newt spoke at the grand opening of the Cherokee County Republican Party headquarters. A fired up crowd of more than 400 people cheered enthusiastically as Newt outlined his bold solutions to rebuild the America we love.
The committed and the faithful Newt Gingrich supporters turned out in force Thursday for their candidate's campaign rally in front of the new Cherokee County Republican Party Headquarters, and the presidential hopeful gave them what they came to hear.
From the price of gas to what he called the failures of President Barack Obama's administration to the candidate's stands on foreign policy, Gingrich got a warm response from the crowd of at least 400.
Rep. Sean Jerguson (R-Holly Springs) and Georgia Public Service Commissioner Stan Wise rallied the crowd before Gingrich's entrance.
By the time Newt approached the podium the crowd, made up of a mixture of moms, businessmen, veterans, other politicians, young people and retirees, lined the stage chanting the former U.S. House speaker's name.
Many of Gingrich's followers said afterward they believe the former U.S. speaker of the House is the right candidate for the Republican ticket.
Bedecked in "Newt 2012" gear and with a ream of stickers wrapped around her arms, Mary Ann Exley of Woodstock said she was very excited following the rally, which was the first she'd ever attended.
"I knew I wanted to vote for Newt," Exley said. "He's saying what the country needs to hear."

In Macon, more than 300 people came out to hear Newt's speech at the Hephzibah Children's Home, and most people came away recognizing that Newt is the best candidate to defeat President Obama.

  Connie Parker, of Macon, said she was at the rally to back Gingrich because he's the best man for the job both in foreign policy and in spirit.
"I think he's the most godly candidate," she said.
Gingrich virtually ignored Ron Paul and labeled Mitt Romney and Rick Santorum as "traditional politicians" while touting himself as the only Republican with a "vision" to challenge Obama's.
That resonated with Deborah Elkins, waving a sign that said "Newt-er Obama."
She said she thinks Gingrich is the only candidate who can beat the incumbent.
Gingrich's main theme was promoting his energy policy, promising $2.50-per-gallon gasoline through expanded oil drilling, opening offshore areas and federal lands and approving the recently rejected Keystone Pipeline from Canada.
He accused Obama of "deliberate dishonesty," driving up gasoline prices intentionally to promote alternative energy.

Click here for a recap of day one of Newt and Callista's Georgia Bus Tour, and click here for day two's recap.
  