
    HOUSTON, Texas – Presidential candidate Ted Cruz today named Wil VanLoh, co-founder, president and CEO of Quantum Energy Partners, and Texas Railroad Commissioner Ryan Sitton, Co-Chairmen of the campaign's energy policy task force. Quantum Energy Partners is a private equity fund focused exclusively on the energy industry. The Texas Railroad Commission oversees oil, gas, coal mining and alternative fuels development and production in the state of Texas.
"Ted Cruz is the only candidate in the presidential race who understands and values the contributions the energy industry makes to our nation's economic and national security," said Wil VanLoh. "Ted's already been leading the fight to implement needed energy policy reforms at the federal level and I look forward to working with him to get those important reforms passed when he is president.  A thriving domestic energy industry is foundational for a country to enhance the quality of life for all of its citizens," concluded VanLoh.
"Ted Cruz's leadership on energy issues is one of many reasons that I'm supporting his campaign for president," said Commissioner Sitton. "In March of 2015, Ted introduced the American Energy Renaissance Act which would provide much needed changes to America's energy policy and regulation. Ted Cruz understands that the responsible production of American energy resources can be a game changer for our economic and national security interests. I am honored Ted's asked me to chair this task force and I look forward to developing additional pro-American energy ideas he can use to harness the strength of America's energy industry and secure our energy independence," concluded Sitton.
"I'm excited Wil and Ryan have agreed to co-chair our energy policy task force," said Cruz. "Access to affordable, reliable energy is something we all take for granted. But if we do not stop crushing energy producers with burdensome and unnecessary regulations, energy costs will skyrocket, and our most vulnerable citizens will pay the greatest price. As president I will advocate for every form of energy production, without subsidies or government interference, and unshackle the ingenuity and entrepreneurship of America's critically important energy industry," concluded Cruz.
Biographical Information on Wil VanLoh and Ryan Sitton:
Wil VanLoh co-founded Quantum in 1998 and serves as President and CEO of the firm and as Chairman of Quantum's Executive and Investment Committees. In these capacities he leads the firm's investment strategy and capital allocation process, working closely with the investment team to ensure its successful implementation and execution. Wil has served as a board member and Treasurer of the Houston Producer's Forum and currently serves on the Finance Committee of the Independent Petroleum Association of America ("IPAA"). He holds a B.B.A. in Finance from Texas Christian University.
Ryan Sitton is a native Texan who grew up in the Irving area. He is a graduate of Texas A&M University where he earned a degree in Mechanical Engineering, and met his wife, Jennifer. Following college, Ryan went to work as an engineer in the energy industry.?In 2006 Ryan and Jennifer founded Pinnacle Advanced Reliability Technologies, an engineering and technology company focused on reliability and integrity programs for the oil, gas, and petrochemical industries. ?With almost 20 years of experience in the oil, gas, and petrochemical industry, Ryan is considered a leading expert in his field, having served on the board of several energy trade associations, as an expert in both regulatory and civil court cases, and currently serving on the board of the Texas A&M Energy Institute.?He is the first engineer to serve as a Railroad Commissioner in over 50 years.
  