
    Pool Reports by Seung Min Kim, The Washington Post 



Sent:
Reports:




March 23, 202113:24

Travel pool report #1 — POTUS arrival at JBA 
Joint Base Andrews, Md.
M1 arrived at Andrews Air Force Base at 1:18 p.m., with POTUS disembarking two minutes later.
He walked toward AF1, accompanied by who your pooler presumes is the base commander, saluted and then walked up the steps of AF1 before boarding at 1:21 p.m.
Jen Psaki will gaggle aboard AF1, the audio of which will be fed back to the briefing room and your in-town pooler will send highlights.



March 23, 202113:27

Travel pool report #2 — JBA departure, list of travelers/greeters 
Joint Base Andrews, Md.
We are rolling as of 1:26 p.m. for Columbus, Ohio.
List of greeters and travelers, per the White House:
Greeting the President at JBA:Colonel Stephen Snelson, Commander, 89th Airlift Wing, Joint Base Andrews
Traveling with the President on Marine One:Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of StaffJen Psaki, Assistant to the President & Press SecretaryDr. Elizabeth Sherwood-Randall, Assistant to the President & Homeland Security Advisor and Deputy National Security AdvisorAshley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office OperationsStephen Goepfert, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the President
Additional staff traveling to Columbus, Ohio:Ryan Montoya, Deputy Assistant to the President & Director of Scheduling & AdvanceVinay Reddy, Deputy Assistant to the President & Director of SpeechwritingChristen Linke Young, Deputy Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of the Domestic Policy Council for Health and Veterans Affairs



March 23, 202113:30

Travel pool report #3 — background on Ohio visit 
Background on the Ohio visit, per WH
BACKGROUND MEMORANDUM
TO: Out-of-Town Travel PoolFROM: White House Press OfficeDATE: March 23, 2021RE: Background for the President's Visit to Ohio
The Need for Action in Ohio
The pandemic and the associated economic crisis have had a severe impact on Ohio. The need for action is clear:

Since the pandemic began, more than 999,750 people have been infected with COVID-19 and more than 18,347 people have died.
The unemployment rate is 5.3%, up from 4.7% before the pandemic.
Since February 2020, more than 156,000 fewer people are employed.
930,000 adults – 12% of all adults in the state – report not having enough food to eat. This includes 309,000 adults living with children, or 12% of all adults living with children, who report that the children in their household do not have enough to eat.
An estimated 485,000 renters, or 20% of renters, are not caught up on rent.
An estimated 2,592,000 adults, or 31% of all adults statewide, report having difficulty covering normal household expenses.

The Effect of the American Rescue Plan on Ohio
President Biden's American Rescue Plan will provide Ohio with:

$5.5 billion in state fiscal relief.
$4.6 billion in local fiscal relief.
More than $4.5 billion in relief for K-12 schools.
Economic impact payments of up to $1,400 per person (above the $600 per person provided in December) for more than 7.4 million adults and 2.8 million children. This is 89% of all adults in the state and 87% of all children in the state.
Additional relief of up to $1,600 per child through the Child Tax Credit to the families of 2,372,000 children, lifting 132,000 children out of poverty.
Additional relief of up to nearly $1,000 through the Earned Income Tax Credit to 695,000 childless workers, including many in frontline jobs.
Marketplace health insurance premiums that are $1,062 lower per month for a 60-year old couple earning $75,000 per year.

How the American Rescue Plan Delivers Health Care
The American Rescue Plan will lead to the largest premium reduction and coverage expansion since the ACA. Specifically, the ARP will:

Reduce premiums by an average of $50 per person per month for about 10 million consumers who have coverage today.
Lead at least 1.3 million people to gain coverage due to these premium reductions.
Help 80 percent of marketplace enrollees find a plan for $10 or less per month after tax credits.
Ensure that anyone who received unemployment insurance in 2021 can access a Silver health plan with $0 premiums.
Cover the full cost of COBRA health coverage for six months for workers and their families who lost their health benefits in the wake of COVID-19.

The American Rescue Plan will increase access to affordable, high-quality health care for Ohioans. The ARP will:

Make 93,200 uninsured Ohioans newly eligible for premium tax credits.
Make 23,100 uninsured Ohioans eligible for $0 benchmark Marketplace coverage.

Ohio Vaccinations Update

Ohio residents with at least one dose: 2,866,528 people (24.5% of the total population).
Ohio residents fully vaccinated: 1,650,203 people (14.1% of the total population).

Federal Support for Vaccinations
Pharmacies: The Biden-Harris Administration's program has made vaccines available in over 800 pharmacies to date, with over 400 pharmacies receiving deliveries in the past week. Participating pharmacies are primarily Kroger, Rite Aid, and CVS locations but also include Walmart, Walgreens, CPESN (an independent pharmacy network), and Meijer.
Community Health Centers: The Biden-Harris Administration is partnering with 24 Health Centers to provide them with direct vaccine allocations. Three were onboarded in the first phase of the program, in Akron, Cincinnati, and Lima, and 21 are being onboarded over this next five-week phase, in Akron, Chillicothe, Cincinnati, Cleveland, Columbus, Dayton, Hamilton, Ironton, Lancaster, Mansfield, Marion, Portsmouth, Sandusky, and Youngstown. Combined, they have sites at over 150 different locations across the state.
Federal Funding: There is one federally-run community vaccination center open at the Wolstein Center at Cleveland State University with a vaccination capacity of 6,000 shots per day. Over 250 federal personnel are currently deployed to the state to support vaccination efforts. Additionally, over 900 federally-funded National Guard members are supporting COVID-19 response in the state.



March 23, 202114:24

Travel pool report #4 — Columbus arrival, gaggle highlights 
Columbus, Ohio
AF1 landed at John Glenn Columbus International Airport at 2:22 p.m.
White House press secretary Jen Psaki gaggled with the press for about 20 minutes toward the end of the flight and took questions on guns, the border, nominations, the Postal Service and other topics. Your travel poolers and in-town pool are working on highlights as we speak.



March 23, 202114:33

Travel pool report #5 — Rolling in Columbus 
Columbus, Ohio
POTUS, donning his trademark aviators, stepped off AF1 at 2:29 p.m. here in sunny Columbus and hopped into the Beast a few moments after.
We are rolling as of 2:32 p.m. A huge, huge thanks to in-town pooler Tal Kopan for handling the gaggle for us.



March 23, 202114:41

Travel pool report #6 — Still at airport, greeters 
Columbus, Ohio
The motorcade has actually not left John Glenn airport and is now holding.
List of greeters here in Columbus, per the WH—
The President was greeted by Ohio Governor Mike DeWine and First Lady Fran DeWine.



March 23, 202115:04

Travel pool report #7 — Now, we are rolling 
Columbus, Ohio
The motorcade is rolling out of John Glenn airport at 3:03 p.m. Your pool didn't spot him, but the White House confirmed that POTUS had stepped into the airport hangar while we were holding.



March 23, 202115:10

Travel pool report #7a — POTUS photo line 
Columbus, Ohio
While at John Glenn airport, POTUS participated in a photo line with the following, per the White House—
Nan Whaley, Mayor of DaytonTina Maharath, Ohio State Senate, District 3Hearcel F. Craig, Ohio State Senate, District 15Kristin Boggs, Ohio State House of Representatives, District 18Richard Cordray, former Director of the Consumer Financial Protection BureauZach Klein, Columbus City AttorneyElizabeth Walters, Chair of the Ohio Democratic Party and Summit County Council PresidentGina Mobley, Mother of the late Springdale Police Officer Kaia Grant , and Jonathan "Michael" Cobb , Educator and Partner of Gina Mobley Jeni Britton Bauer, Founder and Chief Creative Officer of Jeni's Splendid Ice Creams



March 23, 202115:27

Travel pool report #8 — arrival on OSU campus 
Columbus, Ohio
The motorcade arrived on the campus of THE Ohio State University at 3:21 p.m. after an uneventful drive. We are positioned to view POTUS's tour of the James Cancer Hospital and Solove Research Institute on the OSU campus (radiology floor), which will happen shortly. (We are running a bit ahead of schedule.)



March 23, 202115:35

Travel pool report #9 — background on cancer center tour 
Columbus, Ohio
Background from the WH—
The President will tour the new, state-of-the-art Radiation Oncology Department at the Arthur G. James Cancer Hospital and Richard J. Solove Research Institute at Ohio State University, which was built using a grant through the Affordable Care Act. In 2011, Ohio State received a $100 million grant through the ACA that supported construction of an improved radiation care facility that centers patient well-being and comfort when receiving the grueling therapy.
The facility went from seeing 70 patients per day to over 300 patients, with the increased numbers of patients coming primarily from underprivileged groups and from remote rural communities. The new FLASH technology—a highly targeted form of proton therapy—has taken traditional treatments from 6-8 weeks down to 1 week.
The American Rescue Plan will help lower health care premiums, increasing access to state of the art medical facilities such as this one for many Ohioans.
Joining the President on this tour:

Congresswoman Joyce Beatty (OH-03)
Dr. Arnab Chakravarti, Chair, Department of Radiation Oncology




March 23, 202115:59

Travel pool report #10 — New POTUS comment on guns 
Columbus, Ohio
Color from POTUS's tour coming shortly. But POTUS answered a question from NBC's Kelly O'Donnell on whether he has the political capital to move forward on gun measures.
"I hope so," he said, crossing his fingers. "I don't know. I haven't done any counting yet."



March 23, 202116:24

Travel pool report #11 — POTUS tours cancer center 
Columbus, Ohio
POTUS arrived to the location where your pool was holding, on the radiology floor at James Cancer hospital, at 3:35 p.m., accompanied by Dr. Arnab Chakravarti, the chair of the radiology and oncology department here and Rep. Joyce Beatty (D-Ohio). Chakravarti told him that "this is a war on cancer and you're our commander in chief."
Biden, wearing a black mask, was listening intently with his arms crossed.
Chakravarti talked about the "bell of hope" that honors cancer patients and Biden responded "unfortunately, I'm pretty familiar with the bell."
He discussed his experience with son Beau's battle with glioblastoma and noted that his "only regret" when he declined to run for president in 2016 was that "I wasn't going to be the president that was going to preside ... over the end of cancer as we know it."
He noted that the "use of radiation is a very complex thing" and discussed Beau's experiences with treatment.
The pool left that little hallway where POTUS and Beatty were speaking with Chakravarti at 3:42 p.m. The pool was then ushered into a room holding new, large new pieces of radiation equipment that Chakravarti said was funded by ACA grants.
During Chakravarti's presentation, POTUS was engaged, asking questions to the doctor about the technology, such as how accurate the machines were. One of the machines was called the "Mobetron," a device that provides flash therapy and high doses of radiation.
During the approximately nine-minute visit inside the room holding the radiation machines, POTUS noted the role that dogs can play in detecting cancer and noted in an aside to the press: "Dogs can help cure cancer. Not a joke ... it's a fascinating thing."
Asked by Kelly O'Donnell whether seeing these technological advances makes him hopeful, POTUS responded: "It's mostly hopeful because I don't want to see anybody go through what my son did."
POTUS discussed the range of brain injuries that can result after soldiers abroad are exposed to IEDs, likening it to the illnesses of U.S. troops after exposure to Agent Orange during the Vietnam War.
POTUS also said "one of my regrets" when he ran for the presidency was that he had to give up work on the Biden Cancer Initiative and could no longer raise money for it.
Of cancer researchers, he said: "It is something ... these guys are on the edge of so many things. Think about it. Jimmy Carter was declared basically gone like, five times."
A moment later, he stopped himself and said, "Anyway, I'm talking too much."
Pool was ushered out of the second stop of his tour at 3:55 p.m. and is awaiting POTUS remarks. As always, please check quotes in pool report against official transcript, since it was hard to hear at times.



March 23, 202116:29

Travel pool report #12 — Psaki statement on Iraq 
From White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki:
We look forward to renewing our Strategic Dialogue with the Government of Iraq over the month of April. This will be an important opportunity to discuss our mutual interests across a range of fields from security to culture, trade, and climate. The meetings will further clarify that coalition forces are in Iraq solely for the purpose of training and advising Iraqi forces to ensure that ISIS cannot reconstitute. The United States is committed first and foremost to Iraq's sovereignty and we look forward to these important discussions with Iraqi leaders on the future our partnership as outlined in the Strategic Framework Agreement between our two countries.



March 23, 202116:49

Travel pool report #13 — speakers pre-POTUS 
Columbus, Ohio
As we wait for POTUS, the White House sends the list of speakers before the president:

Congresswoman Joyce Beatty (OH-03)
Tameka Hairston, Manager of Case Management and Social Work at Wexner Medical Center.




March 23, 202117:18

Travel pool report #14 — two minute warning 
Two min warning until POTUS remarks, as of 5:17 p.m.



March 23, 202117:21

Travel pool report #15 — remarks begin 
Columbus, Ohio
POTUS, with the two other speakers listed in a previous pool report, came to the podium at 5:18 p.m.
The remarks are being carried live in all the regular channels.



March 23, 202117:43

Travel pool report #16 -- Highlights from POTUS remarks 
Columbus, Ohio
POTUS took the lectern at 5:26 p.m., and concluded at 5:42 p.m. The remarks were carried live, but some highlights (and a reminder to check quotes against official transcript):
*He briefly referenced the Boulder shootings at the top, and noted that he had been on the phone with the attorney general and the FBI director. He noted that the "investigation is still ongoing" and "my heart goes out to the families of the victims as the survivors." He again commended the "heroic actions" of Officer Eric Talley.
*He touted several provisions of the American Rescue Plan, and said the U.S. will have, by the end of May, roughly 600 million doses of coronavirus vaccines, "enough for every American." He also noted the $1,400 direct payment checks and said "by tomorrow, we will have distributed 100 million of those checks. He also highlighted the child tax credit and earned income tax credit provisions in the ARP.
"There's so much more, but help is here," POTUS said.
*He thanked the doctors and staff at James Cancer Hospital and Solove Research Institute, saying: "This place is a source of hope." He said he wants to push Congress to develop new government investments to deliver new research breakthroughs for cancer and other diseases: "I know we can do this … America does big things."
*He recounted a conversation with former president Obama re: his infamous "big f------ deal" moment more than a decade ago when the Affordable Care Act became law, remarking: "Thank God my mother wasn't around to hear it."
*He announced the extension of the special enrollment period under the Affordable Care Act, which will now run through Aug. 15. He urged qualifying Americans to get registered: "A few clicks and a short conversation and that's all it takes to start seeing those benefits."
*He urged everyone to "get vaccinated when it's your turn," while continuing to take health measures such as washing hands. He added: "It's a patriotic responsibility you have. Now is not the time to let down our guard."



March 23, 202117:45

Travel pool report #16a — Notable attendees for speech 
Columbus, Ohio
From the White House —
In attendance for the President's remarks:

Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09)
Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-13)




March 23, 202117:54

Travel pool report #17 — background on Thurs press conference 
From the White House —
The White House worked with the White House Correspondents Association and the number of seats we are safely able to accommodate the President's press conference is 30 individually-seated journalists. The White House will also include the remainder of the in-house pool still photographers and TV pool for a total of 40 individuals.



March 23, 202118:11

Travel pool report #18 — Departure from OSU 
Columbus, Ohio
Your pooler did not spot POTUS getting into the motorcade, which is moving as of 6:10 p.m. back to John Glenn airport.
A teeny tiny bit of color: After concluding his remarks, POTUS took a minute to greet audience members and exchange a few fist bumps, then left the area where he was delivering his speech shortly before 5:45 p.m.



March 23, 202118:42

Travel pool report #19 — Brief POTUS gaggle at airport 
Columbus, Ohio
The POTUS motorcade pulled into John Glenn airport at 6:26 p.m. after an uneventful drive.
POTUS disembarked the Beast at 6:34 p.m. and answered a couple questions from the press. It was very hard to hear so please check tape.
When asked about threats from Duckworth and Hirono to block nominees until there are more AAPI appointments, POTUS said: "We have the most diverse cabinet in history. We have a lot of Asian Americans that are in the Cabinet and in sub-Cabinet levels."
On the border, "I'll have more to say about that in the next couple days." He says "the last administration dismantled" the system.
On North Korea, "We've learned nothing much has changed."



March 23, 202118:44

Travel pool report #20 — Wheels up Columbus 
Columbus, Ohio
AF1 is rolling out of John Glenn at 6:43 p.m.



March 23, 202119:37

Travel pool report #21 — Wheels down JBA 
Joint Base Andrews, Md.
AF1 landed at JBA at 7:36 p.m. after an uneventful flight, with no visitors to the press cabin.



March 23, 202119:54

Travel pool report #22 — POTUS departs JBA 
Joint Base Andrews, Md.
POTUS stepped off AF1 at 7:48 p.m. After walking down the stairs, POTUS saluted the base commander, walked with him toward M1 and boarded it about a minute later. M1 was rolling as of 7:53 p.m.
Handing off to in-town pool, and your pooler thanks Zolan Kanno-Youngs from the NYT for his help today.
Greeters and M1 travelers, per White House —
Greeting the President at JBA:Colonel Stephen Snelson, Commander, 89th Airlift Wing, Joint Base Andrews
Traveling with the President on Marine One:Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of StaffJen Psaki, Assistant to the President & Press SecretaryDr. Elizabeth Sherwood-Randall, Assistant to the President & Homeland Security Advisor and Deputy National Security AdvisorAshley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office OperationsStephen Goepfert, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the President




  