
    More than 100 Buckeye leaders have now endorsed Joe Biden in just the last week
Today, dozens of Ohio faith leaders and elected officials announced their endorsements of Joe Biden for President.
"We need a president who will be able to earn the trust of vulnerable communities who have been neglected by the current Administration for four years now. Joe Biden has made building a diverse coalition fundamental to his candidacy, and he's going to make sure his Administration reflects the country with that same diverse coalition serving in roles of true leadership. For communities like mine -- the African American community in Cleveland -- having a partner and friend in the White House won't just be a refreshing change of pace -- it is necessary to ensuring our families and our children can succeed," said Senior Pastor Micah C.T. Sims of Lee Memorial AME Church of Cleveland.
"When I hear Joe Biden speak, I hear a leader. I hear a man who can reach across political, cultural, and geographical divides and unite neighbor with neighbor. This week, I'm excited to vote for someone who can bring strong leadership to the White House. I urge my fellow men and women of faith to join me in electing a truly decent person who can help America come together again -- and that person is Joe Biden," said Elder Larry Price of the Triedstone Baptist Church of Columbus.
"The values we preach at the pulpit -- feeding the hungry, taking care of the sick and poor, treating others as we would wish to be treated ourselves -- are the same values we should hope to see in a President. I'm endorsing Joe Biden because he is the person in this race who can best reshape our government back to one that gives care and resources to those who need it. Our government has turned its back on the least among us for far too long, and it's time to turn that around and instill compassion back into our leadership," said Dr. Elliott Cuff, president of the National Baptist Congress of Christian Education of Cincinnati.
"I see the news today about the virus, the market dropping, North Korea launching rockets, new disputes in the Middle East, it's a scary time. We realize how important it is to have the right person in White House. We need a steady, tested leader, someone who knows how to bring people together in a bi-partisan coalition to solve problems. We need someone who understands the international complexities and has the trust of world leaders. That's why I'm endorsing Vice President Joe Biden for President. He has the experience, competence and judgment to handle the challenges of today and tomorrow," said former Ohio Congressman and United Nations Ambassador for Food and Agriculture Tony P. Hall.
The full list of Ohio faith leaders and elected officials endorsing Joe Biden today includes:

C. Vincent Berry, Pastor
Mark V. Bomar, President, Baptist Ministers Conference of Cincinnati and Vicinity
Paul M. Booth Jr., Pastor
Brian Cash, Senior Pastor
James H. Cantrell, Pastor
Timothy J. Clarke, Bishop
Dr. Elliott Cuff, Senior Pastor
Dr. Victor M. Davis, Pastor
Dr. Dock Foster, Senior Pastor
Vincent L. Golden Sr., Pastor
Aaron Greenlea, Pastor
William T. Hunt, Minister
Dr. Jamison Hunter, Pastor
David L. Hunter, Bishop
Dr. Donald E. Jones, Pastor
Larry McCrimager, Elder
Dr. Tony Minor, Bishop
Dr. Otis Moss, Jr., Pastor Emeritus
Nathan Nance, Pastor
Dr. A. L. Owens, Pastor
Dr. George L. Parks, Sr., Pastor
Larry Price, Elder
Quentin Respress, Pastor
Steve A. Scott, Bishop
Micah C.T. Sims, Pastor
Dr. Bryan Walker, Pastor
Bishop Donald J. Washington, Senior Pastor
Tony P. Hall, former Ohio Congressman and United Nations Ambassador for Food and Agriculture
Samuel J. Alai, Mayor of Broadview Heights
Richard Bain, Mayor of Pepper Pike
Annette M. Blackwell, Mayor of Maple Heights
Michael L. Booker, Mayor of Highland Hills
Michael P. Byrne, Mayor of Parma Heights
Matthew J. Castelli, Mayor of Middleburg Heights
Mark A. Cegelka, Mayor of Glenwillow
Katherine A. Gallagher, Mayor of Brooklyn
Benjamin Holbert, Mayor of Woodmere
Kirsten Holzheimer Gail, Mayor of Euclid
Stanley C. Koci, Mayor of Bedford
Edward H. Kraus, Mayor of Solon
Kathy Mulcahy, Mayor of Orange
David Smith, Mayor of North Randall
Brenda Tedeschi Bodnar, Mayor of Mayfield
Brandon L. King, Mayor of East Cleveland
Michael D. Polensek, Cleveland City Councilman
Anthony Brancatelli, Cleveland City Councilman
Anthony T. Hairston, Cleveland City Councilman
Aftab Pureval, Hamilton County Clerk of Courts
Earle B. Turner, Cleveland Municipal Clerk of Courts

With these new endorsements, the number of Buckeye leaders endorsing Joe Biden this week now tops 100, including all four Ohio UFCW Locals; Ohio Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur; House Minority Leader Emilia Strong Sykes; Senate Minority Leader Kenny Yuko; Mayor of Columbus Andrew J. Ginther; Mayor of Cincinnati John Cranley; as well as nine current and former State Representatives, including Terrence Upchurch; and six current and former State Senators, including Nickie Antonio.
These endorsements build on the broad and diverse list of current and former elected officials and community leaders from across Ohio, including Congressman Tim Ryan, Congresswoman Marcia Fudge, former Ohio Governor Ted Strickland, former CFPB Director Richard Cordray, former Congressman Edward Feighan, Columbus City Attorney Zach Klein, former Columbus City Councilmember Mary Jo Hudson, State Senator Herceal Craig, and Youngstown Mayor Jamael "Tito" Brown.
Nationally, Biden for President has previously announced more than 2,100 endorsements from national, state, and local leaders, including current and former U.S. senators and representatives, governors, state elected officials, community leaders, and national security professionals.
  