
    "[Romney is] fiscally conservative and comes with an extensive business background. He has an impressive record of achievement as a Republican governor of one of the most liberal states in the country"
"Georgia GOP Primary: Man-Up For Mitt"
Editorial
Savannah Morning News
March 1, 2012
http://savannahnow.com
Georgia Republicans who hope to win the White House in November should rally next Tuesday behind the one GOP challenger who has the best chance of winning: Mitt Romney.
...
And Mr. Gingrich isn't without some appeal.
He's a tenacious debater. Many Republicans relish the idea of seeing Mr. Gingrich debate President Obama in the fall (although the president's handlers, who are smart, would limit such face-offs to exactly one).
So far, he's been the most aggressive candidate to tear into Obamacare. And he's definitely got no shortage of ideas — some good, some not so good.
But Newt comes with more baggage than a luggage carousel at Hartsfield-Jackson International Airport. He may have the juice to win Georgia. But winning enough states to beat Mr. Obama in a national election is the longest of long shots. That's because moderate, independent voters who tipped the balance Mr. Obama's way four years ago are unlikely to go Newt's way in November.
...
[Romney is] fiscally conservative and comes with an extensive business background. He has an impressive record of achievement as a Republican governor of one of the most liberal states in the country. He understands what the nation must do to put more people back to work, while not bankrupting future generations of Americans, imposing job-killing rules and trampling the Constitution.
...
Mr. Obama, of course, is the great uniter — of Republicans, that is.
The GOP nominee will have the party's full support and should win "red" states like Georgia and Texas in November. But he will need more than that. He must win pivotal states like Florida and Michigan to have a shot at making Mr. Obama a one-term president.
Guess what? Mr. Romney won the Florida primary. On Tuesday, he took Michigan.
Georgia Republicans who want to win the White House should wake up and see the road map. They may be fond of Newt and Mr. Santorum today. But if victory in November is the goal, Mitt Romney should get their support in next Tuesday's Georgia GOP primary.
  