
    Today, the House voted to pass the American Rescue Plan, a historic accomplishment that will provide immediate relief and support to communities across the country. The package creates millions of jobs, cuts child poverty in half, makes health care more affordable, and will mount a nationwide vaccination effort. Congressional Democrats in the House and Senate acted with the urgency and boldness this unprecedented moment requires, knowing that families across the country are relying on their leadership to survive this pandemic. President Biden looks forward to signing the American Rescue Plan on Friday, and getting help out to the American people as quickly as possible.
Here's what they are saying about the American Rescue Plan: 
President Joe Biden: "This legislation is about giving the backbone of this nation – the essential workers, the working people who built this country, the people who keep this country going – a fighting chance...On Friday, I look forward to signing the American Rescue Plan into law at the White House – a people's law at the people's house." [Statement, 3/10/21]
Vice President Kamala Harris: "For the past 50 days, @POTUS has led our nation in getting shots in arms and getting the American Rescue Plan passed. Today, more than 90 million vaccines have been administered, and, with final passage in the House, the plan is headed to his desk for signature. Now, thanks to @POTUS' leadership, help is here." [Tweet Thread, 3/10/21]
Congressional Leaders 
House Speaker Nancy Pelosi: "This is a momentous day in the history of our country because we have passed historic, consequential and transformative legislation. We are here today to sign the enrollment – enroll the bill before it goes to the White House. In doing so, though, [enrollment] – these ceremonies are occasions to express recognition and appreciation. And first, I want to express recognition and appreciation to the President of the United States, Joe Biden. President Biden's vision and his determination were so apparent to the American people and the reason why this legislation enjoys the support of 75 percent of the American people in a strong, bipartisan way across the country. We thank him for his leadership and also for his contribution to the substance of the legislation – as well as his signature, when that comes." [Remarks, 3/10/21]
House Majority Leader Steny Hoyer: "Today is a great day for our nation. The House passed the #AmericanRescuePlan, ambitious and comprehensive legislation to deliver desperately needed relief to the American people. I look forward to @POTUS signing the bill later this week." [Tweet, 3/10/21]
House Majority Whip James Clyburn: "The House just passed the #AmericanRescuePlan, a transformative piece of legislation overwhelmingly supported by most Americans. This bill puts: shots in arms, money in pockets, children in schools, people in jobs. @POTUS will sign it into law Friday. Help is on the way." [Tweet, 3/10/21]
Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer: "The American Rescue plan is going to have an immense impact on nearly every community in America. Senate Democrats promised big, bold, urgent COVID relief for Americans across this country. And with the American Rescue Plan, we delivered." [Tweet, 3/10/21]
Senate Majority Whip Dick Durbin: "It was an honor to join @SpeakerPelosi and @SenSchumer to celebrate passage of the American Rescue Plan. This historic relief package will help millions of Americans & accelerate our fight against COVID-19. I am a proud Democrat, public servant, and American today." [Tweet, 3/10/21]
Members of the Cabinet 
Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen: "Upon taking office, I worried that many families would be haunted by the COVID economy long after the health emergency was over. But now, with the passage of the American Rescue Plan, I believe Americans will emerge from the pandemic with the foundations of their lives intact." [Tweet, 3/10/21]
Commerce Secretary Gina Raimondo: "Help is here, America! The @CommerceGov will use every tool we've got to ensure that all funds allocated to us from the #AmericanRescuePlan are used to help us build our country back better than before." [Tweet, 3/10/21]
Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack: "President Biden wasted no time fulfilling his pledge to the American people to bring substantial financial relief within the first 100 days of his Administration. Thanks to passage of the American Rescue Plan today, help is on the way. The American Rescue Plan will jolt our economy back to life, get money into the hands of struggling Americans, get our children back to school safely, get COVID-19 vaccinations out more swiftly, and get nutrition assistance to millions of food insecure Americans." [Statement, 3/10/21]
Transportation Secretary Pete Buttigieg: "Thank you, @POTUS and the leaders in Congress who made this possible. This bill will put money in people's pockets, keep transit workers employed, cut poverty, and save American lives." [Tweet, 3/10/21]
Organizations 
Matt Hildreth, Executive Director, Rural Organizing: "Today, Democrats in the House of Representatives joined their Senate colleagues by voting for the biggest boost for small towns and rural communities that we've seen in over a generation. President Biden's American Rescue Plan provides $5 billion farmers of color, who have lost 90 percent of their land over the past century because of systemic discrimination and a cycle of debt; distributes $4 billion to support the food supply chain; allocates $750 million to support the Indian Housing Block Grant program and the Indian Community Development Block Grant program; and provides $140 million to support households residing in USDA-subsidized rural properties or who participate in USDA 502 and 504 Direct mortgage programs...It's a new day in small towns and rural communities who have not only been hit hard by the pandemic but have struggled economically for years. Good policy is always good politics, and as we continue working to ensure that the implementation of this new legislation actually reaches working people in the most remote corners of the country, we will decisively show rural voters which elected officials truly have their backs." [Statement, 3/10/21]
Becky Pringle, President, National Educators Association: "With today's passage of the American Rescue Plan, we finally have the vital and comprehensive response to provide students, educators, families and hard-working Americans with the desperately needed relief in response to the COVID-19 pandemic and economic crisis. This historic legislation not only provides the resources to help every school building put in place the effective measures needed to keep students and educators safe; it also makes extraordinary investments that will lift countless children and families out of poverty and works to address the immense inequities that have systematically affected the most vulnerable students and communities of color. After months of tireless advocacy, educators gratefully applaud this bill. Now, state and local leaders must work together to ensure all students receive the support, tools and resources they need so that school buildings and college campuses can reopen — and stay open — safely and equitably." [Statement, 3/10/21]
Rob Larew, President, National Farmers Union: "In many respects, the American Rescue Plan is a positive development. In the immediate term, it provides crucial assistance for both unemployed and food insecure Americans and expedites vaccine administration in rural communities. But the bill doesn't just address our most imminently pressing economic and medical concerns – it also endeavors to change the agricultural sector for the better by redressing racial inequities in federal farm programs and increasing resilience in our food supply chain. We are extremely encouraged by the inclusion of these provisions and hope Congress follows up with additional structural reforms that move us even closer to the fair, stable food system we've envisioned for so long." [Statement, 3/10/21]
Clarence Anthony, CEO and Executive Director, National League of Cities:  "Thank you Senate Leader Chuck Schumer and House Speaker Nancy Pelosi for your leadership in advancing the American Rescue Plan, which includes much needed emergency funding and support for our nation's local governments. This is a historic, bold and unprecedented commitment to provide meaningful aid to all 19,000 municipal governments. For all cities and towns, especially small and rural communities, this emergency intervention is a game changer, as all communities want to be part of the solution to reopening and recovery." [Statement, 3/10/21]
Eric Mitchell, Executive Director, Alliance to End Hunger: "The Alliance to End Hunger applauds the passage of the American Rescue Plan Act of 2021. The ongoing health and economic crises continue to take a toll on food insecure people in the U.S. and around the world, while also putting extraordinary pressure on food systems everywhere. Passage of this legislation demonstrates the critical role addressing hunger and malnutrition plays in tackling the global health crisis." [Statement, 3/10/21]
Dr. Michelle McMurry-Heath, President and CEO, Biotechnology Innovation Organization: "The passage of this legislation is critical to getting much needed relief to those hardest hit by the pandemic, ensuring that more people in the U.S. and around the globe have access to vaccines, therapies and testing, and making sure we are better prepared for the next pandemic. BIO is supportive of many provisions in this bill that will increase our members' ability to respond – and bring an end to – the current COVID-19 crisis, better prepare us for future pandemics, and aid in our economic recovery from coronavirus-related closures. I thank lawmakers for seeing the value of investing in science and our nation's public health infrastructure to keep Americans safe today and tomorrow. BIO looks forward to working alongside this Administration and Congress to end this pandemic and create policies that fuel future biomedical innovation." [Statement, 3/10/21]
Lee Saunders, President, American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees: "Help is coming. With the House's vote today, we are just one presidential signature away from finally delivering the relief our families and communities need to emerge from this national crisis. AFSCME members, in addition to directly combating this virus through their work in public service, have been leading the fight to educate Congress and the public about the urgency of funding the front lines. On behalf of 1.4 million AFSCME members, I am grateful to Speaker Pelosi, Senate Majority Leader Schumer and their caucuses for their bold leadership and for bringing us to the cusp of this historic victory." [Statement, 3/10/21]
Jacqueline W. Fincher, MD, MACP, President, American College of Physicians: "The American Rescue Plan will help with combatting the COVID-19 pandemic. It substantially increases funding for vaccines, including money to promote education and vaccine confidence. It provides money to improve testing and contact tracing, allowing us to better detect and monitor the spread of COVID-19. The bill will also require state Medicaid programs to fully cover COVID-19 vaccines and treatments, helping to better protect vulnerable populations who rely on Medicaid coverage...Having faced and continuing to face so much worry about the health of our patients, our own personal health and what's next for the state of health in America, seeing the actions that are being taken by Congress to address these issues is very promising. As physicians treating American residents on the frontlines of health care, ACP will continue to advocate for a fair and just health care system in United States." [Statement, 3/10/21]
Jim Hoffa, General President, International Brotherhood of Teamsters: "For more than two decades, Teamster members, retirees and officials have worked tirelessly to make sure the hard-earned retirements of its members are protected," Hoffa said. "Now, as part of this bill, more than 50 Teamster pension plans – including its largest, the Central States Pension Fund – will be eligible for assistance at the outset of the bill's enactment, with more of the union's plans becoming eligible in 2022." [Statement, 3/10/21]
Patrick Corcoran, Vice President & Chief Communications Officer, National Association of Theatre Owners: "NATO applauds the passage of the American Rescue Plan by Congress and looks forward to its rapid signature into law by the President. The Plan extends critical unemployment benefits to our furloughed workers, and preserves and expands important tax relief programs that give a much needed lifeline to movie theater companies of all sizes affected by the pandemic. In particular, we are grateful for Majority Leader Chuck Schumer's efforts to provide additional funding for the Shuttered Venue Operator Grants program and open the Paycheck Protection Program to theater operators in urgent need of capital assistance. We extend our gratitude to the program's champions Senators Amy Klobuchar and John Cornyn for their tireless efforts on behalf of cinemas. We urge the Small Business Administration to move quickly to get Shuttered Venue Operators grants to the many businesses which so desperately need them." [Statement, 3/10/21]
Governors 
Washington Governor Jay Inslee: "I applaud @POTUS and congressional leaders for acting so swiftly to pass the American Rescue Plan Act. We are one step closer to the day when vaccinations are commonplace and the virus is under control." [Tweet, 3/10/21]
Pennsylvania Governor Tom Wolf: "Help is on the way. The #AmericanRescuePlan will provide Pennsylvania: $13.7 billion for state + local government, direct payments to 5.5 million households, $671 million in rental assistance. Thank you to the federal government for working hard to provide relief." [Tweet, 3/10/21]
Illinois Governor JB Pritzker: "@POTUS' American Rescue Plan will provide countless families the helping hand they deserve. I want to thank the members of the Illinois delegation who voted for this landmark package that invests in our schools, small businesses and anti-poverty programs." [Tweet, 3/10/21]
Connecticut Governor Ned Lamont: "Passage of the American Rescue Plan is a game changer for CT and the nation. President Biden pledged to all Americans that his admin would meet the challenge of this pandemic head-on using every tool at the US govt's disposal. This is a tremendous step in fulfilling that promise." [Tweet, 3/10/21]
Mayors 
Louisville Mayor Greg Fischer, President, United States Conference of Mayors (USCM): "Mayors in every corner of this nation, of every political stripe, are praising the final House passage of the American Rescue Plan. We are grateful to Speaker Nancy Pelosi for her tireless leadership and unwavering commitment to being a champion for big cities and small towns alike. Over the last year, COVID-19 has dealt our cities a triple dose of crises — a public health emergency, declining tax revenues from the economic shutdown and an overwhelming public need for essential services. Throughout these crises, mayors have never stopped fighting for our residents, and this legislation strengthens our resolve and ability to not only meet their critical needs, but to drive economic recovery. The battle is not over, but thanks to courageous vision and compassionate governance, long-delayed relief for millions is coming and recovery is now possible." [Statement, 3/10/21]
Mayor Lori Lightfoot of Chicago, Illinois: "It's a big day for the #AmericanRescuePlan with its passage in the House of Representatives. Thank you to the members of our Illinois delegation in the House who showed their support this afternoon." [Tweet, tweet, 3/10/21]
Mayor London Breed of San Francisco, California: "The American Rescue Plan provides funding for vaccinations, includes direct support for families and people in need, and helps us maintain critical services and avoid layoffs. Thank you @POTUS Biden, Vice President @KamalaHarris, and @SpeakerPelosi for your leadership! This is what happens when we have a federal government that wants to invest in the success of states and cities. The future of San Francisco and the country is brighter today as a result." [Tweet, tweet, 3/10/21]
Mayor Andy Ginther of Columbus, Ohio: "Thank you to @RepBeatty for delivering historic relief for the residents of Columbus and Franklin County with the passage of the #AmericanRescuePlan. This package will lift 11 million people out of poverty and cut child poverty in half this year, help us get our children back in school and lead a dynamic and inclusive recovery." [Tweet, tweet, 3/10/21]
Mayor Regina Romero of Tucson, Arizona: "On behalf of the @cityoftucson, I cannot overstate our gratitude to our Congressional Delegation for their tireless efforts to pass President @JoeBiden's #AmericanRescuePlan. THANK YOU!!! #Tucson is lucky to have two staunch advocates in the House in @RepRaulGrijalva and @RepKirkpatrick. These funds represent a critical lifeline to so many Tucsonans who have been negatively impacted by the economic fallout caused by the pandemic." [Tweet, tweet, 3/10/21]
Senators 
Massachusetts Senator Elizabeth Warren: "Woo-hoo! The historic COVID relief bill on its way to President Biden's desk will make a powerful difference so our families and our economy can recover from this crisis. And don't forget: people like you all across the country made this possible by making your voices heard." [Tweet, 3/10/21]
Illinois Senator Tammy Duckworth: "Democrats made this happen. $1,400 checks, extended UI benefits, rental assistance, RESTAURANTS Act funding, improving vaccine distribution, tax credit to cut child poverty in half, Democrats are working to get to the other side of this pandemic, and today, we delivered." [Tweet, 3/10/21]
Oregon Senator Jeff Merkley: "BREAKING: The House just passed the #AmericanRescuePlan, which means it is headed to President Biden's desk. I look forward to the President signing this bill on Friday so we can start getting aid to folks who are hurting across the country."
Members of Congress 
Congressmember Val Demings: "Help is on the way. This crisis is something we've never seen before, and we need to do things we've never done before. The American Rescue Plan is the most significant emergency relief legislation in American history. Because of this vote, in the coming weeks the typical family of four in Central Florida could receive $8,800 to help make ends meet during this crisis—more if they have children under six. #AmericanRescuePlan" [Tweet, 3/10/21]
Congressmember Madeline Dean: "We just passed the #AmericanRescuePlan. Here's a quick breakdown: $13.7 Billion for *Pennsylvania* including: $161 million for @MontcoPA, $81 Million for Berks County @HouseDemocrats, and @SenateDems have delivered much needed aid. We look forward to @POTUS's signature." [Tweet, 3/10/21]
Congressmember Conor Lamb: "The American Rescue Plan is now headed to the President's desk for his signature. Help is on the way & #PA17 deserves every dollar. Family budgets, union pensions, schools, transit agencies, & the airport will all be stronger because of this bill." [Tweet, 3/10/21]
  