
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate one individual and appoint 10 individuals to serve in his administration:
The President intends to nominate Karen P. Tandy of Virginia, to be Administrator of Drug Enforcement, Department of Justice. Ms. Tandy currently serves as Associate Deputy Attorney General and Director of the Organized Crime Drug Enforcement Task Force (OCDETF). Previously, she served as both Chief of Litigation in the Asset Forfeiture Office and as Deputy Chief for Narcotics and Dangerous Drugs, at the Department of Justice. Earlier in her career she served as an Assistant United States Attorney in the Eastern District of Virginia and in the Western District of Washington, where she handled the prosecution of violent crime, complex drug cases, money laundering and forfeiture cases. She earned her bachelor's degree and her law degree from Texas Tech University.
The President intends to appoint Robert Bruce Korver of Texas, to be a Member of the Cultural Property Advisory Committee (International Sales Expert), for the remainder of a three-year term expiring April 25, 2003 and an additional term expiring April 25, 2006.
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the Advisory Commission on Drug-Free Communities. The Commission advises the President through the Director of the National Drug Control Policy on matters related to the activities carried out under the Drug-Free Communities Support Program, including expanding the efforts of community anti-drug coalition activities to prevent and treat substance abuse among youth.
The President intends to appoint Judith A. Cushing of Oregon (State Organization), for the remainder of a three-year term expiring November 19, 2005.
The President intends to appoint Arthur Dean of Virginia (National Organization), for the remainder of a three-year term expiring November 19, 2003.
The President intends to appoint Dennis Griffith of California (National Organization), for the remainder of a three-year term expiring November 19, 2003.
The President intends to appoint Patricia J. Kempthorne of Idaho (Public), for the remainder of a three-year term expiring November 19, 2004.
The President intends to appoint Charles W. Larson, Jr. of Iowa (State Organization), for the remainder of a three-year term expiring November 19, 2004.
The President intends to appoint Ronald Luce of Texas (Public), for the remainder of a three-year term expiring November 19, 2004.
The President intends to appoint Flor Santalo-Sherbahn of Pennsylvania (State Organization), for the remainder of a three-year term expiring November 19, 2004.
The President intends to appoint Peggy Sapp of Florida (National Organization), for the remainder of a three-year term expiring November 19, 2004.
The President intends to appoint Loretta M. Wenger of Michigan (National Organization), for the remainder of a three-year term expiring November 19, 2004.
  