
    Today the Cleveland Plain Dealer and the Akron Beacon Journal join the Cincinnati Enquirer in urging Ohioans to vote for John Kasich in Ohio's March 15th Republican Primary Election.
Cleveland Plain Dealer
Ohio Gov. John Kasich is an experienced leader who understands the art of compromise — not just across the aisle but also within his own Republican Party when there is a moral or fiscal imperative to do so.—Like other Republican candidates, Kasich talks about jobs. But he understands that reigniting economic growth regionally and nationally involves innovation, research and, most critically, investments in education.
He's a fiscal conservative who nonetheless sees the imperative of spending on safety-net issues, including mental health, drug treatments and food aid.—Kasich is, to use the language of many who've watched the recent GOP presidential debates deteriorate into name-calling and anatomical comparisons, the adult in the room.
In other words, Kasich, 63, has all the ingredients to become president of the United States.—[K]asich is head and shoulders the best candidate in the GOP race. He deserves to win March 15. For the good of the country, he must win.
To read the full editorial, click here.
—
Akron Beacon Journal
John Kasich talks about running a race for the presidency that makes his wife, daughters and friends proud. The Ohio governor has met the mark in his pursuit of the Republican nomination. His tone and outlook offer a sharp contrast with the party's remaining contenders. He has stayed away from the crude, the bullying, the childish and the desperate. He has been the adult, as many have noted.
The governor has echoed the party of Ronald Reagan and Jack Kemp, conservative yet sunnier and elevating. Kasich now has come home, the Ohio primary on Tuesday, and he must win to have any case for continuing his candidacy.—Give the 66 winner-take-all delegates to John Kasich, and a chance remains for the best candidate now in the mix to emerge in July at the national party convention in Cleveland.
To read the full editorial, click here.
  