
    Today, Representative Brad Jones released the following open letter to the people of Massachusetts:
The Governor Romney I Know:  A Record of Conservative Leadership
On Tuesday, March 6th, the people of Massachusetts will have their say on who will represent the hard working men and women of this state against Barack Obama in the presidential election.  We won't be the first state to speak, but in an election that is this close, our voices may echo the loudest.  I believe we are presented in this primary with a clear choice that has only one right answer—Governor Mitt Romney
We're all familiar with Mitt's record. When he came into office in 2003, state government was facing a financial emergency. The state was losing thousands of jobs every month. When Mitt left four years later, the budget was balanced. A $3 billion deficit was turned into a surplus, without raising taxes or borrowing.  The unemployment rate was 4.7 percent, a level we haven't seen since. Thanks to Mitt Romney, the Massachusetts economy was at its strongest point in years.
I'm proud that Mitt is running for president. We have four candidates.  They share the same views on a lot of subjects, but there is one area where they differ, and it's a big one.  Mitt Romney has the experience of leadership and managing budgets. He has run a business, he's run the Olympics, and he ran Massachusetts as governor.  This background provides him with a unique set of qualifications to address the number one issue of our time — creating jobs and getting this economy moving again.
Not only is Mitt Romney the only Republican candidate who has the experience of executive leadership, he also recognizes that the problems that plague Washington require outside vision to solve.  We are tired of the massive growth in government regulation, of the billions of dollars in wasteful pork-barrel spending, and of the yearly deluge of thousands of earmarks for lobbyists and their friends.  Reform is desperately needed, and when you are making your decision on how to vote this Tuesday, I ask you to judge the candidates by their actions, not their words.  That is why I support Mitt Romney.
Mitt Romney was a conservative in the toughest place—Massachusetts. I know, because I fought alongside him to keep taxes low, rein in the size of government, and balance the budget.  It wasn't easy, but I know how hard Governor Romney worked for the taxpayer. He stimulated job growth, introduced education reforms that brought accountability to our schools, and took a hard stance against illegal immigration.
Our future as a nation depends on having as president a person who believes in the free market principles that built the American economy, who recognizes that our military strength should never be compromised, and who knows that a competitive America is one where taxes are low and government is small.
That's why I'm supporting Mitt Romney for president — he will make America strong and prosperous again.  I hope you'll join me.
  