
    Aimee Kathryn Jorjani of Wisconsin, to be Chair of the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation for the remainder of a four year term expiring on June 10, 2021. Originally from Milwaukee, Wisconsin, Ms. Jorjani began her career in 1999 as a legislative aide to Rep. Paul Ryan (WI-1) after graduating from Northern Michigan University in political science and public relations. In 2002, Ms. Jorjani moved to the Department of the Interior and held several positions until January 2009. During her tenure at the Interior Department, Ms. Jorjani worked for the Deputy Secretary. Between 2003 and2009, Ms. Jorjani served as Special Assistant for Historic Preservation. Ms. Jorjani was also designated as Interior's first Department-wide Historic Preservation Officer. Ms. Jorjani received a Masters in Historic Preservation in 2012 from Goucher College.
Mark Schultz of Nebraska, to be Commissioner of the Rehabilitation Services Administration, Department of Education. Mr. Schultz is a Deputy Commissioner in the Nebraska Department of Education. He previously served as the Director of Vocational Rehabilitation. In 2016, he was honored as the Nebraska Department of Education's Supervisor/Manager of the year. His prior experience includes serving as the Director of the Nebraska Assistive Technology Partnership and as a Barrier Free Design Specialist for the League of Human Dignity, a Center for Independent Living. Mr. Schultz has over 35 years of experience with the development and provision of services for people with disabilities at a national, State, and local level. He is a past President of the Council of State Administrators of Vocational Rehabilitation and a member of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act Information Technology Steering Committee. As the first member of his family to attend college, he earned a Bachelor's Degree in Architectural Studies from the University of Nebraska, Lincoln and a Master's in Public Administration from the University of Nebraska, Omaha. He and his wife, Barbara, recently celebrated their twentieth wedding anniversary.
-----
President Donald J. Trump Announces Designation of Personnel to Key Administration Post
The following individual to be Acting Under Secretary of State for Public Diplomacy:

Heather Nauert Norby of New York

  