
    Pool Reports by Matt Viser, The Washington Post 



Sent:
Reports:




March 23, 202208:32

In-town pool report #1
Hey all.
Your in-town pooler has arrived at the WH, and we are gathering.
POTUS is scheduled to depart from Marine One around 8:40am, where he’ll head to Joint Base Andrews to board Air Force One and begin a foreign trip that starts in Brussels.
It’s a 50 degree, mostly cloudy — with the sun trying to peek out — start to the morning.
Will update shortly.



March 23, 202208:57

In-town pool report #2 / brief POTUS comments
POTUS walked out and spoke briefly, responding to two questions.
He was asked about his message to world leaders, and he said he would deliver it face to face when he arrives: "All I have to say, I'm going to say it when I get there." He indicated he would talk to reporters later — "I'll be happy to talk to you guys when I get back."
Asked about how concerned he is and how high the threat of chemical warfare is, he said: "I think it's a real threat."
He then walked away and boarded Marine One, which lifted at 8:51am.
Traveling with the President on Marine One:

Jen O'Malley Dillon, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff
Mike Donilon, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President
Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President & National Security Advisor
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations
Ashley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office Operations

Handing off to out-of-town pool.



March 23, 202213:55

In-town pool report #3 / AF1 gaggle 
Flagging the gaggle has started on AF1, which is heading to Brussels. Jake Sullivan has started speaking, and will be followed by Karine Jean-Pierre. It’s being livestreamed here:
https://www.whitehouse.gov/live/




 
Pool Reports below by Christopher Cadelago, POLITICO 



Sent:
Reports:




March 23, 202209:10 EDT

Travel Pool Report #1 — JBA & Departure
Good morning from Joint Base Andrews, where it’s windy, overcast and 51 degrees.
Marie One arrived about 9:02 a.m.
President Joe Biden, in blue suit and tie, boarded Air Force One at 9:05 a.m.
Secretary of State Blinken is also on the plane (see full list below).
Principal Deputy Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre and National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan will gaggle aboard Air Force One en route to Belgium.
We will be wheels up for Brussels, momentarily.
From the White House:
Greeting the President upon arrival to Joint Base Andrews:
Colonel Matthew Jones, Commander, 89th Airlift Wing
Traveling with the President to Brussels, Belgium on Air Force One:

Secretary Tony Blinken, U.S. Department of State
Jen O’Malley Dillon, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff
Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President & National Security Advisor
Mike Donilon, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President
Kate Bedingfield, Assistant to the President & Director of Communications
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations
Karine Jean-Pierre, Deputy Assistant to the President & Principal Deputy Press Secretary
Yohannes Abraham, Deputy Assistant to the President & Chief of Staff and Executive Secretary of the NSC
Ryan Montoya, Deputy Assistant to the President & Director of Scheduling & Advance
Vinay Reddy, Deputy Assistant to the President & Director of Speechwriting
Daleep Singh, Deputy Assistant to the President & Deputy National Security Advisor and Deputy Director of the National Economic Council
Carlyn Reichel, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for Speechwriting & Strategic Initiatives
Amanda Sloat, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for Europe
Ashley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office Operations
Neera Tanden, Staff Secretary and Senior Advisor to the President
Charlie Fromstein, Director of Visits and Diplomatic Affairs
Ambassador Rufus Gifford, Chief of Protocol, U.S. Department of State
Amos Hochstein, Sr. Adv. for Energy Security, U.S. Department of State
Tom Sullivan, Deputy Chief of Staff for Policy, U.S. Department of State




March 23, 202221:23 CET

Travel Pool Report #2 — Arrival in Belgium 
Air Force One touched down at 9:04 p.m. in Brussels, Belgium. (about 6 hours in the air, plus the 5-hour time change).
National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan and Principal Deputy Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre gaggled on the flight.
Sullivan confirmed that the new sanctions regime being announced on Thursday will target political leaders and oligarchs, but he wasn’t more specific. He stressed the president is taking a vigilant approach to China and reiterated it would be a topic of discussion with European leaders.
Sullivan ruled out any new U.S. forces being sent to Eastern Europe in the near term. He also said Biden in Brussels on Friday will speak specifically about European energy solutions before he departs for Warsaw, Poland.
At 9:19 p.m., President Joe Biden stepped off the plane and walked to a long line of greeters.
From the White House:
Greeting the President upon arrival at Brussels Airport:

Prime Minister Alexander de Croo of Belgium
Ambassador Olivier Belle, Chief of Protocol of Belgium
Ambassador Michael Adler, U.S. Ambassador to Belgium, and Mrs. Judy Adler
Ambassador Julianne Smith, U.S. Permanent Representative to NATO, and Mr. David Black
Ambassador Mark Gitenstein, U.S. Ambassador to the European Union, and Mrs. Libby Gitenstein
Ambassador Rufus Gifford, Chief of Protocol of the U.S.

Getting in the vans soon and heading to Biden’s overnight location.



March 23, 202221:50 CET

Travel Pool Report #3 — Biden at RON. Lid.
The motorcade left the airport at 9:25 p.m. and drove about 8 km into Brussels, passing the Europa building. Dozens of people along the route — including a big crowd outside a brasserie — lined up to watch.
The pool dropped off Biden at his overnight and a lid was called at 9:47 p.m.
Have a great evening.



March 23, 202222:00 CET

Travel Pool Report #4 — WH statement on greeting
From a White House official:
Prime Minister Alexander de Croo of Belgium welcomed President Biden upon his arrival in Brussels. President Biden thanked the Prime Minister for Belgium’s robust support in the EU for sanctions against Russia and for ongoing coordination in providing security assistance to Ukraine.




  