
    SANTA FE -- Governor Bill Richardson today signed two major cornerstones of his clean energy agenda. Senate Bill 418 will dramatically increase New Mexico's Renewable Portfolio Standard and our use of clean electricity. House Bill 188 creates a Renewable Energy Transmission Authority to promote clean energy jobs and help New Mexico both develop our clean energy resources and market them to other states.
"I am proud today to sign a bill that will quadruple New Mexico's use of clean electricity by 2020," said Governor Bill Richardson. "Promoting renewable electricity keeps our air clean and it will help New Mexico meet my aggressive greenhouse gas reduction goals. It will also help continue to create new jobs, like those at Advent Solar in Albuquerque, and aid ranchers who want to diversify into the lucrative wind energy market."
In 2004 Governor Richardson signed New Mexico's first Renewable Portfolio Standard into law. This mandated that 5% of New Mexico's electricity come from renewable sources by 2006, increasing to 10% by 2011. Senator Michael Sanchez's Senate Bill 418 requires that at least 15 percent of an electric utility's power supply come from renewable sources by 2015 and 20 percent by 2020.
House Bill 188 – sponsored by Representative Jose Campos -- establishes a Renewable Energy Transmission Authority that will help New Mexico export solar, wind and other renewable energy and further build our high-wage, and high-tech economy. "The Transmission Authority and the Renewable Portfolio Standard work in combination to dramatically position New Mexico to develop our vast renewable energy resources," said Joanna Prukop Cabinet Secretary for Energy, Minerals, and Natural Resources. "We've just positioned our state to become extremely competitive in all aspects of clean energy development and the benefits that come with it."
Under Governor Richardson's leadership, New Mexico has become the nation's the Clean Energy State. In the past few weeks alone Governor Richardson has signed a major, five state climate change agreement, announced a new Tesla electric car plant for Albuquerque and a biodiesel plant in Clovis, NM.
"I am proud that both these bills passed with bipartisan support," said Governor Richardson. "That is because New Mexico is hungry for clean energy and the good jobs that come with this new industry."
  