
    LAST SEPTEMBER, as part of an overall program to combat inflation, I announced my intention to defer and reduce $3 billion in Federal contracts, obligations, and commitments. As the result of intensive review later in the fall, a larger amount--some $5.2 billion Federal program funds--was deferred.
I am today instructing Federal agencies to release $791 million of those deferred funds. The areas affected are:
--special mortgage assistance for low-cost housing ($250 million)
--Federal-aid highways ($350 million)
--Farmers Home Administration loans ($71 million)
--local flood protection and other projects of the Corps of Engineers ($90 million)
--reallocation of Elementary and Secondary Education Act Title I grant funds ($30 million).
In fiscal 1967, budget expenditures out of these released funds will amount to approximately $105 million.
These programs provide important benefits for the American people. Otherwise, I would not have proposed, and the Congress would not have enacted them. The deferrals and reductions undertaken last fall were put into effect as a necessary means of reducing the overheating which then threatened the American economy--not because the programs themselves were in any sense undesirable.
The deferral of Federal contracts and the other economic measures adopted last fall have had the desired effect. Inflationary pressures have subsided. As a consequence it has been possible, in a careful and orderly manner, to release some of the funds which had been deferred. Earlier this year we released $175 million of highway funds and $380 million in special assistance for low-cost and multi-family housing. Today's action brings the total of funds released to about $1.4 billion, approximately 27 percent of the total amount of funds deferred.
I have instructed Federal agencies to make the release effective on April 1. This will leave time for planning, notification to States, and other necessary administrative steps. In one case--emergency loans to farmers who have been affected by disasters--the release will become effective immediately.
A list of the funds released by the action today, and by earlier actions follows:
RELEASE OF DEFERRED FEDERAL PROGRAM FUNDS



[Millions of dollars]
1967 programs
March 17 Prior
      actions actions
Department of Transportation:
      Federal-aid highways 350 175
      Department of Housing and Ur-
      ban Development:
      Special mortgage assistance
      for low-cost housing 250 300
      Special assistance for cop-
      erative housing 50
      Special assistance for urban
      renewal housing 30
      Department of Agriculture,
      Farmers Home Administra-
      tion:
      Farm operating loans 25
      Insured rural housing loans 25
      Emergency loans 21
      Corps of Engineers:
      Local flood protection and
      other public works proj-
      ects 90
      Department of Health, Educa-
      tion, and Welfare:
      Reallocation of grant funds
      under Title I of the Ele-
      mentary and Secondary
      Education Act 30
      Totals 791 555



  