
    "Our moral duty to the taxpayer requires us to make our Government leaner and more accountable."– President Donald J. Trump
A PROBLEM IGNORED: Despite a skyrocketing debt, past attempts to point out Government waste have been ignored.

Under President Obama, our National debt grew by 88% from $10.6 trillion on January 20, 2009, to $19.9 trillion on January 19, 2017.

Every child born today inherits over $61,000 in debt.


In April 2016, the Government Accountability Office (GAO) reported that the Executive Branch and Congress failed to fully address a majority of the Government fragmentation, overlap, and duplication identified by the GAO.

The Executive Branch has failed to fully follow through 53% of the time, failing to act on 243 of the 459 GAO recommended actions to reduce bureaucratic duplication and waste.
Congress has failed to fully follow through 62% of the time, failing to act on 53 of the 85 GAO recommended actions to reduce bureaucratic duplication and waste.
In 2016, the GAO identified 92 additional actions to reduce duplication and waste.


Billions of dollars could be saved if just the previously identified problems were addressed.

TACKLING GOVERNMENT OVERLAP AND WASTE: Today, President Trump issued an Executive Order to simplify the Executive Branch to better serve the interests of the American people.

President Trump has directed OMB Director Mick Mulvaney to submit a comprehensive plan to reorganize Executive Branch departments and agencies.
Each agency and department will submit a detailed report including ideas for concrete improvements to enhance its efficiency, effectiveness, and accountability.
All Americans will be able to submit suggestions and ideas on how to make Government work better for them.
President Trump will work with Congress to put these plans and suggestions into practice to make the Government work better for all Americans.

KEEPING HIS PROMISE TO THE AMERICAN PEOPLE: President Trump promised that he would put in place common sense reforms to eliminate waste so that the Government better serves all Americans.

President Trump: "Our moral duty to the taxpayer requires us to make our Government leaner and more accountable. We must do a lot more with less."
Candidate Trump: "I will ask that savings be accomplished through common sense reforms that eliminate Government waste and budget gimmicks – and that protect, absolutely protect, hard-earned benefits for Americans."

  