
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Alex Burgos (857) 288-6390
Boston, MA – Romney for President today launched its first Spanish radio ad. The ad features Al Cardenas, the former Chairman of the Republican Party of Florida and a Chair of the Romney for President Florida Steering Committee, discussing his support for Governor Romney.
The ad is titled "Cardenas" and will begin airing today in South Florida. The English and Spanish transcripts and audio link are below.
English Script for "Cardenas" (Radio:60):
ANNOUNCER: "Al Cardenas, former Chairman of Republican Party of Florida and a Chair of the Romney for President Florida Steering Committee."
AL CARDENAS: "I want to talk to you about Mitt Romney, my candidate for President of the United States.
"This great nation needs a new dawn.
"And the leader that could bring us hope is Mitt Romney.
"Mitt Romney is the leader who rescued the Olympics after the attacks of 911 ... he is a business leader that knows how to build a solid economy.
"Mitt Romney is the Republican governor who turned around a Democratic State without raising taxes.
"It is a difficult time in the world, in the Americas, and in our Cuba in transition.
"Mitt Romney understands the dynamic of Cuba.
"He will be with us this weekend in Miami Dade attending the Republican Lincoln Day Dinner ... to talk to our community and afterwards address our leaders in exile.
"Learn more visiting MittRomney.com."
MITT ROMNEY: "I am Mitt Romney and I approve this message."
ANNOUNCER: "Paid for by Romney for President."

Spanish Script For "Cardenas" (Radio:60):
LOCUTOR: "Al Cardenas, ex Presidente del Partido Republicano de la Florida y Presidente de la Junta Directiva de Mitt Romney para Presidente."
AL CARDENAS: "Quiero hablarte sobre Mitt Romney, mi candidato para presidente de los Estados Unidos.
"Esta gran naci?n necesita un nuevo amanecer.
"Y el l?der que nos puede traer esperanza es Mitt Romney.
"Mitt Romney es el l?der que rescat? las Olimpiadas despu?s de los ataques del 9/11 ... es el l?der empresarial que sabe como construir una econom?a s?lida.
"Mitt Romney es el Gobernador Republicano que gir? un estado dem?crata sin subir los impuestos.
"Es una ?poca dif?cil en el mundo, en las Americas y en una Cuba en transicion.
"Mitt Romney entiende la dinomica de Cuba.
"El estara con nosotros este fin de semana en Miami-Dade asistiendo a la cena Republicana del dia Lincoln ... para hablarle a nuestra comunidad y luego dirigirse a los laderes en exilio.
"Conoce mas ... visita MittRomney.com."
MITT ROMNEY: "I am Mitt Romney and I approve this message."
LOCUTOR: "Pagado por Romney para Presidente."
To listen to "Cardenas", please see: http://www.mittromney.com/img/Romney-Cardenas.mp3
  