
    
  Engages students and general community at the University of Wisconsin — Madison

LAKE JACKSON, Texas — 2012 Republican Presidential candidate Ron Paul will hold another large college-campus town hall meeting, this time in Wisconsin ahead of the Badger State's Tuesday, April 3rd primary.
Dr. Paul's campus town hall meeting will take place on Thursday, March 29th at 7:00 p.m. CST at the University of Wisconsin — Madison Stock Pavilion, located at 1668 Linden Drive, Madison, WI 53706. The event is free and open to the university and general community. Doors open to the public at 6:30 p.m. To reserve your seat for the event featuring Dr. Paul and enter the venue 30 minutes earlier than the general public, please click here.
"University of Wisconsin-Madison students are not beholden to the Democrat Party or President Obama. Ron Paul attracts young people from all backgrounds, and he is the only Republican candidate who inspires voters within this and other key demographics. We're excited to bring the best, most consistent candidate and his constitutionally-limited government message to UW students and Wisconsin voters," said Edward King, National Youth Director for the Ron Paul 2012 Presidential Campaign.
Ron Paul's campus town hall meeting at the University of Wisconsin is being organized in part by 'Youth for Ron Paul' (YFP). YPF, an initiative of the Ron Paul 2012 Presidential campaign, launched in September 2011, and since its inception students nationwide have organized 591 chapters and recruited more than 51,800 people. To learn more about 'Youth for Ron Paul' including how to sign-up and establish a local chapter, visit the YFP website by clicking here.
An open press opportunity will follow Ron Paul's campus town hall meeting. Members of the local and major print, broadcast, and online media with particular needs should contact Assistant Press Secretary Arick Stall at aricks@ronpaul2012.com. Please, no exceptions.
Event details are as follows. Time is Central.
 
Thursday, March 29, 2012
7:00 p.m.
Campus Town Hall Meeting with Ron Paul
University of Wisconsin — Stock Pavilion
1668 Linden Drive
Madison, WI 53706
 
For a map to the location, please click here. To reserve your seat and enter the venue early, click here.
  