
    "That is why for me and my vote I think we need to coalesce around the person who we think is going to be the best president, who is going to deliver these kinds of reforms with the courage of conviction and the tenacity and the experience and the knowledge and the ability to do it. And who gives us the best chance of realizing this vision and putting it into practice. In my humble opinion, that person is Mitt Romney." — Rep. Paul Ryan
Remarks
Pewaukee, Wisconsin
March 31, 2012
Click Here To Listen To Congressman Paul Ryan Discuss Why He Will Vote For Mitt Romney On Tuesday
REP. PAUL RYAN: "I like the rest of you have a vote on Tuesday to make. And so I like the rest of you are thinking 'What do I do? Who's the best person?' I've known these gentlemen for years. Newt is a brilliant man. He's been a friend for a long time. He's got a big place in history. I served with Rick for years in Congress. I have nothing but good things to say about these men. But when I look at the vote I have as a Wisconsinite to make on Tuesday what goes through my mind is 'Who's going to be the best president? Who's most likely, who's most willing and able to actually deliver on these reforms that are so necessary so quickly and who has the best chance of defeating Barack Obama?' I think this primary has been helpful. I think it's been constructive. I think it's brought these issues to the fore where we're having the kind of debate we need in this country about the big ideas. But I think there comes a point where this primary can become counterproductive. Where if we keep dragging this thing on it gets us off of the mission and the goal which is this: save our country in November by replacing Barack Obama as our president. That is why for me and my vote I think we need to coalesce around the person who we think is going to be the best president, who is going to deliver these kinds of reforms with the courage of conviction and the tenacity and the experience and the knowledge and the ability to do it. And who gives us the best chance of realizing this vision and putting it into practice. In my humble opinion, that person is Mitt Romney."
  