
    'Fort Worth Star-Telegram: Biden says Texas transgender directive 'must stop' as White House moves to combat order'
In Texas and across the country, local news outlets are reporting about President Biden's strong condemnation of Texas Governor Greg Abbott's call for state officials to open child abuse investigations into families simply because they have provided access to affirming care for their children.
In a statement, President Biden made clear that "in the United States of America, we respect the rights and dignity of all families," and underscored his support for transgender Americans. "I'll always have your back as your President so you can be yourself and reach your God-given potential," said President Biden. "Jill and I are standing with the incredibly brave transgender children, their parents, and families throughout Texas and around the country, and we will continue to fight for a future where all children can thrive."
See below for excerpts of the press coverage and praise from key stakeholders: 
Washington Post: Biden accuses Texas Gov. Abbott of 'government overreach at its worst' for investigating parents of children transitioning gendersPresident Biden said Wednesday night that Texas Gov. Greg Abbott (R) was carrying out "a cynical and dangerous campaign" by directing state officials to investigate families for child abuse if they allow their children to medically transition genders. "This is government overreach at its worst," Biden said in a statement. "Like so many anti-transgender attacks proliferating in states across the country, the Governor's actions callously threaten to harm children and their families just to score political points. These actions are terrifying many families in Texas and beyond. And they must stop."
Fort Worth Star-Telegram: Biden says Texas transgender directive 'must stop' as White House moves to combat orderPresident Joe Biden on Wednesday forcefully criticized a Texas effort to investigate the parents of children receiving gender-confirming treatment, calling the directive from Gov. Greg Abbott "cynical and dangerous" while vowing to support the families in question. Biden's remarks, issued in a statement, were paired with newly released guidance from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, which directed state child welfare agencies to support LGBTQI+ youth when they seek gender-affirming health care. And it arrived almost simultaneously with a Texas judge's decision to block the state from investigating parents. "This is government overreach at its worst," Biden said in a statement. "Like so many anti-transgender attacks proliferating in states across the country, the governor's actions callously threaten to harm children and their families just to score politics points.
Dallas Morning News: As judge halts directive regarding transgender child, Biden tells Texans to file federal complaintsA Texas judge on Wednesday temporarily blocked a new state directive defining gender-affirming care for transgender children as "child abuse" in the case of a 16-year-old teenager. The temporary restraining order, which only applies to the plaintiffs in the case, came the same day that the Biden administration issued new federal guidance about the directive and urged Texans affected by it to file civil rights complaints with the federal government. "These announcements make clear that rather than weaponizing child protective services against loving families, child welfare agencies should instead expand access to gender-affirming care for transgender children," President Joe Biden said in a statement released Wednesday evening. "In the United States of America, we respect the rights and dignity of all families."
Texas Tribune: Challenges to Texas investigations of gender-affirming care ramp up as feds move to protect transgender kidsBecerra released guidance Wednesday that says refusing health care because of gender identity is illegal and that health care providers are not required to disclose information regarding gender-affirming care. President Joe Biden also released a statement Wednesday condemning Texas' actions. "This is government overreach at its worst," Biden said in a statement. "Like so many anti-transgender attacks proliferating in states across the country, the Governor's actions callously threaten to harm children and their families just to score political points. These actions are terrifying many families in Texas and beyond. And they must stop."
KCRG: Judge blocks Texas investigation of trans teen's parentsThe ruling came as President Joe Biden's administration announced new steps to protect transgender children and their families in response to Abbott's order. Biden condemned state laws targeting transgender people in his State of the Union Address Tuesday."Like so many anti-transgender attacks proliferating in states across the country, the governor's actions callously threaten to harm children and their families just to score political points," the president said in a statement Wednesday night. "These actions are terrifying many families in Texas and beyond. And they must stop."
Austin American-Statesman: Biden administration rips Abbott order on transgender care, vows to take action if neededThe Biden administration criticized Gov. Greg Abbott's order equating gender-affirming medical care with child abuse as discriminatory and dangerous — and encouraged any Texan investigated for such action to file a civil rights complaint with the federal government.
New York Post: Biden calls Texas probes of transgender kids' parents 'overreach at its worst'President Biden lambasted a Texas directive ordering child welfare investigations into parents of transgender kids who approve certain treatments for their offspring, describing it as "government overreach at its worst." "In recent days, elected leaders in Texas have launched a cynical and dangerous campaign targeting transgender children and their parents," Biden said in a statement late Wednesday.
Philadelphia Inquirer: Biden accuses Texas governor of 'government overreach at its worst' for investigating parents of children transitioning gendersPresident Joe Biden said Wednesday night that Texas Gov. Greg Abbott, R, was carrying out "a cynical and dangerous campaign" by directing state officials to investigate families for child abuse if they allow their children to medically transition genders. "This is government overreach at its worst," Biden said in a statement. "Like so many anti-transgender attacks proliferating in states across the country, the Governor's actions callously threaten to harm children and their families just to score political points. These actions are terrifying many families in Texas and beyond. And they must stop." Biden said his administration is taking several steps to protect transgender children in Texas. Among them was an invitation Wednesday by Health and Human Services Secretary Xavier Becerra for families to contact the department's civil rights office if they were "targeted by a child welfare investigation because of this discriminatory gubernatorial order."
Kevin Jennings, CEO, Lambda Legal: "President Biden's commitment to defending trans youth against the shameless, monstrous attacks being engineered by malicious and unscrupulous politicians is one of the most powerful demonstrations of why leadership matters for LGBTQ+ people. Following the president's powerful declaration this week that he has the backs of trans youth, he put his words into action — wielding the power of the federal government to put every state in the Union, including Texas, on notice that discriminating against trans youth and preventing them from accessing lifesaving medical care isn't only wrong, it is a violation of civil rights, and it won't be tolerated. Lambda Legal this week filed a lawsuit in Texas alongside the ACLU and ACLU of Texas, not only to block Texas from putting the health and safety of trans youth at risk, but to send an important message to trans kids across the state that we won't let this happen on our watch. If any families are in need of representation or advice as they navigate this hostile situation, I encourage them to contact our Help Desk and consult our FAQ. We are proud President Biden is helping us to further amplify that message of support, and Lambda Legal praises both the President and Health and Human Services Secretary Xavier Becerra for taking historic action to shield trans youth from having the child welfare system weaponized against them by leaders who have shown that they care nothing about their welfare; to emphasize the critical need to affirm and support all LGBTQ+ youth in state care; and to promote family acceptance programs that allow young people to remain safely with their parents and never enter the child protection system. We hope that these actions mark a new chapter in the federal government's approach, and that the Department of Justice and the Department of Health and Human Services will finally work with us, rather than continue to fight us in court, to reinstate other important nondiscrimination protections that were illegally rolled back during the Trump administration." [Statement, 3/3/2022]
Rodrigo Heng-Lehtinen, Executive Director, National Center for Transgender Equality (NCTE): ""President Biden and his administration are standing up for transgender kids in Texas and around the country and we grateful for their leadership. We know that gender-affirming health care saves lives, can improve mental health and reduce depression and anxiety. And yet, Gov. Abbott has put a target on transgender youth and their families. The Biden administration is making clear that this assault is discriminatory and will not stand." [Statement, 3/3/2022]
Jennifer Levi, Transgender Rights Project Director, GLBTQ Legal Advocates & Defenders (GLAD): ""Transgender kids, their parents, families and caregivers are facing a state of emergency right now. The President's robust statement of unequivocal support for transgender youth and families, and most importantly, HHS's actions stating clearly that United States law fully protects transgender children and their families from discrimination by the state puts Texas on notice that it cannot enforce Governor Abbott's directive." [Statement, 3/3/2022]
Sandy Santana, Executive Director, Children's Rights: "We agree with the President. This government overreach must stop. The assertions being made by these officials may not be legally binding, but they are politically calculated, devastatingly hurtful, and a distraction from the egregious harm being done to children right now in the badly broken Texas foster care system. Transgender children – and the parents who love them – deserve better. They deserve to be recognized and supported, respected for the choices they make, and loved for who they are. Most of all, they deserve to be together." [Statement, 3/3/2022]JoDee Winterhof, Senior Vice President of Policy & Political Affairs, Human Rights Campaign (HRC): "Today's statement from President Biden and the actions from HHS are a powerful message to transgender youth and their parents who have been demonized, threatened, and traumatized in Texas. Parents who affirm their transgender kids' identity do so because it is what is in their child's best interest. To do otherwise is both dangerous and against the recommendation of a wide range of major child welfare and medical organizations. The politicians who make the unconscionable choice to jeopardize the well-being of those children must not be allowed to succeed. We thank President Biden and HHS for taking necessary steps to help protect some of our most important and vulnerable community members - our children." [Statement, 3/2/2022]
Stacey Stevenson, CEO, Family Equality: "As an LGBTQ+ parent living and raising my sons in the Lone Star State, I am moved to see this Administration take the steps necessary to protect and support transgender youth, their parents, and families in Texas. As their actions demonstrate, we will not accept these assaults on our young people. Putting the best interest of our children first is the gold standard in parenting, medicine, and child welfare alike. We should be applauding those who work to affirm LGBTQI+ youth, not threatening them with stigmatizing and discriminatory policies. We are grateful to the Biden Administration for recognizing the value and bravery of transgender youth and families, and we commit to working alongside them and a broad coalition of advocates in continuing to fight for their right to thrive." [Statement, 3/3/2022]
Transgender Legal Defense and Education Fund (TLDEF): "Thank you, @POTUS, for putting action behind your compassionate words of support in the #SOTU. We look forward to working with you & @HHSGov to protect #trans young people, their families, & the communities that support them being their full, beautiful selves." [Tweet, 3/3/2022]
ACLU: "The federal government sent out an important reminder tonight: Federal law protects transgender people from discrimination. This includes attempts to block trans youth from lifesaving, medically necessary care." [Tweet, 3/2/2022]
PFLAG: "Thank you, @POTUS, from PFLAG families everywhere - taking action to #ProtectTransKids is critical." [Tweet, 3/2/2022]
  