
    Pool Reports by Noah Robertson, The Christian Science Monitor 



Sent:
Reports:




March 9, 202311:15

In-Town Pool Report #1: Good Morning
Hello everyone,
I'm your humble pooler today, covid-tested and waiting at the WH.
It's budget day, and the president will be in Philadelphia. That means a quiet one here in Washington, but I'll update you as necessary. Departure is scheduled for 11:50 am. We're gathering 10 minutes before that. There will be a gaggle from Principal Deputy Press Secretary Olivia Dalton aboard the first flight.
For good measure, I'm copying the full day's guidance again below. Alert me if you have any questions.
EST
9:00 AM THE PRESIDENT receives the President's Daily Briefing  Closed Press
10:55 AM Out-of-Town Pool Call Time Joint Base Andrews Overhang
11:10 AM In-Town Pool Call Time
11:50 AM THE PRESIDENT departs the White House en route to Joint Base Andrews South Lawn  Open Press (Gather 11:40 PM – Palm Room Doors)
12:10 PM THE PRESIDENT departs Joint Base Andrews en route to Philadelphia, Pennsylvania Joint Base Andrews  Out-of-Town Pool
12:55 PM THE PRESIDENT arrives at Philadelphia International Airport Philadelphia International Airport, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania  Open Press
1:20 PM THE PRESIDENT arrives at Northeast Philadelphia Airport Northeast Philadelphia Airport, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania  Out-of-Town Pool
2:30 PM THE PRESIDENT releases his Budget for Fiscal Year 2024 and delivers remarks on his plans to invest in America, continue to lower costs for families, protect and strengthen Social Security and Medicare, reduce the deficit, and more Finishing Trades Institute, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania  Open Press
4:00 PM THE PRESIDENT departs Northeast Philadelphia Airport Northeast Philadelphia Airport, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania  Out-of-Town Pool
4:25 PM THE PRESIDENT departs Philadelphia, Pennsylvania en route to Joint Base Andrews Philadelphia International Airport, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania  Out-of-Town Pool
5:10 PM THE PRESIDENT arrives at Joint Base Andrews  Joint Base Andrews  Out-of-Town Pool
5:30 PM THE PRESIDENT arrives at the White House  South Lawn  Open Press (Gather 5:20 PM – Palm Room Doors) 


March 9, 2023 11:40

In-Town Pool Report #2: Gathering
At the Palm Room doors. 


March 9, 2023 12:03

In-Town Pool Report #3: Departure, No Questions
POTUS exited the WH at 11:56 am wearing aviators and a blue suit. He waved to the pool but didn't stop for questions, despite entreaties. He saluted and boarded.
M1 lifted off at 12:01 pm.
From the WH:
Traveling with the President aboard Marine One en route to Joint Base Andrews: Director Shalanda Young, Office of Management and Budget Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations Vinay Reddy, Assistant to the President & Director of Speechwriting
Off to the travel pool now! 


March 9, 2023 12:31

In-Town Pool Report #4: Finland President Meeting
From the WH:
This morning, President Biden stopped by a meeting between President Sauli Niinistö of Finland and National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan. President Biden reiterated strong U.S. support for the accession of Finland and Sweden to NATO as soon as possible. The leaders also discussed their continued commitment to supporting Ukraine in the face of Russia's aggression. 


March 9, 2023 12:34

In-Town Pool Report #5: Five till gaggle
Per the WH:
Principal Deputy Press Secretary and OMB Director Shalanda Young will gaggle aboard Air Force One in 5 minutes 


March 9, 2023 17:22

In-Town Pool Report #6: Gathering
Back at the Palm Room doors at 5:22 p.m.


March 9, 2023 17:46

In-Town Pool Report #7: Arrival and questions
M1 landed at 5:35 p.m. POTUS exited three minutes later, saluted, and waved. He smiled at the pool and came over for a few questions.
Check all against tapes, with a fuller transcript coming.
Have you spoken to leader McConnell?
He said he'd spoken to the leader's family "I think he'll be all right."
On Xi and the Chinese foreign minister's recent sharp remarks and what the president read in them: "not much"
On Republicans saying his budget is DoA so why introduce it: he laughed and said "watch me"
On whether there were any areas for budget compromise "We'll see what the budget is" and that he was ready to meet with Republicans
"I'm ready to meet with him tomorrow if he shows me the budget"
https://otter.ai/u/ehP4Yt0X2Rf0Eem0BFs34s5f0f0 


March 9, 2023 17:49

In-Town Pool Report #8: Lid
Called at 5:45 p.m.
Still working up a transcript


March 9, 2023 18:00

In-Town Pool Report #9: Transcript
Apologies about the access issues at first on Otter – permission settings changed! Still check quotes, but this is as good as I got.
"Have you spoken to Leader McConnell?
I've spoken to his family. I think he's going to be all right.
Mr. President, on Chairman Xi's remarks and the foreign minister's remarks this week they were rather sharp and definitive going after the United States. What's your read on what that means?
Not much
Republicans say your budget is dead on arrival. Why introduce it? What do you say to that?
Watch me
What areas do you think you can find compromises with the Republicans?
Well we'll see what the budget is. I'm ready to meet with him tomorrow if he shows me the budget." 




Pool Reports below by Aurelia End, Agence France-Presse 



Sent:
Reports:




March 9, 202311:33

Travel pool report #1 - Checking in
Good morning, happy budget day! I will be your pooler for today's trip to Philadelphia.
Your pool, swept and covid-tested, is awaiting the president's departure at JBA.
Here is the WH guidance for the day. As always please feel free to get in touch if needed.
9:00 AM THE PRESIDENT receives the President's Daily Briefing  Closed Press
10:55 AM Out-of-Town Pool Call Time Joint Base Andrews Overhang
11:10 AM In-Town Pool Call Time
11:50 AM THE PRESIDENT departs the White House en route to Joint Base Andrews South Lawn Open Press (Gather 11:40 PM – Palm Room Doors)
12:10 PM THE PRESIDENT departs Joint Base Andrews en route to Philadelphia, Pennsylvania Joint Base Andrews  Out-of-Town Pool
12:55 PM THE PRESIDENT arrives at Philadelphia International Airport  Philadelphia International Airport, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania  Open Press
1:20 PM THE PRESIDENT arrives at Northeast Philadelphia Airport Northeast Philadelphia Airport, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania Out-of-Town Pool
2:30 PM THE PRESIDENT releases his Budget for Fiscal Year 2024 and delivers remarks on his plans to invest in America, continue to lower costs for families, protect and strengthen Social Security and Medicare, reduce the deficit, and more Finishing Trades Institute, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania  Open Press
4:00 PM THE PRESIDENT departs Northeast Philadelphia Airport Northeast Philadelphia Airport, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania  Out-of-Town Pool
4:25 PM THE PRESIDENT departs Philadelphia, Pennsylvania en route to Joint Base Andrews  Philadelphia International Airport, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania Out-of-Town Pool
5:10 PM THE PRESIDENT arrives at Joint Base Andrews  Joint Base Andrews  Out-of-Town Pool
5:30 PM THE PRESIDENT arrives at the White House  South Lawn  Open Press (Gather 5:20 PM – Palm Room Doors) 


March 9, 2023 12:16

Travel pool report #2 - Departure
Marine One touched down at JBA at 12:09
The president exited at 12:12, sporting his signature sunglasses.
He walked to the plane, chatting with his greeter but not taking questions from the pool.
He went up the stairs, saluted and boarded at 12:13.
Principal Deputy Press Sec Olivia Dalton will be joined by OMB Director Shalanda Young for the gaggle on board AF1
We will be wheels up shortly. 


March 9, 2023 13:13

Travel pool report #3 - Arrival at Philadelphia International Airport
Air Force One was wheels up at 12:23 and landed at Philadelphia International Airport at 12:51.
POTUS deplaned at 1:04.
He chatted for a moment with his greeters (your pooler will share the names as soon as possible)
The pool was then led to the Ospreys and your pooler did not see the president board his helo.
At 1:10 we should take off shortly.
Next stop is Northeast Philadelphia Airport.
OMB director Shalanda Young and Principal Deputy Press Secretary Olivia Dalton gaggled for approx 11 minutes.
Also sharing this, per the WH
Traveling with the President aboard Marine One from Philadelphia International Airport en route to Northeast Philadelphia Airport Landing Zone: Director Shalanda Young, Office of Management and Budget Rep. Brendan Boyle (PA-02) Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations 


March 9, 2023 13:40

Travel pool report #4 - Rolling
The president exited Marine One at 1:30 at Philadelphia Northeast Airport Landing Zone and entered the Beast after a quick chat with his greeters (see below)
At 1:33 the motorcade is rolling to the Finishing Trades Institute where the president will deliver his remarks on the budget.
Per the WH, details on greeters and travelers:
Greeting the President upon arrival at Philadelphia International Airport:
Former Congressman Bob Brady
Greeting the President upon arrival at Northeast Philadelphia Airport Landing Zone:
Governor Josh Shapiro, Pennsylvania  Lori Shapiro, Spouse of Governor Josh Shapiro
Traveling with the President via motorcade en route to Finishing Trades Institutes:
Governor Josh Shapiro, Pennsylvania Director Shalanda Young, Office of Management and Budget Rep. Brendan Boyle (PA-02) Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations Vinay Reddy, Assistant to the President & Director of Speechwriting Emmy Ruiz, Assistant to the President & Director of Political Strategy & Outreach Ben LaBolt, Assistant to the President & Director of Communications Rob Flaherty, Deputy Assistant to the President & Director of Digital Strategy Olivia Dalton, Deputy Assistant to the President & Principal Deputy Press Secretary & Senior Advisor John McCarthy, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the Counselor to the President Travis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director Ryan Harper, Special Assistant to the President & NSC Deputy Chief of Staff 


March 9, 2023 13:59

Travel pool report #5 - Finishing Trades Institute
The motorcade reached the Finishing Trades Institute at 1:42 after an uneventful ride.
We did not see the president exit his car.
The pool is now holding until the remarks start.
Some color from the venue:
Behind the podium are a variety of signs: « Union strong", "Investing in America"´ "Jobs" and "Philly".
There a few rows of chairs and also people waiting for POTUS on a yellow staircase.
(I will tweet a picture)
At 1:55 Gov Shapiro started speaking.
The president's remarks will stream live on the WH website.
Sharing this from the WH
Participating in a greet with the President at Finishing Trades Institute:
Jimmy Williams Jr., President of the International Union of Painters and Allied Trades (IUPAT) Francis McLaughlin, Business Manager and Secretary Treasurer of the IUPAT District Council 21 Jimmy Williams Sr., Former President of the IUPAT 


March 9, 2023 14:08

Travel pool report #6 - Speaking program
Per the WH
In attendance for the President's release of his Budget for Fiscal Year 2024 and remarks on his plans to invest in America, continue to lower costs for families, protect and strengthen Social Security and Medicare, reduce the deficit, and more:
Members of the International Union of Painters and Allied Trades (IUPAT), union leaders, local elected officials, and community members
Speaking Program Governor Josh Shapiro, Pennsylvania Rep. Brendan Boyle (PA-02) Geovanny Brito Quiñones, 4th year Drywall Finishing Apprentice at the Finishing Trades Institute The President
Also sharing this note from the White House:
Participating in a photoline with the President at Finishing Trades Institute:
Governor Josh Shapiro, Pennsylvania Rep Brendan Boyle (PA-02) Speaker Joanna McClinton, Pennsylvania House of Representatives Pennsylvania Senator Sharif Street (District 3) 


March 9, 2023 15:10

Travel pool report #7 - Remarks conclude
The president started speaking at 2:15 PM.
Remarks concluded at 3:08 and Potus is now mingling with the crowd. 


March 9, 2023 15:43

Travel pool report #8 - Mingling
After shaking hands, chatting and posing for numerous pictures or selfies, the president left the room where he delivered his remarks at 3:38 pm. 


March 9, 2023 16:01

Travel pool report #9 - Rolling
At 3:59 pm the press bus joined the motorcade and we are now rolling to Philadelphia Northeast Airport. 


March 9, 202316:18

Travel pool report #10 - Helo
At 4:08 PM the motorcade reached Philadelphia Northeast Airport.
When the pool bus arrived the Beast was
positioned next to Marine One.
We then rushed to the Osprey and your pooler did not see the president board his helo.
At 4:13 we will take off shortly.
A few onlookers along the way, taking pictures or filming with their phones.
Your pooler saw one man holding a black sign with a middle finger drawn on it.
Next stop is Philadelphia International Airport 


March 9, 202316:37

Travel pool report #11 - Leaving Philly
Our pool took place under the wing of Air Force One at 4:29 pm as Marine One was rolling on the tarmac at Philadelphia International Airport.
The president exited at 4:33 pm.
He went straight to the plane and boarded at 4:34 pm.
We will be wheels up shortly
Also sharing this note from the WH
Traveling with the President aboard Marine One from Northeast Philadelphia Airport Landing Zone en route to Philadelphia International Airport:
Director Shalanda Young, Office of Management and Budget Rep. Brendan Boyle (PA-02) Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations Jimmy Williams Jr., President of the International Union of Painters and Allied Trades (IUPAT) 


March 9, 202317:27

Travel pool report #12 - Back at JBA
Air Force One landed at 5:08 pm.
The president got out at 5:19 pm together with Rep Brendan Boyle and walked over to Marine One.
The helicopter lifted at 5:26 pm
Handing over to the in-town pool, enjoy this clear and rather chilly evening.
Three additional notes:
During the flight OMB director Shalanda Young came back for a brief OTR chat.
Also sharing this from the WH
Traveling with the President aboard Air Force One en route to Joint Base Andrews:
Director Shalanda Young, Office of Management and Budget Rep. Brendan Boyle (PA-02) Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff Vinay Reddy, Assistant to the President & Director of Speechwriting Emmy Ruiz, Assistant to the President & Director of Political Strategy & Outreach Ben LaBolt, Assistant to the President & Director of Communications Rob Flaherty, Deputy Assistant to the President & Director of Digital Strategy Olivia Dalton, Deputy Assistant to the President & Principal Deputy Press Secretary & Senior Advisor John McCarthy, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the Counselor to the President Travis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director Ryan Harper, Special Assistant to the President & NSC Deputy Chief of Staff Jimmy Williams Jr., President of the International Union of Painters and Allied Trades (IUPAT)
And finally:
Traveling with the President aboard Marine One en route to the White House:
Director Shalanda Young, Office of Management and Budget Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff Vinay Reddy, Assistant to the President & Director of Speechwriting Emmy Ruiz, Assistant to the President & Director of Political Strategy & Outreach 



  