
    Ahead of the Michigan Presidential Primary on March 10th, UNITE HERE! Local 24/Midwest Joint Board members have endorsed Vice President Joe Biden for the Democratic Nominee
At their March 3rd membership meeting, Unite HERE! Local 24 members endorsed Joe Biden in his run for the Presidency of the United States.
Unite HERE! Local 24 represents over 7,000 working people in the city of Detroit and across the state of Michigan. These workers are banquet workers, restaurant workers, cooks, casino workers, housekeepers, hotel workers, stadium workers, airport workers and more.
"Local 24's members know what it means to fight for their healthcare, wages, and benefits over decades. And we know that Vice President Joe Biden has dedicated his whole life to fighting beside us, driving real concrete progress on the issues that matter most to working families," said Nia Winston Unite HERE! Local 24 President when talking about Local 24's endorsement of the former Vice President.
"Joe Biden will never let anyone scrap all the hard work we've done to earn life-changing benefits at the negotiating table or on the picket line. He's a trusted ally who will fight to protect and expand on the Affordable Care Act, improving on the health coverage we now have and driving down the cost of care. We know that Joe will stand with workers, encourage collective bargaining, and crack down on employers who try to block unions. And we know that Joe is the only candidate in this race with the broad coalition and chops to beat Donald Trump and unite this country to get big things done for all working families."
UNITEHERE! Local 24 has a very active membership in Detroit and plans, with this endorsement, to turn voters out for Vice President Biden in the March 10th Democratic Primary in Michigan.
Biden for President has previously announced more than 1,500 endorsements from national, state, and local leaders, including current and former U.S. senators and representatives, governors, state elected officials, community leaders, and national security professionals.
  