
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Kevin Madden (857) 288-6390
Boston, MA – Governor Mitt Romney today announced the endorsement of former Secretary of State and former Mayor of Orlando Glenda Hood. She will serve as Co-Chair of his Florida Statewide Steering Committee and Chair of the Florida Municipal Elected Officials and Community Leaders Committee.
"I am very pleased to have Glenda join our strong and growing team in the Sunshine State," said Governor Romney. "Glenda's wealth of experience as an accomplished leader at the local, state and federal levels will be a tremendous asset in Florida as we work to bring real change to Washington. I look forward to continuing to vigorously campaign in Florida and investing the time and resources necessary to secure victory here."
Hood joins a respected team of leaders on the Florida Steering Committee, led by former Lt. Governor Toni Jennings, former Speakers of the House Allan Bense and John Thrasher, former Chairman of the Republican Party of Florida Al Cardenas and U.S. Congressman Tom Feeney.
"I am proud to support Governor Romney and will work hard to spread his fresh and optimistic vision for America to Floridians across the state," said Glenda Hood. "He is the true conservative in this race, committed to strengthening our families, our military, our economy and our individual liberties. Our country is at a crossroads right now, and Governor Romney's agenda of innovation and transformation is the right direction for America."
Background On Glenda Hood, Co-Chair Of The Florida Steering Committee:
Glenda Hood Is A Former Florida Secretary Of State And Former Mayor Of The City Of Orlando. Glenda Hood was appointed by former Governor Jeb Bush to lead the Florida Department of State from 2002 – 2005. She was charged with a variety of tasks, including ensuring the integrity of Florida's elections system, crafting the state's Strategic Plan for Economic Development and preserving the state's arts, history and culture. Previously, Hood was the first woman elected Mayor of Orlando, serving three terms. Shortly after September 11, 2001, Governor Bush appointed her to chair the Florida Domestic Security Advisory Task Force. Additionally, Hood has served as President of the National League of Cities and the Florida League of Cities and Chairman of the Board of the Florida Chamber of Commerce. Currently, she is President and CEO of Hood Partners, LLC and serves on corporate and non-profit boards at the national, state and local levels.
  