
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Kevin Madden (857) 288-6390
Boston, MA – Today, South Florida business and civic leader Jorge L. Arrizurieta was named a member of Governor Mitt Romney's Latin American Policy Advisory Group, where he will focus on trade issues. Formed last month, this group fosters discussion on issues vital to America's relations with Latin America.
"I am pleased to welcome Jorge Arrizurieta to Governor Romney's Latin American Policy Advisory Group," said Al Cardenas, Romney for President Florida Steering Committee Chair. "For more than 20 years, Jorge has been an effective champion for South Florida in both the public and private sectors. His wide-ranging national and international expertise will bring additional depth and insight to this impressive group."
Joining the Latin American Policy Advisory Group, Jorge L. Arrizurieta said, "I am proud to be joining Governor Romney's campaign to help him craft the policies needed to advance the United States' trade relations with Latin America. He is a leader – not only on the national level, but also in the international arena as a former President of the 2002 Winter Olympics – and the only candidate who has laid out a comprehensive plan to guide our country's relations with the Americas."
Background On Jorge L. Arrizurieta:
Jorge L. Arrizurieta Is Chair Of The International Policy Group At The Miami Law Firm Akerman Senterfitt. In 2003, Governor Jeb Bush named him chief executive of Florida Free Trade Area of the Americas Inc. (FTAA), where he developed and implemented strategies for securing Miami as the site of the Permanent Secretariat of the FTAA. In this role, Arrizurieta served as the lead spokesperson and liaison for Florida FTAA's Board of Directors and successfully raised substantial funds in support of the organization's goals. Previously, he was nominated by President George W. Bush and confirmed to serve as the 10th U.S. Alternate Executive Director of the Inter-American Development Bank. He has also served as U.S. Alternate Executive Director of the Inter-American Investment Corporation and represented the U.S. on the Multilateral Investment Fund's Donors Committee. Arrizurieta is a founding member of the Interamerican Ethanol Commission, an organization created to foster awareness of the benefits of renewable fuels to economies throughout the Americas. He is also a member of Governor Romney's Florida Statewide Finance Committee.
  