
    Today, President Donald J. Trump announced his intent to nominate judicial nominees as follows:
Michael S. Bogren of Michigan, to serve as District Judge on the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Michigan. Michael Bogren is Chairman of Plunkett Cooney P.C.'s Board of Directors and the Managing Partner in the firm's Kalamazoo, Michigan, office. His practice focuses on representing municipalities in both Federal and State courts, including First Amendment, zoning, and employment matters. He also serves as village attorney for the Village of Hopkins, Michigan. Mr. Bogren received his J.D., cum laude, from the University of Detroit School of Law and his B.A., cum laude, from Western Michigan University.
Jeffrey Vincent Brown of Texas, to serve as District Judge on the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Texas. Jeffrey Brown is a Justice on the Supreme Court of Texas, where he has served since 2013. Before joining the Supreme Court of Texas, he served as a justice on Texas' Fourteenth Court of Appeals and as a judge on the State's 55th District Court. Previously, Justice Brown was an attorney in private practice. After graduating from law school, Justice Brown clerked for Justices Jack Tower and Greg Abbott of the Supreme Court of Texas. Justice Brown received his J.D., magna cum laude, from the University of Houston Law Center, where he was an Editor on the Houston Law Review. He received his B.A. from the University of Texas at Austin.
Stephanie Dawkins Davis of Michigan, to serve as District Judge on the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Michigan. Stephanie Dawkins is a Magistrate Judge on the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Michigan. Before being selected as a Magistrate Judge in 2016, Judge Dawkins served 18 years as an Assistant U.S. Attorney in the Eastern District of Michigan, including as Executive Assistant U.S. Attorney and in the Controlled Substances Unit. Before joining the U.S. Attorney's Office, Judge Davis was an attorney in private practice. Judge Dawkins received her J.D. from Washington University in St. Louis School of Law and her B.S. from Wichita State University.
Brantley Starr of Texas, to serve as District Judge on the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Texas. Brantley Starr is the Deputy First Assistant Attorney General of Texas. In that capacity, he oversees nearly two dozen divisions of the Office of the Attorney General of Texas. He previously served in a variety of positions in Texas State government, including as Deputy Attorney General for Legal Counsel, Assistant Solicitor General, Assistant Attorney General, and Staff Attorney to Supreme Court of Texas Justice Eva Guzman. Early in his legal career, Mr. Starr clerked for Justice Don Willett of the Supreme Court of Texas. Mr. Starr received his J.D. from the University of Texas School of Law and his B.A, summa cum laude, from Abilene Christian University.
  