
    Following the signing ceremony yesterday, the President met with President Izetbegovic of Bosnia-Herzegovina. The two leaders discussed next steps following yesterday's agreements. The President told President Izetbegovic that the United States will work with the European Union and other states to provide economic assistance for the rehabilitation and reconstruction of Bosnia. The President also told the Bosnian President that the United States is prepared to sign a bilateral assistance agreement establishing a framework for future technical and economic assistance.
The President confirmed that the United States would reopen our Embassy in Sarajevo in the near future. Ambassador Victor Jackovich has been resident in Vienna since last fall because of the security situation in Sarajevo. Our decision to reopen the Embassy underscores our commitment to Bosnia's security and stability. The President reaffirmed the intention of the United States to participate in the implementation of a viable peace agreement among the parties in Bosnia.
The President also met with President Tudjman of Croatia. The two leaders discussed Croatia's role in helping make the agreements signed today succeed. The United States will work with Croatia and the Bosniac-Croat Federation toward their full integration in Western political, economic, and security arrangements. The President announced that the United States is ready to sign a bilateral aid agreement to establish a framework for future technical and economic assistance for Croatia. The United States also is prepared to sign a science and technology agreement and to open negotiations on a bilateral investment treaty and a double taxation treaty.
To help alleviate the humanitarian situation and to assist Croatia to care for refugees and persons displaced as a result of the conflict, the United States will provide $2 million for the hospital partnership and $1.5 million for medical supplies.
The President announced that Croatia would be allowed to open consulates in New York, Cleveland, Pittsburgh, and Los Angeles. To further advance the contacts between our nations, the United States will double the Fulbright program and donate $50,000 worth of American studies books to the recently rebuilt American Studies Library in Dubrovnik.
The President reaffirmed United States support for the territorial integrity and sovereignty of Croatia and committed to help secure the peaceful solution to the problems of the U.N. Protected Areas (UNPA's). To this end, the United States will continue to use sanctions and other economic pressure against Serbia in the most effective way possible. We also intend to play an active diplomatic role in assisting Croatia in resolving its dispute with the Krajina Serbs.
The United States firmly believes that adherence to the highest standards of human and civil rights for Croatia's Serb community is an essential condition for the reintegration of the UNPA's. President Tudjman's stated commitments in this regard are constructive; his proposals for autonomy for Serb-majority areas provide a good basis for beginning negotiations.
  