
    "First of all, I firmly believe that [Mitt Romney] is the best person to lead our country as president and I base that on his experience. He has private sector experience. He understands the need to get the economy righted in order to continue with job creation. And, secondly, he's also been a governor is a state where he had to work closely with another party. And as we all know, that's a challenge in Washington, DC. So I think the skill sets that he's developed in those two capacities will make him a really outstanding president." — State Senator Christine Radogno
Illinois State Treasurer Dan Rutherford and State Senator Christine Radogno
"Romney Campaign Illinois Update" Press Conference Call
March 13, 2012
Click Here To Listen To The Entire Call
Highlights From The "Romney Campaign Illinois Update" Press Conference Call:
STATE SEN. CHRISTINE RADOGNO: "Thank you Treasurer Rutherford and I am pleased to be on this call today to announce my support and my endorsement for Governor Romney for President. I'm doing so for two reasons. First of all, I firmly believe that he is the best person to lead our country as president and I base that on his experience. He has private sector experience. He understands the need to get the economy righted in order to continue with job creation. And, secondly, he's also been a governor is a state where he had to work closely with another party. And as we all know, that's a challenge in Washington, DC. So I think the skill sets that he's developed in those two capacities will make him a really outstanding president. The second reason I'm endorsing him is of a rather practical nature, and that is I believe Governor Romney is the best person to put together a coalition that can actually be successful in November and put a Republican in the White House. I also want to mention that we have a number of Republican Senators who have joined me in endorsing him. Senator Dave Luechtefeld, from deep southern Illinois; Senator John Millner, who is a suburban Republican; Senator Sue Rezin, who is what we might call an ex-urban Republican; Senator Dale Righter, from east central Illinois; and Senator Pam Althoff, who is from northern Illinois." 
  