
    "For former Senator Santorum, a fair and democratic majority vote in favor of statehood is not enough. He demands more, but doesn't say what would satisfy him. Democracy does not work that way.  Statehood is not automatic, nobody seriously says it is, but it is our right as American citizens to claim for it and a majority vote for statehood is a vote to initiate the process." — Jenniffer González-Colón
"Puerto Rico GOP Leader Jenniffer González rejects Santorum's posture on Statehood"Announces her full support for Mitt RomneyPress ReleaseMarch 15, 2012
San Juan- The vice chairwoman of the Republican Party in Puerto Rico and Speaker of the Island's House of Representatives, Jenniffer González-Colón, strongly rejected GOP Presidential contender Rick Santorum's dismissal of the importance of a majority vote for statehood in a referendum to be held during next November's general election.
"For former Senator Santorum, a fair and democratic majority vote in favor of statehood is not enough. He demands more, but doesn't say what would satisfy him. Democracy does not work that way.  Statehood is not automatic, nobody seriously says it is, but it is our right as American citizens to claim for it and a majority vote for statehood is a vote to initiate the process," stated González-Colón, who personally confronted Santorum today about his expressions on the conditions for statehood, including those related to the use of English as sole language of public affairs.
González, who is also Vice Chairwoman of the local pro-statehood party (NPP), added: "Yes, it took Hawaii 19 years and Oklahoma 18 years from first referendum to statehood, but the point is the people were heard and the process was started. Hundreds of thousands of Puerto Ricans have fought and died in America's Armed Forces, without objection to what their first language was, but now we hear their votes will count for choosing a candidate but not for choosing our future?  Our votes matter, period, and I will be using mine this Sunday to ensure that Mitt Romney is our next president."
  