
    Pool Reports by Eugene Daniels, POLITICO 



Sent:
Reports:




March 31, 202113:35

VP Pool #1 - Background
Hey there from a rainy WH!
VP pool is gathered in the VP's ceremonial office for the Harris event.
This afternoon, the VP is hosting a round table with faith leaders in her ceremonial office in the EEOB.
From guidance:
The Vice President will convene a roundtable discussion with faith leaders on their efforts to encourage communities to take the COVID-19 vaccine. There will be four in person attendees with five virtual and on screen.
Participants:
In person

Bishop Marian Budde, Episcopal Church
Rev. Leah Daughtry, The House of the Lord Churches
Rev. Walter Kim, National Association of Evangelicals
Sr. Donna Markham, Catholic Charities USA

Virtual

Dr. Amos Brown, Pastor, Third Baptist Church of San Francisco
Rev. Cannon Rose Duncan, Washington National Cathedral
Rev. Eli Valentin, National Latino Evangelical Coalition
Rev. Dr. Howard-John Wesley, The Alfred Street Baptist Church
Dr. Barbara Williams-Skinner, National African American Clergy Network




March 31, 202113:51

VP Pool #2 - pool just left
Vice President spoke to the group for just under 10 minutes. And the pool was ushered out.
She said she wanted to talk to leaders about making sure people got vaccines, voting rights, AAPI violence and hate, and the Northern Triangle.
Event is still going.
Sending full quotes in a few.



March 31, 202114:22

VP POOL 3 - full quotes
As always, check against transcript.
"These have been such difficult times dark times where I think many and sometimes even including myself, it has challenged our faith, our belief in what is possible. Our question about why is this happening. And you all, Throughout this time have as you always do been a source of strength, a source of comfort, source of counsel. You have worshiped with families virtually or in person who have experienced tremendous loss. As our faith leaders, you have been housing the homeless. You have been feeding the hungry. This is what you do. And over this last year in particular, it has stretched the resources that are not only financial and physical but spiritual. Yet you are unwavering."
Covid vaccinations:
"We are we are seeing light that also comes from the work that we have a responsibility to do as elected leaders around for example the American rescue plan and the 1400 dollar checks and lifting half of America's children out of poverty. We're so excited about that. work we are doing to hopefully help people survive through this, so they can get back up on their feet so we see light at the end of the tunnel and in large part because of the vaccinations that are happening. And so I want to talk with you about your thoughts about how we can, and you in particular as our faith based leader help us to make sure that everyone, when it is their turn, get the vaccine."
Says she wants to discuss Hate crimes in America:
"What we need to do and collectively what we can do informeed by you around hate crimes in America. What we are seeing around people turning on each other And what we have the ability to do t see this moment of crisis in that regard as also an opportunity for coalition building."
Northern Triangle work:
"I'm doing work on the northern Triangle" says she was late because "I was just meeting with our Secretary of State and I know that a lot of you are working on this issue in many ways, but to the extent that you have gone thoughts and experiences about what we can do to address the root causes that cause people to flee their homes ... Because as we all know most people like being at home. They like being where they grew up, they like being in a place where they understand the culture it is part of their culture they speak the language. So we have to ask why do people leave, and usually they leave because there is a lack of opportunity, or it is just not safe. And so my area of focus on the Northern Triangle is to deal with some of those issues."
The right to vote:
"And then I would like to also share with you the concerns that I think many of us have about ensuring the right to vote. And what we can do to talk with folks and remind them of that vote being an expression of their being. It's about validation in so many ways of one's voice, and one's self determination and one's ability to have some influence on what happens to their lives. And then what happens if we deprive people of that power, and that ability to express themselves."




  