
    President Donald J. Trump today announced a key addition to his Administration.
Mr. John Ullyot will serve as Assistant Secretary of Veterans Affairs (Public and Intergovernmental Affairs). Mr. Ullyot currently serves as Managing Partner at Brighton Strategy Group. He previously served as Director of Communications of the United States Senate Armed Services Committee and as Director of Communications of the United States Senate Veterans' Affairs Committee. Mr. Ullyot has held senior communications positions with Hill+Knowlton Strategies, AOL Europe, and Intel Corporation. A former intelligence officer and Scout Sniper Platoon Commander in the United States Marine Corps, Mr. Ullyot received his Bachelor of Arts in Government-International Relations from Harvard University.
---
President Donald J. Trump Announces Intent to Nominate Personnel to Key Administration Posts
President Donald J. Trump today announced his intent to nominate key additions to his Administration.
If confirmed, Kevin K. McAleenan will serve as Commissioner of U.S. Customs and Border Protection at the Department of Homeland Security. Mr. McAleenan has served as the Deputy Commissioner since 2014 and currently functions as the agency's Chief Operating Officer and senior career official. Under Mr. McAleenan's leadership, U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) has developed strategies that protect the Nation's borders from terrorism, and attack transnational criminal networks, while ensuring the flow of legal commerce and travel. Mr. McAleenan previously held several leadership positions at CBP—including launching its Office of Antiterrorism—and one of its legacy agencies. In 2015, Mr. McAleenan received a Presidential Rank Award, which is the Nation's highest civil service award. He received his Juris Doctor degree from the University of Chicago Law School and a Bachelor of Arts from Amherst College.
If confirmed, Mira Radielovic Ricardel will serve as Under Secretary of Commerce for Export Administration. Ms. Ricardel currently serves as Special Assistant to the President and Associate Director for Presidential Personnel. She has had an extensive career in the national security arena in both the public and private sectors. Within the Department of Defense, Ms. Ricardel held the positions of Acting Assistant Secretary of Defense and Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for International Security policy and Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Eurasia, and was awarded the Department of Defense Medal for Distinguished Public Service. Ms. Ricardel also served as Legislative Assistant for Arms Control and Foreign Policy to Republican Leader Bob Dole. From 2006–2015, Ms. Ricardel held senior leadership positions within Boeing Defense Space and Security, most recently Vice President, International Business Development, Network & Space Systems, where she led the business unit's marketing and growth strategies for international markets. She holds a Bachelor of Science in Foreign Service from Georgetown University and completed doctoral course work at the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy.
  