
    Former Lynch Finance Director Joins Team; Director of Online Organizing, Political Assistant Also Hired
CONCORD, NH -- The Clinton presidential campaign announced today it has hired Sarah Nolan to serve as the Political Director for Senator Clinton's New Hampshire campaign. In addition, Sarah Foy has been hired as the Director of Online Organizing and Colin Pio will be the Political Assistant.
"We are thrilled to have these talented, young people on board," said Clinton State Director Nick Clemons. "Their combination of New Hampshire experience, relationships and political talent bring a tremendous amount to the table."
Prior to joining Clinton, Nolan served as the Finance Director for Governor John Lynch's 2006 re-election effort. A New Hampshire campaign veteran, Nolan organized the Seacoast area for Howard Dean's primary campaign and Nashua for the New Hampshire Democratic Party during the 2004 general election. In addition to her political experience, Nolan has managed a motel in Rye, NH and worked in real estate.
"I am honored to be a part of this incredible team and ready to get to work on what is going to be an amazing campaign here in New Hampshire and across the country," said Nolan.
Foy, a 2001 Dartmouth graduate, returns to New Hampshire, having formerly served as the assistant to the General Election Campaign Manager with the DNC in 2004 and most recently as an Internet consultant with Senator John Kerry's Political Action Committee Keeping America's Promise. She has also had experience as a project manager with the national youth service organization CityYear, Inc.
Foy and Nolan will be joined by Political Assistant Colin Pio, who worked on Governor John Lynch's 2006 re-election campaign as a finance assistant. Pio, who is a senior at St. Anselm College in Manchester, recently helped organize the Governor's Inaugural Ball in January. He was an active college volunteer for Howard Dean's presidential campaign in 2003, and is a former summer camp instructor and an Eagle Scout of the Boy Scouts of America.
Nolan, Foy and Pio will be joining previously announced Clemons, Senior Advisor Liz Purdy and Communications Director Kathleen Strand.
  