
    Verona, PA - Former Governor Mitt Romney often says that RomneyCare was right for his state, but its copy ObamaCare is not right for the nation as a whole. His words in both print and on tape tell a very different tale that he will not be able to shake no matter how hard he tries.
Hogan Gidley, National Communications Director, said: "Is anyone really surprised that Governor Romney would take a certain position at one point, then take a different one later? While government mandates may be have been fashionable to moderates like Mitt Romney, government mandates have never been fashionable to true conservatives. There is no escaping that fact that Governor Romney was publicly advising President Obama to follow his example of forcing people to buy healthcare in Massachusetts. And if we nominate a candidate who forfeits all credibility on this huge issue, then we forfeit our chances in this huge election."
As uncovered by Buzzfeed.com's Andrew Kaczynski, Romney authored a 2009 opinion piece for USA Today where he touted RomneyCare as a model for the nation.
Mitt Romney's Advice For ObamaCare: Look At RomneyCare
Mitt Romney was once touting his plan to Obama as a model for health care reform. He didn't mention keeping it at the state level.
By: Andrew Kaczynski, Buzzfeed.com
http://www.buzzfeed.com/andrewkaczynski/mitt-romneys-advice-for-obamacare-look-at-romney
Republican Presidential frontrunner Mitt Romney often fends off the attacks comparing the similarities between the plan he signed in Massachusetts in 2006 and ObamaCare by saying he took a federalist approach. The former Massachusetts Governor says his plan was done on a state level, where the central theme to both plans, the individual mandate, was a actually a conservative approach.

But in a July 2009 op-ed in USA Today Romney thought the President could learn a thing or two from the plan he signed into law Massachusetts including the using the individual mandate as incentive for people to buy insurance.
Romney did not stop there though. In two separate appearances on NBC's "Meet The Press," Romney argued in favor of a national individual healthcare mandate. In 2007, Romney said that Massachusetts took the "best path" and that the nation would soon take the mandate "approach."
Then in 2009, during the ObamaCare debate, Romney argued again on Meet the Press that the Bennett/Wyden model would be a good option - a plan that also included an individual healthcare mandate.
  