
    Tonight, Virginia Congressman Don Beyer released the following statement thanking Pete Buttigieg and endorsing Joe Biden for President of the United States:
"I want to thank Pete Buttigieg for his thrilling and historic candidacy. Pete and his brilliant team accomplished things no one would ever have thought possible for the mayor of a small city in Indiana. Pete, Chasten, and Team Buttigieg are wonderful people who have so much to be proud of. I remain honored to call Pete Buttigieg my friend, and look forward to what he will accomplish in time to come.
"The 2020 presidential election is the most important of my lifetime. Our nation is at a crossroads, and the question of who the best person is to lead us forward now is, for me, an easy and direct one. Donald Trump has defined himself through lies and cruelty, and governed through chaos. Democrats must counter his bad character by nominating a man with heart, strength, and a steady hand.
"Joe Biden is a statesman who has been tested by years of public service as a Senator and as the Vice President and most trusted counselor of President Barack Obama. He has the experience necessary to achieve progress and deliver results, and the ability to unite our party's broad coalition and lead us to victory in November. As Virginians weigh their choices in Tuesday's primary, I give my endorsement to Vice President Joe Biden."
Congressman Beyer adds to the flood of high-profile endorsements Biden has earned from Virginia leaders in recent days, including former Governor Terry McAuliffe, Senator Tim Kaine, and Congresswoman Jennifer Wexton, and Congressman Bobby Scott. He also joins more than 50 leaders from across the state backing Biden, including Congressman Donald McEachin, Congresswoman Elaine Luria, Richmond Mayor Levar Stoney, Roanoke Mayor Sherman Lea, Virginia State Senate Majority Leader Dick Saslaw, and other state legislators and local leaders.
Last November, Biden endorsed 23 local candidates in some of the most competitive districts ahead of Virginia's General Assembly elections, helping turn both legislative chambers blue. In 2018, he also worked to elect candidates up and down the ballot in Virginia, including now-Reps. Abigail Spanberger, Jennifer Wexton, and Elaine Luria, whose wins in critical Red to Blue districts helped Democrats take back the U.S. House.
Biden for President has previously announced more than 1,400 endorsements from national, state, and local leaders, including current and former U.S. senators and representatives, governors, state elected officials, community leaders, and national security professionals.
  