
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate one individual, appoint ten individuals and designate one individual to serve in his Administration:
The President intends to nominate Linda M. Springer, of Pennsylvania, to be Director of the Office of Personnel Management. Ms. Springer recently served as Controller and Head of the Office of Federal Financial Management in the Office of Management and Budget. Prior to joining the Administration, she was Senior Vice President and Controller of Provident Mutual. Earlier in her career, Ms. Springer served as Vice President and Product Manager for Penn Mutual Life Insurance Company. She received her bachelor's degree from Ursinus College.
The President intends to appoint John Belle, of New York, to be a Member of the Commission on Fine Arts, for a four-year term.
The President intends to appoint Herbert F. Ames, of South Carolina, to be a Member of the National Capital Planning Commission, for the remainder of a six-year term expiring January 1, 2011.
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the Advisory Committee to the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, for the remainder of a three-year term expiring February 19, 2008:
A. Norman Crowder, III of Florida (Employee Representative)
Robert Gordan of California (Employee Representative)
Leopoldo E. Guzman of Florida (Public Representative)
The President intends to designate James E. Nevels, of Pennsylvania, to be Chair of the Advisory Committee to the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, for the remainder of a three-year term expiring February 19, 2007.
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Access Board, for the remainder of a four-year term expiring December 3, 2008:
Tricia Mason of Wyoming
Philip G. Pearce of Texas
Daniel O. Rios of Texas
John O. Woods, Jr. of Virginia
The President intends to appoint Charles M. Younger, of Texas, to be a Member of the Board of Visitors to the United States Military Academy, for the remainder of a three-year term expiring December 30, 2007.
  