
    Pool Reports by Jannelle Calderon, The Nevada Independent 



Sent:
Reports:




March 15, 202115:23

Second Gentleman pool report #1
Hello there, reporting from Las Vegas, first VP and SG stop in the Help is Here tour?.
Second Gentleman Doug Emhoff arrived at Three Square Food Bank at 12:20 p.m.
On the schedule is a tour of the facility and warehouse with Jodi Tyson, VP of Strategic Initiatives and Brian Burton, President and CEO of Three Square. And a listening session with members of the Las Vegas community that have been affected by food insecurity and
Three Square is Southern Nevada's only food bank, and area's largest hunger relief organization, serving four counties—Clark, Lincoln, Esmeralda, and Nye.



March 15, 202115:45

Second Gentleman pool report #2
As touring the facility, Tyson and Emhoff discuss the Las Vegas area's unemployment and food insecurity during the pandemic and how Three square has adapted to meet the need.
Emhoff asked Tyson how she is doing while dealing with all the difficulties brought the past year.
"Thanks for all you do," Emhoff said to Tyson as her voiced cracked.?Emhoff also thanks volunteers that are packaging food to be distributed.
Three square works with the division of welfare and supportive services that works with SNAP and other services.
The second gentleman is asking questions to learn about the resources.
"I wish you could see my smile right now. The changes we've seen already with the Biden and Harris administration- it hasn't changed my life personally but the people that we serve- I had tears in my eyes because I knew they were going to be able to go back to work and start using that money" said Robert Thompson, deputy administrator of Division of Welfare and Supportive Services.
"Even with the mask, I see your smile, I feel the passion, thank you," Emhoff replied.



March 15, 202116:18

Second Gentleman pool report #3
Time for listening session!
There are three members of the community and will the discussion will be facilitated by Brian Burton, President and CEO of Three Square.
No handshakes but joyous greetings from their seats, each six feet apart.
Emhoff told the group he's learned a lot already from the tour and is here to "listen and learn."
"It just helps me understand these issues better, I'm relaying things right back to the administration," Emhoff said.
Local dad of six, who only goes by "Art," shares his story. His three younger children are struggling with school, and looks forward for them to go back to the classroom.
Pastor Bobby Smith, of the New Beginnings Ministry, shares that his church has seen a difficult year.
"We have been overwhelmed with some of the situations, this has been one of the most depressing years of my life," Smith said.
The church has helped feed hundreds of families, helped give hope to the community, and the pastor has even taken in a couple children that their parents couldn't take care of them.
Emhoff thanks Smith for what he's doing for the community.
"It's gotta be tough to have these facilities and Kee them going. would be great to just to see folks out, and using all the resources that you have here in the community."
"You've come to the right place to start your tour because this is ground zero for the Wrecking ball of COVID, on both health and the economy," Burton said. "Because it shattered us a year ago this week, and I still get emotional."



March 15, 202116:22

Second Gentleman pool report #4
Second gentleman is now doing some photo op's with the participants before saying some remarks.



March 15, 202116:43

Second Gentleman pool report #5
Second Gentleman is answering a couple questions from the media.
He says the ARP will provide relief to the American people, including Nevadans but "may take some time" to roll out.
Emhoff could not comment if this roll out would be smoother than the last stimulus bill in previous administration. The question related to some people have not received their benefits from last stimulus package.But says"Everything I've seen is so impressive, the competence, the caring when you see the President speak about the bill and he was going the other day fully committed to roll out. fully committed to making sure that the benefits and the relief that are in this package are administered as quickly as efficiently as possible."
?That's the end of Second Gentleman's visit at Three Square.
Happy Monday!




  