
    "During the rough and tumble of this primary campaign Steve Forbes and I have had our differences on both economic and social issues -- there's no doubt about that. But, as I said Tuesday, my goal right now is to unify our party behind a confident conservative agenda to defeat Bill Clinton in November. I've said before that both Steve Forbes and Pat Buchanan have raised important issues--issues that will be part of a winning agenda this fall.
"Steve brought a lot of energy and ideas to the Republican debate. He has helped put growth at the top of our economic agenda. And he has highlighted our party's commitment to cutting taxes and overhauling our tax system. While we haven't always agreed on the specifics, we have always agreed that the Republican Party must remain committed to expanding economic growth for all Americans. 1. have campaigned on that principle; I will run this fall on that principle; and our party's platform will reflect that principle.
"President Clinton claims we have the strongest economy in 30 years, Steve and I both say he's wrong.
"Two years ago, Bill Clinton passed the largest tax increase in history, yet he seems surprised that our economy is not growing as fast as it should. He killed a family tax cut, yet he wonders why the middle class is being squeezed and families find it harder and harder to save for a better feature. He vetoed the first balanced budget in a generation -- a deficit-eliminating- budget that would have lowered the interest rates that families pay on homes, cars, and student loans -- and then he's shocked to find that a majority of Americans believe our country is headed down the wrong track.
"The Republican Party wants to move in a new direction. Our solution to a slowing economy and the middle class squeeze is an economic program based on growth: Lower taxes to let working families keep more of their hard-earned paychecks. Fundamental tax reform so Americans can file their r without an accountant or a lawyer or both. A balanced budget to stop mortgaging our children's future. Regulatory reform to unleash entrepreneurs and small business owners. And trade policies that create new opportunities for America to compete abroad.
"The fight within our party is ending -- the fight against Bill Clinton has begun. I'm grateful for Steve's support and with his help -- and the help of the American people -- we will soon replace the Clinton Crunch with a pro-growth Republican economic agenda."
-- Senate Maj: Majority Leader Bob Dole
  