
    This story first appeared in 1600 Daily, the White House's evening newsletter. Subscribe now to get breaking news from President Trump before anyone else.
Medical breakthroughs are too often held back by outdated, burdensome government rules and regulations. For President Trump, that outcome is unacceptable.
As America faces an unprecedented global threat from the Coronavirus, President Trump made another important announcement at today's White House briefing.
Today I want to share with you exciting progress that the FDA is making with the private sector as we slash red tape like nobody has ever done it before," he said. "I've directed the FDA to eliminate outdated rules and bureaucracy so this work can proceed rapidly, quickly...and, I mean, fast. And we have to remove every barrier."
President Trump: "I want to thank all Americans for pulling together"
The FDA is committed to providing regulatory flexibility and guidance during this crisis, while fulfilling its duty to ensure product safety and effectiveness, FDA Commissioner Dr. Stephen Hahn said during today's briefing.
As a result, obstacles are being cleared for American patients with incredible speed. That includes not only the race to develop a vaccine, but progress in making antiviral therapies widely available. Clinical trials for therapies to fight the Coronavirus are already underway, as well.
One thing I know about this country of ours is that we have unbelievable innovators. We have people who every day, it's their job to develop treatments for all sorts of diseases," Dr. Hahn said.
The President also announced that one existing treatment will soon be available for many patients to try. Chloroquine and its derivative, Hydroxychloroquine, are drugs commonly used to treat malaria. New research shows they may hold unique promise as potentially effective treatments for Coronavirus, too.
While people of all backgrounds unite against this invisible enemy, President Trump wants every American to know that we face this historic challenge together.
Last night, the President signed the Family First bill, which provides crucial support for our workers, small businesses, and families in the coming days. Paid sick leave and paid medical leave will be there for those affected by the virus. And more help is on the way.
Tens of thousands of tests are being performed each day and are available in all 50 states, Vice President Mike Pence announced. Access to medical equipment is being rapidly expanded to all who need it, including businesses, hospitals, and state and local leaders.
"We've literally identified tens of thousands of ventilators that can be converted to treat patients. And we remain increasingly confident that we will have the ventilators that we need as the Coronavirus makes its way across America," the Vice President said.
Once America conquers the virus, our economy will come roaring back!
WATCH: President and Vice President teleconference with governors at FEMA HQ
?
First Lady: We are all in this together	 
 


 Play 
 1:00
A Message from First Lady Melania Trump 

   A Message from First Lady Melania Trump 
Americans are making important and difficult lifestyle changes to protect themselves and their families. While these adjustments can be disruptive, First Lady Melania Trump offers an encouraging reminder: "This is not how we will live forever."
"Our children will return to school, people will return to work," she says. "We will gather at the places of worship, concerts, and sporting events again."
Until then, remember two important things: First, stay connected with loved ones using technology as much as possible. Second, keep following all CDC public health guidelines, which can be found along with regular updates at www.coronavirus.gov.
"Stay safe, and remember, while many of us are apart, we are all in this together."
 Dr. Anthony Fauci: What to do if you feel sick
SUBSCRIBE NOW
1600 Daily is the White House's evening newsletter. Subscribe now to get breaking news from President Trump before anyone else.SIGN UP
  