
    Pool Report by Edward-Isaac Dovere, The Atlantic 



Sent:
Reports:




March 25, 202118:35

VP Pool report - Passover event
The White House hosted a virtual Passover celebration on Thursday afternoon, run out of the South Court Auditorium in the EEOB. Some segments were virtual, some recorded, some in person.
The president and first lady appeared via video message, with the president saying that this Passover comes "with heavy hearts, but hope for the year ahead," as the country, he noted, is still dealing with the pandemic and the effects of discrimination.
"There are still some grandparents who haven't been able to hug their children since the last Passover. And there are far, far too many empty chairs at a table—a solemn reminder of what we've lost," Biden said, finishing by doing a play on the traditional seder ending: "Not only next year in Jerusalem. But next year in person. Next year together."
Second Gentleman Doug Emhoff and Vice President Harris arrived in person, and from a two person bench, spoke to those watching, following the president's video. Emhoff had kicked off the event with a speech earlier. "After a year of social distancing and mask wearing, it's impossible not to feel isolated at times. So it's events like this one, events that creatively bring family and friends and communities together to keep us connected that remind us that we're not alone."
He introduced the Vice President.
"Yes, next year in person Mr. President, and in Jerusalem," she began, saying that she was glad to see her husband "in his element."
"Our family like so many families in the United States, in the State of Israel and around the world will begin to celebrate the sacred holiday of Passover this weekend. The Passover story is powerful. It reminds us of the resilience of the human spirit in the face of injustice. It urges us to keep the faith in the face of uncertainty, and it speaks to fundamental truths—the truths that we all hold dear and must sometimes be reminded of, which is that we all deserve freedom, and it's our duty to fight for those who are not yet free. And so this year, as we dip our greens in salt water and pour out our ceremonial wine and eat our bitter herbs, let us commit, once again, to repairing the world. Happy Passover, to all who celebrate, and indeed next year in Jerusalem, next year, in person."
Not much color beyond that. The Vice President called out "Happy Passover" in the direction of the pool as she and Emhoff exited.




  