
    More than 30 crime victims, survivors and advocates have released a letter "strongly urging" the Senate to elevate Ketanji Brown Jackson to the Supreme Court.
The letter states that Judge Jackson "not only meets but greatly exceeds the qualifications for this position" and that her confirmation would be "historic" for their profession.
Read the letter below:
Re: Nomination of the Honorable Ketanji Brown Jackson to be an Associate Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States[3/9/22]
Dear Senators Schumer, Durbin, McConnell and Grassley:
We are writing to express our strong support for Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson to be confirmed as an Associate Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States.
Many of us have personal experience as victims and survivors of crime, and all have long been advocates and providers of critical assistance services to crime victims and survivors.
We have devoted much of our individual and collective energies to secure fair and equal justice for crime victims and survivors who are engaged in the criminal justice system at the federal, Tribal, state, and local levels. As such, we realize that there is no more important an institution in our country than the U.S. Supreme Court, the ultimate arbiter of our laws and judicial policies and procedures.
All of us, regardless of our individual personal roles and perspectives, know that the criminal justice system in our country is an inherently adversarial process, and we thus must rely upon a Supreme Court that is composed of individuals with the highest legal abilities, and which embodies life experiences that are reflective of our entire country.
Judge Brown Jackson not only meets but greatly exceeds the qualifications for this position.
Her legal experience is widespread: as a federal trial judge, public defender, private practice, Vice-Chair of the U.S. Sentencing Commission, clerk for three judges (including Justice Breyer), and most recently as a federal appellate judge. Her personal background, which includes family members with careers in law enforcement, will contribute an important perspective to the Court. Her appointment will be historic in many ways, including to our field.
Judge Brown Jackson's nomination has earned widespread support from those representing the full spectrum of political and legal philosophies. We join with them in strongly urging the confirmation of Judge Ketjani Brown Jackson as Associate Supreme Court Justice.
  