
    TODAY I am pleased to report that a total of $424 million in Federal funds will be available this summer for youth programs, some $3 million more than last year.
This money should help in making the summer of 1973 a time of expanded opportunity for young Americans.
The outlook for young people this summer is encouraging in many ways. Job prospects are particularly promising, thanks in large measure to the rapid expansion of our economy. Last year the unemployment rate for youth dropped by 1.8 percent, even though the youth labor force increased by 1.1 million people. This summer, as we continue to lower the overall rate of unemployment, we can expect still further gains for young Americans.
One important element in the employment picture--especially for disadvantaged youth in our central cities whose unemployment rate is far too high--is that funding from Federal programs will be sufficient to support 776,000 job opportunities for young people. Total Federal funding available for this effort will be $354 million, slightly less than last year but more than the average of previous years.
Three different sources are available to States and localities in providing such jobs:
--The Emergency Employment Assistance Act. Last year I asked that money for this program be increased from $1 billion in fiscal year 1972 to $1.25 billion for the current fiscal year. Under a continuing resolution passed by the Congress last month, full funding is now available for this program, and we estimate that the States and local communities will be able to use some $300 million of it for summer youth jobs.
--Direct Federal employment. An additional $50.4 million is available to the Federal Government itself for hiring young people through ongoing Federal programs. The Federal-State Employment Service should provide a total of 120,000 jobs for young Americans through its Youth Summer Placement Program.
--Finally, another $3.5 million is available for summer job programs through the Youth Conservation Corps.
I am also happy to report that this Government commitment to summer jobs is being matched by significant efforts in the private sector. For example, the National Alliance of Businessmen plans a massive summer employment campaign to hire an additional 175,000 young people in 126 major metropolitan areas. Overall, I am hopeful that this summer will bring another significant increase in the employment rate of our youth.
For those under 14, a wide range of recreational opportunities will be available this summer through federally funded recreation programs operated by cities, colleges, and universities across America. These programs are targeted to the needs of disadvantaged youth, providing them with healthful exercise, sports instruction, and exposure to local cultural institutions. Such efforts will make the coming summer a better and more productive time for approximately 2.3 million people.
Other summer programs will provide transportation services to make these employment and recreational opportunities more accessible. Approximately 850,000 young people will benefit from federally financed transportation services concentrated in the Nation's largest cities. In another important effort--one that is also expanding this summer--the summer nutrition program will serve some 128 million meals to nearly 2 million needy young Americans.
Our Nation's youth are our most valuable natural resource. Each of these summer programs will enrich their lives and help develop their potential as well-rounded human beings and as good citizens. I pledge the fullest possible cooperation of the Federal Government to help make the summer of 1973 a great summer for all of our young people.
And I urge the American people to give their fullest cooperation and support to all of these efforts.
  