
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
Released March 13 [ii]1
The President announced his intention to nominate Eric H. Holder, Jr., to serve as Deputy Attorney General at the Department of Justice.
March 16
In the morning, the President left the National Naval Medical Center in Bethesda, MD, where he underwent knee surgery, and returned to the White House.
The White House announced that the President and the Danish Government agreed to postpone the President's scheduled March 21 visit to Denmark, because of recent knee surgery. The President's visit to Denmark will take place in conjunction with the Madrid NATO summit in July.
March 17
In the afternoon, the President met with Minister of Foreign Affairs Yevgeniy Primakov of Russia in the Yellow Room of the White House to discuss issues on the agenda for the upcoming Russia-U.S. summit in Helsinki, Finland.
The White House announced that the President extended the time for Presidential Emergency Board No. 233 to submit its report until March 19.
March 18
The President announced his intention to nominate Kenneth M. Mead as Inspector General at the Department of Transportation.
The President declared a major disaster in Louisiana and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by a severe ice storm January 12-17.
March 19
In the evening, the President departed for Helsinki, Finland, arriving the following afternoon.
The President announced his intention to nominate John D. Trasvina to serve as Special Counsel for Immigration-Related Unfair Employment Practices at the Department of Justice.
The President announced his intention to appoint Glyn T. Davies as the Executive Secretary of the National Security Council.
The White House announced that the President asked the Congress to provide nearly $2 billion in emergency funding to meet urgent needs created by recent natural disasters across the country.
March 21
In the evening, the President departed for Washington, DC, arriving early the following morning.
The President declared a major disaster in the State of Illinois and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms and flooding on March 1 and continuing.
  