
    [ Recorded on film and tape for use in connection with the 1958 Red Cross Drive ]
My fellow Americans:
In recent weeks I have spoken to you and to the Congress about many problems that beset us involving our nation's defense and security. It is a welcome change, now, to talk to you about something that stands as a monument to the goodness and generosity of Americans. I mean the American Red Cross.
Through the Red Cross, Americans help the needy, assist their neighbors in natural disasters and promote the welfare of the men and women, and their families, in the Armed forces.
This work goes on unceasingly.
Only recently I learned of a man in a small midwestern town whose wife and children were terribly injured in one of last year's tornadoes. The future of this family was black indeed. It appeared that many months of medical treatment would be needed, and the expenses would reduce them all to poverty. But then, like a good neighbor, the Red Cross--your Red Cross--moved in to pay the bills and to set the family on its feet.
I have seen many of these examples of Red Cross service, in war and peace. In the summer of 1955, I saw at first-hand the way the Red Cross met the suffering caused by the floods which swept our Eastern states. And those floods were the beginning of an almost unbroken series of natural disasters over the succeeding two and a half years. They have struck down our citizens in almost every part of the land.
In assisting these citizens--83,000 American families in 1957 alone-the Red Cross has used up all its disaster reserve funds. There is now a critical shortage of funds for national emergencies and for all the other jobs the Red Cross does for our servicemen and for all of us at home.
The month of March is traditionally called "Red Cross Month." This is the month the Red Cross turns to the American people with the confident expectation of our generous support.
Long ago, the Congress of the United States charged the Red Cross with great humanitarian responsibilities. But it is only by our voluntary contributions of time and treasure that we can keep the Red Cross on the job. This is one of our greatest and brightest opportunities--to serve our country by helping our neighbors in need.
This we do when we support the Red Cross--generously.
  