
    
March 7, 2016
Today, the campaign publicly announced Marco's National Security Advisory Council, which will provide strategic advice to Marco and the campaign regarding foreign policy, defense, intelligence, and homeland security issues.
The group will lend their considerable expertise to Marco's efforts to make the case for American leadership in an increasingly uncertain world.
Marco is the most prepared candidate in this race to take on the national security challenges America faces in the 21st century.
Michael Mukasey, former Attorney General, had this to say about Marco:
I am proud to support Marco to be our next Commander-in-Chief because no candidate better understands the national security challenges we face. He is the only candidate with the knowledge and judgment needed to confront radical Islamic terrorism, and the commitment to use every legally available tool to prevail in that long-term struggle.
Former Senator Jim Talent praised Marco's plans to restore our military: 
Under the Obama/Clinton foreign policy, America has been in retreat across the globe. The first step toward restoring American strength is to rebuild our military. I am endorsing Marco for President because he understands better than any other candidate that we cannot confront the national security challenges of the 21st century without rebuilding our armed forces. Under Marco's comprehensive, detailed plan to rebuild our military, America will be ready to face a growing set of challenges and ensure that our country is safe and prosperous.
Ambassador Eric Edelman, former Under Secretary of Defense for Policy, praised Marco's work in the Senate:
I am proud to endorse Marco for President. After seven years of failed leadership by Barack Obama, our allies no longer trust us and our enemies are testing us. We need a president ready to undo the damage of the Obama years on day one. Marco Rubio is that candidate. As one of the most active members of the Senate Foreign Relations and Senate Intelligence Committees, Senator Rubio will not have a learning curve when he steps into the Oval Office. He understands the threats we face and has the experience and wisdom to put America back on track toward a more prosperous and secure future.
Elliott Abrams, former Deputy National Security Advisor for Global Democracy Strategy, has been impressed by Marco's advocacy for democratic values:
From Cuba and Venezuela to Russia, Iran, and China, Marco has always fought to ensure that the United States is on the side of those who are oppressed. He has an innate understanding of America's important role in supporting freedom and standing up to tyranny. As President he would ensure that our allies respect us again and our enemies fear us. That is why I am delighted to join Marco's team.
General Keith Alexander, former Director of the National Security Agency, recognized Marco's support for our intelligence programs:
Our next Commander-in-Chief needs to understand the dangerous world in which we live and be willing to do what is necessary to keep our families and communities safe. I am supporting Marco for President because he actually has a record of warning about emerging crises overseas and clearly outlining how he would deal with them. At times when others have wavered in their support for a strong national defense, he has steadfastly backed the intelligence programs that our law enforcement and intelligence professionals need to defend our country.
Marco's National Security Advisory Council
Elliott Abrams, former Deputy National Security Advisor for Global Democracy StrategyGeneral Keith Alexander, former Director, National Security AgencyMichael Chertoff, former Secretary of Homeland SecurityEliot Cohen, former Counselor of the Department of StateSenator Norm ColemanAmbassador Paula Dobriansky, former Under Secretary of State for Democracy and Global AffairsAmbassador Eric Edelman, former Under Secretary of Defense for PolicyAaron Friedberg, former Deputy National Security Advisor to the Vice PresidentKim Holmes, former Assistant Secretary of State for International Organization AffairsAmbassador Robert Joseph, former Under Secretary of State for Arms Control and International SecuritySenator Jon KylJohn Lehman, former Secretary of the NavyMichael Mukasey, former Attorney GeneralAndrew Natsios, former Administrator of the U.S. Agency for International DevelopmentDan Senor, former Senior Advisor & Chief Spokesman, Coalition in IraqAmbassador Kristen Silverberg, former Ambassador to the European UnionSenator Jim TalentDov Zakheim, former Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller)
  