
    Pool Reports by Philip Wegmann, RealClearPolitics 



Sent:
Reports:




March 27, 2023 09:07

In-Town Pool Report #1: Brunch Lid Until 12:30PM
White House called a brunch lid until 12:30PM. 


March 27, 2023 12:47

In-Town Pool Report #2: Press Briefing will begin at 1:30 PM
White House announces that briefing will now begin at 1:30PM. 


March 27, 2023 13:52

In-Town Pool Report #3: Two Minutes
Two Minutes 


March 27, 2023 14:38

In-Town Pool Report #4: Summit Begins
President Biden entered the room at 2:36pm accompanied by the Small Business administrator.
Program is ongoing.
The White House passes along the following:
In attendance for the President's remarks at the Small Business Administration's Women's Business Summit:
Administrator Isabella Casillas Guzman, Small Business Administration Senator Ben Cardin (MD) Natalie King, Founder and CEO of Dunamis Clean Energy Partners Sara Blakely, Founder of Spanx Payal Kadakia, Founder and Former CEO of ClassPass Melissa Butler, Founder and CEO of The Lip Bar Administration officials, women entrepreneurs, and entrepreneurial ecosystem builders from foundations, non-profits, and for-profit organizations.
Speaking Program Administrator Isabella Casillas Guzman, Small Business Administration Natalie King, CEO and Founder of Dunamis Clean Energy Partners The President
Background on Introducer Natalie King is the founder and CEO of Dunamis Clean Energy Partners, LLC, and its affiliated company, Dunamis Charge. Started in 2012, Dunamis has grown into a multi-million-dollar corporation with more than 135 workers throughout Southeastern Michigan. Dunamis began as an energy efficiency firm, consulting with commercial businesses on how to use green technology to bring down costs. In 2015, Natalie expanded Dunamis into LED lighting manufacturing, and in 2022 they announced they would begin producing electric vehicle charging stations. During the pandemic, Dunamis received PPP and COVID EIDL loans that were critical in keeping her business afloat. A native Detroiter, King earned her undergraduate degree from the University of Michigan, and a J.D. from Wayne State University Law School. She is a proud mother, and a licensed and ordained minister. 


March 27, 2023 14:56

In-Town Pool Report #5: Remarks Begin
Biden welcomed the small business summit to the White House by introducing himself as "Dr. Jill Biden's husband" and joking that he only turned up because "I heard there was chocolate chip ice cream."
The president welcomed a family with kids to the East Room, recalling fondly how he relied on his sister throughout his career.
Then, Biden addressed the recent shooting at the Covenant School in Nashville.
"We are still gathering the facts," he said.
"It is heartbreaking, a family's worst nightmare," he continued.
"We have to do more to stop gun violence," he urged.
We have to protect our schools, he added, so that they are not "turned into prisons."
The president then apologized, saying "sorry to start off that way" with solemn remarks about the shooting, but he said it was important to address.
Biden has returned to regular programming.
"You know it's pretty dull to have been in public office for as long as I have and be known for two things," he said, ice cream and Ray Ban sunglasses.
Remarks are ongoing and being live-streamed. Check all quotes against transcript. 


March 27, 2023 15:08

In-Town Pool Report #6: Remarks End
When the president concluded his remarks, the music started to play, then Biden returned to the microphone.
POTUS said, "there is a little thing going on around the world." He didn't elaborate.
Check quote against transcript.
Biden is now shaking hands with attendees on his way out the door. He did not respond to shouted questions from pooler.
Pool ushered out of the East Room at 3:06PM. 


March 27, 2023 16:33

In-Town Pool Report #7: White House Lid
White House called a lid just now at 4:32PM. 


March 27, 2023 22:36

In-Town Pool Report #8: Tennessee Calls
White House passes along the following:
Tonight President Biden spoke to Tennessee Governor Bill Lee and Nashville Mayor John Cooper about today's shooting at Covenant School. 



  