
    Memorandum for the Senior Adviser to the President, the Assistant to the President and Chief of Staff, the Senior Adviser to the President for Policy, the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy, the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy, the Assistant to the President for Strategic Initiatives, the Assistant to the President for Intergovernmental and Technology Initiatives, the Senior Counselor to the President for Economic Initiatives, the Assistant to the President for Strategic Communications, the Assistant to the President and Chief of Staff to the Vice President, the Assistant to the President and Staff Secretary, the Director of the Office of Management and Budget, and the Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy 
Subject: The White House Office of American Innovation
America has long led the world in innovation and technological advancement. American ingenuity has launched industries, created jobs, and improved quality of life at home and abroad. To ensure that America remains the global innovation leader, I hereby direct the Senior Advisor to the President to head an office in the White House dedicated to American innovation. This office will bring together the best ideas from Government, the private sector, and other thought leaders to ensure that America is ready to solve today's most intractable problems, and is positioned to meet tomorrow's challenges and opportunities. The office will focus on implementing policies and scaling proven private-sector models to spur job creation and innovation.
To implement this directive, I further direct as follows:
Section 1. Establishment. The White House Office of American Innovation (OAI) is hereby established within the White House Office. The OAI shall consist of the following: The Senior Advisor to the President, the Assistant to the President and Chief of Staff, the Senior Advisor to the President for Policy, the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy, the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy, the Assistant to the President for Strategic Initiatives, the Assistant to the President for Intergovernmental and Technology Initiatives, the Senior Counselor to the President for Economic Initiatives, the Assistant to the President for Strategic Communications, the Assistant to the President and Chief of Staff to the Vice President, and the Assistant to the President and Staff Secretary. In carrying out the mission set forth in section 2 of this memorandum, the OAI shall consult with the Director of the Office of Management and Budget and the Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy.
Sec. 2. Mission. The OAI will make recommendations to the President on policies and plans that improve Government operations and services, improve the quality of life for Americans now and in the future, and spur job creation.
Sec. 3. Responsibilities. The OAI shall launch initiatives with a focus on innovation, coordinate implementation of any resulting plans, and create reports for the President setting forth policy recommendations. In carrying out these activities and producing these reports, the OAI shall gather information, ideas, and experiences from other parts of Government, from the private sector, and from other thought leaders and experts outside of the Federal Government.
DONALD J. TRUMP
  