
    It's nice to meet personally with a group with whom I spend about 10 hours a day. The music that you make not only pleases the President of the United States, but I think it extends the beneficial impact of American life throughout the world. As you well know, because you've achieved this high standard of accomplishment, the American sound recording industry has indeed been innovative, dynamic, pleasant, profitable, and- [laughter] —I was just trying to see which one of those adjectives appealed to you most. [Laughter]
But for people who have the talent to both create and produce sound recordings, I want to express my thanks to you as President. I've got a lot of friends in this room. You've been my friends when the Jimmy Carter performance was on the top of the chart and also when it was on the bottom. [Laughter] And I thank you for it very much.
I understand that my dancing partner, Beverly Sills, is here. Is she? Is Beverly here?
Hi, beautiful. Good to see you.
I understand that she's going to be honored tonight with your top award for cultural music performer. In this very room, not too long ago, she not only thrilled a very wonderful audience but she gave me a good dancing lesson, and I enjoyed being with her.
And I've just walked over here with Chet Atkins. I have been a fan of his for 20 years or more, and I still listen to his music often. Last night he was in Ohio with my wife, and she called about 9:30 to say that his performance there not only was an inspiration to her personally, and his friendship was very important to her, but the whole audience that heard him play his guitar were electrified, as usual. You're not surprised at that. I might say this is not the first time he has had an interrelationship with the Carter family. He started out with them, or they with him, a long time ago in Nashville,
I do want to say that Chet Atkins, who's practically a classical performer-we had Andres Segovia play in this room a couple of Sundays ago—and Chet, also represent the highest kind of personal artistic achievement—Beverly Sills, who has made opera come to life for many people with her personal beauty and her acting talent as well as her lovely voice-represent the gamut of offerings that you have made available to us in this great country and also throughout the world. And I am deeply indebted to you personally and want to express, on behalf of more than 200 million Americans, our thanks for what you mean to us.
I believe that you know how close I feel to many of you personally. Phil Walden, 1 a good Georgian, informed me when I was Governor about some of the problems with the pirating of recordings and soundtapes. We passed an excellent bill in Georgia to correct that deficiency, and I began to understand a little more about your industry from his instruction and his concern. And, of course, as you also know, I have been to your conventions and have met many of you in very favorable circumstances.
1 Member of the board of directors, Recording Industry Association of America.
This is your home. We have a very good partnership throughout our country. Many things divide Americans, one from another—differences of perspective, background, interests. And, of course, many more things divide Americans from other people throughout the world. International borders are very difficult to bridge. Tedious, long negotiations are sometimes necessary to tear down hatreds, misunderstandings, animosities. But I think if there's one industry that I can imagine that has been successful in bridging these gaps and bringing an alleviation of tension and a better understanding of one another not only in our own country but throughout the world, across the most impenetrable political borders, it has been the sound recording industry.
And I don't know if you think about your achievement in this way, but as President, it's a very sobering and a very gratifying thought for me. And I want to congratulate you, welcome you here to the White House, thank you for your tremendous achievements in the past. And I believe that the future will see an even brighter future for you and for your industry and for peace and harmony, understanding, good will, even love throughout the world.
Thank you very much.
  