
    President Donald J. Trump today announced the White House Office of American Innovation (OAI). The OAI will make recommendations to the President on policies and plans that improve Government operations and services, improve the quality of life for Americans now and in the future, and spur job creation. These recommendations will be developed in collaboration with career staff along with private-sector and other external thought leaders.
"As a former leader in the private sector, I am proud to officially announce the White House Office of American Innovation, which will develop innovative solutions to many problems our country faces," President Trump said. "One of the primary reasons I ran for President was the need for new thinking and real change, and I know the Office and its team will help us meet those challenges."
The President has appointed Senior Advisor Jared Kushner to lead this effort, along with additional senior White House staff who bring diverse experiences and exceptional talent to the initiative. This includes Assistant to the President for Economic Policy Gary Cohn, Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy Andrew Bremberg, Assistant to the President for Strategic Initiatives Chris Liddell, Assistant to the President for Intergovernmental and Technology Initiatives Reed Cordish, and Senior Counselor to the President for Economic Initiatives Dina Powell.
"The Office of American Innovation will bring a creative and strategic approach to many critical issues and intractable problems that affect Americans' quality of life," said Kushner. "We have an opportunity to identify and implement solutions by combining internal resources with the private sector's innovation and creativity, enabling the Federal Government to better serve Americans."
Individuals involved have already hosted listening and working sessions with more than 100 private-sector CEOs, other external thought leaders, and senior Government officials. OAI will create task forces to focus on initiatives such as modernizing Government services and information technology, improving services to veterans, creating transformational infrastructure projects, implementing regulatory and process reforms, creating manufacturing jobs, addressing the drug and opioid epidemic, and developing "workforce of the future" programs.
  