
    Council to advise on labor-management relations in the executive branch
WASHINGTON, DC – Today, President Barack Obama announced his appointment of the following individuals to the National Council on Federal Labor-Management Relations:
•      Michael B. Filler – Member, National Council on Federal Labor-Management Relations
•      David J. Holway - Member, National Council on Federal Labor-Management Relations
•      H.T. Nguyen - Member, National Council on Federal Labor-Management Relations
The Council, created in 2009 by Executive Order, is tasked with advising the President on matters involving labor-management relations in the executive branch. The Council is co-chaired by the Director of the Office of Personnel Management, John Berry, and the Deputy Director for Management of the Office of Management and Budget, Jeffrey Zients. The President also designated the following Deputy Secretaries to be members of the Council: Ashton B. Carter, Deputy Secretary of Defense; W. Scott Gould, Deputy Secretary of Veterans Affairs; Seth Harris, Deputy Secretary of Labor; Jane Holl Lute, Deputy Secretary of Homeland Security; and Kathleen Merrigan, Deputy Secretary of Agriculture.
President Obama said, "I am grateful that these accomplished individuals have agreed to play an integral role in this Administration, and I'm confident they will serve ably in these important roles. I look forward to working with them in the coming months and years."
President Obama announced today his appointment of the following individuals:
Michael B. Filler, Appointee for Member, National Council on Federal Labor-Management Relations
Michael B. Filler is the Director of the Public Services Division of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters (IBT) with responsibility for overseeing the representation over 260,000 public and professional employees throughout North America. He was first appointed to the National Council on Federal Labor-Management Relations by President Obama in February 2010. From 2003 to 2005, Mr. Filler was the Associate Director of the IBT's Education Department. Previously, Mr. Filler worked at the National Treasury Employees Union (NTEU) as Director of Negotiations (1999 - 2003), as Northeast Regional Director (1988 - 1999), and as a National Field Representative (1985 - 1987). Prior to his tenure with NTEU, Mr. Filler worked at the Federal Election Commission as a Branch Chief (1981 - 1985) and as a Reports Analyst (1976 - 1981). He currently serves as Co-Chair of the Public Sector Industry Council of the Labor and Employment Relations Association. In addition, he was a founding member of the Federal Workers Alliance, an active participant in the United Department of Defense Workers Coalition, and the Teamsters' Delegate to the Public Services International Convention in Vienna, Austria in 2007. Mr. Filler received a B.A. in Political Science from American University and attended the Executive Program at the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University.
David J. Holway, Appointee for Member, National Council on Federal Labor-Management Relations
David J. Holway is the President of the National Association of Government Employees (NAGE) and the International Brotherhood of Police Officers (IBPO), which represents more than 110,000 bargaining unit members across the country. He has been a member of the National Council on Federal Labor-Management Relations since being appointed by President Obama in February 2010. Prior to his current role, Mr. Holway served in many capacities at NAGE, including as Lead Negotiator and Legislative Director. He also previously held several government positions including Deputy Commissioner in the Massachusetts Department of Correction, Chief Financial Officer at the Norfolk County Hospital, and as Budget and Staff Director at the Massachusetts Legislative Committee on Counties. Mr. Holway served on the Cambridge Massachusetts School Committee from 1978 to 1979. In 2011, Mr. Holway began serving his second four-year term as a member of the Employee Thrift Advisory Council of the Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board. He received his B.S. from Boston State College.
H.T. Nguyen, Appointee for Member, National Council on Federal Labor-Management Relations
H.T. Nguyen is the Executive Director/General Counsel of the Federal Education Association (FEA), a state affiliate of the National Education Association (NEA) representing federally-employed educators. He was first appointed to the National Council on Federal Labor-Management Relations by President Obama in February 2010. Previously, Mr. Nguyen served as the Deputy General Counsel for the FEA from 1988 to 1998, where he was the FEA's lead attorney in all major cases involving the Association. From 1988 to 1998, Mr. Nguyen was a Staff Attorney with the FEA. In 1983, Mr. Nguyen was an associate at Berger & Miranda in San Jose, CA. From 1978 to 1980, he was a case worker for the International Rescue Committee in Washington, DC. He received his B.A. in American Government, his M.A. in International Relations, and his J.D. from the Columbus School of Law at the Catholic University of America.
  