
    President Bush Issues Summer Driving Challenge For Energy Legislation






The President's "Twenty In Ten" plan would help reduce America's dependence on oil by cutting our gas consumption 20 percent over the next 10 years.
Hybrid technology and alternative fuels will help us reach this goal.
The President has called on Congress to pass bipartisan energy legislation by the start of the summer driving season.






Today, President Bush Called On Congress To Pass Bipartisan Energy Legislation By The Start Of The Summer Driving Season. In his State of the Union Address, the President announced a "Twenty in Ten" goal to reduce U.S. gasoline consumption by 20 percent over the next 10 years. Bipartisan legislation has been introduced in Congress that furthers the President's goals. Recognizing widespread consensus on the need to increase our fuel efficiency and use of alternative fuels, the President has called on Congress to pass by the start of the summer driving season legislation supporting the "Twenty in Ten" goal.

The President Toured Automotive Assembly Plants In Fairfax, Kansas, And Kansas City, Missouri. The President toured a General Motors assembly plant in Fairfax and a Ford assembly plant in Kansas City. Both plants are on the cutting edge of hybrid technology. In Kansas City, the President viewed flex-fuel vehicles that can be powered by ethanol and hybrid vehicles with both gas-powered engines and electric motors.

Twenty In Ten: An Ambitious Goal To Help Reduce America's Dependence On Oil
To Help America Reduce Its Dependence On Oil, The President Has Set The Goal Of Cutting U.S. Consumption Of Gasoline By 20 Percent In The Next Ten Years. To meet this goal we must make progress on two fronts:

On the demand side, the President has proposed reforming fuel economy standards to make cars more energy efficient, just like we did for light trucks.
On the supply side, the President has proposed increasing the supply of alternative fuels by setting a mandatory fuels standard to require 35 billion gallons of renewable and other alternative fuels in 2017 . nearly five times the current target.

One Way To Get More Fuel-Efficient Cars On The Road Is To Encourage More Drivers To Buy Hybrids. More than 700,000 hybrids have been sold in America. America's automakers are also working to develop "plug-in" hybrids that will use even less gasoline. These vehicles use advanced battery technology, such as lithium ion batteries, and could be recharged in a standard electrical outlet. They could go almost 40 miles on electricity alone, meaning that many Americans could do their entire daily commute without burning any gasoline.

The Administration Is Providing A Federal Tax Credit Of Up To $3,400 For Hybrid Purchasers. In addition, the President signed an Executive Order on January 24 ordering Federal agencies to lead by example in reducing fuel consumption and purchasing more fuel-efficient vehicles.

The Federal Government Is Also Supporting Vital Research On Alternative Fuels Like Biodiesel And Ethanol. Scientists and engineers have made great progress on alternative fuels like biodiesel and ethanol.Our Nation is now on the threshold of dramatic breakthroughs like new forms of biodiesel and new ways of producing ethanol from wood chips, grasses, and agricultural wastes.

Since The President Took Office, The Federal Government Has Invested $12 Billion To Develop Cleaner, Cheaper, And More Reliable Energy Sources.

The President Has A Comprehensive Strategy To Address Energy Security, Cleaner Air, And Climate Change
Achieving The President's "Twenty In Ten" Goal Will Reduce Our Dependence On Oil . But It Will Not Eliminate It. As we continue to diversify our fuel supply, we must step up domestic oil production in environmentally sensitive ways. We also must double the current capacity of the Strategic Petroleum Reserve to further protect America against severe disruptions to the world's oil supply.
Reducing Our Oil Dependence Is Part Of Our Broader Energy Strategy. We are changing how America generates electricity by investing Federal resources in clean-coal technology, wind and solar energy, and clean, safe nuclear power.
  