
    — Mitt Romney today announced the support of Wisconsin Congressman Paul Ryan.
"When the history of this chapter of American politics is written, I venture to say that Paul Ryan will occupy a significant place in the story of how our country rescued itself from financial disaster," said Mitt Romney. "Congressman Ryan has not only thought deeply and creatively about how to bring our extraordinary budget shortfall under control, but he has demonstrated the leadership to bring Americans together to put his bold reforms into practice.  In the battle for fiscal responsibility, we have been facing gale force headwinds from the Democratic Party and from the Obama White House. But with Paul Ryan's support, I have every confidence that we can overcome those headwinds, recapture the White House for the American people, and begin the hard work of setting our country on a better course. I am profoundly grateful to Congressman Ryan for his endorsement today.  I am even more grateful for all the hard work he has done to help turn around our country and restore it to greatness."  
Click Here To Watch Congressman Paul Ryan Endorse Mitt Romney for President
FOX NEWS' STEVE DOOCY: "So you are throwing your support to?"
REP. PAUL RYAN: "Mitt Romney. Here is the point, we vote on Tuesday here in Wisconsin. Lots of my friends, family and supporters are asking me, who do we think we should vote for? I have two criteria I'm using to make my decision to vote in our primary on Tuesday. Who is the best person to be president? Who will make the best president? And who has the best chance of defeating Barack Obama? In my opinion, Mitt Romney is clearly that person. Here's the other point: I spent a good deal of time with Mitt Romney and his staff recently going through our country's fiscal situation, talking about just what it's going to take to get the country back on track. And I am convinced that Mitt Romney has the skills, the tenacity, the principles, the courage and the integrity to do what it takes to get America back on track. So I believe that he's the right person for the job and I think this primary has been productive. I think it's been constructive up 'til now. I think it's made the candidates better. But I think we're entering a phase where it could become counterproductive if this drags on much longer. And so that's why I think we need to coalesce as conservatives around Mitt Romney and focus on the big task at hand which is defeating Barack Obama in the fall."
  