
    Mitt Romney today announced Puerto Rico leaders supporting his candidacy. In addition to the solid support of Governor Luis Fortuño and other NPP leaders, Héctor O'Neill, Mayor of Guaynabo and President of the Mayors Federation is backing Mitt Romney.
"I am pleased to have so much support in Puerto Rico," said Mitt Romney. "Puerto Ricans exemplify the best of America: they are patriotic, industrious, and value family. My plan to revitalize our nation's economy will be critical to growth and job creation in Puerto Rico and I am pleased to be able to work toward this goal with great leaders like Governor Fortuño."
"Mitt Romney is the best candidate to reenergize Puerto Rico's economy and continue the creation of jobs on the island," said Governor Luis Fortuño. "We welcome Mitt and Ann to the island of enchantment. We are extremely committed to his campaign so that together we can bring his pro-growth message to the people of Puerto Rico so they can learn his plans and ideas to improve the quality of life of all Puerto Ricans."
"We need a new direction and new leadership in Washington," said Zoraida Fonalledas, National Committeewoman of the Puerto Rico Republican Party. "Mitt Romney has been a successful leader his entire life and is the right person to lead our country at a time when our economy is struggling. Mitt was a successful businessman who helped start companies, saved the Olympics from scandal, and brought fiscal sanity to his state as governor. That is why I strongly support his campaign and it is why Puerto Ricans should support him on Sunday."
Mitt Romney's Endorsements from Puerto Rican Leaders and Elected Officials:
 Governor Luis Fortuño
Jenniffer González-Colón: Speaker of the House of Representatives
Thomas Rivera Schatz: President of Senate
Jorge Santini: Mayor of San Juan
Héctor O'Neill: Mayor of Guaynabo
Zoraida F. Fonalledas: National Committeewoman — Republican Party Of Puerto Rico
Mario Gaztambide: Treasurer — Republican Party Of Puerto Rico
Héctor Ramos: Legal Counsel Republican Party Of Puerto Rico         
Hon. José Torres Zamora: State Legislator — Chair, House Republican Caucus
Hon. Vanessa Viera: Deputy Secretary Of The State Department Of Puerto Rico
Hon. Luis Gerardo Rivera Marín: Secretary Of The Department Of Consumer Affairs — Deputy Legal Counsel — Republican Party Of Puerto Rico
Gloria Escudero: President — National Federation Of Republican Women - Puerto Rico Chapter
Luis Carlos Maldonado: President — Federation Of Municipal Legislators
Jorge San Miguel: Deputy Director For Federal Affairs — Republican Party Of Puerto Rico
 Andrés Guillemard, Sr.:  President: Lone Star Insurance Producers, Inc.
Antonio Hernández: Deputy Legal Counsel — Republican Party Of Puerto Rico
Eduardo Emanuelli: Insurance Broker — Carrion, Laffitte & Casellas Insurance Company
Delegates:
Mario Gaztambide
Héctor Ramos
José Torres Zamora
Vanessa Viera
Luis Gerardo Rivera Marín
Gloria Escudero
Luis Carlos Maldonado
Jorge San Miguel
Andrés Guillemard, Sr
Antonio Hernández
Jenniffer González Colón
Abel Nazario Quiñones
Thomas Rivera Schatz
Jorge Santini
Marcos Rodríguez-Ema
José Carrión
Excer Rivera
Jaime Fonalledas
Antonio  Larrea
Ricardo Aponte Parsi
Alternate Delegates:
 Mercedes Rivera
Lolita Semidey
Luis Felipe Ramos
Annie Mayol
Ignacio Echenique
Rosana Roig
Héctor  Dávila
Arlene Duteil
Ernesto Rodríguez
Carmín Luz Berríos
Elías Sánchez
Rina González
Javier Capestany
Daniel Ballori
Gerardo  Martínez
Dohanie Sepúlveda
Otoniel Cruz Carillo
José R. Izquierdo II
Velmarie Berlingeri
Jaime Barreto
  