
    Pool Reports by Brittany Shepherd, Yahoo! News 



Sent:
Reports:




March 12, 202108:04

In town pool 1- good morning! & pool gather
Good cloudy morning from the White House. It's going to be in the high 60s today - chances we can get an outdoor press briefing? Your pooler can dream.
Pool is gathering at the Palm room doors for the President and the Vice President’s virtual meeting with their counterparts in the Quad: Prime Minister Narendra Modi of India, Prime Minister Scott Morrison of Australia, and Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga of Japan.
As always - please reach out if you have any questions. More soon.



March 12, 202108:49

in town pool 2 - quad meeting spray
Pool entered the state dining room at 8:32am. Three tables are set in a horseshoe formation, Biden at the center table flanked by Anthony Blinken and VP Harris. Prime Minister Narendra Modi of India, Prime Minister Scott Morrison of Australia, and Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga of Japan are featured on large flat screen televisions to the left of the President, adjacent to flags from their corresponding nations. I’ll post a photo on Twitter.
Attending the Quad meeting in person, in addition to the President and the Vice President:Tony Blinken, Secretary of StateJake Sullivan, National Security AdvisorJeff Zients, Coordinator of the COVID-19 ResponseKurt Campbell, Indo-Pacific Coordinator, National Security CouncilSumona Guha, Senior Director for South Asia, National Security Council
Pool was escorted out of the dining room at 8:44 am after each leader gave brief opening remarks. No news from any of that. Biden did not respond yet to a shouted question about the situation at the Southern Border.
Will send along quotes from Biden’s remarks ASAP.



March 12, 202109:19

in town pool report 3: quad spray biden quotes 
Here are some highlights from the opening remarks at the Quad meeting. Please check against cable feeds when those are available, as your pooler had to sit on the floor under a tripod in order to get semi clear audio. Our press section was blocked by television monitors!
Would be happy to send the audio along to folks. Just give me a digital shout.
Biden: "A free and open Indo-Pacific is essential...the United States is committed to working with you, our partners, and all of our allies in the region to achieve stability. This is a group particularly important because it is dedicated to the practical solutions and concrete results."
"Yesterday, I signed into law the American Rescue Plan to get the American people through this pandemic and kickstart our economy, our economic recovery. Get meaningful help in the hands of people who need it most. Consequently, this week, the OECD revised up its expected rate of growth in the United States this year. The consequence of that is inflation. In fact, it doubled, from 3.2 percent to 6.5 percent."
"It is critical because the OECD also predicted that the United States economic growth [...] will be a key driver in global growth this year and our trade partners around the globe will benefit as a consequence. To get this right we'll have to focus on generating domestic demand and driving sustainable global growth."
"We've got a big agenda ahead of us gentlemen as you well know, but I'm optimistic about our prospects. The Quad is going to be vital in our cooperation in the Indo-Pacific and I look forward to looking closely to working with all of you in the coming years."
The other world leaders expressed similar excitement and willingness to collaborate in the Indo-Pacific region.



March 12, 202109:50

In Town Pool Report 4: briefing time moved to 12:15 pm 
Per WH, Psaki briefing now at 12:15 p.m.



March 12, 202110:49

In Town Pool 5: Lunch lid until noon 
We have a lunch lid until 12:00 pm. Bon appetit



March 12, 202112:26

in town pool 6: two minute warning for Psaki briefing 
Two minutes til go time.



March 12, 202114:32

In town pool 7 - rose garden event 
Pool is gathered in the Rose Garden. Passing along event BG from the White House —
The President and the Vice President will be joined by Speaker Pelosi and Majority Leader Schumer on stage. The First Lady and the Second Gentleman will be in the audience.
White House senior staff seated in the audience:Julissa Reynoso, Assistant to the President and Chief of Staff to the First LadyCedric Richmond, Assistant to the President and Senior Advisor to the President and Director of the Office of Public EngagementLouisa Terrell, Assistant to the President and Director of the White House Office of Legislative AffairsSteve Ricchetti, Assistant to the President and Counselor to the PresidentHartina Flournoy, Assistant to the President and Chief of Staff to the Vice PresidentJulie Rodriguez, Deputy Assistant to the President and Director of the White House Office of Intergovernmental Affairs
Congressional attendees:
Leadership

Speaker Nancy Pelosi
Majority Leader Chuck Schumer
Majority Leader Steny Hoyer
Majority Whip Jim Clyburn
President Pro Tempore Patrick Leahy
Chairwoman Patty Murray
Chairwoman Debbie Stabenow
Chairwoman Amy Klobuchar

Chairs of Relevant Committees

Senator Bernie Sanders, Budget Committee Chair
Senator Gary Peters, Homeland Security & Governmental Affairs Committee Chair
Senator Ben Cardin, Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee Chair
Senator Sherrod Brown, Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs Committee Chair
Congressman John Yarmuth, Budget Committee Chair
Congressman Bobby Scott, Education and Labor Committee Chair
Congressman Frank Pallone, Energy and Commerce Committee Chair
Congresswoman Maxine Waters, Financial Services Committee Chair
Congresswoman Carolyn Maloney, Oversight and Reform Committee Chair
Congresswoman Nydia Velázquez, Small Business Committee Chair
Congressman Mark Takano, Veterans’ Affairs Committee Chair
Congressman Richard Neal, Ways and Means Committee Chair
Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro,Appropriations Committee Chair
Congressman Gregory Meeks, Foreign Affairs Committee Chair





March 12, 202115:04

In Town Pool Report 8 - Rose Garden Event Over 
Biden concluded his remarks at 3:00 p.m. He did not answer a shouted question from a reporter about his new goal for shots. We will gather soon for his departure to Wilmington on this beautiful spring day.
More soon. Sit tight.



March 12, 202115:28

In Town Pool Report 9 - departure gather 
Pool gathering momentarily for Biden's departure to Wilmington for the weekend. He's scheduled to leave at 3:40.



March 12, 202115:47

In town pool report 10 - departure 
President Biden and the First Lady exited the White House at 3:36 p.m. holding hands. POTUS did not stop by the pool and did not answer shouted questions about whether NY Gov. Cuomo should resign.
Marine One took off at 3:42 pm en route to Wilmington Delaware. Over to you, out of town pool.
Good evening everyone. Get off your phones and enjoy this weather.



March 12, 202115:56

In town report 10a - marine one guests 
Passing along this one final piece of into:
On Marine One with the President and the First Lady:Steve Ricchetti, Assistant to the President & Counselor to the PresidentSasha Baker, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for Strategic Planning for the National Security CouncilStephen Goepfert, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the President
Goodbye this time, I mean it!




  