
    
  Republican State Senator of New Plymouth supports Congressman Paul's devotion to liberty

BOISE, Idaho — 2012 Republican Presidential candidate Ron Paul was endorsed today by Idaho State Senator Monty Pearce (R-New Plymouth).  Representing the 9th District, Sen. Pearce serves an area encompassing Adams, Payette, and Washington counties, located northwest of Boise.
In making his public endorsement, Sen. Pearce issued the following statement:
"I support Ron Paul for a number of reasons. He is the only Constitutionalist running for President, and we must return to the Constitution because it is the document that caused America to rise to the greatness it achieved, which it is now losing.
"Ron Paul is the only one that will appoint judges both to the Supreme and District courts that are constitutionalists.  Ron Paul understands we have to change the courts in order to fix America. Ron Paul's ‘Plan to Restore America' is the only one that will keep us out of bankruptcy. Ron Paul is the same principled man today as he was 24 years ago."
Monty Pearce was elected to the Idaho State Senate in November of 2002, and he served in the State House of Representatives from 1999-2002. In the State Senate, Sen. Pearce holds seats within the Education and Agricultural Affairs Committees and is Chair of the Resources and Environment Committee.
Sen. Pearce's conservatism is exampled by his tough opposition of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, known as Obamacare. Like many other states and Republicans, Idaho and Sen. Pearce battle the new controversial policy, referring to nullification as the solution to removing the federal mandate.
Senator Pearce also belongs to The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, has graduated from Brigham Young University and Ricks College, and holds a strong and successful professional experience in operating a ranch. He has been married to Merry Pearce for almost 40 years, and they have seven children together.
Providing a strong boost to Ron Paul's Idaho State organization, such endorsements present Ron Paul as the conservative alternative to Mitt Romney.  They also demonstrate that the 12-term Congressman from Texas has the only campaign organization capable of maintaining a 50-state competition with the moderate-establishment Romney.
  