
    
  Congressman's support combined with voter eligibility openness will enfranchise thousands of North Dakotans and get out the vote for Paul

BISMARCK, North Dakota — 2012 Republican Presidential candidate Ron Paul will return to North Dakota on March 6th — Super Tuesday — to speak at a Fargo mega-caucus where thousands of state residents will select who they prefer to defeat President Barack Obama come November.
North Dakota has no voter registration of any kind including no political party enrollment. Those eligible to caucus must be 18 years of age by Election Day in November, and they must bring government ID or proof of 30-day residency such as a utility bill. State residents from all over North Dakota may vote at any caucus location statewide, making North Dakota caucusing rules among the most open nationally. Therefore, state residents from all over North Dakota who are eligible to vote under these loose eligibility requirements are eligible to vote at the Fargo-area caucus where Dr. Paul will be speaking.
Voting at the Fargo mega-caucus will commence at 5:30 p.m. CST.
"We are excited to welcome back Ron Paul to Fargo and to North Dakota on this pivotal day for the state and nation. I'd like to issue a challenge to all Ron Paul supporters in the greater Fargo area. And that is, 'Come to Fargo to hear Dr. Paul speak, vote for Ron Paul, and help us restore our economic and personal liberties,'" said Ron Paul 2012 North Dakota State Director Jared Hendrix. "And to those not in the vicinity of Fargo, vote for Ron Paul where you can," added Mr. Hendrix.
The 12-term Congressman from Texas' speech to the Fargo-area mega-caucus will be followed by a media availability. Members of the local and major print, broadcast, and online media are advised that production aspects such as press riser and sound are available. Those with particular needs are asked to contact National Media Coordinator Megan Stiles at megans@ronpaul2012.com. Please, no exceptions.
Details of the event are as follows. Time is Central.
Tuesday, March 6, 2012
5:30 p.m. caucus start time
Speaks at Fargo-area caucus*
Ramada Plaza Inn and Suites
1635 42nd Street South
Fargo, ND 58103
[*Media availability to follow.]
  