
    Pittsburgh Mayor; Allegheny County Chief Executive Join Clinton Today to Announce Support
PITTSBURGH, PA - Today, Hillary Clinton received the endorsements of two more prominent Pennsylvania leaders, Allegheny County Chief Executive Dan Onorato and Pittsburgh Mayor Luke Ravenstahl.
"I am honored to have these two incredible Pennsylvania leaders in my corner," said Senator Clinton. "Their leadership and efforts to revitalize Pittsburgh and Allegheny County are commendable. The people of this state need a plan they can count on, results that can rely on, and a champion they can depend on. I will be that President for them."
Dan Onorato grew up on Pittsburgh's North Side, was elected to Pittsburgh City Council in 1991, and re-elected in 1995. In 1999, he successfully ran for Allegheny County Controller and spent four years being a watchdog against wasteful spending and fraud.
"For too long this country has been adrift without the leadership or the vision we need to put us back on track," observed Allegheny County Chief Executive Dan Onorato. "Hillary Clinton has the experience and the determination to clean up the mess in Washington and deliver results. For Allegheny County and for Pennsylvania, we need her in the White House. I am proud to support her and I'll do whatever it takes to make Hillary Clinton the next President."
Luke Ravenstahl, 28, was elected Mayor of Pittsburgh in November 2007, during a special election held to determine who would serve out the remaining two-year term of the late Mayor Bob O'Connor. The Pittsburgh native, who had served on City Council since 2003, holds the distinction of being the youngest mayor of any major U.S. city.
"As President, Hillary Clinton will be the steward our economy desperately needs and the Commander in Chief we know we can trust," said Mayor Ravenstahl. "I am looking forward to partnering with Hillary when she is president to grow the Pittsburgh economy and create new, good jobs for our residents. I know the she understands the needs of people like us and I know she'll fight for us in Washington."
  