
    WASHINGTON, DC – Today, President Barack Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key Administration posts:
•      Nani A. Coloretti – Deputy Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development
•      Estevan R. Lopez – Commissioner of Reclamation, Department of the Interior
•      Erika Lizabeth Moritsugu – Assistant Secretary for Congressional and Intergovernmental Relations, Department of Housing and Urban Development
•      Monica C. Regalbuto – Assistant Secretary for Environmental Management, Department of Energy
•      Andrew H. Schapiro – Ambassador to the Czech Republic, Department of State
President Obama also announced his intent to appoint the following individuals to key Administration posts:
•      Thomas R. Lamont – Member, American Battle Monument Commission
•      Alan B. Lazowski – Member, United States Holocaust Memorial Council
•      Latifa A. Lyles – Director of the Women's Bureau, Department of Labor
•      Susan Athey – Member, President's Committee on the National Medal of Science
•      John T. Cacioppo – Member, President's Committee on the National Medal of Science
•      Sharon R. Long – Member, President's Committee on the National Medal of Science
President Obama said, "I am proud that such experienced and committed individuals have agreed to serve the American people in these important roles. I look forward to working with them in the months and years ahead."
President Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key Administration posts:
Nani A. Coloretti, Nominee for Deputy Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development
Nani A. Coloretti is the Assistant Secretary for Management at the U.S. Department of the Treasury, a position she has held since November 2012. From 2009 to 2012, she served as the Deputy Assistant Secretary for Management and Budget. Prior to joining the Administration, Ms. Coloretti worked in the San Francisco Mayor's office from 2005 until 2009, most recently serving as Budget Director. Previously, Ms. Coloretti served as the Director of Policy, Planning, and Budget for the San Francisco Department of Children, Youth, and Their Families from 1999 to 2005. Ms. Coloretti worked as a Health Financing Branch Budget Examiner for the U.S. Office of Management and Budget from 1994 to 1997. She was a Budget Analyst for the Department of Public Safety in the State of Hawaii from 1991 to 1992. Ms. Coloretti is a recipient of the National Public Service Award, the Public Policy and International Affairs Achievement Award, the Government Finance Officers Association Distinguished Budget Presentation Award, and the Federal 100 Award. Ms. Coloretti received a B.A. in Economics and Communications from the University of Pennsylvania and an M.P.P. from the Goldman School of Public Policy at the University of California at Berkeley.
Estevan R. Lopez, Nominee for Commissioner of Reclamation, Department of the Interior 
Estevan R. Lopez is currently the Director of the New Mexico Interstate Stream Commission, a position he has held since 2003. From 2001 to 2003, Mr. Lopez served as County Manager of Santa Fe County. Prior to that, he served as the Land Use and Utilities Department Director of Santa Fe County from 2000 to 2001. Mr. Lopez also served as the Utilities Department Director of Santa Fe County from 1998 to 2000 and as Utilities Division Deputy Director of Santa Fe County from 1997 to 1998. From 1990 to 1997, he was a Public Utility Engineer at the New Mexico Public Utility Commission. Previously, Mr. Lopez worked at Arco Alaska, Inc. as an Operations Engineer and then a Well Work Supervisor. He received a B.S. from the New Mexico Institute of Mining and Technology.
Erika Lizabeth Moritsugu, Nominee for Assistant Secretary for Congressional and Intergovernmental Relations, Department of Housing and Urban Development
Erika Lizabeth Moritsugu is the Deputy Assistant Director for Legislative Affairs at the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection, a position she has held since 2012. Prior to that, Ms. Moritsugu was the Deputy Legislative Director for U.S. Senator Daniel Akaka of Hawai?i from 2010 to 2012. From 2007 to 2010, Ms. Moritsugu served in several capacities at the Senate Democratic Policy Committee, including Acting Staff Director, Policy Director and Counsel, and Economic Policy Advisor. From 2001 to 2007, Ms. Moritsugu was an Associate for the Government Regulations Practice Group at Hogan and Hartson, LLP and from 1995 to 2001, she worked at The Wexler Group. Ms. Moritsugu was a Legislative Assistant at the U.S. Department of Agriculture Food Safety and Inspection Service from 1994 to 1995 and a legal clerk at the County of Honolulu Prosecutor's Office in 1991. She is a Member of the Board of Pan-Pacific American Leaders and Mentors. She is a 2004 recipient of the Tahirih Justice Center Pro Bono Award and a 2001 Bryce Harlow Foundation Scholar. Ms. Moritsugu received a B.A. from The College of William and Mary and a J.D. from George Washington University.
Dr. Monica C. Regalbuto, Nominee for Assistant Secretary for Environmental Management, Department of Energy
Dr. Monica C. Regalbuto is the Deputy Assistant Secretary for Fuel Cycle Technologies in the Office of Nuclear Energy at the Department of Energy (DOE), a position she has held since 2011. She is currently detailed to DOE from Argonne National Laboratory. Prior to this role, Dr. Regalbuto was Senior Program Manager for the Office of Waste Processing in the Office of Environmental Management at DOE from 2008 to 2010. From 2003 to 2008, Dr. Regalbuto was the head of the Process Chemistry and Engineering Department in Argonne's Chemical Sciences and Engineering Division and from 1996 to 2001, she was a Senior Research Engineer at BP Amoco Oil Company. Dr. Regalbuto received a B.S. in Chemical Engineering from the Instituto Tecnologico y de Estudios Superiores de Monterrey (ITESM) and an M.S. and Ph.D. in Chemical Engineering from the University of Notre Dame.
Andrew H. Schapiro, Nominee for Ambassador to the Czech Republic, Department of State
Andrew H. Schapiro is a partner at the international law firm Quinn Emanuel Urquhart and Sullivan, LLP. He was a partner at Mayer Brown, LLP from 1998 to 2011, and served as a trial attorney with the Federal Public Defender's Office in Manhattan from 1993 to 1998. Mr. Schapiro served as a Law Clerk to U.S. Supreme Court Justice Harry A. Blackmun from 1992 to 1993 and Judge Richard A. Posner of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit from 1991 to 1992. He also served on the Criminal Justice Act Advisory Board of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit in New York, the Board of Directors of the Chicago Low-Income Housing Trust Fund, and the Board of Directors of the Jewish Council on Urban Affairs. Mr. Schapiro received a B.A. from Yale College, an M.A from Oxford University, and a J.D. from Harvard Law School.
President Obama announced his intent to appoint the following individuals to key Administration posts:
Thomas R. Lamont, Appointee for Member, American Battle Monuments Commission
Thomas R. Lamont served as Assistant Secretary of the Army for Manpower and Reserve Affairs at the Department of Defense from 2009 to 2013. He has also served as Special Counsel to the University of Illinois since 2005, and was Executive Director of the Illinois Board of Higher Education from 2004 to 2005. Before entering private practice, he served as Executive Director of the Office of the Illinois State's Attorney Appellate Prosecutor and Director of Civil Litigation in the Office of the Illinois Attorney General. Mr. Lamont is a member and former Chair of the University of Illinois Board of Trustees, and a retired Colonel in the Illinois National Guard, where he served as the State Staff Judge Advocate General. Mr. Lamont received a B.S. from Illinois State University and a J.D. from the University of Illinois College of Law.
Alan B. Lazowski, Appointee for Member, United States Holocaust Memorial Council
Alan B. Lazowski is Chairman and CEO of LAZ Parking, which he founded in 1981. Mr. Lazowksi serves on the Board of Directors of the National Parking Association, the Green Parking Council, the Goodwin College Foundation, the Greater Hartford Jewish Federation, and the Hebrew Home and Hospital. He is a member of the National Executive Committee of the Anti-Defamation League and received the Anti-Defamation League's Torch of Liberty Award in 2007. He was awarded the Thomas and Bette Wolff Family Entrepreneurship award at the University of Connecticut. Mr. Lazowski is the son of Holocaust survivors and is the Founder and Co-Chair of Voices of Hope, an organization for descendants of Holocaust survivors.
Latifa A. Lyles, Appointee for Director of the Women's Bureau, Department of Labor
Latifa A. Lyles is the Deputy Director of the Women's Bureau at the Department of Labor, a position she has held since September 2009. She has been performing the duties of Director of the Women's Bureau since May 2012. Ms. Lyles was the Vice President for Membership at the National Organization for Women from 2005 to 2009. From 2002 to 2005, Ms. Lyles was the Membership Program Manager at the Public Justice Foundation. From 1998 to 2002, she was a Development Planner and Analyst for the National Organization for Women. From 1997 to 1998, she was a Public Policy Associate at the Older Women's League. She is a member of the Board of Directors of the American Civil Liberties Union of the National Capital Area.
Dr. Susan Athey, Appointee for Member, President's Committee on the National Medal of Science
Dr. Susan Athey is a Professor of Economics at Stanford University Graduate School of Business and co-director of the Market Design Working Group at the National Bureau of Economic Research. Dr. Athey was the first female recipient of the John Bates Clark medal, awarded by the American Economic Association, and she is a fellow of the National Academy of Sciences as well as the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. She has served as an elected member of the executive committee of the American Economics Association and the Council of the Econometric Society. She was first appointed to the President's Committee on the National Medal of Science in 2011. Dr. Athey received a B.A. from Duke University in Economics, Mathematics, and Computer Science and a Ph.D. from the Stanford Graduate School of Business.
Dr. John T. Cacioppo, Appointee for Member, President's Committee on the National Medal of Science
Dr. John T. Cacioppo is the Tiffany and Margaret Blake Distinguished Service Professor at The University of Chicago, a position he has held since 1999. He is also the Director of the Center for Cognitive and Social Neuroscience, and the Founding Director of the Arete Initiative in the Office of the Vice President for Research and National Laboratories at The University of Chicago. He has also held teaching positions at The Ohio State University, University of Iowa, and University of Notre Dame. He has been elected to the Society of Experimental Psychologists, the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, and the Society of Experimental Social Psychologists. He is a fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, the Association for Psychological Science, the American Psychological Association, and the Royal Society of Arts. Dr. Cacioppo received a B.S. in Economics from the University of Missouri, and an M.A. and Ph.D. in Psychology from The Ohio State University.
Dr. Sharon R. Long, Appointee for Member, President's Committee on the National Medal of Science
Dr. Sharon R. Long is the Steere-Pfizer Professor of Biological Sciences at Stanford University. She served as Dean of Humanities and Sciences at Stanford University from 2001 to 2007, and was appointed an Investigator of the Howard Hughes Medical Institute from 1994 to 2001. Dr. Long was first appointed to the President's Committee on the National Medal of Science in 2011. She was a science advisor for Obama for America in 2008. She has been a Trustee of the California Academy of Sciences since 2009, and a member of the National Academy of Sciences since 1993. She was named a Presidential Young Investigator by the National Science Foundation in 1984 and received a MacArthur Fellowship in 1992. Dr. Long received a B.S. from Caltech in Biochemistry and a Ph.D. in Cell and Developmental Biology from Yale University.
  