
    PAYMENT OF BURIAL EXPENSES OF DECEASED WAR VETERANS
Whereas, Section 17, Title I, of Public No. 2, 73rd Congress, entitled "An Act To maintain the credit of the United States Government" provides:
"That subject to such regulations as the President may prescribe, allowances may be granted for burial and funeral expenses and transportation of the bodies (including preparation of the bodies) of deceased veterans of any war to the places of burial thereof in the sum not to exceed $107 in any one case."
Now, Therefore, by virtue of the authority vested in me by said law, the following Regulation is hereby promulgated:
I. Where an honorably discharged veteran of any war dies after discharge a flag to drape the casket, and after burial to be given to the next of kin, shall be furnished in all cases.
II. Where an honorably discharged veteran of any war dies after discharge, a sum not exceeding $75 and not exceeding the actual cost, may be allowed for burial, funeral and transportation of the body to the place of burial, provided that no allowance shall be made—
(a) If the veteran's net assets at time of death, exclusive of debts, equals or exceeds the sum of $75;
(b) If the veteran has accrued benefits due from the Veterans' Administration in an amount equal to or in excess of $75;
(c) If an allowance for burial and funeral (including transportation) is provided by a State, county or other political subdivision, lodge, union, fraternal organization, society or beneficial organization, insurance company, Workmans' Compensation Commission, State Industrial Accident Board or employer.
If the amount available from any of the sources above named is less than $75 and not sufficient to meet the actual cost of burial and funeral and transportation of the body, the Veterans' Administration may allow a sum wliich in addition to the amount so available shall not exceed the actual cost of burial and funeral, and transportation of the body, or $75, whichever is the smaller amount.
III. Where burial and funeral expenses have been assumed by the Veterans' Administration under paragraph IV of this Regulation, and further necessary expenses (including transportation) have been incurred, the difference between the expenses assumed by the Veterans' Administration and the expense otherwise incurred, or $75, whichever is the smaller amount, may be paid.
IV. Where death occurs in a Veterans' Administration facility the necessary and actual cost of burial and funeral, not to exceed $75, will be assumed by the Veterans' Administration. Any sum paid under this paragraph will be charged against accrued monetary benefits due from the Veterans' Administration as provided in paragraph II (b), or other funds which may be immediately available for such purposes.
V. Claims for reimbursement must be filed within one year subsequent to the date of death of the veteran. In the event the claimant's application is not complete at the time of original submission, the Veterans' Administration will notify the claimant of the evidence necessary to complete the application and if such evidence is not received within six months of the date of the request therefor, no allowance may be paid.
FRANKLIN D. ROOSEVELT
March 31st 1933The White House.
  