
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate four individuals to serve in his Administration:
The President intends to nominate Janet E. Garvey, of Massachusetts, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Cameroon. Ms. Garvey, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, currently serves as Deputy Coordinator at the Bureau of International Information Programs at the Department of State. Prior to this, she served as Country Director in the Office of North Central European Affairs at the Bureau of European and Eurasian Affairs at the Department of State. Earlier in her career, she served as Deputy Chief of Mission in Budapest. Ms. Garvey received her bachelor's degree from Northeastern University and her JD from Georgetown University.
The President intends to nominate George A. Krol, of New Jersey, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States to Turkmenistan. Mr. Krol, a career member of the Foreign Service, currently serves as Faculty Advisor at the National War College. Prior to this, he served as United States Ambassador to the Republic of Belarus. Earlier in his career, he served as Minister-Counselor for Political Affairs at the United States Embassy in Moscow. Mr. Krol received his bachelor's degree from Harvard University and his master's degree from Oxford University.
The President intends to nominate R. Lyle Laverty, of Colorado, to be Assistant Secretary of the Interior for Fish and Wildlife and Commissioner of the United States Section of the Great Lakes Fishing Commission (Official of the United States Government). Mr. Laverty currently serves as Director of Colorado State Parks. Prior to this, he served as Associate Deputy Chief of the United States Forest Service. Earlier in his career, he served as Regional Forester of the Rocky Mountain Region of the United States Forest Service. Mr. Laverty received his bachelor's degree from Humboldt State University and his master's degree from George Mason University.
The President intends to nominate R. Niels Marquardt, of California, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Madagascar and the Union of Comoros. Mr. Marquardt, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, currently serves as United States Ambassador to the Republic of Cameroon. Prior to this, he served concurrently as the United States Ambassador to Equatorial Guinea. Earlier in his career, he served as Director of the Secretary's Diplomatic Readiness Task Force at the Department of State. Mr. Marquardt received his bachelor's degree from Lewis and Clark College and his master's degrees from the American Graduate School of International Management and the National War College.
  