
    Cisneros Becomes 50th Member of Congress, 7th Congressional Hispanic Caucus Member to Back Biden
Today, California Congressman Gil Cisneros released the following statement endorsing Joe Biden for President of the United States:
"Today, I'm proud to endorse former Vice President Joe Biden as the President of the United States. From New Castle County Council to the United States Senate to the right-hand man of President Obama, Vice President Biden has proven time and time again that he has the experience and temperament to unite our country. He has been a tireless champion for working class Americans, an unwavering advocate for affordable healthcare, and a loyal fighter for our veterans, servicemembers, and their families. Whether it's taking on the powerful gun lobby or protecting DREAMers across the United States, we can count on Vice President Biden to be a voice that represents our values. My wife and I were honored to support his 'It's On Us' campaign, to end sexual assault and violence on college campuses, and I am honored to stand with him once again.
"Residents in California's 39th District deserve a President who will put their needs first and work with Democrats and Republicans in Congress to get things done. Come November, I believe Vice President Biden will beat Donald Trump and become the 46th President of the United States."
In the 2018 cycle, Vice President Biden visited the 39th District to campaign for Rep. Cisneros and the Orange County Democratic candidates. He released an ad, "My Friend," commending Rep. Cisneros for his military service, for starting a charitable foundation that invests in students from underserved communities, and endorsing him for Congress.
Cisneros is the 50th Member of Congress and 7th Congressional Hispanic Caucus member to back Biden, solidifying his significant lead in congressional endorsements among the Democratic field. Cisneros also becomes the 10th Frontline member to endorse Biden, demonstrating how down ballot Democrats continue to rally behind Biden knowing he is the best candidate to put at the top of the ticket and protect the House majority.
Cisneros' endorsement builds on the wide support for Joe Biden in California, which includes prominent leaders like Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti, Sacramento Mayor Darrell Steingberg, Long Beach Mayor Robert Garcia, State Controller Betty Yee, Los Angeles County Supervisor and former Secretary of Labor Hilda Solis, Senator Dianne Feinstein, former Senator Barbara Boxer, Congresswoman Lucille Roybal-Allard, Congressman Tony Cárdenas, Congressman Ami Bera, Congressman John Garamendi, Congressman Lou Correa, and more than 50 others.
Biden for President has previously announced more than 1,400 endorsements from national, state, and local leaders, including current and former U.S. senators and representatives, governors, state elected officials, community leaders, and national security professionals.
  