
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate one individual and appoint five individuals to serve in his administration:
The President intends to nominate Pamela J.H. Slutz of Texas, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Mongolia. A career member of the Senior Foreign Service, she has served as Deputy Director of the American Institute in Taiwan since September 2001. Prior to that assignment, she was a Political Officer in Jakarta. Previously, she served as Director of the Office of Regional Security Policy for the Bureau of East Asian Affairs and as Deputy Director of the Office of Chinese and Mongolian Affairs. Earlier in her career, she worked as Political Officer in Shanghai and Kinshasa. Ms. Slutz is a graduate of Hollins College and earned her master's degree from the University of Hawaii.
The President intends to appoint Margaret Louise Kripke of Texas, to be a Member of the President's Cancer Panel for a three-year term expiring February 20, 2006. Dr. Kripke currently serves as Executive Vice President and Chief Academic Officer at the University of Texas, M.D. Anderson Cancer Center. She earned her bachelor's degree, master's degree and her Ph.D. from the University of California at Berkeley.
The President intends to appoint Jo Ann Krukar Webb of Virginia, to be a Member of the National Veterans Business Development Corporation, for the remainder of a six-year term expiring January 15, 2009. Ms. Webb currently serves as the Director of Federal Relations and Policy at the American Organization of Nurse Executives. She is a graduate of Pennsylvania State University and earned her master's degree from George Washington University.
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the Interstate Commission on the Potomac River Basin (Maryland, Pennsylvania, West Virginia, Virginia and the District of Columbia):
James Winston Porter of Virginia George Wesley Reiger of Virginia Jane Graeffe Witheridge of Pennsylvania
  