
    Mitt Romney today announced the support of Minority Leader Gene Ward, recently-retired Hawaii State Senator Fred Hemmings, and former State Senator Fred Rohlfing. They join former Congressman Charles Djou and former Congresswoman Pat Saiki in endorsing Mitt Romney.
"I'm heartened to have such growing support in Hawaii," said Mitt Romney. "Leader Ward and Senators Hemmings and Rohlfing share my values of empowering small businesses and rebuilding the middle class through conservative pro-growth policies. I look forward to working with them to create more jobs, cut wasteful government spending, and reduce the size of government."
Announcing his support, Minority Leader Gene Ward said, "Hawaii voters looking for a change of direction in Washington should look no further than Mitt Romney. Mitt spent his life in the private sector and will use this knowledge to restart our economy, bring back jobs, and fix the fiscal mess that has long plagued our federal government. I am proud to endorse him and urge fellow Hawaii voters to support him on Tuesday." 
"Washington insiders got us into this mess, we shouldn't expect them to help get us out of it," said former State Senator Fred Hemmings. "Mitt Romney has spent his life as a conservative businessman. He has a record of balancing budgets and creating jobs. That's precisely what we need in a president today. The people of Hawaii know our nation needs a change and we cannot afford to stay on the path to bankruptcy. I know that Mitt Romney has the proven experience and the ability to restore America's promise.  This is an election where we are not only electing a president and I know Mitt Romney will return America to prosperity."
Background on Gene Ward, Fred Hemmings and Fred Rohlfing:

Gene Ward is the Hawaii House Minority Leader. Ward is a former Peace Corps Volunteer who served in Malaysia and as Peace Corps Country Director in East Timor. He served in the Hawaii House of Representatives from 1990-1998 and from 2006 to the present. Ward serves on the Finance, Hawaiian Affairs, International Affairs, and Legislative Management Committees.


Fred Hemmings served ten years in the Hawaii State Senate. He previously served six years in the Hawaii State House of Representatives. Before his career in politics, Hemmings was Hawaii's first world champion surfer. After retiring from competition, he is credited with being the "father of Professional surfing." Fred is a respected sportsman and community leader in Hawaii.


Fred Rohlfing is a former Hawaii State Senator. A lifelong Hawaii resident, Rohlfing served for over 20 years in the state legislature and was a Naval Reserve Intelligence Officer.

  