
    "And Mitt Romney is the one who has the background, the vision, the ideas. He's the only one who has the business experience. I think that affects many women in their vote because most women are very concerned about the future for their children and their grandchildren and they really are concerned that we're at a pivotal point, just as we are in Wisconsin, we're at the epicenter. If things don't change now, we are going to really have a failed future for our children." — Wisconsin State Senator Alberta Darling
Conservative Leader Bay Buchanan and Wisconsin State Senator Alberta Darling
"Wisconsin Women for Romney" Press Conference Call
March 29, 2012
Click Here To Listen To The Entire Call
Highlights From The "Wisconsin Women for Romney" Press Conference Call:
BAY BUCHANAN: "I'm delighted to be on the call because—and I'm thrilled of where we are, the Romney campaign is now, how well Governor Romney's doing. I get a real sense that things are all coming together now in this primary and the reason I am so enthusiastic, as a conservative, to have endorsed and to support and to be helping Governor Romney in any way I can is because I believe that he clearly sees the greatest crisis we face today as a nation and that is the economic crisis. And he's addressed it; he's studied it; he now has a plan; he's laid it out there. It is clearly one that will create the kind of growth that will then lead to the jobs and the expansion of businesses and this is what America needs now to get back to work and to be able to start building for our future and the future of our children and that's what women are worried about. I'm a mother of three boys. I want to make certain they're employed when they get out of school—at least the last one or two out of three still need to get employment. And so, this is what I'm worried about. When I look at the alternative, when I look at Rick Santorum whom I know and he's a good and decent man, he doesn't seem to understand that the greatest problem that we have right now is the economy. He doesn't have a plan and when he was in Congress, he seemed to help create the problem we are in now and did create it. He embraced the earmarks, in spite of considering himself a conservative. He voted to increase the size of government time and time again and he admits it was against his principles because he had to take one for the team. Well, that is what got us into the mess is too many people in Washington doing what's best for themselves and their friends. And we need somebody from outside to get in there who understands how to get it done and who has the courage, the guts, the backbone to get it done right for this country and that is Mitt Romney. There is just no question in my mind and I think more and more Americans are recognizing that and that why I am so pleased at where we are today."
WISCONSIN STATE SENATOR ALBERTA DARLING: "Thank you very much for having me on this program. I'm a big Governor Romney supporter because Wisconsin's main issue is the economy and Governor Romney is the person to give us the bold vision and the guidance and have the guts to be able to do what we're going to have to do to get this country back on the right track. We're in the throes of a recall of our Governor so Wisconsin is very much at who has the guts to really pull the trigger and get things done for this country. And Mitt Romney is the one who has the background, the vision, the ideas. He's the only one who has the business experience. I think that affects many women in their vote because most women are very concerned about the future for their children and their grandchildren and they really are concerned that we're at a pivotal point, just as we are in Wisconsin, we're at the epicenter. If things don't change now, we are going to really have a failed future for our children. So Governor Romney is the one who gives us hope and gives us the courage that things can...That he can beat President Obama, and that's what we're looking for. We're looking for somebody who can beat President Obama and we think that Governor Romney has the confidence, the background, the leadership and the courage and the guts to do what has to be done. But as a governmental person, he knows how government works too so he's really very uniquely positioned to have been both in the world of government and in the world of business and that unique background best positions him to beat President Obama."
  