
    Pool Reports by Erin Logan, Los Angeles Times 



Sent:
Reports:




March 24, 2023 10:50

Travel pool report #1: Checking in
Hello from Ottawa.
I will be your travel pooler today. The pool has been swept and is holding for POTUS at RON.
POTUS has a pack day. Here's what's on the schedule:
11:10 AM THE PRESIDENT participates in an official welcome ceremony and book signing Parliament Hill, Ottawa, Canada  Out-of-Town Pool
11:30 AM THE PRESIDENT participates in a bilateral meeting with Prime Minister Justin Trudeau of Canada Parliament Hill, Ottawa, Canada  Out-of-Town Pool Spray
11:45 AM THE PRESIDENT participates in an expanded bilateral meeting with Prime Minister Justin Trudeau of Canada Parliament Hill, Ottawa, Canada  Out-of-Town Pool Spray
2:00 PM THE PRESIDENT addresses the Canadian Parliament; THE FIRST LADY attends Parliament Hill, Ottawa, Canada Pre-Credentialed Media
3:45 PM THE PRESIDENT and Prime Minister Justin Trudeau of Canada hold a joint press conference Sir John A. Macdonald Building, Ottawa, Canada Pre-Credentialed Media
4:40 PM Supplemental Pool Call Time Stakeout Location
6:15 PM THE PRESIDENT and THE FIRST LADY arrive at a Gala Dinner hosted by Prime Minister Justin Trudeau and Mrs. Sophie Grégoire Trudeau of Canada Canadian Aviation and Space Museum, Ottawa, Canada Out-of-Town Pool
6:30 PM THE PRESIDENT and THE FIRST LADY attend a Gala Dinner hosted by Prime Minister Justin Trudeau and Mrs. Sophie Grégoire Trudeau of Canada Canadian Aviation and Space Museum, Ottawa, Canada Out-of-Town Pool Spray
9:25 PM THE PRESIDENT and THE FIRST LADY depart Ottawa, Canada en route to New Castle, Delaware Ottawa International Airport, Ottawa, Canada Out-of-Town Pool
10:40 PM THE PRESIDENT and THE FIRST LADY arrive in New Castle, Delaware Delaware Air National Guard Base, New Castle, Delaware Supplemental Pool 


March 24, 2023 11:39

Travel pool report #2: motorcade rolling
At 11:37 en route to Parliament Hill
Your pooler did not see POTUS enter his vehicle.


March 24, 2023 11:49

Travel pool report #3: motorcade arrives, Biden and Trudeau shake hands
POTUS' motorcade arrived at Parliament hill at 11:43. (The pool arrived 2 minutes before POTUS and shuffled to the entrance.)
POTUS exited his vehicle at 11:44, shook Trudeau's hand and said "good to see." They stood briefly, turned around and walked in.
Some one from the pool asked them about migration but they did not respond.
Pool is now indoors, waiting for the book signing
Outside parliament hill, a few dozen people watched as the motorcade glided though downtown Ottawa. There were a few protestors.
Two people were holding a yellow sign that said "The Pandemic Isn't Over."
Two other protestors held a yellow sign that read "Media if the virus"
One protestor held "Biden and Trudeau are criminals"
From the WH:
Traveling with the President via motorcade en route to Parliament Hill, Ottawa, Canada:
Secretary Antony Blinken, Department of State Secretary Jennifer Granholm, Department of Energy  Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs Jen O'Malley Dillon, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations Liz Sherwood-Randall, Assistant to the President & Homeland Security Advisor & Deputy National Security Advisor Karine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press Secretary Ben LaBolt, Assistant to the President & Director of Communications Lael Brainard, Assistant to the President & Director of the National Economic Council David L. Cohen, Ambassador of the United States to Canada Rufus Gifford, Chief of Protocol Ashley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office Operations Travis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director  Carlyn Reichel, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for Speechwriting & Strategic Initiatives Ariana Berengaut, Senior Advisor to the National Security Advisor Charlie Fromstein, National Security Council Director for Visits and Diplomatic Affairs John Kirby, National Security Council Coordinator for Strategic Communications
The President is participating in an official welcome ceremony and book signing at Parliament Hill with Prime Minister Justin Trudeau of Canada.
Welcoming Party T.H. George J. Furey, Speaker of the Senate  T.H. Anthony Rota, Speaker of the House of Commons  T.H. Marc Gold, Government Representative in the Senate  T.H. Pierre Poilievre, Leader of the Opposition in the House of Commons T.H. Donald Plett, Leader of the Opposition in the Senate  T.H. Raymonde Saint-Germain, Facilitator of the Independent Senators Group in the Senate T.H. Scott Tannas, Leader of the Canadian Senators Group in the Senate T.H. Jane Cordy, Leader of the Progressive Senators Group in the Senate Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, Leader of the Bloc Québécois in the House of Commons Mr. Jagmeet Singh, Leader of the New Democratic Party in the House of Commons Ms. Elizabeth May, Leader of the Green Party of Canada in the House of Commons Mr. Gérald Lafrenière, Interim Clerk of the Senate and Clerk of Parliament Mr. Eric Janse, Interim Clerk of the House of Commons  Mr. Greg J. Peters, Usher of the Black Rod  Mr. Pat McDonnell, Sergeant-at-Arms 


March 24, 2023 11:57

Travel pool report #4: book signing
POTUS walked into the room at 11:48 where he shook the hands of various Canadian officials. Trudeau walked close behind him.
At 11:51, POTUS sat in a green-ish chair at a wood desk to sign welcome books.Trudeau stood to his left. At 11:52, POTUS said "thank you everybody"
An official handed POTUS what looks chocolate bar.
"Depending on how tough your questions are, you can share the chocolate with me." and exited the room at 11:53.
The pool is being moved for POTUS' bilateral meeting with Trudeau. 


March 24, 2023 12:06

Travel pool report #5: pool spray for first bilat
The pool spray began at 11:57. Trudeau spoke at the top of the meeting, thanking Biden for visiting the country.
Trudeau first made his remarks in English then in French.
Your fearless co pooler Myah Ward has details on the spray. Please check agains the transcript:
Prime Minister Trudeau talked about joint economic interests and geopolitical security. He said there is "No greater friend and ally than the United States"
President Biden noted that it had been too long since his last visit to Canada in 2016.
"We're lucky we have Canada," Biden said. "…there's no fundamental difference in the democratic values we share." Said the two leaders have a lot to discuss.
From the WH
The President is participating in a bilateral meeting with Prime Minister Justin Trudeau of Canada.
U.S. Manifest The President T.H. Antony Blinken, Secretary of State T.H. Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs
Canada Manifest Prime Minister Justin Trudeau of Canada T.H. Mélanie Joly, Minister of Foreign Affairs Ms. Katie Telford, Chief of Staff to the Prime Minister
The pool was shuffled out at 11:59. We are holding in an open hall nearby. 


March 24, 2023 12:42

Travel pool report #6: second pool spray for expanded bilateral
At 12:32, the pool was shuffled into another room, which was down the hall from Trudeau's office, for the expanded bilateral meeting in what seems to be called the Cabinet Room. In the room, members from both leaders administrations sat around a grand wood table.
At 12:35, the pool was moved into the room and then was told to leave. Your pooler could only hear Trudeau welcome people to the room.
The pool is holding in a room 2 flights down.
From the WH:
The President is participating in an expanded bilateral meeting with Prime Minister Justin Trudeau of Canada.
U.S. Manifest The President T.H. Antony Blinken, Secretary of State T.H. Jennifer Granholm, Secretary of Energy  T.H. Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs T. H. David L. Cohen, Ambassador of the United States to Canada T.H. Jen O'Malley Dillon, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff T.H. Liz Sherwood-Randall, Assistant to the President & Homeland Security Advisor  T.H. Karine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press Secretary T.H. Lael Brainard, Assistant to the President & Director of the National Economic Council T.H. Brian Nichols, Assistant Secretary of State for Western Hemisphere Affairs T.H. Juan Gonzalez, Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for Western Hemisphere, National Security Council Mr. Max Hamilton, Director for North America, National Security Council 


March 24, 2023 12:54

Travel pool report #6a: more from the second pool spray
Here is some color from the pool spray ahead of the expanded bilateral meeting shared by Toronto Star's bureau chief Tonda MacCharles:
"Welcome to our cabinet room," Trudeau said, pointing at the massive table. "This one is the new one," he said, "since the renovations."
More From the WH:
Canada ManifestPrime Minister Justin Trudeau of Canada T.H. Chrystia Freeland, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance T.H. Mélanie Joly, Minister of Foreign Affairs T.H. François-Philippe Champagne, Minister of Innovation, Science and Industry T.H. Mary Ng, Minister of International Trade, Export Promotion, Small Business and Economic Development T.H. Jonathan Wilkinson, Minister of Natural Resources T.H. Anita Anand, Minister of National Defence T.H. Steven Guilbeault, Minister of Environment and Climate Change H.E. Kirsten Hillman, Ambassador of Canada to the United States Ms. Janice Charette, Clerk of the Privy Council and Secretary to the Cabinet Ms. Jody Thomas, National Security and Intelligence Advisor to the Prime Minister Ms. Katie Telford, Chief of Staff to the Prime Minister Mr. Brian Clow, Deputy Chief of Staff to the Prime Minister Mr. Patrick Travers, Senior Advisor, Prime Minister's Office 


March 24, 2023 14:21

Travel pool report #7: 2 min warning for Biden remarks to Parliament
Your fearless co-pooler Myah Ward spotted Secretary of State Antony Blinkin, Jennifer Granholm, Secretary of Energy and Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs on the Parliament floor speaking with what appear to be Canadian lawmakers ahead of Biden's remarks.
The remarks are being live streamed here:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4E2G75r0ekI 


March 24, 2023 14:33

Travel pool report #8: Biden Parliament visit, remarks
at 2:30
FLOTUS is in the room with him.
The remarks are being live streamed here:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4E2G75r0ekI
While Canadian lawmakers awaited POTUS, Chrystia Freeland, Canadas Deputy Prime Minister, looked up to the gallery where the 2 Michael's sat, and started a contagious applause. They were given a standing ovation. Here's more details on them:
https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=7008cb296e&e=2156f09505 
Members of Biden's cabinet are sitting in black chairs on the floor in the center of the room.
From the WH:
Participating in a greet with the President and the First Lady at Parliament Hill:
Prime Minister Justin Trudeau of Canada  Mrs. Sophie Grégoire Trudeau of Canada T.H. George Furey, Speaker of the Senate  Mrs. Karen Furey, Spouse of the Speaker of the Senate  T.H. Anthony Rota, Speaker of the House of Commons Ms. Chantal Piche Rota, Spouse of the Speaker of the House of Commons Mr. Gérald Lafrenière, Interim Clerk of the Senate and Clerk of the Parliament Mr. Eric Janse, Interim Clerk of the House of Commons  Mr. Greg Peters, Usher of the Black Rod  Mr. Patrick McDonell, Sergeant-At-Arms of the House of Commons 


March 24, 2023 15:35

Travel pool report #9: Biden Parliament visit ends
Biden's remarks ended At 3:25
Just before leaving the room, POTUS pointed to the 2 Michaels.
POTUS, FLOTUS, Trudeau and his spouse left the chamber at 3:33.
From the WH:
In attendance for the President's address to the Canadian Parliament at the House of Commons:
The First Lady Prime Minister Justin Trudeau of Canada Mrs. Sophie Grégoire Trudeau of Canada T.H. Anthony Rota, Speaker of the House of Commons Members of both houses of Parliament, members of the Canadian government and their guests and dignitaries, and members of the Biden-Harris administration
Speaking Program T.H. Anthony Rota, Speaker of the House of Commons Prime Minister Justin Trudeau of Canada The President T.H. George Furey, Speaker of the Senate  T.H. Anthony Rota, Speaker of the House of Commons 


March 24, 2023 16:17

Travel pool report #10: pool en route to Trudeau-Biden presser
After POTUS left, the pool was moved to a room 2 flights down from the temporary parliament to hold.
At 4:15, the pool began walking to another building across the street for the joint news conference.
Your pooler has been advised that POTUS will be driven to this building. His arrival will not be captured by WH pool stills or TV. Your pooler has been told the next time the pool will see Biden is at the news conference.
By the way, this presser will be live-streamed here: https://www.youtube.com/live/JFTUC4Gnd6c?feature=share
From the WH: The President is participating in a pull-aside with T.H. Pierre Poilievre, Leader of the Opposition in the House of Commons. 


March 24, 2023 16:30

Travel pool report #10a: Pool holding at presser room
The pool arrived at the Sir John A Macdonald Building, located across the street from parliament, around 4:20. The pool is awaiting POTUS and Trudeau in the room where the news conference is expected to take place.
Your pooler has not been given a specific time for when this presser will begin.
The presser will be live-streamed here: https://www.youtube.com/live/JFTUC4Gnd6c?feature=share 


March 24, 2023 16:41

Travel pool report #10b: 2 min warning until joint presser begins
(At 4:33, members in the pool spotted
Antony Blinken, Secretary of State, Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs and WH Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre enter the room.) 


March 24, 2023 16:45

Travel pool report #10c: Joint presser begins
At 4:44
The presser will be live-streamed here: https://www.youtube.com/live/JFTUC4Gnd6c?feature=share 


March 24, 2023 17:30

Travel pool report #10d: Joint presser ends
At 5:26
Pool is being swiftly shuffled to the motorcade.
During the news conference, POTUS interjected when Trudeau began speaking of what he does as a parent for his kids on social media.
"Pray," Biden said.
A reporter shouted a question, asking if there should there be a higher cost for Iran.
"We're not going to stop," POTUS replied


March 24, 2023 17:33

Travel pool report #11: motorcade rolling
At 5:31 en route to RON
Your pooler did not see POTUS enter his vehicle.
To clarify, the question on Iran occurred as POTUS was walking out of the room.


March 24, 2023 17:38

Travel pool report #12: motorcade arrives at RON
The motorcade arrived at RON at 5:35
Your pooler did not see POTUS exit his vehicle.
There were a dozens of protestors in front of parliament and dozens onlookers more further down the street.
Your pooler saw one protestor holding a Nazi salute with his left arm.
The pool is holding outside the hotel.


March 24, 2023 18:43

Travel pool report #13: motorcade rolling
At 6:41
En route to Canadian Aviation and Space Museum, Ottawa, Canada where PM Trudeau and his spouse will host POTUS and VPOTUS for a gala dinner.
(During the first 30 minutes of so off the hold, much of the pool held inside RON while some stayed in the vans. The pool held in the van for the remainder of the hold.)


March 24, 2023 18:56

Travel pool report #14: motorcade arrives at gala
At 6:53
Your pooler did not see POTUS enter or exit his vehicle.
Pool is being moved to position to capture POTUS' arrival, the blessing, a musical performance and Trudeau and POTUS' respective toasts.
This event will be live-streamed: https://www.youtube.com/live/a4R2zMVbfmQ?feature=share
During the ride through the city, your pooler saw dozens of onlookers recording the motorcade on their phones. 


March 24, 2023 19:34

Travel pool report #15: Gala arrival, opening prayer, remarks and toasts
At 7:06, POTUS entered the large hall in the Canadian Aviation and Space Museum.
POTUS and Trudeau walked side by side down the red carpet, splayed in front of old aircrafts on display. Their spouses walked behind them. Their spouses came from behind them to stand next to them as they paused at the photo/tv line. They then moved to their seats. Biden and Trudeau's seats are located at the same table in front of the lectern.
POTUS and Trudeau stood during the opening prayer. After the prayer, POTUS walked over to Elder Claudette Commanda, Chancellor of University of Ottawa, who have the opening prayer, to speak briefly with her.
After Trudeau's remarks and toast, POTUS took the stage at 7:29. Attendees stood and applauded when Biden took the stage. They also snapped photos on their phones.
POTUS' remarks ended at 7:33.
POTUS toast was this—"To family. To Canada and to the United States."
Reminder, this event is being live-streamed: https://www.youtube.com/live/a4R2zMVbfmQ?feature=share
The pool is being moved to a holding area, where it is expected to remain until the dinner commences.
From the WH: Greeting the President and the First Lady upon arrival at the Gala Dinner hosted by Prime Minister Justin Trudeau and Mrs. Sophie Grégoire Trudeau of Canada at the Canadian Aviation and Space Museum:
H.E. T.R.H. Mary Simon, Governor General of Canada  H.E. Whit Fraser, Spouse of the Governor General Prime Minister Justin Trudeau of Canada Mrs. Sophie Grégoire Trudeau of Canada
The President and the First Lady are attending a Gala Dinner hosted by Prime Minister Justin Trudeau and Mrs. Sophie Grégoire Trudeau of Canada.
Attendees H.E. T.R.H. Mary Simon, Governor General of Canada  H.E. Whit Fraser, Spouse of the Governor General T. H. David L. Cohen, Ambassador of the United States to Canada Mrs. Rhonda Cohen, Spouse of Ambassador David Cohen H.E. Kirsten Hillman, Ambassador of Canada to the United States Mr. Duncan Cameron, Spouse of H.E. Kirsten Hillman  Members of the Canadian government and their guests Members of the Biden-Harris administration
Pre-Program Musical Performance The Prairie Dance Fire, representing the Métis and Intuit throat singers Eagle River Drum Group, representing the First Nations
Run of Show Elder Claudette Commanda, Chancellor of University of Ottawa Alan Doyle, Canadian Musician Prime Minister Justin Trudeau of Canada The President 


March 24, 2023 20:58

Travel pool report #16: motorcade rolling
At 8:56pm
En route to Ottawa International Airport
Your pooler did not see POTUS enter his vehicle.
From the WH:
Participating in a greet with the President and the First Lady at the Canadian Aviation and Space Museum:
Prime Minister Justin Trudeau of Canada Mrs. Sophie Grégoire Trudeau of Canada H.E. T.R.H. Mary Simon, Governor General of Canada H.E. Whit Fraser, Spouse of the Governor General  Elder Claudette Commanda, Chancellor of University of Ottawa Alan Doyle, Canadian Musician Charlotte Cardin, Canadian Singer-Songwriter The Eagle River Drum Group Christina Tessier, CEO and President of Ingenium
________
Menu for the Gala Dinner hosted by Prime Minister Justin Trudeau and Mrs. Sophie Grégoire Trudeau of Canada:
FIRST COURSECedar salt and seaweed crusted rare-seared east coast yellowfin tuna White bean hummus, cucumber, pickled radish and bitter greens, Flax seed cracker, lemon parsley emulsion
OR
Cedar salt and seaweed crusted seared tofu White bean hummus, cucumber, pickled radish, and bitter greens, Flax seed cracker, lemon parsley emulsion
MAIN COURSEBraised short rib of Alberta beef butternut squash purée, Yukon gold potato pavé, wildflower honey roasted carrots, fine green beans Pelee Island Cabernet Sauvignon jus
OR
Le coprin mushroom, lentil, and vegetable terrine butternut squash purée, Yukon gold potato pavé, wildflower honey roasted carrots, fine green beans charred tomato and shallot jus
ADDITIONAL MAIN COURSE OPTIONSChicken option: Rosemary and lemon roasted chicken supreme butternut squash puree, Yukon gold potato pave, wildflower honey roasted carrots, fine green beans. Grain mustard jus Fish option: Olive oil poached B.C. Chinook salmon butternut squash puree, Yukon gold potato pave, wildflower honey roasted carrots, fine green beans. Sea buckthorn and cranberry vinaigrette
DESSERT Wild blueberry and Quebec maple mousse cake Screech rum caramel, sweetgrass meringue fresh berries
OR
Vegan dark chocolate and maple blondie Maple caramel, vegan sweetgrass meringue fresh berries
_______
 Week Ahead (3/27)
On Sunday, the President and the First Lady will return to the White House from Wilmington, Delaware.
On Monday, the President will host the SBA Women's Business Summit in the East Room.
On Tuesday, the President will travel to Durham, North Carolina to kick off the Investing in America Tour. The President will visit Wolfspeed, a semiconductor manufacturer, to discuss how his Investing in America agenda has led to the strongest job growth in history, over $300 billion in major private sector investments nationwide, stronger infrastructure, and a Made in America manufacturing boom that is strengthening supply chains and national security.
On Wednesday, the President will host a reception in the East Room celebrating Greek Independence Day.
On Friday, the President will meet with the President's Council of Advisors on Science and Technology to discuss their ongoing work toadvance American science, technology, andinnovation.
Later, the President will travel to Wilmington, Delaware where he will remain for the weekend. 


March 24, 2023 21:35

Travel pool report #17: airport arrival wheels up momentarily
The motorcade arrived at airport at 9:26.
As the motorcade glided through downtown Ottawa, your pooler spotted dozens of people holding their phones, watching the vehicles as they drove by.
POTUS exited his vehicle at 9:30, and spoke with various people on the tarmac with FLOTUS before they ascended AF1 and waved before going in at 9:32
He did not speak with press on the tarmac.
Wheels up momentarily.
This will be the final pool report…for a while. The WH is putting the travel pool on the small plane with POTUS and your pooler will not have internet access until JBA.
The travel pool will travel on AF1 with POTUS to Wilmington. The travel pool will remain on AF1 when POTUS exits. The supplemental pooler, the extremely talented Courtney Subramanian, will take over from New Castle, Delaware. Travel pool will take AF1 to JBA. Your pooler will send the official departure times after the travel pool arrives at JBA.
From the WH: Greeting the President and the First Lady upon arrival at Ottawa International Airport:
Mr. Stewart Wheeler, Chief of Protocol of Canada H.E. Kirsten Hillman, Ambassador of Canada to the United States Mr. Duncan Cameron, Spouse of H.E. Kirsten Hillman T.H. David Cohen, Ambassador of the United States to Canada Mrs. Rhonda Cohen, Spouse of Ambassador David Cohen
Traveling with the President and the First Lady aboard Air Force One en route to Delaware Air National Guard Base:
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations Anthony Bernal, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the First Lady Curtis Ried, Deputy Assistant to the President & NSC Chief of Staff & Executive Secretary 


March 24, 2023 23:58

Travel pool report #17a: wheels up in Ottawa, wheels down in Delaware
AF1 had wheels up in Ottawa at 9:50.
Wheels down in New Castle, Delaware at 10:56




Pool Reports below by Courtney Subramanian, Los Angeles Times 



Sent:
Reports:




March 24, 2023 23:13

Supplemental pool report #1 - DANG arrival
AF1 was wheels down at Delaware Air National Guard Base at 10:56 pm ET.
POTUS and FLOTUS stepped off AF1 at 11:05 pm ET and stopped to speak to the greeters (listed below) before climbing into the Beast a minute later. POTUS did not stop to talk to press.
Greeting the President and the First Lady upon arrival at Delaware Air National Guard Base:
Lieutenant Colonel Brian Malloy of the 721st Troop Command  Command Sergeant Major Joseph Leighton of the 721st Troop Command We're rolling for the president's Wilmington residence at 11:09 pm. 


March 24, 2023 23:28

Supplemental pool report #2 - Residence arrival
The motorcade arrived at the president's Wilmington home at 11:21 pm ET. Per the usual location, your pooler did not lay eyes on POTUS entering the residence. The pool van left POTUS' neighborhood at 11:22 pm. 


March 24, 2023 23:34

Supplemental pool report #3 - Travel/photo lid
We have a travel/photo lid at 11:32pm ET.
Have a great night. 



  