
    
Bolstered by a new American Research Group poll showing Newt in first place in Mississippi, Newt and Callista campaigned yesterday across the Magnolia State for the second straight day.  They held events in Meridian, Ellisville, and Gulfport, drawing large and enthusiastic crowds along the way.  At each stop, Newt outlined his bold solutions for job creation and increasing American energy production to lower gasoline prices below $2.50.
In Meridian, Newt energized a crowd of over 300 people at the Riley Center on the campus of Mississippi State University.
After listening to Republican presidential candidate Newt Gingrich Friday morning inside the MSU Riley Center, Judy Hughes came away impressed even though before hearing Gingrich talk Hughes admitted to being up in the air as to who she would support.
"Newt is clearly an intelligent person and I think he would mop the floor with Obama," Hughes said. "And Obama needs it."
Gingrich, the former House speaker, looked refreshed and energized as he addressed about 300 people inside the Riley Center. He joked about some of Obama's policies but also discussed his ideas of where America should be going. He said without vision, people perish.
  ...
  Peg Gardiner said she was encouraged after listening to Gingrich. She said everything Gingrich said made sense.
"And plus he has a brain and I think he knows how to use it," Gardiner added.
  ...
  Kathleen Carucci said she hadn't made up her mind before hearing Gingrich speak but after listening to his national security and energy plans, she admitted to leaning in his direction.
"I think he has clear ideas, good ideas, on how to get America back to a state of growth," Carucci said. "I think that is the key to true independence for this country."

In Ellisville, Newt spoke to a packed auditorium of over 800 people at Jones County Junior College, commemorating their centennial celebration and talking about the greatness of America.
Gingrich referred to the junior college's centennial celebration and talked about how life was for those living in 1911. Then, he referred to Facebook, Twitter, commercial radio, advancements made in the movie industry, the establishment of commercial airlines and the many modern trends of today's society. He said "How we live today, would be a miracle to those who lived in 1911."
Gingrich said it's important to note the things that have made America great.
"This has been the most remarkable country in the history of the world," he said. "People come to America and learn how to dream, learn how to work hard."
  ...
  Ron Douda of Petal, wearing a hat imprinted with "Taxed Enough Already," said he came to the event to celebrate his birthday and to show his support of Gingrich.
"It's great that he's coming to Mississippi," Douda said. "I like his ability to work in Congress. He knows how to bring the Democrats and Republicans together and he could balance the budget."
Brenda Turner of Eastabuchie and Cindy Flanagin of Petal brought their own signs to the event to show their support of Gingrich's campaign.
"I'm supporting him," Turner said. "He's our best shot. I believe in what he stands for."

After his speech in Ellisville, Newt made an impromptu stop at a drilling platform in Laurel before heading over to his next event in Gulfport.  At the Gulfport High School Auditorium, Newt slammed President Obama's anti-energy policies and outlined his plan to lower gasoline prices to $2.50 per gallon.
Much of his speech was focused on domestic drilling and energy independence.
If elected, Gingrich said, he'd push for drilling enough oil and gas in America "so that no American president will ever again bow down to a Saudi king."
Gingrich showed his history professor background as he quoted the Declaration of Independence and explained the personal sovereignty he said is the "heart of America."
"Unalienable rights means no judge, no bureaucrat and no politician can come between you and God," Gingrich said.
He repeated many of his campaign themes, including his promise to bring gas down to $2.50 a gallon, maybe less he said, once more domestic drilling is begun and the law of supply and demand takes over.
He chided Obama over recent "algae" comments.
"He's done this three times now, and again a little bit in a press conference," Gingrich said. "He says that anybody who tells you they'll bring gas down to $2.50 a gallon doesn't know what they're talking about ... Then he gives us his solution. Anyone here remember what that is?"

Click here for a recap of day one of Newt and Callista's whirlwind tour across Mississippi.
  