
    Today, former Charlottesville Mayor Mike Signer, who represented Charlottesville during the "Unite the Right" white supremacist riot that resulted in a young woman losing her life, released the following statement endorsing Joe Biden for President of the United States:
"Joe Biden launched his campaign for president with the word 'Charlottesville,' because in his wisdom, he saw the 'Unite the Right' rally of August 2017 for what it was: an assault on American democracy that would not have happened but for Donald Trump's stoking of our fears and abandonment of basic human decency. With the end of my longtime friend Pete Buttigieg's campaign, I am proud to support not just Joe Biden's campaign for president but the ideals his campaign is about: hope over hate, tolerance over extremism, and an America founded on freedom, not fear."
Today's endorsement comes on the heels of over 30 local and statewide Virginia leaders endorsing Joe Biden, including Virginia House Majority Leader Charniele Herring. This also follows the announced support of several prominent Virginia leaders in recent days, including former Governor Terry McAuliffe, Senator Tim Kaine, Congresswoman Jennifer Wexton, Congressman Bobby Scott, and Congressman Don Beyer. These leaders join more than 50 leaders from across the Commonwealth backing Biden, including Congressman Donald McEachin, Congresswoman Elaine Luria, Richmond Mayor Levar Stoney, Roanoke Mayor Sherman Lea, Virginia State Senate Majority Leader Dick Saslaw, Virginia Legislative Black Caucus Chair Delegate Lamont Bagby and other state legislators and local leaders.
Last November, Biden endorsed 23 local candidates in some of the most competitive districts ahead of Virginia's General Assembly elections, helping turn both legislative chambers blue. In 2018, he also worked to elect candidates up and down the ballot in Virginia, including now-Reps. Abigail Spanberger, Jennifer Wexton, and Elaine Luria, whose wins in critical Red to Blue districts helped Democrats take back the U.S. House.
Biden for President has previously announced more than 1,400 endorsements from national, state, and local leaders, including current and former U.S. senators and representatives, governors, state elected officials, community leaders, and national security professionals.
  