
    'The presidential candidate running in the name of climate change has arrived, and his name is Jay Inslee'
Seattle - Governor Jay Inslee launched his campaign Friday with a clear call to put climate change front-and-center in the nation's priorities.
Here is what news outlets are saying about the Gov. Inslee's 2020 presidential bid:
Washington Post - Washington Gov. Jay Inslee joins 2020 Democratic presidential field"Washington Gov. Jay Inslee on Friday became the latest Democrat to launch a 2020 presidential bid, asserting that he is the only candidate who will make combating climate change the nation's top priority...In his remarks, Inslee argued that fighting climate change is central to progress on an array of other fronts, including health care, national security and racial justice."
NPR - Promising To Tackle Climate Change, Washington Gov. Jay Inslee Joins 2020 Race"Washington Gov. Jay Inslee is joining the growing Democratic primary field, making climate change a top issue as he vies to challenge President Trump next year...Inslee is the first to make climate change the central facet of his campaign, which could help him carve out a unique niche. The issue is a rising concern among progressives and millennials especially, evident in the recent push for the Green New Deal in Congress."
Rolling Stone - Jay Inslee Wants to Be the First Climate President. Is America Ready?"Inslee is betting that his vision can win, and that a United States government united around the cause of climate change and a speedy transition to a new economy fueled by solar and wind power and producing low-emission vehicles will galvanize voters young and old, black, brown and white. "If you care about the economy, this is for you, because it's the best job-creation opportunity we have," he says. "If you care about health care, this is for you, because it's one of the biggest health threats that we face. It's national security, obviously. It's how we use trade policies."
Vox - Meet the first Democrat running for president on climate change"After years on the periphery of American political life, climate change is having a bit of a moment….Washington Gov. Jay Inslee, who will announce his presidential candidacy Friday morning, is hoping to seize that moment. Over the course of his 30-year career in public life — first in the Washington state legislature, then in the House of Representatives, then, since 2012, governor of Washington state — he has always prioritized sustainability, and not always to his political benefit. Now he sees his signature issue and the national zeitgeist aligning at last, and he thinks it can take him to the White House."
Vanity Fair - Jay Inslee Announces 2020 Presidential Run to Literally Save the World"Washington Governor Jay Inslee on Friday formally announced that he is running for president, joining a crowded Democratic primary field as a long-shot candidate with a climate-focused campaign message…. [Inslee's] been an outspoken critic of the president, telling The Atlantic in January that a strong challenger needs to show voters that "you can help America rise to the better angels rather than our lower behavior."
Earther-Gizmodo - Jay Inslee Enters 2020 Presidential Race, and Climate Change Is His Top Priority"The presidential candidate running in the name of climate change has arrived, and his name is Jay Inslee...So far, many Democratic candidates have championed defeating climate change. However, none have singled it out as their top issue. But Inslee isn't limiting himself to only climate change; he's treating it as a threat multiplier and using it to talk about unemployment, racial justice, and corporate handouts.
Huffington Post - Jay Inslee Officially Launches Historic 2020 Bid Centered On Climate Change"Washington Gov. Jay Inslee on Friday became the first major candidate in history to officially launch a White House bid centered entirely on combating climate change..."
  