
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
March 18
In the morning, the President traveled to New Orleans, LA. In the afternoon, he traveled to Leesville, where he met at Fort Polk with family members of U.S. troops who are serving in Bosnia. In the early evening, the President traveled to Alexandria, LA, where he attended a performance of the musical drama "Messiah" at the United Pentecostal Church. He then returned to Washington, DC.
The President announced his intention to nominate Christopher Robert Hill as Ambassador to the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, George Ward, Jr., as Ambassador to Namibia, and Sharon P. Wilkinson as Ambassador to Burkina Faso.
March 19
The President announced his intention to nominate Dane Farnsworth Smith as Ambassador to Senegal.
The President announced his intention to nominate Gina McDonald to the National Council on Disability.
The President declared a major disaster in the State of Oregon and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms and high winds on December 10-12, 1995.
March 20
In the morning, the President met with congressional leaders in the Oval Office to discuss the budget negotiations.
The President declared a major disaster in the State of Alabama and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms, flooding, and tornadoes on March 5-6.
March 21
In the afternoon, the President attended a meeting with National Security Adviser Anthony Lake and Ian Paisley, leader of Northern Ireland's Democratic Unionist Party, in the National Security Adviser's office.
The President announced his intention to appoint Brady C. Williamson to be Chair and a member of the National Bankruptcy Review Commission.
The President announced his intention to appoint Alfred Gottschalk and Nathan Shapell to the U.S. Holocaust Memorial Council.
The President announced his intention to nominate Genta Hawkins Holmes as Ambassador to Australia, Kenneth C. Brill as Ambassador to Cyprus, Day Olin Mount as Ambassador to Iceland, Glen Robert Rase as Ambassador to Brunei Darussalam, and Thomas C. Hubbard as Ambassador to the Philippines and Palau.
March 22
The President announced his intention to nominate Lino Gutierrez as Ambassador to Nicaragua, Dennis K. Hays as Ambassador to Suriname, Dennis C. Jett as Ambassador to Peru, James Francis Creagan as Ambassador to Honduras, and Donald J. Planty as Ambassador to Guatemala.
  