
    HOUSTON, Texas – Today, the Cruz for President campaign announced the endorsement of Congressman David Schweikert. Congressman Schweikert represents Arizona's 6th district. He was first elected to Congress in 2010 and has regularly been recognized as a leading conservative reformer. Prior to being elected to the United States Congress in 1990, he was elected to the Arizona House of Representatives, where he served two terms and also was selected as Majority Whip.
"My top priority in Congress has always been to do what the Washington insiders simply refuse to do, and that is to reduce the size and cost of government and save our nation from the crushing debt that the Washington politicians have placed on the backs of each and every citizen of our nation," said Schweikert. "Throughout the never ending battles to do this, Ted Cruz has always been a principled leader fighting to do the very same thing. With a federal debt that is quickly approaching an unfathomable $20 trillion, our country's future economic growth and prosperity are in grave danger unless we elect a principled conservative who is truly committed to stopping the out of control spending and borrowing that has led us to where we are today."
"It's clear that Ted is the conservative leader that we need as our next president, and my wife Joyce and I are proud to give him our strongest endorsement. In the upcoming Arizona presidential preference primary, Ted is the clear choice for voters who want a conservative president who is truly committed to fixing the mess in Washington," Schweikert concluded.
"I am thrilled to have such a passionate fighter for liberty on our team," said Cruz. "David has spent his time in Congress fighting against the Washington Cartel and protecting the interests of the American people. He has worked to rein in Obama's lawlessness, repeal Obamacare, and stop the President's illegal executive amnesty. David is a strong addition to our team and I am thankful for his leadership fighting on issues that are most important to conservatives."
  