
    Verona, PA - On the final day of Supreme Court hearings to determine the constitutionality of Obamacare, Republican presidential candidate Rick Santorum unveils his solution for resolving the healthcare crisis in America: A Better Way - America's Healthcare Freedom Agenda. Santorum outlined his plan at the Macdonald and Owen Lumber Company in Sparta, Wisconsin, highlighting the fact that Obamacare, which was born of Romneycare, has set a dangerous precedent for future government activity.
Rick Santorum said, "Obamacare and Romneycare crush jobs and are an affront to our freedoms. Americans know that Obamacare is bad policy, bad medicine, bad for the country, and badly needs to be repealed. Republicans need a nominee with the credibility to take on President Obama on an issue so important to the voters, and I am that person."
Santorum believes every American should have access to high-quality, affordable health care with health care decisions made by patients and their physicians, not government bureaucrats. With his plan, that is possible.
Santorum said, "There is a better way to treat our nations' health; my Healthcare Freedom Agenda will promote patient-centered healthcare rather than government-centered healthcare. First, my plan honors the fact that primary responsibility for good health lies with people and their families, not a bureaucrat issuing an edict; second, we need market-based reforms, not solutions imposed by Washington."
In addition, Rick would start with repealing Obamacare and replace it with the following specific provisions:


Unleash the power of competition and choice


Ability to purchase health insurance across state lines


Health coverage that you own and control


Reduce punitive Tax DIS-incentives on Individuals


Increase affordability


Combat costs of defensive medicine and excessive regulation on providers.


Help Families with the Challenges of Pre-Existing Conditions through State Risk Pools


Provide states with block grants to fund Medicaid according to their individual needs


Reform and Strengthen Medicare


Incentivize Medical Innovation

"As we seek to solve the health care problem, let's hold true to the principles of John Adams and our other founders enshrined in the Declaration of Independence and in our Constitution rather than the mandates and edicts of King George by respecting and protecting Americans' fundamental freedoms," Santorum said. "Let's embrace freedom and opportunity together and address real challenges with American solutions. This is the best prescription for American's health and our future."
  