
    Newt's senior adviser Randy Evans was on CNN last night explaining the delegate math that he outlined in his recent strategy memo. The bottom line is that halftime of the Republican nomination process is the Louisiana primary on March 24. Despite what the Romney campaign, the Washington Establishment, and the elite media want you to believe, this race is far from over.
With no candidate remotely close to 1,144 delegates, the magic number needed to secure the nomination, the nomination will not be decided until the fourth quarter.
That's why Mike Huckabee and others are saying it would be foolish for Newt to drop out. Here's what Governor Huckabee said on Laura Ingraham's show today:
Gingrich should stay in the race simply because any one of the candidates could have a moment where they slip up and the opening will be created.

Political Scientist Jamie Hunter agrees, writing that Newt brings enthusiasm to the race and a focus on issues that the other candidates are ignoring.
Gingrich's continued presence also helps the democratic process. Primaries are all about choice, but a shrinking field denies that. Gingrich brings attention to some issues that Romney and Santorum have glossed over, such as energy policy, science, and innovation. Voters should have the broadest understanding of how the GOP will address the critical issues so that they can make the most informed vote choice. Big states like New York, California, Texas, and Pennsylvania also deserve to a multi-candidate pool. These states have a huge share of the national population, and their primaries will indicate where the larger electorate stands on the candidates. This was one of the main reasons why Republicans revamped their 2012 primary rules.

Judson Phillips, the founder of Tea Party Nation, says Newt staying in the race is the only way to block a Romney coronation.
Newt at this point must stay in the race. If the race goes down to a one-on-one race between Romney and Santorum, Romney will win. Despite Santorum thinking most of Newt's supporters would automatically back him if Gingrich were no longer in the race, that is not true. Some would peel off and vote for Romney, which could possibly give him the delegates he needs to win the nomination.
The only way we can stop a Romney nomination now is for Newt to stay in the race.

The Tampa Bay Times editorial page is also urging Newt stay in the race, editorializing today that Newt has campaigned hard and the RNC Convention in August might be "hotter than we expected."
  