
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate seven individuals to serve in his Administration:
The President intends to nominate Rachel Brand, of Iowa, to be Assistant Attorney General (Legal Policy) at the Department of Justice. Ms. Brand currently serves as Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General in the Office of Legal Policy at the Department of Justice. She previously served as Law Clerk to Supreme Court Justice Anthony Kennedy. Earlier in her career, Ms. Brand served as Associate Counsel to the President. She earned her bachelor's degree from the University of Minnesota - Morris and her J.D. from Harvard Law School.
The President intends to nominate Suzanne C. DeFrancis, of Maryland, to be Assistant Secretary of Health and Human Services (Public Affairs). She previously served as Deputy Assistant to the President for Communications. Prior to this position, Ms. DeFrancis served as Senior Vice President and Director of Public Affairs at Porter Novelli. Earlier in her career she served as Deputy Director of Communications and Congressional Affairs at the Republican National Committee and as a speechwriter in the Nixon Administration. Ms. DeFrancis earned her bachelor's degree from the University of Colorado.
The President intends to nominate Alice S. Fisher, of Virginia, to be Assistant Attorney General (Criminal Division) at the Department of Justice. Ms. Fisher is currently a Partner with Latham & Watkins, LLP. She previously served as Deputy Assistant Attorney General in the Criminal Division of the Department of Justice. Earlier in her career, Ms. Fisher served as Deputy Special Counsel to the U.S. Senate Special Committee to Investigate Whitewater Development and Related Matters. She earned her bachelor's degree from Vanderbilt University and her J.D. from Catholic University of America.
The President intends to nominate Philip J. Perry, of Virginia, to be General Counsel at the Department of Homeland Security. Mr. Perry currently serves as a Partner with Latham & Watkins, LLP. Previously, he served as General Counsel in the Office of Management and Budget in the Executive Office of the President. Mr. Perry has also served as Acting Associate Attorney General and Principal Deputy Associate Attorney General at the Department of Justice. He earned his bachelor's degree from Colorado College and his J.D. from Cornell Law School.
The President intends to nominate Regina B. Schofield, of Virginia, to be Assistant Attorney General (Office of Justice Programs) at the Department of Justice. Ms. Schofield currently serves as Director of Intergovernmental Affairs and White House Liaison at the Department of Health and Human Services. She previously served as Manager of Government Relations at the United States Postal Service. Ms. Schofield earned her bachelor's degree from Mississippi College and her master's degree from Jackson State University.
The President intends to nominate the following individuals to be Members of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for National and Community Service:
Michael Dolan, of New York, for a five-year term expiring October 6, 2009
Robert M. Duncan, of Kentucky, for the remainder of a five-year term expiring June 10, 2009
  