
    President Carter and Prime Minister Fukuda met in Washington March 21 and 22 for a comprehensive and fruitful exchange of views on matters of mutual interest.
They expressed satisfaction that through the meetings, a relationship of free and candid dialogue and mutual trust was established between the new leaders of the governments of the United States and Japan. They agreed that the two Governments would maintain close Contact and consultation on all matters of common concern.
The President and the Prime Minister expressed their determination that the two countries, recognizing their respective responsibilities as industrialized democracies, endeavor to bring about a more peaceful and prosperous international community. To this end, they agreed that it is essential for the industrialized democracies to develop harmonized positions toward major economic issues through close consultation. They agreed further that it is important to sustain and develop dialogue and cooperation with countries whose political systems differ and which are in varying stages of economic development.
The President and the Prime Minister noted with satisfaction that the friendly and cooperative relations between the United States and Japan have continued to expand throughout diverse areas in the lives of the two peoples--not only in economic and political interchange, but in such varied fields as science and technology, medicine, education and culture. They looked forward to further collaboration on both private and governmental levels in all these areas. The President and the Prime Minister confirmed their common determination to further strengthen the partnership between their two countries, based on shared democratic values and a deep respect for individual freedom and fundamental human rights.
The President and the Prime Minister confirmed their common recognition that the interdependence of nations requires that the industrial countries manage their economies with due consideration for global economic needs, including those of the developing nations. They agreed that economic recovery of the industrialized democracies is indispensable to the stable growth of the international economy, and that nations with large-scale economies, including the United States and Japan, while seeking to avoid recrudescent inflation, should contribute to the stimulation of the world economy in a manner commensurate with their respective situations. They agreed that both Governments would continue to consult closely to this end.
They agreed that a liberal world trading system is essential for the sound development of the world economy, and in this connection expressed their determination to seek significant early progress in the Tokyo Round of the Multilateral Trade Negotiations and to bring those negotiations to a successful conclusion as soon as possible.
They reconfirmed the need for the nations concerned, including the United States and Japan, to address constructively the issues posed in the North-South relationship. They noted the continuing seriousness of the global energy problem and reconfirmed the importance of taking further steps to conserve energy and to develop new and alternative energy sources. They agreed on the necessity of intensified consumer country cooperation in the International Energy Agency and of continued promotion of cooperation between the oil-importing and oil-producing countries. They agreed that both Governments would continue their efforts to identify and promote positive solutions to these issues, and would endeavor to bring the Ministerial Meeting of the Conference on International Economic Cooperation to a successful conclusion.
The President and the Prime Minister welcomed the convening in London in May of the summit conference of the major industrial countries. They expressed their expectation that the conference, in a spirit of cooperation and solidarity, would serve as a forum for a constructive and creative exchange of views on problems confronting the world economy.
The President and the Prime. Minister reviewed the current international situation, and reaffirmed their recognition that the maintenance of a durable peace in the Asian-Pacific region is necessary for world peace and security.
They agreed that the close cooperative relationship between the United States and Japan, joined by bonds of friendship and trust, is indispensable to a stable international political structure in the Asian-Pacific region. They noted that the Treaty of Mutual Cooperation and Security between the United States and Japan has greatly contributed to the maintenance of peace and security in the Far East, and expressed their conviction that the firm maintenance of the Treaty serves the long-term interests of both countries.
The President reaffirmed that the United States as a Pacific nation, maintains a strong interest in the Asian-Pacific region, and will continue to play an active and constructive role there. He added that the United States will honor its security commitments and intends to retain a balanced and flexible military presence in the Western Pacific. The Prime Minister welcomed this affirmation by the United States and expressed his intention that Japan would further contribute to the stability and development of that region in various fields, including economic development.
Noting the activities of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, the President and the Prime Minister valued highly the efforts of its member countries to strengthen their self-reliance and the resilience of the region. They also reaffirmed that the two countries are prepared to continue cooperation and assistance in support of the efforts of the ASEAN countries toward regional cohesion and development.
Taking note of the situation in Indochina, they expressed the view that the peaceful and stable development of this area would be desirable for the future of Southeast Asia as a whole.
The President and the Prime Minister noted the continuing importance of the maintenance of peace and stability on the Korean Peninsula for the security of Japan and East Asia as a whole. They agreed on the desirability of continued efforts to reduce tension on the Korean Peninsula and strongly hoped for an early resumption of the dialogue between the South and the North. In connection with the intended withdrawal of United States ground forces in the Republic of Korea, the President stated that the United States, after consultation with the Republic of Korea and also with Japan, would proceed in ways which would not endanger the peace on the Peninsula. He affirmed that the United States remains committed to the defense of the Republic of Korea.
The President and the Prime Minister emphasized that, as a first step toward the most urgent task of nuclear disarmament, nuclear testing in all environments should be banned promptly. With respect to the international transfer of conventional weapons, they emphasized that measures to restrain such transfer should be considered by the international community as a matter of priority. In connection with the prevention of nuclear proliferation, the President welcomed the ratification by Japan last year of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons.
The President and the Prime Minister, recognizing the important role the United Nations is playing in the contemporary world, agreed that Japan and the United States should cooperate for the strengthening of that organization. In this connection, the President expressed his belief that Japan is fully qualified to become a permanent member of the Security Council of the United Nations, and stated American support for that objective. The Prime Minister expressed his appreciation for the President's statement.
The President and the Prime Minister reaffirmed that the use of nuclear energy for peaceful purposes should not lead to nuclear proliferation. In this connection, the President expressed his determination to develop United States policies which would support a more effective non-proliferation regime. The Prime Minister stated that for Japan, a party to the Non-Proliferation Treaty and a highly industrialized state heavily dependent on imported energy resources, it is essential to progress toward implementation of its program for the development and utilization of nuclear energy. The President agreed to give full consideration to Japan's position regarding its energy needs in connection with the formulation of a new nuclear policy by the United States. The President and the Prime Minister agreed on the necessity for close cooperation between the United States and Japan in developing a workable policy which will meet Japan's concerns and contribute to a more effective non-proliferation regime.
The President and the Prime Minister discussed matters concerning bilateral trade, fisheries, and civil aviation. They agreed on the importance of continued close consultation and cooperation between the two Governments to attain mutually acceptable and equitable solutions to problems pending between the United States and Japan.
The Prune Minister conveyed an invitation from the Government of Japan to President and Mrs. Carter to visit Japan. The President accepted this invitation with deep appreciation and stated that he looked forward to visiting Japan at a mutually convenient time.
  