
    Pool Reports by Zolan Kanno-Youngs, The New York Times Note: The reporter who produced these reports continued the numbering of March 9 reports. March 9 included four vice presidential pool reports.



Sent:
Reports:




March 10, 202210:04 CET

VP Travel Pool #5 rolling to Bilats 
Good morning,
It's 32 degrees in Warsaw and at 10:02 am the VP's motorcade is rolling to the Chancellery of the Prime Minister of Poland. Your pooler was not able to see the Vice President enter the motorcade.
Passing along the guidance sent out by the VP's office last night. Thanks so much.







At 10:15AM CEST, the Vice President will hold a bilateral meeting with the Prime Minister of Poland, Mateusz Morawiecki. There will be an expanded pool spray at the top of this meeting in the Cloak Room of the Chancellery of the Prime Minister of Poland.
At 11:10AM CEST, the Vice President will hold a bilateral meeting with the President of Poland, Andrzej Duda. There will be an expanded pool spray at the top of this meeting in Pompeian Hall at Belwelder Palace.
At 12:30PM CEST, the Vice President will participate in a press availability with President Andrzej Duda. This press availability is open to pre-credentialed media.
At 2:45PM CEST, the Vice President will participate in a roundtable with people displaced from Ukraine. There will be an expanded pool spray at the top of this roundtable at the American School of Warsaw.
At 5:00PM CEST, the Vice President will meet with staff from the U.S Embassies in Kyiv and Warsaw at the American School of Warsaw. This meeting will be closed press.
At 6:50PM CEST, the Vice President will hold a bilateral meeting with the Prime Minister of Canada, Justin Trudeau. There will be an expanded pool spray at the top of this meeting in Warsaw, Poland.
The Vice President will remain overnight in Warsaw, Poland.











March 10, 202210:48 CET

VP Travel Pool #6 Prime minister Bilat at Chancellery 
The Vice President's motorcade arrived at the chancellery 10:12 am. The pool was not able to see the VP enter.
At 10:14 am, the Vice President and prime minister Mateusz Morawiecki walked out into a main hall just in front of the entrance to the chancellery. The two leaders stood before a line of Polish and American flags as they removed their masks for a photo-op.
The VP ignored two shouted questions, including one from LAT's Noah Bierman, on whether she would make new commitments for refugees and another on whether the two leaders would discuss the recently rejected proposal to facilitate the transfer of Soviet-era fighter jets.
The pool was then led to the second floor, where we could see the prime minister showing the Vice President a plaque bearing the name of Witold Pilecki, the polish resistance fighter who went to Auschwitz to spy on the Nazis.
The VP was then led into the the Cloak Room at 10:18 am. Inside we found two chairs positioned at a table with two tea cups surrounding a bundle of flowers.
The prime minister started the meeting by saying he was "so happy we have such a strong alliance with the United States."
He added it was very important to strengthen the eastern flank of NATO.
He also thanked the VP for the "for your brave decision of being independent of Russian oil." He described the imports as "money for their war machine so to say."
Harris then said she was "standing here on the eastern flank of NATO to reaffirm our commitment to Poland and NATO Allies."
She commended the "extraordinary work" supporting refugees by "the people of Poland." The prime minister interrupted to emphasize the reference to "the people of Poland."
"We will discuss many issues today including the ongoing commitment" the US has for NATO, Harris said.
She also said they would ensure "Russia pays a serious and severe consequence."
The prime minister closed the opening spray by thanking the VP again for "the unity of the western world."
We were led back to the motorcade. We did not see the VP enter but we're rolling to Belwelder Palace at 10:34 AM. We arrived shortly before 10:40 am and are now waiting for the VPs arrival in a holding pen.



March 10, 202211:07 CET

VP Travel Pool #7 arrival Belwelder Palace 
The Vice President arrived at Belwelder Palace at 10:55 am. VP Harris exited her vehicle and briefly shook the hand of the Polish head of protocol (asking for a name).
She then shook the hand of President Andrzej Duda for a prolonged greeting. They shook hands for more than one minute.
The president then led the VP into the Belwelder Palace. It's 11:05 am and we're now waiting to be let into their bilat.



March 10, 202211:36 CET

VP Travel Pool #8 President Duda opening spray 
At 11:29 am, the pool was brought into the Pompeian Hall at Belwelder Palace for the opening spray of the Vice President's bilateral meeting with President Andrzej Duda of Poland.
The VP was seated on the right side of the table next to her chief of staff, national security advisor and other top officials.
Both leaders turned to the press and said nothing. Less than a minute after entering, the press was told to leave the room.
We're now holding for the press briefing.



March 10, 202212:12 CET

VP Travel Pool #9 Holding for Press Briefing 
I've asked officials here and I'm not sure if we're getting a 2 minute warning. So I wanted to let everyone know we are holding in the press briefing room waiting for the start of the press conference with the VP and President Duda.
Watch it here:
https://www.whitehouse.gov/live/



March 10, 202212:54 CET

VP Travel Pool #10 2 min warning on briefing 
Press briefing is about to start



March 10, 202213:52 CET

VP Travel Pool #11 min press briefing over 
The press conference ended at 1:42 PM. We'reloaded into the vans at 1:46 PM.
The VP and Polish prime minister were asked about the relationship between the two countries, whether the US should do more to assist refugees and the conflict over Soviet-era fighter jets. The VP said there should be "absolutely be an" investigation into war crimes by Russia.
Just before President Duda answered a question of why Poland moved unilaterally to propose moving fighter jets to Ukraine, a staffer passed him a note.
We're rolling to American School of Warsaw.



March 10, 202214:18 CET

VP Travel Pool #12 arrival for refugee roundtable 
The pool arrived at 2:07 PM at the American School of Warsaw. Your pooler was not able to see the VP arrive. We're now holding in a classroom for the start of the roundtable.



March 10, 202215:25 CET

VP Travel Pool #13 roundtable with displaced people 
The pool was brought into a classroom the American School of Warsaw at roughly 2:50.
The VP was seated at the top of a horseshoe-shaped arrangement of desks. Five people sat on each side of the roundtable, including seven displaced people from Ukraine, two government officials and a translator.
The VP began the event by thanking the participants for "your willingness, your courage and your time to have this important conversation."
Harris said at least 1.4 million people have fled Ukraine. The Vice President told the room she and President Duda discussed the "commitment the United States has partnering with Poland and our other allies to support the individuals and families that have had to flee Ukraine."
"The conversation we will have this afternoon will help inform the president of the United States and the American people about what you have experienced so we can best support you and your family," she said.
"You've been through so much. And the people at this table represent well over a million people," she said.
"You are not alone," Ms. Harris said. "You are not alone. People around the world are watching. People around the world and expressing their support and asking how they can help."
Some participants took notes as Harris spoke. Multiple red American School of Warsaw banners were positioned behind the table, stating "Welcome." An American, Ukrainian and Polish flag were placed behind Harris.
Pool was escorted out at 2:55 PM. We're holding in another classroom.



March 10, 202216:57 CET

VP Travel Pool #14 rolling back to hotel// background from WH 
The pool was loaded into the motorcade at 4:40 PM. I was not able to see the VP entering the motorcade.
We're rolling back to the Marriott at 4:55 PM.
Next event on the schedule is the bilateral with Trudeau tentatively scheduled for 6:50 PM.
I'm also sending along the following background from a WH official on the VP's roundtable with displaced people from Ukraine—>
Today the Vice President participated in a roundtable with people displaced from Ukraine. The Vice President listened to their stories, and told the participants she will make sure their voices are heard.
During the roundtable, the Vice President met with 7 people who have fled Russian aggression from Ukraine, including a Ukrainian advocate for persons with disabilities, a Moroccan university student, a professional film producer from Odessa, a Senegalese community leader and teacher, a LGBTQIA+ rights activist from Kyiv, and a Ukrainian energy expert and her young adult daughter. She was also joined by Kristina Kvien, Chargé d'affaires of the U.S Embassy Kyiv. The conversation was moderated by Renee Lariviere, Regional Refugee Coordinator, U.S. Embassy Kyiv.



March 10, 202219:15 CET

VP Travel Pool #15 Trudeau Pool Spray 
The pool was brought into a reserved space in the Marriot for the pool spray with Vice President Harris and Prime Minister Justin Trudeau of Canada at 6:48 PM.
Ms. Harris, seated to the left of Mr. Trudeau, was flanked by her national security advisor, chief of staff and other top officials.
Ms. Harris said both nations were there to "reaffirm the strength of the NATO alliance."
Ms. Harris said the two would "discuss what we in particular can do to strengthen our assistance, security assistance, humanitarian assistance" to the Ukrainian people.
"I know we stand in solidarity in terms of our outrage against this war," Ms. Harris said.
Mr. Trudeau then commended the Biden administration for "the kind of alignment, the kind of strength and unity we've shown."
"I think it's really made a difference," Mr. Trudeau said.
"First of all, Vladimir Putin totally underestimated the strength and resolve of the Ukrainian people. But he also underestimated the strength and resolve of democracy to stand up in support of Ukraine," Mr. Trudeau said.
"From crippling sanctions against Putin and his top supporters to unprecedented humanitarian aide to security and military support for Ukrainians fighting not just for Ukraine but for all of us, we stand shoulder to shoulder," Mr. Trudeau said.
The two leaders ignored shouted questions over whether Russia's use of a chemical weapon would be a red line or what specific actions the United States would take to provide humanitarian assistance to the region.
The spray lasted roughly five minutes.



March 10, 202221:01 CET

VP Travel Pool #16 Background briefing 
Hello,
A senior administration official provided the pool with a roughly 30 minute background briefing at about 8 PM.
The official said the main goal of the trip was to express solidarity with Poland and discuss next steps on the joint effort to deter the Russian invasion of Ukraine.
The official noted that in addition to meeting with the prime minister and president of Poland, the vice president also held a roundtable with refugees and met with embassy staff who were displaced from Kyiv.
The VP began discussing Russian aggression against Ukraine with the French during her trip to Paris in November. She called five prime ministers in this region last week to prepare for this trip.
On the VP's earlier comment that Russia should be investigated for war crimes, the official claimed it was in line with what the administration has said for some time: that deliberate targeting of civilians would be defined as a war crime and should be looked into. He said she was referring to the UN commission for inquiry. The official said the administration is gathering information and will share with whoever is appropriate.
Asked if the White House was considering sanctions on Russia's state owned atomic energy company and the administration has consulted with the nuclear power energy on the potential impact, the official declined to preview further actions.
Asked whether the ban on Russian oil was permanent or temporary, the official said the U.S. was nowhere near that phase because Russia continues to invade Ukraine.
The official said the VP did address the rejected proposal to transfer righter jets during her meeting with the Pols. The VP echoed the U.S. is against that proposal and tried to direct the conversation to additional ways the Ukrainians can defend themselves.
The official said there's still additional sanctions in store for Russia.
The VP's team was not in contact with former VP Pence as he traveled in the region, the official said.
The official said the VP was coordinating effectively with Secretary of State Antony Blinken during the trip.
The official said the US is taking seriously the prospect Russia could use chemical weapons against Ukraine.
The official said he had nothing to share on whether the administration would implement visa waivers or designate an allocation specifically to welcome Ukrainian refugees.




  