
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate nine individuals, his intention to designate five individuals, and intention to appoint four individuals to serve in his administration:
The President intends to nominate Ralph Frank of Washington, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Croatia. A career member of the Senior Foreign Service, Ambassador Frank currently serves as the Director of the Office of Career Development and Assignments, in the Department of State's Bureau of Human Resources. Prior to this assignment, he served as Ambassador to the Kingdom of Nepal. Earlier in his career, he worked as a Deputy Assistant Secretary in the Bureau of Personnel, the Bureau of Administration and the Bureau of Diplomatic Security. His previous overseas assignments include service as Administrative Counselor in Katmandu and Warsaw, Administrative Officer in Medan and Assistant General Services Officer in Belgrade. Ambassador Frank earned both his bachelor's degree and his master's degree from the University of Washington.
The President intends to nominate William M. Bellamy of California, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Kenya. A career member of the Senior Foreign Service, Mr. Bellamy currently serves at the Department of State as the Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary in the Bureau of African Affairs. Previous assignments overseas include service as Deputy Chief of Mission in Canberra, Political Officer in Paris, and Chief of the Political Section in Pretoria. He has also served in Washington as the Political Officer in the Office of Southern African Affairs. Mr. Bellamy is a graduate of Occidental College.
The President intends to nominate Raul David Bejarano of California, to be the United States Marshal for the Southern District of California, for a four-year term. Mr. Bejarano currently serves as the Chief of Police of the San Diego Police Department. As Chief, he is responsible for all department operations and policies, and he supervises 2,130 sworn officers and 680 civilians. Prior to his career in law enforcement, Mr. Bejarano served in the United States Marine Corps. He is a graduate of National University.
The President intends to nominate the following individuals to be Members of the Board of Directors of the Federal Agricultural Mortgage Corporation:
Julia Bartling of South Dakota (Farming)
Lowell Junkins of Iowa (Public)
Glen Klippenstein of Missouri (Ranching)
The President intends to nominate Mary Lucille Jordan of Maryland, to be Commissioner of the Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission for a six-year term expiring August 30, 2008.
The President intends to nominate Elizabeth Courtney of Louisiana, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for Public Broadcasting for the remainder of a six-year term expiring January 31, 2004.
The President intends to nominate John W. Leslie of Connecticut, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the African Development Foundation for the remainder of a six-year term expiring September 22, 2007.
The President intends to designate Gene Hickok of Pennsylvania, to be Acting Assistant Secretary for Elementary and Secondary Education at the Department of Education. Dr. Hickok currently serves as the Under Secretary of Education. He is a graduate of Hampden-Sydney College and earned his master's degree and Ph.D. from the University of Virginia.
The President intends to designate the following individuals to be Members of the Intelligence Oversight Board:
David E. Jeremiah of Virginia
Arnold Kanter of Virginia.
James C. Langdon, Jr. of the District of Columbia
Brent Scowcroft of Maryland, and designate Chairman
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the Board of Directors of the Vietnam Education Foundation:
Frank Jao of California, for the remainder of a three-year term expiring April 17, 2006
Marilyn Castor Machon Pattillo of Texas, for the remainder of a three-year term expiring April 17, 2006
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the Board of Visitors to the United States Military Academy:
Rear Admiral Marsha Johnson Evans, USN (Ret.) of Virginia, for a three-year term expiring December 30, 2005.
General Samuel K. Lessey, Jr. of New Hampshire, for a three-year term expiring December 30, 2005
  