
    Hulking Haul Comes as Campaign Launches TV Buys in Nine More States
WASHINGTON – Sen. Bernie Sanders' presidential campaign on Sunday announced it raised $46.5 million in February from more than 2.2 million donations, including contributions from more than 350,000 people who donated to the campaign for the first time. The campaign also announced that it will make television ad buys in nine states with primary contests on March 10th and March 17th.
"The senator's multigenerational, multiracial working class coalition keeps fueling his campaign for transformational change a few bucks at a time," Sanders' Campaign Manager Faiz Shakir said. "We're especially proud that of the more than 2 million donations we received this month, over 1.4 million were from voters in states that vote on Super Tuesday."
Bernie 2020 has now surpassed the total number of individual contributions received by Sanders' 2016 effort, topping 8.7 million donations since February 2019. Sanders raised $4.5 million on the final day of the month, making it the best fundraising day since the launch of the campaign.
The hulking February haul comes as Sanders' announces television buys in Idaho, Michigan, Mississippi, Missouri and Washington, which hold contests on March 10th, and Arizona, Florida, Illinois and Ohio, which hold contests on March 17th. The campaign is currently on the air in 12 out of the 14 states voting on March 3rd.
"Teacher" was the most common occupation of Sanders' February donors, the five most common employers were Amazon, Starbucks, Walmart, the United States Postal Service and Target, and the average donation was $21.
Since the campaign's February 2019 launch, Sanders has raised more than $167 million from over 8.7 million individual donations with an average contribution of $19. More than 99.9 percent of donors have not maxed out and can give again. To date, over 1.9 million people have donated to the campaign. The total for the campaign does not include an additional $12.7 million in transfers all made in 2019 from Sanders' other federal accounts.
  