
    Today, a group of 23 African American rural grassroots leaders from across the country are announcing they are endorsing Hillary Clinton for President. Collectively, the leaders will help mobilize voters and help the campaign develop policies that best serve the needs of rural African American communities.
The leaders represent Alabama, Arkansas, Delaware, Florida, Georgia, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maryland, Mississippi, Missouri, North Carolina, Ohio, Oklahoma, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas and Virginia where ninety-five percent of the country's African American farmers are based.
Each leader will help advise the campaign on rural and agriculture issues impacting African American communities. The leaders will also serve as rural and agricultural families' voices throughout the campaign, educate communities on campaign policies and programs, help with get-out-the-vote efforts and determine outreach and education needs.
Despite their critical role in our economy, too many rural communities are not sharing in our nation's economic gains, that's why Secretary Clinton has a plan to strengthen rural America for the next generation.
"Too often, programs designed to address rural agriculture issues in America do not always include the concerns of the black communities in these areas. While there have been major improvements and wealth creation in most rural and agricultural areas under President Obama, black wealth in rural areas still lags significantly behind the national average. I believe that Hillary Clinton understands the issues of our communities and will work to break down the barriers to success for black rural America when she is President, "said Co-Chair Lloyd E. Wright, a farmer and former director of civil rights at USDA.
"I am proud to stand with Hillary Clinton today. Hillary recognizes that rural communities help make our country great and has a plan to continue to strengthen them for the next generation. I am ready to assist her campaign on all levels of engagement to make sure rural black families can get ahead and stay ahead," said Frank Taylor, Executive Director of Winston County Self-Help Cooperative.
"Rural communities are the backbone of our country. Together, we will engage countless black rural families in the "Hillary for America" campaign and continue the progress made under President Obama in providing equal access to equal opportunity. Secretary Clinton's efforts to engage rural black communities reflect an inclusive campaign that will ensure her success both in the Democratic primaries and in November," said Alma Cobb Hobbs, former Dean of Agriculture at Virginia State University.
The list of 23 African American Grassroots Leaders endorsing Secretary Clinton:

Lloyd Wright, WBN Group Co-Chair, Maryland
Bob Nash, WBN Group Co-Chair, Arkansas
Shirley Watkins-Bowden, WBN Group Co-Chair, Maryland
Lawrence Lucas, WBN Group Member, Maryland
James A. Westbrooks, WBN Group Member, Maryland
Robert Binion, Alabama
Abraham Carpenter, Arkansas
Jon Hall, Delaware
Thaddeus Hamilton, Florida
Brenda Holt,  Florida
Shirley Miller Sherrod, Georgia
James Ford, Georgia
Charles Adams Louisiana
Obie Ashford, Maryland
Mary Hill, Mississippi
Frank Taylor, Mississippi
Dr. Alma Cobb Hobbs, North Carolina
Willard Tillman, Oklahoma
Hezekiah Gibson, South Carolina
Fred D. Johnson, Tennessee
Kimberly Marie Ratcliff, Texas
Savanah E. Williams, Virginia
Shirley Kennedy, Virginia

  