
    
  Cruz: "The millennial generation is the largest voting block in America, and must not be ignored."

HOUSTON, Texas – Presidential candidate Ted Cruz today announced the expansion of his Millennials for Cruz Coalition National and State level leadership at a College Republicans National Committee event in National Harbor, Maryland. New National Co-Chairs include Katie Kieffer, Joseph Semprevivo, and Juliette Turner. Cruz also announced the appointment of Northeast Regional Director Austin O' Boyle, Western Regional Director Branton Nestor, and State Directors in 32 states. These new additions join three National Co-Chairs previously announced, Alessandra Gennarelli, Elliott Kelley, and Neal Mehrotra who chair over 5,276 Millennials for Cruz members across the U.S.
"I am inspired and encouraged to have so many young men and women rise up to advocate for this campaign across the country," Cruz said. "The millennial generation is the largest voting block in America, and must not be ignored. College students and young adults are waking up to the effect Washington will have on their future. Together we will say enough is enough. Enough with spending the United States into trillions of dollars of debt, and enough with job stagnation."

Katie Kieffer is an entrepreneur, author, commentator, public speaker, and weekly national columnist. Random House recently published her first book titled Let Me Be Clear: Barack Obama's War on Millennials and One Woman's Case for Hope. Katie chaired a National NAIOP Young Professionals Forum of rising stars in commercial real estate. She was also named one of Twin Cities' 25 Youngest Professionals.
Joseph Semprevivio is the CEO and President of his small business, Joseph's Lite Cookies. Joseph is a member of Pi Kappa Alpha Fraternity and has been involved in mobilizing campuses for campaigns such as Florida Governor Rick Scott, New Mexico Governor Susana Martinez, and Arizona Governor Doug Ducey. Joseph was a College Republican President from 1995 to 1997 with over 450 members. He also served as a personal intern for President Reagan and as an assistant to former First Lady Nancy Reagan in 1997.
Juliette Turner is a three-time published author with HarperCollins Zondervan. Publishing Our Constitution Rocks in 2012 and Our Presidents Rock in 2014, her latest book, a novel entitled That's Not Hay in My Hair, is due to be released February 2016. To date, Juliette has spoken to 50+ schools and events in ten different states about the nonpartisan relevancy of the United States Constitution. A political commentator for The Washington Times, she aims to encourage her generation to participate in political discussions. When she isn't writing or on the speaking circuit, Juliette can be found on her ranch with her mother, actress and author Janine Turner.
Austin O' Boyle is a student at the University of Rhode Island. Austin has served as the Southern New England Outreach Coordinator for Students for Rand, Chief Political Director for Rhode Island Assembly Candidate Luis Vargas, Political Strategist for Rhode Island Senate Candidate Anthony Spiratos, Events Coordinator for Congressional Candidate Russel Taub, and the Rhode Island State Chair for Young Americans for Liberty.
Branton Nestor is currently serving as the Cruz campaign's Regional Co-Chair for Orange County. Branton has prior experience interning for both the Republican Party of Orange County and Young America's Foundation, and he also played an active role on his college campus as the founder and chairman of Westmont College's Young Americans for Freedom.
Millennials for Cruz has executed multiple campus events such as a Voter Registration Day before the Iowa Caucus, a National Debt Clock Day before Super Tuesday to raise awareness of Cruz's plan to fix the national debt, and a phone-from-home competition on campuses before Super Tuesday.
Millennials for Cruz has an unrivalled youth organization in the 2016 GOP Presidential contest.
State Directors
Abigail Allen, MI
Andrew Ireland, IN
Ashley Estebo, CA
Austin Mathis, GA
Branson White, AR
Chloe Castay, FL
Dan Savickas, D.C.
Eli Fine, MA
Elliott Kelley, SC
Eric Heigis, D.C.
Ethan Cooper, NY
Hilary Solet, LA
Holly Torres, OH
Jeffrey Vinje, OR
Jerimiah Cote, MO
Joseph Alp, ME
Josh Kauder, NH
Julie Azure, OK
Karina Rapoza, RI
Kelvey Vander Hart, IA
Kerrick Kuder, KS
Lauren Creekmore, VA
Luke Helms, AR
Nathan Howe, IL
Nick Yanakas, MD
Paul Draper, NJ
Rebecca Galfano, TN
Riley Walters, TN
Robert Crocker, AL
Ryan Sturgis, NE
Shialee Grooman, AZ
Stalder Talley, OK
Stephen Wood, NV
Whitney Mechling, TX
Wyly Walker, NC
Zachary Zupan, VT
  