
    
  Ad condemns Romney top aide's cavalier statement that after election, campaign promises face quick, easy nullification—and games vs. voters commence

LAKE JACKSON, Texas — 2012 Republican Presidential candidate Ron Paul released today an online ad titled 'Etch A Sketch' to condemn a Mitt Romney top aide's televised assertion that campaign promises are meaningless, and to further present Paul as the principled choice for the Republican nomination.
Beginning today 'Etch A Sketch' will be pushed to conservative email lists, and promoted on blogs and websites where conservative activists and opinion leaders congregate.
'Etch A Sketch' is being launched in reaction to controversial comments made by Mitt Romney's strategist Eric Fehrnstrom. The top aide, in a Freudian slip, said that after the general election, "everything changes, it's almost like an 'Etch A Sketch'…you can kind of shake it up and restart all over again." The Paul ad argues that in the context of $15 trillion in federal government debt, 12 million Americans jobless, and a country perpetually at war there is zero justification for treating the election as something to be toyed with. 'Etch A Sketch' then mocks fake conservative Rick Santorum and serial hypocrite Newt Gingrich and presents Ron Paul as the one authentic—and consistent—Republican candidate running for the nomination.
In addition to calling Paul the sole candidate with a consistent track record of conservatism, the ad mentions the 12-term Congressman from Texas's path-breaking 'Plan to Restore America' that will jump-start his presidency, not a scheme to reverse the platform of constitutionally-limited government that Paul directly told to thousands of voters at town hall meetings and rallies.
"Conservatives and Constitutionalists have long been concerned about Mitt Romney's track record of position changes and flip-flops, and his top adviser's slip of the tongue only reinforces this suspicion," said Ron Paul 2012 National Campaign Chairman Jesse Benton. "It is equally off-putting to see Santorum and Gingrich react like carnival barkers, not the statesmen America sorely needs. But, none of this is surprising," added Mr. Benton, referring to the many displays of feigned outrage by Messrs. Santorum and Gingrich.
"While the other candidates and the political chattering class are obsessed with horse-race politics and scoring public relations points, Dr. Paul stands alone in offering real solutions to difficult problems. He is the only candidate with a 'Plan to Restore America' that cuts real spending and balances the budget in one term, ends the foreign wars and nation-building, cuts taxes and regulations to create jobs, and reigns in the Federal Reserve," added Mr. Benton.
"And, only Dr. Paul has the track record of consistent, principled leadership Americans can trust. While the other candidates are playing games, Dr. Paul is fighting to Restore America Now," he concluded.
To view the ad 'Etch A Sketch' online, please click here.
  