
    Let me welcome all of you from Broward County here in the Rose Garden. I have had two wonderful trips down to Florida in the last month. I was in Broward County last Saturday. There was a little dew, but the skies opened up and the sun came out, and I can say that it was a very delightful, wonderful day.
I had the good fortune to visit Fort Lauderdale, Deer field Beach, Hillsboro [Highland] Beach, and Coral Springs, along with some 10 other communities from West Palm south. I have to think about the geography down there, but it was a delightful Saturday and Sunday.
We are extremely happy to have you from Broward County up here to look at the White House, to visit the Capitol. I hope you will have an opportunity to see the Supreme Court. This gives all of you who are so interested in Bicentennial matters a wonderful exposure to what I think is the finest government that man has ever put together, predicated on a constitution that is unbelievable when you think that some 200 years ago 50-some individuals labored from May until September and gave to us this document that protects us individually, and has given this country an opportunity to move ahead so successfully in the span of two centuries.
There is a quote from former President Eisenhower that I think is extremely appropriate in the circumstances we face today. The quote from Ike is that, "America is not good because it is great, but America is great because it is good."
By any standards, over a span of some two centuries, where we have gone from 13 poor, struggling colonies of about 3 million people to a nation of 50 States and 215 million Americans, it is a history that has not been matched by any other country in the history of the world.
We should be proud of it. Our forefathers have done a superb job. We have the responsibility now to do as well as they did for us. I am confident that the generations that we represent will do a great job for the generations that we see in these younger people.
I am confident--with the tools we have, both in government, the tools that we have in our free enterprise system, but more importantly, the people--that America can look to a greater and greater future in the generations ahead.
I hope you enjoy your trip, not only here in 'Washington but likewise have an opportunity to visit Philadelphia, Valley Forge, and other very, very historic sites and places in America's tremendous history.
I do want to congratulate the Broward County Minutemen and their spouses and all of their wonderful children. It is good to see you all.
  