
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
March 5
In the morning, the President and Hillary and Chelsea Clinton went to Camp David, MD, for the weekend.
March 6
In the evening, the President and Hillary and Chelsea Clinton returned from Camp David, MD.
March 7
The President announced the appointment of Joseph H. Flom as Chair of the Board of Trustees of the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars.
March 8
The President announced his intention to nominate Victor Zonana as Assistant General Counsel of the Treasury. In this position, he will serve as Chief Counsel for the Internal Revenue Service.
March 9
The President announced his intention to nominate Raymond G. Romero as the Assistant Secretary for Aviation and International Affairs for the Department of Transportation.
The White House announced the President will meet with Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin of Israel at the White House on March 16.
March 10
In the morning, the President traveled to New York City. In the afternoon, he met with officers at the 61st Precinct in Brooklyn. He then met with Mayor Rudolph Giuliani of New York at the Sheraton New York.
In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC.
The White House announced the President's policy on the sale of space-based remote sensing systems and data products.
March 11
The President announced his intention to nominate Cynthia A. Metzler to be Assistant Secretary of Labor for Administration and Management.
The President declared a major disaster exists in Virginia and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by flooding and a severe winter ice storm from February 8 to 12.
The President declared a major disaster exists in Pennsylvania and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by a series of winter storms from January 4 to February 25.
  