
    "While traditional transportation needs like roads, bridges, mass transit, railroads, waterways and airports are a major part of the proposal, the Trump plan also includes support for broadband internet, water and power systems, public lands, and veterans hospitals[.]"
Trump's infrastructure plan brings needed attention for improvements
By Gov. Mary Fallin and Sec. Mike Patterson
Tulsa World
March 2, 2018
...
As governor and as Oklahoma's secretary of transportation, we support the Trump administration's infrastructure proposal for starting the dialogue about the need for these improvements.
The proposal calls for $200 billion in federal spending nationwide to help generate at least $1.5 trillion in new investment from state, local and private sources.
...
While traditional transportation needs like roads, bridges, mass transit, railroads, waterways and airports are a major part of the proposal, the Trump plan also includes support for broadband internet, water and power systems, public lands, and veterans hospitals, which are valuable pieces of the nation's infrastructure system used by Oklahomans every day.
One highlight of the Trump administration's plan that will benefit states like Oklahoma is that 25 percent of the direct federal funding, about $50 billion, will be set aside for rural projects in cities and towns with a population of 50,000 or less. This will give our state a better opportunity to prioritize rural communities' needs, and make the state eligible to compete for federal grants to help fund major projects.
...
The proposal also includes major regulatory reforms to help expedite the project review and permitting process, which will help get projects approved and under construction much quicker.
...
There is a bipartisan consensus that something must be done to address our nation's infrastructure system, and that it must start with a strong commitment from the federal government. We commend the Trump administration for its efforts to reinvest in the nation's infrastructure so that it will continue to meet the demands of our country's 21st century trade and commerce.
Read the full op-ed here.
  