
    Pool Reports by Christian Datoc, Washington Examiner 



Sent:
Reports:




March 7, 202211:16

VP pool report #1 — Gathering for transportation announcement 
Good morning on a beautiful Monday at the White House.
Pool is gathering ahead of Vice President Harris' remarks announcing new clean energy transportation initiatives, currently scheduled to begin at 11:35am ET.
VP's full speech can be streamed here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cvjRHpApiys
As always, feel free to reach out to me directly with any questions.



March 7, 202211:25

VP pool report #2 — in South Court 
Pool entered the auditorium just after 11:20am. The stage is standard for these events — "ACCELERATING CLEAN TRANSPORTATION" language emblazoned on the set walls, accompanied by bus and public transit graphics
Pool will end a photo in a later report. More to follow...



March 7, 202211:35

VP pool report #3 — event background 
Passing along from VP's office
On Background From White House Official:
Today, during an event at the White House at 11:30 AM EST, Vice President Kamala Harris will announce major federal actions that will expand clean public transit and school buses, reduce emissions from dirty diesel trucks, and create good-paying jobs. Joining the Vice President and also delivering remarks will be Secretary of the Department of Transportation Pete Buttigieg, Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency Michael Regan, Administrator of the Federal Transit Administration Nuria Fernandez, and Marc Saint-Firmin, an electric bus driver with the Washington D.C. Circulator.
Specifically, the Vice President will announce that, thanks to investments in the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law and American Rescue Plan, as well as a new proposed rule that would set heavy-duty vehicle emissions standards, the Biden-Harris Administration is strengthening public transit that connects people to their jobs and loved ones, freight trucks and ports that move goods through the American economy, and the iconic American yellow buses that bring children safely to school—all while reducing air pollution that has long overburdened low-income communities and communities of color, and creating good-paying, union jobs. (See embargoed Fact Sheet, below).
Since taking office, the Vice President has highlighted the importance of transitioning to zero-emission vehicles, emphasizing the benefits of good jobs, cleaner air, and reduced costs. Last year, the Vice President visited an electric school bus manufacturer in High Point, North Carolina, met with public transit districts working to electrify their fleets in Cincinnati, Ohio, and Charlotte, North Carolina, and visited with an electric semi-truck driver in New York City. In December, Vice President Harris announced the Biden-Harris Administration’s Electric Vehicle Charging Action Plan that fast tracks Bipartisan Infrastructure Law investments to create a national network of electric vehicle chargers.
The Vice President worked with President Biden to help shape and pass the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law. As a Senator, Vice President Harris led the Clean School Bus Act, the first bill to focus exclusively on zero emission school buses. This legislation served as a model for the stand-alone school bus program in the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law. In the Senate, she also led on several pieces of legislation to address the climate crisis and advance environmental justice - including the Wildfire Defense Act, the Water for Tomorrow Act, the Water Justice Act, and the Environmental Justice for All Act, which helped shape key provisions of the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law.



March 7, 202211:38

VP pool report #4 — event begins 
VP and Transportation Secretary Pete Buttigieg and others walked onstage at 11:37 am. A reminder that you can stream the remarks here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cvjRHpApiys



March 7, 202211:52

VP pool report #5 — MOCs in attendance 
Passing along from VP's office...
Members of Congress in attendance of todays event:
Representative Frank PalloneRepresentative Paul TonkoRepresentative Pramila JayapalRepresentative Jahana HayesRepresentative Tony Cardenas




  