
    The following list contains releases of the Office of the Press Secretary that are neither printed as items nor covered by entries in the Digest of Other White House Announcements.
Released May 1
Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Mike McCurry
Released May 2
Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Mike McCurry
Transcript of a press briefing by Lt. Gen. Claude Kicklighter, USA (Ret.); Brig. Gen. Jack Mountcastle, USA; Col. John Sullivan, USA; Lt. Gen. Orwin Talbott, USA (Ret.); Mr. Woodrow Crockett and Mr. Ken Bargmann on the 50th anniversary of V-E Day
Transcript of a press briefing by Secretary of Defense William Perry; Attorney General Janet Reno; Gen. John Sheehan, USA, Commander in Chief of the U.S. Atlantic Command; and Under Secretary of State for Political Affairs Peter Tarnoff on the Oklahoma City bombing and normalization of Cuban migration
Statement by Press Secretary Mike McCurry announcing the formation of a high-level delegation to the Third African-American Summit in Dakar, Senegal, May 1-5
Statement by Press Secretary Mike McCurry on the President's transmittal to Congress of 1996 budget amendments to implement the second stage of the National Performance Review
Announcement on the President's request for emergency funds for Oklahoma City
Released May 3
Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Mike McCurry
Transcript of a press briefing by Health and Human Services Secretary Donna Shalala, Council of Economic Advisers Chair Laura Tyson, Health Care Financing Administrator Bruce Vladeck, and Inspector General June Gibbs Brown on the President's initiative on health care reform and deficit reduction
Statement by Press Secretary Mike McCurry on the selection of H. Martin Lancaster as Special Adviser to the President and U.S. Arms Control and Disarmament Agency Director on the Chemical Weapons Convention
Fact sheet on the proposed "Immigration Enforcement Improvements Act of 1995"
Released May 4
Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Mike McCurry
Transcript of a press briefing by Secretary of State Warren Christopher, Secretary of Defense William Perry, and Treasury Secretary Robert Rubin on the President's visit to Europe to celebrate the 50th anniversary of V-E Day
Statement by Press Secretary Mike McCurry on the President's meeting with Prime Minister Vaclav Klaus of the Czech Republic
Announcement of nomination for two U.S. District Judges
  