
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate five individuals and designate two individuals to serve in his Administration:
The President intends to nominate James L. Caswell, of Idaho, to be Director of the Bureau of Land Management at the Department of the Interior. Mr. Caswell currently serves as Administrator of the Office of Species Conservation for the State of Idaho. Prior to this, he served as Forest Supervisor of Clearwater National Forest. Earlier in his career, he served as Acting Deputy Regional Forester for the Northern Region of the United States Forest Service. Mr. Caswell received his bachelor's degree from Michigan State University.
The President intends to nominate William J. Garvelink, of Michigan, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Mr. Garvelink, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, currently serves as Principal Deputy Assistant Administrator of the Bureau of Democracy, Conflict and Humanitarian Assistance at the United States Agency for International Development. Prior to this, he served as Mission Director for Eritrea at the United States Agency for International Development. Earlier in his career, he served as Deputy Director of the Office of Foreign Disaster Assistance at the United States Agency for International Development. Mr. Garvelink received his bachelor's degree from Calvin College and his master's degree from the University of Minnesota.
The President intends to nominate J. Christian Kennedy, of Indiana, to be accorded the Rank of Ambassador during his tenure as Special Envoy for Holocaust Issues. Mr. Kennedy, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, currently serves as Special Envoy for Holocaust Issues. Prior to this, he served as Senior Advisor of the Career Development Program in the Bureau of Human Resources at the Department of State. Earlier in his career, he served as Minister-Counselor for Political Affairs in Mexico City. Mr. Kennedy received his bachelor's degree from the University of Chicago.
The President intends to nominate Roderick W. Moore, of Rhode Island, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Montenegro. Mr. Moore, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, currently serves as Deputy Chief of Mission at the United States Embassy in Serbia. Prior to this, he served as Deputy Chief of Mission at the United States Embassy in Bulgaria. Earlier in his career, he served as a State Department Fellow and taught at the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts University. Mr. Moore received his bachelor's degree and master's degree from Brown University.
The President intends to nominate Ronald Jay Tenpas, of Maryland, to be Assistant Attorney General (Environment and Natural Resources Division) at the Department of Justice, and to designate him Acting. Mr. Tenpas currently serves as Associate Deputy Attorney General at the Department of Justice. Prior to this, he served as United States Attorney for the Southern District of Illinois. Earlier in his career, he served as Branch Chief and Deputy Criminal Chief and Assistant United States Attorney in the United States Attorney's Office of the District of Maryland. Mr. Tenpas received his bachelor's degrees from Michigan State University and Oxford University and his JD from the University of Virginia.
The President intends to designate Senator Ted Stevens, of Alaska, to be Personal Representative of the President of the United States at the 47th International Paris Air Show.
  