
    Declaration on U.S.-Kazakhstan Relations
At the conclusion of this important meeting, we -- the President of the United States and the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan -- have resolved to develop friendly, cooperative relations between our countries and peoples, and to work together to strengthen international peace and stability.
Kazakhstan and the United States favor an early ratification and implementation of the START Treaty as an important guarantor of maintaining global stability. Reaffirming its commitment to peace and security, Kazakhstan shall, at the earliest possible time, accede to the Treaty on the Non-proliferation of Nuclear Weapons as a non-nuclear state, while preserving the right of control over the non-use and reductions of the nuclear weapons temporarily deployed on its territory. Kazakhstan guarantees to carry out the elimination of all types of nuclear weapons, including strategic offensive arms, within the seven-year period provided for in the START Treaty. The United States welcomes these steps and shall take necessary measures to assist Kazakhstan in this matter. Kazakhstan and the United States agree on the need to establish effective national control over non-proliferation of the weapons of mass destruction and associated technologies to third countries.
The United States and Kazakhstan will work to strengthen international security on the basis of lower and more stable levels of armaments among all nations. We commit to uphold shared international principles, especially democracy, respect for borders and territorial integrity, and peaceful resolution of disputes. Together we will promote respect for international law and the principles enshrined in the Helsinki Final Act, the Charter of Paris, other important documents of the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe, and the United Nations Charter. The United States welcomes Kazakhstan's efforts to establish equal and mutually beneficial relations with Russia and the states of Central Asia as well as with other states in accordance with these principles. Toward this end, the United States welcomes Kazakhstan's membership in multilateral institutions like the United Nations, the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe, the North Atlantic Cooperation Council, the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank, and its commitment to values and accepted norms of behavior in the world. We agree that our countries should maintain a regular bilateral dialogue on questions of peace and stability that are of interest to both states.
We believe that the basis for the development of a lasting partnership between our states must be a shared commitment to promote the values of democracy, free markets, and world peace. In this regard, the United States supports Kazakhstan's commitment to pursue far-reaching political and economic reform. The United States welcomes Kazakhstan's desire to build its independence in full accordance with the principles of a free and democratic society, including free elections, pluralism and tolerance, freedom of emigration, the rule of law, and respect for human rights, including equal rights for all individuals belonging to ethnic or religious minorities. The United States Government, in cooperation with the American private sector, will make available programs designed to help Kazakhstan establish the institutions, ideas, and practices that form the foundation of democracy.
Kazakhstan will seek to accelerate its efforts to move toward a market economy through a plan for macroeconomic stabilization and structural/microeconomic reform that will promote economic recovery, market development, and growth. This plan will be developed in cooperation with the International Monetary Fund and other international financial institutions. The United States will support such a plan and will encourage others to do so as well. In particular, the United States will provide Kazakhstan with access to technical assistance programs to assist its efforts to develop a market economy.
Kazakhstan and the United States will work actively to promote free trade, investment, and economic cooperation between our countries. The United States and Kazakhstan have signed three economic agreements that constitute the basic framework of our economic relationship. They will promote economic ties between the two states and will further economic development. We have concluded a trade agreement that will confer Most Favored Nation tariff treatment on Kazakhstan, an OPIC agreement to make available investment insurance for American firms investing in Kazakhstan, and a Bilateral Investment Treaty. We have also agreed to expedite negotiations on a tax treaty, and to develop our cooperation in the area of scientific research and environmental protection. A critical feature of our cooperation will be an effort by Kazakhstan to lower barriers to trade and investment to allow greater access for American and foreign firms, especially in sectors such as oil and natural gas, mining, agriculture, manufacturing, and food processing.
By agreeing to work jointly to advance these common interests, we have taken an important step in the development of a strong, lasting friendship between Kazakhstan and the United States. Through expanded cooperation between our governments, and expanded contacts between our peoples, we seek to build an enduring relationship that will enhance the freedom and well-being of our nations and the world.
  