
    Former Representative Brenda Lee Pryce, Representative Rosalyn Henderson-Myers, and Councilwoman Erica Brown Endorse Kamala Harris for President
As Senator Kamala Harris returns to South Carolina for her sixth trip as a presidential candidate, she has received the endorsement of three prominent women leaders in the Upstate. Former Representative Brenda Lee Pryce, Representative Rosalyn Henderson-Myers, and Councilwoman Erica Brown announced they are backing Harris, citing her focus on women and families.
Last week Harris released a plan to close the gender pay gap under which the median annual pay for a woman in South Carolina would increase by up to $3,060 per year. After unveiling the plan, she was endorsed by former Democratic nominee for Attorney General Constance Anastopoulo and co-founder of Emerge SC, Susan Riordan.
"As a former SC State Representative, I'm endorsing Kamala Harris for President because she represents the same values that I embraced," Pryce said. "Her entire agenda is about giving working people a fair shot, from raising teacher pay by 19% for South Carolina teachers to proposing the most significant middle class tax cut in generations. I'm excited to work with her to finally ensure that working families are our nation's top priority."
Brenda Lee Pryce served as a member of the S.C. House of Representatives for District 31 from 1995 to 2005. She is a 1966 graduate of Carver High School and attended the University of South Carolina. She was the 1998 recipient of the E. Lewis Miller Award for leadership in Spartanburg and is a fellow soror in Alpha Kappa Alpha, inc.
"As a former prosecutor, former judge, and criminal defense attorney who understands the need for true criminal justice reform, I'm proud to endorse Kamala Harris," said Henderson-Myers. "As President, she has pledged to end private prisons and push states to prioritize treatment and rehabilitation for drug offenses. I'm excited to join her to keep all our families safe by finally making our criminal justice system fair for everyone."
Born in Spartanburg, Henderson-Myers currently serves as a member of the S.C. House of Representatives in House District 31. She graduated from the University of South Carolina in 1978 and is a member of the including the South Carolina Black Lawyers Association. Henderson-Myers is also a former state court judge, having presided over family law cases, criminal misdemeanors, juvenile court, civil cases and child welfare cases. She is the immediate past chair of the Women Lawyers Division of the National Bar Association that represented some 30,000 black female lawyers and law professors across the country.
"As she's campaigned in every corner of this state, Kamala Harris has spoken to the everyday needs of South Carolinians," said Brown. "I'm proud to endorse her campaign because she's focused on the needs of women and families, from improving public transportation to ensuring our teachers are finally paid what they need in order to do the best for our children."
Brown was first elected to the Spartanburg City Council in 2013 and won re-election in 2017. She was formerly a patient resource specialist at St. Luke's Free Medical Clinic in Spartanburg and attended Wofford College.
"I'm excited to have the support of these women leaders," Harris said. "Representative Brenda Lee Pryce, Representative Rosalyn Henderson-Myers, and Councilwoman Erica Brown are all pillars in their communities. As I continue to campaign in South Carolina, I look forward to working with them to ensure that the voices of women and families are uplifted and heard."
Harris has previously been endorsed by I.S. Leevy Johnson, Bakari Sellers, Senator Darrell Jackson, Senator John Scott, Representative JA Moore, Representative Pat Henegen, former gubernatorial candidate Marguerite Willis, former Democratic nominee for Attorney General Constance Anastopoulo, Berkeley County Democratic Chair Melissa Watson, and Emerge South Carolina co-founder Susan Riordan.
  