
    Pool Reports by Eli Stokols, Los Angeles Times 



Sent:
Reports:




May 10, 202211:19

Pool report #1 - checking in from WH
Morning, all.
I'll be your pooler today. Please be in touch if you have any questions throughout the day.
Some of us just gathered in the driveway to observe Paris Hilton's emerging from the EEOB. She came slowly down the main steps but then turned north up West Executive Drive instead of coming over to talk at the sticks. Alas.
No changes to the schedule for now, so tracking the two events today that are open to pool and the Psaki briefing after that:
11:30 AM THE PRESIDENT delivers remarks on his plan to fight inflation and lower costs for working families, and contrast his approach with Congressional Republicans' ultra-MAGA plan to raise taxes on 75 million American families and threaten to sunset programs like Social Security, Medicare, and Medicaid
South Court AuditoriumIn-House Pool and Pre-Credentialed Media (Gather 11:20 AM – Stakeout Location) [RSVP here by 8:00 AM]
2:00 PM THE PRESIDENT holds a bilateral meeting with Prime Minister Mario Draghi of Italy to reaffirm the deep bonds of friendship and strong partnership between the United States and ItalyOval OfficeRestricted In-House Pool Spray at the Top (Gather 1:50 PM – Brady Press Briefing Room)
Briefing Schedule
2:30 PM Press Briefing with Press Secretary Jen Psaki



May 10, 202211:36

Pool report #2 - in South Court Auditorium
Pool is in place now in the South Court Auditorium for POTUS' schedule remarks on inflation. The blue screen behind the presidential lectern says "Lowering Costs and Tackling Inflation."
Will send a two-minute warning when we get one.



May 10, 202211:59

Pool report #3 - 2-minute warning
Got the two-minute warning at 11:57 a.m. Stand by for POTUS remarks on inflation from South Court.
Watch here: whitehouse.gov/live



May 10, 202212:33

Pool report #4 - POTUS remarks and Q& A
POTUS entered the South Court Auditorium at 11:58 in a blue suit and black mask, which he removed before speaking (via teleprompter).
He wrapped his remarks at 12:20 p.m. Then he stayed at the lectern for several questions.
Asked if he is at all responsible for inflation, Biden said: "We're in power…we control all three branches of government. Well, we don't really." He lamented not being able to get 60 votes in the Senate to advance his agenda.
"They're frustrated," he said of the country. "I don't blame them."
On whether his policies have contributed to inflation: "I think our policies have helped, not hurt."
Asked if he's considered asking Americans to drive less and consume less, Biden said his infrastructure bill will eventually make it easier for people to avoid driving.
Right now, however, he said "you don't have a lot of choices."
He said he's long been committed to transitioning to cleaner energy, lamenting that Republicans have been so resistant to his agenda.
"I never expected the ultra-MAGA Republicans who seem to control the Republican Party to be able to control the Republican Party."
He did not respond to a question about abortion, stating "I want the story to be about inflation."
Asked how long he thinks inflation will continue, he said: "I'm not going to predict that."
Ed O'Keefe read Sen. Rick Scott's comments calling him "senile" and urging him to resign and asked him to respond. Biden, who smiled as the quote was read aloud, replied: "I think the man has a problem."
Asked if he's considering rolling back President Trump's tariffs on China to ease inflation, he said: "We're discussing that right now."
POTUS walked out at 12:29.
Speech was carried live but here's a quick recap. Please check all quotes against transcript.
POTUS began by calling inflation "the biggest challenge families face" at the moment, while rattling off a number of positive economic indicators.
"I want every American to know that I'm taking inflation very seriously and it's my top domestic priority," he said.
POTUS also said that inflation is largely the result of "global" challenges — the pandemic and the war in Ukraine.
He touted actions he's already taken (e.g. releasing oil from reserves) and contrasted his plan to lower consumer costs, drug prices with GOP plans that he said would enable energy companies to reap larger profits.
"Republicans have offered lots of blame," he said, but have "no plan" to bring down the cost of gasoline and other goods.
THe GOP plan he said is "raising your taxes and lowering your income." He attributed the plan to "Senator Rick Scott from Wisconsin" (Scott is from Florida."
Republicans, he continued, are "deeply committed to protecting corporations" that have been profiting and using inflation as an excuse, he alleged, to raise prices to increase their profits.
His plan, he said, would raise taxes on corporations to make them "pay their fair share."
He spoke about Scott's proposal to sunset all federal laws in 5 years unless re-passed, arguing it would mean the end of Medicare and Social Security.
"I can't believe a majority of Republicans buy on to Scott's plan," he said, calling it "outrageous."
Toward the end, Biden spoke directly to American consumers: "I know you've got to be frustrated," he said, but warned against handing them power. "Look at their agenda."



May 10, 202213:50

Pool report #5 - Draghi arrival
The black SUV transporting Italian PM Mario Draghi pulled through the WH north gates at 1:47 and stopped under the West Wing portico.
Chief of Protocol Rufus Gifford greeted him and the men walked quickly inside at 1:48. A number of staff followed on foot and walked in behind them.
Pool is now in the briefing room waiting to go back for the Oval spray.



May 10, 202214:01

Pool report #6 - heading to Oval
Pool is on the move to the Oval at 2:01 p.m. for the spray or the meeting between POTUS and Italian PM Mario Draghi.
Will send any newsy quotes in as close to real time as possible.
And would refer you to foreign pooler Richard Latendresse's last report for more interesting details about Draghi and the visit.



May 10, 202214:12

Pool report #7 - Oval spray
Pool entered the Oval at 2:02 p.m.
POTUS and PM Draghi were seated in the two arm chairs at the end of the two sofas.
POTUS spoke first.
"You've been a good friend and a great ally," Biden said, glancing down at large notecards, saying it was his chance to repay the "hospitality you showed to me in Rome" last year.
He referenced the "long history of shared bonds" between the two countries and how so many Italian Americans are proud of their heritage.
He said something about Ukraine but spoke so softly the only word I could hear was "incredible."
Draghi, speaking in English, spoke next and thanked Biden for the "great hospitality."
"The ties between our two countries will always be strong. And if anything, this war in Ukraine has made them stronger," Draghi said. "Putin thought he could divide us. He failed.
"We stand together," he continued.
"In Italy and Europe now, people want an end to this violence; these massacres, this butchering that's happening," asking what else can be done to end the war quickly and said they'd discuss furthering Europe's energy independence from Russia and other matters.
Biden spoke again after Draghi finished.
"A strong European Union is in the interests of the United States," he said. "It's good for everyone."
"Putin believed he could split us. But we've all stepped up," Biden said.
He stopped at 2:08 and the two leaders did not respond to a cacophony of shouted questions in English and Italian.
Pool escorted out at 2:09.



May 10, 202214:22

Pool report #8 - meeting attendees
Passing this along from the White House:
Attendees at the President's bilateral meeting with H.E. Mario Draghi, Prime Minister of the Italian Republic:
U.S. ManifestThe PresidentT.H. Janet Yellen, Secretary of the TreasuryT.H. Jon Finer, Assistant to the President and Principal Deputy National Security AdvisorT.H Wendy Sherman, Deputy Secretary of StateMr. Thomas Smitham, Chargé d'Affaires ad interim, U.S. Embassy RomeT.H. Karen Donfried, Assistant Secretary of State for European and Eurasian AffairsT.H. Dr. Amanda Sloat, Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for Europe, National Security CouncilMs. Joanna Pritchett, Director for European Union Affairs, National Security Council
Italy ManifestH.E. Mario Draghi, Prime Minister of the Italian RepublicH.E. Mariangela Zappia, Ambassador of Italy to the United StatesMr. Antonio Funiciello, Head of CabinetH.E. Luigi Mattiolo, Diplomatic AdvisorLt. Gen. Luigi De Leverano, Military AdvisorDr. Francesco Giavazzi, Economic AdvisorMs. Paola Ansuini, Head of CommunicationsMr. Ferdinando Giuliano, Media Advisor



May 10, 202214:39

Pool report #9 - 2-min warning to briefing
Two-min warning to Jen's briefing given at 2:37 p.m.



May 10, 2022
[APP Note: Report #10 does not exist or was not received by the APP.]


May 10, 202216:02

Pool report #11 - (late) lunch lid
We have a lunch lid until 4:50 p.m.
While there is nothing else on the president's official schedule, Jen Psaki did mention during the briefing that POTUS is meeting today with Speaker Pelosi and other members who went on the recent CODEL to Ukraine.
Also, the Draghi meeting ended some time earlier -- WH has not sent the end time yet, but will pass that along when we get it.



May 10, 202216:06

Pool report #12 - Draghi mtg end time
From the WH:
President Biden's bilateral meeting with Prime Minister Draghi of Italy concluded at 3:26 PM.



May 10, 202216:42

Pool report #13 - Pelosi meeting started at 4:09, still going
From the WH:
The President's meeting with Speaker Pelosi and Members of the Congressional delegation that recently visited Ukraine started at 4:09 PM in the Situation Room.



May 10, 202217:32

Pool report #14 - Pelosi and crew heading to the sticks now
For anyone still at the White House and waiting for Speaker Pelosi and the other members to come to the sticks to speak, press aide tells me they are heading that way now.
Will follow up with any news when they wrap.



May 10, 202217:59

Pool report #15 - Pelosi CODEL driveway gaggle
Pelosi came out of the West Wing doors with six other House members (full list below) at 5:34 p.m. and began speaking at the sticks. The gaggle lasted 11 minutes.
She said they told POTUS they had "a long and detailed meeting" with President Zelensky in Kyiv and discussed about security, sanctions, humanitarian and diplomatic assistance.
She said they relayed to POTUS that the conversation "began with Zelensky praising President Biden and thanking him for his support" and that the US delegation praised Zelensky's courage and that of the Ukrainian people.
On Ukraine aid moving separately now from Covid aid, she said: "We can't wait. Time is of the essence." She called it "a matter of life and death."
When she finished, she introduced the other members with her, their relevant committee assignments or expertise, and they each spoke briefly.
Rep. Adam Schiff wouldn't say what specific weapons systems Zelensky asked for, speaking more broadly about the importance of keeping defense aid flowing to Ukraine: "We are trying to make sure Ukraine has everything it needs to defend itself," he said, calling it "the quickest way to bring this war to an end."
Rep. Jason Crow was a bit more specific about Ukraine's military needs.
"To meet the next evolution of this battle they need greater rapid artillery standoff, they need some version of a multiple launch rocket system that's going to extend the range they can defend their urban cities and push back Russian artillery but also retake territory that's been seized by the Russians," Crow said. He noted they also need "more advanced drones" and "longer anti-ship missile systems," as well as "a more consistent rotational training system so they don't have to take their most experienced soldiers off the frontlines."
Rep. Barbara Lee: "The humanitarian issues are urgent."
Rep. Greg Meeks: "There'll be more sanctions coming."
Rep. McGovern talked about Putin blocking food shipments and said the war is not just against Ukraine but "against the worlds most vulnerable people" because he's "creating a global food crisis."
They turned and walked away at 5:46, heading down the steps to West Executive Drive. Pelosi said they're going back to the Capitol to vote on the Ukraine aid package.
Full list of meeting participants, from the WH:
Speaker Nancy Pelosi (CA-12)Chairman Jim McGovern (MA-02)Chairman Greg Meeks (NY-05)Chairman Adam Schiff (CA-28)Congresswoman Barbara Lee (CA-13)Congressman Bill Keating (MA-09)Congressman Jason Crow (CO-06)



May 10, 202218:00

Pool report #16 - travel/photo lid
Travel/photo lid called at 5:59 p.m.
Have a good night, everyone.




 
Pool Reports below by Richard Latendresse, Groupe TVA 



Sent:
Reports:




May 10, 202213:14

Foreign Pool Report - PM Draghi's Visit
Good afternoon,
I will be your Foreign pooler today for Prime Minister Draghi's visit to the White House.
The bilat was scheduled for 2pm; a short delay is to be expected.
Mario Draghi who, at 74, has a long list of accomplishments was president of the European Central Bank for eight years before becoming Prime Minister of Italy on February 13, 2021.
It will be his first visit to the White House as Prime Minister; the Italian Embassy doesn't know if he came previously in a different role while accompanying another Italian delegation.
No Italian ministers or secretaries are expected to join him in the Oval Office. The Italian Ambassador to the US, Mariangela Zappia, will be the highest-ranking officer in the delegation. Ambassador Luigi Mattiolo, Diplomatic Advisor to PM Draghi, will also join the meeting.
President Biden and Prime Minister Draghi have had two full-fledged bilateral meetings on the margins of the Carbis Bay G7 Summit and the Rome G20 Summit.
They also recently met at the European Council and NATO summits in Brussels.
According to the Italian Embassy, they also had numerous phone calls and multilateral encounters with other partners and allies.
The Embassy of Italy proudly reminds us that, "according to the most recent census, Americans of Italian origin are 17.3 million, making Italian Americans the fourth largest ethnic group of European origin after Germany, Ireland, and the UK."
Don't hesitate if you have any questions,Richard



May 10, 202214:26

Foreign Pool Report #1 - PM Drahi/POTUS in OO
When the journalists came in, PM Draghi and POTUS were mainly alone in the Oval Office.
Afterwards, according to the WH Press office, the bilat was ttended by...
U.S. ManifestThe PresidentT.H. Janet Yellen, Secretary of the TreasuryT.H. Jon Finer, Assistant to the President and Principal Deputy National Security AdvisorT.H Wendy Sherman, Deputy Secretary of StateMr. Thomas Smitham, Chargé d'Affaires ad interim, U.S. Embassy RomeT.H. Karen Donfried, Assistant Secretary of State for European and Eurasian AffairsT.H. Dr. Amanda Sloat, Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for Europe, National Security CouncilMs. Joanna Pritchett, Director for European Union Affairs, National Security Council
Italy ManifestH.E. Mario Draghi, Prime Minister of the Italian RepublicH.E. Mariangela Zappia, Ambassador of Italy to the United StatesMr. Antonio Funiciello, Head of CabinetH.E. Luigi Mattiolo, Diplomatic AdvisorLt. Gen. Luigi De Leverano, Military AdvisorDr. Francesco Giavazzi, Economic AdvisorMs. Paola Ansuini, Head of CommunicationsMr. Ferdinando Giuliano, Media Advisor



May 10, 202214:37

Foreign Pool Report #2 - PM Draghi's comments
Prime MInister Draghi spoke in perfect English for 2 minutes and a half.
After thanking POTUS for his hospitality, he added:
"The ties between our two countries have always been strong, and if anything this war in Ukraine made them stronger.
Putin thought he could divide us. We stand together condemning the invasion of Ukraine, sanctionning Russia.
But I have to tell you that in Italy and in Europe now, people want to see an end to these massacres, this violence, this butchery.
And people think about what can we do to bring peace.
We certainly have to use any direct (inaudible), but it's not enough? What can we do?
People want to think about the possibility of bringing a ceasefire and start engaging in credible negociations. That's the situation right now.
I think we have to think deeply about how to address this.
We will continue to work on energy security, food security especially which is another issue about which we'll talk later about what to do.
The other thing I will say - I don't think we'll discuss this later - but what happens in Ukraine is going to bring a drastic change in European unity. We've always been close. Now, we're going to be much closer.
I know I can count on your support as a true friend of Europe and of Italy, of course."



May 10, 202216:04

Foreign Pool Report #2 - End of Bilat
President Biden's bilateral meeting with Prime Minister Draghi of Italy concluded at 3:26 PM.




  