
    Today, Romney for President released a new web video, "#MothersDay." To celebrate Mother's Day, Tagg, Matt, Josh, Ben, and Craig Romney decided to pay tribute to their mom by sharing some of their favorite memories of her.
To View "#MothersDay" Please See: http://mi.tt/KTXp0h
AD FACTS: Script For "#MothersDay"
BEN ROMNEY: "Looking back on the things that impressed me most about my mom, was how, I knew I was just one of five boys in the house, but I felt like when I was with her, that I was the most important thing in the world to her."
TAGG ROMNEY: "We were very rambunctious—all of us were—but we loved it. It was fun. I remember my mom was always begging for us to be quiet. 'Please, can I have quiet in this house?' My brother and I, Matt, fought a lot. It caused her endless grief. He had a couple of nicknames for me he knew I didn't like."
MATT ROMNEY: "It was easy. It's really fun to get a rise out of your brother."
TAGG: "She eventually decided it was better to, if you can't beat them, join them. She would play along in our games and help us make forts. She'd get down there and wrestle with us and play catch with us."
MATT: "She always laughed with us and she was kind of the first to join in the fun."
JOSH ROMNEY: "There was a character on Little Rascals that has a really deep voice and I could imitate that voice. I had a high, squeaky voice as a kid, but I could do this really deep, baritone voice. It got me out of trouble a lot. When my mom would be really mad at me or about to punish me for something, I'd use the voice and say 'Don't hurt Froggy, mom.' And she would laugh and basically got out of trouble almost any time. And in later years, my mom, because my brother Ben is so skinny, my mom used to make pancakes every morning to try and fatten Ben up."
BEN: "I was pretty scrawny and, so, she made me pancakes every morning for breakfast. She was amazing how she did that."
CRAIG ROMNEY: "She left my brothers in charge and I think it was one of the first times they were in charge of watching me. I was up on the counter and there's this tub of marshmallow fluff and I was eating it, so my hands were just covered in it and it was kind of getting on my face and then my brothers found me and they kind of encouraged me to just get it even more all over my face and then I think my mom walked in as we were kind of in there together. I don't think she let them watch me for a while after that."
TAGG: "She is an authentic person. You know who she is when you meet her. She's not—she doesn't put on airs. She doesn't try to be something that she's not. She doesn't try to measure what she's going to say to gauge how you're going to react to it. She just says what she thinks."
MATT: "She's very easy to talk to. I mean, it goes without saying, but people that are easy to talk to are great listeners."
JOSH: "She's one of those people that just loves to talk to people, get to know what their struggles are, what they're going through, especially having been through so much herself, with her MS and cancer, and the other things she's been through in her life, but even before she went through those things, she's always just been really incredibly compassionate and caring about people."
CRAIG: "She's very slow to judge and very quick to lend a helping hand."
BEN: "Just the softness about her. And I think, I hope, I have some of that."
VIDEO TEXT: "Happy Mother's Day! Love, the boys"
VIDEO TEXT: "To all the moms, Happy Mother's Day"
  