
    Today, President Donald J. Trump announced his intent to nominate:
Peter J. Phipps of Pennsylvania, to serve as a Circuit Judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit.
Peter Phipps currently serves as U.S. District Judge for the Western District of Pennsylvania, where he has served since his confirmation by the U.S. Senate and appointment by President Donald J. Trump in 2018. Before taking the bench, Judge Phipps served as Senior Trial Counsel in the Federal Programs Branch of the Department of Justice's Civil Division. During his 14-year tenure at the Justice Department, Judge Phipps litigated some of the most significant cases implicating the interests of the United States and received numerous awards and commendations, including the Attorney General's Distinguished Service Award. Earlier in his career, Judge Phipps spent three years as an associate at Jones Day, where his practice focused on civil litigation. He also served as a law clerk to Judge R. Guy Cole, Jr., of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit. Mr. Phipps earned both a B.S. and a B.A., summa cum laude, from the University of Dayton and earned his J.D. from Stanford Law School, where he served as the Managing Editor of the Stanford Law & Policy Review.
Douglas R. Cole of Ohio, to serve as Judge on the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Ohio.
Doug Cole is a Partner at Organ Cole LLP in Columbus, Ohio, representing clients in complex litigation and intellectual property matters. From 2002 to 2006, Mr. Cole served as State Solicitor of Ohio in the Office of the Ohio Attorney General. In that role, Mr. Cole briefed and argued cases in the Supreme Court of the United States, the Ohio Supreme Court, and the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit on behalf of the State of Ohio. Before serving as State Solicitor, Mr. Cole was a Professor at the Ohio State University Moritz College of Law, where he taught courses in Corporations, Contracts, and Law & Economics. Mr. Cole continues to serve as an Adjunct Professor at the law school. Upon graduation from law school, Mr. Cole served as a law clerk to Judge Frank H. Easterbrook of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit. Mr. Cole earned his B.A. from Ripon College; his B.S.E.E., with honors, from the University of Wisconsin; and his J.D., with high honors, from the University of Chicago Law School.
Charles R. Eskridge III of Texas, to serve as Judge on the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Texas. 
Charles Eskridge is a Partner at Quinn Emanuel Urquhart & Sullivan LLP in Houston, Texas, where his practice focuses on complex commercial litigation. Before joining Quinn Emanuel, he spent over two decades in the Houston, Texas, office of Susman Godfrey LLP. Mr. Eskridge is a member of the American Law Institute and serves as an Adjunct Professor at the University of Houston Law Center, teaching a course on the Origins of the Federal Constitution. Upon graduation from law school, Mr. Eskridge served as a law clerk to Judge Charles Clark of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit and to Justice Byron R. White of the Supreme Court of the United States. Mr. Eskridge earned his B.S., magna cum laude, from Trinity University and his J.D., summa cum laude, from Pepperdine University School of Law. While in law school, Mr. Eskridge served as an editor of the Pepperdine Law Review.
Kea W. Riggs of New Mexico, to serve as Judge on the U.S. District Court for the District of New Mexico.
Judge Kea Riggs currently serves as a Judge on New Mexico's Fifth Judicial Circuit. Before joining the State bench in 2014, Judge Riggs served as a Magistrate Judge on the U.S. District Court for the District of New Mexico. Previously, Judge Riggs was in private practice with Sanders, Bruin, Coll, & Worley in Roswell, New Mexico, and served the State of New Mexico as a Senior Trial Prosecutor, Children's Court Attorney, and Assistant District Attorney. Judge Riggs earned her B.B.A. from the University of Oklahoma and her J.D. from the University of Oklahoma College of Law.
William Shaw Stickman IV of Pennsylvania, to serve as Judge on the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Pennsylvania.
William Stickman is a Partner with Del Sole Cavanaugh Stroyd LLC, where his practices focuses on commercial litigation and appellate matters. From 2011 to 2017, Mr. Stickman served on the Pennsylvania Civil Procedural Rules Committee and helped to review, amend, and draft the Pennsylvania Rules of Civil Procedure. Earlier in his career, Mr. Stickman served as a law clerk to Chief Justice Ralph J. Cappy of the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania. Mr. Stickman earned his B.A., summa cum laude, and his J.D. from Duquesne University. He was a member of the Duquesne Law Review during law school.
Jennifer Philpott Wilson of Pennsylvania, to serve as Judge on the U.S. District Court for the Middle District of Pennsylvania.
Jennifer Wilson is a Partner with Philpott Wilson LLP, in Duncannon, Pennsylvania, where her practice includes civil litigation, criminal defense, and family law matters. Prior to joining the firm, Ms. Wilson served as a Trial Attorney with the Department of Justice's Tax Division and was an Associate with Chadbourne & Park LLP. She has been an Adjunct Professor at Penn State University Dickinson School of Law, teaching a course on "Written Advocacy and Judicial Opinions." Upon graduation from law school, Ms. Wilson served as a law clerk to Judge Jon P. McCalla of the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Tennessee and to Judge Julio M. Fuentes of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit. Ms. Wilson earned her B.A., cum laude, from Swarthmore College and her J.D., summa cum laude, from Brooklyn Law School, where she served as the Executive Notes and Comments Editor for the Brooklyn Law Review.
William D. Hyslop of Washington, to serve as the United States Attorney for the Eastern District of Washington.
William Hyslop is a Principal in the Spokane, Washington, office of Lukins & Annis PS, where his practice focuses on complex commercial and business litigation in the State and Federal courts. Mr. Hyslop previously served as the U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of Washington from 1991 to 1993. Mr. Hyslop previously served as president of the Washington State Bar Association and Federal Bar Association for the Eastern District of Washington. He received his B.A. from Washington State University, his M.P.A. from the University of Washington, and his J.D. from the Gonzaga University School of Law.
Vincent F. DeMarco of New York, to serve as United States Marshal for the Eastern District of New York. 
Vincent DeMarco is the former Sheriff of Suffolk County, New York. Mr. DeMarco spent 23 years in the Suffolk County Sherriff's Office: he started as a Deputy Sheriff in 1994, was elected as Sheriff in 2005, and retired at the end of 2017. During that time, Mr. DeMarco served as Chairman of the Suffolk County Criminal Justice Coordinating Council. Mr. DeMarco received his B.S. from St. John's University.
Peter M. Vito of New York, to serve as United States Marshal for the Western District of New York. 
Peter M. Vito is the Founder and Chief Executive Officer of Peter M. Vito & Associates, a Buffalo, New York, based private investigation firm he started in 1979. From 2008 to 2012, Mr. Vito served as the Commissioner of the Erie County Central Police Services. Mr. Vito began his law enforcement career as a Deputy Sheriff in the Erie County Sheriff's Office in 1972 and served part-time as an Investigator for the Niagara County District Attorney's Office from 1986 to 1993. Mr. Vito received his B.A. from Canisius College.
Wilmer Ocasio of Puerto Rico, to serve as United States Marshal for the District of Puerto Rico. 
Wilmer Ocasio currently serves as the Deputy Commissioner of the Guaynabo City Police Department and as a Staff Sergeant in the Puerto Rico National Guard Security Forces. Mr. Ocasio has held a number of positions in Puerto Rico law enforcement, including as Director of External Resources and Federal Grants for the Puerto Rico Police Department, Special Assistant to the Director of the Bureau of Special Investigations for the Puerto Rico Department of Justice, Security Director and Law Enforcement Liaison for the Puerto Rico Department of Family Affairs, and Sergeant-At-Arms for the Puerto Rico House of Representatives. Mr. Ocasio earned his B.S. and his M.C.J. from the Inter-American University of Puerto Rico.
  