
    Today, President Donald J. Trump announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key positions in his Administration:
Philip S. Goldberg of the District of Columbia, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Colombia.
Mr. Goldberg is a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Career Ambassador, and is the Senior State Department Fellow at the Institute for the Study of Diplomacy at Georgetown University. Ambassador Goldberg has served as Chargé d'Affaires ad interim of the United States Embassy Havana, Cuba, Ambassador to the Philippines, Ambassador to Bolivia, and Chief of Mission of the United States Office in Pristina, Kosovo. Other assignments include serving as Assistant Secretary of State (Intelligence and Research) and the State Department's Coordinator for the Implementation of United Nations Resolution 1874 on North Korea sanctions. In addition to these roles, Ambassador Goldberg has served as the Chargé d'Affaires and Deputy Chief of Mission in Santiago, Chile, Acting Deputy Assistant Secretary for Legislative Affairs, and as Plan Colombia Coordinator at the United States Embassy in Bogota, Colombia. He achieved the rank of Career Ambassador in 2018 and is the recipient of a Presidential Distinguished Rank Award, two Presidential Meritorious Rank Awards, and the National Intelligence Silver Seal Medallion. Ambassador Goldberg earned his B.S. degree from Boston University, and is fluent in Spanish.
Jessica Lapenn of New York, to be the Representative of the United States of America to the African Union (with the Rank and Status of Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary).
Ms. Lapenn, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, currently serves as the Chargé d'Affaires, United States Embassy Pretoria, South Africa, a position she has held since 2016. Previously, Ms. Lapenn was the Executive Assistant and Chief of Staff to the Under Secretary for Civilian Security, Human Rights, and Democracy in the State Department. Ms. Lapenn was the Deputy Chief of Mission of the United States Embassy Kigali, Rwanda, and led the Office for Human Rights and Humanitarian Affairs in the Bureau of International Organizations in Washington, D.C. Earlier in her career, Ms. Lapenn served as the Political Advisor to the United States Permanent Representative to the United Nations. Ms. Lapenn earned a B.A. from Harvard College and an M.Phil from Cambridge University.
  