
    STATEMENT OF ADMINISTRATION POLICY
(House Floor)(Sponsors: Whitten (D), Mississippi; Hefner (D), North Carolina)
This Statement of Administration Policy expresses the Administration's views on H.R. 2426, the Military Construction Appropriations Bill, as reported by the House Appropriations Committee. On the basis of OMB's preliminary scoring of the bill, the Committee recommendations are within the House 602(b) allocation for Military Construction activities. In aggregate, the House 602(b) allocations are consistent with the statutory spending limits enacted in the Budget Enforcement Act.
Although the Committee bill) in total, is only $80 million below the President's request, it would significantly change Administration priorities. The Committee has recommended $677 million in reductions to the President's requests, including a $200 million reduction in NATO Infrastructure funding. The bill would provide an additional $597 million for programs unrequested by the Administration. The Administration urges the House to restore funding to requested levels and to delete unrequested projects and provisions.
The $200 million reduction in NATO Infrastructure funding (from $359 million to $159 million) is particularly troublesome. This would prevent the United States from meeting commitments to NATO by forcing termination or stretch-out of projects supporting Conventional Forces in Europe (CFE) Treaty compliance.
The bill also contains objectionable language provisions. Section 113 would require notification of Congressional committees prior to conducting military exercises involving construction costs anticipated to exceed $100,000. Section 117 would require a report to Congressional committees on details of efforts to encourage NATO nations and Japan to assume a greater share of the common defense burden. The Administration urges the deletion of these sections, which raise concerns regarding the President's constitutional powers as Commander-in-Chief and in the conduct of foreign affairs.
The attached data table can be downloaded in PDF format by clicking this link
  