
    Richardson's political momentum accelerates across the country as campaign grows and message on Iraq war spreads
SANTA FE, NM-Today, New Mexico Governor Bill Richardson announced the appointment of numerous prominent elected officials, Democratic activists, and community leaders from Texas, Georgia and Arkansas to lead his state Steering Committees and join his campaign team as part of his effort to secure the 2008 Democratic Presidential nomination.
"I am honored to have such a tremendous amount of support from prominent, respected, and qualified Democrats from across the country," said Governor Richardson. "Our momentum is accelerating every day. And with the support of each of these Steering Committee members we are proving the political strength of my campaign. I am looking forward to campaigning in each of these states and working with my supporters to spread my message of moving America forward."
Texas
Endorsers:

Silvestre Reyes, Congressman
Gene Green, Congressman
Domingo Garcia, Former Dallas City Councilor
Henry Cisneros, Former Housing and Urban Development Secretary Appointed by Pres. Clinton
Rick Noreiga, TX State Representative
JD Salinas III, Hidalgo City Judge
Tony Villarreal, Mayor of Ft. Stockton
Gil Coronado, Retired Colonel
Pete Gallego, TX State Representative
Jack Ogg, Former TX State Senator
Ygnacio D. "Nacho" Garza, Former Mayor of Brownsville
Sylvia Romo, Bexar City Tax Assessor & Former State Representative
Susan Hays, Dallas County Democratic Chair
Ana "Cha" Guzman, Educator and Businesswoman
Frank Santos, President of Santos Alliances
Betty Burris, Democratic Activist
Eric Reeves, Dallas Businessman and Former NC State Senator
Gilberto Ocanas, Businessman and Democratic Activist
Rick Bolanos, Vietnam Veteran and Democratic Activist
Celia Israel, Democratic Activist
RJ Laino, Businessman
Rolando Rios, Attorney and Businessman

"Our war policy and energy policy are connected and currently on the wrong path. At this time in our history, perhaps more than ever, America requires the leadership to put us on the right course. Bill Richardson brings successful foreign policy experience and energy policy experience to get this country back on the right track. The crisis of our situation demands that our country elect the most qualified candidate, a proven leader, to get us through this difficult time. Bill Richardson is that proven leader and our country needs him."

Texas State Representative Rick Noreiga

If there ever is a time when we, the people of this United States, need a unifying force, it is now. We are tired of high gas prices and the continuing deception of the War.
I support Gov. Bill Richardson because of his diversity of experience. He is the most qualified person who can bring reality back to the White House, who can effectively bring this Nation together, fiscally sound and diplomatically strong."

The Honorable Sylvia S. Romo, C.P.A.Tax Assessor-Collector, San Antonio

"We in West Texas are very proud of the experience and expertise that Gov. Bill Richardson brings to the table as our candidate for President. His record as a Congressman, Energy Secretary and Governor clearly shows he is the onlycandidate in the Democratic Party or Republican Party that has a balance of good government experience."

Mayor of Ft. Stockton Texas Tony Villarreal

"Bill Richardson is the right leader for the right time. He is a leader that can balance our budget, reclaim our leadership role in the world and bring our divided country together. Our nation needs Bill Richardson's leadership qualities to move America forward."

Eric Reeves, Dallas Businessman & Former North Carolina Senator.

Georgia
Co-Chairs:

Sam Zamarripa, Former Georgia State Senator, Co-Chair
George "Buddy" Darden, Former Congressman, Co-Chair

Endorsers:

Lawrence "Bud" Stumbaugh, Former Georgia State Senator
Virgilio Perez Pascoe, Executive Fellow at Center for Hispanic Studies, Kennesaw State University
Kevin Ross, Advisor to Atlanta Mayor Maynard Jackson, Senior Advisor to Cong. John Lewis 1986
J. Rutherford Seydel II, Business, Environmental & Conservation Attorney
Wendy Davis, Former Campaign Manager to US Senator Max Cleland & Congressman Sanford Bishop
Michael Dailey, Founding Partner, Anderson Dailey LLP
Charles "Gene" Watkins, Senior Counsel for CBEYOND

"We are pleased and proud in Georgia with the strong showing of our candidate Bill Richardson in the early stages of the campaign. Bill Richardson is undoubtedly the most qualified candidate seeking the Presidency. He has foreign policy experience. He is a Governor with hands-on experience dealing with the administration of government, as well as interacting with the legislative branch of government. He has served in Congress and been a member of the President Clinton's Cabinet as Secretary of Energy. Bill Richardson is a unifier. He can bring people together. He believes in dialogue and in the exchange of ideas even with those who disagree with him or our country. Bill Richardson truly will be an outstanding President of the United States and we are excited to recommend him to all Georgians."

Former Congressman George "Buddy" Darden

Arkansas
Co-Chairs:

Kevin Smith, Former State Representative & State Senator, Co-Chair
Tommy Baker, State Representative, Co-Chair

Endorsers:

Jimmy Jeffress, State Senator
Gene Yabrough, Mayor of Star City, AR
Jo Ann Smith, Former State Representative, Former Helena Mayor & First Female Municipal League President
Drew Pritt, Former Candidate for Lt. Governor

"Governor Bill Richardson has the most experience in foreign and domestic policy, of any candidate in either party. He is the only serious candidate with a public commitment to immediately remove our nation from the quagmire in the Middle East, and to bring our soldiers back home as soon as he takes office. He is the only candidate in either party that seems to be listening to what the American people want. Governor Richardson gets it, and -- more importantly -- has the experience to pull it off. That is why I am proud to both endorse him and Co-Chair his campaign in Arkansas."

Former State Representative & State Senator Kevin Smith

Additional political endorsements and state steering committees will be announced in the coming weeks.
  