
    President Donald J. Trump today announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key positions in his Administration:
Neil Chatterjee of Kentucky to be a Member of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission for the term expiring June 30, 2021. Mr. Chatterjee is energy policy advisor to United States Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell of Kentucky. Over the years he has played an integral role in the passage of major energy, highway, and farm legislation. Prior to serving Leader McConnell, he worked as a Principal in Government Relations for the National Rural Electric Cooperative Association and as an aide to House Republican Conference Chairwoman Deborah Pryce of Ohio. He began his career in Washington, DC, with the House Committee on Ways and Means. A Lexington, Kentucky native, he is a graduate of St. Lawrence University and the University of Cincinnati College of Law.
Jay Patrick Murray of Virginia to be the Alternate Representative of the United States of America for Special Political Affairs in the United Nations, with the rank of Ambassador and an Alternate Representative of the United States of America to the sessions of the General Assembly of the United Nations during his tenure of service as an Alternate Representative of the United States of America for Special Political Affairs in the United Nations, Department of State. Colonel Murray is a retired United States Army Colonel who served with distinction in Iraq, the Balkans, the United States Embassy Moscow, as an adviser in the Bureau of Political Military Affairs at the Department of State, and as the United States Military Representative at the United Nations. He earned advanced degrees from Oklahoma State University and The Ohio State University, and is a graduate of the George C. Marshall European Center for Security Studies in Germany, the United States Army Command and General Staff College, and the Sorenson Institute for Political Leadership at the University of Virginia. Colonel Murray is a published author, and is a political-military writer and commentator on TV and radio.
Robert F. Powelson of Pennsylvania to be a Member of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission for the term expiring June 30, 2020. Commissioner Powelson has served as a Commissioner on the Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission (PUC) since 2008. Commissioner Powelson was first nominated to the PUC on June 19, 2008, by Governor Edward G. Rendell and appointed Chairman by Governor Tom Corbett in 2011. Currently, Commissioner Powelson serves as the President of National Association of Regulatory Utility Commissioners (NARUC) based in Washington, DC. Commissioner Powelson serves on the Electric Power Research Institute Advisory Board (EPRI) as well as the Drexel University Board of Trustees. From 1994 to 2008, Powelson served as the President and CEO of the Chester County Chamber of Business and Industry based in Malvern, PA. In 2005, he was selected by the Eisenhower Presidential Fellow to be a United States fellow in Singapore and Australia. Commissioner Powelson holds a Bachelor of Administration from St. Joseph's University and a Master of Governmental Administration with a concentration in public finance from the University of Pennsylvania.
Adam J. Sullivan of Iowa to be Assistant Secretary of Transportation, Government Affairs. Mr. Sullivan's career in public service has spanned both chambers of Congress and the executive branch. He is currently a Professional Staff Member at the United States Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education. He has served on two separate occasions as a Chief of Staff for Members of the United States House of Representatives, and in other senior legislative roles focusing on a wide range of policy and appropriations-related issues. He also served as Deputy Assistant Secretary of Labor for Congressional Affairs during the George W. Bush Administration and worked on national security-related programs at Harris Corporation. Mr. Sullivan holds a Master of Business Administration from George Washington University and a Bachelor of Arts from Simpson College.
  