
    Pool Reports by Gerren Keith Gaynor, theGrio 



Sent:
Reports:




May 17, 202309:03

In-Town Pool #1 - Checking in
Good morning!
Checking in as your pooler for today, Wednesday, May 17.
The only event on the president's schedule ahead of his departure for Alaska en route to Hiroshima, Japan is a ceremony awarding the 2021-2022 Medal of Valor recipients.
The event is scheduled to take place inside the East Room at 9:30 am and will be live-streamed at https://www.whitehouse.gov/live/.
POTUS is scheduled to depart from the South Lawn at 11:25 a.m.



May 17, 202309:18

In-Town Pool #2 - Gathering for Palm Room doors
The pool is gathered at the Palm Room doors.



May 17, 202309:29

In-Town Pool #3 - Spotted in East Room
Pool is gathered inside the East Room.
Your pooler spotted familiar faces:
Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee
Interior Secretary Deb Haaland
White House Director of Public Engagement Stephen Benjamin



May 17, 202309:42

In-Town Pool #4 - Event starting soon
The Medal of Valor event is beginning shortly. Again this is being live-streamed.



May 17, 202309:53

In-Town Pool #5 - Attendees/Recipients
Please see the below from the White House:
In attendance for the President's remarks at a ceremony honoring the 2021-2022 Medal of Valor recipients:
Attorney General Merrick Garland, Department of JusticeSecretary Deb Haaland, Department of the InteriorActing Secretary Julie Su, Department of LaborRep. Sheila Jackson Lee (TX-18)Rep. Adriano Espaillat (NY-13)Rep. Jason Crow (CO-06)Commissioner Keechant Sewell, New York City Police DepartmentChief Troy Finner, Texas Police Department, HoustonGuests of the medal recipients, leaders of national first responder organizations, and White House staff
Medal of Valor Recipients: Corporal Jeffrey Farmer, Littleton Police Department, COLieutenant Justin Hespeler, Fire Department of New York City, NYLieutenant Jason Hickey, Fire Department of New York City, NYGabina Mora (Mother), accepting on behalf of Fallen Detective Wilbert Mora, New York City Police Department, NYDominique Rivera (Wife), accepting on behalf of Fallen Detective Jason Rivera, New York City Police Department, NYDetective Sumit Sulan, New York City Police Department, NYDeputy Bobby Pham, Clermont County Sheriff's Office, OHSergeant Kendrick Simpo, Houston Police Department, TXFirefighter Patrick Thornton, Fire Department of New York City, NY
Run of ShowAttorney General Merrick Garland, Department of JusticeThe PresidentConferring of the Medals of Valor



May 17, 202310:16

In-Town Pool #6 - Ceremony concludes/Debt ceiling question
The ceremony concluded at 10:12 am. POTUS shook the hands of the Medal of Valor recipients and a few of the attendees as he walked out of the East Room. He even took a selfie with one.
A reporter asked POTUS as he was leaving if there was a red line on the debt ceiling talks, to which he said, "Yes, depends on what they are."



May 17, 202310:21

In-Town Pool #7 - Clarification/Remarks on debt ceiling
To clarify, the president was asked "Do you have any *work requirements* red lines," to which Biden said, "Yes, it depends on what they are."
Also, pool got word that Biden will speak inside the Roosevelt Room at 10:45am before his departure.



May 17, 202310:38

In-Town Pool #8 - Pool gathered for remarks
The pool is moving to the Roosevelt Room …



May 17, 202311:20

In-Town Pool #9 - 2 min warning
2 min warning.
Your pooler apologizes in advance for any pool report delays as service is not great inside the Roosevelt Room.
President's remarks are being live-streamed on  whitehouse.gov/live



May 17, 202311:24

In-Town Pool #10 - Q&A/Gathering for Departure
Service is back. After his remarks, President Biden was asked a series of questions:
Q: What work requirements would you accept?
"Not going to accept work requirements that impact health needs" (Please check against transcript)
Will send more from Q&A as soon as I can.
Pool is now gathered for departure on the South Lawn.



May 17, 202311:36

In-Town Pool #11 - Boarding M1
POTUS walked out of the private residence and onto the South Lawn at 11:34. As he boarded M1, he was unable to hear any shouted questions from the press.
From the White House:
Traveling with the President aboard Marine One en route to Joint Base Andrews:
Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security AffairsJen O'Malley Dillon, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of StaffAnnie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations



May 17, 202311:49

In-Town Pool #12 - Full Q&A transcript
Here's the full transcript of the Q&A in the Roosevelt Room. Admittedly, it was hard to hear everything word for word.
Q: What about work requirements specifically? Are you still considering it sounds like it's still on the table, and you haven't rolled it out, which would you be willing to accept?
A: Well, I'm not going to accept any work requirements that's going to impact on medical health needs of people. I'm not going to accept any work requirements much beyond what is already ... I voted years ago for work requirements that exist. It's possible there could be a few ... but not anything of consequence ...
Q: What message does this send to PNG and Australia, I know it was important to you to focus on Asia on this trip, but this is having to be put aside. Is this is this almost a win for China?
A: No ... we're still formidable allies ...
Q: Will you meet with President Xi soon, sir?
A: Whether it's soon or not, we will be meeting* ...
*Not clear if POTUS said meeting or speaking.



May 17, 202313:54

In-Town Pool #13 -AF1 Gaggle in 5 minutes
In-Town pool is informed that Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre and National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan will gaggle on AF1 in 5 minutes.
Audio live-stream can be found here: https://www.whitehouse.gov/live/




 
Pool Reports below by Tyler Pager, The Washington Post 



Sent:
Reports:




May 17, 202311:54 EDT

Out-of-town Pool Report #1: JBA Arrival
Good morning from a windy JBA.
M1 landed here at 11:46 a.m.
POTUS, wearing a blue suit and aviators, disembarked at 11:50. He waved to the press but offered no comments.
He boarded AF1 at 11:51.
We should be wheels up to Alaska shortly. Karine Jean-Pierre and Jake Sullivan will gaggle during the flight over but timing of that is TBD.
From the White House:
Greeting the President upon arrival at Joint Base Andrews:
Colonel Matthew Jones, 89th Airlift Wing
Traveling with the President aboard Air Force One en route to Anchorage, Alaska:
Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security AffairsJen O'Malley Dillon, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of StaffBruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of StaffAnnie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President & Director of Oval Office OperationsKarine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press SecretaryBen LaBolt, Assistant to the President & Director of CommunicationsAmbassador Rufus Gifford, Chief of ProtocolMike Pyle, Deputy National Security Advisor for International Economic AffairsRyan Montoya, Deputy Assistant to the President & Director of Scheduling & AdvanceKurt Campbell, Deputy Assistant to the President & National Security Council Coordinator for the Indo-PacificCurtis Ried, Deputy Assistant to the President & National Security Council Chief of Staff & Executive SecretaryJohn Kirby, National Security Council Coordinator for Strategic CommunicationsAmos Hochstein, Special Presidential CoordinatorAshley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office OperationsEdgard Kagan, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for East Asia and OceaniaCarlyn Reichel, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for Speechwriting & Strategic Initiatives



May 17, 202312:10 EDT

Out-of-town Pool Report #2: Wheels up
AF1 was wheels up at 12:02



May 17, 202314:28 AKDT

Out-of-town Pool Report #3: Arrival in Alaska
AF1 was wheels down in Anchorage at 2:24 pm local time for a refuel stop.
Karine Jean-Pierre and Jake Sullivan gaggled during the flight for about 45 minutes.
John Kirby briefly visited the press cabin for an OTR shortly after take off. Otherwise, it was an uneventful flight.



May 17, 202315:45 AKDT

Out-of-town Pool Report #4: wheels up to Hiroshima
After an hour-long refuel stop, AF1 was wheels up to Japan at 3:43 pm local time.
During the stop, POTUS and his granddaughter, Maisy, walked off the plane and spent about 10 minutes on the tarmac, though the pool was stationed far from them.
Also, Secretary Blinken is traveling with POTUS aboard AF1. He was not on the manifest the White House sent out, but the pool saw him on the tarmac.




  