
    Pool Reports by Eugene Daniels, Politico 



Sent:
Reports:




May 20, 202213:27

VP Supplemental Pool #1 — Gathered
Hey there -- I'm your pooler for VP Harris' two events today. We are tested and waiting to get in the motorcade.
The first is in Falls Church, VA. Below is the background from her office:
At 1:45PM EDT, the Vice President will depart Washington, D.C. en route to Falls Church, Virginia. She will be accompanied by Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Michael S. Regan. The departure from the White House and arrival at Meridian High School will be pooled press.
At 3:40PM EDT, The Vice President will discuss how the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law investments in clean school buses are ensuring healthier communities and creating American jobs. Remarks are open to pre-credentialed media and will be livestreamed at WhiteHouse.gov/live.
At 4:05PM EDT, The Vice President will depart Falls Church en route to Washington, D.C. The departure from Meridian High School and arrival at the Vice President’s Residence will be closed press.



May 20, 202213:30

VO Supplemental Pool #2 — school bus
FYI: The pool will be riding on an electric school bus from Fairfax County Public schools in the motorcade.



May 20, 202213:50

VP Supplemental Pool #3 — background on trip
On the bus is a folder with a coloring book and info packet about the electric buses. Also we were given a spongy school bus toy. The inside of the school bus has gray seats and there are two seatbelts on each bench.
On Background From White House OfficialToday, Vice President Harris will announce the availability of $500 million in funding from the $5 billion Clean School Bus Program that was established by President Biden’s Bipartisan Infrastructure Law. The announcement will be made by the Vice President during an event at Meridian High School in Falls Church, VA with EPA Administrator Regan and Infrastructure Coordinator Mitch Landrieu.
While at Meridian High School, the Vice President and the group will see electric school buses and receive a briefing from manufacturers, educators, and students – before delivering remarks making the announcement.
School buses are our nation’s largest form of mass transit, with 25 million kids riding one of the nation’s nearly 500,000 school buses each day, nearly all of which are diesel buses that emit millions of tons of greenhouse gases each year. These buses also cause pollution linked to asthma and other health issues that cause students to miss school. But we know that electric and zero-emission school buses eliminate the greenhouse gas and particulate pollution that harm our communities and our planet.
That is why, as a Senator, Vice President Harris led the Clean School Bus Act, the first bill to focus exclusively on zero emission school buses. And since taking office, the Vice President has made it a point to highlight the importance of transitioning to zero-emission vehicles, emphasizing the benefits of good jobs, cleaner air, and reduced costs. As part of this, she visited an electric school bus manufacturer in High Point, North Carolina, met with public transit districts working to electrify their fleets in Cincinnati, Ohio, and Charlotte, North Carolina, visited with an electric semi-truck driver in New York City, and more.
With today’s announcement, $500 million is now available for school districts and other eligible school bus operators and contractors to begin replacing the nation’s fleet of school buses with clean, American-made, zero-emission buses. This $500 million is the first round of funding out of the unprecedented $5 billion investment for low and zero-emission school buses over the next five years, and it represents yet another step the Biden-Harris Administration is taking to invest in American manufacturing, protect the health of our communities, and tackle the climate crisis.



May 20, 202213:54

VP Supplemental Pool #4 — rolling
The VP walked out at 1:52, and looked over at the bus. She got in the motorcade and we started rolling out at 1:53.



May 20, 202214:17

VP Supplemental Pool #5 - Arrived
After a pretty uneventful ride, despite being in a school bus, We arrived about 2:13 to Mary Ellen Henderson Middle School. Did not see VP when we got here.



May 20, 202214:19

VP Supplemental Pool #6 — Some background on buses
Buses were built in High Point, North Carolina. Vice President Harris toured the factory in April when the administration was pushing for the BIF.
The rep from Thomas says the bus is a Fairfax bus, part of the Dominion Program that paid for 50 electric buses in Virginia. 150 of the buses are operating in the US, including at least one in Alaska.
Some more info on the buses from WH and Thomas: The buses can cost up to 300,000 -365,000 per bus with 58K for charging infrastructure. The funding that Vice President Harris is announcing today can cover up to 25 buses and 25 charging stations per applicant. Decision on how many buses applicants get is based off of the Justice 40 criteria including low income, pollution burden and whether it's a tribal school district.



May 20, 202214:58

VP Supplemental Pool #7 — Bus tour and convos
Vice President Harris walked out with Michael Regan and Mitch Landrieu. She greeted three reps for the bus manufacturers. Pool couldn't really hear what they were saying but Vice President Harris could be heard talking about the administration's focus on disparities.
It's about "Taking care of all of our children. ... I'm just so excited about the school buses!"
Harris was moved over to meet with moms from Moms Clean Air Force.
One of the kids who is riding on the buses named Valencia told Harris about riding the old diesel buses:
"Do you smell anything on these buses?" Harris asked the youngest kid Valencia.
"Just the tires."
"Tell me what I need to know," Harris said to the older kid named Alex.
"I think the buses will be amazing for the environment." Kid named Alex.
"That's the thing that you guys are so smart about. Something that is bad and harmful, it doesn't have to be that way. ... how about we change that and make it right?" Harris told the kids.
Harris met with four kids from the schooL and asked them, "Okay teach us what we need to know" One kid says it's about "planet, people profit. These buses are a great example of that."
The second kid talked to Harris about living in Kenya ( his parents work for the state department.) He also talked about how he is optimistic about the
The third kid talked about her class which is building small solar powered cars. She talked to Harris about teamwork and communication while building.
"Wonderful work. I'm very excited about the future of our country!"
Harris grabbed everyone traveling with Harris (all names coming soon.)
Harris got a tour of the bus. Pool was left outside. We're told students were on the bus. She came off at 2:53.
The program has begun. It's being live-streamed.



May 20, 202215:12

VP Supplmental Pool #8 — tour participants
- Administrator Michael Regan, EPA- Mitch Landrieu, Senior Advisor for Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act- Congressman Don Beyer (D-VA-08)- Congressman Gerry Connolly (D-VA-11)- Rebecca Pringle, President of the National Educators Association



May 20, 202215:35

VP Supplemental Pool #9 — full program names/Harris starting
Harris walked out at 3:23.
WH official, everyone who spoke:- Principal Valerie Hardy delivers remarks- President of NEA, Rebecca Pringle delivers remarks- Deputy Secretary Polly Trottenberg delivers remarks- Senior Advisor Mitch Landrieu delivers remarks- Congressman Gerry Connolly delivers remarks- Congressman Don Beyer delivers remarks- Administrator Regan delivers remarks- Marisa Sotelino, Meridian High school student introduces VP- VP Harris
Again, the program is live-streamed.



May 20, 202215:44

VP Supplemental #10 — rolling out
Harris stepped offstage at 3:37. Crowd was made up ofTour participants, handful of students from high school and middle school, local fireman, local law enforcement.
One edit — introducer was
- Marisa Sotelino, Mary Ellen Henderson Middle School. It is on the same campus as Meridian high school
Rolled out at 3:40. And yes we are still riding in the electric school bus.



May 20, 202216:06

VP Supplemental Pool #11 - Back at WH
Arrived at 4:04 back at the White House. VP went to Naval Observatory before event at Kennedy Center.



May 20, 202216:54

VP Supplemental Pool #12 -- at Kennedy Center
We arrived at 4:47 at the Kennedy Center.



May 20, 202218:18

VP Supplemental Pool #13 -- Streaming Link
Hiii -- Harris is expected to take the stage at 6:30, 10 minutes into the program.
Here's the link for the livstream:
https://www.facebook.com/events/488686849719136/
Background from WH
Actor, Daniel Dae Kim will introduce the Vice President.
Participants in the program:- Vice President Kamala Harris- Chairman Shekar Narasimhan, Founder, AAPI Victory Fund- Jeannie Mai, Co-Host, Television host and stylis- Daniel Dae Kim, Actor- President & CEO Brad Jenkins, AAPI Victory Fund- Aasif Mandvi, Actor- Mayor Michelle Wu (D-Boston, MA)- Mayor Aftab Pureval, (D-Cincinnati, OH)- Ari Afsar, Broadway performer- Auli’i Cravalho, Actress and singer- Senator Mazie Hirono (D-HI)- Congressman Andy Kim (D-NJ-03)- Mini Timmaraju, President, National Abortion Rights ActionLeague (NARAL) Pro-Choice America- Beau Sia, Poet- Jose Antonio Vargas, Pulitzer Prize Winning Journalist- Min Jin Lee, Pulitzer Prize Winning Author- Karrueche Tran, Actress- Prabal Gurung, Fashion designer- Phillip Lim, Fashion designer- Tamlyn Tomita, Actress- Melvin Mar, Television and film producer- Bao Nguyen, Filmmaker- Benny Luo, Founder of NextShark.com
BACKGROUND of event from AAPI Victory Fund:
On Friday, May 20, 2022, at 6:15 p.m. ET/3:15 p.m. PT, AAPI Victory Power Fund will host the first-ever AAPI Victory Celebration, followed by the AAPI Next Generation Reception. Vice President Kamala Harris, AAPI leaders, elected officials, artists and community leaders will gather on the one-year anniversary of the signing of the COVID-19 Hate Crimes Act to honor, empower and mobilize the country's fastest-growing voter bloc ahead of this year's midterm elections.
Afterrecord-high voter turnout for the 2020 election, AAPIs were the margin of victory in several key battleground states. It is imperative that the Asian American and Pacific Islander community continue the momentum of showing up and fulfilling their civic duty in the midterms. This event will serve as a launch of the AAPI Victory Power Fund's voter mobilization efforts for the 2022 midterm elections.
AAPI Victory Power Fund's AAPI Victory Celebration will celebrate the political and civic leaders who inspire the AAPI community and the achievements we've accomplished, including the one-year anniversary of the signing of the COVID-19 Hate Crimes Act into law.The AAPI Victory Power Fund is a 501(c)(4) focused on mobilizing Asian American and Pacific Islanders (AAPI) eligible voters and moving them to the ballot box.



May 20, 202218:43

VP Supplemental Pool # 14 - Harris has begun
Harris walked out at 6:40. Again, this is livestreamed at
https://www.facebook.com/events/488686849719136/



May 20, 202218:59

VP Supplemental Pool # 15 -Wrapped
Harris walked off stage at 6:55 and is headed back to the Naval Observatory.
Have a good night and weekend.




  