
    President Donald J. Trump today announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key positions in his Administration:
Annie Caputo of Virginia to be a Member of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission for the remainder of a five-year term expiring June 30, 2021. Ms. Caputo currently serves as senior policy advisor for Chairman John Barrasso (R-WY) on the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee. She also held this position for previous Chairman James Inhofe (R-OK) from 2007 to 2012. From 2005 to 2006 and from 2012 to 2015, Ms. Caputo worked for the House Committee on Energy & Commerce handling nuclear energy issues. Prior to working for the Congress, Ms. Caputo worked as an executive assistant and congressional affairs manager for Exelon Corporation. Ms. Caputo has more than 20 years of experience advising the United States House of Representatives and Senate, and industry on nuclear energy regulation, policy development, legislation, and communications. Ms. Caputo graduated from the University of Wisconsin-Madison with a bachelor's degree in nuclear engineering. Ms. Caputo, her husband, and two children reside in McLean, Virginia.
Michael Arthur Raynor of Maryland to be Ambassador Extraordinary & Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia. Mr. Raynor, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, has served as an American diplomat since 1988. He is currently the Director of the Office of Career Development and Assignments in the Bureau of Human Resources of the Department of State. A former Ambassador and senior official at the State Department, Mr. Raynor is known for his Africa policy expertise leadership of interagency teams in high-threat environments. He has served at eight United States Missions overseas, including six in Africa. Mr. Raynor earned a M.I.A. from Columbia University and a B.A. from Lafayette College. He speaks French and Italian.
Kristine L. Svinicki of Virginia to be a Member of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission for a five-year term expiring June 30, 2022 and to designate her as Chair. Ms. Svinicki currently serves as a member of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, having been confirmed as a member of the Commission in 2008, renominated to a second term in 2012, and designated as the Commission's Chair by President Trump in January of 2017. Before this, she served in various staff positions in the United States Senate, including as a Professional Staff Member for the Committee on Armed Services, with a concentration on defense science and technology policy and the atomic energy defense activities of the Departments of Energy and Defense. Previously, she worked as a nuclear engineer in the United States Department of Energy's Washington headquarters and its Idaho Operations Office. Earlier in her career, she was an energy engineer with the State of Wisconsin, Public Service Commission in Madison, Wisconsin. Ms. Svinicki graduated from the University of Michigan and currently resides in Falls Church, Virginia.
David Wright of South Carolina to be a Member of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission for the remainder of a five-year term expiring June 30, 2020. Mr. Wright is currently the President of Wright Directions, LLC, a strategic consulting and communications business in the energy sector. Mr. Wright previously served as a member and Chairman of the South Carolina Public Service Commission (SCPSC) from 2004-2013. He was elected to serve as President of the National Association of Regulatory Utility Commissioners (NARUC) for 2011-2012. Mr. Wright has owned and operated several different businesses, and served as a councilman, Mayor and a member of the South Carolina House of Representatives. A colon cancer survivor, Mr. Wright is active as an advocate for colon cancer awareness and education and is frequently asked to share his message with groups around the country. He received his bachelor's degree from Clemson University. Mr. Wright has four children and three grandchildren. He resides in Columbia, South Carolina.
  