
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
May 5
In the afternoon, the President traveled to Mexico City, Mexico, arriving in the evening.
The President announced his intention to nominate Richard Sklar to serve as U.S. Representative to the United Nations for U.N. Management and Reform at the State Department, with rank of Ambassador.
May 6
In the evening, the President met separately with Mexican opposition leaders Felipe de Jesus Calderon Hinjosa, president, National Action Party (PAN), Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador, president, Party of the Democratic Revolution (PRD), and Humberto Roque Villanueva, president, Institutional Revolutionary Party (PRI), in the Castillo Room of El Presidente Intercontinental Hotel.
Later, the President and Hillary Clinton attended a cultural presentation at the Palacio de Belles Artes with President Ernesto Zedillo of Mexico and Mrs Anilda Zedillo.
The President announced his intention to nominate Jackie M. Clegg as First Vice President and Vice Chairman of the Export-Import Bank of the United States.
The President announced his intention to nominate James A. Harmon as President and Chairman of the Export-Import Bank of the United States.
The President announced his intention to nominate Kathy Karpan as Director of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior.
The President announced his intention to nominate Patrick A. Shea as Director of the Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior.
May 7
In the afternoon, the President and Hillary Clinton traveled to Tlaxcala and Teotihuacan, Mexico. In the evening, they returned to Mexico City.
Later, the President and Hillary Clinton traveled to San Jose, Costa Rica.
May 8
In the morning, the President visited the Museum of Costa Rican Art.
The White House announced that the President will give commencement addresses at Morgan State University in Baltimore, MD, May 18; West Point, May 31; and the University of California-San Diego, June 14.
May 9
In the afternoon, the President and Hillary Clinton traveled to Bridgetown, Barbados.
The White House announced that in connection with his trip to The Netherlands May 28 for the U.S.-European Union summit and the commemoration of the 50th anniversary of the Marshall plan, the President accepted an invitation to meet with newly elected Prime Minister Tony Blair of the United Kingdom in London.
  