
    The President today announced his intention to appoint Lois Haight Herrington to be Chairman and Executive Director of the White House Conference for a Drug Free America. This is a new position.
Mrs. Herrington served as Assistant Attorney General of the United States, March 1983-October 1986. She headed the Office of Justice Programs in the Department of Justice and previously served as Chairman of the President's Task Force on Victims of Crime, which issued its final report in January 1983. Mrs. Herrington serves as the President's National Correspondent to the United Nations Congress on the Prevention of Crime and Treatment of Offenders. She is also coordinator and a member of the President's Child Safety Partnership. Mrs. Herrington is a member of the National Sheriffs Association's Standards, Ethics, Education, and Training Committee and a member of the Advisory Board of Crime Stoppers International. She is also a member of the Advisory Committee on Rape Prevention and Control and the National Advisory Board on Child Abuse and Neglect, both of the Department of Health and Human Services; and a member of the Victims Committee, Criminal Justice Section, of the American Bar Association. Mrs. Herrington served as chairman of the National Crime Prevention Coalition, a member of the Federal Coordinating Council on Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention and the Advisory Board of the National Institute of Corrections. She recently served as a member of the United States delegation to the seventh United Nations Congress on the Prevention of Crime and Treatment of Offenders in Milan, Italy, and a member of the U.S. delegation to the United Nations Decade for Women in Nairobi, Kenya. Mrs. Herrington is a member of numerous professional organizations.
Mrs. Herrington graduated from the University of California, Davis (A.B., 1961) and the University of California, Hastings College of the Law (LL.B. and J.D., 1965). She is married, has two children, and resides in Arlington, VA.
  