
    South Carolina Superdelegate Endorses Barack Obama
South Carolina Democratic Party Vice Chair Endorses Obama
Chicago, IL - Today, Wilber Lee Jeffcoat, the Democratic Party Vice Chair in South Carolina and superdelegate endorsed Barack Obama.
Jeffcoat is the 269th superdelegate to endorse Barack Obama. Obama is 162 delegates away from securing the Democratic nomination.
His statement is below:
"Barack Obama inspired thousands of new voters in my state of South Carolina to get involved in our democratic process and I am proud to announce my endorsement today. With Barack Obama as our nominee, we can bring more and more new voters out to become involved and have their voices heard. Obama has worked his whole life to unite people from all backgrounds and walks of life for change, he has done that in this campaign and he will continue to do that as President. I am excited to join his campaign today."
#######
Hawaii Congresswoman Mazie Hirono Endorses Barack Obama
Chicago, IL - Today, Hawaii Congresswoman Mazie Hirono announced her support for Barack Obama today, citing his ability to unite the Democratic Party and bring about real change:
"Today I announce my endorsement of Senator Barack Obama for President of the United States. I do so after watching these historic campaigns unfold across our country, where hundreds of thousands of people participated as never before. It is clear that Americans want our country back on a course of hope and opportunity.
I make my announcement with deep respect and admiration for Hillary Clinton. She is an extraordinary woman. However, it is time to unite the party behind Senator Obama and to use our energy and resources to defeat Senator John McCain. Barack Obama can unite our Party and our country and bring about the positive changes Americans want.
Of course, all of us are especially proud of Senator Obama's deep roots here in our state, and overwhelmingly embraced his candidacy in our recent caucus. His love for Hawaii and understanding of its diversity have given him a foundation for understanding the diversity of our country. I am proud to endorse Senator Obama and I look forward to a winning campaign."
"As a native of Hawaii, it means so much to have Rep. Mazie Hirono's support," said Senator Obama. "She has worked tirelessly to help America and Hawaii achieve energy independence and to reduce our dependency on foreign oil. She has also been a leader in working to improve the economy and to create good-paying jobs. Rep. Hirono embraces the kind of change we need in Washington, and I look forward to working closely with her."
Hirono is the 271st superdelegate to endorse Barack Obama. Obama is 160 delegates away from securing the Democratic nomination.
  