
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
May 12 [iii]1
The President announced his intention to appoint Thomas L. Blair to the Advisory Board of the National Air and Space Museum.
The President selected the following individuals to serve as delegates to the White House Conference on Small Business: Peggy Hernandez Anastos; George A. Beach; Kenneth C. Blair, Jr.; Roderick Blount; William D. Budinger; C. Michael Davenport; Tony Davidow; Ned Densmore; Kenneth Eakes; Sandra Fowler; Betty Franklin-Hammonds; Zdenka Gast; John Paul Giere; Marina Grant; R. Alan Hall; Betty Hall; Ada S. Hollingsworth; Nat Hyman; Morris Kaplan; Michael W. Kempner; Phyllis Gutierrez Kenney; William C. Kimball; Sandra K. Lee; Carmen Orta; Indira B. Patel; Wayne Patrick; Derron Pierson; Alice Rickel; Barbara Serna; Donald J. Sterhan; Soundra Johnson Temple; Mary Touris; Carolyn Warner; Robert A. Weygand; Alan L. White; Phyllis Williams; Edward Zetick; and George Zoffinger.
The President declared a major disaster in the State of Mississippi and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms, tornadoes, and flooding beginning May 8.
May 13
In the morning, the President and Hillary Clinton went to Camp David, MD, for the weekend.
May 14
In the evening, the President and Hillary Clinton returned to the White House from Camp David.
May 15
In the morning, the President met with Foreign Minister Farouk al-Shara of Syria.
May 16
In the afternoon, the President received diplomatic credentials from Ambassadors Fernando Andresen Guimaraes of Portugal and Juergen Chrobog of Germany. He then met with delegates from the U.S.-Mexico Binational Commission.
The White House announced the President has invited President Ernesto Zedillo of Mexico for a state visit on October 10.
The President announced his intention to appoint Gov. Roy Romer of Colorado as a member of the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation.
The President announced his intention to appoint the following individuals to the National Security Telecommunications Advisory Committee: Stanley C. Beckelman; Bobby A. Boaldin; Louis V. Gerstner, Jr.; Arthur E. Johnson; Donald J. Schuenke; and Martin A. Stein.
May 17
In the morning, the President traveled to White Plains, MD, where he was given a demonstration of a school-to-work project at Automated Graphic Systems. He returned to Washington, DC, in the afternoon.
May 18
In the afternoon, the President hosted a lunch for President Robert Mugabe of Zimbabwe in the Old Family Dining Room.
The President announced his intention to appoint James H. Bilbray to be a member of the U.S. Military Academy Board of Visitors.
The President announced his intention to appoint Robert B. Shapiro to be a member of the Advisory Committee for Trade Policy and Negotiations.
The President announced his intention to nominate Maria Luisa M. Haley to a new term as a member of the Board of Directors of the Export-Import Bank of the United States.
May 19
In the late afternoon, the President and Hillary Clinton hosted a reception for the Labor Department's Women's Bureau on the South Lawn.
The President nominated John D. Hawke, Jr., of New York, as Under Secretary of the Treasury for Domestic Finance.
The President announced his intention to nominate George J. Tenet to be Deputy Director of Central Intelligence.
The President announced his intent to appoint Randall Franke to the Advisory Commission on Intergovernmental Relations.
The President announced his selection of an additional 17 individuals to serve as delegates to the White House Conference on Small Business, June 11-15. The additional delegates are: Thomas A. Antoon; Anthony A. Armstrong; Thomas Baker; Richard Bertsch; Darwin Bromley; Paul Condit; Margarita R. Delgado; Darlene D. Drake; Patrick Geho; Carolyn Jean Hawks; Lance Herndon; Sam Kapourales; John R. McKeehan; Jeffrey Newbauer; Robert J. Shell; Orna Shulman; and Richard J. Whouley.
  