
    Ladies and gentlemen:
Mrs. Nixon and I are delighted to welcome this interparliamentary group, our friends from Mexico. In welcoming you, I can only say that we think it is rather historic that this is the first official group to be received in this house since probably the most famous room in the house, the Blue Room, has been restored and redecorated.
It could not be better to have guests from a country which is so very close to us, not only physically but spiritually, the people of Mexico, representatives of the Parliament of Mexico.
As you know, we are looking forward to welcoming the President of Mexico for a state dinner in the middle of June, after I return from my trip abroad. I can say that we consider presidents of any country very important people, but I know from my relationships with the Congress, the Senate and the House, that Senators and Congressmen are also very important people, and we welcome you in that spirit, because Presidents can have understandings between each other, but unless they have the support of members of their legislatures, they will not be able to carry out those understandings.
The fact that we have such a close and friendly relationship between our Senators and your Senators, and our Representatives and your Representatives, means that not only--and this is true-the President of Mexico and the President of the United States are personally and officially good friends, but the legislators that represent Mexico and the United States are also good friends. That means friendship--friendship now, friendship in the future between Mexico and the United States.
Finally, in conclusion, I would like to say to all of our friends that we will be receiving you and greeting each of you personally at the entrance to the State Dining Room. In that room, you will see there is only one portrait, the portrait of Abraham Lincoln.
It is significant, as members of your delegation, the leaders of your delegation presented a medal commemorating the Year of Juarez, and this is the Year of Juarez in Mexico, that Juarez and Lincoln were contemporaries, that they corresponded with each other. Juarez was not only a great man, a great Mexican, but a great leader of the world. Lincoln, we believe, not only was a great American, but a great leader of the world.
And may the spirit of Juarez and the spirit of Lincoln guide the relations between our two great countries in all the years ahead. And from now on, estan ustcdes en su casa.
[At this point, Enrique Olivares Santana, President of the Mexican Senate, addressed the delegates in Spanish. A translation of his remarks is printed in the Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents (vol. 8, p. 869). President Nixon then resumed speaking.]
Thank you very much, Senator. Now Mrs. Nixon and I will look forward to receiving all of you who can work it into your schedule, down the hall, before going into the State Dining Room for refreshments.
I, incidentally, should take note of one fact: When the Ambassador arrived he thought he was late, but he was right on time, but Ambassadors always want to be 15 minutes early. He said, "The trouble was, I was not on the list and they didn't let me come in the gate."
I want everybody in this room to know that the Ambassador from Mexico is always on our list, and from now on he always comes in this gate.
We have some mementos for the Senators and for the Members of the Congress, as well as their wives, just little things for you to take back. The aide will give them to you as you leave the dining room.
Thank you.
  