
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
May 22
The President announced the nomination of Dwight P. Robinson as Deputy Secretary of the Department of Housing and Urban Development.
The President announced his intention to reappoint Jean Kennedy Smith to the Board of Trustees of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts.
The White House announced that the President will meet with President Jacques Chirac of the European Council, and President Jacques Santer of the European Commission, at a summit on June 14 in Washington, DC.
May 24
In the afternoon, the President and Hillary Clinton hosted a tea for King Juan Carlos and Queen Sophia of Spain in the Yellow Oval Room.
The President announced his intention to appoint Rose Dobrof to the Federal Council on the Aging.
The President nominated Linda L. Robertson of Washington, DC, to be Assistant Secretary of the Treasury for Legislative Affairs.
The President announced his intention to nominate Peggy A. Nagae to be a member of the Civil Liberties Public Education Fund Board of Directors.
May 25
The President announced the appointment of Richard Nuccio as Special Adviser to the President and Secretary of State for Cuba.
The President named Melvin E. Clark, Jr., and Charles A. Docter to the Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation Board of Directors.
May 26
The President declared a major disaster in South Dakota and ordered Federal funds to supplement State and local recovery efforts in communities struck by severe storms, flooding, and ground saturation due to high water tables, beginning March 1.
The President announced his intention to appoint Phyllis Middleton Jackson to the Board of Trustees of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts.
The President announced the appointment of Joyce Lashof to be Chair and the following individuals to be members of the Presidential Advisory Committee on Gulf War Veterans' Illnesses: John Baldeschwieler; Arthur Caplan; Donald Custis; Frederick M. Franks, Jr.; David A. Hamburg; James A. Johnson; Marguerite Knox; Philip Landrigan; Elaine L. Larson; Rolando Rios; and Andrea Kidd Taylor.
The President announced he has selected the following individuals to serve as delegates to the White House Conference on Small Business to be held in Washington, DC, on June 11-15: Sarah Barela; John Burgess; Robert Calcaterra; Lorrie J. Carey; Mary Ann Carlson; Barbara L. Cash; Audrey L. Davis; Deborah D. Dolman; Charles J. Dorame; Sue Ling Gin; Omar M. Kader; Kathy Kemp; Nadine Mathis; Urban Miyares; Ann L. Mulholland; Kathy Neal; Harry Posey; Barbara Skelton; Edward I. Weisiger, Jr.; and Buck W. Wong.
  