
    Pool Reports by Meridith McGraw, New York Post



Sent:
Reports:




 May 18, 2020 10:53

 WH Pool Report #1 - Good morning 
Good morning from the White House –
Today President Trump has one public event on his schedule, a roundtable with restaurant executives and industry leaders at 2pm in the State Dining Room.
At 4pm the president and first lady have a teleconference with governors in the Situation Room but that is closed to press.
I'll keep you posted if there are any changes or updates.
By the way, Kevin Hassett took reporter questions from the West Wing driveway earlier this morning. CSPAN video here: https://www.c-span.org/video/?472247-1/kevin-hassett-tells-reporters-eco...


 May 18, 2020 13:03

 WH Pool Report #2 - Called to briefing room doors 
The pool was just called to gather briefing room doors. We are heading to the Cabinet room.
More info TK. 


 May 18, 2020 13:21

 WH Pool Report #3 - Opportunity Zones 
Pool was called to the Cabinet Room for a meeting on Opportunity Zones. This was not on our schedule. POTUS did not take Qs.
Sen. Tim Scott began by thanking the president for his support and work on opportunity zones.
President Trump noted the markets are up and said there's progress on vaccines.
"When you lose one person to this it is too many" Trump said. "It should have been stopped in China and stopped at the source."
"This feels much different than Friday...this is a very positive day," Trump said.
Dr. Carson said he's focused on getting at the underlying causes of disparities in who is effected by the virus.
Turner, the Exec Director of WH Opp Zones talked about his mission and said certain communities have been hit hard from COVID.
Carson slid a report across the table he called "good reading."
Trump congratulated Brooke Rollins on her new job.
Kudlow said there are "little glimmers of hope" in the economy.
A few participants sitting around the table: Kushner, Scott Turner, President Trump, Sen Scott, Chris Liddell, Dan Scavino, Kayleigh McEnany, Ben Carson, Brooke Rollins, Larry Kudlow... 


 May 18, 2020 14:14

 WH Pool Report #4 - Waiting for restaurant meeting 
The pool is waiting for the restaurant execs meeting to begin in the Red Room. In the meantime, details on the roundtable from the WH below
Today, President Donald J. Trump will lead a roundtable discussion with restaurant executives and industry leaders in the State Dining Room of the White House to discuss the path forward to safely reopen their businesses and facilities.
 The following individuals are expected to attend:
 The White House
President Donald J. Trump Vice President Mike Pence Mark Meadows, Assistant to the President and White House Chief of Staff  Jared Kushner, Assistant to the President and Senior Advisor  Larry Kudlow, Assistant to the President for Economic Policy  Ivanka Trump, Assistant to the President and Advisor to the President  Brooke Rollins, Assistant to the President and Director of the Domestic Policy Council  Tim Pataki, Deputy Assistant to the President and Director of the Office of Public Liaison  Kevin Hassett, Senior Advisor for the National Economic Council
Trump Administration
Secretary Steven Mnuchin, Department of the Treasury Secretary Gene Scalia, Department of Labor
External Participants
James Bodenstedt, President & CEO, MUY Companies Jose Cil, CEO, Restaurant Brands International  Niren Chaudhary, CEO, Panera Bread  Sean Feeney, Co-Founder, Grovehouse  Tilman Fertitta, Chairman & CEO, Landry's Inc.  Will Guidara, Independent Restaurant Coalition, Restauranteur, Eleven Madison Park Marvin Irby, Interim CEO, National Restaurant Association  Thomas Keller, Chef & Owner, Thomas Keller Restaurant Group  Tim Love, Chef & Owner, Love Style Inc.  Melvin Rodrigue, President & CEO, Galatoire's Restaurants 


 May 18, 2020 17:04

 WH Travel Pool #5 - At restaurant roundtable, POTUS says he's taking hydroxychloroquine 
President Trump was asked about investigating Obama, Biden, Peter Navarro saying the CDC let the country down, the firing of the State IG, not participating in the World Health Assembly, funding of WHO, and the HHS whistleblower, among other things…
The major headline, although there were a few, is that President Trump announced, unprompted, that he has been taking hydroxychloroquine for the past week and a half. It came after talking about the HHS whistleblower who raised questions about hydroxychloroquine.
"You'd be surprised at how many people are taking it, especially the front-line workers before you catch it. The front-line workers -- many, many are taking it. I happen to be taking it. I happen to be taking it -- Hydroxychloroquine," Trump said.
Reporters asked "hydroxychloroquine?" "when?" "now?"
"Right now, yeah. A couple of weeks ago, I started taking it. I've heard a lot of good stories. And if it is not good, I will tell you right. I'm not going to get hurt by it. It has been around for 40 years for malaria, for lupus, for other things. I take it," he said.
The president said that he asked the WH physician about the drug and said he would like to take it. The president said that he has had zero symptoms and he has been taking the pill every day.
When asked about evidence it works, Trump replied "Here we go. Are you ready? Here's my evidence. I get a lot of positive calls about it. The only negative I heard -- was at the VA? People that aren't big Trump fans."
The president talked about the letters and calls he has received about the drug from doctors, referring to one physician from Westchester, NY. He said he'd provide the letter.
"I was just waiting to see your eyes light up when I said this. When I announced this. Yeah, I've taken it for 1 and a half weeks now. And I'm still here. I'm still here," Trump said.
A few other things --
On AG Barr: "Obama knew everything that was happening…No doubt they were involved in this hoax...it was a take down of a president and in my opinion."
On Navarro saying CDC let the country down: "I think they work very hard…I will say they originally had no test, and one of the tests had a problem early on and that was quickly remedied…"
On WHO: "I chose not to make a statement today. I will be giving them a statement sometime in the near future. I chose not to give a statement. I think Dave done a very sad job. In the United States pays them $450 million a year. They are a puppet of China."
On State Dept Inspector General firing and allegations Pompeo was under investigation for staffers running errands, Saudi Arms deal: "I never heard of him. But I was asked to by the State Department, by Mike."
"I don't know anything about it. I heard about at the same time maybe you heard about it. I don't know anything about it. Do you mean that he is under investigation because he had someone walk his dog from the government? I don't know. I don't think it sounds like that important…. Maybe he's negotiating with Kim Jong Un, okay, about nuclear weapons. They say, please, can you walk my dog? You mind walking my dog? I'm talking to KJU or President XI. Please walk my dog. To who? Secret service person or somebody, right? I don't know. I think this country has a long way to go. The priorities are really screwed up when I read this. I don't know anything about the investigation."
On Obama's comments this weekend: "I think he is incompetent president. I think President Obama was one of the worst president in the history of our country."
NOTES FROM THE ROUNDTABLE PORTION --President Trump said the restaurant industry has been tremendously impacted.
After Jose Cil of Restaurant Brands International briefly spoke, the president chimed in saying that today was a "big day."
"This was a very big day therapeutically, vaccine wise and cure wise," Trump said.
"Some big announcements are coming or have just come out," Trump said.
Trump said he imagines companies are doing better today than a week ago.
Larry Kudlow said they're working hard on tax deductions and liability restrictions for their next relief package.
Kevin Hassett said credit card data is going up — "the country is getting back now and there is great reason for optimism." He acknowledged how bad his outlook was for the economy just a few weeks ago.
Marvin Irby from the National Restaurant Association praised the administrations response to the struggles of the restaurant industry.
Irby asked for the admin to extend the time to spend proceeds from the PPP. He asked for a 24 wk minimum (instead of 8wks).
Restaurant execs were unified on extending it to 24 wks to get restaurants open/rehire.
Mnuchin asked for a clarification: they want 24 weeks to spend the money they were allotted in PPP for 8wks.
Trump quizzed the room on payroll tax which the room also supported.
The president said that Democrats don't want to give liability protection but he said "we'll get it anyway."
The president asked how many restaurants there are and was amazed there are 650,000. He also asked about basketball to Fertittia who owns the Rockets.
Scalia spoke and Trump asked Sec Scalia to "help the truckers."
Trump asked if it's true LA won't reopen til August which he called a "death wish"... "there is death on both sides," referring to the economy and public health.
Thomas Keller who owns some fabulous restaurants I have heard, told Trump about his business and explained to the president how the taste in butter changes by the season.
"That's fantastic," Trump said, and seemed very interested. 


 May 18, 2020 18:21

 WH Pool Report #6 - Lid 
At 6:12pm we have a travel photo lid.
To clarify from my last note, the president said he is taking both hydroxychloroquine and zinc daily as a preventative measure. He also said he took a Z-pack initially. He said he is tested regularly for COVID-19 and results have all been negative.
I have asked for the White House to provide the letter the president volunteered to share from the Westchester physician and any additional information about the president's use of hydroxychloroquine. 


 May 18, 2020 19:39

 WH Pool Report #7 - Governors briefing readout 
>From Judd Deere —
 Readout from the May 18, 2020 Governors Briefing on Covid-19 Response & Ensuring the Well-Being of All Americans:
Today, President Donald J. Trump, First Lady Melania Trump, and Vice President Mike Pence led a discussion with the chief executives of approximately 50 States, territories, and the city of Washington, DC, and the White House Coronavirus Task Force to discuss best practices from governors and continue the dialogue on the important partnership with our Nation's governors on COVID-19 response, recovery, and ensuring the well-being of all Americans.
The First Lady and other federal participants highlighted the need for supporting our most vulnerable children and families with the necessary mental health and substance use disorder resources along with asking Governors to ensure the physical safety and well-being of children around the Nation. Not only has the virus caused immense physical suffering and loss for many people, it has also resulted in mental and emotional hardship for adults and children. Coronavirus has also highlighted the critical need for all children and youth, including those in foster care, to have safe, stable homes.
Through the BE BEST Initiative the First Lady has championed many successful well-being programs that provide children with the tools and skills required for emotional, social, and physical health. In addition, the President has declared May 2020 as National Mental Health Awareness Month and has called on Americans to support citizens suffering from mental illnesses, raise awareness of mental health conditions through appropriate programs and activities, and commit our Nation to innovative prevention, diagnosis, and treatment.
In addition to the President, First Lady, and Vice President, Governors heard from White House Coronavirus Coordinator Dr. Birx and Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) Administrator Verma provided an update on States expanding their entire testing ecosystem, including testing in nursing homes. Health and Human Services (HHS) Secretary Azar provided an update on a vaccine development through Project Warp Speed and additional Remdesivir distribution, and Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) Administrator Gaynor provided an update on distribution of personal protective equipment supplies distribution including to over 15,000 nursing homes.
Since January 2020, the Trump Administration has held over 245 briefings – including 19 governors' briefings – with over 110,000 State, local, and tribal participants.
 Expected Federal Participants
·     President Donald J. Trump ·     First Lady Melania Trump ·     Vice President Mike Pence ·     Ambassador Deborah Birx, M.D., White House Coronavirus Task Force Coordinator  ·    Secretary Alex Azar, Department of Health & Human Services (HHS) ·     Administrator Seema Verma, Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS), HHS ·     Administrator Pete Gaynor, Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) ·    Director Robert Redfield, M.D., Centers for Disease Control & Prevention (CDC) ·    Dr. Tony Fauci, M.D., Director, National Institute of Allergy & Infectious Diseases, HHS ·     Ellie McCance-Katz, M.D., Ph.D., Assistant Secretary for Mental Health and Substance Use, HHS ·     Mark Meadows, Assistant to the President & Chief of Staff ·     Marc Short, Assistant to the President & Chief of Staff to the Vice President ·     Dan Scavino, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff for Communications ·     Kellyanne Conway, Assistant to the President & Senior Counselor ·    Brooke Rollins, Assistant to the President & Acting Director, Domestic Policy Council (DPC) ·    Emma Doyle, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff, Office of the First Lady ·     Admiral Brett Giroir, M.D. Assistant Secretary for Health, HHS ·    Rear Admiral John Polowczyk, Joint Chiefs of Staff, Department of Defense (DOD) ·    Doug Hoelscher, Deputy Assistant to the President & Director, IGA ·     Nic Pottebaum, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director, IGA 



  