
    Pool Reports by Erin Logan, Los Angeles Times 



Sent:
Reports:




May 6, 202214:55 EDT

VPOTUS Supplemental Travel Pool Report #1: Checking in
Hello from Joint Base Andrews.
I will be your print pooler this weekend for VP Harris' trip to Nashville where she will give Tennessee State University's commencement address Saturday morning (central time). We have completed sweeps and are awaiting VPOTUS' arrival in the terminal.
Feel free to reach out with any questions.



May 6, 202215:31 EDT

VP Travel Pool Report #2: Arrival to JBA
Hello again.
VPOTUS' motorcade arrived to JBA at 3:27 EDT.
Harris did not stop to talk with the press. She waved and ascended AF2 at 3:29.
We will be wheels up momentarily.



May 6, 202215:46 EDT

VP Travel Pool Report #3: AF2 wheels up
Before leaving, VPOTUS came to the back to speak with reporters OTR for about 5 mins.
We're wheels up for Nashville International Airport at 3:45 EDT.
See y'all in a bit!
On Background from a WH Official:
Greeting with the Vice President on arrival at Joint Base Andrews:Lieutenant Colonel Richard Hulun, 89thMaintenance Group
Traveling with the Vice President en route Nashville, TN:Lorraine Voles, Senior Advisor to the Vice PresidentMichael Collins, Director of the Office of Public Engagement and Intergovernmental Affairs for the Vice PresidentKirsten Allen, Press Secretary to the Vice President



May 6, 202217:03 CDT

VP Travel Pool Report #4: VPOTUS arrives in Nashville, rolling to RON
AF2 had wheels down at Nashville International Airport at 4:37pm CDT (please note time zone change).
It's a little rainy, windy and about 67 degrees Fahrenheit.
Harris exited AF2 at 4:53pm CDT. She did not stop to speak with press and instead spoke with members of the Tennessee national guard and their family. Your pool found it difficult to hear her over the plane engines. She posed for a picture with these members and their family.
She then entered the motorcade at 4:59, which began rolling at 5:01 en route to RON.
Greeting with the Vice President on arrival at Berry Field Air National Guard Base:
Colonel Grace Gibbs, Commander, 118th Medical Group



May 6, 202217:19 CDT

VP Supplemental Travel Pool Report #5: VPOTUS at RON+lid
Pool dropped off VP at RON around 5:17 CDT. Pool did not see VPOTUS exit the motorcade. We had an uneventful ride. Per an official, Harris has no more scheduled events. See y'all bright and early tomorrow morning.
Some details from the airport—
Other members of the pool overheard Harris speaking with Tennessee National Guard members and their children about how military service is a sacrifice for families. "I always like to meet future leaders," she said to the kids present, according to other travel pool members.




  