
    "On every issue that the old guard of the Republican Party would have shied away from in a New York minute, I'm not only leaning into them, I'm winning against the media and against the left"
Governor Ron DeSantis joined Eric Bolling on Newsmax last night to discuss his presidential campaign announcement and vision for Our Great American Comeback. During the wide-ranging interview, DeSantis highlighted his record of accomplishments in Florida, and made the case as to why he's the best choice for Republicans in 2024.
Watch the full interview HERE.
HIGHLIGHTSGovernor DeSantis on winning:
"I wasn't exactly a pale pastel. I've been bold colors. I've stood strong for what we believe in, I never wilted under pressure. And yet people responded to that. So I think you want to have somebody who can draw people in, who may not have traditionally been Republicans, and are willing to give us a shot. I think a lot of people realize that Biden is a failure, but I think they're looking for a vehicle that they'll be comfortable getting behind. And I think I could coalesce a pretty good number of people to be able to do that. I do believe that there's a limit to the number of voters that would consider the former president at this point. I mean, we've seen it. You know, in Florida, we've seen in places like Georgia. I think that there are some people that don't like Biden, but they would like another option. So I think my ceiling is higher in a general election."Governor DeSantis on the policy differences between him and President Trump:
"I think that some of the things he's been attacking me on, I've been a little surprised at because he's attacking me from the left. And that really wasn't that Donald Trump from 2015 and 2016. I mean, he was a hard charger, leaning in on all the issues, very edgy on conservative issues. And it was part of the reason he did so well. But when he's taken Disney's side against me, I just kind of wonder, like, okay, I get he wants to hit me, but don't take the side of a multinational corporation that wants to sexualize kids. He's also hitting me against voting against immigration amnesty. There was the Goodlatte to bill in 2018, and he said that that is akin to voting against the wall, but that bill was a 2 million person amnesty for illegal aliens, very little money for any border security. All conservatives opposed it. He did support it as president, which a lot of us were upset about. But to hit me for taking the America first position I just think is a little strange. So I'm not sure what his strategy is, but I think he's taking positions that are a little bit different than four or five years ago."Governor DeSantis on the those falsely attacking him as an "establishment Republican":
*"How many establishment Republicans would have sent illegal aliens to Martha's Vineyard? How many establishment Republicans would have stood up against Disney? How many establishment Republicans would have signed the bill that I just signed to ban land purchases from people affiliated with the CCP in the state of Florida? We're now being sued by the ACLU for that. How many establishment Republicans would have leaned in to support our children against the pronoun Olympics? We banned the pronoun Olympics in our schools -- we're the first state to do that. How many establishment Republicans would have banned gender transition surgeries for minors? We not only would take the doctor's medical license, we'll put the doctor in jail if they are mutilating minors. So on every issue that the old guard of the Republican Party would have shied away from in a New York minute, I'm not only leaning into them, I'm winning against the media and against the left. We say Florida is the place where woke goes to die because we've defeated the left on all these fronts. And my pledge if I'm elected president, after two terms, we will leave woke ideology in the dustbin of history." *Governor DeSantis on the Politico hit piece on First Lady Casey DeSantis:
"These are people that are bottom of the barrel type folks. And all they're trying to do is character assassination. They use anonymous sources. They use people that don't even know Casey to try to smear her. But the reason they're doing it is because they know she's an incredibly strong woman. She's a wonderful wife and my best friend, great mother, but she's made a huge difference in the state of Florida. But the left and the media know, people love her. She's revered in this state. She is a potent political ally. When she's out in a place like Iowa with me, people rave about her. And so they fear her because they know that she's somebody that's very effective. So we both take it in stride, just in the sense that when you're over the target, that is when they're going to be shooting at you. And they're not going after other candidate's spouses because they don't view those spouses as a threat. And so she has taken it in good stride."
  