
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

As we enter the last decade of the 20th century, it is fitting that we prepare to do business -- global business -- in the 21st. Because our participation in international trade has become essential to the Nation's strength and prosperity, it must continue to increase.
The prospects for expanded U.S. participation in world trade are improving dramatically. Nearly 500 years ago, the historic journey of Christopher Columbus helped to launch the exploration and development of a vast portion of the globe. Today the winds of change are leading us into uncharted areas of business and commercial opportunity. New markets are emerging, markets that will affect the social and economic development of entire nations.
The triumph of democratic ideals and the emergence of free market principles around the world are creating tremendous opportunities, not only for peoples who once suffered under the centralized planning of Marxist-Leninist regimes, but also for American business and industry. As more and more countries establish market systems and entrepreneurial economics, the American private sector can help to foster desperately needed innovation and flexibility. The U.S. Government is already committed to promoting free enterprise in those countries and to opening their markets to American business.
At the Uruguay Round of trade negotiations with 97 other countries, the United States is seeking the freer movement of goods, services, and capital across national boundaries. We are working diligently to bring those negotiations to a successful conclusion by the end of the year. In the United States itself, we are equally committed to building and maintaining an economic environment that is favorable to trade and to improving our ability to compete. However, the United States Government can only provide the setting; the actual work must be done by individual business men and women. Toughened in recent years by fierce competition on a global scale, these Americans know that protectionism is not a means to progress and prosperity. Rather, U.S. business leaders have strengthened and renewed their commitment to excellence.
The owners, managers, and employees of American companies and farms know that improving their competitiveness requires the production of consistently high quality products and services that will attract buyers in every country. A growing number of U.S. firms are engaged in extensive efforts to enhance the quality of their operations through thoughtful, self-critical assessment and hard work. Still, we have only scratched the surface. We need to do much more in our national quest for excellence.
In today's highly competitive global economy, Americans must pursue export sales with the same energy and enthusiasm they devote to sales in this country. They can and should move quickly to take advantage of opportunities overseas. The risks are sometimes great, but the rewards are always enjoyed by many: companies benefit from profits and growth; workers benefit from more jobs; consumers benefit from a greater variety of goods and services at lower prices. The entire population gains.
The global flowering of freedom, the expansion of world markets, and the critical stage of the Uruguay Round make this World Trade Week an especially important one. I call on all Americans to respond to the challenge.
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush, President of the United States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim the week beginning May 20, 1990, as World Trade Week. I call upon the people of the United States to observe this week with appropriate programs, ceremonies, and activities.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-third day of May, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fourteeth.

GEORGE BUSH
  