
    Ladies and gentlemen, boys and girls:
We appreciate very much your coming here on this beautiful day to welcome us to your great State. Governor Rhodes, you have certainly turned out a warm and enthusiastic group of people. I always enjoy coming to Ohio. I know that we will profit from what we see and what we hear today.
Our time is limited. I wish I could shake hands with each of you, but since I can't, I want you to know that we wish you the very best, that we have come here to try to make this a better State, to try to build this into a better Nation. We must do that with the support of good people like you who love your country, men and women like you who supply the boys who wear the uniform that keeps our country safe.
We are doing reasonably well in the prosperity picture today and we have to keep it up in the future. We have an Appalachia program we presented to the Congress which includes your great State of Ohio. We think it will bring benefits to your State and to your people. We have come here to learn firsthand something about the conditions.
We will report back to Washington tomorrow and we hope before this session of Congress is over we can have passed an Appalachia bill, a poverty bill, a medical care bill, a civil rights bill, a food stamp bill, a housing bill, and measures that will take care of the people generally. When you have a program that will do the greatest good for the greatest number, you have a program that is for the people.
Today I have brought with me several members of my Cabinet so we could get away from Washington so we could learn something about conditions out where the people live. It always gives me strength and stimulation and inspiration to come and meet the people, and this can truly be called a trip to meet the people, because when you look in their eyes and shake their hands, you know they are honest, God-fearing people who are going to support what's right.
Today I want to present to you the distinguished Secretary of Agriculture, Mr. Orville Freeman. Your own beloved Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare, Mr. Celebrezze. The distinguished Secretary of Labor, Mr. Willard Wirtz. Mr. Wagner, who is head of the Tennessee Valley Authority and will be traveling with us through five States today. Mr. Robert Weaver, the head of the Housing and Home Finance Agency.
And finally, the man in charge of all of the Appalachia program who is going to help make these dreams come true, the Under Secretary of Commerce, Franklin D. Roosevelt, Jr.
Thank you for coming out to say hello. Goodby, and God bless you all.
  