
    Good morning. As you hear this, I am in St. Petersburg, Russia, in the middle of a 7-day trip to Europe. I've come to Europe to reaffirm our close ties with important allies, to talk about the next stages of the war on terror, and to open a new chapter in our relationship with Russia.
In this last century, the conflicts of Europe led to war and suffering for America. Today, Europe is growing in unity and peace, and that benefits our country. The nations of the European Union have made strong contributions to the war on terror. And the volume of our annual trade and investment relationship is nearly $2 trillion, helping workers, consumers, and families on both continents.
Germany, which I visited earlier this week, has emerged from a troubled history to become a force for good. German police and intelligence officials are helping in the war on terror. In Afghanistan, German troops have served and died beside our own. Speaking in Berlin, I thanked the German people for their support and sacrifice and talked about the challenges that still lie ahead.
Here in Russia, President Putin and I are putting the old rivalries of our Nation firmly behind us with a new treaty that reduces our nuclear arsenals to their lowest levels in decades. After years of planning for war, Russia and the United States are building a friendship based on shared interests, fighting terrorism, and expanding our trade relationship. After centuries of isolation and suspicion, Russia is finding its place in the family of Europe, and that is truly historic.
The partnership of America and Russia will continue to grow based on the foundation of freedom and the values—the democratic values we hold dear. Free nations are more peaceful nations, and the spread of liberty strengthens America.
On the rest of my trip, I'll travel to Paris and then to Normandy, France, for Memorial Day, to honor the soldiers who in 1944 gave their lives so that America, France, and all of Europe could one day live in peace and freedom. I will visit Rome for a summit that will forge new ties between the NATO Alliance and Russia. I'll meet with the Holy Father, Pope John Paul II, whose message of peace and social justice is particularly urgent at this time.
In two World Wars, the New World came to the rescue of the Old, and America became a European power. Now this continent is closer to being whole, free, and at peace than anytime in its history. We must finish this job, inviting a new Russia to be our full partner. And together, we must face the challenges of the world beyond Europe and America, terrorism, poverty, and evil regimes seeking terrible weapons. Europe and America share common dangers and common values. We have the opportunity and the duty to build a world that is safer and better.
Thank you for listening.
  