
    On Tuesday, May 15, 2012, the President signed into law:
H.R. 298, which designates the facility of the United States Postal Service in Cedar Park, Texas, as the Army Specialist Matthew Troy Morris Post Office Building;
H.R. 1423, which designates the facility of the United States Postal Service in Ardmore, Oklahoma, as the Specialist Micheal E. Phillips Post Office;
H.R. 2079, which designates the facility of the United States Postal Service in East Rockaway, New York, as the John J. Cook Post Office;
H.R. 2213, which designates the facility of the United States Postal Service in Iuka, Mississippi, as the Sergeant Jason W. Vaughn Post Office;
H.R. 2244, which designates the facility of the United States Postal Service in Geneva, New York, as the Corporal Steven Blaine Riccione Post Office;
H.R. 2660, which designates the facility of the United States Postal Service in Tomball, Texas, as the Tomball Veterans Post Office;
H.R. 2668, the "Brian A. Terry Memorial Act," which designates the station of the United States Border Patrol in Bisbee, Arizona, as the Brian A. Terry Border Patrol Station;
H.R. 2767, which designates the facility of the United States Postal Service in Westfield, Massachusetts, as the William T. Trant Post Office Building;
H.R. 3004, which designates the facility of the United States Postal Service in Yountville, California, as the Private First Class Alejandro R. Ruiz Post Office Building;
H.R. 3246, which designates the facility of the United States Postal Service in Ballwin, Missouri, as the Specialist Peter J. Navarro Post Office Building;
H.R. 3247, which designates the facility of the United States Postal Service in Chesterfield, Missouri, as the Lance Corporal Matthew P. Pathenos Post Office Building;
H.R. 3248, which designates the facility of the United States Postal Service in Saint Charles, Missouri, as the Lance Corporal Drew W. Weaver Post Office Building; and
S. 1302, which authorizes the General Services Administration to convey a reversionary interest in a parcel of real property to the city of Tracy, California.
  