
    The following listing includes the President's daily schedule and other items of general interest as announced by the White House Press Office during the period covered by this issue. Events and announcements printed elsewhere in the issue are not included.
May 8
The President met at the White House with:
—Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to. the President for National Security Affairs;
—Frank B. Moore, Assistant to the President for Congressional Liaison;
—the Cabinet;
—Mrs. Marcelyn Makela and Dr. Phillip Itkoff, Multiple Sclerosis Mother and Father of the Year.
The President transmitted to Congress the first annual report on the administration of the National Sickle Cell Anemia, Cooley's Anemia, Tay-Sachs, and Genetic Diseases Act.
May 9
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Adm. Stansfield Turner, Director of Central Intelligence, Hamilton Jordan, Assistant to the President, and Dr. Brzezinski;
—Alan K. Campbell, Chairman of the U.S. Civil Service Commission, and Senators Abraham Ribicoff of Connecticut, Jacob K. Javits of New York, Charles H. Percy of Illinois, and James R. Sasser of Tennessee;
—James T. Mcintyre, Jr., Director of the Office of Management and Budget.
The President attended a portion of the breakfast held in the State Dining Room at the White House for Secretary of Labor F. Ray Marshall, Members of Congress, and officers and members of national labor organizations.
The President hosted a reception for the Democratic National Committee Executive Group in the East Garden at the White House.
The President declared a major disaster for the State of Louisiana as a result of severe storms and flooding, beginning about May 3, which caused extensive public and private property damage.
May 10
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Mr. Moore;
—the Joint Chiefs of Staff;
—General Services Administrator Joel W. Solomon.
The President met in the Indian Treaty Room at the Old Executive Office Building with Ambassador Robert S. Strauss and officers of the AFL-CIO and the UAW, to discuss inflation.
The President greeted officers, the board of directors, and members of the American Retail Federation in Room 450 of the Old Executive Office Building.
May 11
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Mr. Moore;
—members of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus;
—leaders of environmental groups. The President announced the appointment of John P. Condon as the Representative of the United States on the South Pacific Commission. Condon is U.S. Ambassador to the Dominion of Fiji.
The President has appointed Carol W. Trencher as Chairman of the Advisory Committee to the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation. She was appointed a member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation in March.
May 12
The President met at the White House with:
—Vice President Walter F. Mondale, Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance, Dr. Brzezinski, and Mr. Jordan;
—Mr. Moore;
—Charles L. Schultze, Chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers;
—Senator Gary Hart of Colorado;
—representatives of the Hispanic media (transcript will be printed next week).
The President has invited the President of the Republic of France, Valery Giscard d'Estaing, to Washington for a working dinner on Friday, May 26. President Giscard d'Estaing will be in the United States on the occasion of his trip to New York for the Special Session of the United Nations General Assembly on Disarmament.
The President has appointed John M. Sullivan as Chairman of the U.S. National Commission in the Pan American Railway Congress Association. Sullivan is Administrator of the Federal Railway Administration.
The President departed the White House for a weekend stay at Camp David, Md.
  