
    Yesterday, Mayor Giuliani announced the FedStat program. Modeled after the successful CompStat program used to turn New York City from the nation's crime capital into America's safest large city, FedStat can be used to vastly improve the performance of the Federal government by measuring the success of each department in accomplishing its mission.
"You've got to figure out what an agency is supposed to achieve, and then you have to figure out the measurement — the ultimate measurement of it — and then you have to figure out the measurements that come before it that predict it." — Mayor Rudy Giuliani, Press Conference, 5/31/07
FEDSTAT WILL MAKE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABLE FOR SUCCESS
The American People Are Seeking Accountability From Government. "[T]he thing that I heard most often as I traveled around the United States over the last four or five years … was, 'Washington doesn't work anymore. They don't seem to accomplish anything. They don't seem to be able to get anything done.' And that used to be the complaint about New York City." (Mayor Giuliani, Press Conference, New York, NY, 5/31/07)
FedStat Can Bring The Accountability Standards Mayor Giuliani Applied In New York To Washington. "Now, this is what we should apply to the federal government, in order to satisfy the complaints and the criticisms of the people who say 'Washington doesn't accomplish anything.' The concept must be — and if I were president, this is the way I would do it, and we're going to begin organizing it now, because we began organizing what we were going to do in New York City 18 months before — we've got to look at each one of the functions of the federal government and impose business-like standards on it, CompStat standards on it." (Mayor Giuliani, Press Conference, New York, NY, 5/31/07)

GIULIANI USED COMPSTAT — A SIMILAR PROGRAM — TO TURN NEW YORK AROUND
CompStat Program "At The Core" Of "Turnaround In New York City." "People ask me all the time, how did you do it? How did you take New York City from being the crime capital of America to being the safest large city in the country? How did you take it from being the welfare capital of America … [to] being the welfare-to-work capital of America? How did you take it from a deficit to a surplus, and all the things that were part of the turnaround in New York City? Well, there were a lot of components to it. … But if there's one program that probably is at the core of it, it's the CompStat program." (Mayor Giuliani, Press Conference, New York, NY, 5/31/07)
CompStat's Timely Statistics, Rapid Deployment Of Resources And Relentless Follow Up Held Government Accountable. "If New York City were a business and therefore were accountable, how would you deal with it? And that led us in part to the CompStat program. … This is what CompStat is all about: accurate and timely intelligence, effective tactics, rapid deployment of personnel and resources, and relentless follow-up and assessment. The key to CompStat is not only deciding what the measure of success is going to be, and measuring it every day on … [T]he key to it is relentless follow-up and assessment. Having a CompStat meeting every week. Because very often in businesses or in governments all these statistics are created and people take them and they put them in their drawer, and six months later they look at the statistics. The innovation that CompStat brought about was, it required everyone to confront the statistics every week." (Mayor Giuliani, Press Conference, New York, NY, 5/31/07)
Other Local, State And Even National Governments Have Found Success With CompStat-Like Programs. "[E]very place that has used these programs, including Los Angeles and many cities in the country and now some foreign countries have found them to be revolutionary in being able to turn governments into accountable, responsible organizations." (Mayor Giuliani, Press Conference, New York, NY, 5/31/07)

FEDSTAT PROGRAMS WILL TACKLE REAL CHALLENGES WITH REAL MEASUREMENTS FOR SUCCESS
"The Major Purpose Of [FedStat] Is Accountability. It Begins With The President. I Have On My Desk A Sign That Says, 'I'm Accountable.'" (Mayor Giuliani, Press Conference, New York, NY, 5/31/07)
BorderStat Will Help Secure Our Borders. "There should be a BorderStat program. The BorderStat program should measure the number of people coming over the border. The BorderStat program should try to determine how many people are coming over the border that are undetected. As the government rolls out its high technology program … the technology is going to be there to figure out how many people are coming over that are undetected. That should be recorded every day, every night. It should be examined every single morning. And you should look at it and see how successful you're being in stopping people from coming over the border. … The BorderStat program can bring about what we desperately need, which is control of our borders." (Mayor Giuliani, Press Conference, New York, NY, 5/31/07)
TerrorStat Will Help Keep Us Safe From Terrorist Attacks. "You can take the CompStat program and you can apply it to terror — TerrorStat. It's a program that is … being developed in certain places in the country. It should be developed for the entire country, that is, trying to figure out what are the precursors that suggest that there's going to be a terrorist act, suspicious activity. … You need a system to make sure that we're getting all that information and we're getting the best use out of local law enforcement. … [T]he FBI is limited in resources. Local police are unlimited in resources, hundreds of thousands. Is it 700,000 local police? … They should be our eyes and ears with the FBI helping to coordinate that, work with that, working with them. A TerrorStat program can get that intelligence to the right place." (Mayor Giuliani, Press Conference, New York, NY, 5/31/07)
GAPStat — Government Accountability Program Stat — Will Impose Fiscal Discipline And Reduce The Size Of Government. "A GAPStat program can help us measure whether we're actually imposing fiscal discipline on the government. It's my promise that I would reduce the size of the federal employees. … 42 percent of them are retiring in the next 10 years. My objective would be to try to replace about half those positions. No one would lose their job, but the position wouldn't get filled. We would replace those positions with technology or with figuring out how people can be more productive. Well, you've got to track that. You have to have a GAPStat program to track that, and to track the out-of-control expenditures in each one of the agencies." (Mayor Giuliani, Press Conference, New York, NY, 5/31/07)
  