
    
  ABOUT THE TERRORISTS WAR ON US

Mayor Giuliani: "I've Seen What Can Happen When You Make A Mistake" About Terrorism. Mayor Giuliani: "In the hypothetical that you gave me, which assumes that we know that there's going to be another attack and these people know about it, I would tell the people who had to do the interrogation to use every method they could think of. Shouldn't be torture, but every method they can think of. … And I would support them in doing that, because I've seen what can happen when you make a mistake about this, and I don't want to see another 3,000 people dead in New York or anyplace else." (Mayor Giuliani, Republican Primary Candidates Debate, Columbia, SC, 5/15/07)
Mayor Giuliani: The Worst Thing To Show Terrorists Is Weakness. Mayor Giuliani: "These people do want to follow us here and they have followed us here. Fort Dix happened a week ago. That was a situation in which six Islamic terrorists, who were not directed by Al Qaeda but claimed to have been inspired by them, were going to kill our military in cold blood at Fort Dix. It was a 16 month investigation done by the F.B.I. and United States Attorney's office and thank God they caught them. But we have to remind ourselves that we are facing an enemy that is planning all over this world and it turns out planning inside our country to come here and kill us and the worst thing to do in the face of that is to show them weakness." (Mayor Giuliani, Republican Primary Candidates Debate, Columbia, SC, 5/15/07)
Mayor Giuliani: We Need To Identify Everyone In U.S. So We Can Find The Terrorists. Mayor Giuliani: "The reality is the focus on immigration should be to know everyone who is in the United States. We should have a tamper-proof ID card. We should have a database in which we can identify the people who are in this country. I know something about security. I think I have had more experience at having to secure a city, having to deal with security and the justice department than I would say anyone on this stage. And the reality is we have got to be sensible about immigration. If we do the kinds of things that some of the people here are talking about, this country is going to be in greater danger, it's going to be more insecure, we are going to face a situation in which terrorists, like the Fort Dix people, three of whom were illegal, can find a big underground to hide in. So, we need a fence, we need technological fence, we need tamper-proof ID card and we need a way that people who are working in this country can come forward, and sign up for the tamper proof ID card get in the database and start paying their way." (Mayor Giuliani, Republican Primary Candidates Debate, Columbia, SC, 5/15/07)
ABOUT FISCAL CONSERVATISM
Mayor Giuliani: "I Ran Probably One Of The Most Fiscally Conservative Governments In The Last 30 Or 40 Years." Mayor Giuliani: "As the Club for Growth pointed out yesterday in the report they did on me, I ran probably one of the most fiscally conservative governments in the last 30 or 40 years. Spending actually decreased in comparison to the increase in population and inflation. Spending in New York City decreased more than just about any other state, considerably less than the federal government while I was the mayor. I lowered taxes 23 times… I did it in a place where it's real hard to do it. If you can lower spending in New York City …Washington is easier than New York City to deal with." (Mayor Giuliani, Republican Primary Candidates Debate, Columbia, SC, 5/15/07)
Mayor Giuliani: "I Would Pledge Not To Refill 50%" Of Retiring Federal Employees' Jobs. Mayor Giuliani: "And, finally, I put controls on every one of the city agencies, which is what I would do in Washington. I'd do Reagan-like across the board budget cuts, 5 to 25%. And there is a great opportunity that we have coming up: About 50%, just about 50% of the federal employees are going to retire in the next 10 years. … We have the opportunity of not refilling all of those positions. And I would pledge not to refill 50% of them." (Mayor Giuliani, Republican Primary Candidates Debate, Columbia, SC, 5/15/07)
Mayor Giuliani: "The Leading Democratic Candidate For President Of The United States Has Said That The Unfettered Free Market Is The Most Disastrous Thing In Modern America." Mayor Giuliani: "But there is something I think really big at stake here. We're looking at a race here in which the leading democratic candidate for President of the United States has said that the unfettered free market is the most disastrous thing in modern America. That's a quote. Or that's a quote she agreed with. She has also said with regard to taxes that we have to take money from you in order to give it to the common good. There is such a stark difference there that this election in 2008 is going to make a very big difference about whether we go in that direction. The direction of removing private choice, putting government in a situation where government is in charge of so many different things that I think those are the things we should be debating. And Republicans should be uniting to make certain that what the liberal media is talking about, our inevitable defeat, doesn't happen." (Mayor Giuliani, Republican Primary Candidates Debate, Columbia, SC, 5/15/07)
  