
    On National Teacher Day, we recognize the countless men and women who dedicate their lives to instilling character, integrity, and knowledge in the hearts and minds of our Nation's students.
The classroom is a unique place for each student, providing them a sanctuary to learn and grow. The past months, however, have tested our traditional educational models, as the coronavirus outbreak has required our Nation's teachers to adapt and provide instruction to their students through increasingly innovative means. America's teachers have risen to the challenge by developing and implementing imaginative, creative, and resourceful strategies to bring their classrooms and lesson plans into the homes of their students. These adaptations to implement distance education are a reminder of the phenomenal work educators perform every day to ensure that our Nation's young people have ample access to valuable learning opportunities. During this challenging time, parents and caregivers have also taken on new educational roles by facilitating remote learning. Together, teachers, parents, and caregivers have refused to allow the coronavirus to stand in the way of preparing America's future leaders for a life filled with meaning, purpose, and success.
My administration is working to ensure that America's teachers always have the resources they need to deliver high-quality education to their students. In March, I signed the CARES Act into law. This historic and critical legislation includes more than $13 billion to help our K-12 teachers continue to provide quality education to our students, particularly through remote learning. Throughout my administration, we have invested in educators so that they can continue to equip our students with the knowledge and skills they need for meaningful and successful lives.
Teachers help shape the minds of children during their most impressionable years, strengthen and support their communities, and develop the leaders of tomorrow. Today we pay tribute to these extraordinary and thoughtful men and women and thank them for their compassionate service to their communities and country.
  