
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate two individuals, appoint eighteen individuals, and designate one individual to serve in his Administration:
The President intends to nominate Kathleen L. Casey, of Virginia, to be a Commissioner of the Securities and Exchange Commission, for a five-year term expiring June 5, 2011. Ms. Casey currently serves as Staff Director and Counsel for the Senate Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs. Prior to this, she served as Chief of Staff and Legislative Director for Senator Richard Shelby. Earlier in her career, she served as Legislative Assistant. Ms. Casey received her bachelor's degree from Pennsylvania State University and her JD from George Mason University.
The President intends to nominate Donald L. Kohn, of Virginia, to be Vice Chairman of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, for a four-year term. Mr. Kohn currently serves as Governor for the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. Prior to this, he served as the Advisor to the Board for Monetary Policy. He has also served as Secretary of the Federal Open Market Committee. Earlier in his career, Mr. Kohn served as a Financial Economist at the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City. He received his bachelor's degree from the College of Wooster and his PhD from the University of Michigan.
The President intends to appoint Carl E. Schneider, of Michigan, to be a Member of the President's Council on Bioethics, for the remainder of a two-year term expiring January 15, 2008.
The President intends to appoint Alan Austerman, of Alaska, to be a United States Commissioner on the United States Section of the North Pacific Anadromous Fish Commission (Alaska State Representative), for a four-year term.
The President intends to appoint Gary Thomas Smith, of Washington, to be a United States Commissioner on the United States Section of the North Pacific Anadromous Fish Commission (Washington State Representative), for a four-year term.
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Access Board, for the remainder of a four-year term expiring December 3, 2009.

  Joseph Albert Cirillo, of Rhode Island
  Elizabeth Ann Stewart, of Florida
  John Charles Wyvill, of Arkansas

The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the Advisory Committee on the Arts at the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts:

  Brittain Bardes Cudlip, of Florida
  Jody Dow, of Massachusetts
  Fred Wiehl Lazenby, of Tennessee
  Robert D. Leebern, Jr., of Georgia
  Carole J. McNeil, of California
  Robert Frank Pence, of Virginia
  Larry Ruvo, of Nevada
  Mark S. Siegel, of California
  Stephanie Spencer Tellefsen, of California
  David Carl Weinstein, of Massachusetts
  Nancy R. Williams, of Georgia
  Ilene Zatkin-Butler, of New York

The President intends to designate LaSalle Doheny Leffall, Jr., of the District of Columbia, to be Chairman of the President's Cancer Panel, for a one-year term beginning May 29, 2006.
  