
    
  Two prominent former state GOP chairmen with national profiles join the campaign

HOUSTON, Texas – Continuing to build a robust national organization,Cruz for President today the named two former state Republican Party Chairmen with strong national profiles to drive the campaign in Michigan and California.
"I am excited to add two incredibly experienced, courageous conservatives to our team," said Sen. Cruz. "Saul has a strong record of leadership, success, and exemplary management in Michigan. Ron has had the courage to believe the GOP can win in California and has a record to prove it in San Diego. With their guidance, our campaign is going to perform exceptionally well in both Michigan and California."
Saul Anuzis will serve as the Michigan Chairman for Cruz for President. He served as Chairman of the Michigan Republican Party from 2005 to 2009. His previous political and government service included working with Newt Gingrich at American Solutions, Jack Kemp's 1988 Presidential campaign, serving as Chief of Staff to Michigan Senate Majority Leader Dick Posthumus, Chairman of the MI Senate Republican Campaign Committee and serving on the MI House Republican Campaign Committee. Anuzis will also be a senior adviser to the campaign helping to organize the grassroots campaign nationally.
Ron Nehring will serve as the California Chairman for Cruz for President. He served as Chairman of the California Republican Party from 2007 to 2011and is widely credited with being the architect of the Republican resurgence San Diego as the Chairman of the Republican Party of San Diego County from 2001 to 2007. As the Republican Party leader in California and a member of the Republican National Committee, Ron Nehring served as Chairman of the RNC's State Chairmen's Committee from 2007 to 2011. During his tenure as Chairman, the California Republican Party erased its $4.7 million debt and raised over $74 million.
In 2014, Ron Nehring served as the Republican nominee for Lt. Governor of California, earning over 3 million votes.
The Michigan Presidential primary is slated for March 8, 2016 and the California primary is currently scheduled for June 7, 2016. In the general election, Michigan holds 16 electoral college votes; California holds 55.
  