
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate five individuals to serve in his administration.
The President intends to nominate Albert E. Smith to be Under Secretary of the Air Force. He is currently Executive Vice President of Lockheed Martin Space Systems. He joined Lockheed Martin in 1985 and has held several positions including Director of Communications Systems, Vice President of the MILSTAR Program and President of the Space Systems Division. He is a former member of the Central Intelligence Agency where he was chief engineer of a CIA ground-station facility and later a division manager of large-scale engineering projects. Originally from Massachusetts, Smith is a graduate of Northeastern University.
The President intends to nominate Michael Montelongo to be Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Financial Management. He is presently a Senior Project Manager with Cap Gemini Ernst & Young in Atlanta, Georgia, and has been with Ernst & Young since1999. He was previously Chief of Staff and Director of Small Business Services for BellSouth Telecommunications, Inc. From 1995 to 1996 he was a Congressional Fellow in the office of Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison and from 1994 to 1995 he served as Special Assistant to the Chief of Staff of the United States Army. Montelongo served as Chief of Staff and General Manager of Operations General Management at Fort Bliss, Texas, from 1992 to 1994 and was a Senior Analyst and Associate Professor at the U.S. Military Academy from 1988 to 1991. He is a twenty-year veteran of the U.S. Army, a graduate of the U.S. Military Academy and received an M.B.A. from Harvard Business School.
The President intends to nominate Steven John Morello, Sr. to be General Counsel of the Department of the Army. He is presently the Vice President and General Counsel of Prechter Holdings, Inc., in Southgate, Michigan. He served as Legal Counsel and then General Counsel and Corporate Secretary at ASC Incorporated from 1991-1995. From 1978 to 1987, he served in the U.S. Army Judge Advocate General's Corps as a Trial Attorney, Civil Attorney, Administrative Law Attorney and Contract Attorney and was awarded an Army Commendation Medal. He is a graduate of Georgetown University, received a J.D. from the University of Detroit Law School and earned an M.B.A. from Boston University.
The President intends to nominate James Edward Rogan to be Under Secretary of Commerce for Intellectual Property and Director of the United States Trademark Office. He served in the U.S. Congress from the State of California from 1997 to 2001 and was a Member of the California State Assembly from 1990 to 1994. He is currently a Partner with the Venable Law Firm in Washington, D.C. He is a graduate of the University of California at Berkeley and earned his J.D. from UCLA Law School.
The President intends to nominate Odessa F. Vincent to be a Judge on the District of Columbia Superior Court. She is currently the Chief of the Narcotics Section at the Office of the U.S. Attorney for the District of Columbia. She first joined the U.S. Attorney's Office in 1987 but left in 1995 when she accepted a position with the Drug Enforcement Administration's Office of Chief Counsel until 1998 and then returned to the U.S. Attorney's Office. She has also served as a member of the Department of Justice National Church Arson Task Force. Vincent is a graduate of the University of the District of Columbia and received her law degree from Howard University.
  