
    The Rudy Giuliani Presidential Committee announced today the Richmond County Republican Party is endorsing Rudy Giuliani for President.
Congressman Vito Fossella said, "Rudy Giuliani proved he embodies the most essential quality for our next President — leadership. Rudy is committed to ensuring America's long-term national and economic security. He has a unique understanding of the threat of terrorism and the resolve to win the terrorists war on us."
"Rudy proved during his years as Mayor that seemingly impossible goals could be accomplished with a commitment to conservative principles and strong leadership. Rudy will bring those same qualities to the White House and keep America moving forward."
Senator Andrew Lanza said, "Rudy Giuliani has the experience and proven leadership ability that America needs. As President, Rudy will keep us safe, strengthen the economy and lead us to a better future."
Councilman James Oddo, the Minority Leader of the New York City Council, said, "Rudy Giuliani inherited a city that was long considered 'ungovernable.' By embracing fiscal accountability and personal responsibility, he turned New York City into a modern day version of the 'shining city on a hill.' He'll bring that same leadership to America."
Councilman Vincent Ignizio said, "Having seen first-hand the renaissance of New York under Rudy Giuliani, I know as President he will give all Americans hope for the future. America can be confident Rudy will keep us safe."
Assemblyman Lou Tobacco said, "When many questioned whether New York City was still governable, Rudy Giuliani proved the key to success is strong leadership. Rudy transformed New York for the better, ushering in an era of lower taxes, job growth, unprecedented reductions in welfare and, most importantly, an end to the rampant wave of crime."
John Friscia said, "The Richmond County Republican Party is proud and honored to be the first county in New York State to endorse Rudy Giuliani for President. Rudy was an outstanding mayor who changed New York for the better. I have every confidence that Rudy will be a great President who leads America with strength, confidence and resolve."
Former Staten Island Borough President Guy V. Molinari, who is serving as Giuliani's New York State co-chair, and Giuliani New York City Chair John D'Amato accepted the Richmond County endorsement on behalf of the Giuliani campaign.
Molinari said, "Rudy Giuliani has always recognized Staten Island is a unique place. In many ways, he is our favorite son. I expect this will be the first of many endorsements of Rudy Giuliani over the next few weeks."
  