
    
1. At the invitation of the Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques, King Salman Bin Abdulaziz Al-Saud, the King of Saudi Arabia, President Donald J. Trump of the United States of America made an official visit to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia from Saturday, May 20, 2017 to Monday, May 22, 2017. 
2. During the visit, the two leaders reviewed the strong historical and strategic relations between the United States and the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, which have grown and flourished over the past eight decades in the political, economic, cultural, military, security, energy, and other fields. The leaders observed that the two countries have developed a productive partnership built upon trust, cooperation, and shared interests. 
3. The two leaders praised the contribution of this visit to strengthening the relations between the two countries, in order to achieve greater stability, security, and prosperity. The leaders declared that they stand together to thwart our common enemies, to strengthen the bonds between us, and to chart a path towards peace and prosperity for all. 
4. The two leaders agreed to a new Strategic Partnership for the 21st Century in the interest of both countries by formally announcing a Joint Strategic Vision for the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and the United States of America, charting a renewed path toward a peaceful Middle East where economic development, trade, and diplomacy are hallmarks of regional and global engagement. 
5. The two countries announced their plan to form a Strategic Joint Consultative Group, hosted by the King of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and the President of the United States of America, or their appropriate designees, to chart the course of this strategic partnership. 
6. The two countries agreed the Strategic Joint Consultative Group will meet at least once a year, alternating between the two countries, and it will review areas of cooperation. 
7. The two countries shared a desire to address the threats to their shared security interests. Thus, the two countries sought to embark on new initiatives to counter violent extremist messaging, disrupt financing of terrorism, and advance defense cooperation. 
8. The two sides expressed their desire to expand cooperation and hope that responsible governments willing to commit to peace will build upon their efforts to realize these objectives. The two sides predicted that violent extremists who threaten peace in the Middle East will find a growing group of regional partners arrayed against them, confronting their aggression and sowing the seeds of peace. 
9. The two sides acknowledged that a robust, integrated regional security architecture is critical to their cooperation. The United States of America and the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia intend to expand engagement with other countries in the region over the coming years and to identify new areas of cooperation. 
10. The leaders welcomed achievements during this visit, including the signing of a number of agreements and memoranda of understanding that will be fruitful for the peoples of the two countries and future generations, promoting security, stability, and prosperity in the region. 
11. The two leaders noted the growing and advanced volume of trade between the two countries, joint investments in economic projects and infrastructure, and the provision of facilities and incentives for these investments. 
12. The two leaders also indicated that this strategic partnership and economic and investment cooperation will generate a large number of high-quality jobs in both countries. 
13. The two leaders stressed the importance of investment in energy by companies in both countries, and the importance of coordinating policies that ensure the stability of markets and an abundance of supplies. 
14. The two leaders discussed the close cooperation between both countries to ensure the preservation of maritime security, including protecting the safety of navigation in key international waterways, particularly Bab al-Mandab and the Strait of Hormuz. 
15. The two leaders affirmed their determination to eliminate Daesh (also known as the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria or ISIS), al Qaeda, and other terrorist organizations and to fight terrorism using all instruments. 
16. The two leaders expressed the commitment of their countries to vigorously confront the attempts of terrorist organizations to legitimize their criminality, and to counter the roots of terrorist ideology. 
17. The two leaders reaffirmed their commitment to broad security cooperation and exchange of information to serve their interests and safeguard their security. 
18. The two leaders also reaffirmed their commitment to curb the flow of foreign fighters and cutting off funding supplies for terrorist organizations. 
19. The two leaders noted Saudi Arabia's achievement in detecting and disrupting 276 terrorist plots prior to their execution, including operations against the United States and friendly countries. 
20. President Trump praised the efforts of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia in deterring terrorist organizations' attempts to target the Kingdom, pointing out the attempts of terrorist organizations to cause a rift in relations between the two countries. The Kingdom was one of the first countries to suffer from terrorism; since 1992, more than 100 terrorist attacks have occurred in Saudi Arabia. 
21. The two leaders affirmed their determination to unite and integrate efforts between the United States-led Global Coalition Against ISIS with Saudi Arabia and the Saudi-led Islamic Military Alliance to Fight Terrorism. 
22. The two leaders also agreed on the need to contain Iran's malign interference in the internal affairs of other states, instigation of sectarian strife, support of terrorism and armed proxies, and efforts to destabilize the countries in the region. 
23. The two leaders also stressed that Iran's interference poses a threat to the security of the region and the world, and that the nuclear agreement with Iran needs to be re-examined in some of its clauses. The Iranian ballistic missile program poses a threat, not only to neighboring countries, but also a direct threat to the security of all countries in the region as well as global security. 24. The two sides also stressed the importance of reaching a comprehensive peace between Israelis and Palestinians. The leaders agreed to do everything they can to promote an environment that is conducive to advancing peace. 
25. The two sides stressed the need to work to resolve the crisis in Yemen. President Trump commended the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia for providing humanitarian and relief aid to the Yemeni people. 
26. As for the crisis in Syria, the Kingdom stressed its support for President Trump's decision to launch missiles at Shayrat Airbase from which the Syrian regime launched its chemical attacks on Khan Shaykhun. The two sides emphasized the importance that the Syrian regime adhere to the 2013 agreement to eliminate its entire stockpile of chemical weapons. The two sides emphasized the importance of reaching a permanent solution to the conflict in Syria based on the Geneva declaration and Security Council resolution 2254, in order to maintain the unity and integrity of Syrian territory so that it can be a country that represents the entire spectrum of the Syrian community and free from sectarian discrimination. 
27. The two leaders expressed their support for the Iraqi government's efforts to eradicate ISIS, uniting the Iraqis to combat terrorism that poses a threat to all Iraq, and preserving the unity and integrity of Iraqi territory, as well as the importance of stopping Iranian interference in Iraqi internal affairs. The two sides noted the importance of relations between Saudi Arabia and Iraq and seeking to develop them further. 
28. Regarding Lebanon, the two sides stressed the importance of supporting the Lebanese state in enforcing its sovereignty on all of its territory, disarm terrorist organizations such as Hizballah, and bring all weapons under the legitimate supervision of the Lebanese army. 

  