
    Also: Over 500,000 view President Clinton's video about Senator Clinton
Hillary Clinton's challenge to supporters to pick her campaign theme song continues to generate a tremendous response online, with more than 100,000 casting votes in less than 5 days since the competition launched.
Clinton posted a video on YouTube's "You Choose '08 Spotlight" on Wednesday afternoon, poking fun at her singing abilities and urging voters to visit her website and select a theme song or suggest their favorite. More than 550,000 people have watched the video on YouTube and HillaryClinton.com , as the blogs and network television have drawn attention to Clinton's innovative web campaign.
"Our song competition has generated an incredible amount of energy and excitement online," said Clinton Campaign Internet Director Peter Daou. "By utilizing the Web in unique ways, we can continue our conversation with voters and reach thousands of Americans every day."
Clinton's website had already drawn thousands of visitors this past week, after launching a text messaging effort to personally engage voters on their cell phones, and posting a video from President Clinton discussing why Hillary would make the best President.
On Monday, Hillary called on her supporters to text "JOIN" to 77007 to sign up for her text messaging effort that will provide people with campaign updates and photos. And the video posted by President Clinton was one of the top-rated videos on YouTube this week, with more than 500,000 views on YouTube and Hillary's website and regular play on cable TV.
As she kicked off her campaign, Hillary vowed to hold a conversation with voters online, announcing her candidacy in a web video and holding live web chats with voters across the country. Since then, she's continued the conversation, posting regular HillCast web videos on her policy proposals and participating in an online townhall with MoveOn.org.
Also this week, the web information monitor Alexa indicated that Senator Clinton's web site surpassed all other candidates' sites in web traffic, and continues to be the most frequently visited.
  