
    Pool Reports by Ashley Murray, States Newsroom 



Sent:
Reports:




May 31, 2023 10:03

In-town pool report #1/ brunch lid
White House has called a brunch lid until 11:45am


May 31, 202311:50

In-town pool report #2/pool gathering for spray before Summer Hazards briefing
Pool is gathering in the Brady Press Briefing Room now for spray followed by Summer Hazards briefing that is scheduled to begin in the Roosevelt Room at noon.


May 31, 2023 12:11

In-town pool report #3/spray moved to after Summer Hazards briefing
Pool spray has now been moved to the bottom of the summer hazard briefing. Pool standing by. 


May 31, 2023 12:37

In-town pool report #4/pool gathering for spray
Gathered outside the Roosevelt Room. 


May 31, 2023 12:41

In-town pool report #5/summer hazard briefing attendees
Per the WH, see below for list of federal emergency preparedness officials who attended briefing:
In-Person Attendees:Secretary Debra Haaland, Department of the Interior Jeff Zients, Assistant to the President & Chief of Staff Arati Prabhakar, Assistant to the President & Director of Office of Science and Technology Policy Jen O'Malley-Dillon, Assistant to the President and Deputy Chief of Staff Liz Sherwood-Randall, Assistant to the President & Homeland Security Advisor Caitlin Durkovich, Deputy Assistant to the President & Deputy Homeland Security Advisor for Resilience and Response Mitch Landrieu, Senior Advisor & Infrastructure Implementation Coordinator Dr. Rick Spinrad, Administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) Lieutenant General Scott Spellmon, Chief of Engineers & Commanding General of the United States Army Corps of Engineers Randy Moore, Chief of the United States Forest Service Alex Sopko, Chief of Staff, Office of Intergovernmental Affairs
Virtual Attendees:Secretary Tom Vilsack, Department of Agriculture Secretary Alejandro Mayorkas, Department of Homeland Security Deanne Criswell, Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) Ken Graham, Director of the National Weather Service (NWS) Mike Brennan, Director of the National Hurricane Center (NHC) Grant Beebe, Assistant Director for Fire and Aviation, National Interagency Fire Center (NIFC)
Speaking ProgramThe President 


May 31, 2023 13:29

In-town pool report #6/Spray remarks
Biden spoke to press for just over five minutes about positioning resources for potential natural disasters, including wildfires and the upcoming hurricane season. Will send comments in next report.
Biden responded to shouted questions about the debt ceiling at the end of his remarks.
Biden said he hopes the House will have passed debt ceiling bill by the time he lands in Colorado tonight.
"God willing, by the time I land, Congress will have acted, the House will have acted and we'll be one step closer."
This is a quick otter quote. Will check against TV pool audio. 


May 31, 2023 13:37

In-town pool report #7 /two-minute warning for briefing
[APP Note: No additional text was included in this report.]


May 31, 2023 13:42

In-town pool report #8 /Press briefing begins
Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre began the briefing at 1:39 p.m.
John Kirby, NSC Coordinator for Strategic Communications, joins the briefing at the top. 


May 31, 2023 14:48

In-town pool report #9/Briefing ends
The press briefing has ended. Briefing lasted roughly 1hr 5min. Kirby spoke and took questions for about 43 of those minutes. 


May 31, 2023 14:54

In-town pool report #10/Biden remarks after summer hazard briefing
Please see the following report on Biden remarks that were delivered earlier to the pool during a spray in the Roosevelt Room following his summer hazard briefing from cabinet members and other administration leaders. (His debt ceiling remark, fully transcribed, is at the bottom.)
BIDEN REMARKS ABOUT SUMMER HAZARDS AND EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS
(Checked audio against WH livestream playback: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=u4Vtfc5imt0)
Biden said he received a "significant briefing" from cabinet members regarding severe weather preparedness.
"Last year hurricanes and other extreme weather events in the United States caused over $165 billion dollars in damage."
Regarding Typhoon Mawar that last week hit Guam and the Northern Mariana Islands that caused "tremendous damage," Biden said: "Our hearts go out to the people who are affected. But the pace of the recovery there is an example of the importance of investing in our infrastructure." He cited recently installed cement utility poles and electric and communications systems in Guam.
"Summer is bringing a more active wildfire season to the United States. This year alone wildfires have destroyed an area almost as big as the state of Maryland." Biden added that over the past two years, a third of Americans have been "personally affected" by extreme weather and said the impacts of climate change are "rapidly intensifying."
Biden said his Investing in America agenda includes new investments "to make communities stronger, make our communities more resilient."
He cited the bipartisan infrastructure law and the Inflation Reduction Act -- "They both include record funding to increase community resilience to drought, flooding and wildfires."
"For example, I'm traveling to Colorado this afternoon where the Forest Service is funding $1.1 million to treat 600 acres of hazardous fuel such as trees and brush."
Biden also said his administration has invested in advanced satellite technology to predict the paths of wildfires and storms, and said his administration has funded 130 water projects "to address the drought crisis in the West, including projects that are going to conserve tens of millions of gallons of water in drought-stricken areas like the Colorado River Basin."
Biden said the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and NOAA have funded hundreds of projects across the U.S. to address flood and coastal resilience.
Biden said the U.S. is "hardening the electric grid to withstand stronger storms."
Biden promoted Build.gov as a way to track, by region, infrastructure developments under his administration.
"I want to close by thanking the brave Americans, and I mean that sincerely, the brave Americans who put their lives on the line to keep our communities safe. The firefighters and first responders including FEMA personnel who run toward the danger while everyone else runs the other way."
Added that the U.S. has firefighters in Canada right now helping to battle a current wildfire raging in Nova Scotia.
REPORTERS SHOUTED QUESTIONS ABOUT DEBT CEILING
Reporters shouted questions over each other. No question was singled out by the president.
Biden quipped to cabinet members at the table with him that he predicted reporters would not ask him anything about severe weather preparedness.
"I told these guys you wouldn't ask anything about what we just talked about. Was I right? I just wanted to show you I was right," he said to the leaders at the table.
"We're going to deal with the debt ceiling. I think things are going as planned. God willing I'll be landing in Colorado tonight in preparation for my commencement speech at the Air Force Academy tomorrow. By the I land Congress will have acted, the House will have acted and we'll be one step closer. Thank you very much." 


May 31, 2023 15:02

In-town pool report #11/Clarification on Biden debt ceiling quote
A few missing words in bold below:
"We're going to deal with the debt ceiling. I think things are going as planned. God willing I'll be landing in Colorado tonight in preparation for my commencement speech at the Air Force Academy tomorrow. And God willing by the time I land Congress will have acted, the House will have acted and we'll be one step closer. Thank you very much." 


May 31, 2023 15:03

In-town pool report #12/lunch lid
White House has called a lunch lid until 3:55 p.m. 


May 31, 2023 16:14

In-town pool report #13/press gathered for Biden's departure
Press gathered at South Lawn exit (near a very loud Marine One!) awaiting Biden's departure to JBA. 


May 31, 2023 16:41

In-town pool report #14/Biden departs White House
Biden departed the White House South Lawn for JBA at 4:30 p.m.
He only answered a question from Peter Doocy of Fox News who asked him about reelection plans and why people have not seen Biden on the campaign trail. Per Doocy, Biden responded "You haven't?"
Marine One was very loud. Thank you to Peter and other reporters who struggled to make out their audio recordings for the pool!
Per White House:
Traveling with the President aboard Marine One en route to Joint Base Andrews:
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations Anita Dunn, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President Karine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press Secretary 




Pool Reports below by Jeff Mordock, The Washington Times 



Sent:
Reports:




May 31, 2023 16:46 EDT

Travel Pool Report #1 — Arrival at JBA
POTUS arrived at JBA at 4:42 and boarded AF1 at 4:45
He did not take questions and the pool was too far from POTUS for him to hear us.
Per White House here is who is greeting and traveling with POTUS.
Greeting the President upon arrival at Joint Base Andrews:
Colonel William "Chris" McDonald, Vice Commander, 89th Airlift Wing
Traveling with the President aboard Air Force One en route to Peterson Space Force Base:
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations Anita Dunn, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President Karine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press Secretary Ryan Montoya, Deputy Assistant to the President & Director of Scheduling and Advance Marc Gustafson, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for the White House Situation Room Carlyn Reichel, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for Speechwriting & Strategic 


May 31, 2023 16:55 EDT

Travel Pool Report #2 — Wheels up
We are wheels up at 4:55!
Next stop — Colorado Springs, Colorado!! 


May 31, 2023 17:45 MDT

Travel Pool Report #3 —- Wheels down
Air Force One touched down at Peterson Space Force Base in Colorado Springs at 5:44.
Flight was uneventful.
Anita Dunn, senior adviser to President Biden, stopped by the press cabin for an OTR talk about the debt ceiling bill and tonight's vote. 


May 31, 2023 18:12 MDT

Travel Pool Report #4 — Arrival
President Biden departed Air Force One at 5:59.
He made some brief small talk with the greeters but it was too hard to hear anything he said over the roar of AF1's engines.
POTUS walked over to a crowd of military personnel, where he posed for selfies, shook hands and signed at least one autograph.
Your pooler couldn't hear what he was telling the military personnel.
The pool was ushered into the van and we will soon be rolling to an undisclosed location.
Greeting the President upon arrival at Peterson Space Force Base:
Senator Michael Bennet (CO) Mayor John Suthers, Colorado Springs, CO General Glen VanHerck, United States Air Force Commander, Headquarters, North American Aerospace Defense Command & United States Northern Command Lieutenant General Stephen Whiting, United States Space Force Commander, Space Operations Command Lieutenant General John Shaw, United States Air Force Deputy Commander, United States Space Command  Colonel David Hanson, United States Space Force Commander, Space Base Delta 1 (Installation Commander)
The pool in the van and rolling to the RON. 


May 31, 2023 18:27 MDT

Travel Pool Report #5 —- Thunderbirds
After a brief (less than a minute) drive down the runway at Peterson, POTUS s departed the beast at 6:22 to greet the Thunderbird pilots.
Your pooler was too far away to hear POTUS conversation with the pilots but there was more than one occasion where the president and the pilots were laughing out loud.
POTUS posed for a photograph with the pilots.
The pool is now being ushered back to the press van. 


May 31, 2023 18:33 MDT

Travel Pool Report #6 —- Rolling
The motorcade began rolling at 6:32 en route to the RON.
Your pooler did not see POTUS enter the beast. 


May 31, 2023 18:55 MDT

Travel Pool Report #7 — arrival at RON
The motorcade arrived at the RON at 6:53
Your pooler did not see POTUS depart the beast or enter the RON.
The motorcade was greeted by cheers and a few protesters as we made our way from Peterson to the RON. 


May 31, 2023 19:10 MDT

Travel Pool Report #8 — LID
And we have a travel lid at 7:09. That's all from Colorado. Enjoy your evening!



  