
    The President today announced his intention to appoint the following individuals to be delegates to the National White House Conference on Small Business. These are new positions.
Jim Anderson, of Wyoming. Mr. Anderson is store manager of Wyoming Machinery Co. He graduated from Casper College (A.B., 1972). Mr. Anderson is married, has two children, resides in Gillette, WY, and he was born July 24, 1948, in Sheridan, WY.
Camille Haney, of Wisconsin. She is president of the Haney Co. in Milwaukee, a national consulting organization that specializes in consumer-related public policy issues. Ms. Haney graduated from the University of Wisconsin at Madison (B.S., 1968). She resides in Milwaukee, WI, and she was born July 8, 1946, in Marshfield, WI.
Ivan Mothershead III, of North Carolina. He is president of UMI Publications in Charlotte, and he is currently a member of the North Carolina House of Representatives. Mr. Mothershead graduated from North Carolina State University (B.A., 1970; M.A., 1972). He is married, has one child, and resides in Charlotte, NC. He was born June 24, 1948, in Norfolk, VA.
Nestor J. Navarro, Jr., of Louisiana. He is president of LaCo Investments, Inc., in Baton Rouge, and since 1983 he has been a member of the board of directors of the Small Business Equity Corporation of Louisiana. Mr. Navarro graduated from Louisiana State University (B.S., 1971). He is married, has two children, resides in Baton Rouge, and was born August 19, 1947, in Victoria de Las Tunas, Oriente, Cuba.
Edward R. Norford, of Pennsylvania. He is president of Miller & Norford Contractors, Inc., in Lemoyne, and he is currently a member of both the West Shore and Harrisburg Area Chambers of Commerce. Mr. Norford graduated from Penn State University (B.S., 1946). He is married, has one child, resides in Camp Hill, PA, and he was born October 18, 1928.
Eugene Piacentini, of Massachusetts. He is executive vice president, treasurer, and CEO of Creative Gourmets, Ltd., in Boston. Mr. Piacentini graduated from New York University (B.S.) and the Culinary Institute of America. He is married, has three children, resides in West Medford, MA, and was born October 13, 1946, in Cambridge, MA.
Lester H. Poggemeyer, of Ohio. He is chairman of the board of Poggemeyer Design, and vice president of the Chamber of Commerce in Bowling Green. Mr. Poggemeyer graduated from the University of Toledo (B.S., 1962). He is married, has two children, resides in Luckey, OH, and was born December 24, 1940, in Toledo, OH.
Warren A. Price, of Delaware. He is president of Price Organization, Price Honda, Diamond Motor Sports, Inc., and Price Buick Pontiac in Dover. Mr. Price attended the University of Delaware. He is married, has three children, resides in Dover, and was born April 16, 1942, in Wilmington, NC.
Susan B. Sarvis, of New Hampshire. She is president and owner of LTS, Inc., a manufacturing company in Manchester. From 1983 to 1985, she served on the President's Advisory Committee on Women's Business Ownership. Ms.
Sarvis graduated from Ohio State University (B.S., 1968). She has two children, resides in Manchester, NH, and was born August 5, 1945, in Cleveland, OH.
Susan F. Shultz, of Arizona. She is president of Susan Shultz & Associates, an executive search consulting firm that she founded in 1980 in Paradise Valley. She is a member of the Arizona District Export Council and the Phoenix Committee on Foreign Relations. Ms. Shultz resides in Paradise Valley, and she was born March 25, 1943, in New York, NY.
Robert Gordon Wagner, of Ohio. Mr. Wagner is president and founder of the Glass Co. in Columbus. He attended Michigan State University. Mr. Wagner is married, has three children, and resides in Columbus, OH. He was born April 7, 1941, in Rochester, NY.
Wesley L. Walker, of New Mexico. Mr. Walker is owner of Walker Motor Co. in Alamogordo and director of the executive loan committee of Western Bank in Las Cruces. He graduated from New Mexico A&M (B.A., 1950). Mr. Walker is married, has four children, resides in Alamogordo, and was born September 13, 1926, in Deming, NM.
Gregory K. Washington, of Maryland. Mr. Washington is president of Gregory K. Washington, CPA's. He graduated from Florida State University (B.S., 1984). Mr. Washington is married, resides in Forestville, and was born May 5, 1952, in Sanford, FL.
Milton Zwickel, of New York. Mr. Zwickel is president of Milroy Cars, Inc., and Milroy Cars Rental Systems, Inc., in Catskill. He is married, has two children, resides in Catskill, and was born April 23, 1920, in Brooklyn, NY.
  