
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate six individuals and appoint eleven individuals to serve in his Administration:
The President intends to nominate Charles S. Ciccolella, of Virginia, to be Assistant Secretary of Labor for Veterans' Employment and Training. Mr. Ciccolella currently serves as Deputy Assistant Secretary for Veterans Employment and Training at the Department of Labor. He previously served in the United States Senate Rules Committee as Director of Information Technology Policy. Prior to his service in the Senate, Mr. Ciccolella served for twenty-eight years in the United States Army. He earned his bachelor's degree from Auburn University and his master's degree from Central Michigan University.
The President intends to nominate Reuben Jeffery III, of the District of Columbia, to be Commissioner of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, for the remainder of a five year term expiring April 13, 2007, and as Chairman. Mr. Jeffery currently serves as Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for International Economic Affairs at the National Security Council. He previously served at the Department of Defense as Representative and Executive Director of the Washington, DC Office of the Coalition Provisional Authority. Earlier in his career, Mr. Jeffery worked for Goldman, Sachs & Company in Paris, France, London, England, and New York, New York. He earned his bachelor's degree from Yale University and his master's degree and J.D. from Stanford University.
The President intends to nominate James A. Rispoli, of Virginia, to be Assistant Secretary of Energy (Environmental Management). Mr. Rispoli currently serves as Director of the Office of Engineering and Construction Management at the Department of Energy. He previously served as Principal Deputy Director of the Office of Engineering and Construction Management at the Department of Energy. Earlier in his career, Mr. Rispoli served as Vice President and Managing Principal for Pacific Ocean Area at Dames & Moore. Having served in the United States Navy and Air Force, Mr. Rispoli earned his bachelor's degree from Manhattan College, his first master's degree from the University of New Hampshire and his second master's degree from Central Michigan University.
The President intends to nominate Linda Jewell, of the District of Columbia, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Ecuador. A career member of the Senior Foreign Service, Ms. Jewell currently serves as Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Bureau of Western Hemisphere Affairs at the Department of State. She previously served as Director of the Office of Policy Planning and Coordination for Western Hemisphere Affairs at the Department of State. Prior to this position, Ms. Jewell served as Deputy Chief of Mission in San Jose, Costa Rica. She earned her bachelor's degree from Yale University and her master's degree from Johns Hopkins University.
The President intends to nominate John F. Tefft, of Virginia, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Georgia. A career member of the Senior Foreign Service, he currently serves as Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for European and Eurasian Affairs at the Department of State. Ambassador Tefft previously served as the International Affairs Advisor (Deputy Commandant) at the National War College. Earlier in his career, he served as Ambassador to Lithuania. Ambassador Tefft earned his bachelor's degree from Marquette University and his master's degree from Georgetown University.
The President intends to appoint Daniel H. Stone, of Pennsylvania, to be a Member of the Committee for Purchase from People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled (Navy).
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the President's Commission on White House Fellowships:
Richard A. Bennett of Maine
Terry E. Branstad of Iowa
Archie W. Dunham of Texas
P. Robert Fannin of Arizona
Cathy Gillespie of Virginia
Anne Heiligenstein of Texas
Carol Jean Jordan of Florida
David M. Roederer of Iowa
Judy Baar Topinka of Illinois
William L. Webb, III of Alabama
  