
    Hillary Clinton laid out her progressive vision for strengthening the middle class in the face of rising income inequality and globalization today. In a speech at the Manchester School of Technology in New Hampshire, she called for a return to shared prosperity and tax fairness, while expanding access to quality education and healthcare for all Americans.
"I believe that one of the most crucial jobs of the next President is to define a new vision of economic fairness and prosperity for the 21st century -- a vision for how we ensure greater opportunity for our next generation," Clinton said. "I consider myself a thoroughly optimistic and modern progressive. I believe we can grow our economy in the face of global competition -- and in a way that benefits all Americans. I believe we can curb the excesses of the marketplace -- and provide more opportunities for more Americans to succeed."
Despite worker productivity increasing 18% over the last six years, family incomes have gone down $1,300. Last year, the share of national income going to corporate profits was the highest since 1929, while the amount going to the salaries of American workers was the lowest since that time.
"I believe that our government can once again work for all Americans -- it can promote the great American tradition of opportunity for all and special privileges for none," Clinton said.
Hillary Clinton would:

Level the playing field and reducing special breaks for big corporations.
Eliminate incentives for American companies to ship jobs and profits overseas.
Reform the governance of corporations and the financial sector.
Restore fiscal responsibility to government.
Give every young person an opportunity to attend college, and ensure that education starts early in life and continues into adulthood.
Increase support for community colleges and alternative schools.
Help working people earn enough to support their families and help them save for the future.
Ensure that every American has quality, affordable health care.
Make investments necessary for creating new jobs.

[Click here] to read a full fact sheet on Hillary's progressive vision.
[Click here] to read Hillary's speech laying out her vision.
  