
    Pool Reports by Katherine Doyle, Washington Examiner 



Sent:
Reports:




May 15, 202214:33

VPOTUS pool report #1 : JBA
Good afternoon from JBA. I will be serving as your print pooler for Vice President Harris’s trip to the United Arab Emirates.
The pool is on the tarmac awaiting VP’s arrival. CIA Dir Burns and Climate Envoy Kerry are also waiting to greet Harris and have been chatting for about 5 mins.
VP’s NSA Philip Gordon, Deputy NSA Rebecca Lissner, White House Middle East Coordinator Brett McGurk have boarded.
Kerry arrived earlier on the tarmac at 2:23 pm. Press shouted a question about the oil standoff between the Gulf states and the U.S. as he boarded the plane.
On background from a White House Official:
Statement by Press Secretary Kirsten Allen on the Vice President’s Travel to United Arab Emirates
Vice President Kamala Harris will travel to Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates on May 16 to lead a Presidential Delegation and offer condolences on behalf of the Biden-Harris Administration and the American people on the passing of His Highness Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan. She will meet with His Highness SheikhMohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, President of the United Arab Emirates. In addition to honoring the memory and the legacy of Sheikh Khalifa, the Vice President will underscore the strength of the partnership between our countries and our desire to further deepen our ties in the coming months and years.
The Honorable Kamala Harris, Vice President of the United States of America, will lead the delegation.
Members of the Presidential Delegation:Mr. Sean Murphy, Chargé d’Affaires ad interim, U.S. Embassy Abu DhabiThe Honorable Antony J. Blinken, Secretary of State of the United StatesThe Honorable Lloyd J. Austin III, Secretary of Defense of the United StatesThe Honorable John F. Kerry, Special Presidential Envoy for ClimateThe Honorable Philip Gordon, Assistant to the President and National Security Advisor to the Vice PresidentThe Honorable William Burns, Director of the Central Intelligence AgencyThe Honorable Brett McGurk, Deputy Assistant to the President and Coordinator for the Middle East and North Africa, National Security CouncilThe Honorable Barbara Leaf, Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for the Middle East and North Africa, National Security Council
Please reach out with any questions.



May 15, 202214:58

VPOTUS pool report #2: comments on Buffalo / wheels up
Marine Two touched down at 2:38 pm.
Vice President Harris exited and was greeted on the tarmac by Climate Envoy John Kerry and CIA Director Bill Burns.
She then walked over to the press and made brief comments about the trip to UAE to pay respects after the death of the Sheikh Mohamed and "our commitment to strengthen that relationship."
On Buffalo, "it's horrendous." "We have to do everything in our power to stop it."
Statement was hard to hear under the wing. Will send complete text in next report.
She did not answer a question about what actions the White House could take in response to the violence.
Harris boarded AF2 at 2:46 pm.
We are headed to Ramstein Air Base in Germany. Air Force Two will be wheels up shortly.




  