
    
  Study finds that Ron Paul proposes double the reductions of his nearest challenger

LAKE JACKSON, Texas- 2012 Republican Presidential candidate Ron Paul earns high praise for presenting a bold plan to cut spending in his 'Plan to Restore America.' The 12-term Congressman from Texas has a voting record on taxes and spending starkly different from those of his moderate-establishment rivals for the Republican nomination. The National Taxpayers Union Foundation (NTUF) recently conducted a study of the GOP candidates' agendas on spending cuts.
Study of GOP Candidates' Platforms Finds Romney Proposes Double Gingrich's Budgetary Savings; Paul's Blueprint for Cuts Dwarfs Others' Plans
By Douglas Kellogg and Peter Sepp
*Important note: NTU has not endorsed and will not be endorsing any Presidential candidate, nor is this post intended to suggest support or opposition for any Presidential candidate.*
Mitt Romney's spending cut agenda is twice as large as Newt Gingrich's, while Ron Paul proposes double the reductions of his nearest challenger. Those are just some of the key findings of the National Taxpayers Union Foundation's (NTUF's) in-depth, line-by-line analysis of the 2012 GOP contenders' federal budget proposals. NTUF has conducted studies of Presidential and Senatorial candidates' fiscal policy platforms for more than a decade.
According to NTUF, GOP frontrunner Mitt Romney's platform would reduce federal outlays by a net of $353.0 billion annually, Newt Gingrich's extensive policy plans would shed $146.2 billion from the budget, and Rick Santorum had $670.6 billion in cuts on his radar prior to ending his campaign. Ron Paul seeks $1.2 trillion in yearly net reductions.
"Although each of the Republican Presidential candidates attempted to stress ideological differences with each other, all agreed that Washington had to spend less money. But the issue is, how much less?" said NTUF Director of Congressional Analysis Jeff Dircksen. "Americans seeking more than just rhetoric from White House hopefuls will find some hard numbers in NTUF's reports. Not surprisingly, however, they will also find a great many unknowns due to the lack of specificity from the candidates themselves about their plans."
To read the full NTUF release online, please click here.
  