
    Following yesterday's release of Senator Kamala Harris' plan to close the gender pay gap, South Carolina women leaders Constance Anastopoulo and Susan Riordan have announced their support for Harris' presidential campaign.
"I'm proud to endorse Kamala Harris for President," said Anastopoulo. "She understands the economic and social pressures women face in the workplace and has demonstrated she will be a leader on pay equity as well as on the maternal mortality crisis. Her record as California's Attorney General proves that she is a fighter for all people and I'm excited to join this movement to lift up working families."
Anastopoulo was the Democratic nominee for Attorney General after serving for 15 years as a senior litigator at a Charleston-area law firm appearing before the S.C. Court of Appeals, the S.C. Supreme Court, and the U.S. Fourth Circuit Court of Appeals. A Professor of Law at the Charleston School of Law, Anastopoulo is active in the fight for gender equality, serving on the Board of Directors of My Sister's House, Inc., the Advisory Board of the Women and Gender Studies Program at the College of Charleston, and as Vice President of the Charleston Area League of Women Voters. She formerly served as the President of Daughters of Penelope Philanthropy which operates a shelter for women fleeing domestic abuse.
"As Republicans attempt to strip women of the economic, reproductive, and social gains we have fought for, Kamala Harris has been a champion for equality and progress," said Riordan. "Her plan to eliminate the pay gap and her commitment to fighting for universal paid family and medical leave make me proud to endorse her campaign to move South Carolina, and our nation, forward."
Riordan is a co-founder of Emerge South Carolina, the Palmetto State's premier organization that recruits, trains and provides a powerful network to Democratic women seeking office. She currently serves as the Chair of its Development Committee in addition to working with the United Way of Greenville County and Upstate Forever.
"I am proud to have earned the support of Constance Anastopoulo and Susan Riordan, two leaders who have spent their lives advocating for gender equality," Harris said. "South Carolina women lose $10 billion every year due to pay inequity. That's not right and it's why I've put forward the most aggressive equal pay proposal in our country's history to close the pay gap between women and men. I'm excited to work with Constance and Susan to fight discrimination in the workplace as I campaign across South Carolina."
Harris has previously been endorsed by I.S. Leevy Johnson, Bakari Sellers, Senator Darrell Jackson, Senator John Scott, Representative JA Moore, Representative Pat Henegen, former gubernatorial candidate Marguerite Willis, and Berkeley County Democratic Chair Melissa Watson.
  