
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

Recreational boating has become one of this Nation's most popular leisure-time activities. It is estimated that in 1995, more than 76 million Americans will enjoy our country's scenic waterways, engaging in pastimes from fishing and cruising to waterskiing, sailing, and sightseeing. Most Americans will act responsibly in these activities, ensuring the safety of their families and friends. Yet much work remains to be done if we are to make boating safe for all of us.
Studies indicate that in more than 85 percent of the fully documented recreational boating fatalities, the victim was not wearing any type of life jacket. This tragic statistic highlights a simple fact: personal flotation devices can help prevent more than 600 fatalities annually. I urge all Americans to wear them regularly when on our waterways.
The United States Coast Guard, the National Safe Boating Council, and the many State and local recreational boating organizations and governmental agencies are working with volunteer organizations across the country to educate the boating public about the importance of wearing life jackets. This advice applies not only to boat operators but also to passengers and all individuals participating in sporting activities on the waterways. Falling overboard and capsizing are the leading causes of boating fatalities, and more than half of all boating accidents are alcohol-related. But with responsible behavior and the proper precautions, families and friends can experience the joys of boating for years to come.
In recognition of the importance of safe boating practices, the Congress, by joint resolution approved June 4, 1958 [36 U.S.C. 161], as amended, has authorized and requested the President to proclaim annually the seven day period prior to the Memorial Day Weekend, as "National Safe Boating Week."
Now, Therefore, I, William J. Clinton, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim May 20 through May 26, 1995, as National Safe Boating Week. I encourage the Governors of the 50 States and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and officials of other areas subject to the jurisdiction of the United States, to join in observing this week. I urge all Americans to practice safe recreational boating during these days and throughout the year.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this eleventh day of May, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-five, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and nineteenth.

WILLIAM J. CLINTON
  