
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
May 22
In the morning, the President traveled to Irvington, VA. Later, he met with Democratic Senators in the Cove Room at the Tides Inn.
In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC.
May 23
In the morning, the President traveled to Grambling, LA, and in the afternoon, he returned to Washington, DC.
May 25
In the morning, the President traveled to Edinburg, TX, and in the afternoon, he traveled to Yulee, FL.
May 26
The President announced his intention to nominate A. Peter Burleigh to be Ambassador to the Philippines and Palau.
May 27
The President announced his intention to nominate Thomas J. Miller to be Ambassador to Bosnia and Herzegovina.
The President announced his intention to nominate Donald K. Bandler to be Ambassador to Cyprus.
The President announced his intention to nominate Bismarck Myrick to be Ambassador to Liberia.
The President announced his intention to nominate Johnnie Carson to be Ambassador to Kenya.
The President announced his intention to nominate J. Brady Anderson to be Administrator for the U.S. Agency for International Development.
The President announced his intention to designate Thomasina Rogers to serve as Chair of the Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission.
The President announced his intention to nominate Ann Brown to be Chair and Commissioner and Mary Sheila Gall to be Commissioner of the Consumer Product Safety Commission.
The White House announced that the President will travel to Europe on June 15-22.
May 28
The President announced his intention to nominate M. Osman Siddique to be Ambassador to Fiji, Nauru, Tonga, and Tuvalu.
The President announced his intention to appoint William F. Paul and Carl G. Lewis as members of the Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board.
The President announced his intention to appoint David Benton as Commissioner of the Pacific Salmon Commission.
The President announced his intention to appoint Marcelle Leahy as a member of the Board of Directors for the Student Loan Marketing Association.
The President announced the nomination of Steve H. Nickles, Robert Tobias, James W. Wetzler, Karen Hastie Williams, and Larry Levitan to be members of the Internal Revenue Service Oversight Board.
  