
    Today, Romney for President released a new web video, "Broken Promises: Energy." In 2008, President Obama promised to create millions of new jobs and invest in new energy sources. Today, the energy industry has lost thousands of jobs and Solyndra, to which the Obama Administration loaned over half a billion dollars, is out of business.
To View "Broken Promises: Energy" Please See: http://mi.tt/JNsMKf
AD FACTS: Script For "Broken Promises: Energy"
VIDEO TEXT: "August 28, 2008"
VIDEO TEXT: "What Barack Obama Promised..."
SEN. BARACK OBAMA: "And I'll invest $150 billion dollars over the next decade in affordable, renewable sources of energy—wind power and solar power and the next generation of biofuels—an investment that will lead to new industries and five million new jobs that pay well and can't be outsourced."

SEN. BARACK OBAMA: "And I'll invest $150 billion dollars over the next decade in affordable, renewable sources of energy—wind power and solar power and the next generation of biofuels—an investment that will lead to new industries and five million new jobs that pay well and can't be outsourced." (Sen. Barack Obama, "Remarks," Denver, CO 8/28/08)

VIDEO TEXT: "2009-2012"
VIDEO TEXT: "What President Obama Delivered."
VIDEO TEXT: "The Obama Administration Loaned More Than Half A Billion Dollars To Solyndra, Which Went Bankrupt And Laid Off 1,100 Workers."


    The Obama Administration Loaned More Than Half A Billion Dollars To Solyndra, Which Went Bankrupt And Laid Off 1,100 Workers."In a blow to the Obama administration's efforts to create green jobs, solar-cell maker Solyndra announced Wednesday that it will close its remaining Fremont factory, lay off its 1,100 employees and file for bankruptcy.  The news marked an abrupt end for a company once considered among the most innovative in a fast-changing industry. The bankruptcy also represents a high-profile failure for a federal stimulus program that gives loan guarantees to green-tech manufacturers. Solyndra was the first company to win one of the guarantees, receiving $535 million in 2009 to build its second factory in Fremont less than a mile from the company's original plant." (David R. Baker and Carolyn Said, "Solyndra Closes Fremont Plant - Stimulus Hopes Dim," San Francisco Chronicle, 9/1/11)
  

VIDEO TEXT: "The Millions Of 'Green Jobs' Obama Promised Have Been Slow To Sprout..."


    "The Millions Of 'Green Jobs' Obama Promised Have Been Slow To Sprout..." "But the millions of 'green jobs' Obama promised have been slow to sprout, disappointing many who had hoped that the $90 billion earmarked for clean-energy efforts in the recession-fighting federal stimulus package would ease unemployment - still above 8 percent in March." (Andy Sullivan, "Analysis: Obama's 'Green Jobs' Have Been Slow To Sprout," Reuters, 4/13/12)
  

VIDEO TEXT: "Wind Energy 'Has Shed 10,000 Jobs Since 2009'"


    Wind Energy "Has Shed 10,000 Jobs Since 2009." "The wind industry, for example, has shed 10,000 jobs since 2009 even as the energy capacity of wind farms has nearly doubled, according to the American Wind Energy Association. Meanwhile, the oil and gas industry has added 75,000 jobs since Obama took office, according to Labor Department statistics." (Andy Sullivan, "Analysis: Obama's 'Green Jobs' Have Been Slow To Sprout," Reuters, 4/13/12)
  

  