
    Let me just say a few words. And I, first of all, thank you -- thank the leader, Bob Dole, and Don Nickles and everybody for this hospitality. We've got a big and good domestic agenda. I just was up here to get your views, but to urge your support for Fast Track, which is overseas, but it's also domestic because I am convinced that it can create jobs in this country, and I think it's going to be good for the economy of the United States.
I was talking to Senator Thurmond about the crime bill. I am very interested in getting a comprehensive crime package through, and I hope that, with your help, we can do it. I realize the odds are a little difficult, but we want to get that done.
I wanted to mention the veto strategy that Bob Dole and Al Simpson and so many of you have been active in. And it is very important because when we're in a minority, the only way we're going to get something done is to beat down the bad idea before they give us a shot at a good idea. Last year, we were very successful, thanks to the work of everybody around this table. And I just would urge your continued cooperation with the leadership.
Sometimes I know it's easy. Sometimes you can't join us, but for the most part, we've been very good about it, and I just urge your strong support for this veto strategy. It's the only way we can get decent Republican ideas -- and if we don't do it -- kind of disarray and all the chipping away on the Democrat ideas and joining up on something that we know in our hearts isn't good. So, I would strongly urge your support for that.
I know we're moving on transportation and energy. I know Chairman Wallop is working here -- Malcolm's working with us on that. These are all very important. I'm leaving out some.
I would make a pitch for our education strategy, America 2000. Actually, that is being received very, very well across the country. And the Governors, regardless of party, are extraordinarily supportive. I think at the grassroots level, people are beginning to understand that we're not just trying to add more money to a program in Washington, but we've got to revolutionize these schools -- create brand-new schools. It's an exciting prospect, and I urge your strong support.
Later, we'll have a chance to visit a little bit on what's happening overseas. But I just wanted to click off these domestic items because they are vital. I'm sick and tired of people saying we don't have a domestic agenda, because they've got their eyes closed and they don't want to hear -- because we've got a good one. And with your support, we can make a change come to pass. We had a good record last year. The ADA, the crime bill, and child care and other things. And so we can do it this year. We've got to stay together as a team to get the job done.
But thank you all very, very much.
  