
    WASHINGTON- Today, President Obama nominated Judge Christopher Droney for a seat on the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit. Droney currently serves as a United States District Judge for Connecticut.
"At every step of his career Judge Droney has performed with excellence and unwavering integrity," said President Obama. "I am confident he will serve the American people with distinction on the Circuit Court bench."
Judge Christopher Droney: Nominee for the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit
Judge Christopher Droney was born and raised in West Hartford, Connecticut. He attended the College of the Holy Cross, from which he graduated magna cum laude in 1976. He then attended the University of Connecticut School of Law and obtained his J.D. in 1979. While in law school, Judge Droney was the Notes and Comments Editor of the Connecticut Law Review.
From 1979 to 1993, Judge Droney was engaged in the private practice of law in Hartford, Connecticut, specializing in trial work. After graduation from law school, Judge Droney worked in the Hartford office of Day, Berry & Howard (now Day Pitney LLC) as a litigation associate. In 1981, Judge Droney joined the law department of Aetna Life & Casualty for a brief period, where he worked on investment law matters. Following his time at Aetna, Judge Droney joined Buckley & Santos (now Buckley & Seeley, PC). Three years later, he began working at Reid & Riege, becoming a stockholder and officer in 1987. During this period, Judge Droney also served on the Town Council of West Hartford, as Deputy Mayor from 1983 to 1985 and as Mayor from 1985 to 1989.
In 1993, Judge Droney was appointed United States Attorney for the District of Connecticut. On June 5, 1997, President Clinton nominated Judge Droney to the United States District Court for the District of Connecticut. He was confirmed unanimously by the Senate on September 11, 1997 and has served as a United States District Judge since that time.
  