
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate three individuals, appoint six individuals, and designate four individuals to serve in his administration:
The President intends to nominate Christopher William Dell, of New Jersey, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Zimbabwe. A career member of the Senior Foreign Service, Ambassador Dell currently serves as Chief of Mission in Luanda, Angola. He previously served as the designated Chief of Mission to the United States Mission in Pristina, Kosovo. Earlier in his career, Ambassador Dell served as Deputy Chief of Mission in Bulgaria and in Mozambique. He earned his bachelor's degree from Columbia University and his master's degree from Oxford University.
The President intends to appoint Jack Rosen, of New York, to be a Member of the United States Holocaust Memorial Council for the remainder of a five-year term expiring January 15, 2009.
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the Board of Directors of the Vietnam Education Foundation, for the remainder of a three-year term expiring April 17, 2007:
Charles C. Nguyen of Virginia
Van Toi Vo of Massachusetts
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the National Prison Rape Reduction Commission, for the life of the commission:
Nicole Stelle Garnett of Indiana
John A. Kaneb of Massachusetts
Reggie B. Walton of the District of Columbia
The President intends to designate Roger W. Wallace, of Texas, to be Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Inter-American Foundation upon appointment as a Member.
The President intends to nominate the following individuals to be Members of the Board of Directors of the Inter-American Foundation:
Nadine Hogan of Florida, for the remainder of a six-year term expiring June 26, 2008, and upon appointment designate Vice Chairman
Jack Vaughn of Texas, for the remainder of a six-year term expiring September 20, 2006
The President intends to designate the following individuals to the President's National Security Telecommunications Advisory Committee:
F. Duane Ackerman, of Georgia, to be Chairman
Patricia F. Russo, of New Jersey, to be Vice Chairman
  