
    The stellar April jobs report further demonstrates how President Donald J. Trump is delivering results to American workers from nearly every demographic across the country. 
THE WASHINGTON TIMES EDITORIAL BOARD: Good News for Nearly Everyone
"The monthly employment figures compiled by the Labor Department were out on Friday, and they're stunning by anyone's measurement… The good news is reflected across every level of the population. Minority unemployment continues at record low levels; Hispanic unemployment, at 4.2 percent, is at the lowest ever, down from 13 percent in the Obama years. Unemployment has diminished to the vanishing point even for high-school drop-outs. Another good sign is that wage growth has been highest in the low-wage industries."
THE WALL STREET JOURNAL EDITORIAL BOARD: Growth and the Working Class
"Friday's labor report showed employers added 263,000 jobs in April as the unemployment rate dropped to 3.6%, the lowest in five decades. The best news is that the biggest beneficiaries of this tight labor market are the folks who struggled during the slow-growth Obama years… less educated Americans are experiencing faster wage and job growth. Many of the robust job gains came in businesses that hire those with less education… Believe it or not—and liberals won't want to admit it—the evidence is that the faster economic growth of the last two years is reducing income inequality."
WASHINGTON EXAMINER EDITORIAL BOARD: Trump-Era Economy: A Rising Tide Is Lifting All Boats
"And so here's why this week's economic numbers are so great: Clearly, at last, that the regular guy is gaining. Americans without bachelor's degrees (a standard definition of the working class) have just recorded their lowest unemployment rate in almost two decades… Manufacturing wages were up 2.9% year over year, the greatest rise since 2003… Trump has gotten government out of the way, for the most part. In turn, American energy and enterprise has created a rising tide that is lifting all boats."
LEWIS UHLER AND PETER FERRARA IN THE WASHINGTON TIMES: Trump's 'Blue Collar Boom' Continues
"The most salient point of this recovery is that it is raising wages the most for the least-skilled American workers at the bottom of the economic ladder. That is actually reducing inequality, exactly the opposite of Mr. Obama's rhetoric and policies. That is because booming economic growth is the root of prosperity for working people, the opposite of socialism, which produces only poverty, most for the least-skilled workers."
PHILIP KLEIN IN WASHINGTON EXAMINER: Last Time Unemployment Rate Was This Low, Most Americans Weren't Born Yet
"The U.S. unemployment rate has gotten so low, that most Americans were not alive the last time it was at this level. On Friday, the Department of Labor reported that the unemployment rate dipped to 3.6% in April, which was the lowest level since December 1969. That means anybody younger than 49 years and four months hasn't been alive long enough to see the unemployment rate this low."
ADAM BRANDON IN THE WASHINGTON TIMES: 'Expert Opinion' Is Wrong Again
"Thanks to Mr. Trump and the GOP's pro-growth agenda, and despite the partial government shutdown, Americans from every demographic are finding success in today's economy. With more than 2.6 million African-American-owned businesses in the United States today, the past two years have been a boon for African-American entrepreneurship like never before…At the same time, the past two years have been extremely good for women in the workforce and the economy. More than half of the jobs created since January 2018 have gone to women, and women's unemployment is down to 3.8 percent. Pro-growth economic policies have benefited Americans of all stripes more than any government program ever could."
TIANA LOWE IN WASHINGTON EXAMINER: April's Jobs Report Parties Like It's '69
"April's Bureau of Labor Statistics report couldn't possibly spell better news for the American economy. Employers created 263,000 jobs last month, some 40% higher than what economists surveyed by the Wall Street Journal had anticipated. Our seasonally adjusted employment rate plummeted to 3.6%, a level not achieved since 1969. Most astounding is the nation's wage growth. Average hourly earnings have increased by 3.2% over the year."
  