
    Today, President Donald J. Trump announced his intent to nominate:
Danny Lam Nguyen, of the District of Columbia, to serve as an Associate Judge on the Superior Court of the District of Columbia.
Danny Lam Nguyen currently serves as a Trial Attorney in the Criminal Division of the United States Department of Justice in Washington, D.C., where he prosecutes complex financial fraud crimes. Mr. Nguyen previously served as an Assistant United States Attorney in the United States Attorney's Office for the District of Columbia, where he prosecuted cases involving domestic violence and sexual abuse. Mr. Nguyen was previously in private practice with Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale and Dorr, LLP. Upon graduation from law school, Mr. Nguyen served as a law clerk to Judge Reggie B. Walton of the United States District Court for the District of Columbia. Mr. Nguyen earned his B.A. and M.Ed. from the University of California, Los Angeles, and his J.D., magna cum laude, from the Georgetown University Law Center.
John C. Truong, of the District of Columbia, to serve as an Associate Judge on the Superior Court for the District of Columbia.
John Truong currently serves as Senior Litigation Counsel in the Civil Division of the United States Attorney's Office for the District of Columbia, where he prosecutes cases to recover money lost due to fraud and other misconduct. Previously, Mr. Truong represented Federal officials and executive government agencies in civil litigation before Federal courts, and prosecuted criminal offenses. Before joining the United States Attorney's Office, Mr. Truong was in private practice at Morgan, Lewis & Bockius, LLP. Mr. Truong serves as an Adjunct Professor at the George Washington University Law School. Upon graduation from law school, Mr. Truong clerked for Judge Ricardo M. Urbina of the United States District Court for the District of Columbia. Mr. Truong earned his B.A. from the University of Southern California, his M.A. from the American University, and his J.D. from the American University, Washington College of Law.
  