
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
May 20
In the evening, the President attended a dinner for Gov. Howard Dean of Vermont at the Washington Court Hotel. He then attended a Democratic National Committee dinner at the Jefferson Hotel.
The President declared a major disaster in the State of Maine and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms, mudslides, and inland and coastal flooding on April 16-17.
The White House announced the President made available $189.3 million in contingent emergency funding to address urgent needs arising from severe winter flooding in the Northwest, the blizzard and subsequent flooding in the Northeast, and damaging hurricanes.
May 21
In the morning, the President met with the staff of the late Adm. Jeremy M. Boorda at the Pentagon.
In the afternoon, the President had meetings with Prime Minister Mahathir bin Mohamad of Malaysia and President Iberto Fujimori of Peru.
In the evening, the President attended a Democratic National Committee dinner at the Jefferson Hotel.
May 22
In the morning, the President traveled to Groton, CT.
In the afternoon, the President toured the U.S. Coast Guard cutter The Eagle at the U.S. Coast Guard Academy. He then traveled to New York City.
In the evening, the President traveled to Stamford, CT, and then to Milwaukee, WI.
May 23
In the afternoon, the President hosted a reception for Chancellor Helmut Kohl of Germany at the Grain Exchange. Following the reception, the President returned to Washington, DC.
The President declared a major disaster in the State of West Virginia and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by flooding and heavy winds on May 15-21.
The President announced his intention to nominate Jeanne Givens to the Board of Trustees of the Institute of American Indian and Alaska Native Culture and Arts Development.
The President announced his intention to nominate Douglas (Pete) Peterson as Ambassador to Vietnam.
The President announced his intention to appoint Craig O. McCaw and John A. McLuckey as members to the President's National Security Telecommunications Advisory Committee.
May 24
In the morning, the President underwent an annual physical examination at Bethesda Naval Hospital in Bethesda, MD.
The President announced the nomination of Gerald S. McGowan as a member of the Board of Directors of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation.
The President announced the nomination of J. Davitt McAteer to be Solicitor of the Department of Labor.
The President announced the nomination of John Stern Wolf for the rank of Ambassador during his tenure of service as the Coordinator for Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation.
The President announced his intention to reappoint Maurice Sonnenberg and Harold W. Pote to the President's Foreign Intelligence Advisory Board.
  