
    "We are a unique nation, and there is no substitute for our leadership. ... Our future and that of generations to come depend on our resolve to move beyond the divisiveness in Washington today and unite America and our allies to confront a new generation of global challenges." - Gov. Mitt Romney (Gov. Mitt Romney, "Rising To A New Generation Of Global Challenges," Foreign Affairs, July/August 2007)
In The July/August Issue Of Foreign Affairs, Gov. Romney And Sen. Obama Lay Out Their Visions For How America Should Solve A New Generation Of Global Challenges:
Click Here To Read Gov. Mitt Romney's Vision.
Click Here To Read Sen. Barack Obama's Vision.
The Romney Vision: Confront Radical Islam Globally, Truly Transform Our Foreign Policy
Gov. Romney Stresses The Importance Of Winning In Iraq And Defeating Radical Islam Globally. "The congressional debate in Washington has largely, and myopically, focused on whether troops should be redeployed from Iraq to Afghanistan, as if these were isolated issues. Yet the jihad is much broader than any one nation, or even several nations. ... The jihadist threat is the defining challenge of our generation and is symptomatic of a range of new global realities." (Gov. Mitt Romney, "Rising To A New Generation Of Global Challenges," Foreign Affairs, July/August 2007)
Gov. Romney Will Truly Transform Washington's Foreign Policy Practices And Capabilities. "We need to fundamentally change the cultures of our civilian agencies and create dynamic, flexible, and task-based approaches that focus on results rather than bureaucracy. ... For every region, one civilian leader should have authority over and responsibility for all the relevant agencies and departments, similar to the single military commander who heads U.S. Central Command." (Gov. Mitt Romney, "Rising To A New Generation Of Global Challenges," Foreign Affairs, July/August 2007)
Gov. Romney Will Increase The Military By 100,000 Troops And Commits Specific Funding To Do So. "[W]e need to increase our investment in national defense. This means adding at least 100,000 troops and making a long-overdue investment in equipment, armament, weapons systems, and strategic defense. ... [W]e are going to need at least an additional $30-$40 billion annually over the next several years to modernize our military, fill gaps in troop levels, ease the strain on our National Guard and Reserves, and support our wounded soldiers. ... The next president should commit to spending a minimum of four percent of GDP on national defense." (Gov. Mitt Romney, "Rising To A New Generation Of Global Challenges," Foreign Affairs, July/August 2007)
Gov. Romney Believes We Must Become Truly Energy Independent For Our National Security. "We need to initiate a bold, far-reaching research initiative - an energy revolution - that will be our generation's equivalent of the Manhattan Project or the mission to the moon. It will be a mission to create new, economical sources of clean energy and clean ways to use the sources we have now. ... It will be good for our national defense, it will be good for our foreign policy, and it will be good for our economy." (Gov. Mitt Romney, "Rising To A New Generation Of Global Challenges," Foreign Affairs, July/August 2007)
Gov. Romney Believes We Must Revitalize and Strengthen Our Alliances. "The inaction, if not the breakdown, of many Cold War institutions has made many Americans skeptical of multilateralism... But such failures should not obscure the fact that the United States' strength is amplified when it is combined with the strength of other nations. ... [W]here institutions are fundamentally incapable of meeting a new generation of challenges, the United States does not have to go it alone. Instead, we must examine where existing alliances can be strengthened and reinvigorated and where new alliances need to be forged." (Gov. Mitt Romney, "Rising To A New Generation Of Global Challenges," Foreign Affairs, July/August 2007)
Gov. Romney Believes In A Bright Future For The World And Opportunities For American Leadership. "We are a unique nation, and there is no substitute for our leadership. The difficulties we face in Iraq should neither cause us to lose faith in the United States' strength and role in the world nor blind us to the new challenges we face. Our future and that of generations to come depend on our resolve to move beyond the divisiveness in Washington today and unite America and our allies to confront a new generation of global challenges." (Gov. Mitt Romney, "Rising To A New Generation Of Global Challenges," Foreign Affairs, July/August 2007)
The Obama Vision: Disengage From Iraq And The War On Terror, Re-Engage Via Diplomacy
Sen. Obama Calls For A Retreat From Iraq By March 31, 2008, Ignoring Terrorists' Own Statements That Iraq Is The Central Front In The War On Terror. "Iraq was a diversion from the fight against the terrorists who struck us on 9/11, and incompetent prosecution of the war by America's civilian leaders compounded the strategic blunder of choosing to wage it in the first place. ... The best chance we have to leave Iraq a better place is to ... begin a phased withdrawal of U.S. forces, with the goal of removing all combat brigades from Iraq by March 31, 2008..." (Sen. Barack Obama, "Renewing American Leadership," Foreign Affairs, July/August 2007)
Sen. Obama Advocates Economic Engagement, Security Assurances And Diplomatic Relations With Iran. "Our policy of issuing threats and relying on intermediaries to curb Iran's nuclear program, sponsorship of terrorism, and regional aggression is failing. ... [W]e must show Iran - and especially the Iranian people - what could be gained from fundamental change: economic engagement, security assurances, and diplomatic relations." (Sen. Barack Obama, "Renewing American Leadership," Foreign Affairs, July/August 2007)
Sen. Obama Blames America For Carbon Emissions, And Calls For Enacting A Cap-And-Trade System. "As the world's largest producer of greenhouse gases, America has the responsibility to lead. While many of our industrial partners are working hard to reduce their emissions, we are increasing ours at a steady clip - by more than ten percent per decade. As president, I intend to enact a cap-and-trade system that will dramatically reduce our carbon emissions." (Sen. Barack Obama, "Renewing American Leadership," Foreign Affairs, July/August 2007)
Sen. Obama Paints A Dreary Picture Of The Pursuit Of Liberty Across The Globe. "People around the world have heard a great deal of late about freedom on the march. Tragically, many have come to associate this with war, torture, and forcibly imposed regime change." (Sen. Barack Obama, "Renewing American Leadership," Foreign Affairs, July/August 2007)
Sen. Obama Sees A World Of Floods, Famine, And Fighting. "Without dramatic changes, rising sea levels will flood coastal regions around the world, including much of the eastern seaboard. Warmer temperatures and declining rainfall will reduce crop yields, increasing conflict, famine, disease, and poverty. By 2050, famine could displace more than 250 million people worldwide. That means increased instability in some of the most volatile parts of the world." (Sen. Barack Obama, "Renewing American Leadership," Foreign Affairs, July/August 2007)
  