
    President Donald J. Trump today announced his intent to nominate the following individuals key positions in his Administration:
Cherith Norman Chalet of New Jersey, to be Representative of the United States of America to the United Nations (U.N.) for U.N. Management and Reform, with the rank of Ambassador, and as an Alternate Representative of the United States of America to the Sessions of the General Assembly of the United Nations during her tenure of service as Representative of the United States of America to the United Nations for U.N. Management and Reform.
Ms. Chalet has served as the U.N. Management and Reform Counselor for the United States Mission to the U.N. in New York since 2014 and as the Deputy Counselor from 2012 to 2014. She also served as a Special Advisor to the U.S. Mission to the U.N. from 2008 to 2011 and as a Senior Advisor in the State Department's Bureau of Legislative Affairs in Washington, D.C., from 2003 to 2007. Earlier in her career, Ms. Chalet served Congressman Jim DeMint, in Greenville, South Carolina, from 1999 to 2003. Ms. Chalet received her B.A. in 1998 from Bob Jones University in Greenville, South Carolina.
Michael R. Bright of the District of Columbia, to be the President of the Government National Mortgage Association, Department of Housing and Urban Development.
Mr. Bright serves as Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer, and Acting President of the Government National Mortgage Association. Previously, he was the Director for Financial Markets at the Milken Institute and Senior Vice President of BlackRock/PennyMac. Earlier in his career, he served as the Senior Financial Policy Advisor for Senator Bob Corker.
-----
President Donald J. Trump today announced his intent to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the United States Commission on International Religious Freedom:
Gary L. Bauer of Kentucky, for the remainder of a two-year term expiring 5/14/19.
Nadine Maenza of Pennsylvania, for the remainder of a two-year term expiring 5/14/20.
Johnnie Moore of California, for the remainder of a two-year term expiring 5/14/20.
  