
    
  "It's certainly a significant victory," said Jim Azzola of South Portland, Cumberland County coordinator for Paul.

LAKE JACKSON, Texas – Supporters of 2012 Republican Presidential candidate Ron Paul made notable inroads into Maine's GOP infrastructure and secured a majority of delegates to the Republican National Convention to be held in August in Tampa, the AP reports.
Paul wins majority of delegates from Maine GOP
By Glenn Adams, Associated Press
AUGUSTA, Maine (AP) — With Mitt Romney's nomination all but decided, Ron Paul supporters wrested control of the Maine Republican Convention and elected a majority slate supporting the Texas congressman to the GOP national convention, party officials said as the two-day convention neared its end Sunday. The results gave the Texas congressman a late state victory.
The names of 15 at-large delegates from Maine to the GOP nominating convention in Tampa, Fla., were posted Sunday as votes for the other delegation seats remained undecided. Maine is allotted a total of 24 delegates to the national convention.
"It's certainly a significant victory," said Jim Azzola of South Portland, Cumberland County coordinator for Paul. The votes were to become finalized when the convention closes.
Paul, the last challenger to remain in the contest, finished a close second behind Romney in Maine's GOP caucuses in February but those results were nonbinding. Not everyone, however, had a chance to cast a ballot before the results were announced. A snowstorm forced the cancellation of some caucuses including one in a Paul stronghold. Romney won the February straw poll with 39 percent of the vote to Paul's 36 percent. Santorum trailed with 18 percent and Gingrich got 6 percent.
Romney's aides say they do not view Paul as a threat to winning the nomination. But Romney and his team have also been mindful not to do or say anything that might anger Paul's loyal supporters.
"I think he's being very careful because he knows how important the Ron Paul voters are — they obviously represent a very different dynamic," said Mike Dennehy, a former top aide to Republican John McCain's 2008 campaign. "They are the most passionate and the most frustrated of any voters heading to the polls. And many of them are independents."
To read the entire AP story online, click here.
  