
    To the Congress of the United States:
In accordance with Section 812(d) of the Department of Defense Appropriation Authorization Act, 1974 (Public Law 93-155), I am pleased to submit the following report to the Congress on the progress made since my last report on February 20, 1974 in implementing the provisions of Section 812 of the Act cited above.
On April 25, representatives of the United States and the Federal Republic of Germany signed a new offset agreement covering fiscal years 1974 and 1975. The offset to be provided during this two year period is larger in dollar terms and provides more substantial economic benefits to us than any previous offset agreement. At an exchange rate of $1 =DM 2.669, the dollar value of the agreement is approximately $2.22 billion over the two year period.
The composition of the agreement is generally similar to that of previous offset agreements, but there are a number of features that significantly increase its value to the United States, including substantial budgetary relief. As before, German military procurement in the United States represents the largest single element. In the present agreement it amounts to $1.03 billion (at $1.00=DM 2.669). Other attractive features include German willingness to continue funding the rehabilitation of facilities used by American troops in the Federal Republic; to take over the payment of certain real estate taxes and airport charges in connection with US military activities in Germany; to purchase from the US Atomic Energy Commission enriched uranium, including enrichment services; and--for the first time in the framework of an offset agreement--to finance US-German cooperation in science and technology.
As in the case of previous offset agreements, the new agreement makes provision for German purchases of special US Government securities on concessionary terms. The significant interest savings resulting from an $843 million loan over seven years at 2 1/2 percent, together with the above-mentioned German contributions to our troop stationing costs such as troop facilities rehabilitation and absorption of taxes and airport fees, substantially cover the additional costs we bear by deploying our forces in the Federal Republic rather than in the United States.
Benefits contained in the agreement constitute the major element in the effort to meet the requirements of Section 812. The agreement is the product of many months of difficult negotiations, involving not only the negotiators appointed by our two governments, but also personal exchanges at the highest levels of the two governments.
In my last report to the Congress, I stated that US expenditures entering the balance of payments as a result of the deployment of forces in NATO Europe in fulfillment of treaty commitments and obligations in FY 1974 are estimated to be approximately $2.1 billion. That estimate still holds.
I anticipate that the bilateral offset agreement with the Federal Republic of Germany, together with arrangements involving other Allies, will meet the requirements of Section 812. This will permit us to maintain our forces in NATO Europe at present levels. In this connection, I would like to point out that the NATO study on allied procurement plans, which I referred to in my last report to the Congress, indicates that allied military procurement from the U.S. in FY 1974 will be significant despite the fact that many of our Allies have suffered a worsening in their trade balance and face the possibility of even greater deterioration. I will provide the Congress with further information on satisfying the requirements of Section 812 in my August report.
RICHARD NIXON
The White House,
May 16, 1974.
  