
    President Donald J. Trump today announced his intent to appoint G. Keith Bryant to the Department of Homeland Security.
G. Keith Bryant of Oklahoma will serve as the Administrator of the United States Fire Administration at the Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security. Chief Bryant is the past president of the International Association of Fire Chiefs (IAFC), past president of the Metropolitan Fire Chiefs Association, and past president of the Oklahoma Fire Chiefs Association (OFCA). He is also a member of the National Fire Protection Association (NFPA). Currently, he serves on the National Fallen Firefighters Advisory Committee and Advisory Board for the Municipal Fire Protection Program (OSU-OKC). He also serves on the Board of Directors of the Central Oklahoma Chapter of the American Red Cross, YMCA of Greater OKC, and chairs the Oklahoma City National Memorial Conscience Committee. Governor Brad Henry appointed him to the Oklahoma State Fire Marshals Commission in July 2006.
----------
President Donald J. Trump Announces Intent to Nominate Elizabeth Erin Walsh to the Department of Commerce
President Donald J. Trump today announced his intent to nominate Elizabeth Erin Walsh to the Department of Commerce.
If confirmed, Elizabeth Erin Walsh of the District of Columbia will serve as Assistant Secretary and Director General of the United States and Foreign Commercial Service, Department of Commerce. Ms. Walsh currently serves as Special Assistant to the President and Associate Director for Presidential Personnel. She has had an extensive career in the international arena in both the private and public sectors. Ms. Walsh has served more than 12 years in the Federal Government, including at the Department of State, U.S. Mission to the United Nations, and the Department of Energy. She also worked at the United Nations, serving 18 months in Bosnia, during the war. At the Department of State, Ms. Walsh was a senior advisor in the Bureau of Near Eastern Affairs. Ms. Walsh has spent 12 years in the private sector at Cisco and Goldman Sachs. She holds a Bachelor of Arts degree in Government and International Relations from Georgetown University and a Master of Science degree from the London School of Economics and Political Science.
  