
    STATEMENT OF ADMINISTRATION POLICY
(House Rules)(Rep. Lowey, D-NY, and 11 cosponsors)
The Administration opposes H.R. 6800, the Health Economic Recovery Omnibus Emergency Solutions (HEROES) Act. Throughout the coronavirus outbreak, the Administration has worked tirelessly to mobilize our Nation's vast resources. On four separate occasions, the President has worked with Congress in a bipartisan manner to respond to the outbreak by enacting legislation of unprecedented size and breadth. The President has signed legislation that includes almost $2.5 trillion in spending to improve public health, support small businesses, and bridge the gap for individuals and families as they deal with the challenges presented by the coronavirus. This proposed legislation, however, is more concerned with delivering on longstanding partisan and ideological wishlists than with enhancing the ability of our Nation to deal with the public health and economic challenges we face. As a result, the Administration cannot support H.R. 6800 as currently drafted.
Among other misguided provisions, H.R. 6800 would provide a windfall to wealthy taxpayers in high-tax States. At the same time, it would raise taxes on struggling small businesses by limiting deductibility of losses. This bill would also provide a $25 billion bailout to the United States Postal Service without requiring any much-needed long-term reforms and would encroach upon State authority over elections by providing for Federal vote-by-mail, same-day registration, and other election mandates that invite voter fraud. This legislation would also send Economic Impact Payments to illegal aliens and establish dangerous restrictions on immigration enforcement, including deportations, during the public health emergency. Finally, H.R. 6800 proposes changes to the Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act (COBRA) and other policies that undermine the sanctity of life.
The Administration remains committed to working with Congress in a bipartisan manner to address any potential additional legislation needed to respond to the coronavirus outbreak. When additional legislation is contemplated, it should include a payroll tax holiday, safe-harbor provisions to protect businesses from frivolous lawsuits, permitting reform to facilitate infrastructure projects, and other policies to spur our economic comeback.
If H.R. 6800 were presented to the President, his advisors would recommend that he veto the bill.
  