
    Gina Haspel is strongly qualified to lead the CIA and has the support of the dedicated career civil servants at the CIA, Republican and Democrat intelligence experts, and foreign allies in the intelligence community.
THE WALL STREET JOURNAL EDITORIAL BOARD: Gina Haspel's CIA Crucible
"Ms. Haspel started as a case officer in Africa and after assignments around the world in its operations directorate became deputy director in 2017. Ms. Haspel is the first CIA officer in more than five decades to reach the top position. She won the confidence of former director Mike Pompeo as his deputy, so the agency's leadership transition would be straightforward ... The people misrepresenting the CIA nominee were in the cheap seats during the worst days of the war on terror. Ms. Haspel didn't have that luxury."
NEW YORK POST EDITORIAL BOARD: The Pathetic Push to Torpedo Gina Haspel
"Haspel would be not only the first woman to head the CIA, but also the first career officer in 52 years to rise through the ranks directly to the director's chair. Little wonder that she's won the enthusiastic support of past CIA directors from both parties ... She has headed four CIA stations across the globe, been a senior official in the CIA's Russia operation, held several top roles in the division responsible for covert operations and, post-9/11, was a senior-level supervisor in counterterrorism. Her integrity — and, significantly, her political impartiality — are unchallenged ... Gina Haspel, quite simply, is one of Trump's most capable and distinguished appointments. She deserves quick confirmation — without partisan theatrics."
THE WEEKLY STANDARD EDITORIAL BOARD: If Not Haspel, Who?
"... [T]he [P]resident chose an accomplished and well-liked intelligence professional to head the CIA. The choice was made at the behest of former CIA director Mike Pompeo. Michael Hayden, former head of both the CIA and the National Security Agency under George W. Bush, applauds the choice. So does James Clapper, former director of national intelligence under Barack Obama. So does John Brennan, CIA director under Obama and a fierce critic of the current president."
COMMENTARY WRITER TOM ROGAN IN WASHINGTON EXAMINER: The Intelligence Community, Here and Abroad, Has Gina Haspel's Back. Here's Why.
"Gina Haspel, President Trump's pick to lead the CIA, is good at her job because she cultivates alliances and counters adversaries. That's the story of Haspel's 33-year career as [a] CIA operations officer, which has seen her serve as the agency's chief of station (the U.S. intelligence community's top officer in embassies abroad) on four separate occasions. This includes two stints as the CIA's station chief in London; once from 2008-2011 and again from 2014-2017."
FORMER CIA OFFICER MARK SPARKMAN IN THE HILL: In the CIA, Gina Haspel Found Her Calling: Protecting Our Country and Freedoms
"I am confident Gina Haspel will be an excellent leader for the agency and a great addition to the upper ranks of our intelligence community and foreign affairs team. She has the requisite experience and is respected throughout the national security establishment. Notably, she is unafraid to speak the truth, regardless of the setting or audience. She is a consummate professional who always puts mission and the interests of the republic first."
FORMER OBAMA ADMINISTRATION DEFENSE DEPARTMENT AND CIA CHIEF OF STAFF JEREMY BASH AT NBC NEWS: Gina Haspel is the Rare CIA Director Nominee that Both Parties Should Love
"We need more people like Gina Haspel. Democrats and progressive organizations should be encouraged that a nonpartisan, professional woman has been nominated to be CIA director ... Confirming Gina Haspel would send exactly the right signal to the intelligence community and the rest of the country about the importance of professional intelligence and service over self."
9/11 FAMILY MEMBER DEBRA BURLINGAME IN THE WALL STREET JOURNAL: Obama's Prosecutor Vouches for Haspel's CIA
"Ms. Haspel has accumulated an exemplary record of achievement in her 33 years with the agency. She answered the call on 9/11. How can Congress expect dedicated CIA officers to protect the country from future attacks, then seek to destroy them politically for doing just that? Senators must show that they respect, support and understand the mission of our defenders by voting to confirm Gina Haspel."
COLUMNIST DEBRA SAUNDERS IN LAS VEGAS REVIEW-JOURNAL: Senate Faces Clear Choice in Vote on Nominee for CIA Chief
"The U.S. Senate faces a clear choice as it prepares to confirm — or reject — Acting CIA Director Gina Haspel as the permanent head spook. Confirm Haspel and get a chief who will encourage staff to do their utmost to uncover what they need to know to protect this country ... The Haspel resistance is all about scoring points — and it ignores the input of a long list of national-security luminaries from both parties who urged the Senate to confirm Haspel. The list includes former Sen. Bob Kerrey, D-Neb., and Obama CIA director Leon Panetta."
  