
    Members of Congress
Speaker of the House Paul Ryan (R-WI): "Today, more than five decades after the reunification of Jerusalem, this holy city will be home to our embassy. This is concrete affirmation of America's commitment to the Jewish state and her people. America stands with Israel in recognizing Jerusalem as its eternal capital."
Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer (D-NY): "In a long overdue move, we have moved our embassy to Jerusalem. Every nation should have the right to choose its capital. I sponsored legislation to do this two decades ago, and I applaud President Trump for doing it."
House Majority Whip Steve Scalise (R-LA): "The U.S. finally followed through on a commitment made decades ago to stand with the Jewish State of Israel and move our embassy to Jerusalem. By taking this important action, @POTUS has followed through on a promise other leaders have merely paid lip service to for years."
House Foreign Affairs Committee Chairman Ed Royce (R-CA): "A bipartisan majority in Congress has been calling for this important action since the 1990s. Israel is one of our closest security partners. The United States will not allow it to be isolated. Nor will we stand by idly as its enemies seek to wipe it from the map. Together, Israelis and Americans will continue to promote peace and stability in a very dangerous region."
House Foreign Affairs Committee Ranking Member Eliot Engel (D-NY): "I welcome the opening of the United States embassy in Jerusalem, the eternal capital of the Jewish people and the State of Israel. This move is long overdue, and I look forward to visiting ... I look forward to the construction of a permanent embassy, and as Ranking Member of the Foreign Affairs Committee, I will do everything in my power to support the next steps."
Sen. Marco Rubio (R-FL): "Today is truly a historic day for America's unbreakable alliance with the State of Israel ... The unequivocal recognition of Jerusalem as Israel's capital comes after presidents in both parties stalled our embassy's rightful relocation to Jerusalem from Tel Aviv. So I truly appreciate the Trump Administration for implementing U.S. law and finally moving our embassy."
Sen. David Perdue (R-GA): "Jerusalem is unquestionably Israel's capital, and it's past time the United States recognize that fact. I applaud President Trump for fulfilling yet another promise he made to the American people. After eight years of weak support from the Obama Administration, this president's actions send a powerful message to the world – the United States stands shoulder to shoulder with Israel."
Sen. Dean Heller (R-NV): "We fought with President Trump to finally make this a reality and now the U.S. embassy in Israel is where it should be, in Jerusalem. It was a privilege to be there for the opening and celebration on this historic day."
Sen. Rob Portman (R-OH): "#Jerusalem has always been the capital of Israel. I've long supported moving the U.S. embassy there, and am pleased to finally see the new U.S. embassy opening in #Jerusalem today."
Sen. Pat Toomey (R-PA): "Today, one of our closest allies and partners in peace in the Middle East, Israel, celebrates its 70th year of independence. It is fitting to mark this occasion by opening our embassy in Israel's rightful capital, Jerusalem."
Sen. Lindsey Graham (R-SC): "For over 20 years, it has been American policy to recognize Jerusalem as the capital, but it wasn't until today – and the leadership of President @realDonaldTrump – that we had an embassy in Jerusalem."
Sen. Mike Rounds (R-SD): "Today is a historic day. Moving our embassy to #Jerusalem – the one, true capital of Israel – sends a strong message that the U.S. and Israel's bond is unshakable."
Sen. Ted Cruz (R-TX): "I have long advocated that the United States take this action, and commend President Trump for fulfilling this campaign promise. Presidents of both parties had made the same promise, and repeatedly failed to follow through. Finally, 70 years later, America is at last recognizing Israel's true capital."
Rep. Bradley Byrne (R-AL): "An exciting day for the US-Israel partnership as we celebrate the opening of @USEmbassyJLM!"
Rep. Martha Roby (R-AL): "What a historic day for the United States and our great ally Israel - I am proud that the U.S. Embassy has officially been opened in Jerusalem, and I look forward to years of continued friendship between our nations."
Rep. Mike Rogers (R-AL): "Thank you, @realDonaldTrump! Congrats to Israel!"
Rep. Andy Biggs (R-AZ): "A historic day for the United States and Israel. I again applaud @POTUS @realDonaldTrump for his decision to move the U.S. embassy to Israel, and I pray for a peaceful transition. #USEmbassyJerusalem"
Rep. Paul Gosar (R-AZ): "On the 70th anniversary of the founding of Israel, the relocating of the US Embassy to #Jerusalem sends a clear message that America stands with Israel."
Rep. Doug Lamborn (R-CO): "America continues to stand with Israel. May God bless the embassy move! This is a great day for Israel, America, and the world."
Rep. Ron DeSantis (R-FL): "The establishment of our embassy in Jerusalem fulfills long-standing US policy as enacted by the Jerusalem Embassy Act of 1995. It was an honor to be there at this historic occasion! Thanks President Trump for being first president to honor his promise to establish this embassy."
Rep. Brian Mast (R-FL): "Like every other sovereign nation, Israel has the right to determine its own capital. The United States is finally recognizing the truth by moving our embassy to the center of freedom in the Middle East and the capital of Israel, Jerusalem!"
Rep. Doug Collins (R-GA): "America's new embassy in Jerusalem testifies to our enduring relationship with Israel and its people. Again, @POTUS makes a good promise and keeps it, to the benefit of our country and our ally."
Rep. Jim Banks (R-IN): "Today is a historic day as the U.S. opens our embassy in Jerusalem – the rightful capital of Israel. America is proud to stand with our cherished ally."
Rep. Todd Rokita (R-IN): "This embassy move demonstrates our commitment to both our strong ally and our commitment to peace. We will always stand with the nation of Israel."
Rep. Ralph Abraham (R-LA): "President Trump kept his promises by moving the embassy to Israel's rightful capital, Jerusalem. This is a bold, courageous move shows that the US & Israel are repairing the special relationship that was strained under Obama. The world is safer when our countries work together."
Rep. Paul Mitchell (R-MI): "After years of promises by previous Administrations, today — on the 70th anniversary of the founding of the State of Israel — the United States is finally moving it's embassy to Israel's capital of Jerusalem."
Rep. Vicki Hartzler (R-MO): "Historic day as the U.S. moves our embassy to #Jerusalem. Is long overdue to recognize Jerusalem as the Capitol of Israel."
Rep. Gregg Harper (R-MS): "Breaking News: U.S. opens embassy in Jerusalem. Thank you @POTUS for standing up for Israel."
Rep. Patrick McHenry (R-NC): "Historic day in Israel. Since 1995, it has been the law that the American Embassy should be relocated to Jerusalem, Israel's eternal capital. Thank you to @POTUS for finally making this long overdue move, a reality."
Rep. Mark Meadows (R-NC): "America stands with Israel once again. Honored to witness an amazing moment in history this morning as the United States opens our Embassy in Jerusalem--Israel's true undivided capital."
Rep. Mark Walker (R-NC): "Today, we finally recognize Jerusalem as Israel's capital. Thanks @POTUS."
Rep. Peter King (R-NY): "Historic day for USA and Israel as American Embassy opens in Jerusalem. Congrats to @POTUS Trump and @netanyahu for standing tall to do what is morally and strategically right."
Rep. Lou Barletta (R-PA): "Today @realDonaldTrump fixed decades of broken promises by other presidents [with] the opening of our embassy in Israel's capital. Today we clearly recognized the Jewish people's historical connection to Jerusalem and reaffirmed America's alliance [with] Israel."
Rep. Tom Rice (R-SC): "The front page of the Jerusalem Post says it all: Promises Made, Promises KEPT!"
Rep. Marsha Blackburn (R-TN): "Jerusalem is the eternal capital of Israel and that's where our embassy belongs. Thank you @realDonaldTrump for another promise kept."
Rep. Jeb Hensarling (R-TX): "This is a powerfully historic moment in time. Along with the recognition of Jerusalem as Israel's rightful and eternal capital, the dedication ceremony that took place is an enormous milestone in history not only for Israel but for America as well."
Rep. Tom Garrett (R-VA): "Despite Congress consistently voting in favor of recognizing #Jerusalem as #Israel's capital, every president since 1995 has delayed the #JerusalemEmbassy Act. Glad to see the president fulfill the promises that we, as a Nation, have made to Israel."
Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA): "Israel is our greatest friend and ally in the Middle East, a country whose history and culture are at the center of our civilization. Now the U.S. Embassy officially and proudly stands in its capital, the great holy city of Jerusalem."
Rep. David McKinley (R-WV): "We applaud President Trump for taking this action and for his commitment to strengthening the bond between our two nations."
Cabinet Members and Administration Officials
Secretary of State Mike Pompeo: "Today I am proud to celebrate the opening of the United States Embassy to Israel in Jerusalem. This significant event fulfills a promise made by President Trump. As he proclaimed on December 6, 2017, 'Seventy years ago, the United States, under President Truman, recognized the State of Israel. Since then, the State of Israel has made its capital in Jerusalem — the capital the Jewish people established in ancient times. It is therefore appropriate for the United States to recognize Jerusalem as Israel's capital.' We remain committed to advancing a lasting and comprehensive peace between Israel and the Palestinians. I am delighted to have visited Israel on my first trip overseas as Secretary of State. I look forward to returning soon to visit our new U.S. embassy and Ambassador Friedman in Jerusalem."
Secretary of the Treasury Steven Mnuchin: "Seventy years ago, the U.S. recognized the State of Israel and we are thrilled to mark such a significant anniversary with the move of the #USEmbassyJerusalem."
Deputy Secretary of State John Sullivan: "The opening of the #USEmbassyJerusalem is a long overdue recognition of reality. It is also essential to creating a roadmap for peace in this region."
United States Ambassador to Israel David Friedman: "So many have worked so hard and for so long for this day to come and they all deserve our thanks. But make no mistake, today's historic event is attributed to the vision, the courage, and the moral clarity of one person to whom we owe an enormous and eternal debt of gratitude, President Donald J. Trump."
Senior Advisor to the President Jared Kushner: "While Presidents before him have backed down from their pledge to move the American Embassy once in office, this President delivered. Because when President Trump makes a promise, he keeps it."
State Officials
Gov. Asa Hutchinson (R-AR): "Today is an extraordinary chapter in America's long-time friendship with Israel. I applaud @realDonaldTrump for keeping his promise by opening the U.S. Embassy in Israel's capital of Jerusalem. This is an important step & necessary condition to achieve lasting peace in the area."
Gov. Rick Scott (R-FL): "Proud to join @netanyahu to celebrate the U.S. Embassy being moved to Jerusalem, where it belongs. Today is a great day for Florida, Israel and the United States. FL will continue to stand with Israel."
Gov. Jeff Colyer (R-KS): "In honor of today's historic embassy opening, I am proud to have signed a proclamation declaring it Jerusalem Day in the State of Kansas. Thank you @POTUS for making this day happen!"
Gov. Matt Bevin (R-KY): "The world witnessed a historic moment today ... Thankful for the leadership shown by @POTUS' administration in honoring this long-standing promise between the United States and Israel."
Gov. Greg Abbott (R-TX): "Today's groundbreaking for the relocated U.S. embassy in Israel is a monumental event and one that is long overdue. It's a great day for Israel and for the U.S."
Gov. Henry McMaster (R-SC): "Today we celebrate the historic opening of the U.S. Embassy in Jerusalem and underscore our nation's commitment to one of our closest allies. President Trump fulfilling this important promise is a clear victory for freedom and liberty."
Lt. Gov. Rebecca Kleefisch (R-WI): "We stand with Israel again today as the United States reaffirms its historic commitment in a new way by opening its embassy in Jerusalem."
Israeli Officials
Prime Minister of Israel Benjamin Netanyahu: "Thank you, President Trump, for having the courage to keep your promises. Thank you, President Trump for making the alliance between Israel and the United States stronger than ever."
President of Israel Reuven Rivlin: "President Trump, the Israeli people thank you for keeping your word, for your courage, for your determination, and for your firm, unwavering stand alongside the state of Israel."
Israeli Minister of Education and Minister for Diaspora Affairs Naftali Bennett: "President Trump: On behalf of the Israeli People, and the grateful & ancient Jewish Nation, You will forever be remembered as ????? ?????— 'The Great Friend' of the Jewish State. God bless you, God bless America and Israel, and God bless Jerusalem!"
Advocacy and Policy Organizations 
American Israel Public Affairs Committee (AIPAC): "We are grateful to President Trump for officially recognizing Jerusalem—the historic and spiritual capital of the Jewish people for more than 3,000 years—as Israel's capital last December and for opening our embassy there today."
American Jewish Committee (AJC): "For decades, American leaders said they would acknowledge truth & recognize #Jerusalem as the capital of [Israel]. They promised but they didn't deliver. Today it happened. Israel is no longer the only country in the world denied the right to choose its own capital. Thank goodness."
Anti-Defamation League (ADL) CEO Jonathan Greenblatt: "ADL long has advocated for this recognition. We express our deep appreciation to the Trump Administration and the U.S. Government for making and implementing this long overdue move."
B'nai B'rith International: "Today we celebrate the U.S.-Israel relationship, which is now stronger than ever."
Concerned Women for America Legislative Action Committee President and CEO Penny Nance: "Thank you, President Trump, for making good on your promise to the American people, to Israel, and for paving the way for other nations to follow our example."
Faith & Freedom Coalition Chairman Ralph Reed: "We are deeply grateful to President Trump for finally recognizing the reality that Jerusalem is the eternal, indivisible capital of Israel, the homeland of the Jewish people, and that the United States Embassy belongs in Jerusalem, the seat of the Israeli government. The President continues to deliver on his promise to the American people to strengthen the solidarity between the United States and the people of Israel. We are so grateful for President Trump's pro-Israel stance and his bold leadership in opening the new U.S. embassy in Jerusalem."
Family Research Council President Tony Perkins: "This is a very significant day. For over 20 yrs it's been the stated policy of the U.S. to recognize Jerusalem as the capital of Israel, but until now we haven't had an administration willing to make that move. This sends a strong message that America stands by her ally, Israel."
Republican Jewish Coalition National Chairman Norm Coleman: "This is a day that the RJC has been working towards for over thirty years. But the credit for today goes to our President, Donald J. Trump. We have been told by administrations, both Republican and Democrat, that they would take this monumental step, only to be disappointed every six months, when a President would sign another waiver. Not President Trump: he made sure that this year we are finally in Jerusalem!"
  