
    WASHINGTON, DC – Today, President Obama nominated Judge Frank Paul Geraci, Jr. and Judge Fernando M. Olguin to serve on the United States District Court.
"I am honored to put forward these highly qualified candidates for the federal bench," President Obama said. "They will be distinguished public servants and valuable additions to the United States District Court."
Judge Frank Paul Geraci, Jr.: Nominee for the United States District Court for the Western District of New York
Judge Frank Paul Geraci, Jr. has served as a Monroe County Court Judge in Rochester, New York since 1999, where he primarily handles criminal felony matters. From 1992 through 1998, he was a judge on the Rochester City Court, where he presided over various types of civil cases, criminal misdemeanors, and pre-trial felony matters. Judge Geraci was a partner at the Law Firm of Geraci & Feldman from 1987 until his election to the bench. Previously, he served as an Assistant United States Attorney in the Western District of New York from 1983 to 1987 and as a Special Assistant District Attorney in the Monroe County District Attorney's Office from 1978 to 1983. Judge Geraci received his J.D. in 1977 from the University of Dayton Law School and his B.A. in 1973 from the University of Dayton.
Judge Fernando M. Olguin: Nominee for the United States District Court for the Central District of California
Judge Fernando M. Olguin currently serves as a United States Magistrate Judge for the Central District of California, a position he has held since 2001. Previously, he spent six years as a named partner in the firm of Traber, Voorhees & Olguin, where he primarily handled housing and employment matters. From 1994 to 1995, he was the Education Program Director at the Mexican-American Legal Defense and Education Fund. Judge Olguin was a Trial Attorney in the Civil Rights Division of the United States Department of Justice from 1991 to 1994. He began his legal career as a law clerk to the Honorable Carl A. Muecke of the United States District Court for the District of Arizona. Judge Olguin received his J.D. and M.A. in 1989 from the University of California at Berkeley and his B.A. with honors in 1985 from Harvard University.
  