
    MRS. TRUMP: Thank you. Thank you all for being here today. I'm honored to host everyone at the White House to celebrate you, mothers. Please sit down.
Mother's Day, which is this Sunday, is celebrated just one time per year. I don't know about all of you, but I think mothers should be celebrated each and every day. (Applause.)
As a mother myself, I know what goes into raising a child. It takes an incredible amount of strength, a lot of time, a generous amount of patience, and all of your love. As moms, we are so incredibly privileged to be able to bring children into this world and be part of helping them grow into adults.
Children bring us endless amount of both joy and fear, they fill us with pride through their triumphs, and they love us in a manner that only other mothers can understand.
Because of the powerful bond between a mother and her child, when they feel emotions, so do we. Whether they are happy or nervous, sad or excited, we feel those things with them. I think it is one of the most powerful and beautiful parts of motherhood.
Today, I want to take this opportunity to let you all know that as mothers who are members of the military community, you deserve recognition for not only your love for your children, but for the dedication and sacrifice you make on behalf of our country each and every day.
I know I speak on behalf of my husband, the Vice President, and Mrs. Pence when I tell you how much this administration supports all those who serve, which includes not only those who are enlisted, but their families too.
In closing, I want to thank you all for your unique roles as a military mother. Whether you are enlisted, actively serving, or if you have a child in our military, you are such a special part of this country for all that you give. I hope you enjoy today's performance by the United States Army Chorus, and we are so honored to have you here today.
Before I turn this over to my husband, I want to thank our Second Lady, Karen Pence, as well as Kellyanne and Ivanka, for all of the hard work they have done on the executive order he will be signing.
Because of your commitment to the military, there will be more opportunities for military spouses who are looking for jobs within federal government. Thank you, ladies, for your hard work on this important topic. (Applause.)
Thank you all again for being here today. And now it's my pleasure to introduce my husband, the President of the United States. (Applause.)
  