
    Today, ahead of the state's June 2 primary, Maryland Senators Ben Cardin and Chris Van Hollen, as well as former Senator Barbara Mikulski, released the following statements endorsing Joe Biden for President of the United States. Marylanders are encouraged to mail in their Democratic Primary ballots (postmarked by June 2) or drop them off today through June 2 in one of the designated election drop boxes available in each county.
"Without question, this is the most consequential election of my lifetime," said Senator Ben Cardin. "Our nation craves a leader who can bring us together during these difficult times. We need a leader with empathy and understanding who honors core American values of opportunity and equality. We need a steady hand and someone who trusts experts and science and puts the health and welfare of our country before himself. Joe Biden is such a leader. Joe Biden is a public servant who can get our country back on track and restore American leadership at home and around the globe. Elections do have consequences and, for the sake of all Marylanders and the entire country, we cannot get this next one wrong. I am supporting my friend and former colleague, Joe Biden, for President of the United States."
"As our country faces deep uncertainty, one thing is clear — we need a steady hand and true leader to navigate the storm and chart our future course," said Senator Van Hollen. "Joe Biden has spent decades fighting to ensure that every individual can earn a good wage, retire with dignity, and participate in the American Dream. From his efforts to provide affordable, accessible health care to millions, to his work to create good-paying jobs — he has not once forgotten where he's from and who he's fighting for. As our nation battles the coronavirus and its painful economic fallout, there is no one better prepared to lead America out of this crisis and into a brighter future. Joe will heal the wounds of division and unite all Americans behind our common vision of a country where everyone counts and everyone has a fair shot of achieving their dreams for themselves and their families. I've worked closely with Joe for years, and I'm proud to stand with him now as we do everything in our power to elect him President of the United States."
"I have been both a colleague and friend to Joe Biden for many years. I have seen what he has done to make the world a better place and to make our country safer, with a stronger economy, and better access to healthcare," said former Senator Barbara A. Mikulski. "He brings experience and empathy. He will fight to make sure that America not only goes back to work, but that America works for every American. He knows how to build the teams and alliances – at home and around the world – we need to get the job done. Joe Biden knows how to work on the big picture but never forgets the little guy and the little gal, which is why I am proud to endorse him for President of the United States."
Nationally, Biden for President has previously announced more than 3,000 endorsements from national, state, and local leaders, including current and former U.S. senators and representatives, governors, state elected officials, community leaders, and national security professionals.
  