
    Key Reasons General Hayden Is The Right Pick:
General Hayden Is One Of The Most Qualified Candidates Ever To Be Nominated To Head The CIA.


    After More Than 20 Years Of Experience In The Intelligence Business, General Hayden Has Extensive Experience As Both A Provider And Customer Of Intelligence.


    General Hayden Has Broad And Deep Experience In Human And Technical Intelligence. He has served as Director of the National Security Agency, Commander of the Air Force Intelligence Agency, and Director of the Joint Command and Control Warfare Center these positions required a comprehensive understanding of intelligence collection and analysis. He also served in the U.S. Embassy in the former People's Republic of Bulgaria during the Cold War, where he trained with the CIA and collected human intelligence.

General Hayden Has Developed A Reputation As A Broad, Strategic Thinker. During President George H.W. Bush's Administration, he served in the National Security Council as Director for Defense Policy.

General Hayden Is A Reformer Who Can Fulfill The President's And Congress' Mandate To Reform The Intelligence Community And The CIA.


    As The Principal Deputy Director Of National Intelligence, General Hayden Has Worked Closely With The Director Of National Intelligence To Reform America's Intelligence Capabilities To Confront The Threats Of A New Century.

After September 11, General Hayden Quickly Understood The National Security Agency Needed To Reform To Meet The New Threats Of The 21st Century. He launched a series of reforms to get more analysts trained in languages used by the enemy and overhauled our capabilities to help prevent future attacks.

General Hayden's Broad Experience And Leadership Qualities Make Him The Right Man To Lead The CIA At This Critical Moment In Our Nation's History.


    As Principal Deputy Director Of National Intelligence, General Hayden Is Responsible For Overseeing The Day-To-Day Activities Of The National Intelligence Program. In this role, he has a clear understanding of the entire intelligence community and how best to integrate its distinct capabilities.

General Hayden Is Described As An Independent Thinker And A Nonconformist. General Hayden thrived as a manager leading a large and complex organization in the NSA, which is larger than the CIA, as he set out to prepare the NSA for the 21st Century.

Background On General Michael V. Haden
General Michael V. Hayden, USAF, Was Appointed Principal Deputy Director Of National Intelligence (PDDNI) By President George W. Bush On April 21, 2005. He is the first person to ever serve in this position. As the PDDNI, General Hayden is responsible for overseeing the day-to-day activities of the national intelligence program. With his appointment as PDDNI, General Hayden received his fourth star, making him the highest-ranking military intelligence officer in the Armed Forces.
General Hayden Entered Active Duty In 1969 After Earning A Bachelor's Degree In History In 1967 And A Master's Degree In Modern American History In 1969, Both From Duquesne University. He is a distinguished graduate of the Reserve Officer Training Corps program. The General has served as Commander of the Air Intelligence Agency and Director of the Joint Command and Control Warfare Center, both headquartered at Kelly Air Force Base, TX. He has also served in senior staff positions in the Pentagon; Headquarters U.S. European Command, Stuttgart, Germany; the National Security Council, Washington, D.C.; and the U.S. Embassy in the former People's Republic of Bulgaria; and Deputy Chief of Staff for United Nations Command and U.S. Forces Korea, Yongsan Army Garrison. Prior to his current assignment, he served as Director, National Security Agency/Chief, Central Security Service (NSA/CSS), Fort George G. Meade, MD.
  