
    "Through cutting taxes, rolling back overly burdensome regulations, supporting workforce development and enhancing opportunities in rural America, this administration is showing that a thriving economy creates an even stronger America."
Linda McMahon: SBA boosts woman's dream to expand business
By Administrator Linda McMahon
Fox News
May 3, 2018
Rebecca Fyffe just expanded her Chicago-area pest control business, moving to a new warehouse that enables her to buy supplies in bulk and price her services more competitively. And as demand rises for science-based pest control practices that better protect both the environment and public health, she's already planning her next phase of growth – expanding beyond Illinois.
"We really couldn't be where we are today without SBA assistance," she said. "They've helped us in every phase of our growth process."
...
National Small Business Week celebrates entrepreneurs like Fyffe and all of our nation's 30 million small businesses, which employ nearly 59 million Americans. Nearly half of our private workforce works for a small business, and small businesses create two out of every three net new jobs in the private sector each year.
Entrepreneurs are not just job creators; they are innovators and problem-solvers, creating products and services that are better, smarter or more efficient than what came before.
...
The SBA is working to help even more entrepreneurs create solutions to meet consumer demand. It is the nation's only go-to resource for small business, backed by the strength and support of the federal government, and providing entrepreneurs with the tools they need to succeed.
...
As head of the SBA, I am honored to work with President Trump as an ally and advocate – ensuring small businesses can compete and thrive in a local, national and global marketplace.
Through cutting taxes, rolling back overly burdensome regulations, supporting workforce development and enhancing opportunities in rural America, this administration is showing that a thriving economy creates an even stronger America.
This is a terrific time for entrepreneurship, and the SBA is working to power the American Dream by removing barriers to small businesses.
...
Read the full op-ed here.
  