
    "When President Obama kicks off his campaign today in Columbus, he still needs to answer for the promises he made to Ohioans nearly four years ago. From skyrocketing gas prices to increasing insurance premiums, President Obama's economic policies have failed Ohio families and demonstrated that this President does not have what it takes to get our economy moving again." –Ryan Williams, Romney Campaign Spokesman
Today, President Obama Will Formally Kick Off His Re-Election With A Campaign Event In Ohio:
President Obama Will Kick Off His Re-Election Campaign With An Event In Columbus, Ohio. "Mitt Romney's campaign is working hard to steal President Barack Obama's spotlight this weekend, when the president is set to hold the first major rallies of his 2012 re-election campaign. At Ohio State University in Columbus, where Obama is set to speak around 1:25 p.m. ET on Saturday, Romney aides are planning to circle the candidate's campaign bus." (Holly Bailey, "Obama's Re-Election Rallies On Saturday To Be Blitzed By Romney Campaign," Yahoo News, 5/4/12)
But President Obama Still Hasn't Lived Up To The Promises He Made To Ohio Voters During His Last Campaign:
Candidate Obama, In Ohio: "It's Gotten Harder And Harder To ... Fill Up Your Gas Tank..." OBAMA: "It's gotten harder and harder to make the mortgage, or fill up your gas tank, or even keep the electricity on at the end of the month." (Senator Barack Obama, Remarks, Columbus, OH, 11/2/08)


    Under President Obama, Ohio's Gas Prices Have More Than Doubled From $1.90 Per Gallon In January 2009 To $3.82 Per Gallon Today. (AAA Website, www.aaa.com, Accessed 5/4/12)
  

Candidate Obama, In Ohio: "If You've Got Health Insurance, We're Going To Work With You To Lower Your Premiums ... We Will Do It By The End Of My First Term As President..." OBAMA: "I've put forward a plan that says everybody will have the same health care if they want it that I have as a member of Congress ... If you've got health insurance, we're going to work with you to lower your premiums by $2500 per family per year. And we will not wait 20 years from now to do it or 10 years from now to do it. We will do it by the end of my first term as president of the United States of America." (Senator Barack Obama, Remarks, Columbus, OH, 2/27/08)


    Ohioans With Individual Insurance Policies "Could See Their Premiums Jump 55 To 85 Percent In 2014" After Key Obamacare Provisions Begin. "Ohioans who buy individual insurance policies could see their premiums jump 55 to 85 percent in 2014 when key provisions of the new federal health-care law kick in, according to a new report. Rates also are expected to increase for those with employer-sponsored coverage but not nearly as much." (Catherine Candisky, "Insurance Premiums Expected To Increase, Report Says," The Columbus Dispatch, 9/20/11)
  



    Premiums Offered Through Small Businesses In Ohio Could Increase 5 To 15 Percent, While Large Employers Premiums May Increase 3 To 5 Percent. "The analysis by Milliman Inc. projected that premiums on policies offered through small businesses could increase 5 to 15 percent while the cost of insurance through large employers may jump 3 to 5 percent." (Catherine Candisky, "Insurance Premiums Expected To Increase, Report Says," The Columbus Dispatch, 9/20/11)
  

Candidate Obama, In Ohio: "Home Values Are Falling. ... It's Gotten Harder And Harder To Make The Mortgage..." OBAMA: "Businesses and families can't get credit. Home values are falling. Pensions are disappearing. It's gotten harder and harder to make the mortgage, or fill up your gas tank, or even keep the electricity on at the end of the month." (Senator Barack Obama, Remarks, Columbus, OH, 11/2/08)


    More Than 2.5 Million Homes Have Been Lost To Foreclosures Nationwide And Another 4 Million "Are In The Foreclosure Process Or Seriously Delinquent." "Meanwhile, 2.5 million homes have been lost to foreclosure since 2009, an additional 4 million are in the foreclosure process or seriously delinquent, and home prices are still falling in much of the U.S., shrinking household wealth for millions of Americans." (Julie Schmit, "What Went Wrong With Foreclosure Aid Programs?," USA Today, 12/12/11)
  



    In 2011, Ohio Had The Eleventh Highest Foreclosure Rate In The Nation. "But there's trouble looming on another front: the housing market's still struggling, especially in states key to his reelection prospects. Four of the biggest battlegrounds — Michigan, Florida, California and Nevada — are among the top 10 states with the highest foreclosure rates. Ohio, central to every presidential campaign, is ranked at number 11." (Joseph Williams, "Foreclosures May Dog Obama," Politico, 2/9/12)
  



    "Ohio Has The Nation's Ninth Highest Percentage Of Mortgages Under Water." "Nearly a quarter of Ohio homeowners were drowning in mortgage debt at the end of last year, based on figures from housing data tracker, CoreLogic. That was slightly higher than the U.S. rate of about 23 percent of all residential properties. Nationally, that means about 11 million homeowners are under water. Ohio has the nation's ninth highest percentage of mortgages under water." (Randy Tucker, "Mortgages Exceeding Home Values, Restraining Growth," The Dayton Daily News, 3/9/12)
  

  