
    Pool Reports by Jessica Floyd, TheGrio



Sent:
Reports:




May 24, 202113:51

VP Pool Report #1: Digital Divide Pooler Awaits Event
Hi all,
Your pooler has been tested, and is in position to be escorted to the South Court for the event with VP Harris on the digital divide and how the American Jobs Plan will provide access to affordable, high speed internet.
The list of attendees and more will follow shortly.
Please feel free to contact your pooler with any questions.



May 24, 202114:00

VP Pool Report #2: Digital Divide Event Attendees
Per WH officials, here are the event attendees:
Dr. William Gonzalez: Doctor in Orlando, Florida
Megan Kaiser: Soybean farmer and soil scientist in Bowling Green, Missouri
Chairperson Dr. Aaron Payment: Chairman of the Sault Ste. Marie Tribe of Chippewa Indians in Sault Ste. Marie, Michigan
Reverend Joan Ross: Operating Director of the North End Woodward Community Coalition in Detroit, Michigan
Amanda Schermerhorn: Federal legislative advocacy fellow with LeadMN, recent graduate of Minnesota State Community and Technical College, and mother of 4 in Detroit Lakes, Minnesota.
Kimberly Vasquez: Graduating Senior at Baltimore City College High School and lead organizer of the Students Organizing a Multicultural and Open Society (SOMOS), a student group that has advocated for improved broadband access in Baltimore.
Moderator -- Vince Evan: Deputy Director of the Office of Public Engagement & IGA for the Vice President
Livestream: Livestream through WhiteHouse.gov/Live



May 24, 202114:24

VP Pool Report #3: Digital Divide Event Begins
The digital divide event began at 2:19 pm ET. Vice President Harris' opening remarks focused on "the dawn of electricity," a time the Vice President says is when many Americans were "left out." She also made a point to draw a comparison to the work of President Franklin Roosevelt and the creation of the Rural Electrification Administration.
A livestream of the event is available online. Please check quotes with the official transcript.
Thank you!




  