
    The President appointed 37 members of the President's Commission on White House Fellowships today, including Olympic gold medalist Edwin Moses, chief U.S. district court judge Jose Cabranes, astronaut Sally Ride, actress Cecily Tyson, Maj. Gen. Wesley Clark, and Hawaii Governor John Waihee. The Commission will be chaired by Nancy Bekavac, the president of Scripps College.
The Commission on White House Fellowships provides an opportunity for a select group of men and women to spend a year early in their careers serving as paid assistants to Cabinet-level officials, members of the President's staff, or in the Office of the Vice President. Alumni of the program include the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs, General Colin Powell, and Housing and Urban Development Secretary Henry Cisneros.
"This Commission is comprised of some of the brightest, most talented, and most accomplished people in the country," said the President. "I am confident that they will apply the criteria of achievement, leadership, and promise to select an outstanding group of fellows. I am especially pleased to note the bipartisan nature of this group, which retains several members appointed by my predecessor."
This weekend the Commission will convene in Baltimore to select the 1993-94 class of White House fellows. Approximately 1,000 people applied for the class, and the Commission will choose about 15 fellows from among the 35 who have been chosen as national finalists. The Commission members are:
Nancy Y. Bekavac (Chair), Claremont, CA: president, Scripps College
Frederick S. Benson III, Washington, DC: vice president, Weyerhaeuser Co.
Marjorie Benton, Evanston, IL: president, Chaplin Hall Center for Children at the University of Chicago
Michael Beschloss, Washington, DC: author and historian
Dr. James E. Bostic, Jr., Atlanta, CA: group vice president, communication papers, Georgia Pacific Corp.
Hon. Jose E. Cabranes, New Haven, CT: chief U.S. district judge, District of Connecticut
Julius L. Chambers, Durham, NC: chancellor, North Carolina Central University; former director-counsel, NAACP Legal Defense and Education Fund
Maj. Gen. Wesley Kanne Clark, Fort Hood, TX: commanding general, 1st Cavalry Division
Clive S. Cummis, West Orange, N J: chairman, Sills Cummis Zuckerman Radin Tischman Epstein & Gross
Ronald R. Davenport, Pittsburgh, PA: chairman, Sheridan Broadcasting Corp.
Adela de la Torre, Long Beach, CA: economist and chair of the department of Chicano and Latino Studies, California State University, Long Beach
Dr. Anne Cohn Donnelly, Chicago, IL: executive director, National Committee for the Prevention of Child Abuse
Jeri A. Eckhart, McLean, VA: president, Eckhart & Co.; president of White House Fellows Foundation and Alumni Association
Carolyn Forrest, Detroit, MI: international vice president, United Auto Workers
Pauline Gore, Carthage, TN: member and managing partner, Peabody Rivlin & Gore; mother of Vice President Gore
Antonia Hernandez, Los Angeles, CA: president and general counsel, Mexican-American Legal Defense and Education Fund
Robert L. Kagen, M.D., Fort Lauderdale, FL: medical director, MRI Scan Center
Hon. James B. King, Ludlow, MA: Director, U.S. Office of Personnel Management
Victor A. Kovner, New York, NY: partner, Lankenau Kovner & Kurtz; former corporation counsel of the city of New York
Robert M. McGee, Bethesda, MD: president, Occidental International Corp.
Dana Mead, Houston, TX: president and chief operating officer, Tenneco, Inc.
Arthur Mitchell, New York, NY: artistic director, Dance Theatre of Harlem
Edwin C. Moses, Laguna Hills, CA: Olympic gold medalist
Faylene Curtis Owen, East Lansing, MI: president and CEO, Mica Consulting Corp.
Jan O. Piercy, Chicago, IL: Deputy Director of Presidential Personnel
Hon. Roger B. Porter, McLean, VA: professor of government and business, Harvard University; Domestic Policy Aide to Presidents Ford, Reagan, and Bush
Professor George E. Reedy, Milwaukee, WI: College of Communications, Marquette University; Press Secretary to President Johnson
Sally K. Ride, Ph.D., La Jolla, CA: professor of physics, University of California at San Diego; former NASA astronaut
Charles T. Royer, Cambridge, MA: director, Institute of Politics, JFK School of Government; former Mayor of Seattle
John Saxon, Birmingham, AL: partner, Cooper, Mitch, Crawford, Kuykendall & Whatley; former counsel to U.S. Senate Select Committee on Ethics, and special counsel to the U.S. Senate Armed Services Committee
Max Starkloft, St. Louis, MO: president, Paraquad, Inc.
Mary Steenburgen, Ojai, CA: actress
Elizabeth Guest Stevens, Washington, DC: editor-at-large, Random House Publishing
Hon. Stansfield Turner, McLean, VA: admiral, U.S. Navy (Ret.); former Director of Central Intelligence
Cicely Tyson, New York, NY: actress
Hon. John David Waihee, Honolulu, HI: Governor of Hawaii
Hon. Robert Yazzie, Window Rock, AZ: chief justice, Navajo Nation
  