
    Today, President Donald J. Trump announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key positions in his Administration:
Justin E. Herdman, of Ohio, to serve as United States Attorney for the District of Columbia.
Justin E. Herdman currently serves as the United States Attorney for the Northern District of Ohio, having been nominated by President Donald J. Trump and confirmed by the Senate in 2017 by voice vote. Since 2017, Mr. Herdman has been a member of the Attorney General's Advisory Committee of United States Attorneys, of which he is currently the Vice-Chair. In this role, Mr. Herdman serves as 1 of 15 United States Attorneys charged with developing and offering recommendations to improve management, operations, and functions of United States Attorneys' offices nationwide, as well as the Department of Justice, more broadly.
Prior to his service as United States Attorney, Mr. Herdman was a partner at Jones Day, where he represented businesses and individuals in civil litigation and under criminal investigation. Earlier in his career, Mr. Herdman served as an Assistant United States Attorney in the Northern District of Ohio, where he was responsible for investigating and prosecuting national security crimes. Mr. Herdman has also served as an Assistant District Attorney in New York City from 2001 to 2005 and is a Judge Advocate in the United States Air Force Reserve. Mr. Herdman received his B.A. from Ohio University in 1996, an M.Phil. from the University of Glasgow in 1998, and his J.D. from Harvard Law School in 2001.
Chris Koos, of Illinois, to be a Director of the Amtrak Board of Directors.
Chris Koos is currently the Mayor of Normal, Illinois, a position he has held since 2003. Additionally, Mr. Koos currently serves on the Advisory Board of Transportation for America, as a member of the Uptown Normal Business Association, and, since 1979, has served as the owner and operator of the retail specialty stores Vitesse Cycle Shop and Often Running.
During his tenure as Mayor of Normal, development in the Central Business District has included a Multimodal Transportation Center/City Hall, the Marriott Hotel and Conference Center, the Hyatt Place Hotel, the Children's Discovery Museum, and other major multi-use construction.
Mr. Koos is a Bloomington-Normal, Illinois, native and attended Illinois State University.
Sarah E. Feinberg, of West Virginia, to be a Director of the Amtrak Board of Directors.
Sarah E. Feinberg currently serves as the Interim President of New York City Transit. Ms. Feinberg previously served as Administrator of the Federal Railroad Administration and Chief of Staff to the former Secretary of Transportation.
Earlier in her career, Ms. Feinberg served as Director of Policy Communications at Facebook and Director of Global Communications and Business Strategy at Bloomberg L.P. Ms. Feinberg is the founder of Feinberg Strategies, LLC, and received her B.A. from Washington and Lee University.
  