
    NOMINATIONS SENT TO THE SENATE:
Roy Kalman Altman, of Florida, to be United States District Judge for the Southern District of Florida, vice Joan A. Lenard, retired.
Thomas P. Barber, of Florida, to be United States District Judge for the Middle District of Florida, vice James D. Whittemore, retired.
Kim Gaffney, of Wisconsin, to be United States Marshal for the Western District of Wisconsin for the term of four years, vice Dallas Stephen Neville, term expired.
Richard A. Hertling, of Maryland, to be a Judge of the United States Court of Federal Claims for a term of fifteen years, vice George W. Miller, deceased.
Denny Wade King, of Tennessee, to be United States Marshal for the Middle District of Tennessee for the term of four years, vice Louise W. Kelton, term expired.
Susan Llewellyn Pamerleau, of Texas, to be United States Marshal for the Western District of Texas for the term of four years, vice Robert R. Almonte, term expired.
A. Marvin Quattlebaum, Jr., of South Carolina, to be United States Circuit Judge for the Fourth Circuit, vice William B. Traxler, Jr., retiring.
Barrett W. Rich, of Tennessee, to be United States Marshal for the Western District of Tennessee for the term of four years, vice Jeffrey Thomas Holt, term expired.
Julius Ness Richardson, of South Carolina, to be United States Circuit Judge for the Fourth Circuit, vice Dennis W. Shedd, retired.
Rodolfo Armando Ruiz II, of Florida, to be United States District Judge for the Southern District of Florida, vice William J. Zloch, retired.
Rodney Smith, of Florida, to be United States District Judge for the Southern District of Florida, vice Robin S. Rosenbaum, elevated.
Richard J. Sullivan, of New York, to be United States Circuit Judge for the Second Circuit, vice Richard C. Wesley, retired.
Richard E. Taylor, Jr., of Texas, to be United States Marshal for the Northern District of Texas for the term of four years, vice Randy Paul Ely, retired.
T. Kent Wetherell, II, of Florida, to be United States District Judge for the Northern District of Florida, vice John Richard Smoak, retired.
Nick Willard, of New Hampshire, to be United States Marshal for the District of New Hampshire for the term of four years, vice David Lyle Cargill, Jr., term expired.
  