
    Pool Reports by Francesca Chambers, McClatchy



Sent:
Reports:




 May 11, 2020 13:21

 Pool Report #1: lunch lid 
A lunch lid is in place until 2:30 pm. No other scheduling updates. Peter Navarro had a TV hit this morning, pooler is told, but he did not stop to talk to reporters.
The only event on POTUS public schedule that is open press is the news conference at 4pm.


 May 11, 2020 16:14

Pool Report #2: Rose Garden 
Press and White House guests are assembled in the Rose Garden awaiting the president.
In the meantime, Judd Deere sends along the following statement on the event:
Today, President Donald J. Trump will deliver remarks on the Trump Administration's COVID-19 testing accomplishments.
 The following individuals are expected to attend:
 The White HousePresident Donald J. Trump Mark Meadows, Assistant to the President & Chief of StaffDan Scavino, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief for CommunicationsJared Kushner, Assistant to the President & Senior Counselor
Trump Administration Secretary Alex Azar, Department of Health and Human Services Admiral Brett Giroir, Assistant Secretary for Health, Department of Health and Human Services Adam Boehler, CEO, U.S. International Development Finance Corporation Brad Smith, Deputy Administrator and Director, Center for Medicare and Medicaid Innovation 


 May 11, 2020 16:20

Pool Report #3: POTUS arrival & color
The president arrived in the Rose Garden at 4:15 pm. Every guest of the president and White House staffer your pooler can see is wearing a mask. So is every reporter.
President Trump is the only person who is not wearing one, as far as pooler can see. The president is at least six feet from the closest person to him, Jared Kushner, if not further, and he is relatively far away from members of the press, who are seated four rows and a rope line behind White House guests.


 May 11, 2020 16:22

Pool Report #3: POTUS arrival & color 
Addendum: one agent on pooler's far left, behind a TV screen that says "AMERICA LEADS THE WORLD IN TESTING," is not wearing a mask.


 May 11, 2020 17:36

Pool report #4: travel/photo lid 
At 5:34 pm, the White House called a travel photo lid.
Also, the press conference with the president ended at roughly 5:20 pm.
Apologies for the delay in sending.


 May 11, 2020 18:31

Pool Report #5: Iraqi PM call 
Judd Deere passes along the following statement:
"Today, President Donald J. Trump spoke with Iraqi Prime Minister Mustafa al-Kadhimi to congratulate him on his confirmation by the Iraqi Council of Representatives. President Trump expressed the support of the United States for Iraq during the ongoing global coronavirus pandemic and emphasized the shared interest with Iraq in achieving the enduring defeat of ISIS. President Trump also encouraged the Prime Minister to address the Iraqi people's demands for reform and legitimate early national elections."



  