
    Major Haul a Significant Increase Over Fundraising from Same Period in 2016
Today, Biden for President (BFP) and the Democratic National Committee (DNC) announced that they raised a combined $60.5 million in April. The average online donation to the campaign was $32.63, showing continued grassroots strength even in this time of crisis.
"I am especially humbled because I know what a sacrifice it is to give in economic times as difficult as the one we're in," Vice President Biden wrote to supporters. "When staring down the face of economic uncertainty, you chose to put your money behind me. For that, I will always be eternally thankful."
Below is the full message Vice President Biden sent to supporters:
Folks,
April was one of the toughest months in the history of our country. We now have over a million confirmed cases of Covid-19. More than 80,000 deaths. 33 million Americans have lost their jobs to the pandemic. As a nation, we've experienced enormous pain. We've also witnessed incredible acts of heroism -- from health care workers, first responders, grocery store workers, truckers, teachers and millions more.
But look, the pain I've seen and the heroism I've witnessed have only inspired me to work harder than I ever have before. If I've said it once, I've said it a million times that we are in the battle for the soul of this nation. And this crisis has shown us what is at stake if we lose.
The trust you all have put in me as your presumptive nominee is humbling. So I'm proud to announce that for the month of April, we raised $60.5 million between my campaign and the Democratic National Committee. And the average online donation to my campaign was only $32.63.
I am especially humbled because I know what a sacrifice it is to give in economic times as difficult as the one we're in. When staring down the face of economic uncertainty, you chose to put your money behind me. For that, I will always be eternally thankful.
When we won in South Carolina, I said: "for all those who've been knocked down, counted out, left behind, this is your campaign." That is more true than ever today.
This nation has been knocked down. But if there's one thing I know, it's this: There is no quit in America. Never has been. Never will be. We're getting back up.
So if you're scared, angry, ready to fight back, ready to rebuild this nation, ready to rebuild it better than ever before -- this is the place you can turn to and get involved to make the change we all know we have to make -- whether that's talking to voters, attending our virtual events, or with your donations. This campaign is for you.
For my part, I promise I will do everything I can to make Donald Trump a one-term president. We can overcome four years of Trump. But if he's given eight years? I fear we won't recognize who we are as a nation after that.
That's why I get up every day -- and my campaign gets up every day -- laser-focused on building the strongest campaign possible. Because I'll be damned if I'll let Trump win again.
What we raise in May will be really important in determining what we can accomplish in the fall. So listen, here's where I have to ask you a favor: Could you chip in to my campaign? I might even give you a call to say thank you.
I want you to know I could not do this without you. I'll always be thankful for your help.
- Joe
  