
    President Donald J. Trump today announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key positions in his Administration:
J. Paul Compton Jr of Alabama to be General Counsel at the Department of Housing and Urban Development. Mr. Compton is a partner in the law firm Bradley Arant Boult Cummings LLP (formerly Bradley, Arant, Rose & White) in its Birmingham, Alabama office and serves as Chairman of its Finance Committee. He joined the firm in 1989 upon his graduation from the University of Virginia School of Law. Since that time he has been involved in advising clients regarding consumer lending and regarding loans and investments by banks and other financial institutions in affordable housing and community development projects. He is also outside General Counsel to the Alabama Affordable Housing Association and a member, and former state chairman, of the American Bar Association Forum on Affordable Housing and Community Development. He is a 1985 graduate, summa cum laude, of the University of Alabama, where he was named the College of Commerce's Outstanding Student in 1985. He also attended the London School of Economics and Political Science as an undergraduate. He is a 1983 Truman Scholar and presently serves on the Board of Directors of the Truman Scholars Association. Mr. Compton grew up in Georgiana, Alabama and lives in Mountain Brook, Alabama with his wife, Dana. They have three adult children, Catherine, Jerome and Anne.
Robert R. Hood of Georgia to be an Assistant Secretary of Defense, Legislative Affairs. Mr. Hood most recently served as the Vice President for Government Affairs for CH2M, where he was responsible for advising the company on its Federal Government work and its profile in national security programs globally. Mr. Hood previously served in the White House as a Special Assistant to the President in the Office of Legislative Affairs, overseeing coordination with the Senate, including the Armed Services, Homeland Security, Foreign Relations, and Intelligence Committees. In addition, Hood served in the Office of the Secretary of Defense as the Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary for Legislative Affairs and as the Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Budget and Appropriations Affairs. He received the Secretary of Defense's Medal for Exceptional Public Service . He also served as the Director of Congressional Affairs at the National Nuclear Security Administration (NNSA) within the Department of Energy, where he received the NNSA Gold Medal for Distinguished Service. Prior to his work in the Executive Branch, Mr. Hood worked on Capitol Hill, including for the Speaker of the U.S. House of Representatives. Hood is from Marietta, Georgia and a graduate of the University of West Georgia.
David S. Jonas of Pennsylvania to be General Counsel at the Department of Energy. David S. Jonas is a partner at Fluet, Huber & Hoang. He served as General Counsel of both the National Nuclear Security Administration and the Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board. Prior to that, he served over 20 years in the U.S. Marine Corps. He is an adjunct professor at Georgetown and George Washington University Law Schools. He serves on the Board of Directors of the Naval War College Foundation, the Young Marines, and the Marine Executive Association. He is also on the American Bar Association Advisory Committee on Law and National Security and the Advisory Committee of the University of Pennsylvania Law School's Center for Ethics and the Rule of Law. Mr. Jonas holds a B.A. from Denison University, a J.D. from Wake Forest University, an LL.M. from the U.S. Army Judge Advocate General's School, an LL.M. from Georgetown University and an M.A. from the U.S. Naval War College.
George Nesterczuk of Virginia to be Director of the Office of Personnel Management. Mr. Nesterczuk leads Nesterczuk and Associates in providing management consulting services to public sector institutions and private enterprises. He has over thirty years of experience as a consultant on organizational management and policy development. From 2004 to 2006, Mr. Nesterczuk was Senior Advisor to the Director of the U.S. Office of Personnel Management for the Department of Defense. In that capacity, he led OPM efforts in the establishment of the National Security Personnel System at the Department of Defense. Previously, he was Staff Director of the Subcommittee on Civil Service of the Committee on Government Reform in the U.S. House of Representatives. Mr. Nesterczuk also served as a senior official in the Reagan Administration, holding successive positions in the U.S. Office of Personnel Management, the Department of Defense, and the Department of Transportation.
  