
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Kevin Madden (857) 288-6390
Boston, MA – Today, Governor Mitt Romney announced the Romney for President Alabama Statewide Finance Committee. These Alabama leaders will help Governor Romney raise the resources necessary to be competitive in the state and across the nation.
"The Alabama Statewide Finance Committee will help raise the resources and support needed to run an effective campaign in the state," said Governor Romney. "I am proud to have the support of these respected leaders. Together, they will help our campaign as we communicate our vision of bringing real conservative change to Washington."
Background On The Romney For President Alabama Statewide Finance Committee:
The Honorable Bill Cabaniss (Birmingham) – Cabaniss is the former U.S. Ambassador to the Czech Republic. Mr. Cabaniss has been a leader in the Birmingham business community, having served on the boards of directors of several publicly held companies including AmSouth Bank, Birmingham Steel Corporation, the Southern Company and Protective Life Corporation. He has also been successful in his business endeavors and has held membership in the Birmingham Chamber of Commerce and Business Council of Alabama. Mr. Cabaniss also served in both the Alabama House of Representatives and Alabama State Senate.
Marty Connors (Alabaster) – Connors was elected twice as chairman of the Alabama Republican Party. In 2004, he was the recipient of the Conservative Ronald Regan Award, an annual CPAC honor. Connors has 29 years of political experience in Alabama. Currently, he is the principal of MJ Connors consulting which focuses on marketing and public relations.
Bill Featheringill (Birmingham) – Featheringill is a private investor and venture capitalist, specializing in health management software, biotechnology, and telecommunications. He is also a fixture in Republican politics across the state of Alabama and a Republican National Committee Regent donor.
John Hannah (Decatur) – Hannah is the Managing Partner of John Hannah & Associates LLC. A two-time All American, he played for the New England Patriots from 1973-1985, and was inducted into the Professional Football Hall of Fame.
Dr. Griff Harsh III (Birmingham) – An Alabama native, Dr. Harsh practiced neurology in Birmingham for 25 years. Following his time in private practice, Dr. Harsh served at the University of Alabama as Professor of Surgery, Director of the Neurosurgical Division and then became Chairman of the American Board of Neurosurgery. He was also in the United States Army from 1943 to 1951. During his service, Dr. Harsh was assigned to Keesler Field, Walter Reed Army Hospital, Tokyo Army Hospital and was Commanding Officer, 1st Provisional Neurosurgical Detachment. He received the Bronze Star Medal in 1951.
Stan McDonald (Madison) – McDonald is the President of Reli Inc., the largest title company in Alabama. He is also the President of McDonald & Associates law firm located in Huntsville, Alabama. He also serves on the Calhoun Community College Foundation and is the founder of Freedom Academy, a private high school for at risk high school boys. McDonald is an elder at Redeemer Presbyterian Church in Madison, Alabama.
Hope Mehlman (Birmingham) – Ms. Mehlman is the Associate General Counsel for Regions Financial Services and has numerous community affiliations. She serves on the Board of Directors for Girls, Inc. She also served on the Board of Directors for the Birmingham Jewish Federation and the Board of Directors for Oasis Women's Counseling Center, and was past chairman of the Oasis Annual Spring Benefit. She is a member of the Birmingham Chamber of Commerce, the Jewish Republican Coalition, and Hadassah. She also served as State Chair of the Cornell Alumni Admissions Ambassador Network and has served on the Visiting Allocation Team of the United Way of Central Alabama.
Senator Harri Anne Smith (Slocomb) – Senator Smith is serving her third term as a State Senator. She began her public service career as a member of the Slocomb City Council, an office she held from 1989 until her election as Mayor of Slocomb in 1996. Senator Smith is also very active as a volunteer in her local community. She served as the 2005 Campaign Chair for the Wiregrass Area United Way. She also serves as a member of the Board of the Retired and Senior Volunteer Program Advisory Council, the Southeast Alabama Regional Planning and Development Revolving Loan Fund and the Alabama Advisory Council on Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention.
Hatton C.V. Smith (Birmingham) – Smith is active in the coffee industry and is the President and CEO of Royal Cup Coffee. He is also a leader in various civic and community endeavors, including his dedicated service to Washington and Lee University.
Lee J. Styslinger, III (Birmingham) – Styslinger is the President & Chief Executive Officer of Altec, Inc, a leading equipment and service provider for the electric utility, telecommunications, and contractor markets. He was appointed by President George W. Bush to serve on the President's Export Council. Styslinger is a member of the Business Roundtable and serves on the National Association of Manufacturers Executive Committee.
  