
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate three individuals, appoint one individual and designate one individual to serve in his Administration.
The President intends to nominate Liliana Ayalde, of Maryland, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Paraguay. Ms. Ayalde, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, currently serves as Mission Director for Colombia at the United States Agency for International Development. Prior to this, she served as Mission Director for Boliva at the United States Agency for International Development. Earlier in her career, she served as Deputy Director in Nicaragua for the United States Agency for International Development. Ms. Ayalde received her bachelor's degree from American University and her master's degree from Tulane University.
The President intends to nominate Tatiana C. Gfoeller-Volkoff, of the District of Columbia, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Kyrgyz Republic. Ms. Gfoeller-Volkoff is a member of the Senior Foreign Service and served as Consul General of the United States in Jeddah. Prior to this, she served as the Director of the Office of Multilateral Affairs in the Bureau of Democracy, Human Rights, and Labor at the Department of State. Earlier in her career she served as the Deputy Principal Officer in St. Petersburg, Russia. Ms. Gfoeller-Volkoff received her bachelor's degree from Georgetown University.
The President intends to nominate Sean Joseph Stackley, of Virginia, to be Assistant Secretary of the Navy for Research, Development and Acquisition. Mr. Stackley currently serves as a Professional Staff Member on the Senate Armed Services Committee. Prior to this, he served as Program Manager of the LPD 17 Class Program. Earlier in his career, he served as the Production Manager for the AEGIS Destroyer Program. Mr. Stackley received his bachelor's degree from the United States Naval Academy and his master's degree from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
The President intends to appoint Martin J. Dannenfelser, Jr., of Virginia, to be Staff Director of the United States Commission on Civil Rights. Mr. Dannenfelser currently serves as Senior Advisor to the Assistant Secretary at the Administration for Children and Families at the Department of Health and Human Services. Prior to this, he served as Deputy Assistant Secretary for Policy and External Affairs at the Administration for Children and Families at the Department of Health and Human Services. Earlier in his career, he served as a Vice President at the Family Research Council. Mr. Dannenfelser received his bachelor's degree from The College of New Jersey.
The President intends to designate Gregory G. Katsas, of Massachusetts, to be Acting Assistant Attorney General (Civil Division) at the Department of Justice.
  