
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate five individuals to serve in his Administration:
The President intends to nominate Elizabeth A. Duke, of Virginia, to be a Member of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (3rd District) for the remainder of a fourteen-year term expiring 01/31/12. Ms. Duke currently serves as Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of TowneBank. Prior to this, she served as Executive Vice President of the Merger Project Office at Wachovia Bank. Previously, she served as Executive Vice President of Community Bank Development of SouthTrust Bank. Earlier in her career, Ms. Duke served as President & Chief Executive Officer of Bank of Tidewater. Ms. Duke received her bachelor's degree from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill and her MBA from Old Dominion University. She is also a graduate and former instructor of the Stonier Graduate School of Banking.
The President intends to nominate Larry Allan Klane, of the District of Columbia, to be a Member of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (12th District) for the remainder of a fourteen-year term expiring 01/31/10. Mr. Klane currently serves as President of Global Financial Services of Capital One Financial Corporation. Prior to this, he served as Managing Director of Corporate Trust and Agency Services at Deutsche Bank / Bankers Trust. Earlier in his career, he served in the Corporate Strategic Planning Department at the Walt Disney Company. Mr. Klane received his bachelor's degree from Harvard College and his MBA from Stanford University.
The President intends to nominate Randall S. Kroszner, of New Jersey, to be a Member of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (7th District) for a fourteen-year term expiring 01/31/22. Dr. Kroszner currently serves as a Member of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. Prior to this, he served as a Professor of Economics at the University of Chicago Graduate School of Business. Earlier in his career, he served as a Member of the President's Council of Economic Advisors. Dr. Kroszner received his bachelor's degree from Brown University. He received his master's degree and PhD from Harvard University.
The President intends to nominate Ronald Spoehel, of Virginia, to be Chief Financial Officer of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration. Mr. Spoehel recently served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of ICX Technologies. Prior to this, he served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and was on the Board of Directors of ManTech International Corporation. Earlier in his career, he served as Vice President of Corporate Development of Harris Corporation. Mr. Spoehel received his bachelor's degree, master's degree and MBA from the University of Pennsylvania.
The President intends to nominate Miguel Campaneria, of Puerto Rico, to be a Member of the National Council on the Arts for the remainder of a six-year term expiring 09/03/12.
  