
    By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including the North American Free Trade Agreement Implementation Act, Public Law 103–182; 107 Stat. 2057 ("NAFTA Implementation Act"), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code, it is hereby ordered as follows:
Section 1. The Agreement Between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of the United Mexican States Concerning the Establishment of a Border Environment Cooperation Commission and a North American Development Bank ("Agreement") shall be implemented consistent with United States policy for the protection of human, animal or plant life or health, and the environment. The Agreement shall also be implemented to advance sustainable development, pollution prevention, environmental justice, ecosystem protection, and biodiversity preservation and in a manner that promotes transparency and public participation in accordance with the North American Free Trade Agreement and the Agreement.
Sec. 2. (a) The Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency and the United States Commissioner, International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico ("Commissioner"), shall represent the United States as Members of the Board of Directors of the Border Environment Cooperation Commission in accordance with the Agreement.
(b) The policies and positions of the United States in the Border Environment Cooperation Commission shall be coordinated through applicable interagency procedures, which shall include participation by the Department of State, the Department of the Treasury, the Department of Housing and Urban Development, the Department of the Interior, the Agency for International Development, the Environmental Protection Agency, and, as appropriate, other Federal agencies.
(c) The Commissioner shall promote cooperation, as appropriate, between the International Boundary and Water Commission and the Border Environment Cooperation Commission in planning, developing, carrying out border sanitation, and other environmental activities.
Sec. 3. (a) The United States Government representatives to the Board of the North American Development Bank shall be the Secretary of the Treasury, the Secretary of State, and the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency.
Sec. 8. Any advice or conclusions of reviews provided to the President by the Advisory Committee pursuant to section 543(b)(3) of the NAFTA Implementation Act shall be provided through the Finance Committee.
Sec. 9. Any summaries of public comments or conclusions of investigations and audits provided to the President by the ombudsman pursuant to section 543(c)(1) of the NAFTA Implementation Act shall be provided through the Finance Committee.
Sec. 10. The authority of the President under section 6 of Public Law 102–532; 7 U.S.C. 5404, to establish an advisory board to be known as the Good Neighbor Environmental Board is delegated to the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency.
Sec. 11. This order is intended only to improve the internal management of the executive branch and is not intended to, and does not, create any right to administrative or judicial review, or any other right or benefit or trust responsibility, substantive or procedural, enforceable by a party against the United States, its agencies or instrumentalities, its officers or employees, or any other person.
William J. Clinton
The White House,
May 13, 1994.
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 2:53 p.m., May 16, 1994]
  