
    Pool Reports by David Sanger, The New York Times 



Sent:
Reports:




May 16, 202211:42

Pool report 1 - East Room gathering
Good morning. Your pool has gathered in the East Room for a Public Safety Officer medals of valor ceremony. Law enforcement and fire department officials are here, in uniform. POTUS is expected at 11:45.
Meanwhile, below from White House, delivered on background.
REPORTABLE from a White House official:
Since the President's calls on Thursday to manufacturers and retailers, the White House has been in close communication to follow up on those conversations. The White House is having ongoing conversations with the four major infant formula manufacturers -- Reckitt, Abbott, Nestle/Gerber, and Perrigo -- to work with them to identify transportation, logistical, and supplier hurdles to increasing production of formula at their U.S. and FDA approved facilities, to expand the amount and speed of FDA approved formula being shipped into the country, and ensure that formula is quickly moving to retailers from factories. We are also in ongoing communication with Target, Amazon, Walmart and other leading retailers for baby formula to identify parts of the country that may be at risk of critically low supply of infant formula, and have offered to work with manufacturers and retailers to bring more formula to those parts of the country, including with US government transportation and logistics support. We are also contacting suppliers to infant formula manufacturers to inform them that their materials are critical for boosting U.S. infant formula production and encouraging them to prioritize their production and delivery.



May 16, 202212:04

Pool Report #2, ceremony participants
The ceremony was opened by Attorney General Merrick Garland. The awards cover 2020 and 2021, because Covid prevented past ceremonies. There are 15 honorees. The President also noted the sacrifice of the former police officer. Aaron Salter Jr., killed in the attack in Buffalo on Saturday.
This from White House: 
Medal of Valor Ceremony Background:
The President will present Medals of Valor to fifteen public safety officers, including two officers who died in the line of duty. Nine police officers and six firefighters are receiving the award for acts of bravery in the line of duty.
In attendance for the President's Remarks for the Medals of Valor Ceremony:
Senator Chris Murphy (CT)Rep. Adriano Espaillat (NY-13)Rep. James Himes (CT-04)Anne Milgram (Drug Enforcement Administration Administrator)Lisa Monaco, Deputy Attorney GeneralPatrick Yoes (National President, Fraternal Order of Police)Vernon Stanforth (President, National Sheriffs' Association)James Slevin (1st District Vice President, IAFF Executive Board Member)Approximately 150 attendees consisting of police, fire, and emergency services leaders



May 16, 202212:41

12:45 Briefing moving inside
All -- A briefing on the six-month anniversary of the infrastructure initiative is being moved from the stakeout to inside the press room because of the rain. Here's the lineup, per White House. Open press and on record.
Today, at 12:45pm in the Brady Press Briefing Room, senior officials and Cabinet Members from President Biden's Infrastructure Implementation Task Force will hold a press availability on the six month anniversary of the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law to discuss how the Biden-Harris Administration is delivering results and building a better America.
Participants include:

Infrastructure Coordinator Mitch Landrieu
OMB Director Shalanda Young
NEC Director Brian Deese
Transportation Secretary Pete Buttigieg
Interior Secretary Deb Haaland
Energy Secretary Jennifer Granholm
EPA Administrator Michael Regan
Labor Secretary Marty Walsh
Homeland Security Secretary Alejandro Mayorkas




May 16, 202216:06

Pool Report 3 -- Oval office
Your pool was escorted into the Oval around 3:30 pm for a spray with the prime minister of Greece, Kyriakos Mitsotakis. As we faced the fireplace, POTUS was in his usual chair on the right, and PM Mitsotakis was in the left-side chair.
POTUS, reading from notes on his lap, talked about celebrating 201 years of Greek independence and discussed the "shared democratic values" between the two countries.
"Sadly, Russia's attack on Ukraine was an attack on democracy by autocrats" was a threat to a "rules-tested order." [As usual, check against transcript; it was a noisy environment.] He thanks the PM for "moral leadership," and said he would discuss defense partnerships, energy security, climate change and other topics.
PM Mitsotakis said "we are now facing the challenge of a Russian invasion" and talked about the need for unity.
He said relations between Greece and the US were at "an all-time high" and said he wants to discuss energy security. (He made no reference to the 182-km pipeline from Greece to Bulgaria that should help relieve dependence on Russian gas).
Your poolers attempted to ask questions, but were shouted down, and escorted out, by the wranglers. POTUS looked like he might want to entertain a question, but then turned to the PM for chit-chat until our unruly crew was out the Rose Garden doors.
From the White House: Attendees.
U.S. ManifestThe PresidentT.H. Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security AffairsT.H. Steve Ricchetti, Assistant to the President and Counselor to the PresidentT.H. Wendy Sherman, Deputy Secretary of StateT.H. George Tsunis, Ambassador of the United States to GreeceT.H. Eric Green, Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for Russia and Central Asia, National Security CouncilMr. Amos Hochstein, Senior Advisor for Energy SecurityMr. Kevin Boyd, Director for Europe and Eurasia, National Security Council
Greece ManifestH.E. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, Prime Minister of the Hellenic RepublicH.E. Nikolaos Georgios Dendias, Minister for Foreign AffairsH.E. Nikolaos Panagiotopoulos, Minister of National DefenseH.E. Niki Kerameus, Minister of Education and Religious AffairsH.E. Konstantinos Fragkogiannis, Deputy Minister for Economic Diplomacy of the Ministry of Foreign AffairsH.E. Loannis Oikonomou, Deputy Minister to the Prime Minister and Government SpokespersonH.E. Alexandra Papadopoulou, Ambassador of the Hellenic Republic to the United StatesH.E. Anna Maria Eleni Boura, Director of the Diplomatic Cabinet of the Prime Minister



May 16, 202217:46

Pool Report 4 Reception for Greece PM
The East Room was full - jammed to capacity, in fact, with nary a mask - for a reception celebrating 201 years of Greek independence. Nancy Pelosi and other member of Congress came in, as did Greek leadership.
Jill Biden opened the proceedings, saying "the legacy of Greece touches every corner of our culture." She talked about visiting Greece many times. "You are part of our beautiful and rich history."
POTUS then talked about the closeness of the relationship, joked about crossing himself incorrectly, then spoke about how "democracy is more under assault today, including in the United States, than anytime in the recent past." He went on to denounce Russia and talked of how "children remain buried in mass graves."
The PM then spoke about how "Russia is a reminder that what we took for granted in Europe, that maps cannot be redrawn by force, is unfortunately no longer the case." He talked about Greece as a producer off electricity. He talked about reducing dependence on "Russian hydrocarbons." And he said he wants to buy F-35's.



May 16, 202218:07

We have a lid for the night
...good night from the White House press room.




 
Pool Reports below by Kethevane Gorjestani, France 24 



Sent:
Reports:




May 16, 202215:30

Foreign pool report #1 - Background on Greek PM Kyriakos Mitsotakis visit
Hello all,
I'm your foreign pooler for the bilateral meeting between President Joe Biden and the Prime Minister of Greece, Kyriakos Mitsotakis.
The meeting is scheduled for 3:30pm.
Per the Greek embassy this is a sort of "delayed celebration" of Greece's bicentennial (2021).
Meeting:
The 2 leaders spoke on the phone in march of 2021, when POTUS congratulated the PM for the country's bicentennial.
They met before, when Joe Biden was VP.
They've also crossed paths at various international summits since Biden took office (NATO, EU) but this will be their first formal in-person bilateral.
The Greek PM visited the White House back in January of 2020 when he met then-President Donald Trump.
Priorities for bilat:
Per Greek embassy
-Ukraine (Embassy notes that Greece stood by Ukraine from the very beginning with humanitarian, economic and military assistance, noting there are more than 100,000 ethnic greeks in the Marioupol region.)
-greek-americas bilateral relations and how to increase cooperation
-Energy security & cooperation (including how to diversify Europe's energy sources)
-issues in the eastern mediterranean (PM will especially bring up turkish provocations)
In late april, Greece accused Turkey of undermining NATO unity by violating its airspace with fighter jets.
Mitsotakis spoke to NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg on the issue.
"I made it clear to the secretary-general that this type of behaviour by a NATO ally … is unacceptable," Mitsotakis said.
"It undermines European security as well as the unity … of NATO at a time when amongst NATO members it is indispensable for all of us to remain united as we face the continued aggression of Russia in Ukraine."
From WH
"The Prime Minister's visit provides an opportunity to affirm our strong bilateral partnership and to celebrate 201 years of Greek independence. The leaders will discuss ongoing efforts with Allies and partners to support the people of Ukraine and impose economic costs on Russia for its unprovoked aggression. They will discuss our close cooperation on global challenges, including climate change and energy security. The leaders will take stock of our joint efforts to promote global security through NATO, as well as our shared goals for peace and prosperity in the region. They will also celebrate the history, democratic values, and trade and investment links that have united our peoples and countries for generations."
Schedule:
Following the bilateral meeting, there will be a reception at the White House.
On May 17, the PM will address a joint meeting of Congress (11am). He will also have a bilateral meeting with the speaker as well as members of Congress (including members of the House & Senate foreign relations committees.)
In the evening, he will attend a reception with the greek-american community, where he will decorate 12 greek-americans for their contribution to US-Greece ties.
Bio:
Kyriakos Mitsotakis was sworn in as Prime Minister on July 8th, 2019.
He became President of New Democracy (Nea Demokratia, the main centre-right party) in January 2016 and led the party to a landslide victory in the 2019 elections.
Prior to becoming PM, he was leader of the opposition from 2016 to 2019 Mitsotakis, Minister of Administrative Reform and e-Goverment (June '13-January '15), shadow minister for the environment and climate change for ND 2009-2012. He was first elected to Parliament in 2004.
Before entering politics, he worked for ten years in the private sector as a financial analyst with Chase Investment Bank, a consultant with McKinsey, and finally as CEO of NBG Venture Capital at the National Bank of Greece.
Mitsotakis studied in the US, getting his bachelor's degree in Social Studies from Harvard University, an MA in International Relations from Stanford University and an MBA from Harvard Business School.
He is the son of the former PM and president of ND Konstantinos Mitsotakis.
Delegation to the bilateral meeting (from embassy)
1. Mr. Nikolaos Georgios Dendias, Minister for Foreign Affairs
2. Mr. Nikolaos Panagiotopoulos, Minister for National Defense
3. Ms. Niki Kerameus, Minister of Education and Religious Affairs,
4. Mr. Konstantinos Fragkogiannis, Deputy Minister for Economic Diplomacy and Openness, Ministry for Foreign Affairs,
5. Mr. Ioannis Oikonomou, Deputy Minister to the Prime Minister - Government Spokesperson,
6. Amb. Alexandra Papadopoulou, Ambassador of Greece to the US
7. Amb. Anna Maria Eleni Boura, Director of the Diplomatic Cabinet of the Prime Minister



May 16, 202215:56

Foreign pool report #2 - Greek PM comments
POTUS & Greek PM were seated when WH & greek pool headed into the oval at 3:39pm.
Biden spoke first for about 2mn, followed by Mitsotakis.
Greek PM:
"Over the past 2 centuries our 2 countries have (inaudible) through history, we've fought wars together and of course We are now facing, united, the Russian invasion into Ukraine. At the same time this is an opportunity to reassess the status of our relationship and I honestly believe it is at an all-time high, and I'm not just speaking about the defense relationship."



May 16, 202216:41

Foreign pool report #3
We'll be gathering soon for the reception to celebrate the bicentennial which is scheduled to start at 5pm.
PM Mitsotakis and his wife will attend. Also on the guest list per the Greek embassy are the ministers in the bilat delegation that I sent out earlier, as well as Archbishop Elpidoforos of America and members of the Greek-American community (about 300 people).




  