
    The Rudy Giuliani Presidential Committee today announced that former Director of the FBI, Louis Freeh, has put his support behind Rudy Giuliani for President of the United States. Freeh will serve as Senior Homeland Security Advisor and Chair of the Mayor's campaign in Delaware.
"Rudy Giuliani's optimistic leadership is responsible for making the city of New York what it is today —one of the safest large cities in the country and a place where the world feels safe to visit. Through Rudy's use of innovative crime fighting programs like CompStat, he demonstrated that with determination and strength, solutions can be crafted to seemingly intractable problems," Freeh said. "I have known and admired Rudy for his law enforcement leadership and innovation for over twenty-five years. His devotion to public safety and the rule of law, plus real life knowledge about crime reduction turned one of the country's most dangerous cities into the model for law and order."
"No one knows better than Louie Freeh what it takes to fight crime. I admire Louis Freeh for his dedication to justice and public service and I'm honored to have him as an advisor to the campaign," Mayor Giuliani said.
About Louis Freeh:
Freeh is President of Freeh Group International, LLC, a practice of former federal judges and former senior FBI leaders who provide legal, governance, investigative, litigation, and risk management services, headquartered in Delaware with offices in Washington, DC and New York City. He joined the Board of Bristol-Myers Squibb in 2005 and works with the Board of DaimlerChrysler AG on compliance and other matters. Freeh has also been a member of the L-1 Identity Solutions Board since 2006 and the Fannie Mae Board.
Freeh served as General Counsel, Corporate Secretary and Ethics officer at MBNA Corporation, as well as Vice Chairman of MBNA America Bank, N.A., from 2001 to 2006. Prior to serving as Director of the FBI from 1993 to 2001, Freeh was the United States District Judge, Southern District of New York from 1991 to 1993.
From 1981 to 1991, Freeh served in the U.S Attorney's Office for the Southern District of New York while Rudy was the United States Attorney, including as Deputy United States Attorney; Associate United States Attorney; Chief, Organized Crime Unit; and Assistant United States Attorney. From 1975 to 1981, he worked as a Supervisor and Special Agent for the FBI in Washington, DC and New York. Freeh has a Juris Doctorate degree from Rutgers Law School, a Master of Laws Degree from the New York University School of Law, and a Bachelor's degree from Rutgers College.
  