
    
BURLINGTON, Vt. - U.S. Sen. Bernie Sanders on Sunday applauded Maine Democrats for adopting a resolution to ensure that future state delegations to the party's national convention reflect the outcome of the popular vote.
"Maine is trying to make the Democratic Party more democratic," Sanders said. "I hope other states follow Maine's example. This is the kind of grassroots democracy that will help the Democratic Party grow and win elections."
Maine is one of several states where Sanders scored landslide victories but where most of the so-called superdelegates - elected officials and party insiders - have lined up behind Hillary Clinton.
Sanders won Maine's March 6 caucuses with 64 percent of the vote to Clinton's 36 percent. As a result, Maine's delegation will include 17 elected delegates pledged to Sanders and eight for Clinton. Despite the lopsided outcome in Sanders' favor, three of Maine's five superdelegates still back Clinton. One supports Sanders and one remains uncommitted. Under Maine's new rules, Sanders would have three superdelegates to Clinton's two.
Superdelegates have ignored rank-and-file Democrats in other states too.
In the state of Washington, 73 percent of the caucus-goers backed Sanders last March 26. Clinton has 10 super delegates. He has zero.
In Minnesota, Clinton has 11 superdelegates to Sanders' three despite his 61 percent support in the March 1 caucuses.
In Colorado, Sanders won with 59 percent on March 1 but Clinton has 10 superdelegates and he has none.
In New Hampshire, Sanders on Feb. 9 won more than 60 percent of the popular vote with more votes than any candidate in the 100-year history of the primary. Still, all six superdelegates remain committed to Clinton.
"Superdelegates in states where either candidate has won landslide victories ought to reflect the decision of the people in their states," Sanders said.
The Maine rule change won't affect this year's contest between Sanders and Clinton. For fear of being penalized at this summer's national convention in Philadelphia, the new Maine plan won't take effect until 2020. The resolution, passed at the Maine state party convention on Saturday, does call on the national party to scrap the superdelegate system altogether.
  