
    Chicago, IL - The day after Barack Obama's commanding victory in North Carolina and tight finish in Indiana, three superdelegates today endorsed Barack Obama.
The three previously uncommitted superdelegates endorsing Obama are North Carolina Democratic Party Chairman Jerry Meek, North Carolina DNC member Jeanette Council, and California DNC member Inola Henry.
These endorsements brings the total number of superdelegates to endorse Obama to 261. Senator Obama is 170 delegates away from securing the Democratic nomination.
Chairman Meek said, "Over the past year, I've watched as Barack Obama has drawn countless new people to the political process. Although my position as State Chair has led me to remain neutral through the primary, I've quietly celebrated as Barack Obama offered new hope to millions of Americans who have lost faith in the American dream after years of disastrous Republican policies. Rarely does a public servant emerge with Barack Obama's ability to unite our country and produce real change. With Barack Obama as our nominee, North Carolina can deliver its electoral votes to a Democrat and Democratic candidates up and down the ballot will benefit. Barack Obama offers the best chance to take back the White House, elect countless democrats down-ballot, and breathe new life into the Democratic Party."
Jeanette Council said, "I am pleased today to be endorsing Barack Obama as he continues to unite Americans for change. This election is a unique opportunity for all Americans and Barack Obama's campaign has inspired and changed the entire face of our country. His campaign has mobilized new people and welcomed people of all ages, races, backgrounds, attracted everyone from first time voters to voters who have participated their entire adult lives. The way he has built a campaign that reflects his message of hope and change and brought all different communities to the table is unlike any campaign I have ever seen."
Council added, "I am first and foremost a Democrat and the Democratic Party is truly the party of the people, the party of inclusion that wants to engage all people in the political process. This is what Barack Obama has done. Seeing this happen, especially here in North Carolina, has changed me forever and given me hope that we can change this country. I put much thought, consideration and most importantly prayer into this decision, and today I know I am backing a candidate who can put our country on the right path. I'm proud to endorse him today."
  