
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate six individuals to serve in his Administration:
The President intends to nominate Jan E. Boyer, of Texas, to be United States Alternate Executive Director of the Inter-American Development Bank. Mr. Boyer currently serves as a Visiting Fellow in International Finance and Emerging Markets at the Institute for International Economics. He previously served at the Overseas Private Investment Corporation as Senior Advisor to the President. Earlier in his career, Mr. Boyer worked in private equity investment banking, during which he launched and led three private equity initiatives in emerging markets. He received his bachelor's degree from Stanford University and his master's degree from Harvard University.
The President intends to nominate Timothy E. Flanigan, of Virginia, to be Deputy Attorney General at the Department of Justice. Mr. Flanigan currently serves as Senior Vice President and General Counsel - Corporate and International for Tyco International. He previously served as Deputy Assistant to the President and Deputy Counsel at the White House. Prior to joining the Administration, Mr. Flanigan was a partner in the law firm of White & Case, LLP. Earlier in his career, he served as Assistant Attorney General in the Office of Legal Counsel at the Department of Justice. Mr. Flanigan received his bachelor's degree from Brigham Young University and his J.D. from the University of Virginia.
The President intends to nominate William Alan Jeffrey, of Virginia, to be Director of the National Institute of Standards and Technology at the Department of Commerce. He currently serves as Senior Director for Homeland and National Security and Assistant Director for Space and Aeronautics in the Office of Science and Technology Policy at the White House. Earlier in his career, he was Deputy Director of the Advanced Technology Office of the Defense Advanced Research Projects Office Agency. Mr. Jeffrey also served as Assistant Deputy Director for Technology in the Defense Airborne Reconnaissance Office. He earned his bachelor's degree from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology as well as his master's degree and Ph.D. from Harvard University.
The President intends to nominate Ashok G. Kaveeshwar, of Maryland, to be Administrator of the Research and Innovative Technology Administration at the Department of Transportation. He currently serves as President of Orange Technologies, Inc., a small business that provides information technology to government and commercial customers. He previously served as Senior Vice President of Raytheon Technical Services Company. Earlier in his career, Dr. Kaveeshwar was President and CEO of Hughes STX Corporation, a subsidiary of Hughes Electronics Corporation. He received his bachelor's degree from the University of Ujjain, India and his Ph.D. from the State University of New York at Buffalo.
The President intends to nominate Walter Lukken, of Indiana, to be a Commissioner of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, for the remainder of a five-year term expiring April 13, 2010. He currently serves as Commissioner of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission. Mr. Lukken previously served on the U.S. Senate Agriculture Committee as a professional staff member. Prior to that, he was a Legislative Assistant to Senator Richard Lugar. Mr. Lukken received his bachelor's degree from Indiana University and his J.D. from Lewis and Clark College.
The President intends to nominate Kathie L. Olsen, of Oregon, to be Deputy Director of the National Science Foundation. She currently serves as Associate Director of Science in the Office of Science and Technology Policy at the White House. Dr. Olsen previously served as Chief Scientist at the National Aeronautics and Space Administration. Earlier in her career, she worked in the Office of Integrative Activities at the National Science Foundation overseeing NSF's science and technology centers as a Senior Staff Associate. Dr. Olsen received her bachelor's degree from Chatham College and her Ph.D. from the University of California at Irvine.
  