
    NOMINATIONS SENT TO THE SENATE:
John M. Barger, of California, to be a Member of the Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board for a term expiring October 11, 2022, vice David Avren Jones, term expired.
Erik Paul Bethel, of Florida, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Panama.
Marshall Billingslea, of Virginia, to be Under Secretary of State for Arms Control and International Security, vice Andrea L. Thompson, resigned.
Christopher Bancroft Burnham, of Connecticut, to be a Member of the Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board for a term expiring September 25, 2024, vice Ronald David McCray, term expired.
Joyce Louise Connery, of Virginia, to be a Member of the Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board for a term expiring October 18, 2024. (Reappointment)
Frank Dunlevy, of California, to be a Member of the Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board for a term expiring September 25, 2022, vice Michael D. Kennedy, term expired.
Julie D. Fisher, of Tennessee, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Belarus.
Scott Hutchins, of Indiana, to be Under Secretary of Agriculture for Research, Education, and Economics, vice Catherine E. Woteki.
Kristi Haskins Johnson, of Mississippi, to be United States District Judge for the Southern District of Mississippi, vice Keith Starrett, retired.
Saritha Komatireddy, of New York, to be United States District Judge for the Eastern District of New York, vice Joseph Frank Bianco, elevated.
Iris Lan, of New York, to be United States District Judge for the Southern District of New York, vice Katherine B. Forrest, resigned.
Leora Rosenberg Levy, of Connecticut, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Chile.
Shon J. Manasco, of Texas, to be Under Secretary of the Air Force, vice Matthew P. Donovan, resigned.
Christopher C. Miller, of Virginia, to be Director of the National Counterterrorism Center, Office of the Director of National Intelligence, vice Joseph Maguire.
Michael N. Nemelka, of Utah, to be a Deputy United States Trade Representative (Investment, Services, Labor, Environment, Africa, China, and the Western Hemisphere), with the rank of Ambassador, vice C. J. Mahoney.
Michele A. Pearce, of Virginia, to be General Counsel of the Department of the Army, vice James E. McPherson, resigned.
Ashok Michael Pinto, of Illinois, to be United States Alternate Executive Director of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for a term of two years, vice Erik Bethel, resigned.
Jennifer H. Rearden, of New York, to be United States District Judge for the Southern District of New York, vice Richard Sullivan, elevated.
Manisha Singh, of Florida, to be Representative of the United States of America to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, with the rank of Ambassador.
Katharine T. Sullivan, of the District of Columbia, to be an Assistant Attorney General, vice Karol Virginia Mason.
Thomas A. Summers, of Pennsylvania, to be a Member of the Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board for a term expiring October 18, 2025. (Reappointment)
Joel Szabat, of Maryland, to be Under Secretary of Transportation for Policy, vice Derek Kan.
Gregory Scott Tabor, of Arkansas, to be United States Marshal for the Western District of Arkansas for the term of four years, vice Harold Michael Oglesby, term expired.
Mary A. Toman, of California, to be Under Secretary of Commerce for Economic Affairs, vice Karen Dunn Kelley.
Thomas Laszlo Vajda, of Arizona, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Union of Burma.
Russell Vought, of Virginia, to be Director of the Office of Management and Budget, vice Mick Mulvaney.
Justin Reed Walker, of Kentucky, to be United States Circuit Judge for the District of Columbia Circuit, vice Thomas B. Griffith, retiring.
Michael J. Walsh, Jr., of Virginia, to be General Counsel of the Department of Commerce, vice Peter B. Davidson.
John E. Whitley, of Virginia, to be Director of Cost Assessment and Program Evaluation, Department of Defense, vice Robert Daigle, resigned.
Cory T. Wilson, of Mississippi, to be United States Circuit Judge for the Fifth Circuit, vice E. Grady Jolly, retired.
WITHDRAWAL SENT TO THE SENATE:
Cory T. Wilson, of Mississippi, to be United States District Judge for the Southern District of Mississippi, vice Louis Guirola, Jr., retired, which was sent to the Senate on January 6, 2020.
  