
    THE VICE PRESIDENT: Well, thank you, General Ellis, and to General Carr. How about a big round of applause for the incredible leadership here in the state of Indiana. (Applause.) I'm proud of you. Really proud of you.
Well, thank you all for letting us step inside of this Divisional Headquarters. It will be downrange in the not-distant future. We're here because tomorrow is Armed Forces Day, and on behalf of our family -- my wife Karen, and myself -- on behalf of families across this country, and on behalf of the Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of the United States, we are here to say to you and your families, thank you for your service. You make us proud every day.
AUDIENCE: Hooah! (Applause.)
THE VICE PRESIDENT: And we gather here today to commend each and every one of you. And we'll mark Armed Forces Day tomorrow, all across the country.
But I know all of our hearts are in Santa Fe, Texas today. And we all continue to learn more details of the -- of another school shooting that's claimed innocent lives. More were injured, including two police officers.
And I just want to assure all of you that we'll continue to do everything in our power to bring safety and security to this nation, and to do everything we can to make sure that our schools are safe.
We've taken steps already, with the President's leadership. Working with the Congress, we'll continue to provide new resources and new tools until we make sure that we end this evil against our children and our schools in our time.
But days like today, we think of the first responders who engaged the attacker, who brought him into custody, and who ended the attack.
And it's a day that we're very grateful to everyone who puts on the uniform, including in our all-volunteer army. Now, those of you that have stepped forward -- whether you put on the uniform to a protect a community at home or whether you put on the uniform to protect the nation, I can assure you that the people of this country are grateful and are proud of your service.
And I hope our family -- my wife's dad was Air Force. My dad was Army.
AUDIENCE: Hooah!
THE VICE PRESIDENT: We are the proud parents of a United States Marine.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Oorah! (Laughter.)
THE VICE PRESIDENT: And let me just also say, just on behalf of all the families of this country that benefit by your courage and service, Happy Armed Forces Day. Thank you for your service to the United States of America. And God bless you all. It's good to be with you. (Applause.)
  