
    Yesterday, President Biden and Vice President Harris announced they are lowering the cost of high-speed internet for families nationwide. The Biden-Harris Administration secured commitments from 20 internet providers to lower prices and increase internet speeds for tens of millions of households across the country eligible to participate in the Affordable Connectivity Program, which was established in the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law. Yesterday's announcement is another example of how the President and Vice President remain laser-focused on using every tool to bring down costs, especially for necessities like internet that are vital to work, learn, and participate in a 21st century economy.
Here's what they are saying:
Members of Congress
Chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee, Virginia Senator Mark Warner: "When we negotiated our infrastructure law, it was important to me that it included provisions to make broadband more accessible AND affordable. This is another great step towards making that happen." [Tweet, 5/9/22]
Colorado Senator John Hickenlooper: "Thanks to our Bipartisan Infrastructure Bill, internet providers large and small are cutting prices for millions of Americans." [Tweet, 5/9/22]
New Hampshire Senator Jeanne Shaheen: "This is huge. As I negotiated the #BIF broadband provisions, I took what I've long heard from Granite Staters in rural areas in need of high-speed internet to get to the root of the problem. These new plans will ensure affordable internet options are available across NH." [Tweet, 5/9/22]
Chairman of the House Veteran's Affairs Committee, California Congressman Mark Takano: "High-speed internet is a necessity. I applaud the Biden Administration for introducing the Affordable Connectivity Program to cap the cost of internet for 48 million Americans." [Tweet, 5/9/22]
Florida Congresswoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz: "Struggling to pay for internet? @POTUS secured cable company pledges to cut costs & increase speeds for lower-income families. Millions will get free internet for school, work, and doctor visits. @HouseDecomcrats will cut costs & close the digital divide." [Tweet, 5/9/22]
Michigan Congresswoman Haley Stevens: "GREAT NEWS! Thanks to funding in the #BipartisanInfrastructureLaw, millions of American families are now eligible for high-speed internet at no cost, bringing us closer to closing the #DigitalDivide. Thank you, @POTUS!" [Tweet, 5/9/22]
Missouri Congressman Emanuel Cleaver: "The @WhiteHouse and @POTUS are laser-focused on lowering costs for hardworking American families. Thanks to the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, millions of Americans are now eligible for the Affordable Connectivity Program." [Tweet, 5/9/22]
New York Congressman Brian Higgins: "Thanks to the #BipartisanInfrastructureLaw, we are investing in measures to mitigate the digital divide in WNY. The Affordable Connectivity Program provides monthly discounts on internet bills & a one-time discount on a device." [Tweet, 5/9/22]
Ohio Congresswoman Shontel Brown: "The Bipartisan Infrastructure Law created a new program to provide $30/month internet discounts to eligible Americans. Now, @POTUS has secured commitments from 20 internet providers to offer $30 plans, making internet effectively free for millions." [Tweet, 5/9/22]
Pennsylvania Congressman Mike Doyle: "Thanks to #POTUS and the #InfrastructureInvestmentandJobsAct I supported, millions of Americans are eligible for $30 per month to help pay for high speed internet – making this essential service affordable for low-income households" [Tweet, 5/9/22]
Rhode Island Congressman Jim Langevin: "High-speed internet is not a luxury – it's a necessity. It's how people participate in the 21st century economy. Thanks to the Bipartisan Infrastructure Deal, 40% of American households now qualify for cheaper internet." [Tweet, 5/9/22]
Washington Congresswoman Suzan DelBene: "In the 21st century, reliable, affordable broadband is a necessity for work, school, health care, & so much more. The historic bipartisan infrastructure law will bring us closer to universal broadband. The agreement @POTUS reached w/ Internet providers across the country is another key step towards that goal." [Tweets, 5/9/22]
Governors
Nevada Governor Steve Sisolak: "I applaud the White House's commitment, with support from Nevada's federal delegation, to increase internet access for more residents – across the country and right here in Nevada. This initiative aligns with the work we are doing here in Nevada to bring high-speed internet access to every corner of the State." [Statement, 5/9/22]
Pennsylvania Governor Tom Wolf: "Broadband access is a necessity today, and that connectivity is critical to ensuring that Pennsylvanians can navigate their lives, whether through work, education, health care, community engagement, and more. Along with access, affordability is also imperative, and the historic Bipartisan Infrastructure Law is making this happen. I'm pleased that the Biden Administration, as well as internet service providers, recognize and share this commitment to broadband access and affordability. Today's announcement is another step forward for Pennsylvanians who want and deserve this infrastructure." [Statement, 5/9/22]
Government Associations
Larry Johnson, President, National Association of Counties: "High-speed internet is a necessity that expands opportunities for all residents to thrive. Today's announcement aims to bring all stakeholders together to help connect some of our most disconnected communities." [Statement, 5/9/22]
Advocacy Leaders and Organizations
Derrick Johnson, President, NAACP: "It's time to democratize the internet. The lack of internet access in America has hit Black and brown communities hard. President Biden's announcement today to provide free Internet to nearly 50 million households is a substantial stride toward building an inclusive economy. Internet access is a necessity in today's world. The pandemic has shined a spotlight on what we already knew to be true: the internet is essential as millions work and study from home, but it has not been afforded to all. Historic underinvestment in infrastructure in Black communities, intentional and as a result of neglect, has left Black communities behind. As we have shifted to a digital economy, this disparity has deepened gaps in achievement and success. The President's plan is a historic investment and proof that the Biden-Harris Administration understands this will be a big deal for families across America and communities of color." [Statement, 5/9/22]
Marc H. Morial, President and CEO, National Urban League: "The National Urban League has long believed access to affordable, reliable broadband is a civil right. Currently, 47 million people in America do not have access to broadband services because they are unable to afford it. Our Lewis Latimer Plan called for a broadband benefit to address this need, and the Biden Harris Administration answered the call with the Affordable Connectivity Program. Our goal now is to ensure every eligible household knows about this program, successfully enrolls, and experiences the benefits of broadband. Trusted community organizations like Urban League affiliates will be instrumental in this effort, and we stand ready to ensure communities are connected and empowered." [Statement, 5/9/22]
Maya Wiley, president and CEO, The Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights: "The Biden administration has walked its talk by delivering on more affordable broadband for millions of households through the Affordable Connectivity Program. That is the difference between going on-line at home to make a vaccine appointment, applying for a job, or keeping up with schoolwork – or not. We have more work ahead to fully bridge the digital divide and look forward to working with the administration to ensure digital inclusion, but the ACP program is an important step forward." [Statement, 5/9/22]
Brenda V. Castillo, President and CEO, National Hispanic Media Coalition: "Over a third of Latinx do not have access to the intent at home. That means one in three Latinos cannot access online education, remote work, telegraph services, or the digital economy. Digital equity, including closing the Latinx digital divide, is one of the greatest civil rights challenges of our time. NHMC is proud to support the Affordable Connectivity Program to help Latinx get and stay online." [Statement, 5/9/22]
Frankie Miranda, President and CEO, Hispanic Federation: "We are delighted with today's announcement by President Biden and Vice President Harris that the White House has secured commitments from 20 major internet providers to provide unlimited high-speed internet at $30 per month for ACP-eligible families. The Biden Administration and these providers are to be commended for making broadband internet essentially free for low-income families and for taking a huge step to ending the digital divide. We look forward to supporting their efforts to get the word out about this important program and these substantial commitments." [Statement, 5/9/22]
Robert E. Branson, President and CEO, Multicultural Media, Telecom and Internet Council: "The Multicultural Media, Telecom and Internet Council (MMTC) supports the FCC Affordable Connectivity Program's benefit that provides a discount of up to $30 per month toward internet service for eligible households because it ensures broadband access and helps close the digital divide. Through its partnership with Black church leaders, the MMTC helped launch the Black Churches 4 Digital Equity Coalition to educate the Black community about broadband internet assistance programs, encourage unconnected households to get online, to train and organize leaders as advocates to get their communities connected, and to advance digital equity." [Statement, 5/9/22]
Rich Dubois, Executive Director, National Consumer Law Center: "The Affordable Connectivity Program (ACP) reduces the cost-barrier to internet connectivity for low-income families. Participation in modern society demands that households have a broadband internet connection, and NCLC is committed to working with consumer practitioners and advocates to answer ACP enrollment and eligibility questions and help low-income families get affordable, reliable internet access." [Statement, 5/9/22]
Steven Renderos, Executive Director, MediaJustice: "During a pandemic in which a lack of internet access was highly correlated with COVID deaths, community organizations like ours and those in our MediaJustice Network did everything possible to make sure our communities could get and stay connected, regardless of what they could afford. We're thankful to programs like ACP because it is compelling large ISPs, the only choice for tens of millions in the U.S., finally come to the table so that cost will be less of a barrier for those in our communities to get access to all of the services, information and relationships necessary for modern life." [Statement, 5/9/22]
Mignon Clyburn, Former Federal Communications Commission (FCC) Commissioner and Co-Chair, INCOMPAS BroadLAND Campaign: "Small competitive internet service providers have been at the forefront of helping Americans get better, faster internet service at prices they can afford. We are thrilled the White House has partnered with two INCOMPAS members – IdeaTek, that is transforming the lives of families and small businesses in rural Kansas with their fiber service, and Starry, that has brought low-cost, high-speed connectivity solutions to customers living in apartment and public housing complexes in large metro areas across the nation. Competition in the marketplace is the leading driver for more affordability, innovation, speed and better customer service. Additional competition is key to tackling our nation's internet challenges. We want to praise bipartisan efforts in Congress and encourage pro-competition action by agencies including the FCC, NTIA, and Treasury Department as we move our nation toward a brighter broadband future." [Statement, 5/9/22]
Adrianne B. Furniss, Executive Director, Benton Institute for Broadband & Society: "As Vice President Harris said today, 'Everyone in the U.S. should be able to afford broadband access.' Today's White House announcement will improve affordable access for low-income families. In addition, the work supported by the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act and the American Rescue Plan that will be done in the States should ensure that affordable, robust broadband networks reach every address in the country. The commitments secured by the White House from 20 leading internet providers covering 80% of the U.S. population to either increase speeds or cut prices to make sure that ACP-eligible households get high-quality, affordable internet are small steps to the U.S. realizing full digital equity. We have a long way to go, but it is critical that the Administration continues to lead on ensuring that broadband is truly universal." [Statement, 5/9/22]
John Yang, President and CEO, Asian American Justice Center (AAJC): "We are grateful for the work of the White House and industry partners in ensuring that high-speed internet is affordable for everyone. Advancing Justice - AAJC remains committed to working with them and other stakeholders to ensure that our community knows about and accesses these benefits. Programs like the Affordable Connectivity Program (ACP) and in-language outreach efforts are critical to bridging the digital divide, especially in underserved Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander communities that rely on internet connections to access essential services such as healthcare and education." [Statement, 5/9/22]
RuralOrganizing.org: "Today, @RuralOrganizing was in attendance as @POTUS announced this historical expansion of internet to millions of low-income households. 'It's going to change people's lives… From rural Appalachia to Brooklyn, to the Black Belt families who have struggled to get internet.'" [Tweet, 5/9/22]
Matt Dunne, Executive Director, Center on Rural Innovation: "Honored to be at the White House for the announcement of infrastructure bill funding and public-private partnerships for better affordability. 'Connection to broadband is a connection to opportunity.' VP Harris @Ruralinno." [Tweet, 5/9/22]
Labor Unions
Terry O'Sullivan, General President, Laborers' International Union of North America (LIUNA): "LIUNA welcomes today's announcement on the expansion of affordable broadband access as part of the rollout of the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law. The White House is helping working men and women by lowering the cost of high speed internet for millions of Americans and ensuring that public investment in building broadband infrastructure will create good, family-supporting jobs. The Biden-Harris Administration is determined to end the digital divide by providing better and more affordable access across the nation to as many as 48 million American households. LIUNA members look forward to joining the Administration in helping to build world-class infrastructure that connects every American household." [Statement, 5/9/22]
Communications Workers of America: "Today's announcement that 20 internet service providers have committed to lowering the cost of plans for households that are eligible for the Affordable Connectivity Program is good news for the millions of Americans who cannot afford high speed, high quality broadband connections. Securing these commitments continues the Biden Administration's strong leadership on not only building out broadband but making sure it is affordable. In addition to promoting the Affordable Connectivity Program in their communities, members of CWA's Broadband Brigade have been working to ensure that grants provided to states by the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law for broadband buildout go to high road employers and help create good, union jobs. While affordability and accessibility are important, they are not enough. Internet service providers must be held accountable for the services they provide. Unfortunately, many of the same providers who have agreed to lower prices have been trying to derail the Senate confirmation of Gigi Sohn to the Federal Communications Commission. Without a full slate of Commissioners, the FCC cannot provide the oversight and enforceable protections necessary for truly affordable, accessible broadband." [Statement, 5/9/22]
Business Leaders
Dexter Goei, CEO, Altice USA: "Altice USA through our Optimum and Suddenlink brands is proud to participate in the Affordable Connectivity Program, which makes critical broadband access free for eligible households. By actively marketing ACP and partnering with local community organizations, Altice USA is focused on increasing participation in the program to foster adoption of in-home broadband across our footprint." [Statement, 5/9/22]
Tom Rutledge, Chairman and CEO, Charter Communications: "Charter has long been committed to increasing connectivity by addressing broadband access, adoption and affordability, including through the ongoing extension of our broadband network into unserved and rural areas, our low-cost broadband offerings for eligible families and seniors, our participation in the Emergency Broadband Benefit Program, and our Stay Connected program for K-12 schools. We are pleased to participate in the Affordable Connectivity Program, which builds on Charter's long-standing, voluntary commitments to increase connectivity." [Statement, 5/9/22]
Leigh Fox, President, CEO of altafiber and Hawaiian Telcom: "Access to high-speed Internet is essential for individuals and families to take advantage of educational, healthcare, and employment opportunities. We are excited to be part of this important program that will create more digital equity in the communities we serve." [Statement, 5/9/22]
John Stankey, CEO, AT&T: "It's time for every American to experience the social, economic, health, employment and educational benefits of universal scaled access to the Internet. As part of AT&T's commitment to narrowing the digital divide, we are offering affordable high-speed internet to more Americans and the Affordable Connectivity Program (ACP) helps make that possible. Our Access from AT&T plan, when combined with federal ACP benefits, provides up to 100 Mbps of free internet service for eligible households. Internet for all requires the partnership of business and government, and we are pleased to be working with the Administration, Congress and FCC to ensure everyone has accessible, affordable and sustainable broadband service." [Statement, 5/9/22]
Chet Kanojia, Co-Founder and CEO, Starry: "We're proud to do our part and support the Administration's efforts to connect every American household to reliable, affordable, high-speed broadband. Every family deserves and needs access to broadband. The Affordable Connectivity Program is one of many tools we can leverage to help income vulnerable families get the connectivity they need to thrive." [Statement, 5/9/22]
Teresa Elder, CEO, WOW! Internet, TV and Phone Serves: "The pandemic has exacerbated the barriers that exist for people who have limited or no access to reliable, high-speed internet, which is a necessity in today's remote learning and working environment. We are pleased to partner with the White House to lower costs and provide for a more equitable playing field so more American families will have access to broadband and the tools they need to help them fulfill their potential." [Statement, 5/9/22]
James Gleason, President & CEO, Vexus Fiber: "Vexus is proud to offer a 100% fiber broadband option for lower income households in our service areas in Texas and Louisiana. High quality broadband service is essential in all homes regardless of income to support learning, work and overall connectivity. We at Vexus applaud the ACP program and its goal to ensure all American homes have affordable access to broadband service." [Statement, 5/9/22]
MLGC: "For the past 116 years, MLGC has provided affordable connectivity to our valued customers. During this challenging time, it is only fitting we continue to do what we can to make broadband access more affordable to more people. We are proud to work with the administration in making this commitment." [Statement, 5/9/22]
Bryant Barnes, President and CEO, Comporium: "The past two years have demonstrated quite clearly what we always knew – the availability of high-quality broadband at home is a necessity of modern life. Comporium is proud to partner with the White House through the Affordable Connectivity Program to bring free broadband service to those who cannot otherwise afford it. This program will allow member of qualifying households to do schoolwork, meet with doctors virtually, apply for jobs and work from home if necessary – all activities many of us have come to take for granted." [Statement, 5/9/22]
Ben Lovins, SVP, Telecommunications Division, Jackson Energy Authority: "The Affordable Connectivity Program's investment in broadband is helping households across the country including our community in Jackson, TN to connect to this modern-day necessity. This initiative allows Jackson Energy Authority to assist local families in getting the fiber optic Internet connections they need for work, home, school, healthcare, and more." [Statement, 5/9/22]
Rocco B. Commisso, Founder, Chariman, and CEO, Mediacom: "Over the past 27 years, Mediacom has invested over $13 billion to ensure the residents and businesses in the 1,500 smaller cities and towns we serve have access to the tools and technology needed to keep pace with America's largest metropolitan markets. We are proud to leverage these private investments in partnership with the FCC's Affordable Connectivity Program and encourage broadband adoption by making 100 Mbps download speeds available for $30 per month to qualifying households across our national footprint." [Statement, 5/9/22]
Frank van der Post, President, Breezeline: "We believe that communities benefit when they have easy access to superfast broadband internet for work-from-home, learning, telemedicine and more. That is why we are committed to initiatives that will extend the reach of affordable broadband to underserved communities through rural broadband initiatives, as well as participation in ACP and its predecessor programs, including the Emergency Broadband Benefit." [Statement, 5/9/22]
IdeaTek Co-Founder and Chief Innovation Officer Daniel Friesen: "Being connected is essential. Our mission for internet freedom means we believe everyone should have access to fast, reliable internet and the opportunities it provides - even when the budget is tight. ACP is an important step to help drive broadband adoption across Kansas," he added. "This partnership demonstrates our shared commitment to ensure all Kansas households have internet connectivity." [Statement, 5/9/22]
Brad Moline, President and CEO, ALLO Communications: "At ALLO, our mission is to build and support gigabit societies. Through ubiquitous fiber networks, we compete to serve all households, businesses, and governmental entities across our communities. With support from the Affordable Connectivity Program, we will ensure all qualifying households with financial needs receive symmetrical 100 Mbps internet service for an exceptional experience learning, working, and connecting from home." Brad Moline, President and CEO, ALL Communications." [Statement, 5/9/22]
Nick Jeffery, CEO, Frontier: "Frontier is pleased to partner with the Biden Administration and the FCC to connect more Americans than ever before with high-speed broadband services as part of the Affordable Connectivity Program. As we Build Gigabit America, we're committed to delivering fiber-to-the-premises gigabit services to 10 million locations by the end of 2025. This government program will allow us to connect more families and communities with critical connectivity for free or at a reduced cost." [Statement, 5/9/22]
David N. Watson, Chief Executive Officer and President, Comcast Cable: "The Affordable Connectivity Program is a historic opportunity to close the digital divide by empowering more Americans to get online and connect to our increasingly digital world. Comcast is committed to making ACP available to all our eligible Internet customers and our new, more powerful Internet Essentials Plus offering is free to all who qualify. We have been working on digital equity issues for over a decade and believe this new program offers even more support to achieve those goals. We are proud to work together with our government and community partners to close the digital divide." [Statement, 5/9/22]
  