
    "This action reversed an ill-advised and dangerous policy and set us on a new course that will address the aggressive and hostile behavior of our enemies, while enhancing our ties with partners and allies."
The Iran deal was betrayed by its own abysmal record
By National Security Advisor John Bolton
The Washington Post
May 9, 2018
On Tuesday, President Trump announced his decision to withdraw from the failed Iran nuclear deal. The president has famously referred to it as "the worst deal in history." Its very premise has been betrayed by its own abysmal track record over the past two years.
The theory behind the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action, or JCPOA, was that the Iranian regime would, in the interests of its own people, trade its nuclear ambitions for economic incentives. But rather than focusing on behaving responsibly, Tehran has poured billions of dollars into military adventures abroad, spreading an arc of death and destruction across the Middle East from Yemen to Syria. Meanwhile, the Iranian people have suffered at home from a tanking currency, rising inflation, stagnant wages and a spiraling environmental crisis.
President Trump acted prudently. He spent more than a year studying the deal, soliciting information and assessments from within his administration, and consulting with our allies. He decided that this deal actually undermines the security of the American people he swore to protect and, accordingly, ended U.S. participation in it. This action reversed an ill-advised and dangerous policy and set us on a new course that will address the aggressive and hostile behavior of our enemies, while enhancing our ties with partners and allies.
...
The Iran deal is not an inescapable trap — it's merely an inadequate deal that couldn't withstand serious scrutiny. The president's commitment to keeping his word is evident in his recognition of Jerusalem as Israel's capital — something three previous presidents had promised but failed to deliver. And President Trump created the opportunity for direct negotiation with North Korea. While the future remains uncertain and challenging, one thing we know for sure is that the president will always put America First.
Read the full op-ed here.
  