
    The Biden-Harris Administration's Department of the Interior announced a momentous agreement among the seven Colorado River Basin states on a consensus-based proposal to protect the stability of the Colorado River System in the face of climate change and historic drought conditions.
Thanks to the President's Investing in America agenda, the White House is deploying record resources to support water conservation and improve the Colorado River's long-term sustainability. This approach will benefit the 40 million people who rely on the Colorado River Basin for agriculture, drinking water, and power, and is a critical step to building a sustainable, resilient future for states, Tribes and communities throughout the West.
President Biden and members of his Administration highlighted how President Biden's policies are investing in communities directly.
See below for a sampling of what Americans are reading:
Nationwide
New York Times: A Breakthrough Deal to Keep the Colorado River From Going Dry, for Now The Bureau of Reclamation, an agency within the Interior Department, determines how much water each of the three states receives. The other states that depend on the Colorado get water directly from the river and its tributaries. "This is an important step forward toward our shared goal of forging a sustainable path for the basin that millions of people call home," Camille Calimlim Touton, the Bureau of Reclamation commissioner, said in a statement.
"I am very happy with this proposal," Tom Buschatzke, director of Arizona's Department of Water Resources and the state's lead negotiator in the talks, said on Monday. "I think there is a lot of equity in it."
NBC: Three states agree to reduce water usage so the Colorado River doesn't go dry Three states — Arizona, California and Nevada — have agreed on a plan to conserve at least 3 million acre-feet of water by 2026 — roughly the equivalent to the amount of water it would take to fill 6 million Olympic-sized swimming pools. The Biden administration, which helped broker the agreement, announced the consensus deal Monday in a news release.
Interior Secretary Deb Haaland said in the release that the announcement was "a testament to the Biden-Harris administration's commitment to working with states, Tribes and communities throughout the West to find consensus solutions in the face of climate change and sustained drought." Once analyzed and officially approved by the Bureau of Reclamation, which operates the dams on Lake Mead and Lake Powell, the new agreement would be in place through 2026. "This is a big deal," said Robert Glennon, a professor emeritus at the University of Arizona who specializes in water law and policy, adding that the problems states faced were "truly historic and potentially catastrophic if either Lake Powell or Lake Mead hit dead pool."
… "California has stepped up to make significant cuts to water usage and now, this historic partnership between California and other Lower Basin states will help maintain critical water supply for millions of Americans as we work together to ensure the long-term sustainability of the Colorado River System for decades to come," California Gov. Gavin Newsom said in a news release.
CNN: States reach landmark deal on water cuts to stave off a crisis on the Colorado River Interior Sec. Deb Haaland said in a statement that the deal was a "testament" to the Biden administration's "commitment to working with states, Tribes and communities throughout the West to find consensus solutions in the face of climate change and sustained drought." President Joe Biden applauded the deal in a statement, saying the agreement "marks an important step forward in our efforts to protect the stability of the Colorado River System in the face of climate change and historic drought conditions."
Washington Post: States reach deal with Biden to protect drought-stricken Colorado River The Biden administration has committed to compensating the states for three-quarters of the water savings — or 2.3 million acre-feet — which would amount to about $1.2 billion in federal funds, the people familiar with the talks said. The money from the Inflation Reduction Act would pay farmers, Native American tribes, cities and others who voluntarily forgo their supplies. "There are 40 million people, seven states, and 30 Tribal Nations who rely on the Colorado River Basin for basic services such as drinking water and electricity," Interior Secretary Deb Haaland said in a statement Monday. "Today's announcement is a testament to the Biden-Harris administration's commitment to working with states, Tribes and communities throughout the West to find consensus solutions in the face of climate change and sustained drought."
Reuters: Western states reach 'historic' deal to help save Colorado River Arizona, California and Nevada will reduce intake by 3 million acre-feet (3.7 billion cubic meters) through the end of 2026, an amount equal to 13% of their river allotment, under a deal brokered and announced by the Biden administration… Moreover, the Biden administration made it rain with $1.2 billion in grants under the Inflation Reduction Act (IRA) of 2022 that will compensate local water districts, cities and Native American tribes for cutting back. "This year's hydrology was really important, and not only the rains in California," said Estevan Lopez, New Mexico's signatory to the deal as the state's commissioner to the river compact. "That made this possible, along with the funding from the IRA."
E&E News: Colorado River states strike deal to save water, hydropower State officials from the three Lower Basin states announced their agreement Monday in a letter to Bureau of Reclamation Commissioner Camille Calimlim Touton, following nearly a year of contentious negotiations about how to share the pain of reductions in water use. The Biden administration touted the "historic" proposal, which would require the federal government to give $1.2 billion to the three states and other users taking cuts.The cuts would be shared by both farmers and municipalities, which tap the river for drinking water. Although the deal would represent significant reductions in water use, an unexpectedly wet winter staved off the need for more aggressive reductions in the Lower Basin. Record snowpacks and subsequent spring runoff have boosted water levels in the river basin and its reservoirs.
President Joe Biden celebrated the agreement, saying in a statement the deal "marks an important step forward in our efforts to protect the stability of the Colorado River System in the face of climate change and historic drought conditions."
Al Jazeera: Western US states reach deal on Colorado River conservation Monday's deal was reached when all seven states agreed to a proposal that would temporarily avert the possibility of the US Bureau of Reclamation imposing mandatory cuts on the lower basin states. In a statement on Monday, President Joe Biden linked the deal, which he called an "important step forward", to larger efforts his administration has taken to combat climate change and improve infrastructure, lauding the "record resources to support water conservation and improve the Colorado River's long-term sustainability".
Arizona
KTAR News: Arizona, other Southwest states agree on new Colorado River water plan The Lower Basin states are entitled to 7.5 million acre-feet of water altogether from the river (an acre-foot is roughly enough to serve two or three U.S. households for a year). But for the past two years, Arizona and Nevada to a lesser degree have not received their full allocations thanks to agreed-upon water cuts to keep more water in the system. California has been spared so far from those cuts thanks to its senior water rights. "Thanks to the partnership of our fellow Basin States and historic investments in drought funding, we now have a path forward to build our reservoirs back up in the near-term," Arizona Gov. Katie Hobbs said in a press release. "From here, our work must continue to take action and address the long-term issues of climate change and overallocation to ensure we have a sustainable Colorado River for all who rely upon it."
Arizona Republic: Arizona, California and Nevada give feds plan to save 3M acre-feet of Colorado River water "Today's announcement is a testament to the Biden-Harris administration's commitment to working with states, Tribes and communities throughout the West to find consensus solutions in the face of climate change and sustained drought," Interior Secretary Deb Haaland said in a statement. The states' proposal reflects improved conditions on the river since federal officials first sought bigger cuts last year, said Tom Buschatzke, director of the Arizona Department of Water Resources. In fact, he expects that if Interior accepts the plan, the big snowpack now melting in the Rockies will help raise Lake Mead's storage over three years, rather than just stabilizing it.
California
KYMA/KECY: Lower basin plan proposes conservation of Colorado River water The Lower Basin Plan proposes to conserve 3 million acre-feet of Colorado River water through 2026, with at least 1.5 million acre-feet in total being conserved by the end of 2024. The Imperial Irrigation District (IID) said they're looking forward to Reclamation analyzing the submittal of the Lower Basin Plan done by representatives of the seven Colorado River Basin States.
"IID is pleased that the Lower Basin States have come to consensus with the development of a plan that is based on voluntary, achievable conservation volumes that will help protect critical Colorado River reservoir elevations, and in particular Lake Mead, which IID is reliant upon for 100% of the Imperial Valley's water supplies," said Henry Martinez, IID General Manager.
Times of San Diego: SoCal Water Officials Hail Tri-State Agreement to Cut Colorado River Usage Leaders of Southern California's water wholesaler hailed a three-state agreement announced Monday aimed at dramatically reducing the amount of water pulled from the Colorado River over the next three years. The proposed deal among California, Nevada, Arizona and the federal government would stave off what could have been far more dramatic cuts imposed by federal regulators had the states not brokered a deal by the end of the month. According to the U.S. Department of the Interior, the agreement would conserve at least 3 million acre-feet of water by the end of 2026, achieved through reductions in use by the three states, along with cities, water districts and farming operations, offset by what is anticipated to amount to more than $1 billion in federal grants through the Inflation Reduction Act. An acre-foot of water is roughly the amount used by at least two households a year.
"The consensus alternative agreed to with our partners across the Lower Basin will produce exactly the short-term stability to the Colorado River system we need," Adel Hagekhalil, general manager of the Metropolitan Water District of Southern California, said in a statement. "Through federal funding from the Inflation Reduction Act and additional non-compensated contributions by the Lower Basin states, and thanks to this year's wet winter, the near-term risks facing lakes Mead and Powell will be avoided. We are grateful Reclamation has agreed to analyze this consensus plan, and we are hopeful it will emerge as the preferred alternative."
Palm Springs Desert Sun: Colorado River basin states reach historic deal on water cutbacks to stave off crisis While it must undergo federal review and approvals, it was hailed Monday by federal and state officials as a breakthrough agreement that will prop up the river long enough to allow officials to quickly pivot to negotiating over how to save the massive river system long-term. "It's huge progress, undeniably huge progress," California Natural Resources Secretary Wade Crowfoot said in an interview. "It's clear this provides a bridge to state supplies, to Colorado River supplies through 2026, and also allows these water agencies to begin to work together to update the guidelines ... post-2026."
Los Angeles Times: Breakthrough Colorado River deal reached, outlining big water cuts for three years The Biden administration announced that the federal Interior Department, which had laid out options for larger reductions, will analyze the proposal from the states. "This is an important step forward towards our shared goal of forging a sustainable path for the basin that millions of people call home," Bureau of Reclamation Commissioner Camille Calimlim Touton said.
Interior Secretary Deb Haaland called the agreement a testament to the Biden administration's commitment to working with states, tribes and communities in the West "to find consensus solutions in the face of climate change and sustained drought." The proposed cuts under the agreement amount to about half of the reductions federal officials had called for previously.
Colorado
Denver Post: Seven Colorado River Basin states reach a deal to save water, feds to consider  For the first time in years all seven states in the Colorado River Basin agree on a plan to save water from their drying region and it's enough of a consensus for federal officials to pause their own plan, which would also force cuts. U.S. Department of the Interior officials announced the seven-state deal Monday morning. As of last week only the lower-basin states of Arizona, California and Nevada had been on board but now the upper-basin states of Colorado, New Mexico, Utah and Wyoming have signed on too. Water experts celebrated the seven states for being able to reach a water-saving deal but noted that it won't be enough to solve the problem for the drying Colorado River Basin. Rather, they said, it might be enough to last a few years while the states, federal officials and Native American tribes work to find a more permanent solution
Nevada
8 News Now – Las Vegas: Landmark deal would aid drought-stricken Colorado River, Lake Mead as Nevada, California, Arizona offer cuts Nevada is on pace to use 210,000 acre-feet this year, which is well below the state's drought-adjusted allotment. If the state stays on that pace, usage will be down about 14,000 acre-feet compared to 2022. President Joe Biden called the agreement "historic" and released the following statement:
"Today's agreement between the Department of the Interior and seven Colorado River Basin states on a consensus-based approach marks an important step forward in our efforts to protect the stability of the Colorado River System in the face of climate change and historic drought conditions. Thanks to my Investing in America agenda, we are deploying record resources to support water conservation and improve the Colorado River's long-term sustainability. This approach will benefit the 40 million people who rely on the Colorado River Basin for agriculture, drinking water, and power, and is a critical step to building a sustainable, resilient future for states, Tribes and communities throughout the West.
Las Vegas Sun: States reach agreement on plan to conserve Colorado River water Officials from the seven Colorado River Basin states — Colorado, Utah, New Mexico, Wyoming, Nevada, Arizona and Texas — agreed to the submission of a proposal from the three Lower Basin states, the Department of Interior said. "I commend our partners in the seven Basin states who have demonstrated leadership and unity of purpose in developing this consensus-based approach to achieve the substantial water conservation necessary to sustain the Colorado River System through 2026," Tommy Beaudreau, the Department of Interior deputy secretary, said in a statement. The next step is for the department to?fully analyze the effects of the proposal under the National Environmental Policy Act, it said.
News 3 Las Vegas: Nevada, other states reach historic deal for Colorado River conservation Nevada and six other states have reached a historic agreement for water conservation at the Colorado River, the Biden administration announced Monday. Under the agreement, Nevada, Arizona and California have agreed to conserve at least 3 million-acre-feet (MAF) of system water through the end of 2026, the Interior Department says… "Nevada has long been a leader in regional water conservation efforts, and we're pleased to continue leading through this agreement with other Lower Basin States," Gov. Joe Lombardo said in a statement. "Through this partnership, we look forward to equitably advancing our mutual goal of conserving our shared water resources." The Interior Department says that with the new agreement, it will temporarily withdraw a draft Supplemental Environmental Impact Statement, or SEIS, that was submitted last month. That older SEIS would have forced water cuts through changes to the interim operating guidelines for the Glen Canyon and Hoover dams.
Texas
KSAT: Could Monday's landmark deal to conserve the Colorado River be a blueprint for future water deals in Texas? A deal was struck Monday by seven Colorado River basin states to conserve an unprecedented amount of water from the important water source. Instead of the federal government coming in to regulate the water, the states came to an agreement that requires California, Arizona, and Colorado to conserve 3 million acre-feet of water through 2026. That's no easy task. In return, the US government is supplying $1 billion in federal funding.
The Colorado River provides drinking water for 40 million people in the US, along with two states in Mexico. It's also a source of power and a relied-upon resource for numerous tribal nations. Water supply has dwindled after a decade-long drought. Lake Mead is stark example. Coming to an agreement is an incredible feat, considering the current value of water. The deal involves detangling century-long claims to a natural resource both domestically and in the case of Mexico, internationally. So, while this deal is for a water-starved region hundreds of miles away, it may lay out a blueprint for Texas and it's struggle with water conservation. To be clear, Texas is in much better shape than our counterparts to the west, but recent fights over Rio Grande River water does show some similarities.
Utah
Deseret News: California, Nevada and Arizona want a deal on proposed Colorado River cuts In April, the Biden administration, through the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation, released a draft environmental impact statement Tuesday that proposes to shave water deliveries to California, Nevada and Arizona by as much as one-fourth of what they receive now.
"Drought conditions in the Colorado River Basin have been two decades in the making. To meet this moment, we must continue to work together, through a commitment to protecting the river, leading with science and a shared understanding that unprecedented conditions require new solutions," said Bureau of Reclamation Commissioner Camille Calimlim Touton at the time. "The draft released today is the product of ongoing engagement with the basin states and water commissioners, the 30 basin tribes, water managers, farmers and irrigators, municipalities and other stakeholders.
KSL – Salt Lake City: Utah, 6 other Colorado River Basin states offer new alternative to conserve river's water Utah Gov. Spencer Cox says he believes a new plan that Utah and the six other Colorado River Basin states are recommending to help reduce Colorado River water consumption would be "a win for everybody" if it's approved by the federal government. Representatives of the seven Colorado Basin states — Utah, Arizona, California, Colorado, Nevada, New Mexico and Wyoming — announced Monday that they are proposing a new "consensus-based system conservation proposal" that Arizona, California and Nevada agreed on, which seeks to conserve at least 3 million acre-feet of the Colorado River system's water by 2026.
"It's very positive. It's something we've been working on for a long time, (and) Utah has been very engaged," Cox said following an event at Mountain Ridge High School in Herriman Monday. "It's a win for everybody. We know we have to do our part and all of the Colorado River Basin states have to do their part, as well. Just seeing everybody on board — I didn't know, a year ago, if we'd be able to get here — but I'm really happy that we're here."
Fox 13 – Salt Lake City: Utah, other states agree to Colorado River water conservation plan The 1,450-mile river provides water to 40 million people in seven U.S. states, parts of Mexico and more than two dozen Native American tribes. It produces hydropower and supplies water to farms that grow most of the nation's winter vegetables. In exchange for temporarily using less water, cities, irrigation districts and Native American tribes in the three states will receive federal funding, though officials did not say how much they expected to receive.
Though adoption of the plan isn't certain, U.S. Bureau of Reclamation Commissioner Camille Touton called it an "important step forward." She said the bureau will pull back its proposal from last month that could have resulted in sidestepping the existing water priority system to force cuts while it analyzes the three-state plan. The bureau's earlier proposal, if adopted, could have led to a messy legal battle.
  