
    NOMINATIONS SENT TO THE SENATE:
David S. Adams, of the District of Columbia, to be an Assistant Secretary of State (Legislative Affairs), vice Richard Rahul Verma, resigned.
Luis A. Aguilar, of Georgia, to be a Member of the Securities and Exchange Commission for a term expiring June 5, 2015. (Reappointment).
Daniel M. Gallagher, Jr., of Maryland, to be a Member of the Securities and Exchange Commission for a term expiring June 5, 2016, vice Kathleen L. Casey, term expiring.
Constance Smith Barker, of Alabama, to be a Member of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission for a term expiring July 1, 2016. (Reappointment).
John A. Heffern, of Missouri, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Armenia.
Harry R. Hoglander, of Massachusetts, to be a Member of the National Mediation Board for a term expiring July 1, 2014. (Reappointment).
Gregory Karawan, of Virginia, to be a Director of the Securities Investor Protection Corporation for a term expiring December 31, 2013, vice William Herbert Heyman, term expired.
Patricia M. Loui, of Hawaii, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Export-Import Bank of the United States for a term expiring January 20, 2015, vice Diane G. Farrell, term expired.
Susan Laila Ziadeh, of Washington, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the State of Qatar.
Charles R. Korsmo, of New York, to be a Member of the Board of Trustees of the Barry Goldwater Scholarship and Excellence in Education Foundation for a term expiring October 13, 2011, vice Michael Prescott Goldwater, term expired.
Charles R. Korsmo, of New York, to be a Member of the Board of Trustees of the Barry Goldwater Scholarship and Excellence in Education Foundation for a term expiring October 13, 2017. (Reappointment).
John H. Yopp, of Kentucky, to be a Member of the Board of Trustees of the Barry Goldwater Scholarship and Excellence in Education Foundation for a term expiring October 13, 2011, vice Raquel Egusquiza, term expired.
John H. Yopp, of Kentucky, to be a Member of the Board of Trustees of the Barry Goldwater Scholarship and Excellence in Education Foundation for a term expiring October 13, 2017. (Reappointment).
Marcos Edward Galindo, of Idaho, to be a Member of the Board of Trustees of the Barry Goldwater Scholarship and Excellence in Education Foundation for a term expiring April 17, 2014, vice Edward Alton Parrish, term expired.
Maria E. Rengifo-Ruess, of Virginia, to be a Member of the Board of Trustees of the Barry Goldwater Scholarship and Excellence in Education Foundation for a term expiring February 4, 2014, vice Julia L. Wu, term expired.
  