
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Romney Press Shop (857) 288-6390
Boston, MA - Today, Governor Mitt Romney announced that the Republican Chairs of Wayne, Oakland and Macomb counties, the three largest counties in Michigan, have endorsed his candidacy for President of the United States.
Wayne County Chairwoman Susan Chmielewski, Oakland County Chairman Dennis Cowan, and Macomb County Chairman Jim Carabelli have all thrown their support behind Governor Mitt Romney for President. In the 2000 GOP Presidential primary, Wayne, Oakland and Macomb counties produced nearly half of all Republican votes cast statewide.
"I am so pleased to have the support of Susan, Dennis and Jim," said Governor Romney. "Their leadership in these key counties will be critical to my campaign's efforts, and I am honored to have them on my team."
Endorsing Governor Romney, Jim Carabelli said, "I'm confident that Mitt Romney is the candidate who shares the values of Macomb County Republicans and I fully endorse his candidacy."
Praising Governor Romney's leadership, Susan Chmielewski said, "As Governor, Mitt Romney showed the kind of leadership that we need. By balancing the budget without raising taxes, creating jobs and standing up for traditional families, he showed what conservative principles can accomplish."
And Dennis Cowan said, "I am proud to join so many leaders from Mitt Romney's home county in supporting his candidacy. In business, the Olympics and as Governor, his leadership has been solid and I know he'll make an outstanding President."
Background Information On Republican Chairs Endorsing Governor Romney:
Jim Carabelli Is Currently Serving His Second Term As Chair Of The Macomb County GOP. Carabelli was a grassroots volunteer for both Presidents Reagan and Bush. He was honored with the Alexander Grosebeck Award for being a dedicated and hardworking Republican activist. Carabelli is currently serving his second term as a Shelby Township Trustee.
Susan Chmielewski Is The Current Chairwoman Of The Wayne County Republican Committee. Chmielewski has volunteered on most national, state and local elections since President Reagan's 1980 campaign and has been a precinct Delegate since 1982. She is a charter member, past Vice Chair and Secretary of the Taylor Republican Club as well as a founding member, past Vice Chair and Secretary of the Wayne County Republican Committee. She has served as a Republican State Committee member for 16 of the last 20 years.
Dennis Cowan Is The Current Chairman Of The Oakland County GOP. In December 2006, Cowan was unanimously reelected to a second term as chairman of the Oakland County Republican Party. He was elected to the Royal Oak City Commission in November 1987 and was re-elected to that office in 1991. From 1993 to 2001, Cowan served as Mayor of Royal Oak. He has been actively involved in Republican politics at the local, county, state and national levels for the last 20 years. In both 2000 and 2004, Cowan worked on the Oakland County Bush-Cheney election teams. He also worked on the campaigns of Senator Spencer Abraham, Oakland County Executive L. Brooks Patterson, Oakland County Prosecutor David Gorcyca and Attorney General Mike Cox. In 2002, he served on Attorney General Mike Cox's Transition Team.
  