
    [Released May 14, 1957. Dated April 29, 1957]
Your Majesty:
I received with great pleasure your letter of March 8 and am most grateful for the good wishes which you have sent to me and to my fellow citizens.
I have been deeply interested in the Vice President's enthusiastic report of the hospitable welcome he received in your great country and of the wisdom and statesmanship with which you spoke on matters affecting the common interests of our two countries and the great issues which dominate our times.
I am sure that the Vice President's talks with you and with the Minister of Foreign Affairs, whose ability and spirit of friendly cooperation he also greatly admired, have given new impetus to the further strengthening of the close ties which we have both worked to forge. For our part, we have always desired that our relationship be based on the only defensible basis, that of equality between two sovereign and independent states. It is for this reason that we have instructed our Ambassador at Rabat to inform Your Majesty's Government that the Government of the United States is prepared to participate in conversations on the subject of our military operations in Morocco. I am sure that we can look forward to continued collaboration in examining this and other questions of mutual interest to our two countries.
The importance of our relationship increases my desire to talk with you and to welcome you here in the United States, as I had hoped to do last November. I should therefore deem it a signal honor if you could find it possible to visit Washington in November of this year. I know that my fellow citizens share my desire to receive you in our midst.
I should appreciate Your Majesty's telling me whether you would find it possible to accept this invitation, after which the precise details of your visit could be worked out by the representatives of our two governments so that we can receive you here in a manner befitting the high esteem in which we hold you and the people of your country.
Sincerely,
DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER
  