
    "On day one, President Romney will announce deficit reductions, ending the Obama era of big government. He will stand up to China on trade and demand they play by the rules, and he will start repealing the job-killing regulations that keep our economy down. Compare that to what the first day of President Obama's second term would look like. On day one of the Romney presidency, we will begin restoring the greatness of America." – Andrea Saul, Romney Campaign Spokesperson
To View "Day One, Part Two" Please See: http://mi.tt/MppsXX
COMPARE THE FIRST DAY AGENDAS OF MITT ROMNEY AND BARACK OBAMA:
Day One Of The Romney Presidency: Taking Action To Strengthen America And Turn The Economy Around

Day One Under President Romney: Immediate Steps To Reduce The Deficit And End The Obama Era Of Big Government. The only recipe for fiscal health and a thriving private economy is a government that spends within its means. Mitt Romney will immediately move to cut spending and cap it at 20 percent of GDP. As spending comes under control, he will pursue further cuts that would allow caps to be set even lower so as to guarantee future fiscal stability. As a first step in this direction, Romney will move immediately to cut non-security discretionary spending by 5 percent.


Day One Under President Romney: Stand Up To China And Demand They Play By The Rules. Romney will seek to build a constructive relationship with China on the basis of mutual respect, while also making clear that the United States will no longer tolerate Chinese practices that unfairly benefit their economy at the expense of ours. As president, Romney will direct the Department of the Treasury to list China as a currency manipulator in its biannual report and direct the Department of Commerce to assess countervailing duties on Chinese imports if China does not quickly move to float its currency.


Day One Under President Romney: Start Eliminating Unnecessary Regulations That Hold Our Economy Back. Romney will also initiate the immediate review of all Obama-era regulations with the goal of eliminating any that unduly burden the economy and job creation. And he will impose a regulatory cap on all agencies at zero dollars, meaning that an agency issuing a new regulation must go through a budget-like process and identify offsetting cost reductions from the existing regulatory burden.

Day One Under President Obama: More Of The Same Old Liberal Policies That Are Taking Us In The Wrong Direction

Day One Under President Obama: More Deficits, More Government. "The Congressional Budget Office said Friday that President Barack Obama's tax and spending policies will yield $6.4 trillion in deficits over the next decade, more than double the shortfall in CBO's own fiscal baseline — even after taking credit for reduced war costs." ("CBO: Exploding Debt Under Obama," Politico, 3/16/12)


Day One Under President Obama: More Of The Same Inaction On China. "The Obama administration on Tuesday declined to label China a currency manipulator after seeing recent increases in the value of the renminbi compared with the dollar. The decision angered some manufacturing groups, which have accused China of artificially holding down the value of its currency, the renminbi, to gain trade advantages." ("U.S. Declines To Say China Manipulates Its Currency," The Associated Press, 12/27/11)


Day One Under President Obama: More Of The Same Job-Killing Regulations That Hurt The Economy. "Obama has delayed until after the election decisions on regulating ozone levels and rearview cameras for cars. Rules still need to be written to carry out much of Obama's signature first-term domestic policy initiatives, the health-care overhaul and the Dodd-Frank law regulating the financial industry. ... The ozone rule would cost $19 billion to $90 billion in 2020, according to the White House. The Obama administration puts the cost of rearview cameras at $2.7 billion. A Bloomberg Government study in July found that four provisions of the Dodd-Frank law may cost banks and other financial services companies $22 billion, with hundreds of rules yet to be written." ("Obama's Second Term To-Do List Positioned To Out-Regulate Bush," Bloomberg, 3/15/12)

  