
    Pool Reports by Francesca Chambers, McClatchy 



Sent:
Reports:




May 21, 202110:04

VP Pool Report #1: awaiting remarks
Good morning,
I'm your pooler for Vice President Harris for her AM event. We're currently awaiting remarks with the South Korean president in the VP's Ceremonial Office in EEOB. The spray should be beginning shortly.
Here's more on the meeting per the daily guidance.
DAILY GUIDANCE FOR THE VICE PRESIDENT FOR FRIDAY, MAY 21
At 10:00AM EDT, the Vice President will host H.E. Moon Jae-in, President of the Republic of Korea, for a bilateral meeting in the Vice President’s Ceremonial Office. This meeting will have a pool spray at the top.



May 21, 202110:24

VP pool report #2: remarks
VP Harris and President Moon entered the Ceremonial Office together at about 10:11 am EDT from a rear door.
Harris spoke first, delivering several minutes of remarks in English that were translated throughout into Korean. She is on the right, from pool's view.
"We are connected through our shared Democratic values," she told President Moon and also through friendship.
One of the largest Korean diasporas is in LA, Harris said, adding that it is where she lives.
She said they would be discussing the administration's vision for the region, "unconstrained by coercion" and associated challenges, as well as growing prosperity.
President Moon spoke next. More to come. At 10:18 both leaders left without taking questions. Pool is on the move now out of the building.
They spoke behind two lecterns several feet apart affixed with U.S. seals. Behind them were two American and two South Korean flags. One of each was behind each speaker.
Pool appeares to be a little more than 6 feet back from them. Members of the press were crammed into a pre set area, with some no longer wearing masks given recently updated White House rules for vaccinated individuals.
More to come in the next report.



May 21, 202110:35

VP Pool Report #3 participants + Moon/Harris photo op
After the pool left the Ceremonial Office, we were led out of EEOB to West Executive Avenue to pre-position for a brief photo op of VP Harris and President Moon walking along the balcony and talking.
It wrapped at 10:23 am and the pool dispersed.
Moon and Harris are now meeting in her office, where the long table was set with name plates for attendees, napkins that had the vice presidential seal on them, and cups of water covered with paper when pool was in the room. (I'll share a photo later.)
The VP's office shares the following list of meeting participants:
US-Vice President Kamala Harris-Phil Gordon, Deputy Assistant to the President and Deputy National Security Advisor to the Vice President-Michael Fuchs, Deputy Assistant to the President and Deputy Chief of Staff to the Vice President-Sung Kim, Acting Assistant Secretary of State for East Asian & Pacific Affairs-Nancy Leou, Special Advisor to the Vice President for East Asia and the Pacific
South Korean-President Moon Jae-in-Chung Eui-yong, Minister of Foreign Affairs-Suh Hoon, Director of National Security-Lee Hoseung, Chief of Staff to the President for Policy-Lee Soo Hyuck, Ambassador of the Republic of Korea to the United States



May 21, 202110:51

VP Pool Report #4: full Harris remarks
As always, please check the following remarks against the transcript and/or video.
Speaking first, Vice President Harris told President Moon:
"It is my honor to meet you, Mr. President. And I enjoyed very much our conversation before we came into this room. At a time when our world faces increasing threats to our health, security and climate, it is more important than ever that the United States and the Republic of Korea work closely together."
(translation into Korean)
"We are connected through our shared democratic and economic values, as well as through friendships, family, culture and history. In fact the largest Korean diaspora outside of the ---outside of Asia, I think outside of Korea, actually -- is where I live, in Los Angeles, California. And across our nation, Korean Americans are leaders in medicine, academics, entertainment, business and politics."
(translation)
"Globally, our alliance is critical to peace, security and prosperity in Northeast Asia, the Indo-Pacific and around the world."
(translation)
"President Joe Biden and I are confident that together we can promote a free, open and prosperous Indo-Pacfiic region, a region that is unconstrained by coercion and anchored in international rules and order."
(translation)
"Today we will discuss a broad range of issues, including our strong partnership, as well as the challenges that exist on the Korean peninsula."
(translation)
"And Mr. President, again, I am honored to meet with you. Thank you for your visit, and I look forward to our discussion."
Conclusion of Harris' remarks.



May 21, 202111:36

VP Pool Report #5: highlights from Moon's remarks/wrap-up
President Moon spoke second, in Korean, his remarks were translated into English. Here are highlights of what he said, per the translator. It was very hard to hear, but gratefully, video is now available on the White House's YouTube page. Apologies for the delay.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yjoCdZXmozo
President Moon thanked the VP for her "warm hospitality" and "beautiful words."
(Harris nodded in response)
"You have devoted your life to promoting democracy and enhancing human rights of minority groups, women, people of color and the underprivileged."
(Harris looked at him as those remarks were translated and nodded in the affirmative."
He said he recalled "many women across the United States" participating in a Wear Pearls social media campaign around the time of her inauguration on Jan. 20, "which was very impressive." (Harris laughed at this). "I believe it was their way to show affection and support to you, who have fought against invisibile discrimination at the forefront and broken glass ceiling."
Moon congratulated her "on how the Biden-Harris administration is building back better with the world's most successful vaccine deployment and a fast economic recovery and blazing a trail for inclusiveness and in unity by restoring the soul of America." (Harris staring straight ahead vocalized "hmm" and nodded in the affirmative.)
He said the "same soul of America is found in the history of the ROK-U.S. alliance," which was forged in blood 70 years ago "to fight for freedom and democracy together."
Moon said that "Korea, as a responsible ally that shares core values with the United States, will always stand by America on its journey of recovering from COVID-19 crisis and defending liberal, democratic international order" and supports it's "ambitious climate action" and will "coordinate with the U.S. with no daylight to achieve complete denuclearization and establish permanent peace on the Korean Peninsula."
In the face of changes of the post-COVID era, he said he hopes the two countries will work closely with each other to move forward together.
Harris thanked him, and moved in from her lectern to shake his hand. The two shook, and then turned to leave the room, with her leading him onto the balcony.
Here is a link to a couple of dropbox photos of the room set up. That's all from me today. Please let me know if you have additional questions.
https://www.dropbox.com/sh/8ch76qkriu54ywl/AAAb4ng67fX2fq4uUBQQ1-61a?dl=0




  