
    On Wednesday, May 07, 2008, the President signed into law:
H.R. 3196, which designates a facility of the United States Postal Service as the E. Arthur Gray Post Office Building,
H.R. 3468, which designates a facility of the United States Postal Service as the Dr. Clifford Bell Jones, Sr. Post Office,
H.R. 3532, which designates a facility of the United States Postal Service as the Private Johnathon Millican Lula Post Office,
H.R. 3720, which designates a facility of the United States Postal Service as the Army PFC Juan Alonso Covarrubias Post Office Building,
H.R. 3803, which designates a facility of the United States Postal Service as the John Henry Wooten, Sr. Post Office Building,
H.R. 3936, which designates a facility of the United States Postal Service as the Sgt. Jason Harkins Post Office Building,
H.R. 3988, which designates a facility of the United States Postal Service as the Master Sergeant Kenneth N. Mack Post Office Building,
H.R. 4166, which designates a facility of the United States Postal Service as the Steve W. Allee Carrier Annex,
H.R. 4203, which designates a facility of the United States Postal Service as the Specialist Jamaal RaShard Addison Post Office Building,
H.R. 4211, which designates a facility of the United States Postal Service as the Judge Richard B. Allsbrook Post Office,
H.R. 4240, which designates a facility of the United States Postal Service as the Felix Sparks Post Office Building,
H.R. 4454, which designates a facility of the United States Postal Service as the Iraq and Afghanistan Fallen Military Heroes of Louisville Memorial Post Office Building,
H.R. 5135, which designates a facility of the United States Postal Service as the Sergeant Jamie O. Maugans Post Office Building,
H.R. 5220, which designates a facility of the United States Postal Service as the Major Arthur Chin Post Office Building,
H.R. 5400, which designates a facility of the United States Postal Service as the Sgt. Michael M. Kashkoush Post Office Building,
H.R. 5472, which designates a facility of the United States Postal Service as the Julia M. Carson Post Office Building,
H.R. 5489, which designates a facility of the United States Postal Service as the Congresswoman Jo Ann S. Davis Post Office.
  