
    Pool Reports by Bricio Segovia, MVS Radio 



Sent:
Reports:




May 4, 202108:58

VP Pool Report #1: Checking in
Good morning!
I will be your print pooler for Vice President Kamala Harris' remarks to the 51st annual Washington Conference on the Americas. It is a sunny humid day at the White House (72°F), an anticipation to the classic dreaded DC summer. Your pooler has been Covid tested.
The Vice President's remarks are scheduled for 9:35AM EDT. She will deliver them virtually from the Eisenhower Executive Office Building's South Court Auditorium and will be carried live at http://whitehouse.gov/Live
The 51st annual Washington Conference on the Americas will feature remarks by senior U.S. government officials and leaders from across the Western Hemisphere. According to the organizer, "the event will offer an early opportunity for participants to hear directly from the new Biden administration on its hemispheric policy agenda and initiatives to collaborate with regional partners to move the Americas forward in 2021 and beyond."
The agenda as well as the full list of speakers are as follow:
9:15 am: Conference Welcome and Introduction

Eric Farnsworth, Vice President, Council of the Americas
Susan Segal, President and CEO, Americas Society/Council of the Americas
Julie Chung, Acting Assistant Secretary, Western Hemisphere Affairs, U.S. Department of State

9:35 am: A Conversation with the Vice President of the United States

Kamala D. Harris, Vice President of the United States
Andrés Gluski, Chairman, Council of the Americas (introduction)

10:00 am: Security, Competitiveness, and Immigration

Alejandro Mayorkas, U.S. Secretary of Homeland Security
Susan Segal, President and CEO, Americas Society/Council of the Americas (moderator)

10:30 am: A View from Congress

Gregory Meeks, Chairman, Foreign Affairs Committee, House of Representatives
Clay Neff, President, Chevron Middle East, Africa, South America, Exploration and Production Company (introduction)
Susan Segal, President & CEO, Americas Society/Council of the Americas (moderator)

11:00 am: A New Approach to Trade

Katherine Tai, U.S. Trade Representative
Elizabeth Reicherts, Interim Senior Vice President for External Affairs, Global Public Policy, General Motors (introduction)
Eric Farnsworth, Vice President, Council of the Americas (moderator)

11:30 am: Panel — Building the Regional Recovery Agenda

Roberto Alvarez, Minister of Foreign Affairs, Dominican Republic
Julie Gerberding, Executive Vice President and Chief Patient Officer, Merck & Co., Inc.
Reina Irene Mejía, Executive Vice President, Inter-American Development Bank
José Manuel Restrepo, Minister of Finance, Colombia
Shery Ahn, Anchor, Bloomberg Television (moderator)

12:20 pm: Opportunity and Growth — Latin America in the Global Economy

Gina Raimondo, U.S. Secretary of Commerce
Eric Farnsworth, Vice President, Council of the Americas (moderator)

12:50 pm: The United States and the Americas

Antony Blinken, U.S. Secretary of State
Andrés Gluski, CEO, AES Corporation and Chairman, Americas Society/Council of the Americas (introduction)

1:00 pm: The Regional Agenda to Combat Climate Change

John Kerry, Special Presidential Envoy for Climate, U.S. Department of State
Andrés Gluski, CEO, AES Corporation and Chairman, Americas Society/Council of the Americas (introduction)

1:15 pm: Conference close
After her remarks, the Vice President is scheduled to travel at 10:35AM EDT to Milwaukee, Wisconsin, where she will visit clean energy laboratories at the University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee and will also participate in a roundtable discussion on the investments in R&D in the American Jobs Plan and its impact on local communities.
Don't hesitate to reach out if I can be of any help.



May 4, 202109:17

VP Pool Report #2: Pool holding
Pool gathered outside the West Wing and was escorted at 9:01 AM EDT to the Eisenhower Executive Office Building's South Court Auditorium. Pool is now holding for the Vice President to come on the stage. Her remarks are scheduled for 9:35 AM EDT.
There are five American flags and one VP flag on stage, and three large screens that read "COA/51st Washington Conference on The Americas" and "Democratic, Prosperous, Secure: Restoring a Partnership for Sustainable Growth". There is an side table by the lectern, where a glass of water usually sits, but on this occasion it is empty. The teleprompter is right in front of the lectern, ready for the the Vice President. Your pooler took a couple of photos of the stage that can be downloaded here: >https://we.tl/t-WaeBRIduwb<
The Vice President's Office passed along the following excerpts from the remarks as prepared for delivery:
-I want to make clear that our Administration firmly believes in the potential of the region— and in the power of the people of [Latin America].
-Eight years ago, President Joe Biden addressed this conference.
Then Vice President, he led our nation's diplomatic efforts within the Northern Triangle and with Mexico.
Recently, he asked me to take the lead.
This is a priority for our nation— and a role that I take very seriously.
-[People] are suffering. They are in pain.
Many are experiencing unimaginable anguish.
We want to help. Our Administration wants to help.
We want to pick back up the kind of work President Joe Biden started when he was Vice President.
We want to help people find hope at home.
And so we are focused on addressing both the acute factors and the root causes of migration.
-Our Administration is implementing a comprehensive strategy with governments, international institutions, the private sector, foundations, and community organizations.
The idea here is that our work will be coordinated— and that every sector will have a role to play



May 4, 202109:33

VP Pool Report #3: Event starts
Event started at 9:15 AM EDT and, shortly after, two screens placed on each side of the South Court Auditorium started showing the livestream. Eric Farnsworth, the Vice President of the Council of the Americas, kicked off the event, followed by Susan Segal, President and CEO of the Americas Society/Council of the Americas, and Julie Chung, Acting Assistant Secretary of the Western Hemisphere Affairs of the U.S. Department of State.
A glass of water with a paper straw sits now on the side table by the lectern for the Vice President, who is yet to come on the stage. A staff member brought a hard copy of the remarks to the lectern.
A reminder that the Vice President's remarks can be watched live here: http://whitehouse.gov/Live



May 4, 202110:31

VP Pool Report #4: VP on stage (resending this)
I am resending my pool report #4. For some reason, It was sent blank. I apologize for this.
Vice President Kamala Harris came on the stage at 9:38 AM EDT wearing a nave blue suit and a white blouse and no face mask. She started by saying: "Last week, President Joe Biden and I reached the 100th day of our administration. And that time, we have let the world now. And the President has been very clear about this. America is back."
"We are revitalizing our relationships throughout the Western Hemisphere, from the southern most parts of South America to the northern most parts of Canada, and everywhere in between the Western Hemisphere is our home. And because it is our home. Because the people within it are neighbors. It is imperative that we promote democracy and good governance, security, and prosperity within the region."
"Our relationship with Latin America is bigger than trade, and our relationship is incredibly complex and at times has been incredibly complicated."
You can see an live automatic transcription of the VP's remarks here:
https://otter.ai/u/O1CaLCMpfkUbnrOy3K_Mg06gnvM
As always, please check against official transcript.
Your pooler took a couple of photos of the VP on stage and can be downloaded here:
https://we.tl/t-kFVaKQwE9M



May 4, 202110:25

VP Pool Report #5: End of VP remarks
Vice President Harris left the stage at 9:52 AM EDT. She took a black face mask from the lectern and put it on while walking away. The VP did not respond to any of the questions shouted by the pool on whether she had spoken with the President about the developing situation on the Southern border and on the ongoing diplomatic relations with Mexico regarding immigration.
The VP described Latin America as one of the "fastest growing trade partners" of the U.S. "Our relationship with Latin America is bigger than trade, and our relationship is incredibly complex and, at times, has been incredibly complicated. Today, I want to make clear that our administration firmly believes in the potential of the region and in the power of the people of the region", she said.
Harris pointed out that President Biden asked her to lead America's diplomatic efforts within the Northern Triangle and with Mexico. "This is a priority for our nation and a role that I take very seriously", she added.
On Latin America:"Latin Americans are shaping their own future. They are writing their own story. They hold the pen. As I see it, our role is to read those words, take them in and help however we can."
On the Northern Triangle:"The citizens of El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras are leaving their homes at alarming rates. But there's a fundamental truth behind that headline, people in the region do not want to leave their homes. (...) We are focused on addressing both the acute factors and the root causes of migration. And I believe this is an important distinction."
"In the Northern Triangle, we also know that corruption prevents us from creating the conditions on the ground. To best attract investment, and around the world, we know that corruption inhibits shared prosperity. In fact, the global cost of corruption is as much as 5% of the world's GDP."
On El Salvador:"Just this weekend, we learned that the Salvadoran parliament moved to undermine its nation's highest court. An independent judiciary is critical to a healthy democracy and a strong economy. On this front, on every front, we must respond to. (...) I will say it again, we must respond in El Salvador."
On the Caribbean:"No matter how much effort we put in on Caribbean violence, providing disaster relief, on tackling food insecurity, on any of it, we will not make significant progress if corruption in the region persists."
Vice President Harris said that last week had a bilateral meeting with Guatemala's president, Alejandro Giammattei, and they agreed "to strengthen cooperation to shut down human traffickers and smugglers". She added that in just a few days, she will meet virtually with the president of Mexico, Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador; and in a month from now, she will visit both countries. Harris also mentioned that she has spoken with world leaders from Canada, Finland, Ireland and Japan about partnering with the U.S. "to help the Northern Triangle".
The VP said that the U.S. has announced that an additional $310 million will be sent to the region, and that departments and agencies across the federal government are joining in this effort.
As always, please check these quotes against the official transcript.
This is all from me today, folks. Enjoy the rest of your Tuesday!




Pool Reports below by Jon Decker, Gray Television 



Sent:
Reports:




May 4, 202110:08

Vice President Harris Travel Pool Report #1 - JBA
Good morning! Jon Decker of Gray Television will serve as your print pooler today for the Vice President's day-trip to the Midwest. It is a sunny and warm spring day at JBA.
As per the VP's Press Office - Vice President Harris heads to Milwaukee, Wisconsin to promote President Biden's $2 trillion jobs and infrastructure plan
Harris is scheduled to visit clean-energy laboratories at the University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee. She will also host a roundtable discussion on the plan and its impact on local communities.
Here is the Vice President's schedule for today:
At 10:55AM EDT, the Vice President will travel to Milwaukee, Wisconsin. The departure from Joint Base Andrews and arrival at General Mitchell Airport will be covered by the travel pool.
At 1:00PM CDT, the Vice President will visit clean energy laboratories at the University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee. There will be travel pool coverage of this visit.
At 1:50PM CDT, the Vice President will participate in a roundtable discussion on the investments in R&D in the American Jobs Plan and its impact on local communities. There will be travel pool coverage of this roundtable.
At 4:50PM CDT, the Vice President will depart Wisconsin en route Washington, DC. The departure from General Mitchell Airport and arrival at Joint Base Andrews will be covered by the travel pool.
Please reach out with any questions. Thank you!



May 4, 202110:18

Vice President Harris Travel Pool Report #2- JBA
The VP's motorcade arrived at. 10:16am. We will be wheels up shortly to Milwaukee. The Vice President did not stop for questions.



May 4, 202111:18

Vice President Harris Travel Pool Report #3- Wheels Down in Wisconsin
AF2 was wheels up from JBA at 10:33am
After a nearly 1 hour, 45 minutes flight, we are wheels down at General Mitchell International Airport in Milwaukee, Wisconsin (also known as "The Good Land"). Wheels down at 11:17am local time.
Symone Sanders came back toward the end of our flight for a quick 5 minute gaggle.
Some highlights:
The news out of El Salvador will not impact the Administration's efforts to work with the El Salvador government on immigration.
The Administration looks to the President of El Salvador to respect the rule of law.
Next week there will be a number of meetings at the White House with bipartisan lawmakers trying to find common ground on the Biden and GOP Infrastructure proposals.
The Vice President has been making calls to Members toward this effort.
I will provide Greeters when I receive the list.
We will have a 20-minute drive to the University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee.
An update to those who have asked...the lab tour and the roundtable discussion will NOT be live-streamed.



May 4, 202111:23

VP Travel Pool Report #4 -- Milwaukee, WI (Tuesday, May 4)
ON BACKGROUND
Today, the Vice President's focus in Milwaukee, Wisconsin will be on the American Jobs Plan. Her events will draw the connection betweenscience in the lab, and the impact of science for communities. During the visit, the Vice President will highlight federal funding for Research and Development in the American Jobs Plan, the impact of R&D on local communities, and how the American Jobs Plan will help communities put R&D into action.
The Vice President will visit two clean energy research laboratories to highlight the R&D investments in the American Jobs Plan, followed by a roundtable to illuminate how communities are putting science and research into action. The first laboratory visit will focus on Wind tunnel research on wind turbines, and the second will be on sustainable energy research on microgrids and batteries. The research conducted in these laboratories was supported by federal funding, including from the Department of Energy and ARPA-E. At the roundtable, the Vice President will be joined by Senator Tammy Baldwin and Congresswoman Gwen Moore, along with researchers, a librarian, and school administrators.
Additional Background:The American Jobs Plan contains a robust investment in research and development, electric vehicles, education, and climate change. It includes the following:

$180 billion for R&D. This includes:
Upgrading research infrastructure ($40 billion): These funds will be allocated across federal R&D agencies to upgrade both labs and computing capabilities and networks.

50% is reserved for HBCUs and other MSIs, including the creation of a new national lab for climate at an HBCU.
Positioning the U.S. as a leader on climate research ($35 billion): This investment will expand funding for climate research generally, and also support specific demonstration projects in key areas like offshore wind, carbon capture, and electric vehicles.

Also includes the creation of ARPA-C


Creating a technology directorate at the National Science Foundation ($50 billion): This new directorate will help advance American innovation in fields such as semiconductors and biotechnology.
R&D that spurs innovation and job creation ($30 billion): This will include funding that helps foster job creation in rural areas.
R&D investment at HBCUs and other MSIs ($10 billion): This investment will help diversify the nation's innovators and close racial and ethnic gaps in STEM education.
Creating up to 200 centers of excellence ($15 billion): These institutions will serve as research incubators at HBCUs and other MSIs and offer graduate fellowships and other resources for populations historically underserved in STEM education.
$27 billion for a new Clean Energy and Sustainability Accelerator

Often called a Green Bank or Climate Bank, this accelerator would mobilize private investment into clean energy, retrofits of homes and buildings, and clean transportation.




$174 billion in electric vehicles

Includes incentives to manufacture electric vehicles, funding to build 500,000 charging stations, $25 billion to electrify transit buses, and $20 billion to electrify school buses.


$100 billion to modernize K-12 schools

Funds will go towards ensuring school infrastructure is safe, healthy, and resilient to climate impacts. These funds will also help support labs that can be used in STEM education.


$50 billion to make communities more resilient to climate change

Includes investments in microgrids and nature-based infrastructure






May 4, 202111:26

VP Travel Pool Report #5 -- Milwaukee, WI (Tuesday, May 4)
Greeters:
- Governor Tony Evers (D-WI)- Senator Tammy Baldwin (D-WI)- Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-WI-4)- Brigadier General Dave May, Deputy Adjutant General for Air, Wisconsin Air National Guard- Jeanette May, Spouse- Chief Master Sgt. Meredith Conn, Wisconsin Air National Guard Command Chief



May 4, 202112:07

VP Travel Pool Report #6 - Milwaukee, WI (Tuesday, May 4)
After a 25- minute ride, we have arrived at the University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee.
The lab tour participants:
Senator Tammy BaldwinCongresswoman Gwen MooreMayor Tom BarrettAndrew Graettinger, Assistant Director of Research (tour guide)Adel Nasiri (Professor, Electrical Engineering) & Ezana Mekonnen (Chief Technology Officer, Imagen Energy LLC



May 4, 202112:48

RVP Travel Pool Report #7 - Milwaukee, WI (Tuesday, May 4)
During the tour, the Vice President learned of a new research project out of the University in which the time to re-charge an Electric Vehicle is significantly reduced - to just 15 minutes. The protect is partnering with Volta to bring the innovation to California.



May 4, 202113:11

VP Travel Pool Report #8 - Milwaukee, WI (Tuesday, May 4)
The Vice President said the Administration has made it a priority to support and invest in innovation, research and development.
She said federal government investment as a percentage of GDP has declined over the past 20 years.
"We must be able to compete." "Innovation will make things easier for American families and will create jobs."
"The UAW is supporting what we are doing. I'm happy to be here to highlight the University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee."
Senator Baldwin thanked the Biden-Harris Administration for investing in people - not only in Wisconsin, but across the country.
Baldwin: "A clean energy economy will have many benefits for our country."
Congresswoman Moore thanked the Vice President for coming to Wisconsin and supporting the people of Milwaukee.
Roundtable participants:
Senator Tammy BaldwinCongresswoman Gwen MooreJoan Prince (moderator)Damaris AyalaJoan JohnsonSandra McLellanLillian PayneKevin ShaferWilkistar Otieno



May 4, 202113:14

VP Travel Pool Report #9 - Milwaukee, WI (Tuesday, May 4)
Some additional audience members at the roundtable discussion:
Rep. Mark PocanLt. Gov Mandela BarnesMayor Tom BarrettAG Josh Kaul



May 4, 202113:28

Travel Pool Report #10 - Milwaukee, WI (Tuesday, May 4)
The 10 year old student who spoke is Lenaya Mejia-Rodriguez



May 4, 202113:43

VP Travel Pool Report #11 - Milwaukee, WI (May 4)
The Vice President concluded the roundtable with another pitch for the Biden-Harris Infrastructure proposal.
"When did we last invest? We need to do more than just catch up."
"We must invest with a sense of urgency. We need to invest in our universities, in our children and in our people."
"It's not going to be easy. But we must have investment in innovation."
Event concluded at 2:35EST
We are holding while the Vice President conducts a few local interviews.



May 4, 202114:53

VP TRAVEL REPORT #12
We are now motorcading back to the airport We are running ahead of schedule



May 4, 202115:08

VP Travel Pool Report #13- Milwaukee, WI (May 4)
We have arrived at the General Mitchell International Airport at 4:07pm EST and should be wheels up back to JBA shortly.



May 4, 202118:01

VP Travel Pool Report #14 -Milwaukee, WI (May 4)
Prior to our departure, the Vice President made a short statement and then took a few questions under the wing of AF2.
The encounter lasted approximately 5 minutes.
Highlight from The Vice President's statement: "Our commitment is to invest more in R&D. We have fallen behind over the last 25 years. We need to be a leader."
Question: What is the Administration doing to make sure China is no longer the biggest emitter of greenhouse gases?
Answer: "This is literally a global issue. We - and all countries- need to make commitments and follow through with those commitments. I support the work of Secretary Kerry."
Question: The Administration and Senate Republicans are so far apart in your respective proposals for infrastructure spending. Will you meet them halfway? Will you compromise?
Answer: "We are very sincere about inviting bipartisan Members and groups to have conversations and work in a bipartisan way. Frankly, it should be non-partisan. We really have a true level of optimism."
Question: Are you dead set on that $2.3 trillion number?
Answer: "I'm not going to compromise through the press."
Question: What is the Administration's plan on broadband?
Answer: "We want to make sure that every American has affordable, high-speed Internet."
Question: What is your reaction to Florida Governor DeSantis doing away with all restrictions in the state associated with COVID-19?
Answer: "I strongly believe that all rules and guidelines need to be guided by public health experts."



May 4, 202118:03

VP Travel Pool Report #15 -Milwaukee, WI (May 4)
We are wheels down at JBA at 6:00pm. Uneventful flight. No visitors during our flight back home.



May 4, 202118:14

VP Travel Pool Report #16 - Milwaukee, WI (May 4)
We have arrived back to a wet and rainy JBA.
The Vice President deplaned from AF2 without an umbrella and immediately climbed into her SUV
Good night from JBA.
Have a great night!




  