
    WASHINGTON- Today, President Obama nominated Susan L. Carney for a seat on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit
"At every step of her career, Susan Carney has performed with excellence and unwavering integrity," said President Obama. "I am confident she will serve the people of Connecticut with distinction on the Circuit Court bench."
Susan L. Carney: Nominee for the United States Court of Appeals for the Second CircuitSusan L. Carney has served as Deputy General Counsel of Yale University since 2001. In this capacity, she is the second-ranking legal officer of a leading educational and research institution with an annual budget of more than $2 billion. Her work for Yale has addressed many areas covered by federal law, including scientific research, intellectual property, and health care. Her practice has also focused on Yale's international affiliations and transactions. Carney joined the General Counsel's Office in 1998, when she and her family moved to Connecticut. She served as Yale's Acting General Counsel from July to December 2008.
Ms. Carney began her career as a Law Clerk to Judge Levin H. Campbell on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the First Circuit. From 1979 to 1986, she was with the firm of Rogovin, Huge & Lenzner in Washington, D.C., first as an associate and then as a partner, working on litigation in federal courts and providing business counsel, primarily for large nonprofit organizations. In 1986, Ms. Carney joined two other Rogovin partners to form the Washington, D.C. office of the Los Angeles-based firm of Tuttle & Taylor. She was subsequently Of Counsel to the D.C. labor law firm of Bredhoff & Kaiser, where she engaged in an appellate practice. From 1996 to 1998, Ms. Carney served as Associate General Counsel of the Peace Corps.
Ms. Carney was born in Waltham, Massachusetts, and grew up attending public schools in Lexington and Weston, Massachusetts. She graduated with an A.B. (cum laude) from Harvard College in 1973 and a J.D. (magna cum laude) from Harvard Law School in 1977. She is a member of the Connecticut, District of Columbia, and Massachusetts bars and serves on the board of directors of the National Association of College & University Attorneys.
  