
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

This year we again set aside a week to mark our concern over osteoporosis. This bone-weakening disease is the most common cause of bone fractures in the elderly and is a major health problem that afflicts millions of Americans. Osteoporosis can occur in men, but women are the majority of its victims. In fact, it affects half of American women over age 45 and 90 percent of women over age 75.
A fall, blow, or lifting action that would not injure the average person can easily cause one or more bones to break in a person with severe osteoporosis. Any bones may be affected, although fractures of the spine, wrists, and hips are the most common. Osteoporosis is the underlying reason for 1.3 million bone fractures a year, and its incidence will increase as our population ages.
Fortunately, scientific knowledge about this disease has grown, and there is reason for hope. Research is revealing that prevention may be achieved through estrogen replacement therapy for older women and through adequate calcium intake and regular weight-bearing exercise for people of all ages. New approaches to diagnosis and treatment are also under active investigation. For this work to continue and for us to take advantage of the knowledge we have already gained, public awareness of osteoporosis and of the importance of further scientific research is essential.
The Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 250, has designated the week of May 8 through May 14, 1988, as "National Osteoporosis Prevention Week" and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this event.
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the week of May 8 through May 14, 1988, as National Osteoporosis Prevention Week. I urge the people of the United States and educational, philanthropic, scientific, medical, and health care organizations to observe this week with appropriate programs, ceremonies, and activities.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this tenth day of May, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eightyeight, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and twelfth.

RONALD REAGAN
  