
    Pool Reports by Emily Goodin, Daily Mail 



Sent:
Reports:




May 20, 202209:57 ECT

FLOTUS travel pool #1 - Basilica tour
Dr. Biden arrived at the La Compañía de Jesús Church at 8:35 am.
FLOTUS exited her car and held on the street for a few minutes waiting on the First Lady of Ecuador María de Lourdes Alcívar de Lasso to arrive.
The two women hugged upon greeting. They walked to the historic basilica for the tour. Tour guide Patricio Aguirre McDermott met them at the door. A piano played songs during the tour.
Mrs. Alcívar de Lasso pointed out a few things to Dr. Biden as they walked down the church aisle. It was hard to hear over the piano music but at one point Dr. Biden said "beautiful."
Then the piano player played Ava Maria and sang the song. The two First Ladies stood at the front alter area to listen to the song. "Thank you," Dr. Biden said afterward.
The two went up to the alter area where they each lit a candle. A priest then said a prayer in Spanish. Mrs. Alcívar de Lasso took communion.
The church, which was finished in 1765, is beautiful - covered in golds leaf on the walls and ceiling. Arch ways line the aisle. Statues of religious figures fill books around the walls and behind the alter. There is massive pipe organ in the upper balcony.
The tour lasted about 20 minutes.
Next Dr. Biden made an unscheduled stop at the nearby Immaculate Conception church. Mrs. Alcívar de Lasso offered to take Dr. Biden to this church and Dr. Biden agreed. It is one of many historical churches in the area and is across the street from the presidential palace. The church was built in 1575.
Pool held in the vans and didn't get to join Dr. Biden for the visit. Pool did come out to capture her departure from the second church. She was in the second church about 35 minutes.
The two First Ladies hugged and exchanged goodbyes at the chapel door. Dr. Biden thanked her counterpart.
During the church tour the two First Ladies spoke to nuns, who sang to them, they visited a chapel and visited a beatified Saint, according to East Wing spokesperson Michael LaRosa.
Pool observed East Wing staff carrying a red gift bag and a display of red roses out of second church and into the motorcade.
As Dr. Biden came out, pooler asked her who she lit a candle for in the first church, she paused, smiled and got into her car.
Dr. Biden is wearing a purple and white dress with a light purple jacket.
From the East Wing:
This morning, the First Lady and María de Lourdes Alcívar de Lasso, First Lady of Ecuador, will visit La Compañía de Jesús church in Quito's historic main square. They will be given a tour of the church by Patricio Aguirre McDermott, a tour guide.
La Compañía de Jesús Church (Church of the Society of Jesus) is a Jesuit church and an icon of Latin American baroque architecture. It is considered to be one of the most beautiful churches in South America. The construction of the church took over 160 years and includes elements of baroque, Moorish, and neoclassical architectural styles. The church and other beautifully preserved colonial buildings drove UNESCO to declare Quito a "World Heritage Site" in 1978, the first Latin American capital to gain that status.
Pool motorcaded to the church locations with FLOTUS this am after Covid testing and baggage sweep.
We're now headed to the airport for the flight to Panama.



May 20, 202210:44 ECT

FLOTUS travel pool report #2 - airport arrival and off to Panama
Dr. Biden arrived at the Mariscal Sucre Quito International Airport at 10:23 am.
First Lady of Ecuador María de Lourdes Alcívar de Lasso came to the airport to see Dr. Biden off. They hugged goodbye and Mrs. Alcívar de Lasso kissed Dr. Biden on the cheek.
Dr. Biden also took photos with staff.
She climbed the stairs and waved. "Bye," she called.
Mrs. Alcívar de Lasso waved from the bottom of the stairs.
Executive One Foxtrot is wheels up shortly for the 90 minute flight to Panama.



May 20, 202213:17 EST

FLOTUS travel pool #3 - arrival in Panama
Dr. Biden arrived at Panamá Pacífico International Airport at 12:06 pm local time (note we're still -1 ET).
Flight was bumpy at parts but had no visitors to press area.
Dr. Biden stayed on board for about 20 minutes upon arrival to get a briefing from the embassy. Press held on plane during her briefing.
She waved as she exited plane. She was greeted by embassy charge d'affairs and Panama's head of protocol.
It is 77 degrees and drizzling here.
Next Dr. Biden heads to meet her Panamanian counterpart for coffee and conversation at the Palacio De Las Garzas.
The First Lady of Panama Mrs. Yazmín Colón de Cortizo and the First Daughter of Panama Mrs. Carolina Esther are hosting Dr. Biden for coffee and conversation.
Pool will be present for arrival but the coffee is closed press.
From the East Wing, here is the rundown of today's events in Panama:
In Panama City, the First Lady will privately meet with Yazmin Colon de Cortizo, the First Lady of Panama. This will be their first time meeting one another.
After their meeting, the two first ladies will depart for the "Escuela Hogar de la Infancia" (Childhood Home School) to learn about the "Ver y Oir para Aprender" (See and Hear to Learn) program, which was spearheaded by Mrs. Cortizo. The program seeks to ensure that children have a better quality of life by providing eye and hearing exams – and eyeglasses and hearing aids, as needed – to students from rural, urban, and semi-urban schools nationwide, especially those in poor and marginalized communities. The program started in 2004, but at the time only focused on eyesight. In 2019, the current administration, under Mrs. Cortizo's leadership, expanded the program to include hearing. The Childhood Home School was founded in 1920 by Bethlemite sisters. This Catholic school serves children between the ages of 4 and 12, and is still run by Bethlemite sisters. The institution also serves as a shelter for 32 mostly indigenous boys whose parents come from the Embera indigenous community in the Darien province on Panama's border with Colombia. The students live at the school from Monday through Friday while their parents work in Panama City, and return to their parents on the weekend.
Lastly, Dr. Biden will head to the U.S. Embassy in Panama City, where she will meet and greet with embassy staff and their families, and show her appreciation for their service. The U.S. Embassy Panama community includes approximately 200 U.S. direct hire employees from more than 40 Departments and Agencies and 300 locally employed staff.
At 12:27 pm the motorcade is rolling.



May 20, 202213:19 EST

FLOTUS travel pool #4 - Presidential Palace
Motorcade arrived at presidential palace at 12:46 pm after a drive through downtown Panama City.
The First Lady of Panama Mrs. Yazmín Colón de Cortizo and the First Daughter of Panama Mrs. Carolina Esther waited outside the Palacio De Las Garzas for Dr. Biden.
The first lady of Panama gave Dr. Biden a hand up the marble stairs, which were still wet from the earlier rain.
The two chatted for a moment, de Cortizo introduced her daughter, and then the two First Ladies waved.
All are wearing face masks.
The First Ladies went inside for coffee. Press is holding in vans.



May 20, 202215:20 EST

FLOTUS travel pool report #5 - school visit
Motorcade left the presidential palace at 2:02 pm.
Pool did not see Dr. Biden leave the palace.
We arrived at the Childhood Home School at 2:07 pm. The school helps kids with audio and visual problems.
The two First Ladies walked in together. The first stop was an outdoor courtyard. There was a welcome Dr. Jill Biden sign on the wall.
There was a group of around 20 kids - waving American and Panamanian flags. The school serves kids aged 4 to 12. These were on the younger end.
"Hola," they said. "Hola," Dr. Biden replied.
She and Panama First Lady Yazmín Colón de Cortizo, both in face masks, stood to the side as one of the kids read a welcome message. "Welcome to my school," he said.
Music played and a girl in a white traditional costume with blue embroidery danced. She wore a gold and white headdress and gold jewelry with a big red flower.
At the end of the dance she walked to stand between the two First Ladies and have a photo. Mrs. de Cortizo had her hold open the folds of skirt wide across to show it off in the photo.
The two First Ladies then went to talk to the young kids holding the flags. They also posed for a photo with the kids. The kids waved their flags as cameras flashed.
They talked to a group of nuns. Pool couldn't make out audio on any of this.
The next stop was a classroom of six kids. The kids had face masks.
Mrs. de Cortizo explained what happened in the classroom. She spoke in English.
Four of the kids wore headphones and closed their eyes. They raised their hands - right or left - depending on which side they heard a sound in the headphones.
The instructor said the kids' ears were in good condition. He explained some of the hearing problems kids have. He spoke softly and was hard to make out.
Dr. Biden asked how often the kids were tested and was told "every year."
The next classroom had machines to test eye sight and those letter charts you see in an eye doctors office. There were four kids in there.
The instructor explained the three tests they use to test kids eye sight: the machine, the chart, and a test to pick out different colored rings.
Mrs. de Cortizo then pointed to letters and numbers on the eye chart for the kids to read out as Dr. Biden watched.
The third classroom was for both audio and visual. There are five kids present. One little boy kept nodding off.
"Jill come here," Mrs. de Cortizo said, bringing her to a little boy and introducing them. The boy, who looks 6 or 7, shook Dr. Biden's hand. They handed him a bag with eyeglasses in it. Mrs. de Cortizo helped him put them on. Dr. Biden held up a hand mirror for him to look at them.
They then moved to a girl about the same age. This time Dr. Biden put on the glasses and Mrs. de Cortizo held up the mirror. "Do you like them?" Dr. Biden asked. Mrs. de Cortizo repeated in Spanish. The girl nodded. Mrs. de Cortizo told people to clap. The school staff did so.
They then went to a little boy and Mrs. de Cortizo put his hearing aides in.
The staff then ran some slides that showed the kids how to care for their new glasses.
Pool got pulled at this point and taken to motorcade. We could see Dr. Biden get in her car from our van.
From the East Wing:
After their meeting, the two first ladies will depart for the "Escuela Hogar de la Infancia" (Childhood Home School) to learn about the "Ver y Oir para Aprender" (See and Hear to Learn) program, which was spearheaded by Mrs. Cortizo. The program seeks to ensure that children have a better quality of life by providing eye and hearing exams – and eyeglasses and hearing aids, as needed – to students from rural, urban, and semi-urban schools nationwide, especially those in poor and marginalized communities. The program started in 2004, but at the time only focused on eyesight. In 2019, the current administration, under Mrs. Cortizo's leadership, expanded the program to include hearing. The Childhood Home School was founded in 1920 by Bethlemite sisters. This Catholic school serves children between the ages of 4 and 12, and is still run by Bethlemite sisters. The institution also serves as a shelter for 32 mostly indigenous boys whose parents come from the Embera indigenous community in the Darien province on Panama's border with Colombia. The students live at the school from Monday through Friday while their parents work in Panama City, and return to their parents on the weekend.
Motorcade left school at 2:56 pm.
We're headed to the Embassy for Dr. Biden to meet with staff.



May 20, 202215:41 EST

FLOTUS travel pool #6 - embassy stop
Motorcade arrived at the U.S. Embassy in Panama City at 3:10 pm.
Pool did not see FLOTUS go inside and will hold in a room as this stop is closed press.



May 20, 202216:17 EST

FLOTUS travel pool report #7 - Embassy exit
Dr. Biden exited the embassy at 3:27 pm.
Pool caught a glimpse of her getting in motorcade as we left our hold.
We arrived at the RON at 4:04 pm.
That’s it for today. More tomorrow!




  