
    Pool Reports by Tyler Pager, The Washington Post 



Sent:
Reports:




May 5, 202222:09

FLOTUS pool report #1: Ashley Biden no longer traveling
Good evening from the White House. I will be serving as your print pooler for Dr. Biden's trip to Romania and Slovakia.
The pool is gathered at the White House ahead of FLOTUS' departure.
From Michael LaRosa, a spokesman for Dr. Biden:
Ashley Biden learned this evening that she was a close contact to someone who tested positive for COVID 19. She tested negative. However, at the recommendation of her physician and out of an abundance of caution she will not travel with her mother to Europe.
Reach out with any questions.



May 5, 202222:19

FLOTUS Pool Report #2: Background and travelers
Passing along from the WH:
Tomorrow, the First Lady will visit Mihail Kogalniceanu (MK) Air Base in Romania, where they will meet with U.S. and NATO military leadership. Romanian Air Base, referred to as "MK Base," is a Romanian-owned military base. Its main missions are defending aerial space under Romanian Air Force authority, increasing capabilities to provide expeditionary forces for the whole of Europe, and providing host nation support for Romanian, NATO, and U.S. Forces. They will also serve meals to and visit with some of the U.S. troops assigned to the base before departing for Bucharest. Joining Forces, the First Lady's White House initiative to support military families, will facilitate a special story-time with "United Through Reading," an organization that connects military families with a deployed service member through video recordings and virtual book readings.
The First Lady, Ambassador Mark Gitenstein, Libby Gitenstein, and Assistant Secretary Karen Donfried will deplane and greet with the following individuals:

Mrs. Simona Cojocaru, State Secretary and Chief of the Department for Defence Policy, Planning, and International Relations, Ministry of National Defense, Romania
Colonel Eduart Dodu, Romanian Air Force: Commander, Mihail Kogălniceanu Air Base
Colonel Vincent Minguet, French Army: Commanding Officer, 27th Mountain Battalion
Colonel Dominic 'Dutch' Holland, UK Royal Air Force: Commander, 140 Expeditionary Air Wing, NATO Enhanced Air Policing Mission
Warrant Officer Trevor Shippey, UK Royal Air Force: Deployed Operating Base Warrant Officer, 140 Expeditionary Air Wing
Colonel Kendrick Traylor, U.S. Army: Brigade Commander, Area Support Group–Black Sea
Master Sergeant William Hancock, U.S. Army: Operations Noncommissioned Officer-in-Charge, Area Support Group– Black Sea
Major Shawn Bradberry, U.S. Army: Deputy Host Nation Advisor - Romania, U.S. Army Europe-Air Force, G-5

At MK Base Dining Facility, they will greet with the following individuals:

Colonel Sharon Lyght, U.S. Army: Commander, 16th Military Police Brigade
Command Sergeant Major Christopher Allison, U.S. Army: Command Sergeant Major, 16th Military Police Brigade
Sergeant First Class Dion Gutierrez, U.S. Army: Culinary Specialist, 746th Combat Sustainment Support Battalion, U.S. Army National Guard

 Prior to departure to Bucharest, on the tarmac, greets with local police and fire, and seven members of the Delaware Army National Guard.
Traveling with the First Lady
Ambassador Mark Gitenstein, Ambassador to the European UnionMrs. Libby Gitenstein, Wife to Ambassador Mark GitensteinAssistant Secretary Karen Donfried, Bureau of European and Eurasian Affairs, U.S. Department of StateAnthony Bernal Senior AdviserMala Adiga Policy PolicyDirectorMichael LaRosa Press SecretaryJordan Montoya Director of AdvanceKelsey Donohue Deputy Communications DirectorMarty Browne Associate Director for AdvanceCamilo Haller Associate Director of SchedulingJohn Scanlon Associate Director of PolicyErin Scott PhotographerMelanie Duran VideographerCurtis Ried Senior Dir. for Multilateral Affairs, NSCDaniel Dieckhaus Director for Humanitarian Affairs, NSCSharon Weber Deputy Director of Protocol, State Dep.



May 5, 202222:45

FLOTUS Pool Report #3: JBA Departure
FLOTUS exited her vehicle at 10:30 p.m and walked over to the press and made brief comments.
"Good evening. I just wanted to say thank you to you all for coming on the trip. I really appreciate it. It's so important to the President and to me that the Ukrainian people know that we stand with them. So I hope you have a good flight. Thank you."
We are headed to Shannon Airport and expected to arrive at 9:50 am local time.
Executive One Foxtrot will be wheels up shortly.




  