
    "America built the internet and shared it with the world; now we will do our part to secure and preserve cyberspace for future generations. -President Donald J. Trump
STRENGTHENING OUR CYBER WORKFORCE: President Donald J. Trump is supporting a strong cybersecurity workforce to defend our country and promote quality job opportunities.

President Trump has signed an Executive Order directing the creation of programs to grow and strengthen our cybersecurity workforce to meet the challenges of the 21st century.
The Executive Order will promote cybersecurity work within the Government, including through a new President's Cup Cybersecurity Competition.
The Administration will develop a rotational program where Federal employees can expand their cybersecurity expertise through temporary reassignments to other agencies.
The Executive Order encourages widespread adoption of the cybersecurity workforce framework created by the National Initiative for Cybersecurity Education (NICE).

The NICE Framework is a helpful reference for identifying, recruiting, developing, and retaining cybersecurity talent.


The Executive Order aims to close cybersecurity skills gaps for the cyber-physical systems that our defense and critical infrastructure rely on.
Federal agencies will identify cybersecurity aptitude assessments that they can use to reskill employees with potential in the cybersecurity field.
The Administration will establish the Presidential Cybersecurity Education Awards, recognizing excellent elementary and secondary school educators teaching cybersecurity-related content.

GROWING THE WORKFORCE: Training and hiring cybersecurity workers is vital to protecting our Nation's defense systems and critical infrastructure.

Government and private-sector action is urgently needed to grow and sustain our cybersecurity workforce, which is a strategic asset to our country.

Our cybersecurity workforce is made up of dedicated individuals in the public and private sectors who operate the critical systems needed to run and defend our country.


More than 300,000 cybersecurity job vacancies exist in America and it is critical for our economy and security that they be filled.

The cybersecurity field offers well-paying jobs that provide incredible opportunities for Americans.


An inadequate cybersecurity workforce jeopardizes our critical infrastructure, national defense, and modern economy.

PROTECTING OUR SECURITY: President Trump has committed his Administration to protecting and strengthening our Nation's cybersecurity.

The President released a National Security Strategy that highlighted cybersecurity as a priority.
Last year, President Trump unveiled our Nation's first cyber strategy in 15 years, which included the priority to develop a superior cybersecurity workforce.
Multiple agencies have also released strategies emphasizing the importance of cybersecurity.
In 2017, President Trump released an Executive Order to strengthen the cybersecurity of Federal networks and our critical infrastructure.

  