
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
April 27
The President announced his intention to nominate Rudolf Vilem Perina to be Ambassador to Moldova.
The President announced his intention to nominate Michael C. Lemmon to be Ambassador to Armenia.
The President announced his intention to appoint Jesse Brown as Vice-Chair, and Vinh Cam, Marc Cisneros, David Moore, Alan Steinman, and Elmo Zumwalt as members of the Special Oversight Board for Department of Defense Investigations of Gulf War Chemical and Biological Incidents.
April 28
In the evening, the President traveled to New York City, and later, he returned to Washington, DC.
The President announced his intention to nominate Jeffrey Davidow to be Ambassador to Mexico.
The President announced his intention to nominate John O'Leary to be Ambassador to Chile.
The President announced his intention to nominate Mari Carmen Aponte to be Ambassador to the Dominican Republic.
The President announced his intention to nominate E. William Crotty to be Ambassador to Barbados, Antigua and Barbuda, Dominica, Grenada, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, and St. Vincent and the Grenadines.
The President announced his intention to nominate Arthur Schechter to be Ambassador to the Bahamas.
April 29
In the morning, the President met with President Isaias Afworki of Eritrea in the Oval Office.
In an afternoon ceremony in the Roosevelt Room, the President presented the Presidential Citizens Medal to Albert Abramson.
The President declared a major disaster in Kentucky and ordered Federal aid to supplement Commonwealth and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms, tornadoes, flooding on April 16.
May 1
In the morning, the President traveled to San Jose, CA, where he toured Therma, Inc., and participated in a roundtable discussion with employees.
In the evening, the President traveled to Portola Valley, CA, where he attended a Democratic National Committee dinner.
  