
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

For more than 30 years, our Nation has proudly observed May 1 as Law Day, U.S.A. On this day we pause to give thanks for America's guarantee of liberty, opportunity, and justice for all. We also rededicate ourselves to upholding that great promise. In so doing, we honor all those who have labored -- and often sacrificed -- to win and protect our freedom and to preserve individual rights and the rule of law throughout the United States.
Our Nation's Founding Fathers knew that the rule of law and, indeed, the strength of our Nation itself are advanced through the protection of individual rights. The most fundamental of these rights are eloquently affirmed in the Declaration of Independence: "We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable Rights, that among these are Life, Liberty and the pursuit of Happiness." In 1789, members of the first Congress demonstrated their determination to defend these rights when they passed and submitted to the States for ratification the first ten amendments to the Constitution. These amendments are known as the Bill of Rights. No more noble, concise, and just statement of the proper relationship of citizens to their government has ever before or since been enacted into law.
This is a time of great change in our Nation and our world. As we begin the new decade, fledgling democracies in other countries mirror our ideals of liberty and justice for all. The blessings of liberty have never been more apparent to the world, and, perhaps, never more appreciated by each and every one of us.
This year's Law Day theme, "Generations of Justice," underscores the principles and ideals for which so many Americans fought and died. It illuminates the tenacious commitment of our people to preserve a free, open, and just society in a rapidly changing and complex world. The "Generations of Justice" theme also underscores our obligation to guarantee justice and equal protection under the law for all Americans, regardless of age, sex, race, or creed.
As we reflect on the theme of "Generations of Justice," we are especially mindful of our obligation to provide legal protection to the most vulnerable among us: Americans at both ends of the spectrum of human life. The preborn child at risk of becoming addicted to drugs or infected with HIV as a result of his mother's substance abuse; the severely disabled or premature infant who requires specialized treatment; the senior citizen threatened by exploitation or experiencing difficulties in obtaining housing and medical care -- each of these Americans is an heir to the rights enumerated in our Nation's founding documents. Each of these Americans needs and deserves protection under law, as well as in practice.
As the guardians of our Nation's most cherished liberties, the members of the legal profession have a special obligation to reach out to those in need. Whether mentoring a young man or woman searching for direction, befriending a lonely senior citizen, or caring for the homeless and the hungry, members of the legal profession have always been there to help.
If we are to preserve this Nation's freedom, and the peace and security we so enjoy, we must faithfully uphold the principles enshrined in our Constitution and Declaration of Independence. Thus, on this Law Day, let us renew our determination to defend the God-given rights of all Americans. Let us strive to ensure that "Generations of Justice" always remains a shining hallmark of our Nation's judicial system.
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush, President of the United States of America, in accordance with Public Law 87-20 of April 7, 1961, do hereby proclaim Tuesday, May 1, 1990, as Law Day, U.S.A. I urge all Americans to observe this day by reflecting upon the timeless ideals enshrined in our Declaration of Independence and Constitution and the importance of the rule of law in protecting the rights of every individual. I call upon the legal profession, schools, libraries, government agencies, the media, clergy, and businesses, as well as civic and voluntary service organizations, to promote the observance of this day through appropriate programs, ceremonies, and activities. I also call upon all public officials to display the flag of the United States on all government buildings on this day.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this first day of May, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fourteenth.

GEORGE BUSH
  