
    Dear Madam Speaker: (Dear Mr. President:) 
Pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) (IEEPA), the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code, I hereby report that I have issued an Executive Order declaring a national emergency to deal with the threat posed by the unrestricted acquisition or use in the United States of bulk-power system electric equipment designed, developed, manufactured, or supplied by persons owned by, controlled by, or subject to the jurisdiction or direction of foreign adversaries.
Foreign adversaries are increasingly creating and exploiting vulnerabilities in the United States bulk-power system. The bulk-power system provides the electricity that supports our national defense, our vital emergency services, our critical infrastructure, our economy, and our way of life. The bulk-power system is a target of those seeking to commit malicious acts against the United States and its people, including malicious cyber activities. Although maintaining an open investment climate in bulk-power system electric equipment, and in the United States economy more generally, is important for the overall growth and prosperity of the United States, such openness must be balanced with the need to protect our Nation against a critical national security threat. To deal with this threat, additional steps are required to protect the security, integrity, and reliability of bulk-power system electric equipment used in the United States.
The Executive Order prohibits certain future transactions involving bulk-power system electric equipment where the Secretary of Energy (Secretary), in coordination with the Director of the Office of Management and Budget and in consultation with the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of Homeland Security, the Director of National Intelligence, and, as appropriate, the heads of other executive departments and agencies (agencies), has determined that:
(i) the transaction involves bulk-power system electric equipment designed, developed, manufactured, or supplied, by persons owned by, controlled by, or subject to the jurisdiction or direction of a foreign adversary; and
(ii) the transaction:
(A) poses an undue risk of sabotage to or subversion of the design, integrity, manufacturing, production, distribution, installation, operation, or maintenance of the bulk-power system in the United States;
(B) poses an undue risk of catastrophic effects on the security or resiliency of United States critical infrastructure or the economy of the United States; or
(C) otherwise poses an unacceptable risk to the national security of the United States or the security and safety of United States persons.
The Executive Order also establishes a Task Force on Federal Energy Infrastructure Procurement Policies Related to National Security.
I have delegated to the Secretary the authority to take such actions, including directing the timing and manner of the cessation of pending and future transactions prohibited pursuant to the Executive Order, adopting appropriate rules and regulations, and employing all other powers granted to the President by IEEPA, as may be necessary to implement the Executive Order. The heads of all agencies, including the Board of Directors of the Tennessee Valley Authority, are directed to take all appropriate measures within their authority to implement the provisions of the Executive Order.
I am enclosing a copy of the Executive Order I have issued.
Sincerely,
DONALD J. TRUMP
  