
    Yesterday, Jennifer Klein, Director of the White House Gender Policy Council, and Rohini Kosoglu, Domestic Policy Advisor to the Vice President, hosted a meeting with reproductive justice leaders from across the country.
Reproductive justice leaders shared their concerns about access to reproductive health care on the ground, describing the range of challenges that patients currently face as states pass extreme laws restricting access to critical health care. Participants also highlighted the disproportionate impact that abortion restrictions have on underserved communities, including communities of color and low-income women.
On Thursday, the Vice President met with doctors and nurses to discuss the impact that overturning Roe v. Wade would have on women's health care. Later the day, White House Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre issued a statement on the Oklahoma legislature's latest bill, which is one of the most extreme efforts yet to undo fundamental reproductive rights.
Reproductive justice meeting participants included:

Marcela Howell, In Our Own Voice: National Black Women's Reproductive Justice Agenda
Guadalupe Rodriguez, National Latina Institute for Reproductive Justice
Sung Yeon Choimorrow, National Asian Pacific Women's Forum (NAPAWF)
Marsha Jones, The Afiya Center
Neha Gill, Apna Ghar, Inc.
Sevonna Brown, Black Women's Blueprint
Tammy Boyd, Black Women's Health Imperative
Laura Jimenez, California Latinas for Reproductive Justice
Dr. Nusrat Ameen, Daya Inc.
Nadiah Mohajir, HEART
Camille Kidd, In Our Own Voice: National Black Women's Reproductive Justice Agenda
Yvonne Hsu, National Asian Pacific Women's Forum (NAPAWF)
Megan Simmons, National Birth Equity Collaborative
Candace Gibson, National Latina Institute for Reproductive Justice
Kelly Davis, New Voices for Reproductive Justice
Dazon Dixon Diallo, SisterLove
Dr. Krystal Redman, SPARK Reproductive Justice Now!, Inc.
Corrine Sanchez, Tewa Women United
Kimberly Inez McGuire, URGE: Unite for Reproductive & Gender Equity
Deon Haywood, Women with a Vision

  