
    Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Members of the Cabinet, friends of George Shultz:
It is a great pleasure and a real privilege for me to participate on this occasion honoring George and, of course, Obie as well.
I'm here because I've had the benefit of the friendship of George Shultz. I'm here because I think George Shultz has made a tremendous contribution, over a long period of time, to good government, and obviously, he represents the finest kind of citizenship. Over a period of about 10 years, George has served more than one President in the fields of education, in the fields of labor-management relations, in the area of economics.
I was interested in reading George's biography. It tells the story, at the age of 12, George published a homemade newspaper. And after he got it put together, he tried to sell it to a neighbor. The neighbor asked him what the price was. According to the story, George said, "Five cents." And the neighbor asked him, "Well, if I can buy the Saturday Evening Post for 5 cents, why should I buy your newspaper?" Well, I have researched it very, very extensively and have found that's the only time in George's career he didn't have a good answer. [Laughter]
But you know George. During this period of time that I have known him, he served as Secretary of Labor, he served as Director of the Office of Management and Budget, he served as the Secretary of the Treasury. And then I found that at one time, he served as Adviser to the Cabinet on agricultural matters. Adviser to the Cabinet on agricultural matters--doesn't that bring back to your mind the memorable statement he made a year or two ago, when he told Laird to keep his cotton-picking hands off the economy? [Laughter]
Well, I am just honored to be here as a friend of George's, as an admirer. I think he represents the finest kind of service to the Government, the finest kind of dedication to the country. And, Bill, in giving to George Shultz the Alexander Hamilton Award, I think you reflect the view that all of us have in George Shultz as the epitome of what we would all like a person in government service to have.
Most of all, George, I am delighted to be here as a friend. And may I say this in a personal way: Any person who likes to play golf and any person who smokes a pipe and any person who played football just can't be all bad. [Laughter]
  