
    [ Released May 23, 1965. Dated May 21, 1965 ]
Memorandum to Heads of Departments and Agencies:
It is my great pleasure to announce that the following officials of the career service have been selected as the 1965 recipients of the President's Award for Distinguished Federal Civilian Service:
Howard C. Grieves, Assistant Director of the Bureau of the Census, Department of Commerce.
Homer E. Newell, Associate Administrator for Space Science and Applications, National Aeronautics and Space Administration.
Frank B. Rowlett, Special Assistant to the Director, National Security Agency, Department of Defense.
Clyde A. Tolson, Associate Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, Department of Justice.
Philip H. Trezise, Deputy Assistant Secretary for Economic Affairs, Department of State.
Each of these men has demonstrated in his field that extra measure of professional excellence needed to carry out effectively our many action programs in the people's service. The work of each has been distinguished by courage, vision and ingenuity--qualities that make for greatness in men who serve the people. Collectively, they have made immense contributions to the Nation's well being and advancement.
I know you share my great pride and satisfaction in the accomplishments of these public servants which underscore for our fellow citizens how much excellence there is in the career ranks of the Federal service.
Government programs are advanced as much through people and their efforts as through the language of laws and Federal regulations. We must make certain that we express our appreciation to the outstanding individuals in positions at all levels of Government who supply the special creative ability, the extra productive effort, or the unusually superlative skill that is vitally needed to carry our Federal programs to the topmost heights of excellence.
I call on you to join in honoring these individuals who receive the highest Federal Award and to extend other appropriate recognition within your agency to employees, in positions both high and low, whose achievements merit special distinction.
LYNDON B. JOHNSON
  