
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate two individuals, appoint eighteen individuals and designate two individuals to serve in his Administration.
The President intends to appoint Thomas D. Cairns, of New Jersey, to be Chief Human Capital Officer at the Department of Homeland Security. Dr. Cairns currently serves as a Principal at the Cairns Blaner Group, LLC. Prior to this, he served as Senior Vice President for Human Resources at NBC Universal. Earlier in his career, he served as the Vice President of Employee Relations at NBC. Dr. Cairns received his bachelor's degree from Rider University. He received his master's degree and DBA from Nova Southeastern University.
The President intends to nominate Donetta Davidson, of Colorado, to be a Member of the Election Assistance Commission for the remainder of a four-year term expiring 12/12/11. Ms. Davidson currently serves as a Member of the Election Assistance Commission. She previously served as Chair of the Election Assistance Commission. Earlier in her career, she served as the Secretary of State of Colorado.
The President intends to nominate Rosemary E. Rodriguez, of Colorado, to be a Member of the Election Assistance Commission for the remainder of a four-year term expiring 12/12/11. Ms. Rodriguez currently serves as a Member of the Election Assistant Commission. Prior to this, she served as Councilwoman on the Denver City Council for the Third District. Earlier in her career, she served as Acting Director of the Denver Election Commission.
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the President's Committee for People with Intellectual Disabilities: James M. Boles, of New York, for a two-year term beginning 05/12/08;
Stephanie Preshong Brown, of Florida, for a two-year term beginning 05/12/08;
Olegario D. Cantos, VII, of California, for a two-year term beginning 05/12/08;
Eric Lee Cole, of Maryland, for a two-year term beginning 05/12/08;
Berthy De La Rosa-Aponte, of Florida, for a two-year term beginning 05/12/08;
William J. Edwards, of California, for a two-year term beginning 05/12/08;
MaryMargaret Pucci, of Illinois, for a two-year term beginning 05/12/08;
Linda Hampton Starnes, of Florida, for a two-year term beginning 05/12/08;
Dallas Rob Sweezy, of Virginia, for a two-year term beginning 05/12/08;
William E. Tienken, of Illinois, for a two-year term beginning 05/12/08;
Eric Todd Treat, of Arkansas, for the remainder of a two-year term expiring 05/11/09;
Charles Weis, of Indiana, for a two-year term beginning 05/12/08;
Mary Ellen Zeppuhar, of West Virginia, for a two-year term beginning 05/12/08.
The President intends to designate Thomas Richard Barker, of Massachusetts, to be Acting General Counsel of the Department of Health and Human Services.
The President intends to designate Steven C. Rhatigan, of Texas, to be Chair of the President's Committee for People with Intellectual Disabilities.
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the Commission of Fine Arts:
Diana Balmori, of New York, for a term of four years;
Elizabeth Plater-Zyberk, of Florida, for a term of four years;
Earl A. Powell, III, of Virginia, for a term of four years;
Witold Rybczynski, of Pennsylvania, for a term of four years.
  