
    WASHINGTON – Today, President Barack Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key Administration posts:
•      Tony D'Agostino, Member, Board of Directors of the Securities Investor Protection Corporation
•      Janice Eberly, Assistant Secretary for Economic Policy, Department of the Treasury
President Obama said, "I am confident that these outstanding individuals will greatly serve the American people in their new roles and I look forward to working with them in the months and years to come."
President Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key Administration posts:
Tony D'Agostino, Nominee for Member, Board of Directors of the Securities Investor Protection Corporation
Tony D'Agostino is a Managing Director and COO of the Global Quantitative Analytics group at UBS Investment Bank. From 2000 to 2009, Mr. D'Agostino worked at Wachovia Securities where he served as the COO of Equity Capital Markets, Co-Head of Program and Algorithmic Trading and as a trader and analyst for the firm's U.S. Equity proprietary trading business. Prior to 2000, Mr. D'Agostino served in the US Navy on active duty for 24 years, both as an officer and an enlisted sailor. While in the Navy, Mr. D'Agostino served in numerous roles from rescue swimmer and anti-submarine warfare sonar operator onboard the H-3 Sea King helicopter to Officer of the Deck and ships geophysicist onboard the aircraft carrier USS John F. Kennedy (CV-67). Mr. D'Agostino holds a B.G.S from the University of Kansas and an M.S. from the Naval Postgraduate School.
Janice Eberly, Nominee for Assistant Secretary for Economic Policy, Department of the Treasury
Janice Eberly is the John L. and Helen Kellogg Distinguished Professor of Finance at the Kellogg School of Management at Northwestern University, where she has been a member of the faculty since 1997. Professor Eberly previously served on the staff of the White House Council of Economic Advisors, and is on the advisory panels of the Bureau of Economic Analysis and the Congressional Budget Office. Professor Eberly was a Sloan Foundation Research Fellow in Economics and is a Research Associate of the National Bureau of Economic Research. Her research has been funded by the National Science Foundation, and she has held editorial positions at major academic journals, including the American Economic Review and the Journal of Monetary Economics. Professor Eberly publishes widely on macroeconomics and finance, focusing on capital investment and household decisions. The American Economics Association elected her to its Executive Committee in 2007. Prior to coming to Northwestern, Professor Eberly was a faculty member at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania. She received her B.S. from the University of California, Davis, in 1986, and her Ph.D. in Economics from M.I.T. in 1991.
  