
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate three individuals to serve in his administration.
The President intends to nominate R. Barrie Walkley to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Guinea. A career member of the Senior Foreign Service, he has held the post of Deputy Chief of Mission in Kinshasa, Congo, since 1998. He has served as the Public Affairs Officer in Islamabad, Pakistan, and was based in Washington, D.C. as a Policy Officer in the Near Eastern Affairs Bureau of the United States Information Agency. From 1992 to 1994, he was the Public Affairs Advisor for the Department of State's Bureau of African Affairs. He has held several other posts abroad including U.N. spokesperson in Mogadishu, Somalia. Walkley is a graduate of the University of California at Santa Barbara, received a Master's degree in African Studies from UCLA and a Master's degree and Ph.D. in English from the University of Southern California.
The President intends to nominate Peter W. Rodman to be Assistant Secretary of Defense for International Security Affairs. He is presently the Director of National Security Programs at the Nixon Center. Additionally, he has been a scholar at both the Center for Strategic and International Studies and the Johns Hopkins Foreign Policy Institute. From 1987 to 1990 he served Presidents Reagan and Bush as Special Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs and NSC Counselor and was Deputy Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs under President Reagan from 1986 to 1987. Rodman served at the Department of State from 1984 to 1986 as Director of the State Department Policy Planning Staff. He is a graduate of Harvard University, received a Master's from Oxford University and a J.D. from Harvard Law School.
The President intends to nominate Lynn Catherine Leibovitz to be an Associate Judge of the Superior Court of the District of Columbia. She is currently Assistant U.S. Attorney for the District of Columbia where she is the Deputy Chief of the Homicide Section. Additionally, she serves as an Adjunct Professor of Trial Practice at the Georgetown University Law Center. From 1986 to 1990, Leibovitz was a Staff Attorney with the Enforcement Division of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission. She is a graduate of Brown University and received her J.D. from Georgetown.
  