
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
May 2
The President had a telephone conversation with President Boris Yeltsin of Russia concerning the May 3 visit of Special Envoy and former Prime Minister Viktor Chernomyrdin of Russia.
May 3
In the morning, the President met with Prime Minister Kiezo Obuchi in the Oval Office and, later, in the Cabinet Room.
In the afternoon, the President met with Special Envoy and former Prime Minister Viktor Chernomyrdin of Russia in the Oval Office concerning the situation in the Balkans.
Later, the President met in the Oval Office with civil rights leader Jesse Jackson and his delegation, whose personal appeal won the release of three American infantrymen held prisoner by Serbian authorities.
The President announced his intention to nominate Alberto J. Mora to be a member of the Broadcasting Board of Governors.
The President announced his intention to appoint Daniel Lamaute to serve as a member of the Board of Trustees of the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars.
The President announced his intention to appoint Paul F. Cole and Alan L. Wurtzel as members of the National Skill Standards Board.
May 4
In the afternoon, the President traveled to Brussels, Belgium, arriving the following morning.
The President announced his intention to nominate Larry C. Napper for the rank of Ambassador during his tenure of service as Coordinator for East European Assistance.
The President announced his intention to nominate Edward E. Kaufman to be a member of the Broadcasting Board of Governors.
The President announced his intention to nominate David B. Dunn to be Ambassador to Zambia.
The President announced his intention to nominate James Lewis as Director of the Office of Economic Impact and Diversity at the Department of Energy.
The President declared a major disaster in Oklahoma and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by tornadoes and severe storms May 3-4.
The President declared a major disaster in Kansas and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms and tornadoes on May 3. May 5
In the morning, the President met with NATO Secretary General Javier Solana in his office at NATO Headquarters in Brussels. Later, the President was briefed on NATO military progress in the Balkans by Gen. Wesley K. Clark, USA, Supreme Allied Commander Europe, and Gen. Klaus Naumann, chairman, NATO Military Committee, in Consultation Room 3.
Later in the morning, the President met with Prime Minister Jean-Luc Dehaene of Belgium in the VIP Lounge at Brussels National Airport. The President then traveled to Spangdahlem Air Base, Germany.
In the afternoon, the President was given a tour of military aircraft by F-16, A-10, and F-117 aircrews and ground support personnel on an outdoor aircraft pad. Later, he made remarks to base personnel and their families in Hangar One.
Later in the afternoon, the President traveled to Ramstein Air Base, Germany, where he met with the three servicemen released from Serbia on May 2 and with their families.
In the evening, the President toured the Humanitarian Relief Operations Center at the Warrior Preparation Center. Later, he had dinner with U.S. troops in Hangar 3.
Later in the evening, the President traveled to Rhein Main Air Base, Germany.
The President announced his intention to appoint Laila Al-Marayati, Firuz Kazemzadeh, and Charles Z. Smith as members of the United States Commission on International Religious Freedom.
The President announced his intention to appoint Richard S. Lanier to the Cultural Property Advisory Committee.
The President announced his intention to nominate Mark W. Erwin to be Ambassador to the Republic of Mauritius, to the Republic of Seychelles, and the Federal Islamic Republic of The Comoros.
The President announced his intention to nominate Florence K. Murray to be a member of the Board of Directors of the State Justice Institute.
May 6
In the morning, the President traveled to Ingelheim, Germany. Later, he and Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder of Germany visited a Kosovar refugee family's living quarters in Room 20 of the Refugee Reception Center. The President also had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Massimo D'Alema of Italy concerning the release of Democratic League of Kosovo leader Ibrahim Rugova.
In the afternoon, the President traveled to Bonn, Germany.
In the late afternoon, the President met with Chancellor Schroeder in his third floor office in the Chancellery.
In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC.
The President declared a major disaster in Texas and order Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms and tornadoes on May 4.
May 7
In the morning, the President traveled to Houston, Texas, where he attended a Democratic National Committee luncheon at La Colombre d'Or restaurant in the afternoon. In the evening, the President attended a DNC dinner at a private residence.
The President announced his intention to nominate M. Michael Einik to be Ambassador to the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia.
The President announced his intention to nominate Donald L. Pressley to serve as the Assistant Administrator for Europe and the New Independent States at the U.S. Agency for International Development.
The President announced his intention to nominate Christopher E. Goldthwait to be Ambassador to the Republic of Chad.
The President announced his intention to appoint Morton Bahr, Roger Knutsen, Lawrence Perlman, Susan M. Green, and Patricia W. McNeil as members of the Twenty-First Century Workforce Commission.
The White House announced that the President invited King Abdullah of Jordan for a working visit on May 18.
  