
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate eight individuals, appoint one individual, and upon confirmation designate one individual to serve in his Administration:
The President intends to nominate Troy R. Justesen, of Utah, to be Assistant Secretary for Vocational and Adult Education at the Department of Education. Mr. Justesen currently serves as Deputy Assistant Secretary for Special Education and Rehabilitative Services. Prior to this, he served as Deputy Commissioner for the Rehabilitation Services Administration in the Office of Special Education and Rehabilitative Services. Earlier in his career, he served as Associate Director for the Domestic Policy Council at the White House. Mr. Justesen received his bachelor's and master's degrees from Utah State University. He went on to receive a doctoral degree from Vanderbilt University.
The President intends to nominate Eric Solomon, of New Jersey, to be Assistant Secretary of the Treasury for Tax Policy. Mr. Solomon currently serves as Acting Deputy Assistant Secretary for Tax Policy and Deputy Assistant Secretary for Regulatory Affairs at the Department of the Treasury. Prior to this, he was a Partner at Ernst & Young, LLP. Earlier in his career, he served as Assistant Chief Counsel (Corporate) at the Internal Revenue Service. Before joining the IRS, Mr. Solomon practiced tax law at Cadwalader, Wickersham, & Taft in New York, and was a partner at Drinker Biddle & Reath in Philadelphia. Mr. Solomon received his bachelor's degree from Princeton University and his JD from the University of Virginia. He went on to receive his master's degree from New York University.
The President intends to nominate W. Stuart Symington, IV, of Missouri, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Djibouti. Mr. Symington, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, currently serves as the State Department Representative for the faculty on the National Defense University's Joint Forces Staff College. Prior to this, he served as Deputy Director for the Office of West African Affairs at the Department of State. During this time, he served in Baghdad, Iraq as Acting Deputy Political Counselor. Earlier in his career, he served as Deputy Chief of Mission in Niamey, Niger. Mr. Symington received his bachelor's degree from Brown University and his JD from Columbia University.
The President intends to nominate Ellen C. Williams, of Kentucky, to be a Governor of the Board of Governors of the United States Postal Service, for the remainder of a nine-year term expiring December 8, 2007.
The President intends to nominate the following individuals to be Members of the National Council on Disability, for the remainder of three-year terms expiring September 17, 2007:
John R. Vaughn, of Florida, and upon confirmation designate Chairman.
Victoria Ray Carlson, of Iowa
Chad Colley, of Florida
Lisa Mattheiss, of Tennessee

The President intends to appoint Sean M. Healey, of Massachusetts, to be a Member of the President's Export Council.
  