
    Two new statewide ads focusing on Hillary's commitment to fiscal responsibility and the importance of South Dakota's primary will begin airing statewide today.
The ads, a 30-second spot TV spot entitled "Responsibility" and a 60-second radio spot entitled "Matters," hit the airwaves one week before election day.
[Click here] to watch "Responsibility."
Following are the scripts for the ads.
"RESPONSIBILITY"
TV :30
Hillary Clinton: We are nine trillion dollar debt.
Announcer: George Bush's spending has sent the economy into a tailspin and put social security in jeopardy.
Hillary Clinton: "We borrow money from the Chinese to buy oil from the Saudis."
Announcer: Hillary Clinton will stop spending money America doesn't have. She'll end fifty five billion dollars in giveaways to corporate special interests, reduce the deficit and protect Social Security.
Hillary Clinton: I will get us back to fiscal responsibility.
I'm Hillary Clinton and I approved this message.
"MATTERS"
RADIO: 60
Announcer: In Washington, some people say the presidential primary in South Dakota doesn't much matter. That your voice doesn't really count. But you know what?
Tuesday, we can show 'em.
We can pick a President.
After all, just because South Dakota comes last in the primaries doesn't mean we shouldn't be heard loud and clear.
And we can pick the candidate who'll stand up for us.
Hillary Clinton.
She's tackling the national debt that George Bush is leaving us - nine trillion dollars - because she knows we've got to stop borrowing money from the Chinese to buy oil from the Saudis. Hillary knows we've got to stop spending money we don't have so we can protect social security and get back to fiscal responsibility.
Hillary Clinton will turn this economy around. We've done it before. We can do it again.
Tuesday. Get out and vote. Let South Dakota be heard.
Stand up for Hillary Clinton. She'll always stand up for us.
Hillary Clinton: I'm Hillary Clinton, candidate for President, and I approved this message.
Announcer: Paid for by Hillary Clinton for President.
  