
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate four individuals to serve in his Administration.
The President intends to nominate Cynthia L. Bauerly, of Minnesota, to be a Member of the Federal Election Commission, for the remainder of a six-year term expiring 04/30/11. Ms. Bauerly currently serves as Legislative Director in the Office of Senator Charles E. Schumer. Prior to this, she served as a Policy Director for Senator Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota. Earlier in her career, she served as an Attorney at Frederickson and Byron, PA. She received her bachelor's degree from Concordia College, her master's degree from Indiana University, and her JD from the Indiana University School of Law.
The President intends to nominate Caroline C. Hunter, of Florida, to be a Member of the Federal Election Commission, for the remainder of a six-year term expiring 04/30/13. Ms. Hunter currently serves as a Member of the Election Assistance Commission. Prior to this, she served as Deputy Director of the Office of Public Liaison at the White House. Earlier in her career, she served in the Counsel's office at the Republican National Committee. Ms. Hunter received her bachelor's degree from Pennsylvania State University and her JD from the University of Memphis.
The President intends to nominate Donald McGahn, of the District of Columbia, to be a Member of the Federal Election Commission, for the remainder of a six-year term expiring 04/30/09. Mr. McGahn currently serves as the Managing Member of McGahn & Associates, PLLC. Earlier in his career, he served as an attorney at Patton Boggs. Mr. McGahn received his bachelor's degree from the University of Notre Dame and his JD from the Widener University School of Law.
The President intends to nominate Troy A. Paredes, of Missouri, to be a Commissioner on the Securities and Exchange Commission, for a five-year term beginning 06/06/08. Mr. Paredes currently serves as a Professor of Law at the Washington University School of Law. Prior to this, he worked in private practice in California. Mr. Paredes received his bachelor's degree from the University of California at Berkeley and his JD from Yale Law School.
  