
    Pool Reports by Daniel Bush, Newsweek 



Sent:
Reports:




May 26, 2023 09:22

In-town pool report #1 -- checking in
Good morning from your in-town print pool reporter for today. Here's the president's schedule:
9:30 AM THE PRESIDENT receives the Presidential Daily Briefing Closed Press 
2:00 PM THE PRESIDENT and THE FIRST LADY host a ceremony for the Louisiana State University Tigers Women's Basketball team to celebrate their 2022-2023 NCAA Championship season; THE VICE PRESIDENT delivers remarks; THE SECOND GENTLEMAN attends East Room Pre-Credentialed Media and Pooled for TV (Gather 1:45 PM – Palm Room Doors) 
5:00 PM THE PRESIDENT welcomes the University of Connecticut Huskies Men's Basketball team to the White House to celebrate their 2022-2023 NCAA Championship season; THE SECOND GENTLEMAN attends East Room Pre-Credentialed Media and Pooled for TV (Gather 4:45 PM – Palm Room Doors)
6:30 PM THE PRESIDENT and THE FIRST LADY depart the White House en route to Camp David South Lawn Open Press (Gather 6:20 PM - Palm Room Doors) 


May 26, 2023 11:59

In-town pool report #2 -- lunch lid
The White House has called a lunch lid until 1:15 p.m. 


May 26, 2023 13:48

In-town pool report #3 -- gathering for LSU event
The pool is gathering at the Palm Room Doors, for the  ceremony with the Louisiana State University Tigers Women's Basketball team. 


May 26, 2023 14:13

In-town pool report #4 — two-minute warning
Two-minute warning.
The East Room is packed with guests, among them administration officials and a good number of LSU supporters decked out in the university's purple and gold colors.
From the press office:
In attendance for the President, the Vice President, and the First Lady's remarks celebrating the Louisiana State University (LSU) Tigers Women's Basketball team's 2022-2023 NCAA Championship season are LSU leadership, LSU Women's basketball players, coaches, and staff, and state and local elected leaders:
The Second Gentleman
Rep. Garret Graves (LA-06)Rep. Mike Johnson (LA-04)  Rep. Troy Carter (LA-02)  Ambassador Linda Thomas-Greenfield, U.S. Mission to the United Nations Director Shalanda Young, Office of Management and Budget  Mitch Landrieu, Senior Advisor & Infrastructure Implementation Coordinator Chair Brenda Mallory, Council on Environmental Quality Under Secretary Chavonda Jacobs-Young, Department of Agriculture for Research, Education, and Economics Under Secretary Don Cravins Jr., Department of Commerce for Minority Business Development Marshall Pierite, Chairman of the Tunica-Biloxi Tribe Kim Mulkey, Head Coach of the LSU Women's Basketball team Angel Reese, Forward & Team Captain of the LSU Women's Basketball team Emily Ward, Forward & Team Captain of the LSU Women's Basketball team
Additional players expected to attend: Amani Barlett, Forward Izzy Besselman, Guard Jasmine Carson, Guard Flau'jae Johnson, Guard  Alexis Morris, Guard Last-Tear Poa, Guard Kateri Poole, Guard Sa'Myah Smith, Forward Alisa Williams, Forward LaDazhia Williams, Forward
Run of Show The First Lady The Vice President The President Kim Mulkey, Head Coach of the LSU Women's Basketball team Angel Reese (Team Captain) and Emily Ward (Team Captain) present team jerseys to the President and the First Lady 


May 26, 2023 14:22

In-town pool report #5 — remarks underway
President Biden walked into the East Room at 2:19 p.m., accompanied by the vice president and first lady, shortly after members of the champion Louisiana State University Women's Basketball Team entered and took the stage.
FLOTUS kicked off the program.
The White House is streaming the event. 


May 26, 2023 14:37

In-town pool report #6 — event interrupted/team member medical issue
POTUS stopped his remarks after a member of the LSU team collapsed on stage with a medical issue.
The player is being attended to by medical personnel as the president and team members look on. 


May 26, 2023 14:42

In-town pool report #7 - LSU event resumes
The LSU team player who collapsed on stage has been taken out of the East Room in a wheelchair.
President Biden resumed his remarks at 2:40 pm., and the ceremony is back underway. 


May 26, 2023 14:52

In-town pool report #8 - event over
POTUS wrapped the event and left the East Room at 2:49 pm.
Biden did not respond to shouted questions from the pool about the debt ceiling.
In her remarks, the LSU coach said the player who was taken out of the ceremony was "fine." 


May 26, 2023 16:47

In-town pool report #9 — gathered for UConn event
Pool is gathered to head into the East Room for the UConn event. 


May 26, 2023 17:07

In-town pool report #10 — two-minute warning
Two-minute warning for the East Room event celebrating the UConn men's basketball team title.
The press office sends this:
In attendance for the President's remarks celebrating the University of Connecticut (UConn) Huskies Men's Basketball team's 2022-2023 NCAA Championship season are UConn leadership, UConn Men's basketball players, coaches, and staff, and state and local elected leaders:
The Second Gentleman Senator Richard Blumenthal (CT) Secretary Miguel Cardona, Department of Education Chair Brenda Mallory, Council on Environmental Quality  Chairman Rodney Butler, Mashantucket Pequot Tribal Nation Attorney General William Tong, Connecticut Secretary of State Stephanie Thomas, Connecticut Comptroller Sean Scanlon, Connecticut Treasurer Erick Russell, Connecticut Mayor Luke Bronin, Hartford, Connecticut Mayor Antonia Moran, Storrs, Connecticut  Dan Hurley, Head Coach of the UConn Men's Basketball team Andre Jackson Jr., Guard & Team Captain of the UConn Men's Basketball team Adama Sanogo, Forward & Team Captain of the UConn Men's Basketball team
Additional players expected to attend: Nahiem Alleyne, Guard  Joey Calcaterra, Guard  Donovan Clingan, Center Hassan Diarra, Guard  Yarin Hasson, Forward Jordan Hawkins, Guard  Emmet Hendry, Guard Andrew Hurley, Guard  Andre Johnson, Guard Samson Johnson, Forward  Alex Karaban, Forward  Tristen Newton, Guard  Apostolos Roumoglou, Guard Richie Springs, Forward
Run of Show The President Dan Hurley, Head Coach of the UConn Men's Basketball team Andre Jackson, Jr. (Team Captain) and Adama Sanogo (Team Captain) present a team jersey to the President 


May 26, 2023 17:13

In-town pool report #11 — remarks begin
President Biden entered the East Room at 5:11 p.m., after the University of Connecticut Men's Basketball team took the stage. Biden was accompanied by the UConn team's coach.
The East Room is filled with Huskies fans, lawmakers from Connecticut, and others.
The White House is live streaming the event. 


May 26, 2023 17:29

In-town pool report #12 — UConn event over
President Biden left the East Room at 5:25 p.m., after the UConn event concluded.
Biden did not respond to shouted questions from the pool on his way out about negotiations on the debt ceiling. 


May 26, 2023 18:15

In-town pool report #13 — Awaiting departure
The pool has gathered near the South Portico entrance for President Biden's departure. 


May 26, 2023 18:31

In-town pool report #14 — debt ceiling quotes/M1 liftoff
President Biden stopped to speak briefly on the debt ceiling talks on his way to Marine One.
"Things are looking good, I'm very optimistic," Biden said.
"I hope we'll be able to know by tonight whether we have a deal," Biden said.
Asked if he would bow to Republican demands on work requirements, Biden said "I don't bow to anybody."
It was very difficult for the pool to make out Biden's comments over the noise from M1.
Check partial quotes against the transcript.
After taking a few questions, Biden walked across the lawn and boarded M1.
M1 lifted off at 6:20. Handing off to out-of-town pool. 


May 26, 2023 18:38

In-town pool report #15 -- debt ceiling quote update
An update on this quote: "I hope we'll be able to know by tonight whether we have a deal," Biden said.
"I'm hopeful we'll know by tonight whether we are going to be able to have a deal," Biden said.
Thanks to everyone who helped with remarks at departure.
And per the White House: Traveling with the President aboard Marine One en route to Camp David: Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff Curtis Ried, Deputy Assistant to the President & National Security Council Chief of Staff & Executive Secretary 


May 26, 2023 19:55

In-town pool report #16 — Camp David arrival
From the White House:
President Biden arrived at Camp David at 6:53 p.m. 


May 26, 2023 20:45

In-town pool report #17 -- week ahead guidance
Week ahead guidance, from the White House press office:
 Week Ahead (5/27)
On Sunday, the President and the First Lady will travel from Camp David to New Castle County, Delaware.
In the afternoon, the President and the First Lady will return to the White House from New Castle County, Delaware.
On Monday, the President and the First Lady will host a breakfast in the East Room in honor of Memorial Day.
After, the President and the First Lady will participate in a Wreath Laying Ceremony at the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier at Arlington National Cemetery. The Vice President and the Second Gentleman will attend.
Then, the President will deliver the Memorial Day Address at the 155th National Memorial Day Observance at Memorial Amphitheater at Arlington National Cemetery. The Vice President, the First Lady, and the Second Gentleman will attend.
In the afternoon, the President and the First Lady will travel to Wilmington, Delaware.
On Tuesday, the President and the First Lady will return to the White House from Wilmington, Delaware.
On Thursday, the President will deliver the commencement address at the United States Air Force Academy in El Paso County, Colorado.
On Friday afternoon, the President will attend the Friday Evening Parade at Marine Barracks Washington. 



\r\n
  