
    WASHINGTON – Today, President Barack Obama announced his intent to appoint the following individuals to key Administration posts:
•      Scott Charney, Member, President's National Security Telecommunications Advisory Committee
•      Dick Costolo, Member, President's National Security Telecommunications Advisory Committee
•      David G. DeWalt, Member, President's National Security Telecommunications Advisory Committee
•      Jamie Dos Santos, Member, President's National Security Telecommunications Advisory Committee
•      Lisa Hook, Member, President's National Security Telecommunications Advisory Committee
•      John D. Goldman, Member, Advisory Committee on the Arts for the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts
President Obama said, "I am proud to appoint such impressive men and women to these important roles, and I am grateful they have agreed to lend their considerable talents to this Administration. I look forward to working with them in the months and years ahead."
President Obama announced his intent to appoint the following individuals to key Administration posts:
Scott Charney, Appointee for Member, President's National Security Telecommunications Advisory Committee
Scott Charney is the Corporate Vice President of Microsoft's Trustworthy Computing (TwC) Group. Before TwC, Mr. Charney served as Chief of the Computer Crime and Intellectual Property Section (CCIPS) in the Criminal Division of the U.S. Department of Justice. Mr. Charney also served as an Assistant District Attorney in Bronx County, N.Y., where he later was named Deputy Chief of the Investigations Bureau. He holds two B.A.s from the State University of New York in Binghamton and a J.D. from Syracuse University.
Dick Costolo, Appointee for Member, President's National Security Telecommunications Advisory Committee
Dick Costolo is the current CEO and former COO of Twitter, Inc. He is also an advisor to LaunchBox Digital and a mentor at TechStars, LLC. Prior to Twitter, Mr. Costolo worked at Google from 2007 to 2009, following Google's acquisition of FeedBurner, which he co-founded in 2004. Prior to FeedBurner, Mr. Costolo served as a Senior Vice President at 724 Solutions Inc. Mr. Costolo was also CEO, President and Co-Founder of Spyonit.com. Mr. Costolo holds a B.S. from the University of Michigan.
David G. DeWalt, Appointee for Member, President's National Security Telecommunications Advisory Committee
David G. DeWalt is President of McAfee, which provides computer antivirus and security products and services. Prior to joining McAfee, Mr. DeWalt was President of Software, Sales and Services at EMC, a provider of storage hardware solutions. Previously, Mr. DeWalt was President and CEO of Documentum. He also held executive-level positions at Eventus Software, Quest Software, Segue and Oracle. He holds a B.S. from the University of Delaware.
Jamie Dos Santos, Appointee for Member, President's National Security Telecommunications Advisory Committee
Jamie Dos Santos is the current President and CEO of Terremark Federal Group. She previously served as Chief Marketing Officer for Terremark Worldwide, Inc. Prior to joining Terremark, Ms. Dos Santos worked for several global companies including BellSouth, Bellcore and SAIC. Ms. Dos Santos sits on the AFCEA Intelligence Committee as well as the Information Technology Sector Coordinating Council for the U.S. Protection of Critical Information Infrastructure. Her educational background includes eight years in the Bellcore Training Center, the University of Florida and Harvard Business School for Continuing Education.
Lisa Hook, Appointee for Member, President's National Security Telecommunications Advisory Committee
Lisa Hook is the President and CEO of Neustar, Inc. Prior to joining Neustar, Inc., Ms. Hook held leadership positions at AOL, Time Warner and Viacom. Ms. Hook also served as a senior advisor at the Federal Communications Commission. Ms. Hook currently serves on several corporate and non-profit boards, including Reed Eslevier PLC, Reed Elsevier NV, Reed Elsevier Group PLC and The Ocean Foundation. She holds a B.A. from Duke University and a J.D. from Dickenson School of Law.
John D. Goldman, Appointee for Member, Advisory Committee on the Arts for the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts
John Goldman is the President of the San Francisco Symphony and has served on the Symphony's Board of Governors since 1996. He has been active in other community and philanthropic organizations, serving as the President of the Richard and Rhoda Goldman Fund and as former President of the Jewish Community Federation of San Francisco, Marin, Sonoma Counties, and the Peninsula. Prior to his position with the Symphony, he was the Chairman of Willis Bay Area, Inc. and CEO of Goldman Insurance Services. He received a B.A. from Swarthmore College and an M.B.A. from the Stanford University Graduate School of Business.
  