
    "We are building a safe, strong, and proud America." – President Donald J. Trump
DECADES OF SERVICE: Gina Haspel has displayed dedication and leadership throughout her more than three decades of service with the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA). 

During her more than thirty years of service in the CIA, Gina Haspel has shown an unparalleled commitment to the mission of the CIA and rule of law.

Haspel is a career intelligence officer, having joined the CIA in 1985. 


Gina Haspel has led a historic and distinguished career at the highest levels of the CIA, including as Deputy Director and now Acting Director.

Haspel is the first woman to be nominated as Director of the CIA. 
Haspel has served in senior positions at the CIA, including as: 
Deputy Director of the National Clandestine Service 
Chief of Staff for the Directorate of Operations 
Chief of Station for multiple stations, including locations in Europe and Eurasia 


In order to join the then-growing fight against al Qaeda, Haspel requested a transfer to the CIA's Counterterrorism Center, where her first day on the job was September 11, 2001.

During her three years at the CTC, Haspel served as a deputy group chief and senior-level supervisor. 



EXPERTISE AND UNDERSTANDING: Gina Haspel has developed outstanding intelligence expertise and understanding during her distinguished career at the CIA. 

Gina Haspel is an intelligence expert with a full understanding of the varying aspects of the CIA and the Intelligence Community (IC), developed through her close work with officers across the Agency and the IC. 
Haspel has extensive counterterrorism experience, having served in the CIA's Counterterrorism Center and in the field. 
Through her senior roles at the CIA, Haspel has gained significant management experience and developed a strong working relationship with the White House and Administration officials. 
Haspel has received multiple awards and recognitions during her distinguished career, including:

The Presidential Rank Award, the most prestigious award in federal civil service. 
The Intelligence Medal of Merit, awarded by the CIA for especially meritorious service or achievement above normal duties. 
The George H.W. Bush Award, granted for excellence in counterterrorism. 
The Donovan Award, presented to individuals serving in CIA's Directorate of Operations who demonstrate particularly superior innovation, open mindedness, and dedication to the mission of the Directorate of Operations and exemplify the spirit and tradition of General William "Wild Bill" Donovan. 



A WIDELY REVERED CHOICE TO LEAD THE CIA: Gina Haspel's nomination has gained widespread support from former intelligence and national security officials. 

In a true testimony to her leadership and qualifications, Haspel has earned the praise and respect of her colleagues in the Intelligence Community. 
Intelligence and national security officials across past Administrations have praised Gina Haspel's nomination to lead the CIA.

Leon Panetta, former CIA Director and Secretary of Defense during the Obama Administration, said "I'm glad it's Gina because frankly she is someone who really knows the CIA inside out." 
John Brennan, former CIA Director during the Obama Administration, stated Haspel "has the experience—the breadth and depth—on intelligence issues." 
Michael Hayden, former CIA Director during the Clinton and Bush Administrations, called Haspel a "great choice" and "highly regarded." 
James Clapper, former Director of National Intelligence during the Obama Administration, "think[s] the world of Gina; she is capable, smart, very experienced, well respected by the Agency rank and file, and a great person." 
John Bennett, former Director of CIA's National Clandestine Service during the Obama Administration, remarked that Haspel "is one of the most accomplished officers of her generation. She is extremely smart, strong and unfailingly honest. She is totally committed to the CIA's mission." 
Michael Morell, former CIA Deputy Director during the Obama Administration, said that Haspel is "highly capable, she has deep integrity, and she has the best interests of the country, the Agency, and the men and women who serve it at heart." 
John McLaughlin, former CIA Deputy Director during the Bush Administration, commented "If you were picking a professional officer to head the agency I can't think of a better person than Gina." 


Former senior government officials have written a letter to Chairman and Vice Chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee, Sen. Richard Burr (R-NC) and Sen. Mark Warner (D-VA), urging the swift confirmation of Haspel.

Those offering their support include former senior officials from the CIA, State Department, Federal Bureau of Investigation, Defense Intelligence Agency, Department of Defense, National Security Agency, and more. 



  