
    
  Reps. Culberson, Gohmert, Burgess, Ratcliffe Cite Cruz's Unwavering Conservative Values

HOUSTON, Texas – U.S. Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas, today received the endorsements of Texas Congressmen John Culberson (TX-7), Louie Gohmert (TX-1), Michael Burgess (TX-26), and John Ratcliffe (TX-4) in his bid for President, citing his willingness to take on Washington unwavering conservative values.
"We need someone in the White House who will respect the rule of law and the Constitution. There is no one more dedicated to restoring constitutional principles and protecting our individual liberties than Ted Cruz," said Rep. Culberson.
"Ted Cruz has been a steadfast patriot in the fight to ensure that America's best days will still be ahead of us," said Rep. Gohmert. "As he led the battle against ObamaCare, while fighting for the right and ability to choose our own best healthcare, Ted demonstrated principled leadership. He is also more interested in the opinions of those he serves than of some focus group. In Ted we will have a President who is dedicated to achieving equal opportunity for every single American, not just those who support him. With a Ted Cruz Presidency, America will finally be respected around the world again as other nations will see a courageous and intellectual leader, NEVER wavering on principle, who stands by our allies leaving other countries afraid to be our enemy."
Rep. Burgess added, "From Day One, I've known Ted to say what he means and do what he says. He's proven that in the Senate and has remained steadfast to his strong conservative principles. Standing up to the political elites and the special interests is hard enough, but when you're one of only a handful, that not only shows leadership but great character."
"As a full-spectrum conservative, Ted can bring together Republicans of all stripes. He excites all corners of our movement and will unite the Reagan coalition that represents a majority of the country. After eight years of Obama, it is critical we win in November, and Ted Cruz is the leader to pull that majority together," said Rep. Ratcliffe.
John Culberson is an 8-term congressman from the 7th district representing parts of western Houston and Harris County. In Congress, Rep. Culberson has been a tireless fighter for restoring the 10th amendment; strengthening the economy by cutting taxes, creating jobs, and balancing the budget; securing the border; advancing medical and scientific research; and improving Houston transportation. He earned his law degree from South Texas College of Law in Houston and, prior to serving in Congress, practiced law as a civil defense attorney with the Houston firm Lorance and Thompson.
Louie Gohmert has represented Texas' First District since 2005. As a well-respected voice for conservatives, Rep. Gohmert boldly stands on America's founding principles and is constantly coming up with big, innovative ideas solidly based on Constitutional fundamentals. He serves as the Chairman of the Natural Resources Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations and the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Gohmert was a three-term District Judge in Smith County, Texas, and later appointed by Texas Governor Rick Perry to complete a term as Chief Justice of the 12th Court of Appeals.
Michael Burgess became Texas' 26th District Representative in 2003. As a doctor for nearly three decades, Rep. Burgess has been a strong advocate for health care legislation aimed at reducing health care costs, improving choices, reforming liability laws to put the needs of patients first, ensuring there are enough doctors in the public and private sector to care for America's patients and veterans. He has been an important voice in the fight to repeal Obamacare, as well as making the federal government more efficient, more effective, less costly, and transparent.
John Ratcliffe is a freshman congressman serving Texas' Fourth District and part of the new group of young conservatives elected last fall. Rep. Ratcliffe is a limited government conservative with a well-established record of defending the Constitution and balancing budgets without raising taxes. He is a former mayor and U.S. Attorney, where he earned national acclaim for his efforts to combat terrorism, illegal immigration, drug trafficking, public corruption and Internet child predators.
  