
    WASHINGTON – Today, President Barack Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key Administration posts:
•      Laura A. Cordero, Member, Board of Trustees of the Harry S Truman Scholarship Foundation
•      Barbara McQuiston, Assistant Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Department of Defense
•      Matthew H. Tueller, Ambassador to the State of Kuwait, Department of State
President Obama said, "I am proud that such experienced and committed individuals have agreed to serve the American people in these important roles. I look forward to working with them in the months and years ahead."
President Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key Administration posts:
Laura A. Cordero, Nominee for Member, Board of Trustees of the Harry S Truman Scholarship Foundation
Judge Laura A. Cordero was appointed to the District of Columbia Superior Court in 2005. She currently serves in the Civil Division and is a member of the Judicial Education and Training Committee. She previously served in the Family Court. Prior to her appointment to the bench, Judge Cordero was the Executive Assistant United States Attorney for External Affairs, responsible for developing, coordinating and maintaining effective partnerships with federal and local law enforcement, government agencies and the community in the District of Columbia. In that capacity, she was responsible for coordinating an extensive community engagement network, involving a full range of community-based programs and initiatives for youth and adults specifically aimed at reducing violent crime in the District of Columbia. Judge Cordero previously served in the Department of Justice under the Attorney General's Honor Law Graduate Program as a Trial Attorney in the Civil Rights Division. She has served as an English tutor for Spanish-speaking victims of domestic violence, a tutor for students at Amidon Elementary School, and a facilitator for Project Legal Enrichment and Decision-Making at Marie Reed Learning Center. In addition, she serves as a visiting faculty member at Harvard Law School's Trial Advocacy Workshop. Judge Cordero earned her law degree from Harvard Law School where she served as a student attorney at the Harvard Legal Aid Bureau representing indigent clients. She obtained a Bachelor of Arts in Political Science and Mathematics from DePaul University in Chicago.
Barbara McQuiston, Nominee for Assistant Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Department of Defense
Barbara Kay McQuiston is an independent technology management consultant. During 2010, Ms. McQuiston served as President of Trex Technology Group and Vice President of Trex Enterprises. Before joining Trex Technologies, she was with the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency where her leadership positions included: Acting Director, Defense Sciences Office; Director of the Strategic Technologies Office; and Special Assistant to the Director for Energy. As Assistant to the Director for Energy, she supported the development of significant communications technologies, and championed the development of alternative energy programs to reduce the Department of Defense's dependency on imported fossil fuels. From 2000 to 2006, she was President of McQuiston and Associates, a research consultancy that worked toward the commercialization of new and emergent technologies. She was awarded the Office of Secretary of Defense Medal for Exceptional Public Service. Ms. McQuiston received a B.S. in Economics from the University of Phoenix.
Matthew H. Tueller, Nominee for Ambassador to the State of Kuwait, Department of State
Matthew H. Tueller, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, currently serves as Deputy Chief of Mission at Embassy Cairo. Since joining the U.S. Foreign Service in 1985, other overseas assignments have included Political Minister Counselor at Embassy Baghdad; Deputy Chief of Mission at Embassy Kuwait; Political Counselor at Embassy Riyadh; Chief of the U.S. Office in Aden, Yemen; Deputy Chief of Mission at Embassy Doha; Political Officer at Embassy London; and Political Officer and Consular Officer at Embassy Amman. Washington assignments have included Deputy Director in the Office of Northern Gulf Affairs and Egypt Desk Officer. Mr. Tueller holds a B.A. from Brigham Young University and a M.P.P. from Harvard University John F. Kennedy School of Government.
  