
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate seven individuals to serve in his administration and his designation of one individual to serve in his administration.
The President intends to nominate George G. Williams to be Assistant Secretary of the Army for Acquisition, Logistics and Technology. He is presently the President of COLSA Corporation in Huntsville, Alabama. He was appointed to the Senior Executive Service in 1988 by the Secretary of the Army, and served as Deputy Executive Program Officer for Fire Support at U.S. Missile Command and was then appointed Program Executive Officer for Fire Support in July, 1991. He then served as Program Executive Officer for Tactical Missiles until his retirement from the civil service in 1996. He has earned numerous awards including the Department of Defense Value Engineering PEO of the Year Award, and was the namesake and recipient of the Department of the Army George Williams Excellence in Acquisition Management Civil Service Meritorious Service Medal. Williams is a graduate of North Carolina State University.
The President intends to nominate Otto Wolff to be Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Administration and Chief Financial Officer of the Department of Commerce. He is currently a Professional Staff Member for the U.S. House of Representatives Committee on House Administration. He served at the Department of Commerce as Deputy Assistant Secretary for Administration from 1981 to 1993. Wolff is a graduate of Pennsylvania State University.
The President intends to nominate Linda Mysliwy Conlin to be Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Trade and Development. She is currently a consultant with the Conlin Group in Cherry Hill, New Jersey. From 1994 to 1999, she was Executive Director of the New Jersey Commerce and Economic Growth Commission and Director of the Office of Travel and Tourism. From 1989 to 1993, she served as Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Marketing. From 1986 to 1989, she served at the U.S. Information Agency, first as a Corporate Liaison Officer for the US/USSR Cultural Exchange Exhibit and then as Associate Director in the Office of Private Sector Committees. She is a graduate of the University of Massachusetts.
The President intends to nominate Michael W. Wynne to be Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Technology. He is presently the Chairman and CEO of the Ixata Group based in San Diego, California. From 1997 to 1999, Wynne was Senior Vice President for International Planning and Business Development for General Dynamics, and he was Vice President and General Manager of Space Launch Systems for Lockheed Martin Astronautics from 1994 to 1997. Before joining Lockheed Martin he had served with General Dynamics since 1975, at General Dynamics Fort Worth Division, General Dynamics Corporate Headquarters, General Dynamics Land Systems and General Dynamics Space Division. Originally from Florida, he is a veteran of the U.S. Air Force and a graduate of the U.S. Military Academy, the Air Force Institute of Technology and received a M. B. A. from the University of Colorado.
The President intends to nominate Diane K. Morales to be Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Logistics and Material Readiness. She is currently President of DMS, Inc in Alexandria, Virginia, and served as the Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Logistics from 1990 to 1993. From 1988 to 1990 she was President of Morales Consulting Service Company, defense consulting firm. She served at the Office of Management and Budget from 1985 to 1986 and was member of the Civil Aeronautics Board from 1983 to 1985. Originally from Texas, she is a graduate of the University of Texas.
The President intends to nominate William A. Navas, Jr. to be Assistant Secretary of the Navy for Manpower and Reserve Affairs. Most recently he was Director of the Army National Guard of the United States from 1995 to 1998. From 1994 to 1995, he was Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense and Chief of Staff for Reserve Affairs and from 1992 to 1994 he served as Military Executive for the Reserve Forces Policy Board. Navas was Deputy Director of the Army National Guard from 1987 to 1990 and then Vice-Chief of the National Guard Bureau from 1990 to 1992. A veteran of the U.S. Army, he is a graduate of the University of Puerto Rico, received a Master's from the University of Bridgeport and completed a Program for Senior Managers in Government from the Kennedy School of Government.
The President intends to nominate Robert C. Bonner to be Commissioner of Customs at the Department of the Treasury. He is currently a Partner with the law firm of Gibson, Dunn and Crutcher in Los Angeles, California. He was appointed U.S. Attorney for the Central District of California, by former President Reagan in 1984 and was then appointed by former President Bush in 1989 to serve as a Judge on the U.S. District Court for the Central District of California. From 1990 to 1993, Bonner served as Administrator of the Drug Enforcement Administration. He is a graduate of Trinity University in San Antonio, Texas, received his law degree from Georgetown University and received a Master's in Public Policy from Harvard University.
The President has designated Edward F. Reilly to be Chairman of the United States Parole Commission. Reilly has been a member of the Commission since his appointment in 1992 and served as Chairman from 1992 to 1997. Prior to his involvement with the Parole Commission, he served for 29 years in the Kansas State Legislature - one year in the Kansas House of Representatives and 28 years in the Kansas State Senate. A native of Leavenworth, Kansas, he is a graduate of the University of Kansas.
  