
    (Charleston, WV) - The Clinton campaign announced the support of 11 West Virginia lawmakers today from across the Mountain state. The State Senators and Delegates endorsing Clinton represent diverse districts and are committed to working in their communities to make Hillary successful in the upcoming primary.
"I support Hillary because she is ready to lead America. Her experience speaks for itself. Clinton will jumpstart the economy and help hardworking Americans get ahead - without putting our country further into debt. She has the strength and experience to get us back on track," said House Delegate Richard Browning, Chairman of the Joint Committee on Pensions and Retirement.
"Sen. Clinton understands the importance of agriculture and rural development to West Virginia and the United States. We need a president who will lead this country back to prosperity. We can't afford to wait. Hillary Clinton has the strength and experience to lead on day one in the White House," said House Delegate Bob Tabb, Vice Chair of the Committee on Agriculture.
"I am proud to support Hillary Clinton because she is the only candidate with a health care plan that covers everyone. West Virginia families deserve a president who will keep fighting for the uninsured until every man, woman, and child has quality, affordable health care," said House Delegate Barbara "Bobbie" Hatfield, Vice-Chair of the West Virginia House of Delegates' Health and Human Resources Committee and a registered nurse.
State House and Senate Legislators Endorsing Hillary Clinton include:
Michael Oliverio II, State Senate (D-Monongalia), District 13, Labor Chair
Roman Prezioso, State Senate (D-Marion) District 13, Health and Human Resources Chair
Bonnie Brown, House of Delegates (D-Kanawha), District 30
Richard Browning, House of Delegates (D-Wyoming), District 22, Vice Chair, Economic Development
Barbara Evans Fleischauer, House of Delegates (D-Monongalia), District 44, Constitutional Revision Chair
Barbara "Bobbie" Hatfield, House of Delegates (D-Kanawha), District 30, Vice Chair, Health and Human Resources
Steve Kominar, House of Delegates (D-Mingo), District 20, Chair - Insurance
Linda Longstreth, House of Delegates (D-Marion), District 43, Vice Chair, Veterans Affairs
Tim Miley, House of Delegates (D-Harrison), District 41, Assistant Majority Whip
Dan Poling, House of Delegates (D-Wood), District 10
Bob Tabb, House of Delegates (D-Jefferson), District 56, Vice Chair, Agriculture
  