
    Today, Vice President Kamala Harris met with President Ferdinand R. Marcos Jr. at the Vice President's Residence in advance of a brunch with President Marcos, the Second Gentleman, First Lady Louise Araneta-Marcos, U.S. and Philippine government officials, and representatives of the Filipino-American community, including business and civic leaders. This meeting built on the Vice President's meeting with President Marcos in Manila in November 2022.
The Vice President reaffirmed the strength of the alliance between the United States and the Philippines and emphasized the importance of further expanding our security, economic, and people-to-people ties. Following on their discussions in Manila, the Vice President welcomed President Marcos' announcement of four new sites pursuant to the U.S. Philippines Enhanced Defense Cooperation agreement, which will enhance the Philippines' security and drive investment to local communities. The Vice President also reiterated the United States commitment to upholding international rules and norms, including in the South China Sea, and reiterated the United States commitment to the defense of the Philippines under Article IV of the 1951 U.S.-Philippines Mutual Defense Treaty. Building on the Vice President's visit to Palawan, where she launched new initiatives to support Philippine maritime law enforcement agencies, the Vice President and President Marcos discussed strengthening our Coast Guard partnership and U.S.-Philippine maritime cooperation.
The Vice President and President Marcos also discussed strengthening the U.S.-Philippines economic partnership and noted President Biden's plan to dispatch a Presidential Trade and Investment Mission to the Philippines to grow investment between our countries.
The Vice President also emphasized our commitment to the rule of law and respect for human rights, including labor rights, freedom of expression and the press, and other democratic principles and the importance of these areas for the U.S.-Philippines partnership.
  