
    Pool Reports by Eugene Daniels, Politico 



Sent:
Reports:




May 17, 202208:03

In-Town Pool Report
Hey all, I'm your in town pooler for this beautiful Tuesday in DC. The pool has been called to gather at the Palm Doors.
Here's a quick review of Biden's day per the White House:

THE PRESIDENT and THE FIRST LADY depart the White House en route Joint Base Andrews

South LawnOpen Press and Pooled for TV
Traveling with the President: Donilon, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President
Liz Sherwood-Randall, Assistant to the President & Homeland Security Advisor & Deputy National Security AdvisorAnnie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office OperationsAnthony Bernal, Assistant to the President & Advisor to the First Lady
3:25 PM THE PRESIDENT and THE FIRST LADY arrive at the White HouseSouth LawnOpen Press and Pooled for TV (Gather3:15 PM– Palm Room Doors)
4:00 PM THE PRESIDENT and THE FIRST LADY host a reception to celebrate Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander Heritage Month; THE VICE PRESIDENT and THE SECOND GENTLEMAN attendRose GardenOpen Press (Final Gather3:45 PM– Palm Room Doors)[RSVP hereby10:00 AM]



May 17, 202208:18

In-Town Pool Report #2 — Departure
The president and First Lady came out around 8:12 but did not stop to talk to pool.
Biden and the First Lady walked out and to the helicopter hand in hand. Ignored questions. Wheels up 8:16.



May 17, 202212:59

In-Town Pool #3 - Pool loaded up
In-town pool is loaded up to head to JBA to cover Biden's return to the White House.
Rolled out at 12:58.



May 17, 202214:15

In town pool report #4 —Motorcade rolling
Motorcade rolled back to White House around 2:13.



May 17, 202214:38

In-town pool #5 — Arrived at WH
Motorcade pulled onto campus around 2:34. Pool did not see POTUS.



May 17, 202215:12

In town pool report #6 — lunch lid called until 3:30
[APP Note: No additional text was included in this report.]



May 17, 2022
[APP Note: Report #7 does not exist or was not received by the APP.]


May 17, 202216:03

In-Town Pool #8 — Event has begun. Waiting on programming.
The event in the Rose Garden has begun and we're waiting on President Biden. There are tables of drink and food being passed around by waiters. Seems like about 150 people in attendance.
(Shout out to the WH side who pointed out actor Daniel Dae Kim.)
From the White House:
In attendance for the Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander Heritage Month reception are more than 200 guests, including members of Congress, members of the Administration, and Asian-American leaders and advocates.
Speaking program:The First LadyAmbassador Katherine Tai, United States Trade RepresentativeThe Vice PresidentThe President
The event will be live-streamed on the WH channels.



May 17, 202216:14

In Town pool # 9 - two minute warning for AAPI event
[APP Note: No additional text was included in this report.]



May 17, 202216:17

In town Pool Report #10 - Programming starting
Reminder: it's live-streamed on White House channels.



May 17, 202217:04

In-Town Pool Report #11 - Biden Wrapped/Photo Line
Event wrapped at 4:40. President Biden and VP Harris addressed the shooting in Buffalo and overall hate and racism in the country.
Biden and Harris participated in a photo line until 5:04 before heading back into the White House.



May 17, 202217:20

In Town Pool #12 Travel photo lid
Travel/photo lid called at 5:19 PM. Have a lovely evening everyone!




 
Pool Reports below by Jonathan Lemire, Politico 



Sent:
Reports:




May 17, 202207:59

Travel Pool #1 - Buffalo trip background
Good morning, I'll be your out-of-town pooler today. The President and First Lady will be traveling to Buffalo, NY today in the wake of Saturday's mass shooting.
Pool has been swept at JBA and we await POTUS' arrival. Below, please find the background statement on the visit sent out by a White House official last night as well as the travel portion of today's schedule:
On background from a White House official –
[Today], the President and the First Lady will travel to Buffalo to meet with families of the victims, law enforcement and first responders, and community leaders. During the trip, the President and First Lady will visit the TOPS Market Memorial, where they'll pay their respects to the lives lost in Saturday's tragic shooting. Afterwards, the President and First Lady will meet with family members of the victims, law enforcement and first responders, and local leaders at a community center to offer their condolences and comfort to those affected by this tragedy.
After, the President will deliver remarks at the community center. The President will call this despicable act for what it is: terrorism motivated by a hateful and perverse ideology that tears at the soul of our nation. He'll call on all Americans to give hate no safe harbor, and to reject the lies of racial animus that radicalize, divide us, and led to the act of racist violence we saw on Saturday that took the lives of 10 of our countrymen. President Biden will call on Congress to take action to keep weapons of war off our streets, and keep guns out of the hands of criminals and people who have a serious mental illness that makes them a danger to themselves or others. And the President will call on Americans to seek a more perfect Union that embraces the diversity that has made us the strongest and most dynamic nation in the history of the world.
-----
8:10 AM THE PRESIDENT and THE FIRST LADY depart the White House en route Joint Base AndrewsSouth LawnOpen Press and Pooled for TV (Gather 8:00 AM – Palm Room Doors)
8:30 AM THE PRESIDENT and THE FIRST LADY depart Joint Base Andrews en route Buffalo, New York Joint Base AndrewsOut-of-Town Pool
9:45 AM THE PRESIDENT and THE FIRST LADY arrive in Buffalo, New YorkBuffalo-Niagara International AirportOpen Press
10:25 AM THE PRESIDENT and THE FIRST LADY pay their respects to the lives lost in Saturday's tragic shootingTOPS Market Memorial, Buffalo, New YorkOut-of-Town Pool 
11:00 AM THE PRESIDENT and THE FIRST LADY meet with families of victims, law enforcement and first responders, and community leaders to grieve and offer their condolences Delavan Grider Community Center, Buffalo, New York Closed Press
1:00 PM THE PRESIDENT delivers remarksDelavan Grider Community Center, Buffalo, New York Open to Pre-Credentialed Media [RSVP here by 10:00 PM]
2:00 PM THE PRESIDENT and THE FIRST LADY depart Buffalo, New York en route Joint Base AndrewsBuffalo-Niagara International AirportOut-of-Town Pool
3:05 PM THE PRESIDENT and THE FIRST LADY arrive at Joint Base AndrewsJoint Base AndrewsOut-of-Town Pool
3:25 PM THE PRESIDENT and THE FIRST LADY arrive at the White HouseSouth LawnOpen Press and Pooled for TV (Gather 3:15 PM – Palm Room Doors)



May 17, 202208:32

Travel Pool #2 - JBA and Departure for Buffalo
Clear, pretty day on the tarmac at JBA. M1 was wheels down at 8:24 am, with POTUS and FLOTUS stepping off three minutes later, removing their masks.
They walked side by side and headed up the stairs without taking questions. The First Couple boarded the aircraft at 8:28.
White House press secretary Karine Jean-Pierre will gaggle during the flight; look for that to be live-streamed on the WH site. The first in-town pool report listed travelers with the president and we spotted Senate Majority Chuck Schumer board AF1.
We will be rolling and wheels up shortly.



May 17, 202209:47

Travel Pool #3 - Buffalo arrival
AF1 was wheels down at Buffalo-Niagara International Airport at 9:29 am. POTUS and FLOTUS held hands as they departed the plane at 9:40. The president then hugged NY Gov Kathy Hochul and spoke to Sen. Schumer and Buffalo Mayor Byron Brown. He then shook hands with law enforcement officers awaiting on the tarmac.
Before stepping into the motorcade, Biden and Schumer had a quick private conversation with the Senate Majority Leader repeatedly patting his own chest. POTUS then tapped Schumer's shoulder. A bouquet of white flowers was spotted on the seat of the presidential limo. We are rolling at 9:46.
During the flight, press secretary Karine Jean-Pierre came back to gaggle. A few highlights:
- She said the president would deem the shooting an act of "terrorism motivated by hateful and perverse ideology that tears are the soul of our nation" and that he would "call on Congress to take weapons of war off our streets."
- She said they would be studying the domestic terrorism prevention legislation.
- She said that the WH would not call out by name those in politics or media espousing the racist replacement theory saying they don't want to give them any additional attention. She said "The people who spread this filth know who they are and should be ashamed of themselves."
- She expressed confidence that Finland and Sweden would be admitted to NATO and pointed to the leaders' visit to the White House this week.
- She provided no update on student loans and declined to speak on today's primary elections.
She spoke for roughly 18 minutes. There were no other visitors to the press cabin. Per WH, Traveling with the President and the First Lady to Buffalo, New York on Air Force One:
Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer (NY) Senator Kirsten Gillibrand (NY)Representative Brian Higgins (NY-27)Mike Donilon, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the PresidentBruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of StaffLiz Sherwood-Randall, Assistant to the President & Homeland Security Advisor & Deputy National Security AdvisorAnnie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office OperationsAnthony Bernal, Assistant to the President & Advisor to the First LadyKarine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press SecretaryVinay Reddy, Deputy Assistant to the President & Director of SpeechwritingJulie Rodriguez, Deputy Assistant to the President & Director of Intergovernmental AffairsMeghan Hays, Special Assistant to the President & Director of Message PlanningMichael LaRosa, Special Assistant to the President & Press Secretary for the First LadyTravis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip DirectorMichael Hochman, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Staff SecretaryJonathan Black, Special Assistant to the President & Senate Legislative Affairs LiaisonStephen Goepfert, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the President
Jean-Pierre added that joining the president on the ground in Buffalo will be a delegation including NY Gov. Kathy Hochul, the mayor of Buffalo and other local leaders



May 17, 202209:59

Travel Pool #4 - Arrival at TOPS Market
At 9:59, the motorcade arrived at TOPS Market, the site of Saturday's mass shooting that killed 10 people and injured three others.
The ride was uneventful, with a smattering of supporters - and a few people holding Trump signs - near the airport. More onlookers were on the streets near the supermarket
Updates to follow. Also, per WH, the greeters back at the airport:
Kathy Hochul, Governor, New York (NY)Byron Brown, Mayor of Buffalo (NY)
New York police officers and firefighters
Participating in a greet with the President and the First Lady on the tarmac:
Erie County Sheriff John GarciaErie County Undersheriff William CooleyChief of Police of Cheektowaga Brian GouldMajor for Troop A or New York State police Eugene staniszewskiColonel Richard Allen of NY State PoliceChief of the NFTA (airport authority) Police Brian PattersonDivision Chief from Buffalo FD Wendy Majtyka-HartmanChief of NFTA (airport authority) Fire Department William Major



May 17, 202210:13

Travel Pool #5 - TOPS Market memorial
The First Couple stepped out of the limousine at 10:01 and walked hand-in-hand to a makeshift memorial just across from the supermarket. The First Lady placed a bouquet of white flowers. POTUS crossed himself as both stood silently in front of a tree, the base of which is now covered with tributes to the victims, including flowers, signs and candles
After placing flowers at the memorial, Biden and the First Lady stood for about one minute paying their respects. The President put his right hand to his heart. The First Lady appeared to nod.
Biden and the First Lady then stepped away from the memorial to make way for Gov. Hochul and Senator Schumer. The two New York officials each placed bouquets down at the tree.
As the New York delegation stepped back to gather around the President and First Lady, New York attorney general Letitia James stayed behind to pay respects at the memorial for at least 30 more seconds.
After talking to the elected officials for several minutes, POTUS stepped back in his vehicle at 10:09 and rolled again a minute later.
The memorial is across a small street from the market's parking lot. Other trees on the street also have been decorated with memorials.
My thanks to co-pooler Zolan Kanno-Young of the NYT for help. Per WH:
Greeting the President and the First Lady at the Tops Supermarket Memorial:Erie County Executive Mark Poloncarz (NY)Reverend Darius Pridgen, Buffalo City Council President



May 17, 202210:24

Travel Pool #6 - Meeting with families and first responders
The motorcade arrived at the Delavan Grider Community Center, also in Buffalo, at 10:20. The ride was uneventful; at one point, we passed a group of several hundred schoolchildren waving American flags.
POTUS, per WH, will now meet with the families of the shooting victims and first responders. It is closed press and expected to last a couple of hours. We did not have eyes on the president arriving. The president's remarks are slated to begin at 1:00 pm



May 17, 202211:54

Travel Pool #7 - Program Begins, no POTUS yet
A note that NY Gov. Kathy Hochul has taken the podium and begun speaking, kicking off the program at 11:48 am. No sign of the president yet; the WH advises that there will be several speakers going before him. The run of show:Kathy Hochul, Governor, New York (NY)Congressman Brian Higgins (NY-26)Senator Kirsten Gillibrand (NY)Majority Leader Chuck Schumer (NY)Mayor Byron Brown, Buffalo, New YorkThe President
-----
Also, the WH just now sent this along:
Those who greeted the President and the First Lady on arrival at Joint Base Andrews this morning:
Colonel Matthew Jones, 89th Airlift Wing CommanderMrs. Edmund, 89th Airlift Wing Senior/Training Protocol SpecialistMrs. Parrish, 89th Airlift Wing Protocol Specialist



May 17, 202212:21

Travel Pool #8 - Two Minute Warning to POTUS
The White House, at 12:19 pm, advises that we are running ahead of schedule and the president will be taking the stage in approximately in two minutes. The speech is being carried live; the president is being introduced by Buffalo Mayor Byron Brown. The WH sent along a note that The President and the First Lady met with survivors and families of victims. Pool asked for their identities, we will let you know if we obtain them.
The president's speech will be held on the basketball gym of the Delavan Grider Community Center. His lectern was positioned in front of two pairs of American and New York State flags. More than a hundred people were gathered in the gym well ahead of Biden's remarks. Elected officials and the families who met with the president backstage have filed in.
Outside, a crowd of several hundred people has gathered. There is some tension in the air, with some gathered loudly trying to plead their case to be let inside.
My thanks again to Zolan for the assist



May 17, 202212:23

Travel Pool #9 - POTUS Begins Speaking
President Biden began speaking here in Buffalo at 12:23 pm.
The speech is being carried live



May 17, 202212:42

Travel Pool #10 - POTUS concludes
POTUS ended his remarks at 12:38 pm, after speaking for approximately 15 minutes.
One detail from inside the room: the President briefly choked up when telling the story of the mass shooting victim who was killed at the grocery store while shopping for a birthday cake for his three-year-old son



May 17, 202212:47

Travel Pool #11 - Motorcade Rolling
At 12:45 pm, the president's motorcade began rolling away from the community center.
The president, with his mask back in place, briefly shook a few hands in the crowd after finishing his speech.



May 17, 202213:10

Travel Pool #12 - POTUS gaggles - Return to Washington
The motorcade arrived at Buffalo-Niagara International Airport at 12:55 pm after an uneventful ride. We are well ahead of schedule.
POTUS came over to speak to the pool on the tarmac for a few moments. He said his message to the grieving families is that they "would be in pain for a long while" but better days will be ahead.
On whether members of Congress and Tucker Carlson are to be blamed for replacement theory fueling violence: he said he believes anybody who echoes or advocates the theory deserves some blame "not for this particular crime, but it serves no purpose, no purpose, except for profit and/or political benefit." He said it is "wrong, simply wrong."
On gun control: says he has "to convince Congress to go back to what I passed years ago." On chances of success, he says "it is going to be very difficult but I am not going to give up."
On domestic terrorism statute, says "we have enough laws on the books to deal with what's going on."
As always, check quotes against the transcript. POTUS and FLOTUS boarded AF1 at 1:00. We will soon be rolling and wheels up to JBA.



May 17, 202214:13

Travel Photo #13 - Return to JBA
AF1 was wheels down at 1:58 pm. No visitors during the flight.
POTUS and FLOTUS deplaned at 2:10 and walked to the waiting motorcade. He will be driving back to the White House
Handing off to in-town pool. Have a great rest of your day.




  