
    The following listing contains releases of the White House Press Office which are not included in this issue.
Released May 14, 1979
Announcement: cosponsorship of regional seminars on foreign trade and export development by the White House and the National Governors' Association
Released May 15, 1979
Announcement: nomination of James P. Jones to be United States District Judge for the Western District of Virginia
Released May 16, 1979
Announcement: nomination of Avern Cohn to be United States District Judge for the
Eastern District of Michigan Announcement: nomination of Anna Diggs-Taylor to be United States District Judge for the Eastern District of Michigan
Announcement: nomination of Stewart A. Newblatt to be United States District Judge for the Eastern District of Michigan
News conference: on water policy cost-sharing legislation—by Secretary of the Interior Cecil D. Andrus Fact sheet: water policy cost-sharing legislation
News conference: on administration measures taken to meet gasoline shortages in California—by Secretary of Energy James R. Schlesinger and Stuart E. Eizenstat, Assistant to the President for Domestic Affairs and Policy
Released May 17, 1979
Announcement: nomination of Joseph W. Hatchett to be United States Circuit Judge for the Fifth Circuit
Announcement: nomination of Thomas M. Reavley to be United States Circuit Judge for the Fifth Circuit
Announcement: nomination of William L. Hungate to be United States District Judge for the Eastern District of Missouri Announcement: nomination of Howard F. Sachs to be United States District Judge for the Western District of Missouri
Announcement: nomination of Jose A. Lopez to be United States Marshal for the District of Puerto Rico
Released May 18, 1979
News conference: on basic research initiatives in automotive technology—by Secretary of Transportation Brock Adams, Frank Press, Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy, and Philip Caldwell, vice chairman of Ford Motor Co. and president of the Automobile Manufacturers Association
Fact sheet: basic research initiatives in automotive technology
  