
    Today I join with Cuban-Americans and the people of Cuba to celebrate Cuban Independence Day. As we recognize this important occasion, we hope that the winds of change are beginning to stir, and wish for better days ahead.
After nearly 50 years of one-man rule, the new leadership in Cuba faces a choice -- continue with the failed policies of the past that have stifled democratic freedoms and stunted economic growth - or take an historic step to bring Cuba into the community of democratic nations.
Since Raul Castro formally took power, he has announced some measures that have the potential to make improvements in the lives of the Cuban people, including easing regulations on the purchase of computers and cell phones. Unfortunately, these are merely incremental steps in a society that yearns for genuine freedoms and a democratic opening. The new authorities should take immediate steps to release political prisoners, permit free expression and assembly, and set the stage for open and competitive elections.
The people of Cuba want to seize the opportunity for real change, and so must we. The American people have been on the side of the Cuban people's struggle for freedom and democracy in the past, and we must and we will be on the side of the Cuban people in the future.
As President, I will engage our partners in Latin America and Europe who have a strong stake in seeing a peaceful transition to democracy in Cuba, and who want very much for the United States to play a constructive role to that end. I believe that we should maintain current restrictions on trade with Cuba until the government takes concrete steps to guarantee political and civil liberties and permit free and fair elections. We should also support providing assistance for independent Cuban civil society, Radio and Television Marti, negotiating direct mail service to Cuba, and upgrading telecommunications equipment to ease communication between the people of Cuba and their relatives abroad. I have also voted to support greater flexibility for immediate family members to visit Cuba in humanitarian cases.
The United States must pursue an active policy to advance the cause of freedom, democracy, and opportunity for the people of Cuba. That is the policy I will pursue as President.
  