
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
May 16
In the morning, the President traveled to Weston-under-Lizard, a village north of Birmingham, United Kingdom, where he participated in Group of Eight Summit meetings in the Weston Park estate home throughout the morning. In the afternoon, the President presented Prime Minister Jean Chretien of Canada with a NHL Washington Capitals jersey to wear during a photo-op as a result of the Capitals' victory over the Ottawa Senators in the second round of the NHL playoffs. Later, the President returned to Birmingham.
In the evening, the President and Hillary Clinton attended a dinner with summit leaders in the Pavilion Restaurant at the Birmingham Botanical Gardens. Later, they attended a concert in the Symphony Hall at the International Convention Center.
May 17
In the morning, the President attended the closing session of the G-8 Summit in Hall 4 of the International Convention Center.
In the afternoon, the President and Hillary Clinton traveled to Chequers, country residence of Prime Minister Tony Blair of the United Kingdom, in Buckinghamshire.
May 18
In morning, the President traveled to London, United Kingdom, where he attended several European Union-United States Summit meetings at 10 Downing Street throughout the morning and into the afternoon.
In the afternoon, the President and Prime Minister Blair had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif of Pakistan concerning nuclear proliferation in South Asia. Later, the President and Hillary Clinton traveled to Geneva, Switzerland.
In the evening, the President and Hillary Clinton returned to Washington, DC.
May 20
The President announced his intention to appoint Anne-Lee Verville as a member of the National Skill Standards Board.
The White House announced that President Clinton invited President Kim Dae-jung of South Korea for a state visit June 8-11.
May 21
In the morning, the President had a telephone conversation with President Boris Yeltsin of Russia concerning the situation in India and Pakistan.
The President also had a telephone conversation with Larry Bentz, principal of Thurston High School in Springfield, OR, to express condolences on the shooting incident at the school.
The President announced his intention to appoint Secretary of Transportation Rodney E. Slater and his intention to nominate Sylvia de Leon, Linwood Holton, Amy M. Rosen, John Robert Smith, Michael Dukakis, and Gov. Tommy G. Thompson of Wisconsin as members of the Amtrak Reform Board.
The President announced his intention to appoint John O. Norquist to serve as a member of the Amtrak Reform Council.
May 22
In the morning, the President traveled to Annapolis, MD, and in the afternoon, he returned to Washington, DC.
The President announced his intention to nominate Louis Caldera to be Secretary of the Army.
The President announced his intention to nominate Robert C. Randolph to be Assistant Administrator for Asia and Near East Affairs at the U.S. Agency for International Development.
The President announced his intention to nominate Awilda R. Marquez to be Assistant Secretary and Director General of the U.S. and Foreign Commercial Service at the Department of Commerce.
The President announced his intention to nominate Hugh Q. Parmer to be Assistant Administrator for Humanitarian Response at the U.S. Agency for International Development.
The President announced his intention to nominate Greta Joy Dicus as a member of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission.
The President announced his intention to nominate Joan Specter as a member of the National Council on the Arts.
In the evening, the President and Hillary Clinton went to Camp David, MD.
  