
    Vice President Harris Reminded Cadets That the World Needs Their Leadership
On Wednesday, May 18, the Vice President delivered the commencement address at The United States Coast Guard Academy, where she spoke to the largest graduating class in Academy history about the importance of upholding and strengthening the international rules-based order and how the Cadets will contribute to this work through their Coast Guard service. She described the state of the world that Cadets are entering, where long-standing rules and norms are under question, including in Ukraine, and how their role and influence in the Coast Guard will help protect the security of the United States and the world.
Vice President Harris was joined by Secretary Alejandro Mayorkas, U.S. Department of Homeland Security, Admiral Karl L. Schultz, Commandant of the U.S. Coast Guard, and Rear Admiral William G. Kelly, Superintendent of the U.S. Coast Guard Academy.
Read more below:
AP: Harris tells Coast Guard grads rule of law is under attack[Aamer Madhani, 5/18/2022]
Vice President Kamala Harris told the U.S. Coast Guard Academy's graduating cadets that they are starting their service at a crucial moment for the world, a period in history when the "rule of law is strained" and "fundamental principles are under threat."
Harris, in the commencement speech Wednesday at the academy in New London, Connecticut, reflected on the state of the world in which long-standing rules and norms are more frequently coming under attack, noting the Russian invasion of Ukraine.
"And the challenges we face are broader than Russia," Harris said. "Around the world, we see additional attempts to undermine the rules-based order: Nations that threaten the freedom of the seas; criminal gangs and traffickers who skirt the rule of law, and fuel corruption and violence; those that manipulate and undermine the foundations of international commerce."
The Democratic vice president also made the case that as Coast Guard members the graduates will play an important role in helping the United States uphold the international rules-based order, calling it one of the United States' "defining missions." […]
The Day: Vice President Kamala Harris congratulates cadets on 'remarkable journey'[Erica Moser, 5/18/22]
[…] Vice President Kamala Harris delivered the keynote address during the 141st Commencement Exercises of the Coast Guard Academy Wednesday, congratulating cadets on completing a "a remarkable journey."
On foreign policy, Harris described the state of the world that cadets are entering, where long-standing rules and norms are under question, including in Ukraine, but also more broadly around the world. She underscored that upholding the international rules-based order is how we ensure the safety, security, and prosperity of the United States and how we preserve stability around in the world — and that the Coast Guard plays a vital role in these efforts. […]
On domestic policy, Harris talked about how the Coast Guard supports American jobs and livelihoods, ensures the resilience of our supply chains, and contributes to our efforts on climate, and cybersecurity, among other areas.
NBC Connecticut: VP Kamala Harris Delivers Keynote Address at Coast Guard Academy
[Siobhan McGirl, 5/18/22]
Harris commended all of the Cadets for their hard work and applauded them for what they have accomplished. She said the Cadets are doing the critical work to protect our country, advance our interests and shape the trajectory of world affairs.
"The world you graduate into is unsettled. It is a world where long-established principles now rest on shaky ground. Where the rule of law is strained. Where rules and norms are under question," Harris said in part.
Harris also mentioned about the challenges the world is facing including Russia's invasion of Ukraine, criminal gangs and traffickers, fuel corruption and violence, and hate including during the shooting at a Buffalo, New York, grocery store recently.
"When I think about the security of the United States and the world, I am clear-eyed: One of our defining missions is to strengthen the international rules-based order. To defend it. To promote it. And to build on it," she said in part.
She encouraged the Cadets to learn from the past and to not be limited by it. "We know you are ready, ready to serve and your country is so proud of you," Harris added. […]
The Hill: Harris tells Coast Guard cadets they must defend rule of law in 'unsettled' world[Morgan Chalfant, 5/18/22]
"Harris spoke about Russia's war in Ukraine, saying it is testing the principles of sovereignty and territorial integrity, and described other efforts to 'undermine the rules-based order.'
"'The world you graduate into is unsettled. It is a world where long-established principles now rest on shaky ground. Where the rule of law in places is strained. Where rules and norms are under question,' the vice president said."
"She described the cadets as key players in helping uphold the rule of law abroad."
Axios: Harris reflects on "unsettled" world during Coast Guard graduation speech[Ivana Saric, 5/18/22]
"Vice President Kamala Harris told graduates of the 'critical work' they will do in a time where the 'rule of law' is strained and long established norms are 'under question,' while delivering the commencement address at the U.S. Coast Guard Academy on Wednesday."
"Driving the news: During her address, Harris touched on Russia's war in Ukraine and the recent mass shooting in Buffalo, New York."
Fox61: U.S. Coast Guard graduates new cadets, VP Harris gives keynote address[Jennifer Glatz, 5/18/22]
"The vice president made the case that as Coast Guard members, the graduates will play an important role in helping the United States uphold the international rules-based order, calling it one of the United States' 'defining missions.'
'Over time, this order has been tried. This order has been tested. And far too often, this order has been taken for granted,' Harris said. 'Frankly, sometimes we forget how rare it is in human history to have a period of relative peace and stability among nations.'"
New Haven Register: Vice President Kamala Harris tells Coast Guard grads: 'Rule of law is strained'[Peter Yankowski, Julia Bergman, 5/18/22]
"Vice President Kamala Harris told Coast Guard cadets graduating Wednesday they were entering their service at a time when the 'rule of law is strained' and 'fundamental principles are under threat.'
"In her speech, the vice president, whose visit marked her first to the U.S. Coast Guard Academy, also touched on the Russian invasion of Ukraine earlier this year."
"'And the challenges we face are broader than Russia,' Harris said. 'Around the world, we see additional attempts to undermine the rules-based order: Nations that threaten the freedom of the seas; criminal gangs and traffickers who skirt the rule of law, and fuel corruption and violence; those that manipulate and undermine the foundations of international commerce.'"
Spectrum News 1: In commencement address, VP Harris tells Coast Guard grads they enter an 'unsettled' world[Justin Tasolides, 5/18/22]
"Harris, in her remarks, reflected on the state of the world in which long-standing rules and norms are more frequently coming under attack, specifically making mention of Russia's invasion of Ukraine, telling the cadets that they are graduating 'into a world is going to need your leadership; One that is full of possibility and the promise of progress. At the same time, the world you graduate into is unsettled.'
'It is a world where long-established principles now stand on shaky ground, where the rule of law in places is strained, where rules and norms are under question,' she said."
  