
    Today, New Mexico Governor Michelle Lujan Grisham released the following statement endorsing Joe Biden for President of the United States:
"Joe Biden is an honest man of high character. He understands the need for meaningful investments in our families and in our public education system; he understands that access to quality health care is a right and not a privilege; he understands that every single American, no matter her race, faith, gender, zip code or sexual orientation, deserves the opportunity to succeed on her own terms and to live in peace. He has demonstrated his commitment to middle-class families every single day of his incredible career in public service. He will continue that fight every single day in the White House. I am honored to endorse him as our next president.
"The COVID-19 pandemic has only exacerbated the unprecedented failings of character and leadership that have defined this presidency. This is a time of crisis, as we all know too well. The current occupant of the White House is unfit to — and more importantly unable to — lead this country through to the other side and on the long haul to nationwide economic recovery. Joe Biden represents more than a return to integrity — though he certainly represents that. Joe Biden represents an opportunity for this nation to heal, all together, from the grievous wounds of the past three years and of this public health emergency. Joe Biden will begin the process of rebuilding this nation. And I'm thrilled to formally announce my support for his campaign today."
Governor Michelle Lujan Grisham made history in 2018 as the first Democratic Hispanic woman governor in the nation. Prior to serving as governor, Lujan Grisham served in the House of Representatives representing New Mexico's first congressional district fighting for equal pay, health care access, education, and protections for public lands. In 2016, she was chair of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, advocating against the federal government's discriminatory immigration policies.
Governor Lujan Grisham's endorsement builds on the wide support for Joe Biden in New Mexico which includes Senator Tom Udall, Congresswoman Deb Haaland, Congressman Ben Ray Luján, and local leaders across the state. Biden for President has previously announced more than 3,000 endorsements from national, state, and local leaders, including current and former U.S. senators and representatives, governors, state elected officials, community leaders, and national security professionals
  