
    WASHINGTON, DC – Today, President Barack Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individual to a key Administration post:
•      Davita Vance-Cooks – Public Printer, Government Printing Office
The President also announced his intent to appoint the following individuals to key Administration posts:
•      Margaret W. Burcham – Commissioner, Mississippi River Commission
•      Leonard Forsman – Member, Advisory Council on Historic Preservation
President Obama said, "I am confident that these outstanding individuals will greatly serve the American people in their new roles and I look forward to working with them in the months and years to come."
President Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individual to a key Administration post:
Davita Vance-Cooks, Nominee for Public Printer, Government Printing Office
Davita Vance-Cooks is currently Deputy Public Printer of the Government Printing Office (GPO), a position she has held since December 2011. Ms. Vance-Cooks has served in a number of other roles at GPO since 2004, including Chief of Staff, Managing Director of the Publications and Information Sales Business Unit, and Deputy Managing Director of Customer Services. Prior to joining GPO, she was the General Manager at HTH Worldwide Insurance Services from 2001 to 2004. Previously, she served as the Vice President of Consumer Services at Digital Insurance from 2000 to 2001. From 1993 to 2000, Ms. Vance-Cooks served in several roles with NYLCare Health Plans of the Mid-Atlantic, which was purchased by Aetna during her tenure. Ms. Vance-Cooks received her B.S. from Tufts University and an M.B.A. from Columbia University.
President Obama announced his intent to appoint the following individuals to key Administration posts:
Brigadier General Margaret W. Burcham, USA, Appointee for Commissioner, Mississippi River Commission
Brigadier General Margaret W. Burcham is Commanding General of the United States Army Engineer Division, Great Lakes and Ohio River, a post she has held since 2011. Previously, she served as Division Chief of the Joint Capabilities Division, J-8, Joint Staff in Washington D.C. In addition, she served as a District Commander of the Army Corps of Engineers in the North District of the Gulf Region Division in Operation Iraqi Freedom. Brigadier General Burcham's earlier tours include Chief of the Commanding General's Initiatives Group and Commander of the 94th Engineer Combat Battalion in Germany. She was awarded the Defense Superior Service Medal, the Legion of Merit, and the Bronze Star. Brigadier General Burcham received a B.S. from the United States Military Academy, an M.S. from Kansas State University, and an M.S. from the Industrial College of the Armed Forces.
Leonard Forsman, Appointee for Member, Advisory Council on Historic Preservation
Leonard Forsman is Chairman of the Suquamish Tribe, a position he has held since 2005. Previously, he was a research archaeologist for Larson Anthropological/Archaeological Services in Seattle, Washington from 1992 to 2003. From 1984 to 1990, he was Director of the Suquamish Museum in Suquamish, Washington, and has served on the Museum Board of Directors since 2010. He has been Vice President of the Washington Indian Gaming Association 2010 and has been a member of the Washington State Historical Society Board since 2007, the Suquamish Tribal Cultural Cooperative Committee since 2006, and the Tribal Leaders Congress on Education since 2005. Mr. Forsman received a B.A. in Anthropology from the University of Washington and an M.A. in Historic Preservation from Goucher College.
  