
    STATEMENT OF ADMINISTRATION POLICYThis Statement Has Been Coordinated by OMB with the Appropriate Agencies
(House)(Rep. Combest (R) TX)
The Administration supports prompt congressional consideration of the intelligence authorization legislative proposal for FY 1997. However, H.R. 3259's Classified Schedule of Authorizations, as reported by the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, raises national security, budget, and management concerns. Accordingly, the Administration is prepared to work closely with the Congress to ensure that the differences noted below are resolved.
H.R. 3259 would terminate critical intelligence collection assets and make major schedule adjustments. The bill's restructuring of a carefully-designed modernization program would make it difficult for the intelligence community to meet critical operational and policy requirements.
In addition, the Administration does not believe that the ten percent increase in authorizations for appropriations for the Joint Military and Intelligence Program (JIMP) and for Tactical Intelligence and Related Activities (TIARA) is necessary. This increased funding would make it more difficult to reach the President's goal of achieving a balanced budget that provides for a strong defense without sacrificing important domestic programs.
The Administration is also concerned with the reduction proposed for the low-cost, high-payoff Environmental Intelligence and Applications Program, within the Community Management Account. The lower authorization level would limit the scientific community's use of intelligence products for environmental research and could jeopardize important environmental information exchanges with Russia.
The Administration understands that an amendment may be offered to provide for public disclosure of the intelligence budget. The President has previously endorsed the public disclosure of only the aggregate appropriation for intelligence and intelligence-related activities of the United States at the time the appropriations conference report is passed by the Congress. The Administration would support an amendment that is consistent with that position.
The Administration appreciates the financial commitment to the National Drug Intelligence Center ("NDIC"); it favors, however, revising section 104(e) to include the Administration endorsed legislative language as articulated in the April 16, 1996, joint letter from the Central Intelligence Agency and the Department of Justice.
The Administration would be concerned if section 403 of the Committee's bill resulted in any permanent restrictions on the implementation of long-needed, high priority CIA and other intelligence community human resources reform initiatives. These important reforms are central to the Administration's efforts to position the intelligence community to meet the challenges of the next century. The Administration stands ready to provide the Committee full and complete explanations and justifications between now and conference.
  