
    The following list does not include promotions of members of the Uniformed Services, nominations to the Service Academies, or nominations of Foreign Service officers.
Submitted May 24
Paul Steven Miller, of California, to be a member of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission for a term expiring July 1, 2004 (reappointment).
Withdrawn May 24
J. Brian Atwood, of the District of Columbia, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Brazil, which was sent to the Senate on January 6, 1999.
Submitted May 26
Mary Sheila Gall, of Virginia, to be a Commissioner of the Consumer Product Safety Commission for a term of 7 years from October 27, 1998 (reappointment).
A. Peter Burleigh, of California, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Career Minister, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of the Philippines and to serve concurrently and without additional compensation as Ambassador to the Republic of Palau.
Alberto J. Mora, of Florida, to be a member of the Broadcasting Board of Governors for a term expiring August 13, 2000 (reappointment).
Withdrawn May 26
Myrta K. Sale, of Maryland, to be Controller, Office of Federal Financial Management, Office of Management and Budget, vice G. Edward DeSeve, which was sent to the Senate on January 7, 1999.
Submitted May 27
J. Brady Anderson, of South Carolina, to be Administrator of the Agency for International Development, vice J. Brian Atwood.
Donald Keith Bandler, of Pennsylvania, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Cyprus.
Johnnie Carson, of Illinois, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Kenya.
Larry L. Levitan, of Maryland, to be a member of the Internal Revenue Service Oversight Board for a term of 5 years (new position).
Thomas J. Miller, of Virginia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Bosnia and Herzegovina.
Bismarck Myrick, of Virginia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Career Minister to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Liberia.
Steve H. Nickles, of North Carolina, to be a member of the Internal Revenue Service Oversight Board for a term of 4 years (new position).
M. Osman Siddique, of Virginia, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Fiji, and to serve concurrently and without additional compensation as Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Nauru, Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Kingdom of Tonga, and Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Tuvalu.
Robert M. Tobias, of Maryland, to be a member of the Internal Revenue Service Oversight Board for a term of 5 years (new position).
James W. Wetzler, of New York, to be a member of the Internal Revenue Service Oversight Board for a term of 3 years (new position).
Karen Hastie Williams, of the District of Columbia, to be a member of the Internal Revenue Service Oversight Board for a term of 3 years (new position).
Patricia A. Coan, of Colorado, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of Colorado, vice Zita A. Weinshienk, retired.
Dolly M. Gee, of California, to be U.S. District Judge for the Central District of California, vice John G. Davies, retired.
William Joseph Haynes, of Tennessee, to be U.S. District Judge for the Middle District of Tennessee, vice Thomas A. Higgins, retired.
Victor Marrero, of New York, to be U.S. District Judge for the Southern District of New York, vice Sonia Sotomayor, elevated.
Charles R. Wilson, of Florida, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the Eleventh Circuit, vice Joseph W. Hatchett, retired.
Fredric D. Woocher, of California, to be U.S. District Judge for the Central District of California.
  