
    The President today announced the appointments of the 1983-1984 White House fellows. This is the 19th class of fellows since the program began in 1964.
The 13 fellows were chosen from among 1,112 applicants and screened by 11 regional panels. The President's Commission on White House Fellowships, chaired by Vice Adm. James B. Stockdale, USN (Ret.), interviewed the 34 national finalists before recommending the 13 persons to the President. Their year of government service will begin September 1, 1983.
The 1983-1984 White House fellows are:
David L. Bere, 30, of Chicago, Ill.; brand manager, children's cereals, Quaker Oats Co., Chicago;
Elaine E. Chao, 30, of Harrison, N.Y.; lending officer, ship financing department, Citibank, N.A., New York City;
Craig P. Coy, 33, of Arlington, Va.; lieutenant commander, United States Coast Guard, student, Harvard Business School, Cambridge, Mass.;
Muliufi F. Hannemann, 28, of Honolulu, Hawaii; administrative assistant to the Governor, State of Hawaii;
W. Stephen Harty, 31, of Hastings-on-Hudson, N.Y.; account executive, Ogilvy & Mather Advertising, New York City;
James R. Kearl, 36, of Provo, Utah; associate professor of economics and law, Brigham Young University, and research associate, National Bureau of Economic Research;
Joseph R. Lupica, 28, of West Hartford, Conn.; trial attorney, Pepe & Hazard, Hartford;
James W. Muller, 30, of Anchorage, Alaska; assistant professor of political science, College of Arts and Sciences, University of Alaska;
David A. Neuman, 22, of Los Angeles, Calif.; student, communication studies department, and student regent, University of California, Los Angeles;
Travis Wood Parker, Jr., 34, of Charleston, S.C.; lieutenant commander, United States Navy, executive officer, U.S.S. Moosbrugger,
George H. Selden, Jr., 36, of Fort Leavenworth, Kans.; major, United States Army, student, Army Command and General Staff College, Fort Leavenworth;
Kenneth O. Simon, 29, of Mobile, Ala.; attorney, Nettles, Barker & Janecky; Mobile;
Oren E. Whyche, 33, of Winston-Salem, N.C.; manager of banking relations, R. J. Reynold Industries, Inc., Winston-Salem.
Fellows serve for 1 year as special assistants to the Vice President, members of the Cabinet, and the President's principal staff. In addition to the work assignment, the fellowship includes an educational program which parallels and broadens the unique experience of working at the highest levels of the Federal Government.
The program is open to U.S. citizens in the early stages of their careers and from all occupations and professions. Federal Government employees are not eligible, with the exception of career Armed Forces personnel.
Leadership, intellectual and professional ability, and commitment to community and nation are the broad criteria employed in the selection of fellows.
Applications for the 1984-1985 program will be available in July from the President's Commission on White House Fellowships, 712 Jackson Place NW., Washington, D.C. 20503.
  