
    Bradford P. Campbell, of Virginia, to be an Assistant Secretary of Labor, vice Ann Laine Combs, resigned.
Bartholomew H. Chilton, of Delaware, to be a Commissioner of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission for the remainder of the term expiring April 13, 2008, vice Frederick William Hatfield, resigned.
Cameron R. Hume, of New York, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Career Minister, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Indonesia.
Charles E. F. Millard, of New York, to be Director of the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation. (New Position)
James Palmer, of California, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for National and Community Service for a term expiring October 6, 2011, vice Donna N. Williams, term expired.
Alejandro Modesto Sanchez, of Florida, to be a Member of the Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board for a term expiring October 11, 2010. (Reappointment)
Andrew Saul, of New York, to be a Member of the Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board for a term expiring September 25, 2008. (Reappointment)
Andrew Saul, of New York, to be a Member of the Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board for a term expiring September 25, 2012. (Reappointment)
Stan Z. Soloway, of the District of Columbia, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for National and Community Service for a term expiring October 6, 2011, vice Carol Kinsley, term expired.
Jill E. Sommers, of Kansas, to be a Commissioner of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission for the remainder of the term expiring April 13, 2009, vice Sharon Brown-Hruska, resigned.
Tevi David Troy, of New York, to be Deputy Secretary of Health and Human Services, vice Alex Azar II.
Kerry N. Weems, of New Mexico, to be Administrator of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, vice Mark B. McClellan.
Gordon James Whiting, of New York, to be a Member of the Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board for a term expiring September 25, 2010. (Reappointment)
WITHDRAWAL SENT TO THE SENATE:
Jane C. Luxton, of Virginia, to be Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Oceans and Atmosphere, vice James R. Mahoney, which was sent to the Senate on January 9, 2007.
  