
    MONTPELIER, Vt. – Sen. Bernie Sanders will deliver remarks today at a rally in Montpelier. The following is an excerpt from his remarks as prepared:
"And while we're on military policy, let me say a word about foreign policy - because they are interrelated. Recently, I have been attacked in the media because of my views, actions and votes on foreign policy issues. So let me be as clear as I can be. Yes. As a young man, along with Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. and many others, I marched against the war in Vietnam, a war which ravaged my generation, which left 59,000 brave young Americans dead as well as killing many hundreds of thousands of Vietnamese. I make no apologies for having opposed that war.
"As a member of the House I helped lead the opposition to the war in Iraq. I did not believe Dick Cheney, John Bolton, President Bush and others when they told us that Iraq had weapons of mass destruction and that we had to invade that country. The War in Iraq turned out to be the worst foreign policy blunder in the modern history of our country and has led to the destabilization of that entire region, with more wars, more death and more suffering. I make no apologies for opposing the war in Iraq.
"As a member of the Senate I am proud to have been the lead sponsor on a resolution that, for the first time in 45 years, utilized the War Powers Act to get a majority vote in he House and Senate to get the United States out of the horrific war in Yemen, a war that was unauthorized and unconstitutional. Frankly, If we do not end that Saudi led war soon, hundreds of thousands of men, women and children in Yemen will die before the end of the year and millions will face starvation in the years to come. I make no apologies for helping to lead that bipartisan effort.
"And finally, right now, I am doing everything that I can to prevent Donald Trump and John Bolton from taking us into a war with Iran - a war which would be much worse than the war in Iraq and could lead, literally, to perpetual warfare in the region - a never ending war that U.S. troops would remain involved in. And I make no apologies for that either."
  