
    EDITOR'S NOTE: The following chronology of events was prepared from White House announcements and outlines public activities of the President and Mrs. Nixon during their visit to Austria, the Soviet Union, Iran, and Poland.
Saturday, May 20
The President and Mrs. Nixon boarded the Spirit of '76 at Andrews Air Force Base for the flight to Salzburg, Austria.
Arriving at Salzburg Airport at 10:30 p.m., they were greeted by Chancellor Bruno Kreisky of the Federal Republic of Austria.
Sunday, May 21
The President and Chancellor Kreisky met for discussion at Klessheim Palace.
Mrs. Nixon entertained Mrs. Kreisky at tea at Klessheim Palace.
The President and Mrs. Nixon were then guests of the Chancellor and Mrs. Kreisky at luncheon at the Kobenzl-Gaisberg Hotel.
Monday, May 22
After departure ceremonies at Salzburg Airport, the President and Mrs. Nixon flew to Moscow, where they were greeted at Vnukovo II Airport by President Podgorny, Premier Kosygin, Foreign Minister Gromyko, and Ambassador Dobrynin.
In the afternoon, the President met for more than e hours with General Secretary Brezhnev.
In the evening, the President and Mrs. Nixon were guests of honor at a dinner hosted by the Presidium of the Supreme Soviet of the U.S.S.R. and the Government of the U.S.S.R. in Granovit Hall in the Grand Kremlin Palace.
Tuesday, May 23
The President and members of the United States party met with Soviet officials in plenary session in Catherine Hall in the Grand Kremlin Palace.
In ceremonies in St. Vladimir Hall, the President and President Podgorny signed an agreement on environmental protection. Secretary Rogers and Soviet Health Minister Petrovsky then signed an agreement on medical science and public health.
The President and General Secretary Brezhnev met for 2 hours of discussion before the ceremony and for 3 additional hours later in the evening.
During the day, Mrs. Nixon visited a secondary school, toured the Moscow Metro, and had tea with Mrs. Brezhnev, Mrs. Podgorny, and wives of other Soviet officials in the Imperial Living Quarters in the Grand Kremlin Palace.
Wednesday, May 24
In the morning, the President went to the Aleksandrov Gardens to lay a wreath at the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier. He returned to the Grand Kremlin Palace for further discussions with Soviet leaders.
In afternoon ceremonies, the President and Premier Kosygin signed the space cooperation agreement and Secretary Rogers and Committee Chairman Kirillin signed the science and technology agreement.
The President then went to Chairman Brezhnev's country residence for additional discussions.
The First Lady visited the Moscow State University and the GUM department store. In the evening, she attended a performance at the New Circus.
Thursday, May 25
The President met for 2 hours with Soviet leaders, and a maritime `agreement on the prevention of incidents at sea was signed by Navy Secretary Warner and Admiral Gorshkov.
Mrs. Nixon visited the Bolshoi School of Choreography and the All-Union Fashion House for a showing of men's and women's clothing by Soviet designers.
In the evening, the President and the First Lady attended a performance of the "Swan Lake" ballet at the Bolshoi Theater.
Friday, May 26
After discussions on trade matters, a communiqué ·as issued on an agreement between Soviet leaders and President Nixon to establish a U.S.-U.S.S.R. Commercial Commission.
Mrs. Nixon, with Mrs. Brezhnev, Mrs. Gromyko, Mrs. Dobrynin, and Mrs. Jacob D. Beam, wife of the U.S. Ambassador, toured the Moscow Watch Factory and visited with workers there.
In the evening, the President and the First Lady hosted a dinner in honor of Soviet leaders at Spaso House, the American Ambassador's residence.
Following the dinner, the President and General Secretary Brezhnev signed a treaty and an interim agreement on the limitation of strategic arms in a televised ceremony in St. Vladimir Hall in the Grand Kremlin Palace.
Saturday, May 27
The President and Mrs. Nixon, with President Podgorny and other Soviet officials, flew in a Soviet aircraft to Leningrad. They visited the Piskaryev Cemetery, dedicated to those who died in the Leningrad siege during World War II, and the President laid a wreath at the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier.
After a luncheon hosted by the Executive Committee of the Leningrad Council of Workers Deputies in the Marlinsky Palace, the President and the First Lady visited Pavlovsk, formerly an Imperial summer palace, almost destroyed during World War II, and now completely restored as a museum.
They returned to Moscow in the early evening.
Sunday, May 28
The President and the First Lady attended services at the Baptist Church in Moscow.
Mrs. Nixon made a walking tour of the Grand Kremlin Palace, viewing exhibits of armor, royal regalia, and ceremonial carriages, and the Diamond Fund, a collection of precious stones, minerals, and jewelry work. She also visited two Kremlin churches.
At 8: 30 p.m., Moscow time, the President addressed the Soviet people on radio and television.
Monday, May 29
In a ceremony in St. Vladimir Hall in the Grand Kremlin Palace, the President and General Secretary Brezhnev signed the "Basic Principles of Relations Between the United States of America and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics." A joint communiqué ·as also issued.
The President and Mrs. Nixon were then honored at a reception given by the Presidium of the Supreme Soviet of the U.S.S.R. and the Government of the U.S.S.R. before flying to Kiev aboard a Soviet aircraft.
In Kiev, the Presidium of the Supreme Soviet and the Government of the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic hosted a dinner for the President and the First Lady.
Tuesday, May 30
The President went to Kiev's Park of Eternal Glory to the Soldiers of the Great Patriotic War, where he laid a wreath at the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier.
Mrs. Nixon visited the Young Pioneers' Palace, a contemporary building with classrooms, laboratories, and other facilities for youth activities.
The President and Mrs. Nixon together then visited St. Sophia's Cathedral and Museum, before flying to Tehran.
From the airport at Tehran, the President and Mrs. Nixon went to the Shahyad Monument where the Mayor of Tehran presented a key to the city.
The President and the Shah met for discussions at the Saadabad Palace.
After a reception for the diplomatic corps at the Saadabad Palace, the President and the First Lady were guests of honor at a state dinner at the Niavaran Palace.
Wednesday, May 31
The President went to the tomb of the Shah's father, 20 miles from Tehran, to lay a wreath. He returned to the Saadabad Palace for further discussions with the Shah. A joint communiqué ·as issued.
After tea with the Empress, Mrs. Nixon visited the Pahlavi Welfare Center and a children's library.
The President and Mrs. Nixon then hosted a luncheon honoring Their Imperial Majesties at the Saadabad Palace before departing for Warsaw.
They were greeted at Okecie International Airport at Warsaw by Henryk Jablonski, Chairman of the Council of State, and Prime Minister Jaroszewicz.
Driving from the airport, the President stopped to lay a wreath at the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier.
He then met with Eduard Gierek, First Secretary, Polish United Workers' Party, at the Parliament.Earlier, Secretary of State Rogers signed the Consular Convention between the United States and Poland.
In the evening, the President and Mrs. Nixon attended a state dinner at the Palace of the Council of Ministers.
Thursday, June 1
The President called on President Jablonski.
The President met for further talks with Mr. Gierek, and they issued a joint communique 
Mrs. Nixon went to the Lazienski Palace and a Chopin concert in the park near the Chopin Monument.
The President and Mrs. Nixon then hosted a luncheon at the Wilanow Palace in honor of Polish leaders.
Returning to the United States aboard the Spirit of '76, the President and Mrs. Nixon landed at Andrews Air Force Base, Md., then went by helicopter to the Capitol Grounds, and the President addressed a joint session of the Congress to report on his trip.
  