
    Pool Reports by Erin Logan, Los Angeles Times 



Sent:
Reports:




May 22, 2023 08:58

In-town Pool #1: Brunch Lid until 12pm ET
Per the WH.
Your pooler's original call time was 10am.
The only thing on POTUS' public schedule for today is a meeting with House Speaker Kevin McCarthy. The start time of this has not yet been set.


May 22, 2023 10:42

In-town Pool #2: Brunch Lid extended
Until 4:30pm ET per the WH.
ICYMI: the White House sent this updated guidance regarding POTUS' meeting with McCarthy. It's scheduled for 5:30pm.
There will be a pool spray at the top of the meeting.
In the afternoon, the President will meet with Speaker Kevin McCarthy. This meeting in the Oval Office will have an in-house pool spray at the top.
EDT
5:30 PM THE PRESIDENT meets with Speaker Kevin McCarthy Oval Office In-House Pool Spray (Gather 5:20 PM – Brady Press Briefing Room) 


May 22, 2023 17:47

In-town Pool #3: McCarthy-POTUS pool spray begins
The in-town press pool entered the Oval Office at 5:44 for the spray ahead of POTUS' meeting with House Speaker Kevin McCarthy. The meeting was scheduled for 5:30pm.
More soon.
Also, my last report was erroneously labeled in-town pool report #1. It should be labeled, in-town pool report #2. 


May 22, 2023 18:18

In-town Pool #4: Biden and McCarthy Quotes from pool spray
Here are some quotes from the spray:
Biden expressed gratitude for McCarthy's presence in the Oval Office.
"We are optimistic we may be able to make some progress," Biden said, adding that default was not an option.
Biden on the consequence of federal government not paying its bills: "The American people would have a real kick in their economic wellbeing. As a matter of fact, the rest of the world would too."
Biden said that both he and McCarthy "also agree we need to reduce the deficit." Biden said that he reduced the deficit in his first two years by 1.7 trillion dollars. "It matters. So I'm all for continuing to reduce the deficit."
Biden said he and McCarthy both discussed "the need for bipartisan agreement. We have to be in the position where we can sell it to our constituencies." Biden said "We are pretty well divided in the House, almost down the middle. And it's not any different in the Senate. So we got to get something we can sell to both sides."
Biden said there was disagreement on where to cut spending, saying he wanted to focus on tax loopholes.
We're going to still have some disagreements but I think we may be able to get where we have to go. We both know we have a significant responsibility."
McCarthy said they had a "very productive conversation yesterday."
"We do have disagreements," said the speaker adding there was an increase in revenue. But said he and the president "both agree that we need to change the trajectory, that our debt is too large…."
McCarthy said that "at the end we can find common ground, make our economy stronger, take care of this debt but more importantly get this government moving again to curb inflation, make us less dependent upon China, make our appropriations system work, when we get done."
In response, Biden said "I'm all for making appropriations work. Now that I don't have to be there to do it."
In response to a shouted question that asked if "overall spending the way to resolve this? To agree on that kind of number?" Biden replied, "Not alone. Not that alone."
The pool was in the Oval Around three minutes before being swiftly shuffled out.
https://otter.ai/u/z71QgXo3RkiqNOds24tTvNnO8NE 


May 22, 2023 18:59

In-town Pool #5: Biden-McCarthy meeting ends+Speaker en route to the sticks
From the WH:
Speaker McCarthy will head to the sticks shortly
Another from earlier:
The President is meeting with Speaker Kevin McCarthy.
AttendeesJeff Zients, Assistant to the President & Chief of Staff Shalanda Young, Director of the Office of Management and Budget Rep. Patrick McHenry (NC-10) Steve Ricchetti, Assistant to the President & Counselor to the President Louisa Terrell, Assistant to the President & Director of the Office of Legislative Affairs Dan Meyer, Chief of Staff for the Office of the Speaker of the House Brittan Specht, Senior Policy Advisor for the Office of the Speaker of the House 


May 22, 2023 19:03

In-town Pool #6: McCarthy remarks begin
At 7:00


May 22, 2023 19:21

In-town Pool #7: McCarthy sticks remarks ends
at 7:19
He was joined by North Carolina GOP Rep. Patrick McHenry, chair of the House Banking Committee.
You can listen to the remarks here on CSPAN: https://www.c-span.org/video/?528247-1/speaker-kevin-mccarthy-debt-limit... 


May 22, 2023 19:55

In-town Pool #8: LID
7:55pm
Have a wonderful evening.



\r\n
  