
    
  By the President of the United States Of America
  A Proclamation

On October 24, 1972, people around the world will celebrate United Nations Day. It is fitting that people on all parts of our planet should join on this day in honoring an international organization dedicated to the ideals of peace and justice among all nations.
The United Nations has faced great obstacles as it has worked toward the achievement of these goals. Political differences among nations have hindered its progress. Decisions by some members have prevented the United Nations from acting to stop wars. The organization's financial difficulties are also well-known.
Not so well-known, however, are many of the constructive activities of the United Nations which have achieved impressive successes over the years. The United Nations has made significant contributions, for example, by facilitating international transportation and communication, preventing the spread of diseases, and setting standards for social and technical legislation in many countries.
In recent months and years, the United Nations has also helped to establish safeguards to prevent the spread of nuclear weapons, helped to establish the rule of law in outer space and the oceans, provided technical assistance to the developing nations, promoted family planning, and worked to protect the environment. In addition, it has taken important steps to curb the traffic in addictive drugs, to protect diplomats from terrorism and travelers from hijackings, and to protect the rights of refugees and prisoners of war.
Any balance sheet of the performance of the United Nations must take these activities into account. They indicate that the United Nations and its affiliated agencies are working to build the foundations for a better world.
Now, Therefore, I, Richard Nixon, President of the United States of America, do hereby designate Tuesday, October 24, 1972, as United Nations Day. I urge the citizens of this Nation to observe that day with community programs which will promote understanding and support for the United Nations and its affiliated agencies.
I have appointed Mr. Robert 0. Anderson to be United States National Chairman for United Nations Day and, through him, I call upon State and local officials to encourage citizens' groups and agencies of communication—press, radio, television, and motion pictures—to engage in appropriate observances of United Nations Day in cooperation with the United Nations Association of the United States of America and other interested organizations.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this nineteenth day of May, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred seventy-two, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred ninety-sixth.

RICHARD NIXON
  