
    "The people of Venezuela are standing for freedom and democracy, and the United States of America is standing right by their side. -President Donald J. Trump
RESTORING DEMOCRACY AND PROSPERITY: President Donald J. Trump supports Interim President Guaido and the Venezuelan people in their fight for liberty and justice.

The United States stands with Interim President Juan Guaido, the democratically elected National Assembly, and all Venezuelans who seek to restore democracy and the rule of law.
The people of Venezuela are standing up against the illegitimate, brutal rule of Nicolas Maduro, making it clear that he must relinquish power and leave the country.
The United States calls on the Venezuelan military and security forces to protect all Venezuelans and accept Interim President Guaido's legitimacy and offer of amnesty.

The United States Government will hold accountable all those who threaten the safety of the Venezuelan people or the restoration of Venezuelan democracy.


Maduro is desperately trying to keep the people of Venezuela from hearing Interim President Guaido's message.

BROAD INTERNATIONAL SUPPORT: The United States and its regional allies and partners are supporting the effort to restore democracy and stability in Venezuela.

President Trump officially recognized Juan Guaido as Interim President in January and, since then, more than 50 countries and multilateral institutions, including members of the Lima Group and Organization of American States, have done so as well.
The United States and Interim President Guaido are firmly committed to restoring democratic order and rebuilding Venezuela's infrastructure and economy.
Democracies in the region reject Maduro's usurpation of power, offer unwavering support for the Venezuelan people, and demand the exit of foreign security and intelligence forces.
The United States will consider off-ramps for sanctioned Venezuelan officials and military officers who take concrete, measurable steps to support democracy in Venezuela.
The United States and its partners have sanctioned Maduro and over 100 of his cronies and enablers, limiting their ability to loot the assets of the Venezuelan people and cutting off their illicit sources of wealth.

The United States has also imposed major sanctions against Venezuela's state-owned oil company and major banks that have served as slush funds for Maduro and his cronies.



SEVERING MADURO'S TIES WITH CUBA AND RUSSIA: The United States denounces Cuba and Russia's continued support for the illegitimate Maduro regime.

Cuba has played a direct role in fomenting repression and violence in Venezuela.

Cuba's survival has depended on the suffocation of Venezuelan democracy and freedom.


The Maduro regime continues to rely on Cuba's playbook of repression and torture to remain in power.
We will hold the Cuban regime accountable for any violence perpetrated by the "colectivos" and Venezuela's security services against the innocent Venezuelan people.
The Trump Administration views interference from the Russian government and their support of the Maduro regime as extremely troublesome and unacceptable.

President Trump has made it clear to Russia that they must leave and renounce their support of the Maduro regime.



  