
    The United States of America and the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia dedicate themselves to strengthening their Strategic Partnership for the 21st Century, and to charting a renewed path toward a peaceful Middle East where economic development, trade, and diplomacy are hallmarks of regional and global engagement. To that end, both countries welcome a new period in their strategic partnership, built upon their continued trust and shared interests. Furthermore, the two nations plan to form a Strategic Joint Consultative Group, hosted by The President of the United States of America and The Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques The King of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, or their appropriate designees, to chart the course of this strategic partnership. The Group will meet at least once a year, alternating between our two countries, and it will review areas of cooperation.
Our two great countries share a desire to address the threats to our shared security interests. Thus, the United States of America and the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia seek to embark on new initiatives to counter violent extremist messaging, disrupt financing of terrorism, and advance defense cooperation. Violent extremists who threaten peace in the Middle East will find a growing group of regional partners arrayed against them, confronting their aggression and sowing the seeds of peace. The United States of America and the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia hope that responsible governments willing to commit to peace will build upon these efforts to realize these objectives.
A robust, integrated regional security architecture is critical to our cooperation. The United States of America and the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia intend to expand engagement with other countries in the region over the coming years and to identify new areas of cooperation. Over the course of our history, the United States of America and the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia have developed a productive partnership built upon trust, cooperation, and shared interests. We now stand together to thwart our common enemies, to strengthen the bonds between us, and to chart a path towards peace and prosperity for all.
Riyadh, 20 May 2017, 24 Shabaan 1438



DONALD J. TRUMP
President of the United States of America 

Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques
SALMAN IBN ABDULAZIZ AL-SAUD
King of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia 


  