
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

Asthma and allergic diseases are among the Nation's most common and costly health problems. More than 35 million Americans suffer from these diseases-about one out of every six persons. The American public pays approximately $4 billion per year in medical bills directly related to the treatment and diagnosis of asthma and allergic diseases, and another $2 billion per year in indirect social costs. Absenteeism in the schools and in the work place resulting from these diseases has an enormous effect on the Nation.
Although modern medical treatments of asthma and allergic disorders have reduced the danger of death considerably, thousands of individuals still die each year from asthma—a disease that affects children more often than adults.
In order to improve the quality of life for those who suffer from asthma and allergic diseases, research scientists supported by the National Institutes of Health (NIH) are acquiring vital knowledge of these disorders. These scientists are optimistic that information gained through their research will provide means to develop new techniques for diagnosing, treating, and possibly preventing these debilitating diseases.
In addition, the NIH works closely with the Asthma and Allergy Foundation of America, as well as with other volunteer and professional health groups, to bring to the attention of health care professionals and the public current research results that can be translated into improved health care.
To focus public and professional attention on the seriousness of asthma and allergic diseases, the Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 83, has designated the week of May 5, 1985, through May 11, 1985, as "National Asthma and Allergy Awareness Week" and authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of that week.
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the week beginning May 5, 1985, through May 11, 1985, as National Asthma and Allergy Awareness Week. I call upon all government agencies, health organizations, communications media, and the people of the United States to observe this week with appropriate ceremonies and activities.
In Witness Whereof I have hereunto set my hand this tenth day of May, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-five, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and ninth.

RONALD REAGAN
  