
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate three individuals to serve in his Administration:
The President intends to nominate Thomas P. D'Agostino, of Maryland, to be Under Secretary for Nuclear Security (Administrator for Nuclear Security, National Nuclear Security Administration) at the Department of Energy. Mr. D'Agostino currently serves as Acting Under Secretary of Nuclear Security as well as Deputy Administrator for Defense Programs at the National Nuclear Security Administration at the Department of Energy. Prior to this, he served as Assistant Deputy Administrator for Program Integration for Defense Programs at the National Nuclear Security Administration at the Department of Energy. Mr. D'Agostino retired with the rank of Captain from the United States Naval Reserves. Mr. D'Agostino received his bachelor's degree from the United States Naval Academy and his master's degrees from Johns Hopkins University and the Naval War College.
The President intends to nominate Charles W. Grim, of Oklahoma, to be Director of the Indian Health Service for the Public Health Service at the Department of Health and Human Services for an additional four-year term. Prior to serving as the Director of the Indian Health Service, he served as Director of the Okalahoma City Area Indian Health Service. Earlier in his career, he served as Director of the Office of Health Programs at the Phoenix Area Indian Health Service. Dr. Grim received his bachelor's degree and DDS from the University of Oklahoma and his MHSA from the University of Michigan.
The President intends to nominate Eric G. John, of Indiana, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Kingdom of Thailand. Mr. John, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, currently serves as Deputy Assistant Secretary for the Bureau of East Asian and Pacific Affairs at the Department of State. Prior to this, he served as Political Minister Counselor at the United States Embassy in Seoul. Earlier in his career, he served as Deputy Principal Officer of the Consulate General in Ho Chi Minh City. Mr. John received his bachelor's degree from Georgetown University and his master's degree from the National War College.
  