
    To the Senate of the United States:
I am pleased to transmit the Convention on Future Multilateral Cooperation in the Northwest Atlantic Fisheries for advice and consent to accession. The Convention was signed in Ottawa on October 24, 1978, by nine parties, not including the United States, and subsequently entered into force on January 1, 1979.
The Convention creates a successor organization to the International Commission for the Northwest Atlantic Fisheries (ICNAF) established by the International Convention for the Northwest Atlantic Fisheries, done at Washington, February 8, 1949 (the ICNAF Convention). The United States withdrew from the ICNAF Convention effective December 31, 1976, because it was inconsistent in several ways with the establishment of the extended fishery management authority of the United States under the Fishery Conservation and Management Act of 1976. The United States subsequently participated in the negotiation of the successor Convention. Its provisions are completely consistent with the provisions of the Act.
Under this Convention, the United States will receive and provide scientific data, participate in the planning and coordination of research activities, and have available a multilateral scientific council to review scientific studies and hypotheses pertaining to fish stocks in the Convention Area. United States adherence to the Convention will facilitate continuity of the data base established and accumulated over a period of 27 years under the ICNAF Convention. In addition, the United States will be able, if desirable, to request and receive scientific advice related to fisheries subject to its exclusive management jurisdiction. Finally, the United States will have an opportunity for membership in the Fisheries Commission, the body responsible for conservation and management of fisheries in the Regulatory Area, defined as the part of the convention area beyond the fishery conservation zones of the Contracting Parties, should its vessels wish to participate in such fisheries.
I transmit also for the information of the Senate the report of the Secretary of State with respect to the Convention.
I urge the Senate to act favorably at an early date on this Convention.
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
May 3, 1979.
  