
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

Travel and tourism, whether for business or pleasure, not only hold tremendous economic benefits for our Nation but also offer valuable educational opportunities for visitor and host alike. Each year, the millions of Americans and foreigners who travel throughout the United States learn more about its history and culture and more about one another.
The United States boasts an abundance of fascinating natural and man-made attractions, as well as a variety of fun-filled recreational activities and cultural events. Across the country, historic landmarks trace the course of our national journey, giving visitors a deeper understanding of the people and principles that have shaped this great land of liberty and opportunity.
With all these wonders to explore, and with its wide range of quality services and accommodations, the United States has become a leading destination for world travelers. Today it continues to be the world's best buy for the travel dollar.
The American travel and tourism industry, which is composed almost entirely of small businesses, is the Nation's largest export earner. Last year, foreign travelers spent billions of dollars visiting the United States. The industry is also our second largest employer and our third largest retail industry. Travel and tourism directly or indirectly support millions of jobs throughout the United States, contributing to the economic advancement of entire communities, as well as that of individuals and their families.
During National Tourism Week, we recognize those Americans who earn their livelihood in thge travel and tourism industry and gratefully acknowledge their contributions to our Nation's economy. We also recognize the productive partnership among members of the travel and tourism industry, labor, and local, State, and Federal government officials. Most important, perhaps, National Tourism Week reminds us of the many rewards of travel and tourism, especially its role in fostering personal friendships and international understanding and cooperation.
The Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 153, has designated the week beginning on the second Sunday in May 1990 as "National Tourism Week" and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of that week.
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the week beginning May 13, 1990, and ending May 19, 1990, as National Tourism Week. I invite the people of the United States to observe the week with appropriate programs, ceremonies, and activities.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this third day of May, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fourteenth.

GEORGE BUSH
  