
    To the Congress of the United States:
On-the-job protection of American workers continues as a high priority goal in this Administration's effort to improve the quality of life for all Americans.
The Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970, which I signed into law on December 29, 1970, is a major step towards improving workplace conditions. As I said at that time, this legislation is one of the most important measures ever taken in behalf of those American workers who are covered by the provisions of the act.
The accompanying President's Report on Occupational Safety and Health describes what has been done to implement the act during the first year of its operation, and it also indicates the magnitude and direction of the task ahead. The report examines the responsibilities of the Department of Labor for setting safety and health standards, and for gaining compliance with those standards. Another part of the report explores the activities of the Department of Health, Education, and Welfare in research and training.
Like many problems that we face today, the improvement of job safety and health cannot be accomplished by simply pressing a button. If we are to reduce the injuries, the illnesses, and the deaths connected with working conditions, we must take determined actions: we must increase the number of people who are trained in health and safety techniques; knowledge of the causes of accidents and illnesses must be developed; this knowledge must be translated into effective standards; employers and employees require adequate instructions; and standards must be enforced through energetic and rigorous inspection programs.
Above all else, if we are to be successful, the full collaboration of private industry, the States and the employees must be enlisted.
The Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970 recognizes the need of reinforcing the role of the States in resolving our national problems. As a consequence, the implementation of the act has emphasized cooperative programs with State Governments. The involvement of the States in these programs has been gratifying. It is a testimonial to the flexibility and vigour of our Federal-State system that the fifty States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, Guam and the Virgin Islands have all expressed a willingness to develop plans for setting and enforcing standards that are at least on a par with the Federal requirements fixed by the act.
In addition, many States are actually aiding the Federal Government by gathering superior statistical data that will provide a basis for charting the future direction of safety and health programs. Many States, too, are now assisting the Federal Government in the enforcement of standards.
In short, I feel that the essential groundwork has been laid for genuine progress in on-the-job safety and health. This report describes the structures that have been set in place, and it outlines how the building process will continue.
RICHARD NIXON
THE WHITE HOUSE,
May 22, 1972.
  