
    WASHINGTON, DC – Today, President Obama nominated Dennis J. Erby to serve as U.S. Marshal for the Northern District of Mississippi and Edward M. Spooner to serve as U.S. Marshal for the Northern District of Florida.
"Dennis J. Erby and Edward M. Spooner have dedicated their career to protecting their fellow citizens," said President Obama. "They have displayed courage and persistence in the pursuit of justice, and I am honored to nominate them today to continue their selfless work on behalf of the people of Mississippi and Florida as U.S. Marshals."
US MARSHALS
Dennis J. Erby: Nominee for United States Marshal for the Northern District of Mississippi
Dennis J. Erby currently serves as a Supplemental Compliance Monitor for the Mississippi Department of Public Safety and Planning. He spent the majority of his law enforcement career with the Mississippi State Highway Patrol where he entered as a patrolman in 1978 and rose through the ranks to Lieutenant. Mr. Erby served in the Mississippi National Guard from 1974 to 1980. He holds a bachelor's degree from Mississippi State University and is a graduate of the FBI National Academy.
Edward M. Spooner: Nominee for United States Marshal for the Northern District of Florida
Edward Spooner, a life-long Florida resident, began his law enforcement career as an intern with the Florida Highway Patrol in 1973. He served as a patrol and training officer with the Tallahassee Police Department from 1973 to 1977. Mr. Spooner trained law enforcement officers as an instructor at the Pat Thomas Law Enforcement Academy from 1977 to 1979. In 1979, he was named the Director of Public Safety for Quincy, Florida, a position he held until 1991. Mr. Spooner has served on the Florida Parole Commission from 1991 to 1998, as Chief Deputy of the Gadsden County Sheriff's Office from 1998 to 2004, and as Sheriff of Okaloosa County from 2009 to 2010. He currently serves as an Assistant Special Agent in Charge within the Florida Department of Law Enforcement.
  