
    President Bush to Nominate Four Individuals and Appoint 15 to Serve in His Administration
President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate four individuals and his intention to appoint 15 individuals to serve in his administration.
The President intends to nominate Kim R. Holmes to be Assistant Secretary of State for International Organizations. Holmes is presently the Vice President and Director of the Kathryn and Shelby Cullum Davis Institute for International Studies at the Heritage Foundation. Holmes joined the Heritage Foundation in 1985, as a Policy Analyst. He then was named Deputy Director of Foreign and Defense Policy Studies, and in 1988, he was named the Director of Foreign Policy and Defense Policy Studies. Holmes earned a bachelor's degree from the University of Central Florida, and he earned both a Master's degree and Ph.D. from Georgetown University.
The President intends to nominate Diana E. Furchtgott-Roth to be a Director of the Federal Housing Finance Board for the remainder of a seven-year term expiring February 27, 2004. She has served as Chief of Staff at the Council of Economic Advisors since March 2001, and from 1993 to 2001, she was a Resident Fellow and Assistant to the President at the American Enterprise Institute. Furchtgott-Roth served in the White House from 1991 to 1993, first as Associate Director and Deputy Executive Secretary of the Domestic Policy Council, and then as Associate Director of the Office of Policy Planning. She holds a bachelor's degree from Swarthmore College and a Master's degree from Brasenose College of Oxford University.
The President intends to nominate Randall Anderson to be United States Marshal for the District of Utah. Anderson has served as U.S. Marshall since 1998, and he previously served as the Captain of Detectives with the Salt Lake City Sheriff's Office. He received a bachelor's degree from Weber State University and a Master's degree from Utah State University.
The President intends to nominate Armando J. Bucelo to serve as a Member of the Board of Directors of the Securities Investor Protection Corporation for a term expiring December 31, 2002, and upon confirmation, designate Vice Chairman.
The President intends to appoint Peter McPherson to be a Member of the Board for International Food and Agriculture Development for the remainder of a four-year term expiring July 28, 2005, and upon appointment, designate Chairman. McPherson has served as President of Michigan State University since 1993. His past government service includes service as Deputy Secretary of the Treasury from 1987 to 1989, Administrator of the Agency for International Development from 1981 to 1987, and Chairman of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation from 1981 to 1987.
The President intends to appoint the following seven individuals to serve as Members of the Advisory Committee on the Arts, John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts:

  Rosemary Ramirez Barbour of Mississippi
  Joan Stevens Eller of Arizona
  Thomas Miller Ferguson of Florida
  Donna S. Hall of Kentucky
  Shenikwa D. Nowlin of Texas
  James Henderson Shacklett, III of Pennsylvania
  Joseph P. Watkins of Pennsylvania

The President intends to appoint the following seven individuals to serve as Members of the Commission on Presidential Scholars:

  Scott Allen Bundgaard of Arizona
  Jeanne Rolfe Ferst of Georgia
  Michael Anthony Galiazzo of Maryland
  Robert Earl Moss of the District of Columbia
  John Frederick Mueller of Wyoming
  Laura Emberton Owens of Kentucky
  Dorothy Jean Potter of West Virginia

  