
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
May 9
In the morning, the President traveled to Williamsburg, VA, where he participated in a Senate Democratic issues conference at the Kingsmill Resort Convention Center.
In the evening, the President traveled to Boston, MA, and he later returned to Washington, DC, arriving after midnight.
May 11
The President announced his intention to nominate Cynthia P. Schneider to be Ambassador to The Netherlands.
The President announced his intention to nominate Paul L. Cejas to be Ambassador to Belgium.
The President announced his intention to appoint Michael Hoog and Douglas A. Wilson as members of the American Heritage Rivers Initiative Advisory Committee.
The White House announced that Prime Minister Lionel Jospin of France will make a working visit to the White House on June 18.
May 12
In the morning, the President met with Representatives Martin T. Meehan and Christopher Shays in the Oval Office to discuss campaign finance reform legislation. Later, the President met with Crown Prince Khalifa bin Zayid of the United Arab Emirates in the Oval Office.
In the afternoon, the President traveled to Berlin, Germany, arriving after midnight.
May 13
In the afternoon, the President traveled to Potsdam, Germany, where he met with Chancellor Helmut Kohl of Germany in the Voltaire Room of Sans Souci Palace. Later, he had a working luncheon with Chancellor Kohl in the Marble Room of the palace.
Later in the afternoon, the President visited the gravesite of Frederick the Great at Sans Souci Palace. The President then returned to Berlin.
In the evening, the President met with opposition leader Gerhardt Schroeder in Kleiner Saal at Schauspielhaus.
The President announced his intention to nominate Jacob J. Lew to be Director of the Office of Management and Budget.
May 14
In the afternoon, the President traveled to Frankfurt, Germany, where he greeted U.S. military personnel. He then traveled to Eisenach, Germany.
In the evening, the President traveled to Birmingham, United Kingdom.
May 15
In the evening, the President and Hillary Clinton attended the opening reception for the G-8 summit in the Banqueting Hall of the Council House. Later, they attended a dinner for G-8 leaders in the Edwardian Tea Room at the Birmingham Museum and Art Gallery.
  