
    Pool Reports by Kevin Frey, Spectrum News 1 



Sent:
Reports:




May 3, 2023 16:44

VP Supplemental Pool #1
Good afternoon - VP is en route to The George Washington Univ, where she will participate in a "moderated conversation" at the White House's Asian American and Native Hawaiian Pacific Islander forum.
Pool boarded van at WH at 4:17
Pooler did not see VP when she got into her vehicle. Motorcade departed WH at 4:43
The conversation is set to begin around 5:15 and will be broadcast live here: whitehouse.gov/live
More on the forum, which is an all day event with breakout sessions, can be found here: https://smithsonianapa.org/white-house-forum-asian-american-native-hawai... 


May 3, 2023 17:09

VP Supplemental Pool #2
After a (very) brief motorcade ride, VP arrived at GW's Lisner Auditorium around 4:46. Pooler saw several students along the street recording video as the motorcade navigated campus.
Highlights of the VP's remarks to come in next pool report. In the meantime, a White House official passes along the following on background:
Today at 5:15 pm ET, the Vice President will participate in a moderated conversation with Jerry Won, host of the Dear Asian American podcast and actress and producer Poorna Jagannathan to close out the White House Forum on Asian Americans, Native Hawaiians, and Pacific Islanders. During this moderated conversation, the Vice President will discuss her Asian American heritage, the importance of AA and NHPI representation in the Biden-Harris Administration, the rise of anti – Asian hate and racism in America, and the Biden-Harris Administration's commitment to addressing issues affecting the AA and NHPI community. This moderated conversation will be livestreamed on WhiteHouse.gov/live. 
The White House Forum on Asian Americans, Native Hawaiians, and Pacific Islanders will center around the theme of Visible Together and will bring together community leaders, organizations, elected officials, business leaders, and Commissioners of the President's Advisory Council for the White House Initiative on Asian American, Native Hawaiians, and Pacific Islanders.
Actions of the Administration • On September 15, 2022, the White House brought together external stakeholders for the United We Stand summit to address the effects of hate-motivated violence. • On May 20, 2021, the President signed the COVID-19 Hate Crimes Act, instructing DOJ to review hate crimes related to COVID-19, establish an online reporting database, and make hate crime reporting more accessible at the state and local government level, providing language support for many AA and NHPI communities and communities of color.  • On January 26, 2021, President Biden issued a Presidential Memorandum on Racism, Xenophobia, and Intolerance AA and NHPI Communities, establishing an official policy of the Administration to stand up against anti-Asian racism, xenophobia, nativism, and bias.  • On January 20, 2021, President Biden signed the Executive Order on Advancing Racial Equity and Support for Underserved Communities, a whole-of-government initiative to advance racial equity and root out systemic racism from federal policies.
The Vice President's Leadership  • On January 25, 2023, the Vice President traveled to Monterey Park, California, to pay her respects at the memorial at Star Dance Studio following the mass shooting.  • On September 15, 2022, Vice President Harris opened the United We Stand Summit against hate-fueled violence at the White House. • On August 8, 2021, the President and Vice President met with AA and NHPI Civil Rights Leaders. • On May 20, 2021, the Vice President introduced the President ahead of signing new hate crimes law that aims to address rising attacks on Asian American community members. • On March 19, 2021, the President and Vice President visited Atlanta to condemn attacks on AA and NHPI communities in the aftermath of a White man killing predominately Asian women; 6 of 8 victims were Asian women. 


May 3, 2023 17:53

VP Supplemental Pool #3
VP took the stage at Lisner Auditorium at The George Washington University at 5:15, met with standing ovation and cheers. Moderator asked them to raise the house lights so the VP could see the crowd.
Stage was set with three chairs. Jerry Won, host of the Dear Asian American podcast and actress, and producer Poorna Jagannathan moderated the conversation. VP spoke with a handheld mic.
Conversation lasted until 5:50pm.
What follows are highlights from the conversation:
The VP begins by telling the story of her mother going to college in the US. "My grandfather was a progressive dude."
Of her mother, VP Harris said, "She had a unique ability to infuse in us a sense of pride. And a sense of understanding that we should not let anyone define our identity … I was acutely aware of how she would be treated. People would make certain assumptions about the character and the intelligence of someone else."
On representation in leadership, she said, "As part of the origin story of a lot of immigrants – [there's] a deep knowledge and understanding of the power of government, and the power of democracy." "You cannot expect other people to fight for your rights."
On abortion, VP argues restrictions have a severe impact on people of color, immigrants, those with language barriers. "Where can they go … to be in a safe place to face one of the most personal issues that a person could face?" Urges people to vote for candidates who support voting rights.
VP transitioned then to culture war issues, invoking Florida directly. Says, "Can you imagine, in this year of our Lord 2023, book bans? Really, what?" "There are attempts, right before our eyes, to roll back all of the hard-won freedoms we have collectively fought for. And this is a time for people to stand and be very active."
On gun reforms, VP calls for enhanced background checks, red flag laws, ban on assault weapons. She says kids should be expandng their minds at school, and "instead they're sitting there learning how to hide in the closet and be quiet if tere's an active shooter in their classroom." Says she spoke to a child who doesn't like going to a certain class because there's no closet.
Asked for advice, the VP quotes her mom saying, "Kamala, you may be the first to do many things. Make sure you are not the last." Tells crowd, "You are not alone."
Quotes may be imperfect. Otter recording of the conversation can be found here:https://otter.ai/u/QcqZRqpHqymo3uyPr447hxJ9R9U?utm_source=copy_url 


May 3, 2023 18:38

VP Supplemental Pool #4 - OTR small biz stop
VP departed GW at 5:55, en route to an unannounced stop in the Brightwood Park neighborhood of DC.
After weaving around DC's rush hour traffic, motorcade arrived at HR (Home Rule) Records at 6:08.
VP was greeted by owner Charvis Campbell, who showed her around. She asked to see the reggae selection. She picked out a Charles Mingus, Jr. record, a recording of Porgy and Bess, and Everybody Loves the Sunshine by Roy Ayers - the last she described as one of her favorite albums of all time.
While in the shop, she also spoke briefly with a local kid and her father (Esmé and Zach Pleasant) about school.
VP departed the store around 6:21, stopping to show off to the press the albums she got. VP did not respond to a shouted question about the debt ceiling and whether she's concerned.
At this point, pool split off from the motorcade, which is headed to the VP's residence.
Passed along on background from a White House official:

In celebration of National Small Business Week the Vice President made an unscheduled stop at Home Rule "HR" Records in NW Washington D.C. neighborhood of Brightwood Park. HR Records specializes in jazz, funk, soul, and R&B and is one of only 37 black-owned record stores in the country. 
Charvis Campbell opened HR Records in March 2018 and is a fellow Howard alum

 Also apologies re: the otter recording of the AAPI event … never turned it off when leaving GW. So you can now treat yourself to 10 mins of motorcade sirens.
Pool now en route back to White House. Signing off.



  