
    Chapel Hill, North Carolina – As Senator John Edwards' campaign continues to gain support from Democratic leaders in every part of the country, today the campaign announced the support of prominent leaders in Wisconsin, including State Treasurer Dawn Marie Sass, Madison Mayor Dave Cieslewicz and former Governor Tony Earl. In March, Congressman David Obey, Chairman of the House Appropriations Committee, endorsed Edwards for President.
State Treasurer Dawn Marie Sass said, "As the new State Treasurer of Wisconsin, I am supporting John Edwards for President. John Edwards understands that all Americans must take responsibility for changing our country, and he exhibits the leadership and the plan to help save our middle class, develop better health care for all citizens, and improve our standing in the world. As a lifelong union member dedicated to public service, I know that John Edwards has spent much of his career as a champion for workers' rights and fighting the scourge of poverty among our working class citizens."
"I am glad to have the chance to support John Edwards for president again, as I did in 2004," said Madison Mayor Dave Cieslewicz. "The issues he raised in his campaign four years ago, especially the issue of poverty, are even more pressing today. John Edwards will restore our moral leadership in the world and lead a grassroots movement to lead our nation forward at this critical time in our history."
Former Governor Tony Earl endorsed Edwards saying, "John Edwards understands the concerns of ordinary people and is best prepared to address them. In addition he is our most electable candidate."
The Wisconsin Democratic leaders endorsing Edwards for President are:
 

Congressman David Obey, Chairman of the House Appropriation Committee
State Treasurer Dawn Marie Sass
Madison Mayor Dave Cieslewicz
Former Governor Tony Earl
Public Service Commissioner Mark Meyer
State Senator Russ Decker, Co-Chair of the Committee on Joint Finance
State Senator Jon Erpenbach
State Senator Bob Jauch
State Senator John Lehman
State Senator Bob Wirch
State Representative Jennifer Shilling
State Representative David Travis, Former Majority Leader
State Representative Amy Sue Vruwink
State Representative Sondy Pope-Roberts
State Representative Donna Seidel
State Representative Mike Sheridan, UAW Local 95 President* (for identification purposes only)
Dottie LeClair, 2nd Vice Chair of State Democratic Party of Wisconsin

  