
    Well, Shalim, thank you very much for singing the national anthem. Welcome to baseball at the White House. We're glad you all are here.
I want to thank the commissioner of tee-ball at the White House this year, one of the alltime great baseball players, one of the alltime great men, Mr. Cal Ripken.
I want to—I want to welcome the teams that are going to play today on the opening day of the 2002 season. The Uniondale Little League Sluggers and all their moms and dads and the coaches—thank you all very much. And as well, we want to thank the 6 and 11 Little League Sluggers from Trenton, New Jersey. And I want to thank your moms and dads for coming too. Welcome.
We've also got some really fine former baseball players with us—Tony Perez, Mr. Hall of Fame. As well, we've got "Cha Cha" Orlando Cepeda.
I want to thank the other coach on the field, a member of my Cabinet, Senor Mel Martinez.
Erubiel Durazo, from the world champion Arizona Diamondbacks, is with us today as well. Erubiel, mucho gusto.
As well, there's a great new movie out called "The Rookie." He is—this guy's a Texan. He's a great story. I hope you go see the movie. But the man who Dennis Quaid plays in the movie is with us today, the actual baseball player, Jim Morris. Thank you for coming, Jim.
As well, a former Texas Ranger, Billy Ripken—where are you, Billy? Hi, Billy.
I do want to thank our announcers, Ron Eisen and Alvaro Martin, for being here with us. Thank you guys very much for coming.
This guy doesn't play baseball, but he is a Washington Redskins star, "Big Daddy" Wilkinson. Thank you for coming. Welcome.
And now, before we begin, I'd like for the players to join me in reciting the Little League pledge. Are you ready?
"I trust in God. I love my country and will respect its laws. I will play fair and strive to win. But win or lose, I will always do my best."
Are you ready?
And now, it is my honor to put the first ball on the tee to kick off tee-ball at the White House.
[The President placed the ball on the tee.]
Play ball!
  