
    The President today has announced his intention to appoint the following individuals to be members of the United States Holocaust Memorial Council for terms of 5 years expiring January 15, 1991:
Elie Wiesel, of New York. This is a reappointment. The President intends to appoint him as Chairperson for a term of 5 years upon appointment. Dr. Wiesel is currently an Andrew W. Mellon professor of the humanities at Boston University. Dr. Wiesel was educated at the Sorbonne and holds a number of honorary degrees from universities and colleges throughout the world. He is married, has two children, and resides in New York, NY. Dr. Wiesel was born September 30, 1928, in Sighet, Romania.
Jack Abramoff of California. He would succeed Tibor Baranski. Mr. Abramoff is currently vice president of Boardwalk & Associates in Washington, DC. He graduated from Brandeis University (B.A., 1981) and Georgetown University (J.D., 1986). Mr. Abramoff resides in Silver Spring, MD, and he was born February 28, 1958, in Atlantic City, NJ.
Sylvia K. Hassenfeld, of Florida. She would succeed Mark Talisman. Mrs. Hassenfeld is currently president of the Hassenfeld Foundation of Hasbro Industries in Pawtucket, RI. She graduated from Cedar Crest College (B.A., 1944). Mrs. Hassenfeld's husband is deceased. She has three children and resides in New York, NY. She was born September 19, 1920, in Philadelphia, PA.
Marvin G. Kelfer, of Texas. He would succeed Hyman Bookbinder. Mr. Kelfer is currently president and chairman of the board of Travis Savings & Loan Association in San Antonio, TX. He graduated from the University of Texas at Austin (B.B.A., 1950) and St. Mary's School of Law (LL.B., 1960). Mr. Kelfer is married, has three children, and resides in San Antonio, TX. He was born March 6, 1930, in Chicago, IL.
Isaac Neuman, of Illinois. He would succeed Victor Borge. Rabbi Neuman is at Sinai Temple in Champaign, IL. He graduated from the University of Cincinnati (B.A., 1960) and Hebrew Union College (M.A., 1960; B.D., 1985). Rabbi Neuman has two children, resides in Champaign, and was born December 4, 1927, in Zdunska-Wola, Poland.
Seymour Siegel, of New York. He would succeed Joseph Asher. Dr. Siegel is currently Ralph Simon professor of ethics and theology at the Jewish Theological Seminary in New York. He graduated from the University of Chicago (B.A., 1958) and the Jewish Theological Seminary (M.A., 1951; Ph.D., 1960).
The President also announced his intention to appoint:
William J. Lowenberg, of California, to be Vice Chairperson of the U.S. Holocaust Memorial Council for a term of 4 years.
Richard Krieger, to be Executive Director of the U.S. Holocaust Memorial Council. He would succeed Seymour Siegel.
  