
    WASHINGTON – Today, President Joe Biden announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to serve as key leaders in his administration:

Sean Patrick Maloney, Nominee for Representative of the United States of America to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, with rank of Ambassador
Jack A. Markell, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary to the Italian Republic and the Republic of San Marino

Sean Patrick Maloney, Nominee for Representative of the United States of America to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, with rank of AmbassadorSean Patrick Maloney was elected five times to represent New York's 18th congressional district in the United States House of Representatives, and served from 2013 to 2023. While in Congress, Representative Maloney chaired both the Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation Subcommittee of the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure as well as the Commodity Markets, Digital Assets, and Rural Development Subcommittee of the House Committee on Agriculture. He served as a member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence and was elected by his colleagues to House leadership in 2020. He is the author of more than 40 pieces of legislation that have become law. Prior to serving in Congress, Maloney served as President Clinton's White House Staff Secretary, helped found a financial services software company, and worked as a partner at two global law firms.
Raised in Hanover, New Hampshire, as the youngest of six siblings, Maloney attended public elementary and high schools before earning undergraduate and law degrees from the University of Virginia. He worked as a volunteer with the Jesuits in rural Peru between college and law school from 1988 to 1989.
He is the first openly LGBT person ever elected to Congress from New York and the highest ranking openly LGBT person ever to serve in the House. He and his husband, Randy Florke, recently celebrated their 30th anniversary and have raised three children together.
Jack A. Markell, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary to the Italian Republic and the Republic of San MarinoJack A. Markell, a former Governor and State Treasurer of Delaware, is currently the Representative of the United States of America to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, with the rank of Ambassador. Previously, he served as the White House Coordinator of Operation Allies Welcome. Before that, he was the President of Jack Markell Consulting, LLC. He is a former Senior Vice President of Comcast Corporation and Nextel Communications. He also served as Chair of the National Governors Association, President of the Council of State Governments, and Chair of the Democratic Governors Association. Markell earned his Bachelor's degree in Development Studies and Economics at Brown University and his M.B.A. at the University of Chicago.
  