
    JST (local time)
TOKYO, JAPAN – First Lady Melania Trump accompanied her husband to Tokyo, Japan for a state visit between the two nations. Upon arrival into Haneda Airport, the First Lady and the President were met by leadership from the Japanese Delegation.
On Sunday morning, May 26, Mrs. Trump accompanied Mrs. Abe, the spouse of Japan's Prime Minister, on a tour of the teamLab Borderless Exhibit at the Mori Building Digital Art Museum in Tokyo. Mrs. Trump is the first United States First Lady to visit the colorful and interactive museum. The First Lady was greeted by Mrs. Abe, Mrs. Yoshiko Mori, Chairperson of Mori Museum, and Mr. Michiho Kishi, Head of Art and Cultural Business Promotion at the Mori Arts Center & teamLab Exhibit Tour Guide. The tour included stops into several of the exhibits – including the flower room, waterfall room, crystal room, cave room, lamp room, and landscape exhibit– each made up of light shows and interactive demonstrations. The tour ended at the digital aquarium where children participated in drawing sea animals and scanning them into a computer that projected them onto the walls – making a child's imagination come alive. Mrs. Trump and Mrs. Abe were met by Mrs. Hagerty, spouse of the United States Ambassador to Japan, and Mrs. Sugiyama, spouse of the Japanese Ambassador to the United States, in the aquarium where they joined the children in designing sea creature creations. Before departing the museum, Mrs. Trump, Mrs. Abe, Mrs. Hagerty, and Mrs. Sugiyama gathered for tea in the Tea House exhibit.
"Thank you to the Mori Building Digital Art Museum for letting us enjoy your creative exhibits," said First Lady Melania Trump. "I loved seeing children's creations come to life on the walls. Mrs. Abe is a wonderful host and it is great to be back in Tokyo, exploring more of this wonderful city."
In the evening, the First Lady and the President accompanied Prime Minister Abe and Mrs. Abe to a sumo wrestling championship match at the Ryogoku-Kokuikan Stadium. The evening concluded with a private dinner between the First Lady, the President, the Prime Minister, and Mrs. Abe at Inayaka East.
  