
    Members of Congress 
Speaker of the House Paul Ryan (R-WI): "From the beginning, the Obama-era Iran Deal was deeply flawed. Iran's hostile actions since its signing have only reaffirmed that it remains dedicated to sowing instability in the region. The president's announcement today is a strong statement that we can and must do better."
Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-KY): "The Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action represented a deeply flawed agreement which President Trump has determined is not in the national security interests of the United States ... I share the objective and commitment made by the President that Iran should never be able to acquire or develop a nuclear weapon."
House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy (R-CA): "The Iran Deal is a bad deal. Through his action today, President Trump sent a strong signal to Iran and other foreign adversaries that nuclear proliferation has consequences ... I support smart diplomacy to keep America safe, but we must oppose bad deals that give our enemies a pathway to a nuclear bomb, which is why I applaud the President's actions."
Sen. Richard Shelby (R-AL): "I was vehemently opposed to the #Iran nuclear deal from the start. It was a terrible idea for the United States & our allies then, and time has not improved it. #JCPOA"
Sen. Tom Cotton (R-AR): "The Iran nuclear deal, terribly flawed from the beginning, at best only delayed Iran from getting the bomb while handing over hundreds of billions in sanctions relief, money that Iran uses to support terrorism and build long-range missiles. Tough sanctions are a first step toward rolling back Iran's campaign of terror, but it won't be the last."
Sen. Cory Gardner (R-CO): "I think the Iran deal was flawed from the beginning. The fact is the Iran deal guaranteed a nuclear future for Iran — a patient pathway to a nuclear bomb."
Sen. Marco Rubio (R-FL): "I'm glad that President Trump decided today to withdraw from the flawed Iran nuclear deal and impose crippling economic and financial sanctions against the Iranian regime. This agreement was so bad that bipartisan majorities in both chambers of Congress voted against it after the last Administration refused to submit it as a legally-binding treaty under the Constitution. The deal enriched Iranian regime and empowered it to destabilize the Middle East."
Sen. David Perdue (R-GA): "President Trump is right to take strong action against Iran ... Earlier this year, I supported the President's decision to decertify. It's clearly time to hold Iran accountable for their dangerous behavior. President Trump is fully equipped to reengage with our allies across the globe, while putting America's national security interests first."
Sen. Mike Crapo (R-ID): "I support the President's decision on the #IranDeal. The President has rightly noted what many have long pointed out – the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action was poorly-negotiated and allowed Iran to step up its dangerous activities in the Middle East."
Sen. Todd Young (R-IN): "The Iran nuclear agreement has been fundamentally flawed from the beginning—enabling the world's leading state sponsor of terrorism to obtain sanctions relief without completely dismantling its nuclear program."
Sen. Joni Ernst (R-IA): "I am encouraged by the President's decision to withdraw from the JCPOA today, and have full confidence that the President and Secretary Pompeo will work with Congress to develop a comprehensive strategy that permanently addresses the threat that a nuclear-capable Iran poses to U.S. and international security."
Sen. Cindy Hyde-Smith (R-MS): "President Trump is right to get out of the Iran Nuclear Deal and impose economic sanctions in order to force a more legitimate agreement to fight the threat Iran poses to our interests, our allies, and peace in the region.  The Obama agreement allowed the regime in Tehran to benefit economically, while it maintained a nuclear program, supported global terrorism, and threatened the survival of Israel. I commend the President for his bold action."
Sen. Steve Daines (R-MT): "This disastrous deal opened the door for the world's leading state sponsors of terror to pursue their nuclear ambitions and continue to be a destabilizing force in the region. I applaud @POTUS for taking actions that give us the best chance at peace."
Sen. Jim Inhofe (R-OK): "President Trump has done the right thing by pulling out of the flawed Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action and reinstating sanctions on Iran. It was a bad deal from the beginning that only paused Iran's nuclear development and did nothing to address their malign behavior in the region or their ballistic missile capabilities. We've seen how a tough approach from President Trump is seeing real results with China and North Korea. I fully expect his action today to be the first step in actually countering the regime in Tehran, rather than appeasing them with a toothless accord."
Sen. Lindsey Graham (R-SC): "I strongly support President Trump's decision to withdraw from the Iran nuclear deal. He made a strong and convincing case for this position. The agreement has always been fatally flawed when it came to controlling Iranian nuclear ambitions."
Sen. John Thune (R-SD): "I have never supported the Iran nuclear deal. It has emboldened Iran, and the sanctions relief it provided continues to fund Iran's other destabilizing activities, including state-sponsored terrorism ... Exiting the Iran deal affirms our commitment to denuclearization and keeping these weapons from those who would threaten the United States and our allies."
Sen. Ted Cruz (R-TX): "Today, @POTUS boldly told the world that the United States will not be bound by an agreement that advances the interests of an enemy committed to the destruction of our nation and our allies. I commend President Trump for exiting the Obama Iranian nuclear deal and for his commitment to confronting Iran's 'Death to America' regime."
Sen. Orrin Hatch (R-UT): "I applaud the President's announcement. The Iran deal is deeply problematic in substance and design, and for too long, it has been a substitute for any broader US thinking on the region. With our withdrawal from the deal, we can now focus on working together, across the aisle and across the Atlantic, to counter Iran's malign activities, from its nuclear weapons program to its human rights abuses."
Sen. John Barrasso (R-WY): "I strongly support @realDonaldTrump's decision to withdraw from flawed #IranDeal. Strategic patience with Iran has failed. Iran has continued to terrorize & threaten its neighbors. America must stop rewarding terrorist regimes with legitimacy and cash."
Rep. Martha Roby (R-AL): "I strongly opposed this Obama-era executive agreement, and I support the Trump Administration's efforts to ensure that we truly end Iran's nuclear weapons program."
Rep. Mike Rogers (R-AL): "I didn't support the Iran deal when it came through Congress and am glad we have a President who agrees! Thank you, @realDonaldTrump!"
Rep. Ken Calvert (R-CA): "The Iranian regime, the largest sponsor of terrorism on the planet, has no interest in abiding by the Nuclear Deal. I support reinstituting sanctions that we hope will result in a transformational change in Iran."
Rep. Doug LaMalfa (R-CA): "This deal was a disaster from the start and it lets Iran off the hook. I support the President's decision to withdraw the United States from this agreement."
Rep. Mike Coffman (R-CO): "I support the move to scrap the 'Iran Deal,' that never provided for unfettered access of suspected Iranian facilities, never prohibited the testing of ballistic missiles, and that only provided for a 10 year limit on the development of nuclear weapons."
Rep. Carlos Curbelo (R-FL): "Today's decision to withdraw is the right call. We must return to a strategic policy that holds Iran accountable for its support for terrorists and the Assad regime, ballistic missile aggression, and systemic human rights abuses, and diminishes the regime's influence in the region."
Rep. Ron DeSantis (R-FL): "The Iran deal has never been the law of the land because it was never ratified as a treaty by the Senate (or enacted as statutory law by Congress). President Trump had every right to withdraw the U.S. from what was effectively an Obama executive agreement."
Rep. Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL): "I commend the Trump Administration for taking this bold step to withdraw from this reckless deal that poses a threat to the United States, and for standing with our close ally Israel."
Rep. Brian Mast (R-FL): ".@realDonaldTrump's action today is a decisive first step in the long road to undoing the damage caused by the Obama Administration's historically bad Iran Deal. No deal with Iran is far wiser than a bad deal!"
Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL): "The President made the right decision to withdraw from the JCPOA and to begin the process to re-impose sanctions on the regime. Today marks the beginning of a new way forward on Iran and I'm confident that we will be able to build a coalition together to prevent a nuclear Iran."
Rep. Buddy Carter (R-GA): "I applaud President Trump's decision to remove America from this bad deal ... President Trump's decision today makes clear that we will not stand with a regime that spreads terror around the world and we will not accept a nuclear Iran."
Rep. Doug Collins (R-GA): "I support President Trump's decision to withdraw from the folly that is the Iran Deal. I've had grave concerns with the deal from the beginning, and I've long said that a nation that promotes terror internationally and against its own people has no business increasing its nuclear capabilities."
Rep. Jody Hice (R-GA): "I'm glad President Trump has fulfilled his campaign pledge to withdraw the United States from the shameful and misguided Iran Nuclear Deal negotiated under the Obama Administration."
Rep. Susan Brooks (R-IN): "Iran has proven to be an untrustworthy partner on the international stage and today's announcement reinforces our commitment to upholding and defending peace and stability around the world."
Rep. Luke Messer (R-IN): "I applaud @realDonaldTrump for withdrawing from the disastrous Iran nuclear deal. The Iran deal was a giant mistake. It has been bad for our national security, bad for our ally Israel's national security, and bad for the world."
Rep. Todd Rokita (R-IN): "This is what real leadership looks like. President @realDonaldTrump recognizes Iran has lied since striking the deal with Obama. They continue developing nuclear weapons, violating human rights, sponsoring global terrorism, and threatening Israel."
Rep. Ralph Abraham (R-LA): "Pres. Trump made a wise decision to reimpose sanctions on Iran. Iran Deal was not deterrent to nuclear weapon; it was a pathway. The President has always put the security of the US & our allies first and foremost above politics. Another example of solid, positive leadership"
Rep. Mike Bishop (R-MI): "This deal was flawed from the beginning, allowing Iran to continue their destabilizing activities in the region, all while sun-setting the nuclear prohibition provisions. I hope today's action will lead to a better, stronger agreement that will ensure security for our allies and stability in the Middle East."
Rep. Vicky Hartzler (R-MO): "Withdrawal from this agreement provides an opportunity to establish a more stable, equitable solution that ensures Iran does not develop and possess nuclear weapons. The current agreement fails to accomplish this goal."
Rep. Jason Smith (R-MO): "The Obama Iran deal was a concession that failed to protect America's national security interests and only further enabled Iran's reckless behavior ... I am glad that we finally have a President that is not afraid to stand up to this dangerous regime and put America first."
Rep. Mark Meadows (R-NC): "From its very inception, the Iran Deal was nothing short of a foreign policy debacle. President Trump is absolutely right to reinstate sanctions and withdraw from the agreement. The United States can do better—and we will. This is a victory for a safer and more secure America."
Rep. Steve Pearce (R-NM): "...I support the President's action today to withdraw from the Iran Deal. We cannot in good faith sit back and enable the world's leading sponsor of terrorism to continue their illicit activities."
Rep. Lee Zeldin (R-NY): "The Iran Nuclear Deal is fatally flawed for what's in it and fatally flawed for what's not in it."
Rep. Bob Gibbs (R-OH): "President Trump did the right thing in withdrawing from an agreement that did not effectively stop [Iranian] military aspirations."
Rep. Bill Johnson (R-OH): "I support the United States withdrawing from the Iran deal and President Trump's decision to reinstate crippling sanctions on the Iranian regime."
Rep. Bob Latta (R-OH): "Because of bipartisan opposition to the Obama Administration's deal in 2015, the JCPOA was never ratified as a treaty, which meant future Presidents were free to leave the agreement. President Trump made that decision today to withdraw from the JCPOA and reinstate sanctions on Tehran. I support this action."
Rep. Mike Kelly (R-PA): "I applaud President Trump for keeping his promise to the American people by withdrawing our country from President Obama's disastrous deal with Iran ... The president is exactly right to condemn it as 'a horrible one-sided deal that should have never, ever been made.'"
Rep. Bill Shuster (R-PA): "The Iran nuclear agreement is deeply flawed and I support @POTUS @realDonaldTrump's decision to remove the United States."
Rep. Lloyd Smucker (R-PA): "The #IranDeal fails to prevent Iran from testing ballistic missiles and does not address Iran's role as the world's leading state sponsor of terrorism. I support President Trump's decision to withdraw from this dangerous deal."
Rep. Glenn Thompson (R-PA): "The nuclear deal failed to protect America's national security interests and I fully support withdrawing from this one-sided agreement and reinstating our sanctions as a message that the United States is clear in our convictions that the regime will never attain nuclear weapons."
Rep. Jeff Duncan (R-SC): "I applaud President Trump for keeping his word, honoring his promises to the American people, and recognizing that for the sake of international security, we can and must do better."
Rep. Ralph Norman (R-SC): "The #IranDeal was a BAD deal. I thank @POTUS for his decision to withdrawal the U.S. from JCPOA and re-impose sanctions. This deal allowed the Iranian regime to continue their evil ways. We must ensure that Iran never develops/obtains nuclear weapons."
Rep. Kristi Noem (R-SD): "We should have walked away from this agreement at the very beginning, and I'm proud that President Trump has been bold enough to do so."
Rep. Diane Black (R-TN): "I am pleased to see that President Trump is committed to deterring Iran's pursuit of nuclear weapons and is putting America first. He said he would do it, and once again he is fulfilling his promises to the American people."
Rep. Marsha Blackburn (R-TN): "Iran is a terrorist state whose desire to destroy Israel and undermine the security of the U.S. is well known.  Quite simply, Iran cannot be trusted. I applaud President Trump for withdrawing from the nuclear deal and putting the safety of Tennesseans and Americans first."
Rep. Scott DesJarlais (R-TN): "Not only has Iran already violated the terms of Barack Obama's weak agreement, the regime has flagrantly violated U.N. resolutions restricting its ballistic missile tests and taken more American hostages, while others remained imprisoned. President Trump rightfully withdrew from the JCPOA, and we will work together to hold Iran to account for its nuclear program, terrorism and attacks on our allies."
Rep. Kevin Brady (R-TX): "President @realDonaldTrump is right to withdraw from the #IranNuclearDeal. This naïve, dangerous deal threatens Israel and ensures Iran – the number one state sponsor of terror – has a path to a nuclear arsenal."
Rep. John Culberson (R-TX): "I'm pleased that the President has ended this dangerous agreement with the world's leading state sponsor of terrorism, Iran. The Iran Nuclear Deal does nothing to prevent the financing of their global terror network or their aggressive ballistic missile development program."
Rep. Kenny Marchant (R-TX): "By exiting this flawed deal, reinstating permanent sanctions, and hardening restrictions on Iran's nuclear program, the President today made the security of the United States paramount. The stakes are far too high for the U.S. and our ally Israel to continue any agreement that would allow Iran to further its nuclear ambitions."
Rep. Michael McCaul (R-TX): "The President's decision today to withdraw from the nuclear agreement is based on these facts. We need a tougher approach and I commend President Trump for leading this effort."
Rep. Pete Olson (R-TX): "President Trump made the right decision in withdrawing the United States from this flawed deal, which gave too much for too little in return. The agreement lifted Iran sanctions, only hit the pause button on their uranium enrichment program and included only limited inspection procedures."
Rep. Ted Poe (R-TX): "President Trump's decision to end America's participation in the disastrous Iran nuclear deal is in the best interest of American national security."
Rep. Bob Goodlatte (R-VA): "The Iran Deal was a bad move from the start, and one that I opposed. I support President Trump's decision to exit the deal.  Iran needs to be held accountable for their actions, and we must ensure they do not have a path to a nuclear weapon."
Rep. Evan Jenkins (R-WV): "President Trump is acting in the best interests of our nation by rejecting this flawed deal and going back to the table to renegotiate. We must resume using sanctions to rein in Iran's nuclear program while we negotiate a better deal, one where Iran does not and cannot get a nuclear weapon."
Cabinet Members 
Secretary of State Mike Pompeo: "As we exit the Iran deal, we will be working with our allies to find a real, comprehensive, and lasting solution to the Iranian threat. We have a shared interest with our allies in Europe and around the world to prevent Iran from ever developing a nuclear weapon. But our effort is broader than just the nuclear threat and we will be working together with partners to eliminate the threat of Iran's ballistic missile program; to stop its terrorist activities worldwide; and to block its menacing activity across the Middle East and beyond. As we build this global effort, sanctions will go into full effect and will remind the Iranian regime of the diplomatic and economic isolation that results from its reckless and malign activity."
Secretary of the Treasury Steven Mnuchin: "President Trump has been consistent and clear that this Administration is resolved to addressing the totality of Iran's destabilizing activities. We will continue to work with our allies to build an agreement that is truly in the best interest of our long-term national security. The United States will cut off the IRGC's access to capital to fund Iranian malign activity, including its status as the world's largest state sponsor of terror, its use of ballistic missiles against our allies, its support for the brutal Assad regime in Syria, its human rights violations against its own people, and its abuses of the international financial system."
United States Ambassador to the United Nations Nikki Haley: "The President absolutely made the right decision to pull out of the Iran nuclear deal. This was a terrible deal that only allowed Iran's bad international conduct to worsen. We must never allow Iran to get nuclear weapons, and we must resist their support for terrorism that continues to threaten America and our allies."
Foreign Officials
Prime Minister of Israel Benjamin Netanyahu: "Thank you President Trump for your bold decision and your commitment to prevent Iran from ever getting nuclear weapons."
President of Israel Reuven Rivlin: "The decision made by the President of the United States constitutes an important and significant step in ensuring the security of the State of Israel, the security of the region and the security of the entire free world."
The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia's Ambassador to the United States Khalid bin Salman: "The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia fully supports the measures taken by @POTUS with regards to the JCPOA. We always had reservations with regards to sunset clauses, ballistic missiles program, and Iran's support for terrorism in the region."
United Arab Emirates Minister of State for Foreign Affairs Anwar bin Mohammed Gargash: "Iran's rhetoric & aggressive regional actions were the background to a flawed deal. The veneer of Tehran's compliance contradicted its bellicose policies. President Trump's decision is the correct one."
Advocacy Organizations & Policy Experts
The Heritage Foundation: "This was precisely the right message to send. The diplomatic ball is now in Iran's court. Iran's rulers can make the situation worse by threatening to crank up their nuclear program, or they can seek a diplomatic solution to their deepening economic problems."
The Heritage Foundation Kathryn and Shelby Cullom Davis Institute for National Security and Foreign Policy Vice President James Carafano: "#IranDeal President's decision 2 withdraw from deal was the right call."
The Heritage Foundation Margaret Thatcher Center for Freedom Director Nile Gardiner: "Today @POTUS did the free world a huge favour in withdrawing the US from the Iran nuclear deal. Now the focus must be on confronting one of the world's most dangerous and barbaric regimes."
Hudson Institute President and CEO Kenneth Weinstein: "...best, most straightforward, no nonsense, major foreign policy speech by a US president since W's August 24, 2002 speech denouncing Arafat and calling for a new Palestinian leadership, free from corruption and untied to terrorism. Bravo!"
Republican Jewish Coalition: "Today's decision renewed hope for a truly long-term nuclear-free Iran. By withdrawing from the agreement that Obama made, without Senate approval, President Trump now has at his disposal tools, like the enhanced sanctions that were waived under Obama, to get a deal that creates the necessary pressure on Iran. We appreciate President Trump's bold foreign policy and look forward to his leadership in dealing with the Iranian threat."
Simon Wiesenthal Center Founder and Dean Rabbi Marvin Hier and Associate Dean Rabbi Abraham Cooper: "Leaving the status quo with Iran awash with billions of US taxpayer's cash, would only ensure a growing circle of violence and terrorism in the region and ultimately could help pave the way for a nuclear arsenal that could reach our shores."
World Jewish Congress President Ronald S. Lauder: "President Trump has taken a courageous step today in making it ever clear to the Islamic Republic that he will not stand by in silence as it continues to subvert the nuclear agreement and exploit the good faith of the international community.  We urge other countries to follow this administration's example and not allow Iran to flout international law."
Editorial Boards
Boston Herald Editorial Board: "'America will not be held hostage to nuclear blackmail.' With that President Trump withdrew from the Iran nuclear deal yesterday and that is a good thing ... The president has made it known that he is willing to start fresh, inviting them to draw up a new agreement, saying, 'I am ready, willing and able. Great things can happen for Iran. And great things can happen for the peace and stability that we all want in the Middle East. There has been enough suffering, death and destruction. Let it end now.' The end of the Iran nuclear deal is a good step."
National Review Editorial Board: "Trump ended his speech by speaking directly to the Iranian people and saying they deserve better than their terror-supporting government that is in a state of enmity with much of the world. He's right, and his decision to pull out of the Iran deal is a welcome sign that, unlike his predecessor, he is willing to see the mullahs for what they are."
New York Post Editorial Board: "Finally: A US president is pushing back on Iran's dangerous and growing power. President Trump's decision Tuesday to withdraw from Team Obama's badly flawed Iran deal and reimpose sanctions sends a clear message to the mullahs: The jig's up ... 'America will not be held hostage to nuclear blackmail,' said Trump. Hear, hear."
The Wall Street Journal Editorial Board: "President Trump on Tuesday withdrew the U.S. from the Iran nuclear deal, rightly calling it 'defective at its core.' Yet he also offered Iran a chance to negotiate a better deal if it truly doesn't want a nuclear weapon ... Mr. Trump is walking away from Mr. Obama's personal commitment to Iran, not an American commitment."
Washington Examiner Editorial Board: "President Trump's decision to withdraw the United States from the disastrous Iran nuclear agreement negotiated by former President Barack Obama and reimpose sanctions was an important step toward a needed policy reset with one of America's most malicious enemies. In taking this action, Trump recognized that the 2015 nuclear deal imposed without the approval of Congress had a fatal flaw ... In his speech, one of the best made about and to Iran by an American president, Trump put the world on notice that the U.S. would no longer be hamstrung by a bad deal."
The Washington Times Editorial Board: "Once more, President Trump has done what he said he would do if elected president ... President Trump recognized the mess Mr. Obama made, and has started doing something about it."
  