
    Speaker Rendon Calls Harris 'The Strongest in This Field to Stand Up to Donald Trump'
Ahead of the 2019 California Democratic Party State Convention, 33 Democratic members of the State Assembly, including Speaker Anthony Rendon, are endorsing Senator Kamala Harris for President of the United States. These members represent more than half the Democratic caucus in the State Assembly.
"I am proud to endorse Kamala Harris for President of the United States," said Speaker Anthony Rendon. "Senator Harris is the strongest in this field to stand up to Donald Trump, restore stability to Washington and has the proven leadership and poise that this nation deserves. She is a tireless champion for progressive values and is unafraid to stand up and fight for those who are often overlooked or pushed aside. This nation needs her now more than ever."
"I'm honored to have the endorsement of Speaker Rendon and so many leaders from across California in this campaign," said Harris. "Working together, California will again reject this president and his attacks on our immigrant communities, our environment and access to affordable health care, while pursuing a new path for the country toward truth and justice."
Many of these Assembly members worked with then-Attorney General Harris to pass legislation that banned the 'gay-panic' defense, strengthened statewide efforts to prevent prescription drug abuse, protected a woman's right to choose, and many others.
Members of the California Assembly who are endorsing Harris today include:
AD-04 Cecilia Aguiar-Curry
AD-07 Kevin McCarty
AD-13 Susan Talamantes Eggman
AD-15 Buffy Wicks
AD-17 David Chiu
AD-18 Rob Bonta
AD-19 Phil Ting
AD-28 Evan Low
AD-29 Mark Stone
AD-32 Rudy Salas, Jr.
AD-37 Monique Limon
AD-38 Christy Smith
AD-39 Luz Rivas
AD-40 James Ramos
AD-41 Chris Holden
AD-43 Laura Friedman
AD-44 Jacqui Irwin
AD-45 Jesse Gabriel
AD-46 Adrin Nazarian
AD-49 Ed Chau
AD-50 Richard Bloom
AD-51 Wendy Carrillo
AD-53 Miguel Santiago
AD-54 Sydney Kamlager-Dove
AD-57 Ian Calderon
AD-59 Reggie Jones-Sawyer
AD-61 Jose Medina
AD-62 Autumn Burke
AD-63 - Speaker Anthony Rendon
AD-64 Mike Gipson
AD-66 Al Muratsuchi
AD-76 Tasha Boerner Horvath
AD-78 Todd Gloria
These members join more than 40 other leaders from across California in backing Harris' candidacy, including U.S. Representatives Barbara Lee, Ted Lieu, Katie Hill, Julia Brownley, Nanette Barragan and Governor Gavin Newsom, Lt. Governor Eleni Kounalakis, Secretary of State Alex Padilla, State Treasurer Fiona Ma, Superintendent of Public Instruction Tony Thurmond and Insurance Commissioner Ricardo Lara, 22 members of the State Senate Democratic Caucus including President Pro Tempore Toni Atkins, civil rights leader Dolores Huerta, San Jose Mayor Sam Liccardo, San Francisco Mayor London Breed, Sacramento Mayor Darrell Steinberg, Long Beach Mayor Robert Garcia, Oakland Mayor Libby Schaaf and Compton Mayor Aja Brown and numerous other municipal and local leaders.
  