
    
  By the President of the United States Of America
  A Proclamation

There is a story about a little girl who said to her mother, in one of those bursts of exaggeration that children sometimes have, "Mama, I am nearer to you than I am to Papa." Her mother asked what she meant by such a strange remark. "Why," her daughter replied, "I am your own little girl, but I am only related to papa by marriage."
The point seems to survive a child's exaggeration. In fact, where mothers are concerned most of us always retain something of that same feeling. A mother's gift of life and love often are the animating spirit of a family. And it has been the family which has passed on to future generations the values which have fashioned our Nation's progress over the years.
In 1972, we honor mothers for these contributions and more. In addition to the vital force they have always represented in family life, many mothers are now finding greater opportunities to pursue careers outside the home. In the home and outside the home they make a special contribution to the vitality and spirit of America.
Fifty-eight years ago, Woodrow Wilson proclaimed the second Sunday of May as the special day to honor our mothers, calling upon the American people to make "a public expression of our love and reverence for the mothers of the country."
The Congress, by a joint resolution of May 8, 1914, has set aside the second Sunday of May of each year as a day in which we honor all mothers for their countless contributions to their own families, to their communities, and to the Nation.
Now, Therefore, I, Richard Nixon, President of the United States of America, do hereby request that Sunday, May 14, 1972, be observed as Mother's Day; and I direct appropriate officials of the Government to display the flag of the United States on all Government buildings.
I urge the people of the United States to show their reverence and respect for the mothers of this country by special expressions of affection and gratitude.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this eleventh day of May in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred seventy-two, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred ninety-sixth.

RICHARD NIXON
  