
    THE PRESIDENT. First of all, I want to welcome all of you to the White House, and I want to congratulate Bob Hope. He's getting ready to start on a second career, as you know. He'll be making commercials full-time— [laughter] —advertising yogurt. [Laughter]
Since Mr. Hope has now been proven to be 75 years old, at least we know that his claim is false that he sold Pepsodent to George Washington the first time he came to the White House. [Laughter] We all know he had wooden teeth, and he was a Lemon Pledge man. [Laughter] I'm talking about George Washington. [Laughter]
Although this is the first time that Bob Hope has been to the White House since I've been here, I figured up today that I've been in office now for 489 days. And when I spend 3 more weeks, I will have stayed as many nights in the White House as Bob Hope has. [Laughter]
I'll never forget when we first moved in. We went by the Lincoln Bedroom, and Rosalynn was really excited. We came in here to the East Room and saw the portraits of George Washington and his First Lady; I was very excited. And Amy was excited in all the other rooms, because they had signs above the doors, "Bob Hope Slept Here." [Laughter]
Amy is here; she's already invited Bob Hope to spend the night with her tonight. He'll have to climb the tree to get to his bedroom, but I'm sure he can make it. [Laughter]
I met Bob Hope when I was Governor. He came down to Atlanta for a big celebration. I was very disappointed; I think I was the only person in the Armed Forces who'd never met him while I was overseas. Every Christmas Eve we would put some cookies and a bottle of scotch under our periscope in the submarine, but he never showed up. [Laughter]
But I think it's accurate to say that the USO is as much a part of our Government, our Armed Forces, the basis for strength in our Nation, the good spirit, and a commitment to service of our country among those who have been overseas during times of war and peace, that Bob Hope is just as much a part of that as any President who's ever served, and I thank him from the bottom of my heart for that tremendous contribution.
There is no way for me to add additional plaques nor certificates nor medals to what Bob Hope has already received from my predecessors and other leaders. But as President of the United States of America, as the Commander in Chief of all our Armed Forces, and as the Chairman, the Honorary Chairman, of the USO, I want to express my thanks and the thanks of a grateful nation to a man who in war and peace, through his own brilliance, his sense of humor, his patriotism, his love and concern for men and women in the Armed Forces who were not fortunate enough to be home to be with their own loved ones, and for selfless and unselfish devotion over many years above and beyond the call of duty, and on behalf of our country, our Armed Forces, and the USO, I want to say thank you to my friend, Bob Hope.
MR. HOPE. Thank you, Mr. President, Mrs. Carter. I know we all feel the same way—there are so many in here on a pass tonight. [Laughter]
I have never seen so many people-freeloaders, in my life. [Laughter] But what a kick it is to come in here and just shake hands with the President and the First Lady. That's something, isn't it?
I appreciate all those words, and I did a congressional wives' luncheon today in honor of Mrs. Carter, and I enjoyed doing that and seeing the congressional wives. And I told them that I visited Washington every once in a while, not so much lately, but I used to come here quite often- [laughter] —not for political favors, I just wanted to try to get into Wilbur Mills' carpool. [Laughter] And I did other things.
But I want to say I appreciate this very much. You know, you realize, you think this is a soft job. When you stand in line like that and greet this many people and shake hands with these alleged friends- [laughter] —some of them squeeze a little hard, I want to tell you. I mean, you've got to appreciate the fact that the President and Mrs. Carter take time to do this. This is not an election year, you know. [Laughter]
It's wonderful, and we appreciate it very much. And I want to apologize for some of the things I've said on television-right now, let me see— [laughter] —no, when I said that Mr. Carter was a very religious man, because every time I ate a peanut, I feel immortal— [laughter] —I'm sorry about that.
I just want to thank all of you for coming. I want to thank the President and Mrs. Carter for loaning us our house. [Laughter] God knows we paid for it. [Laughter] I would have mailed this speech in, but I couldn't afford it. [Laughter] The price went up to 15 cents. It was supposed to go up in '63, but the Postmaster General just got the letter. [Laughter]
Thank you very much.
THE PRESIDENT. Bob was embarrassed to say this, but he wanted me to point out again to you how deeply honored he is to have you here. And he says that you're the best friends he has in the world. He doesn't get a chance to see you very often, and he would like for all of you to wait in the room until he's outside. He'd like to shake hands with you again as you leave. [Laughter]
  