
    Pool Reports by Michael Collins, USA Today 



Sent:
Reports:




May 27, 202208:41

Out-of-town pool report #1: Schedule update
Good morning from the White House.
We have a bad weather call, so the president will motorcade to Annapolis for the Naval Academy's graduation and commissioning ceremony.
Pool has loaded into the vans and is awaiting departure from the White House
The weather forecast in Annapolis calls for rain, starting around noon.
The graduation ceremony is scheduled to be outdoors, rain or shine, at the Navy-Marine Corps Memorial Stadium.



May 27, 202209:09

Out-of-town pool report #2: WH departure
POTUS walked out of the White House at 9:07 am and got into The Beast.
We are rolling for Annapolis.



May 27, 202209:52

Out-of-town pool report #3: Annapolis arrival
Motorcade arrived at the Naval Academy at 9:48 am after an uneventful ride.
Crowds along the route in Annapolis waved to the motorcade and took photos with their cellphones. A couple of men held up a huge banner that read: "Don't blame me. I voted for Trump ."
From the White House:
Traveling with the President to Annapolis:
Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security AffairsMike Donilon, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the PresidentKarine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press SecretaryAnnie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office OperationsStephen Goepfert, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the PresidentCarlyn Reichel, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for Speechwriting & Strategic InitiativesTravis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip DirectorMarc Gustafson, Senior Director for the White House Situation Room



May 27, 202210:05

Print pool report #4: Color from the stadium
Some color from the Navy-Marine Corps Memorial Stadium:
The graduating class is seated in rows of white folding chairs on the stadium grounds facing the stage. Family, friends and other spectators are seated in the stands, which are mostly full.
The skies are overcast and there's an occasional breeze, but no rain so far.
The ceremonies will be live streamed on the White House website, so your pooler will not be sending a feed from POTUS' remarks.



May 27, 202210:25

Out-of-town pool report #5: Ceremony begins
POTUS took the stage to cheers and applause at 10:17 a.m. He was wearing a face mask, but removed it when he arrived at his position on the stage.
He placed a hand over his heart as he was greeted with a 21-gun salute, which was followed by the playing of the National Anthem.
More details from the White House:
Attendees at the United States Naval Academy Commencement include 20,000 attendees, including graduates, families graduates, members of United States Navy leadership, members of the administration, and Members of Congress.
Seated on stage with the President:Secretary of the Navy Carlos Del ToroVice Admiral Sean Buck, United States Navy
Commencement run of show:National anthem as performed by a military soloistInvocationVice Admiral Buck delivers remarksSecretary Del Toro delivers remarksIntroduction by Commander Stan Fisher, United States NavyThe President delivers remarksGeneral David H. Berger, Commandant of the Marine Corps delivers remarks and administers the oath to United States Marine Corps selecteesAdmiral Michael Gilday, Chief of Naval Operations delivers remarks and administers the oath to United States Navy selecteesThe President presents those graduating with distinction their diploma. Colonel James McDonough, Commandant of Midshipmen hands the President the diplomas.The President, Secretary Del Toro, Vice Admiral Buck, Admiral Gilday, General Berger, and Colonel McDonough present diplomas to all graduates.Ensign Andre Rascoe, President of the Class of 2022 delivers remarksSinging of the alma mater, "The Navy Blue and Gold"



May 27, 202210:35

Out-of-town pool report #6: POTUS speaks
POTUS was introduced at 10:34 a.m. and began his remarks.



May 27, 202211:02

Out-of-town pool report #7: POTUS concludes
POTUS wrapped up his remarks at 11 a.m.



May 27, 202211:50

Out-of-town pool report #8: Presentation of diplomas
More color from the ceremony:
The sun broke through the clouds briefly and a light breeze blew as Marine Corps selectees rose from their seats, raised their right hands and swore to support and uphold the Constitution during their commissioning ceremony. A few minutes later, Navy selectees stood and took their oath of office. POTUS remained on stage during the ceremony.
At 11:19 a.m., POTUS began presenting diplomas to the distinguished, top 100 graduates. One by one, they walked across the stage as their names were called over the loudspeakers. POTUS handed diplomas to each graduate, shook their hands and spoke with each for a few se­conds. Pool was seated too far from the stage to make out any of their conversations.
Afterward, POTUS began receiving the rest of graduates, who walked to the center of the stage one by one. POTUS shook their hands and patted a few on the shoulder or the elbow. The graduates then were handed their diploma from a receiving line that included Secretary Del Toro, Vice Admiral Buck, Admiral Gilday, General Berger and Colonel McDonough. Some of the graduates held their diplomas up in the air as they exited the stage.
The presentation of diplomas is still under way.



May 27, 202213:27

Out-of-town pool report #9
Pool was ushered back to the vans immediately after the presentation of diplomas ended and the new graduates tossed their hats into the air.
Pool did not see POTUS' return to the motorcade.
The rain held off for the duration of the ceremony, but at 1:08 pm, the skies over Annapolis opened up and a downpour ensued.
At 1:26 pm, we are still awaiting departure.



May 27, 202214:09

Out-of-town pool report #10: Annapolis departure
Motorcade departed the Naval Academy at 2:07 pm.
We are motorcading to JBA and taking AF1 to Delaware.



May 27, 202214:47

Out-of-town pool report #11: JBA arrival
Motorcade pulled into JBA at 2:41 pm.
POTUS boarded AF1 at 2:46. He did not take questions
We are taking the small plane to Delaware.
We are rolling shortly.



May 27, 202215:58

Out-of-town pool report #12: Delaware arrival
AF1 was wheels down at DANG at 3:43 pm.
POTUS walked down the stairs of the plane at 3:55 pm amid a light rain and got into an SUV.
There were no visitors to the press cabin during the flight.
We are rolling to POTUS' residence at 3:57 pm.



May 27, 202216:14

Out-of-town pool report #13: lid
Motorcade arrived at POTUS' residence at 4:08 pm. Pool did not see him exit the SUV.
We have a travel photo lid at 4:12 pm.
Have a good night, everybody.




  