
    
"I should tell you that CNN asked Jamie Rubin earlier today for the rest of the interview or at least for a transcript and he said he didn't have it." -- CNN's Dana Bash
CNN's "Lou Dobbs Tonight"
May 16, 2008
CNN'S DANA BASH: "You remember these interviews were done shortly after Hamas won the Palestinian elections. Lou, the McCain campaign just in the past couple of hours, found a link to more of Jamie Rubin's interview from back then. In it, I'll read you a quote from the rest of or at least more of the interview, In that quote Sen. McCain says, 'I think part of the relationship will be dictated by how Hamas acts, not how the United States acts.' Now the McCain campaign, as you can image, says that this is proof that Senator McCain has been consistent all along, and I should tell you that CNN asked Jamie Rubin earlier today for the rest of the interview or at least for a transcript and he said he didn't have it. He said he only had this particular quote he said that was e-mailed to him." 
CNN'S LOU DOBBS: "Well that seems, certainly to, as you report, to substantiate precisely what Senator McCain is saying." 
BASH: "That's what the McCain campaign is insisting and that's why they were, as you can imagine, very eager to send out this e-mail. And I can tell you at the top of the e-mail the subject header said 'Jamie Rubin Lied.' Inside the McCain campaign, they are accusing Jamie Rubin of lying tonight. We're going wait to hear back from Jamie Rubin about that charge. As you can imagine, that's quite a charge to say somebody lied." 
DOBBS: "It is quite a charge. It is also quite something for someone from another campaign to conflate both the role of journalism and of course political activism. Let me ask you this. If we may, I'd like to provide the viewers of this broadcast a link, as you referred to it, that would give them the entire context of that interview. So if we may, I'd like to put that up on LouDobbs.com for our viewers' benefits if they'd like to use it." 
BASH: "I'll get it to you." 
DOBBS: "Great reporting and thank you very much."
Watch The CNN Report On Jamie Rubin's Lies 
 Watch Full UNEDITED Jamie Rubin Question-And-Answer On Hamas
  