
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
May 10
In the afternoon, the President met with President Rene Preval of Haiti at the Sherbourne Center in Bridgetown, Barbados.
May 12
In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC, arriving in the evening.
May 13
The President announced his intention to appoint Betty Bednarczyk to serve as a member of the Advisory Commission on Consumer Protection and Quality in the Health Care Industry.
The White House announced that the President invited President Kiro Gligorov of the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia to Washington, DC, for a working visit on June 17.
May 14
In an afternoon ceremony in the Oval Office, the President received diplomatic credentials from Ambassadors Saad Mohamed Al-Kobaisi of Qatar; Pengiran Anak Dato Seri Laila Jasa Jagi Puteh of Brunei; Osbert W. Liburd, of Saint Kitts and Nevis; Francisco Xavier Aguirre-Sacasa of Nicaragua; Riaz Hussain Khokhar of Pakistan; Alexdr Vondra of the Czech Republic; Alfred Defago of Switzerland; Grigore-Kalev Stoicescu of Estonia; Valery Tsepkalo of Belarus; Joseph Diatta of Niger; Mark Micallef of Malta; and Le Van Bang of Vietnam.
May 15
The President announced his intention to appoint Ann Todd Free as a member of the Commission on Fine Arts.
The White House announced that the President invited NATO Secretary General Javier Solana to Washington, DC, for a meeting at the White House on May 19.
May 16
In the afternoon, the President met with President Leonid Kuchma of Ukraine in the Oval Office.
The President announced his intention to nominate George Munoz to serve as President of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation.
The President announced his intention to nominate Terry D. Garcia to be Assistant Secretary for Oceans and Atmosphere, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce.
The President announced his intention to appoint Mickey Ibarra to serve as Assistant to the President and Director of Intergovernmental Affairs at the White House.
  