
    THE PRESIDENT. How do you do? Nice to see you. You from here? Vienna? Oh, it is a lovely city. I have pleasant memories of Vienna. I have been there four or five times, once with my daughters in 1963. We stayed in the Imperial Hotel, in one of the great suites of the world. But after seeing this, I am not sure. Everything here is nice. I see why the tourists all want to come here. Sometime I will come as a tourist.
I know that some of you have been to this city and some have not, but I hope you have a chance this afternoon to really get around, because it is one of the most beautiful cities in the world. One of the points that I made when I was in Vienna in 1956, I found that of the tourists that came to Europe, the American tourists, only 8 percent got to Vienna, and that, of course is a great loss to them. I think the percentage now is up.
As I remember my trips to all of the European countries--virtually all of them---Vienna and Salzburg are a must, not only because of the historical things to see, but the beauty of the countryside, and also the Austrian people are just enormously hospitable and friendly. So you can put that in and tell the Austrian Chamber of Commerce, I expect my 5 percent.
Q. Mr. President, have you had a chance to check as to whether or not those refugee camps are still in this area?
THE PRESIDENT. Remember when we went to them? I haven't had a chance. Remember when I went there just before Christmas and talked to them? All the people were so moved, those young Hungarians. They are all gone now. They must be. The Hungarians have gone all over the world. Those camps were extremely well run. The Austrians deserve great credit for the hospitality that they showed the refugees during that period. It is hard to realize that was 17 years ago.
Q. Will you get a chance to do any sightseeing, Mr. President?
THE PRESIDENT. I have just done it. No, I am going to study this afternoon. I will be in all afternoon. I have been sort of doing it on the plane. I have, of course, a great deal of work to be done. There are so many substantive conversations involved here that it requires a great deal of concentration. Over the past 3 days in Camp David, of course, I caught up considerably, but now I have to go over all the final papers to be prepared for a number of very intensive discussions on a number of pretty knotty issues. This is the way it should be.
I know that Mr. Brezhnev and his colleagues will be very well prepared on the details as well as the generalities, and I have to be well prepared, too. That is one of the reasons why we think that the possibilities of some progress--I don't want to raise hopes--but some progress here are perhaps greater than in some cases, because both sides will be well prepared, both sides know where we differ. They know where we will have to negotiate those differences. Whether we are able to resolve them remains to be seen. But where conferences of this type fail is where one side or the other is not prepared, does not know what the real heart of the problem is.
In this case that will not be the problem. We will be able to go very directly to the points of difference and the points of agreement, and then we can talk about the points of difference.
I look forward to perhaps the most intensive negotiations that I have participated in on substantive matters, and that is why I will not be doing any sightseeing.
Q. Do you remember Brezhnev from your past visits to Moscow?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, I remember him, but we did not have any conversations at the time.
  