
    "President Obama likes to say that 'we can't wait' to solve America's problems, but he has done nothing but wait when it comes to America's energy security. His opposition to developing domestic energy resources imperils our economic future and our national security. While President Obama is content with endless 'studying' and delay, Mitt Romney has a plan that will put Americans to back work, pump billions of dollars into the economy, and strengthen our energy security for decades to come." -Lanhee Chen, Romney for President Policy Director
President Obama Has Blocked Offshore Domestic Energy Exploration In Virginia Until At Least 2018 - Despite Broad Bipartisan Support For Such Efforts:
President Obama Has Established A De-Facto Seven-Year Moratorium On Drilling Off The Virginia Coast. "The Interior Department announcement set in motion a five-year environmental and seismic study of offshore areas, including off the Virginia coast, but no actual lease sales and drilling. Virginia Gov. Bob McDonnell notes that a planned lease sale, which the administration canceled last year, will now be put off until at least 2018. ... The Obama administration first delayed the Virginia lease sale until 2012 and then later announced that no areas off the Atlantic Coast would be available for energy development in the next five-year plan (2012-2017)." (Editorial, "Yes, Virginia, President Obama Is An Oil Hypocrite," Investor's Business Daily, 4/2/12)

Former Virginia Governor Tim Kaine (D) And Virginia Senators Mark Warner (D) And Jim Webb (D) Expressed Disappointment In President Obama's Decision. "'I hope the Department of Interior and the Obama administration will recognize the bipartisan support for developing Virginia's offshore energy resources and add Virginia to the current lease sale,' [Kaine wrote] ... Sen. Mark Warner, D-Va., also said he hopes there'll be a change of heart. ... Sen. Jim Webb, D-Va., said he hopes the administration will reconsider." ("Virginia Left Out Of Offshore Drilling," The Fredericksburg Free Lance Star, 11/8/11)

The Obama Administration Has Also Spent Years Delaying The Keystone Pipeline - Despite Assertions From His Allies That It Will Create American Jobs:
President Obama Has Spent More Than Three Years Delaying The Approval Of The Keystone Pipeline. "The administration seems to think that it can use environmental claptrap to convince the American public that it is behaving ethically and legally in denying the TransCanada permit, even after the company has spent $1.9 billion over 40 months carefully adhering to the federal regulatory process. And a lot of Americans will not have the time or inclination to get into the weeds on this issue."  (Mary Anastasia O'Grady, "Obama's Keystone Delay Flouts The Law," The Wall Street Journal, 1/23/12)

Even President Obama's Labor Allies Support The Keystone Pipeline As A Project That Will Create "Significant" Numbers Of Jobs. "'Our unions have been steadfast supporters of the Keystone XL pipeline, a project ... that would put significant numbers of American skilled craft professionals back to work under a project agreement that ensures safe and efficient construction,' said Mark Ayers, president of the Building and Construction Trades Department, an AFL-CIO-affiliated group, in a statement." (Justin Sink, "Despite Battles Over Keystone And Jobs Council, AFL-CIO Endorses Obama," The Hill, 3/13/12)

But The Obama Administration Has Been More Than Happy To Push Through Controversial Measures Without Knowing Much About Them:
Solyndra: The Obama Administration Rushed Its Half-Billion Dollar Loan Out The Door Without Allowing Time For Proper Review. "The Treasury Department's oversight role of a half-billion-dollar federal loan guarantee to Solyndra LLC was not sufficiently defined, the consultation that did occur was 'rushed' and no records were kept as to how Treasury's serious concerns with the loan were addressed, a report says. The department's Office of Inspector General, in a report this week, said inspectors who examined the $535 million Solyndra loan were given only one day to look at the company's books before a press release was issued announcing the loan." (Jerry Seper, "Treasury Oversight Of Solyndra Loan Was Cut Short," The Washington Times, 4/5/12)
Obamacare: Even The Then-Speaker Of The House Didn't Know What Was In The Bill Before It Passed. "You might have seen this week a stunning demonstration of political condescension on the health care front. In remarks at the 2010 Legislative Conference for the National Association of Counties, House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said, 'But we have to pass the bill so that you can find out what is in it, away from the fog of controversy.'" ("Video Of The Week: 'We Have To Pass The Bill So You Can Find Out What Is In It,'" The Heritage Foundation, 3/10/10) 
Dodd-Frank: Even The Bill's Author Had No Idea How It Would Work In Practice. "'It's a great moment. I'm proud to have been here,' said a teary-eyed Sen. Christopher J. Dodd (D-Conn.), who as chairman of the Senate Banking Committee led the effort in the Senate. 'No one will know until this is actually in place how it works. But we believe we've done something that has been needed for a long time.'" (David Cho et al, "Lawmakers Guide Dodd-Frank Bill For Wall Street Reform Into Homestretch," The Washington Post, 6/26/10)
  