
    THE WHITE HOUSE, WASHINGTON - First Lady Melania Trump today announced BE BEST, an awareness campaign focusing on some of the major issues facing children today. The goal is to encourage children to BE BEST in their individual paths in life, and teach them about the importance of social, emotional, and physical health.
BE BEST will combat the issues facing children today by championing the many successful well-being programs that teach children tools and skills for emotional, social, and physical well-being. The campaign will also work to promote the people, organizations, and programs that are helping children overcome the issues they face growing up. While children navigate many challenges in their daily lives, BE BEST will include three main pillars to include well-being, social media use, and opioid abuse.
WELL-BEING
By promoting values such as healthy living, encouragement, kindness, and respect, parents, teachers, and other adults can help prepare children for their futures. With those values as a solid foundation, children will be able to better deal with the evils of the opioid crisis and avoid negative social media interaction.
SOCIAL MEDIA
Today's ever-connected children need our support to find happiness and to prepare themselves for adulthood. A study by the Clinical Psychological Science shows that after 2010, children who spent more time on new media were more likely to report mental health issues than those who spent time on non-screen activities. BE BEST will highlight the importance of using social media and the internet in positive ways.
OPIOID ABUSE
Opioid dependence, addiction, and abuse are an epidemic in this country. BE BEST will support the families and children affected by this crisis, bring attention to neonatal abstinence syndrome, and help educate parents on the importance of healthy pregnancies.
"It remains our generation's moral imperative to take responsibility and help our children manage the many issues they are facing today, including encouraging positive social, emotional, and physical habits," said Mrs. Trump. "By acknowledging there are many important issues, and knowing these problems cannot be solved overnight, I believe we can change the way we think and talk about issues facing children today."
The First Lady launched BE BEST in the White House Rose Garden. Joining her for the announcement were children who have written to her and whom she has met during her first year as First Lady. Members of the President's Cabinet, including Secretary of Health and Human Services Alex Azar and Secretary of Education Betsy DeVos, as well as leaders from the medical, technology, and business communities who work on children's health and want to be part of the solution.
Details on BE BEST can be found at www.BeBest.gov.
  