
    Pool Reports by Hailey Fuchs, Politico 



Sent:
Reports:




May 29, 2023 09:21

In-town pool report #1
Good morning, all. I'll be your pool reporter for this Memorial Day. I'll send the day's schedule shortly but here's an update on the President's breakfast - which is closed press - from the White House.
The President and the First Lady are hosting a breakfast in honor of Memorial Day. In attendance are members of veterans organizations, military service and family organizations, surviving families, Senior Department of Defense officials, and other administration officials. 


May 29, 2023 10:06

In-town pool report #2 - schedule
Hi all, here's the President's schedule for the visit to Arlington National Cemetery today.
8:30 AM THE PRESIDENT and THE FIRST LADY host a breakfast in honor of Memorial Day  East Room Closed Press 
10:40 AM THE PRESIDENT and THE FIRST LADY depart the White House en route to Arlington National Cemetery South Grounds In-Town Travel Pool (Gather 10:25 AM – Palm Room Doors)
10:50 AM THE PRESIDENT and THE FIRST LADY arrive at Arlington National Cemetery Arlington National Cemetery, Arlington, Virginia In-Town Travel Pool 
11:00 AM THE PRESIDENT and THE FIRST LADY participate in a Wreath Laying Ceremony at the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier; THE VICE PRESIDENT and THE SECOND GENTLEMAN attend Arlington National Cemetery, Arlington, Virginia In-Town Travel Pool
11:15 AM THE PRESIDENT delivers the Memorial Day Address at the 155th National Memorial Day Observance at Memorial Amphitheater;  Memorial Amphitheater, Arlington National Cemetery, Arlington, Virginia In-Town Travel Pool 
12:10 PM THE PRESIDENT and THE FIRST LADY depart Arlington National Cemetery en route to the White House Arlington National Cemetery, Arlington, Virginia In-Town Travel Pool
12:20 PM THE PRESIDENT and THE FIRST LADY arrive at the White House  South Grounds In-Town Travel Pool 


May 29, 2023 10:47

In-town pool report #3 - departure for ANC
President Biden has departed via motorcade for Arlington National Cemetery with the First Lady.
From the White House:
Traveling with the President and the First Lady en route to Arlington National Cemetery:
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations Anthony Bernal, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the First Lady Ryan Montoya, Deputy Assistant to the President & Director of Scheduling and Advance Marc Gustafson, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for the White House Situation Room Carlyn Reichel, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for Speechwriting & Strategic Initiatives Terri Tanielian, Special Assistant to the President for Veterans AffairsJordan Montoya, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the First Lady Vanessa Valdivia, Special Assistant to the President & Press Secretary for the First Lady Sheila Casey, Special Assistant to the President & Executive Director of Joining Forces 


May 29, 2023 10:59

In-town pool report #4 - arrival at ANC
The President has arrived at Arlington National Cemetery. Members of the military lined the road, as the motorcade drove through the cemetery.
From the White House:
Greeting the President and the First Lady upon arrival at Arlington National Cemetery:
The Vice President  The Second Gentleman Secretary Lloyd Austin, Department of Defense General Mark Milley, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Mrs. Hollyanne Milley, Spouse of General Milley Major General Allan Pepin Mrs. Heather Pepin, Spouse of Major General Pepin Karen Durham-Aguilera, Executive Director of the Office of Army Cemeteries, Arlington National Cemetery 


May 29, 2023 11:31

In-town pool report #5 - wreath laying
The President has laid a wreath at the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier. The wreath was adorned with flowers and had a red, white, and blue bow. An arrangement of orange, pink, red, yellow, and whiteish flowers was at its base of the tomb. Members of the military were also standing around the tomb.
Details:
The First Lady and Second Gentleman arrived before the President.
The President arrived with the Vice President and Sec. Lloyd Austin, along with a member of the military. POTUS held a salute as the military band played the Star-Spangled Banner. The Vice President and Secretary held hands over their hearts.
After, the President attached the wreath to a white stand and made a sign of the cross. He then rejoined the line with the Vice President and Secretary.
A member of the military played the drums, and another played taps on the trumpet. The President held his hand in salute.
There was a moment of silence facing the tomb and then a moment of silence while the three - VP, POTUS, and Austin, faced the crowd. They then walked up the steps.
From the White House:
The President, the First Lady, the Vice President, and the Second Gentleman are participating in a wreath laying ceremony at the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier. In attendance:
20 Ceremonial Troops from Five Service Branches 20-member U.S. Army Band Army Drummer, Bugler, Wreath Bearer, and Commander of Troops 9-member Joint Service Color Guard 


May 29, 2023 11:33

In-town pool report #6 - Memorial Day ceremony
At the ceremony in the amphitheater at Arlington National Cemetery, the Navy Band and the Sea Chanters chorus performed the National Anthem.
The Vice President, Second Gentleman, and First Lady sat together.
The President's remarks will be live-streamed here:
https://www.whitehouse.gov/live/ 


May 29, 2023 11:34

In-town pool report #7 - ceremony part 2
From the White House, regarding the Memorial Day ceremony at Arlington National Cemetery.
The President is delivering the Memorial Day Address at the 155th National Memorial Day Observance at Memorial Amphitheater. In attendance are approximately 3,000 attendees, including Department of Defense leadership, military families, members and leadership of military and veteran service organizations, and the general public.
Speaking Program Colonel James Foster, Command Chaplain, offers the Invocation General Mark Milley, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Secretary Lloyd Austin, Department of Defense The President Colonel James Foster, Command Chaplain, offers the Benediction 


May 29, 2023 12:04

In-town pool report #8 - ceremony part 3
The band and chorus performed This Land is Your Land.
The crowd and band stood when the President was introduced. It was drizzling as he spoke, and the President spoke about the loss of his own son Beau, who died eight years ago tomorrow.
He spoke about burn pits, and the PACT Act. At the signing of that law, he gave the pen to a young girl who's father is believed to have died from exposure to burn pits. She was in the crowd today and waved.
The President stopped speaking at 11:56 am. There was a standing ovation, and the pool was escorted out. 


May 29, 2023 12:11

In-town pool report #9 - departure from ANC
The motorcade started rolling at 12:08 pm. Members of the military lined the road at Arlington National Cemetery. Onlookers visiting the cemetery also gathered along the road. 


May 29, 2023 12:22

In-town pool report #10 - arrival at WH
The President has arrived back at the White House, and he entered through the Oval Office. Additionally, here's updated guidance about the President's departure for Delaware.
2:30 PM THE PRESIDENT and THE FIRST LADY depart the White House en route to New Castle, Delaware South Lawn Open Press (Gather 2:20 PM – Palm Room Doors) 


May 29, 2023 14:22

In-town pool report #11 - conversations with lawmakers
The pool is gathering now for departure. From the WH:
From a White House official: The President is speaking with members of Congress daily in advance of the vote on the bipartisan budget agreement. The President continues to be updated multiple times a day by his legislative team on progress toward passing the agreement to prevent catastrophic default and protect Democratic priorities and accomplishments. 


May 29, 2023 14:54

In-town pool report #12 - Departure for JBA
The President has departed the White House for Joint Base Andrews. Marine One wheels up at about 2:53 pm. He answered a number of questions about the debt ceiling and the GOP presidential primary, and I'll send quotes shortly. He walked down the line of reporters, so this pooler was unable to hear all his answers.
From the WH:
Traveling with the President and the First Lady aboard Marine One en route to Joint Base Andrews:
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations Anthony Bernal, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the First Lady Marc Gustafson, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for the White House Situation Room 


May 29, 2023 15:41

In-town pool report #13 — Quotes
Here's more from the gaggle with the President.
When asked about the update on the debt ceiling and whether he was confident it would pass Congress, he said "I feel very good about it" and that he had spoken with a number of members and McConnell.
He said he had spoken with and congratulated Turkey President Recep Tayyip Erdogan on reelection and said that the two would be back in touch with one another.
When asked what he would say to Democrats who have reservations about this compromise bill, Biden said, "Talk to me," and when asked again what he would tell them, he declined to go into further details.
When asked how the 2024 Republican field is shaking out, Biden responded, "I haven't been able to keep up with it," but he said there were a lot of "competent candidates who are trying to get the nomination."
When asked if he had talked to Congresswoman Jayapal and whether he could get progressives on board, he said, "I don't know, and I have a good relationship with Jayapal. I haven't had a chance to speak to her yet."
When asked who got the better deal — Democrats or Republicans — the President maintained it was a "bipartisan deal." He was asked if it would be done by June 5, to which he responded "Yes," and "There is no reason it shouldn't get done by the 5th. I'm confident that we'll get a vote in both Houses and we'll see."
Biden was asked about his reaction to Russia doubling down on attacks on Kiev, to which he said, "It's not unexpected" and "That's why we gotta continue to give Ukraine all that it needs."
He was asked if he was expecting any movement on Sweden's membership to NATO, and Biden said he raised that issue with Erdogan and that they're going to talk about it next week.
One reporter said some Republicans are saying the deal did not give the Pentagon enough money, and asked whether he could guarantee America's military would have what it needs for the next couple years, Biden maintained that "They passed my budget … Obviously, if there's any existential need for additional funding, I have no doubt we'll be able to get it."
When asked about Ron DeSantis pardoning Trump and his thoughts on the idea of pardoning Trump, he laughed, before saying "It's a good question." 




Pool Reports below by Cleve Wootson, The Washington Post 



Sent:
Reports:




May 29, 2023 15:11

Out-of-town pool report 1 - wheels up
Hi all. I'm your pooler for POTUS's overnight trip to Delaware.
POTUS, FLOTUS and pool are taking Air Force One to Delaware. POTUS, holding an umbrella, waved but didn't take questions under the wing.
The White House has released no details about what, if anything, is on POTUS's schedule after we land.
Marine One landed at JBA at 3:04 pm and we are wheels up imminently.
Traveling with POTUS on AF1:
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations
Anthony Bernal, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the First Lady Marc Gustafson, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for the White House Situation Room 


May 29, 2023 16:21

Out-of-town pool report 2 — Delaware arrival
AF1 was wheels up at 3:19 pm and wheels down at DANG at 3:59. Uneventful flight, no visitors.
POTUS and FLOTUS came down the stairs at 4:08 pm. FLOTUS was holding a bouquet of flowers.
They took photos with greeters and didn't take questions. (From White House: The President and the First Lady were greeted at Delaware Air National Guard Base by BG Carl Danberg and his spouse, Barbara.)
Motorcade is moving at 4:12 pm. 


May 29, 2023 16:47

Out-of-town pool report 3 - residence
Motorcade arrived at POTUS's residence at 4:26 pm.
Pool is holding. No lid yet


May 29, 2023 16:56

Out-of-town pool report 4 - lid
The White House called a lid at 4:53 pm.



\r\n
  