
    Obama attack comes as voter in Indiana today tells Sen. Obama she prefers Hillary's plan
With South Dakotans being squeezed at the pump like never before, Hillary Clinton this week unveiled a plan to suspend the gas tax on South Dakotans this summer to provide relief at the pump; she would pay for this gas tax holiday by imposing a tax on oil companies' windfall profits, meaning that the federal roads fund would not be impacted and would maintain all of the resources it needs to finance road construction projects.
In response, the Obama campaign organized a conference call with South Dakota reporters today to attack the plan and make false claims about oil company donations. The fact is that Sen. Obama raised more money from oil executives and employees in March (the last month for which public data is available) than any other candidate. Please [Click here] for more information on this: http://facts.hillaryhub.com/archive/?id=7318
"Sen. Obama might say he doesn't take contributions from oil companies, but he took more money last month from oil company executives than any other candidate. He might say he'll stand up to the oil companies but he's the only candidate who voted for the Bush-Cheney energy bill that was written by energy lobbyists and has been called the best energy bill corporations could buy," campaign spokesman Phil Singer said. "With gas prices this high, talk is cheap. The American people need solutions."
Hillary Clinton's plan to combat soaring gas prices also includes:

Closing $7.5 billion in oil and gas loopholes and using the funds to provide assistance for lower-income families to pay their energy and grocery bills;
Cracking down on speculation by energy traders and market manipulation in oil and gas markets that are driving up the price of oil by at least $20 a barrel;
Pressuring OPEC to increase oil production, including by filing a WTO complaint against OPEC countries
Stopping new additions to the Strategic Petroleum Reserve and standing ready to release oil to counter market spikes and reduce volatility.

[Click here] for more information on Hillary's plan.
To see a voter defend Hillary's plan to Senator Obama at an event today, please visit: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8gB27f69Je8
  