
    Today, John McCain detailed what he envisions achieving as President by the end of his first term in 2013.
John McCain will put the national interest ahead of partisanship to build an America that is safer, freer and more prosperous than when he was elected.
When John McCain is President, the era of the permanent campaign will end. He will work with anyone who wants to get this country moving again and will listen to any idea intended to solve our problems, not make them worse.
In forming government policy, John McCain will work with members of Congress from both parties.
John McCain's administration will set new standards for transparency and accountability.
John McCain will not leave our problems for another unluckier generation of Americans to fix after they have become even harder to solve.
John McCain also outlined his views on presidential power. The President's powers are rightly checked by the other branches of government, and John McCain will not attempt to acquire powers granted to Congress. He will exercise his veto but not subvert legislation through statements.
After four years of a McCain administration, America will be more secure and working with its allies and partners around the world to make us safer. In 2013:
The Iraq War has been won, Iraq is a functioning democracy, violence is much reduced, and America has welcomed home most of the servicemen and women who have sacrificed terribly so that America might be secure.
The United States maintains a military presence in Iraq, but a much smaller one that does not play a direct combat role.
The threat from a resurgent Taliban in Afghanistan has been greatly reduced.
There is a functioning League of Democracies that has effectively applied pressure on Sudan to agree to a multinational peacekeeping force to stop the genocide.

There is no longer any place in the world al Qaeda can consider a safe haven. An increase in actionable intelligence leads to the capture or death of Osama Bin Laden and his lieutenants.
Through increased international cooperation and concerted use of American power, we have disrupted terrorist networks and exposed plots around the world.

The United States and its allies have made great progress in advancing nuclear security.
The size of the Army and Marine Corps has been significantly increased, and are now better equipped and trained to defend us. A substantial increase in veterans educational benefits and improvements in their health care has aided recruitment and retention.

After four years of a McCain administration, the economy is stronger, Americans once again have confidence in their economic future and businesses are empowered to thrive. In 2013:

The economy is growing and Americans again have confidence in their economic future. Congress has lowered taxes and passed fundamental tax reform offering a choice in how taxes are filed.
The spending binge in Washington has ended. After John McCain exercises his veto pen in his first year in office, Congress has not passed an appropriations bill containing earmarks for the last three years. A top to bottom review of government and reforms yield great reductions in spending.
New trade agreements have been ratified leading to substantial increases in exports.
Americans who have lost jobs in the global economy are assisted by reformed unemployment insurance and worker retraining programs.
Public education is much improved due to measures that lead to increased competition, higher quality teachers, a revolution in teaching methods, higher graduation rates and higher test scores.
Health care is more accessible to more Americans than at any other time in history.
Medicare's solvency has been extended and both parties have worked together to fix Social Security without reducing benefits to those near retirement.
The United States is on its way to independence from foreign sources of oil with a cap-and- trade system spurring innovation, advancement in clean coal technology and the beginning of construction on 20 new nuclear reactors.
After four years of a McCain administration, new judges have been confirmed who understand they are not there to write laws, the border is secure and more Americans are called to serve. In 2013:
Scores of judges have been confirmed to the federal bench who understand they were sent there to enforce our laws and make sure they are consistent with the Constitution.
Border state governors have certified and the American people recognize that after tremendous improvements, our southern border is now secure. Illegal immigration is under control, and the American people accept the practical necessity to institute a temporary worker program and deal humanely with illegal immigrants.
Voluntary national service has grown in popularity.
  