
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate two individuals and designate one individual to serve in his administration:
The President intends to nominate Tom C. Korologos, of the District of Columbia, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Belgium. Mr. Korologos most recently served as Senior Counselor to Ambassador L. Paul Bremer of the Office of Coalition Provisional Authority in Baghdad, Iraq. He previously served as President of Timmons and Company, a Washington, D.C.-based consulting and lobbying firm he co-founded in 1975. Also during his career, Mr. Korologos served as a member of the Broadcasting Board of Governors and as a member and chairman of the Advisory Commission on Public Diplomacy. He earned his bachelor's degree from the University of Utah and his master's degree from Columbia University.
The President intends to nominate Cynthia G. Efird, of the District of Columbia, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Angola. A career member of the Senior Foreign Service, Ms. Efird currently serves as the Director of the Public Diplomacy and Public Affairs Office in the Bureau of African Affairs at the Department of State. She previously served as Special Advisor to the Associate United States Trade Representative. Ms. Efird earned her bachelor's degree from Georgetown University, her first master's degree from the National Defense University and her second master's degree from Duke University.
The President intends to designate Nancy C. Pellett, of Iowa, to be Chairman of the Farm Credit Administration Board for a term not to exceed May 14, 2008. Ms. Pellett currently serves as a member of the Farm Credit Administration Board. She previously served on the Cattlemen's Beef Board. Earlier in her career, Ms. Pellett served in the National Cattlemen's Beef Association. She earned her bachelor's degree from Iowa State University.
  