
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
May 25
In the morning, the President traveled to Arlington, VA, and in the afternoon, he returned to Washington, DC.
In the evening, the President attended Game 2 of the NHL Eastern Conference Finals at the MCI Center.
May 27
In a morning ceremony in the Oval Office, the President received diplomatic credentials from Ambassadors Edgardo Dumas of Honduras; Baki Ilkin of Turkey; Pascal Akoussoulelou Bodjona of Togo; Lee Hong-koo of South Korea; and Jaime Daremblum of Costa Rica.
In the late evening, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif of Pakistan concerning Pakistan's planned nuclear testing.
The White House announced that the President invited Amir Isa bin Salman al-Khalifa of Bahrain for a working visit to Washington, DC, on June 1.
The White House announced that the President will attend the National Ocean Conference in Monterey, CA, on June 12.
May 28
In the morning, the President had another telephone conversation with Prime Minister Sharif concerning Pakistan's nuclear testing. Later, the President had a telephone conversation with President Boris Yeltsin of Russia regarding economic issues and nuclear proliferation in South Asia.
May 29
In the morning, the President met with Kosovo Albanian leader Ibrahim Rugova in the Oval Office.
The President announced his intention to nominate Sylvia Mathews to be Deputy Director of the Office of Management and Budget.
The President announced his intention to name Minyon Moore as Assistant to the President and Director of Public Liaison.
The President announced his intention to name Maria Echaveste as Assistant to the President and Deputy Chief of Staff.
The President announced the formation of a second District of Columbia Financial Responsibility and Management Assistance Authority. He announced that current board members Andrew Brimmer, Constance Berry Newman, and Stephen Harlan will continue to serve in a transitional role for a period of 90 days and that Mr. Brimmer will retain his role as Chair for this period. The President also announced his intention to appoint Alice M. Rivlin, Vice Chair of the Federal Reserve Board, and Robert Watkins as new full-term members of the board. Ms. Rivlin will assume the role of Chair after Mr. Brimmer's departure.
The President announced his intention to appoint W. Ron Allen as a member of the Pacific Salmon Commission.
  