
    Indiana Congressman Pete Visclosky Endorses Barack Obama
Chicago, IL -- Today, Indiana Congressman Pete Visclosky endorsed Barack Obama for President, citing his commitment to build a working coalition to address the real issues Americans face:
"America needs a President who offers a vision of the future comprised of sensible solutions to today's troubles. My choice is Senator Barack Obama, who promises to seek pragmatic, progressive solutions to problems like jobs, Iraq, the energy crisis, and healthcare. Barack Obama will bring people together, give them hope, spur change, and set the U.S. back on a course toward progress, prosperity, and global leadership."
Senator Obama said: "I want to thank Congressman Visclosky for his support. Pete has been an advocate for Indiana's working men and women. I look forward to working with him to strengthen our economy, create a clean energy future and ensure our seniors are able to retire with the dignity they deserve."
Visclosky is the 286th superdelegate to endorse Barack Obama.
##########
Democrats Abroad Chair Christine Schon Marques Endorses Barack Obama
Chicago, IL — Today Democrats Abroad Chair and superdelegate Christine Schon Marques endorsed Barack Obama for president, citing his unique ability to unite all Americans and restore our moral standing in the world.
"As a Democrat abroad, I've seen the repercussions of the Republican Administration every day, in the diminished reputation of the United States and in the lack of real leadership both at home and abroad, from the economy to the war in Iraq," said Schon Marques. "I'm proud to be a Democrat, and proud of both our candidates. Today I pledge my support to Senator Barack Obama because I believe that he will take our country in the right direction, he will restore America's reputation, he will honor the men and women who are bravely serving our country, and he will reach out to Americans across the country and around the world. I hope that voters overseas join me in registering today at www.VoteFromAbroad.org so that all our voices are heard this November."
  