
    Pool Reports by Emily Goodin, DailyMail



Sent:
Reports:




 May 14, 2020 10:10

 In town pool report #1 - Kevin Hassett gaggle 
Good morning from the White House where it a cool and cloudy day.
I'll be your pooler. President Trump departs for Allentown at noon. No guarantee he will take questions at the departure but if he does and you have some, send them my way and I will try to ask them.
White House economic adviser Kevin Hassett did a six minute gaggle with reporters after a TV hit. White House press secretary Kayleigh McEnany had an 8 am TV hit but did not take questions afterward. She said she may have time after her 10:30 am TV hit, which is when your pooler is scheduled to take her coronavirus test. Will endeavour to get audio should she gaggle.
Meanwhile, here are highlights from Kevin Hassett's gaggle and our friends at C-SPAN have the entire exchange posted: >https://www.c-span.org/video/?472152-1/kevin-hassett-comments-reporters-...On the 2.98 new unemployment claims: "Well, I think that the unemployment insurance claims coming in a little bit north of 2.9 million is still a very tough number, but the number was better than we expected. I think the fact that we came in under 3 million suggests that the turning on the economy is beginning and it's beginning to show up with the data so what we expect now is the claims will continue to decline as the economy turns back."
Asked what he meant when he said the number was better than expected: "I think that we were expecting a number a little bit over 3 million. That's about where we had over the last few weeks and I think we were expecting that. You know, basically there's a lot of momentum in the claims data, and the back of the envelope 3 million against just places that are opening up. People are sort of starting to get back to work."
More on unemployment claims: "We're just starting to track it really super carefully - is look at the change in the claims by state, is we actually have the statements in detail, and then see what's going on in the states that are opening up. … My fear is that the places the state closed could have sort of skyrocketing claims, and the aggregate number, could stay, could continue to increase like we're seeing right now. But the places that are turning on could actually see claims go way back down toward normal."
Asked if the economic council will recommend to the president more funding for state and locak governments: "That's something that we're studying that we haven't reached a firm conclusion. What we need to do is look into the money that we're spending now, how it's been used, and compared to what potential sort of process going."
Asked how long the process will take: "Well, we're doing it every day right now."
On grocery prices: "I think that as economy gets going again and as we get better at testing and isolating and so on., then you know production get going again and that will probably take care of itself. I think that the main thing about grocery prices and everything else is that economy is really going down and people's incomes are going down, and then they tend to demand less stuff." 


 May 14, 2020 11:11

 In town pool report #2 - Kayleigh McEnany gaggle 
White House press secretary Kayleigh McEnany did about a five minute gaggle with reporters after a TV hit.
Highlights are below (as always please double check quotes against transcript). C-SPAN has the full exchange: https://www.c-span.org/video/?472153-1/kayleigh-mcenany-comments-reporte...Asked if the president is critical of scientists: "That's not at all the case. The president has a number of experts he takes into consultation and he decides what is best to go forward. The president regularly talks to the doctors. …He ultimately makes the decision as to how to move forward. After all he was elected by the American people to do just that."
Asked if the President and Dr. Fauci having differing view points on schools: "So on the issue of schools as he said they have differing viewpoints. That's clear. The President wants to see those schools reopen and do so safely. Dr. Fauci, I would note he ultimately clarified his testimony on the matter of schools and he says that school reopening is not tied to vaccines. So, Dr. Fauci did clarify that points but they definitely have differing opinions on this. And the President noted that himself yesterday."
Asked if the White House had advance warning of the warrant on Senator Richard Burr: "I have no information on that and would refer you to Chairman Burr's office."
Does the White House have a procedure should the president and vice president become incapacitated due to coronavirus and Speaker Pelosi needs to step in: "That's not even something that we're addressing. We're keeping the president healthy. We're keeping the vice president healthy and you know they're healthy at this moment and they'll continue to be."
Should it be under discussion given coronavirus cases at White House: "The President's healthy. The Vice President's healthy and I think that's something all reporters should be celebrating and the American people as well."
On Speaker Pelosi's new bill: "We certainly do not support the Pelosi bill full of Democratic wishes like giving direct payments with American taxpayer dollars to illegal immigrants. That's unacceptable. As for plans for phase four, the president said he's taking his time and being thoughtful about this. These are American taxpayer dollars. We've pumped trillions in already so he's taking time out to think about the most thoughtful way to go about a phase four. He's open to it. He's mentioned the payroll tax as a good example of something that he'd like to see in there - not a condition but certainly something he'd like to see. And he's open to it but taking his time."
Asked if new unemployment claim numbers have added a sense of urgency: "He's taking his time. We pumped trillions into the economy. He wants this country to reopen. And we've seen many states take steps to doing that. Florida is doing it successfully at the moment and so are some other states. And we had both a Democrat governor and yesterday and a republican governor who are looking to safely reopen their states. People want to get back to work."
Asked if there are any more positive coronavirus cases at the White House: "No, not that I'm aware of." 


 May 14, 2020 11:53

 In town pool report #3 - outside for departure 
Pool is lined up outside for POTUS' scheduled noon departure. No guests out on South Lawn.
Pool was tested for coronavirus and had a second temperature check (first was at White House gate) before coming out on South Lawn.
Pool, staff and agents are wearing masks.
We are awaiting POTUS to come out. 


 May 14, 2020 12:29

 In town pool report #4 - POTUS remarks 
POTUS emerged from Oval Office at 12:22 pm and is taking questions.
He came out with HHS Sec Alex Azar and Kayleigh McEnany. None of them wearing masks.
He let Kayleigh talk first. She showed off administration's action plan for past few months on coronavirus. Said she would give more details at tomorrow's briefing.
Azar talked about Bright's testimony.
"Everything he is complaining about was achieved," Azar said.
Trump saying there was "tremendous response" to hydroxy. He said he watched some of Bright's testimony.
"To me he is nothing more than a really unhappy disgruntled person," he said.
Please double check quotes. Hard to hear with Marine One in background.
He's still talking.
More TK... 


 May 14, 2020 12:35

 In town pool #5 - more POTUS and Marine One wheels up 
POTUS was asked if the CDC is over counting deaths which he didn't really answer.
Said WHO announcement will be soon - maybe next week.
He also said he had not heard news of Sen. Burr stepping down as intel chair.
Will send fuller quotes soon.
Marine One wheels up at 12:34 pm. Handing off to travel pool. 


 May 14, 2020 13:07

 In town pool report #6 - fuller quotes from the departure 
Here are fuller quotes from the departure. The president took questions for seven minutes.
Also, please note Kayleigh McEnany was holding two different documents. One was called: "Playbook for early response to high consequence emerging infectious disease threats and biological incidents," which was the document the Obama administration left for the Trump administration. The page was labelled "table of contents" and had hand writing all over it.
She was also holding a binder labelled: "Pandemic Crisis Action Plan"
As always, please check transcript.
President Trump: "We're going to Pennsylvania and we will have a great time."
White House press secretary Kayleigh McEnany: "I wanted to address our preparedness. The Obama-Biden plan has been referenced, it was insufficient, wasn't going to work. Whatever administration did, and leadership of President Trump, is an entire 2019 pandemic preparedness report. Beyond that we did a full exercise on pandemic preparedness in August of last year, and had an entire after action report put together. In other words, the Obama-Biden was superseded by President Trump-style pandemic preparedness response."
More McEnany: "We'll have a full update tomorrow for you guys at the briefing – line by line – of how prepared we were for the pandemic. "Trump: "We were given very little when we came administration, and they've done a fantastic job. I think we're going to have a vaccine by the end of the year."
HHS Secretary Alex Azar: "Dr. Bright is up there testifying today. Everything he was complaining about was achieved. What he walked about was done. He said he talked about the need for respirators. We procured respirators at the president's direction. He said we need a Manhattan project on a vaccine. We had a Manhattan project. … Oh, by the way, whose job was it to actually lead the development of a vaccine. Dr. Bright's. … This is like someone who was in choir is trying to say he was a soloist back then. … Dr. Bright was part of team and simply saying what everybody at the White House and HHS was saying. Not one bit of difference. … His allegations do not hold water. They do not hold water."
President Trump: "We've had a tremendous response to hydroxychloroquine. … A lot of people have sworn by it. And, yet, I'll tell you what. I watched this guy for a little while this morning. I'll tell you what, to me he's nothing more than a really disgruntled, unhappy person. … I don't know him. I never met. I don't want to meet him but I watched him, and he looks like an angry, disgruntled employee who, frankly, according to some people, didn't do a very good job."
Asked if he talked to DoJ about the warrant served to Senator Richard Burr: "No I never have. I didn't know."
More: "I know nothing about it. I never discussed it with anybody. That's too bad."
On the World Health Organization: "We'll be making an announcement on the world health organization shortly, soon. Probably next week sometime."
Asked if the CDC is over counting death counts: "I don't know how they're counting. I never discussed with it them."
Asked again: "We don't want people dying in this country. We've done a great job. We've done a great job, I'll tell you why. What we've done on ventilators, and what we've done on testing, except the press doesn't read it that way, because you have all this fake news, but what we've done on testing, we've now tested more than the entire world put together. The entire world put together. We have many more tests than they do, and better tests. And the reason we have more cases is because we have more testing. We've done a great job, and the people, the men and women who have done this great job should be acknowledged by the press." 


 May 14, 2020 17:07

 In town pool report #7 - Marine one landed 
Marine One was wheels down at 5:01 pm.
POTUS waved to pool and went into residence. He did not take questions.
Also spotted getting off Marine One, Mark Meadows, Dan Scavino, Jared Kushner and Kayleigh McEnany. None were wearing masks. Kayleigh had one in her hand. They walked into West Wing.
Pool had another temperature check before coming out on South Lawn. Pool wearing masks as are most staff and agents. 


 May 14, 2020 17:12

 In town pool #8 - travel photo lid 
The White House called a travel photo lid at 5:10 pm.
Stay safe and healthy everyone. Have a great evening. 



Pool Reports below by Shirish Date, HuffPost



Sent:
Reports:




 May 14, 2020 11:50

 WH Travel Pool Report 1 – Logistics 
Good morning from Joint Base Andrews in suburban Maryland, where the president is scheduled to arrive shortly by helicopter and then depart for Lehigh Valley International Airport outside Allentown, PA, for his visit to Owens & Minor, Inc., a health care logistics company.
The president is scheduled to tour the facilities and then deliver remarks at 1415, per the WH guidance.
The remarks will be carried live at WH.gov and possibly on cable networks and C-SPAN.
The pool traveling with Trump today consists of just seven journalists to allow some measure of social distancing on Air Force 1.
The plane we are using today is the smaller version, the modified Boeing 757, tail number 90017.
NB: If Trump chooses to speak with reporters under the wing prior to departure, pool will have less than a minute to get aboard after he is finished. Your pooler will be able fire off a short note, at most, about what Trump said before the aft door is closed and cell service is no longer available.
Therefore, your pooler suggests that if you want full quotes on what Trump has said in the event of such remarks, please find yourself a television or computer with access to cable programming. Otherwise you will likely have to wait until we land in Pennsylvania.
Some color from Andrews: every single person your pooler saw, from Air Force personnel to uniformed Secret Service to advance staff, was wearing a mask of some sort. 


 May 14, 2020 12:49

 WH Travel Pool Report 2 – Marine 1 arrival, AF1 departure 
.The president waved to the limited travel pool assembled under the port wing of Air Force 1 but did not approach to take questions.
Marine 1 landed at 1242. Trump emerged five minutes later, and at 1248 climbed aboard the plane at the forward stairs.
Color from the overcast and blustery tarmac: None of the AF or Marine Corps personnel outside the plane was wearing a mask. Aboard the plane, at least in the aft, they all were.
Pool was hustled aboard the plane at the aft stairs. We should be airborne shortly for Pennsylvania for the brief flight. 


 May 14, 2020 13:38

 WH Travel Pool Report 3 – Arrival in Allentown 
Air Force 1 touched down at 1334 following an uneventful, 36-minute flight that featured some moderate bumpiness over the latter half.
We had no visitors to the press area , other than a masked Mark Meadows — his mask bearing what appeared to be the presidential seal — who came to say hello for a minute.
At the start of the flight, Jared Kushner was visible at the head of the conference table in the center of the plane. He was not wearing a mask, and nor was there much distance between him and others at the table. A few feet at most. Pool could not see the faces of anyone else there because of the position of their seats. A little later, Kushner had a mask dangling from one ear.
And a bit later, HHS Sec Alex Azar had taken Kushner's place at the head of the table. He was wearing a mask, but removed it to eat.
On the bulkhead forward of the table, the giant flatscreen TV was tuned to Fox the duration of the trip. Outnumbered or something.
In the aft, the pool reporters were seated window and aisle with the middle seat empty. Even then, there was barely two and a half feet between us.
The secret service agents with seats in the aft were seated three across. Mask wearing was intermittent. (Most were not wearing one at the start, for example.) 


 May 14, 2020 13:48

 WH Travel Pool 4 — greeters 
Per the WH
From the White House –
The President is met by:
Representative Scott Perry United States Representative from Pennsylvania's 10^th Congressional District
Representative Brian FitzpatrickUnited States Representative from Pennsylvania's 1^st Congressional District
Representative Dan MeuserUnited States Representative from Pennsylvania's 9^th Congressional District
Representative Fred KellerUnited States Representative from Pennsylvania's 12^th Congressional District


 May 14, 2020 13:54

 WH Travel Pool report 5 — leaving airport 
The president came down the stairs at 1349 and said hello to and chatted with greeters but didn't not shake hands.
Greeters wore masks. Trump did not.
He got in his limousine at 1352.
Motorcade rolling at 1354. 


 May 14, 2020 14:18

 WH Travel pool report 6 — arrival at event 
Hundreds of Trump supporters, many of them waving flags or holding campaign signs and flags, almost all of them holding up their phones to record the moment, lined the roads and overpasses along the 13-mile route. At the plant itself, there were thousands.
Your pooler estimates that perhaps a few percent were wearing a face mask, and a good many of them were fairly close to each other. (Your pooler does not know, of course, how many of those close to one another were of the same household.)Motorcade pulled into the lot of Owens and Minor at 1415.
Reminder the president's remarks will be carried live on WH.gov and possibly the cable networks. 


 May 14, 2020 14:21

 WH Travel pool report 7 
Per WH:
Today, President Donald J. Trump will tour and deliver remarks at Owens & Minor, Inc. Distribution Center, a 137 year-old American medical equipment distributor in Allentown, Pennsylvania, that has sent millions of N95 masks, surgical gowns, and gloves to hospitals and surgery centers across the country to respond to COVID-19.
The following individuals are expected to attend: 
 The White HousePresident Donald J. Trump
Trump Administration Secretary Alex Azar, Department of Health and Human Services Acting Secretary Chad Wolf, Department of Homeland Security Administrator Peter Gaynor, Federal Emergency Management Agency Adam Boehler, Chief Executive Officer, United States International Development Finance Corporation  RADM John Polowczyk, Vice Director of Logistics, Joint Staff
Owens & Minor, Inc. Leadership Edward Pesicka, President and Chief Executive Officer Jeff Jochims, Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer Chris Lowery, Executive Vice President and President of Global Products Mark Zacur, Executive Vice President and Chief Commercial Officer 


 May 14, 2020 14:38

 WH Pool report 8 — warehouse tour 
The president and his entourage were led around by Owens and Minor employees, who explained their distribution system and the products they handle. Trump and COS Mark Meadows did not wear masks. Everyone else did.
They remained largely out of earshot. Trump appeared to ask questions and nod at the answers.
What sounded like the playlist from Trump's rallies played softly in the background.
Trump approached the pool at one point as Michael Jackson's "Billie Jean" came on:
"Most of this equipment is made in the USA. That's the way we like it."
Pool has now been moved to the location for the remarks, where the rally playlist is blaring at near rally volume. 


 May 14, 2020 14:51

 WH Travel Pool Report 9 – Event color 
The president is speaking in a massive warehouse. The corrugated metal roof is a good 20 or 25 feet overhead, with wire shelfs piled high all the way to the top with medical and cleaning supplies in cardboard boxes of varying sizes.There is a giant US flag hanging down from the framework at the roof at one end of the building. A stage has been set up in front of that, with a lectern bearing the presidential seal.The audience is several dozen employees in matching neon green/yellow company T-shirts with "Empowering our customers to advance healthcare" [yes, one word] on the backs.Their seats are a good 6-8 feet apart, and it appears that they are all wearing face masks.We're at the part of the playlist where Elton John's Tiny Dancer is playing.Awaiting Trump.Music update: Billy Joel's Piano Man. 


 May 14, 2020 14:56

 WH travel pool report 9a — photo supplement 
In case your pooler's word pictures are not enough. 


 May 14, 2020 14:59

 WH travel pool report 10 
The president took the stage at 1455, to a playing of Lee Greenwood's "God Bless the USA," although unlike at an actual rally, Trump did not let it play all the way through.
"The cupboards were bare," he says within minutes.
The remarks are being carried live on whitehouse.gov and possibly elsewhere. 


 May 14, 2020 15:14

 WH Travel Pool report 11 -- partisan political content at official event 
Your pooler will note that, like at most of his other official events since taking office, the president is again attacking Democrats, in this case his likely Democratic opponent this November, Joe Biden.
Trump called the former vice president "Sleepy Joe," eliciting some nervous laughs from the audience.
It is unclear whether the remarks were written into his speech by WH staffers or if it was an the off-the-cuff addition by Trump. 


 May 14, 2020 15:31

 WH Travel Pool Report 12 – event finished, motorcade rolling 
The president wrapped up his remarks at 1524.
The pool was hustled out into the vans as the Rolling Stones' You Can't Always Get What You Want came on.
At 1529 the motorcade is underway back to the airport. 


 May 14, 2020 15:56

 WH travel pool report 13 — Allentown departure 
The crowd outside the warehouse had thinned somewhat, but still numbered in the thousands.
A number of the signs people had made attacked Pennsylvania Gov. Tom Wolf. "Save us from the big bad Wolf," read one.
Another sign: "THE MEDIA IS THE VIRUS"
Your pooler did notice the stray protester. One woman who looked to be in her 20s held a piece of brown cardboard with black lettering: "85k Dead Equals Epic Failure"
The motorcade was back at the airport at 1550. The president got out of his limo and did some photos with local police officers. He was back aboard at 1555.
We should be aloft shortly for the half-hour flight home. 


 May 14, 2020 16:52

WH travel pool report 14 — Andrews return 
Marine 1 lifted off the concrete at Joint Base Andrews at 1652, ferrying the president back to the White House.
He took no questions from the pool after coming down the stairs from Air Force 1's forward door following the 29-minute flight back from Allentown.
No visitors to the press section during that quick trip, although we get a bit of turbulence in the final minutes before the 1635 touchdown.
Handing back to the in-town pool.



  