
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

Our Nation's transportation system has not only enabled the American people to enjoy unparalleled mobility, it has also enabled us to benefit from a high degree of economic prosperity and military preparedness. Facilitating the safe, efficient movement of workers to jobs and goods to markets, our transportation system is vital to the Nation's economic productivity and competitiveness. Allowing for the prompt, large-scale deployment of manpower and equipment, it also ensures our ability to respond effectively to national emergencies.
The recent war in the Persian Gulf underscored both the importance and the effectiveness of America's transportation system. Working with government agencies and with various carriers, thousands of civilians made a substantial contribution to the mobilization of our Armed Forces during Operations Desert Shield and Desert Storm. For example, our oceangoing Ready Reserve Force of ships and our Civil Reserve Air Fleet of commercial airline aircraft were called upon for the first time. At the request of the Department of Defense, the Department of Transportation activated more than 70 Ready Reserve Fleet ships, crewed by U.S. merchant seamen, to assist in the delivery of supplies and equipment to our troops. Under the Civil Reserve Air Fleet program, 26 commercial air carriers made 3,800 flights, carrying some 382,000 people and 163,000 tons of equipment and supplies. Throughout the conflict in the Gulf, our national highway and rail systems likewise provided timely delivery of materials to airports and seaports -- including more than 25,000 rail carloads of military equipment and munitions.
As much as we depend on a safe, convenient, and effective transportation system, such a transportation system depends on a sound infrastructure -- a network of well-built and well-maintained roads, bridges, airports, seaports, and railroad facilities. Our National Defense Transportation Policy, issued last year, has been designed with this fact in mind. Through this Policy -- and through our proposed Surface Transportation Assistance Act of 1991 -- we will strengthen our investment in the Nation's transportation infrastructure. Wise investment in maintaining and improving this infrastructure will help to create jobs while upgrading the safety and convenience of our surface, air, and water transportation.
Today we are also working to restructure our transportation system to give State and local governments the flexibility and the tools that they need to meet critical transportation requirements close to home. Achieving these and other goals outlined in our National Transportation Policy will put America well on the way to a secure and prosperous future in our increasingly complex and competitive world.
In recognition of both the importance of transportation and the millions of Americans who work to meet our transportation needs, the Congress, by joint resolution approved May 16, 1957 has requested that the third Friday in May of each year be designated as "National Transportation Day" and, by joint resolution approved May 14, 1962 that the week in which that Friday falls be proclaimed "National Transportation Week."
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim Friday, May 17, 1991, as National Defense Transportation Day and the week of May 12 through May 18, 1991, as National Transportation Week. I urge all Americans to observe these occasions with appropriate ceremonies that will give due recognition to the individuals and organizations that build, maintain, and safeguard our Nation's transportation system.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this 17 day of May, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-one, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fifteenth.

GEORGE BUSH
  