
    I would just like, informally, to say a word to His Majesty and our guests--very informally, because we spoke last night.
First, we were very glad to come here after our visit to the Soviet Union, which was important, and which we will always remember because of what we saw and what may have been accomplished.
It was good to come to a country where we saw so many friends and people who have been longtime friends, and where we felt not only the fresh air blowing off the mountains but the freshness of the people and their attitudes as we went through the streets.
We will always be grateful for that little respite after our 8 days in the Kremlin. And while the Kremlin is a great palace, to be there for 8 days is a long time.
The other thing that I would say is that we are grateful for the fact that all of our party has been received so hospitably and that His Majesty has made available this beautiful summer palace, as it is called, I understand, for our use and for this luncheon.
It is very unusual for me to stand up in a house that is not my own, or one which the Government allows me to live in for 4 years at a time, and be able to act as the host.
But this, of course, is typical of the hospitality which is legendary here, which we have learned to know over almost 20 years, and which is enriched each time we come.
Perhaps the best way it can be said-and I am not a language expert, unfortunately, and most everybody here is, being from a world of diplomacy and the rest-but the way I feel now in this position of being able to offer the informal toast to Their Imperial Majesties is the way the Spanish say it. In our country whenever we invite anybody into our house, when somebody comes in, we say, "Make yourself at home." That is the phrase. But the Spanish say it in two different ways. They will say, "Estan en su casa," or "Mi casa es su casa," which means, "My house is your house," or, "You are in your own house."
So because His Imperial Majesty and Her Majesty have been so kind to say "Mi casa es su casa," we have had a memorable 24 hours here.
We aren't able to pay the rent, but on the other hand we hope that we can show our appreciation in a very easy way for us--through that continued, deep friendship which has characterized our relations for so many years and that, perhaps, is worth more than the rent.
So I suggest we all raise our glasses to Their Imperial Majesties.
  