
    President George W. Bush today announced his decision to nominate three individuals, appoint one individual and designate one individual to serve in his Administration.
The President intends to nominate John R. Beyrle, of Michigan, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Russian Federation. Mr. Beyrle, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, currently serves as Ambassador to the Republic of Bulgaria. Prior to this, he served as Deputy Chief of Mission in Moscow. Earlier in his career, his served as Counselor for Political and Economic Affairs in Prague. Mr. Beyrle received his bachelor's degree from Grand Valley State University and his master's degree from the National War College.
The President intends to nominate Rosemary A. DiCarlo, of the District of Columbia, to be the Alternate Representative of the United States of America for Special Political Affairs to the United Nations, with the rank of Ambassador, and an Alternate Representative of the United States of America to the Sessions of the General Assembly of the United Nations. Ms. DiCarlo currently serves as Deputy Assistant Secretary in the Bureau of European and Eurasian Affairs at the Department of State. Prior to this, she served as Director for United Nations Affairs at the National Security Council. Earlier in her career, she served as Director of the Washington Office of the U.S. Mission to the United Nations. Ms. DiCarlo received her bachelor's degree, master's degree and PhD from Brown University.
The President intends to nominate Carol A. Rodley, of Virginia, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Kingdom of Cambodia. Ms. Rodley, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, currently serves as a Faculty Advisor at the Foreign Service Institute. Prior to this, she served as Counselor for Political Military Affairs at the United States Embassy in Afghanistan. Earlier in her career she served as Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for Intelligence and Research. Ms. Rodley received her bachelor's degree from Smith College.
The President intends to appoint Jan Donnelly O'Neill, of Texas, to be a Member of the J. William Fulbright Foreign Scholarship Board, for the remainder of a three-year term expiring 09/22/10.
The President intends to designate Leland A. Strom, of Illinois, to be Chairman of the Farm Credit Administration Board.
  