
    To the Congress of the United States:
I herewith transmit the following amendments to Reorganization Plan No. 1 of 1980, which I sent to the Congress on March 27, 1980.
The amendments to Reorganization Plan No. 1 are consistent with my original intent of strengthening the management of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission in order to improve safety in all of the agency's activities, while preserving the advantages of the Commission form. The amendments reinforce the purpose of the Plan in two respects. First, the amended Plan gives the Commission a greater role in selection of key program officers of the agency by adding four positions to the list of appointments initiated by the Chairman for the Commission's advice and consent. These are the Executive Director for Operations, the Director of Inspection and Enforcement, the Director of Nuclear Regulatory Research, and the Director of Standards Development. Each of these positions contributes to nuclear safety regulation, and each performs functions that help determine the policy and performance of the agency.
The Advisory Committee on Reactor Safeguards advises the Commission as a whole. Since its members serve renewable 4-year terms, another amendment provides that a Commission member, as well as the Chairman, can initiate an appointment to the Advisory Committee on Reactor Safeguards for approval by the Commission.
As a means to ensure that the flow of information to the Commission will not be restricted, the Plan has been amended to make explicit that the Chairman, and the Executive Director of Operations through the Chairman, shall keep the Commission fully and currently informed.
The second general purpose of the amendments is to provide for more effective executive management of the agency by making more explicit the responsibilities of the Chairman and the Executive Director for Operations acting under his direction. As amended, the Plan charges the Chairman with planning for the development of policy for consideration and approval by the Commission. In the past, this responsibility has not been clearly fixed and has consequently been neglected. The amended Plan continues to make clear that the Executive Director for Operations reports to the Chairman. An amendment, however, requires the Chairman to delegate to the Executive Director for Operations the authority to appoint the staff and the day-to-day administration of the agency. Under this arrangement, the Chairman retains responsibility for the delegated functions but will be better able to handle his other leadership tasks.
In summary, the amendments I am transmitting to Reorganization Plan No. 1 of 1980, based on review and hearings conducted by the Congress and on continued consultations, will help establish a more accountable central management structure for the Nuclear Regulatory Commission as it pursues its statutory objective of ensuring safety in the use of nuclear power.
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
May 5, 1980.
AMENDMENTS TO REORGANIZATION PLAN No. 1 OF 1980
Prepared by the President and submitted to the Senate and the House of Representatives in Congress assembled May 5, 1980, pursuant to the provisions of Chapter 9 of Title 5 of the United States Code.
Reorganization Plan No. 1 of 1980, which was transmitted to the Senate and the House of Representatives in Congress assembled on March 27, 1980, is hereby amended to read as follows:
NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION
SECTION 1. (a) Those functions of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, hereinafter referred to as the "Commission", concerned with:
(1) policy formulation;
(2) rulemaking, as defined in section 553 of Title 5 of the United States Code, except that those matters set forth in 553 (a)(2) and (b) which do not pertain to policy formulation orders or adjudications shall be reserved to the Chairman of the Commission;
(3) orders and adjudications, as defined in section 551 (6) and (7) of Title 5 of the United States Code; shall remain vested in the Commission. The Commission may determine by majority vote, in an area of doubt, whether any matter, action, question or area of inquiry pertains to one of these functions. The performance of any portion of these functions may be delegated by the Commission to a member of the Commission, including the Chairman of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, hereinafter referred to as the "Chairman", and to the staff through the Chairman.
(b) (1) With respect to the following officers or successor officers duly established by statute or by the Commission, the Chairman shall initiate the appointment, subject to the approval of the Commission; and the Chairman or a member of the Commission may initiate an action for removal, subject to the approval of the. Commission:
(i) Executive Director for Operations,
(ii) General Counsel,
(iii) Secretary of the Commission,
(iv) Director of the Office of Policy Evaluation,
(v) Director of the Office of Inspector and Auditor,
(vi) Chairman, Vice Chairman, Executive Secretary, and Members of the Atomic Safety and Licensing Board Panel,
(vii) Chairman, Vice Chairman and Members of the Atomic Safety and Licensing Appeal Panel.
(2) With respect to the following officers or successor officers duly established by statute or by the Commission, the Chairman, after consultation with the Executive Director for Operations, shall initiate the appointment, subject to the approval of the Commission, and the Chairman, or a member of the Commission may initiate an action for removal, subject to the approval of the Commission:
(i) Director of Nuclear Reactor Regulation,
(ii) Director of Nuclear Material Safety and Safeguards,
(iii) Director of Nuclear Regulatory Research,
(iv) Director of Inspection and Enforcement,
(v) Director of Standards Development.
(3) The Chairman or a member of the Commission shall initiate the appointment of the Members of the Advisory Committee on Reactor Safeguards, subject to the approval of the Commission. The provisions for appointment of the Chairman of the Advisory Committee on Reactor Safeguards and the term of the members shall not be affected by the provisions of this Reorganization Plan.
(4) The Commission shall delegate the function of appointing, removing and supervising the staff of the following offices or successor offices to the respective heads of such offices: General Counsel, Secretary of the Commission, Office of Policy Evaluation, Office of Inspector and Auditor. The Commission shall delegate the functions of appointing, removing and supervising the staff of the following panels and committee to the respective Chairmen thereof: Atomic Safety and Licensing Board Panel, Atomic Safety and Licensing Appeal Panel and Advisory Committee on Reactor Safeguards.
(c) Each member of the Commission shall continue to appoint, remove and supervise the personnel employed in his or her immediate office.
(d) The Commission shall act as provided by subsection 201(a)(1) of the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974, as amended (42 U.S.C. 5841 (a) (1)) in the performance of its functions as described in subsections (a) and (b) of this section.
SECTION 2. (a) All other functions of the Commission, not specified by Section 1 of this Reorganization Plan, are hereby transferred to the Chairman. The Chairman shall be the official spokesman for the Commission, and shall appoint, supervise, and remove, without further action by the Commission, the Directors and staff of the Office of Public Affairs and the Office of Congressional Relations. The Chairman may consult with the Commission as he deems appropriate in exercising this appointment function.
(b) The Chairman shall also be the principal executive officer of the Commission, and shall be responsible to the Commission for developing policy planning and guidance for consideration by the Commission; shall be responsible to the Commission for assuring that the Executive Director for Operations and the staff of the Commission (other than the officers and staff referred to in sections (1)(b) (4), (1) (c) and (2) (a) of this Reorganization Plan) are responsive to the requirements of the Commission in the performance of its functions; shall determine the use and expenditure of funds of the Commission, in accordance with the distribution of appropriated funds according to major programs and purposes approved by the Commission; shall present to the Commission for its consideration the proposals and estimates set forth in subsection (3) of this paragraph; and shall be responsible for the following functions, which he shall delegate, subject to his direction and supervision, to the Executive Director for Operations unless otherwise provided by this Reorganization Plan:
(1) administrative functions of the Commission;
(2) distribution of business among such personnel and among administrative units and offices of the Commission;
(3) preparation of
(i) proposals for the reorganization of the major offices within the Commission; (ii) the budget estimate for the Commission; and
(iii) the proposed distribution of appropriated funds according to major programs and purposes.
(4) appointing and removing without any further action by the Commission, all officers and employees under the Commission other than those whose appointment and removal are specifically provided for by subsections 1 (b), (c) and 2(a) of this Reorganization Plan.
(c) The Chairman as principal executive officer and the Executive Director for Operations shall be governed by the general policies of the Commission and by such regulatory decisions, findings, and determinations, including those for reorganization proposals, budget revisions and distribution of appropriated funds, as the Commission may by law, including this Plan, be authorized to make. The Chairman and the Executive Director for Operations, through the Chairman, shall be responsible for insuring that the Commission is fully and currently informed about matters within its functions.
SECTION 3. (a) Notwithstanding sections 1 and 2 of this Reorganization Plan, there are hereby transferred to the Chairman all the functions vested in the Commission pertaining to an emergency concerning a particular facility or materials licensed or regulated by the Commission, including the functions of declaring, responding, issuing orders, determining specific policies, advising the civil authorities and the public, directing, and coordinating actions relative to such emergency incident.
(b) The Chairman may delegate the authority to perform such emergency functions, in whole or in part, to any of the other members of the Commission. Such authority may also be delegated or redelegated, in whole or in part, to the staff of the Commission.
(c) In acting under this section, the Chairman, or other member of the Commission delegated authority under subsection (b), shall conform to the policy guidelines of the Commission. To the maximum extent possible under the emergency conditions, the Chairman or other member of the Commission delegated authority under subsection (b), shall inform the Commission of actions taken relative to the emergency.
(d) Following the conclusion of the emergency, the Chairman or the member of the Commission delegated the emergency functions under subsection (b), shall render a complete and timely report to the Commission on the actions taken during the emergency.
SECTION 4. (a) The Chairman may make such delegations and provide for such reporting as the Chairman deems necessary, subject to provisions of law and this Reorganization Plan. Any officer or employee under the Commission may communicate directly to the Commission, or to any member of the Commission, whenever in the view of such officer or employee a critical problem of public health and safety or common defense and security is not being properly addressed.
(b) The Executive Director for Operations shall report for all matters to the Chairman.
(c) The function of the Directors of Nuclear Reactor Regulation, Nuclear Material Safety and Safeguards, and Nuclear Regulatory Research of reporting directly to the Commission is hereby transferred so that such officers report to the Executive Director for Operations. The function of receiving such reports is hereby transferred from the Commission to the Executive Director for Operations.
(d) The heads of the Commission level offices or successor offices, of General Counsel, Secretary to the Commission, Office of Policy Evaluation, Office of Inspector and Auditor, the Atomic Safety and Licensing Board Panel and Appeal Panel, and Advisory Committee on Reactor Safeguards shall continue to report directly to the Commission and the Commission shall continue to receive such reports.
SECTION 5. The provisions of this Reorganization Plan shall take effect October 1, 1980, or at such earlier time or times as the President shall specify, but no sooner than the earliest time allowable under Section 906 of Title 5 of the United States Code.
  