
    The Rudy Giuliani Presidential Committee announced today Joe Jarabek will be the campaign's Executive Director for Iowa and Jennifer Hallowell will serve as Executive Director for New Hampshire. Jarabek and Hallowell will oversee all aspects of the Giuliani campaign in those respective states, from building solid grassroots organizations to promoting Mayor Giuliani's message of leadership throughout the state.
"Mayor Giuliani's vision for America is resonating with voters and generating a great deal of positive support in Iowa and New Hampshire," said Giuliani's campaign manager Michael DuHaime. "We are lucky to have Joe Jarabek and Jennifer Hallowell. They will take our momentum and build strong organizations in these key early voting states."
About Joe Jarabek
In 2006, Joe managed the targeted reelection campaign of West Virginia Congresswoman Shelley Moore Capito (WV-2). The campaign was a success, despite being a targeted race with strong opposition.
In a 2004 targeted race, Joe served as Ohio Congressman Steve LaTourette's political director in his successful bid for reelection. Joe then served as Congressman LaTourette's district outreach representative in the Congressman's district office. Joe also managed successful campaigns for State Representative Geoff Smith (24th Ohio House District) and Butler County (Ohio) Commissioner Mike Fox.
About Jennifer Hallowell
Jennifer most recently served as the Executive Director of the Indiana Republican Party overseeing the day-to-day operations of the Party. In 2006, she scripted the media effort that contributed to the Republican sweep of statewide offices electing Secretary of State Todd Rokita, State Auditor Tim Berry, and State Treasurer Richard Mourdock.
Jennifer also served as the Director of Political Strategy for Mitch Daniels' successful 2004 gubernatorial campaign. From 1995-2000, Jennifer worked for former Indiana Congressman David McIntosh in various fundraising and political capacities including Deputy Campaign Manager for his 2000 gubernatorial bid and Campaign Manager for his successful 1998 congressional campaign.
In 2005, Jennifer was the Vice President of New Market Development for Angie's List. She moved on to serve as senior advisor to Marion County Prosecutor Carl Brizzi and directed his 2006 re-election campaign, which was the only Republican countywide victory in Indianapolis that year.
  