
    SECURING OUR SEAFOOD SUPPLY CHAIN: President Donald J. Trump is taking action to secure our Nation's food supply chain by supporting American seafood production.

Today, President Trump is signing an Executive Order to increase America's competitiveness in the seafood industry and protect our seafood supply chain.
This order will instruct agencies to expand sustainable seafood production in the United States, including:

Furthering more efficient and predictable aquaculture permitting processes;
Accelerating regulatory reform to maximize commercial fishing; and
Upholding common-sense restrictions on seafood imports that do not meet American standards.


The President's order will help solidify our Nation's food security, protect American jobs in the seafood industry, and create new jobs in the United States.
President Trump is also announcing the availability of $300 million to support fishermen and related businesses hurt by the coronavirus.

EXPANDING AMERICA'S SEAFOOD INDUSTRY: President Trump's action will expand America's ability to fully utilize our vast ocean resources.

It is critical that America take steps to strengthen our seafood supply chain and bring our Nation's seafood supply chain back home.
While America has among the most extensive ocean resources in the world, our Nation ranks 17th in aquaculture production and imports roughly 85% of the seafood consumed domestically.

China's aquaculture industry is producing 100 times more seafood by weight than the United States aquaculture industry.


Burdensome over-regulations and red tape on the aquaculture industry are stifling innovation and production.
Under current regulations, small aquaculture facilities are forced to navigate an unnecessarily complex permitting process involving multiple Federal agencies.

PROTECTING AMERICA'S FOOD SUPPLY: This action builds on President Trump's commitment to ensure that Americans have a sound and plentiful food supply chain.

President Trump has taken action again and again to support America's farmers, ranchers, and food suppliers.
The President has worked tirelessly to expand markets for American agricultural goods through enacting fair and reciprocal trade deals like the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement and implementing tough tariffs.

The President has authorized billions in support to help farmers and ranchers affected by retaliatory tariffs.


President Trump has fought for our farmers at the World Trade Organization, winning multiple disputes.

  