
    To the Senate of the United States:
I transmit herewith, for the advice and consent of the Senate to ratification, two separate but closely related treaties with Canada: the Treaty between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of Canada to Submit to Binding Dispute Settlement the Delimitation of the Maritime Boundary in the Gulf of Maine Area, and the Agreement between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of Canada on East Coast Fishery Resources. Both Treaties were signed at Washington on March 29, 1979, and they will enter into force together upon exchange of instruments of ratification.
I also transmit for the information of the Senate the report of the Secretary of State with respect to these Treaties.
These Treaties will make an important contribution to good relations between the United States and Canada by resolving, in a way that is fair to both Parties, a vexing dispute over fisheries and the maritime boundary in the Atlantic which was brought to the fore when both countries extended fisheries jurisdiction to 200 nautical miles in 1977.
The maritime boundary settlement treaty provides for the delimitation of the maritime boundary in the Gulf of Maine Area by a Chamber of the International Court of Justice or, if such a Chamber cannot be constituted in accordance with the wishes of the Parties, by an ad hoc Court of Arbitration. Resolution of the maritime boundary by impartial dispute settlement has proved necessary because the two countries have not been able to agree upon the location of the maritime boundary in the Gulf of Maine Area.
The fisheries treaty contains provisions for the conservation, management and utilization of fish stocks of mutual interest off the east coast of both countries. Detailed entitlement shares for various fish stocks are set forth in the agreement, with the shares subject to review every ten years. A joint fisheries commission will be established to implement the agreement, and dispute settlement mechanisms will be included as part of the institutional framework to resolve differences that might arise in the interpretation or implementation of the agreement.
I believe that these treaties are in the best interests of the United States. The fisheries treaty protects United States interests in the important fisheries on Georges Bank; and settlement of the boundary will facilitate development of the non-living resources of the continental shelf. Further delay in resolution of these issues would be detrimental to conservation of the fishery resources and could lead to serious irritants in United States relations with Canada.
I recommend that the Senate give early and favorable consideration to these treaties and give its advice and consent to their ratification.
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
May 3, 1979.
  