
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

Unparalleled progress in agricultural production has made the United States the world's food production model. Our ability to conquer disease and advance the health and productivity of our livestock has brought animal scientists and animal production specialists from around the world to our shores to learn the secret of America's agriculture.
A major milestone in this progress was the creation of the Bureau of Animal Industry on May 29, 1884. The efforts of the Bureau, followed by its successor agencies within the United States Department of Agriculture, have resulted in great strides forward to ensure an abundant supply of safe, wholesome animal products.
In today's dynamic economy, it is difficult to remember that these high-quality, healthy animal products have not always been with us. Whenever we enjoy a meal of meat, eggs, or milk, administer a life-improving health supplement, or enjoy a fine leather or wool item, we reap the benefits of persistent hard work over the decades. Without the progress represented by the improved health and productivity of our animals, we, in the United States, would not enjoy these items as we do for a fraction of the cost often paid by the people in other nations.
On this centennial of progress in advancing the health of livestock and production of animals through research and cooperative endeavors, we salute all who have contributed to the progress we enjoy today. The sound, scientific, and humane principles which have guided those in the forefront of this century of progress continue today, not only for livestock and poultry on our farms and ranches, but also for the care and feeding of our pets and wildlife.
To emphasize the combined efforts of the Government, private sector organizations, the veterinary profession and producers to combat the health hazards experienced in the past by the animal industry, the Congress, by House Joint Resolution 526, has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation designating the week beginning May 27, 1984, as "National Animal Health Week."
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the week beginning May 27, 1984, as National Animal Health Week. I encourage all Americans to observe this week by participating in appropriate ceremonies and activities planned by government agencies, individuals, and private sector organizations and institutions throughout the country to recognize the great strides made during the past century with animal health.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this thirty-first day of May, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-four, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and eighth.

RONALD REAGAN
  