
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

This year we again observe a period of special recognition for the place of fishing, both commercial and recreational, in American life. The lore of fishing is, of course, part of American tradition, from Huck Finn to Ernest Hemingway's Nick Adams. Today fishing continues to provide enjoyment for some 60 million American sport fishermen and women and to enhance our economy in many ways.
Our natural resources offer us some of the world's most bountiful fishing. Commercial fishing supplies us with a tremendous amount of food and other products, and recreational fishing contributes some $25 billion to our economy each year and employs some 600,000 people. Fishermen know firsthand the joys of fishing—it is an ideal family activity, for instance—and realize the need for careful stewardship of our sport and commercial fishery resources. The private sector works closely with government at the Federal, State, and local levels to fund fishery conservation restoration projects throughout the States and Territories.
Fishing's countless additions to our economy, our way of life, and our attitude toward our natural resources are all excellent reasons for the American people to celebrate National Fishing Week in a spirit of appreciation for the hardworking members of the commercial and recreational fishing industries and of the place of fishing in our national history and heritage.
The Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 190, has designated the week of June 6 through June 12, 1988, as "National Fishing Week" and authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in its observance.
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the week of June 6 through June 12, 1988, as National Fishing Week. I call upon the people of the United States and government officials to observe this week with appropriate programs, ceremonies, and activities.
In Witness Whereof I have hereunto set my hand this ninth day of May, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eightyeight, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and twelfth.

RONALD REAGAN
  