
    Attorney General Tom Miller Endorses Montana Governor Steve Bullock for President
Des Moines, IA -- Today, Iowa Attorney General Tom Miller announced his official endorsement of Montana Governor Steve Bullock for President. Attorney General Miller, who endorsed President Barack Obama on his first trip to Iowa in 2007 and is traditionally Iowa's highest Democratic vote-getter, is the only Iowa Democratic statewide elected leader to endorse a candidate for President.
Iowa Attorney General Tom Miller is the longest-serving A.G. in the country. Serving Iowa for 37 years, Miller's tenure has been marked by safeguarding and expanding consumer protections, defending farmers against corporate pollution and fraud, and defending Iowa values by taking a leading role in multi-state cases against big tobacco, for-profit colleges, and bringing financial relief to homeowners in the national mortgage settlement.
"The crisis that faces our country calls for leadership with proven character, a record of success, and an ability to connect with all Americans. That's why I am proud to announce my endorsement of Steve Bullock for President," said Iowa Attorney General Tom Miller. "For 10 years since we first met, I have watched Governor Bullock proudly carry a progressive vision across every community in Montana, successfully take on the Koch Brothers and win, and prove that America is stronger when we unite together. Governor Bullock can win the Democratic nomination, beat Donald Trump, and repair our nation -- and I will be there at every step to help how I can."
"I am honored to have the support of a true friend in Attorney General Tom Miller, and I know that his 37 years serving Iowa have left a mark that will persist well into the future," said Governor Steve Bullock. "Not only will it be a personal joy to campaign alongside Attorney General Miller throughout the Caucus, but I look forward to taking our shared value of fighting for the rights of every American across Iowa and the country."
  