
    Prominent tribal officials to lead outreach efforts in Indian Country
Following Hillary's visit to Indian Country two days ago, the Clinton campaign today announced the endorsement of 22 tribal leaders in South Dakota. These supporters will help lead the campaign's outreach efforts in the Native American community over the next five days.
"I am honored to have the support of men and women who are proven and respected leaders in Indian Country," said Hillary. "I am committed to working with Native Americans in South Dakota and across the country, with complete respect and acknowledgement of tribal sovereignty, to create more economic opportunity, and tackle the health care and crime problems too many in Indian Country face."
Hillary unveiled her comprehensive South Dakota Native American Agenda last Tuesday; the following Wednesday she discussed the plan during her visit to the Pine Ridge reservation. President Clinton will also have made seven stops in Indian Country before June 3 to campaign on Hillary's behalf.
"There can be no questioning Hillary's commitment to Native Americans here in South Dakota and across the country," said Chairman Brandon Sazue, Sr. of the Crow Creek Sioux Tribe. "She has laid out specific proposals to partner with us to help tackle the challenges we face, from chronic unemployment to juvenile diabetes to a skyrocketing crime rate. She will be a President who respects tribal sovereignty and she will work to reverse the effects of seven years of neglect from the Bush Administration."
The list of Native American tribal leaders who have endorsed Hillary is below.
Lionel Bordeaux, President, Sinte Gleska University
Shawn Bordeaux, Rosebud Sioux Tribal Councilmember
Floyd Brings Plenty, Oglala Sioux Tribal Councilmember
Anthony Castaway, Rosebud Sioux Tribal Councilmember
Kim Clausen, Oglala Sioux Tribal Councilmember
Carol Crazy Thunder-O'Rourke, Oglala Sioux Tribal Councilmember
Leonard Crow Dog, Rosebud Sioux Tribe elder
Ron Duke, Oglala Sioux Tribal Councilmember
Cecilia Fire Thunder, Former Chairwoman, Oglala Sioux Tribal Council
Phillip Good Crow, Oglala Sioux Tribal Councilmember
Lewis Good Voice Eagle, Rosebud Sioux Tribal Councilmember
Scott Herman, Rosebud Sioux Tribal Councilmember
William "BeBe" Long, Rosebud Sioux Tribal Councilmember
Trent "Okie" Poignee, Rosebud Sioux Tribal Councilmember
Thomas Poor Bear, Oglala Sioux Tribal Councilmember
Francis Pumpkin Seed, Shannon County Commissioner
Lula Red Cloud
Brandon Sazue, Sr., Chairman, Crow Creek Sioux Tribal Council
Tom Shortbull, President, Oglala Lakota College and Former State Senator
Michael J. Valandra, Sr., Rosebud Sioux Tribal Councilmember
Carl Waln, Former Chairman, Rosebud Sioux Tribe
Connie Whirlwind Horse, Shannon County Commissioner
  