
    The President. Good morning. The Office of Management and Budget is one of the most important agencies in our Government. This agency has a central responsibility for implementing the full range of this administration's agenda, from growing the economy and creating jobs to ensuring a strong national defense and a secure homeland. I depend on the OMB Director to keep a watchful eye on the taxpayers' money, to reform the operations of our Government, to make them better managed, more accountable, and driven by results.
I also depend on the Director to provide honest and thorough information on the state of our budget and to offer sound advice as we carry out our national priorities. For this essential position, today I nominate one of my closest and most trusted advisers, Joshua Bolten.
For more than 4 years, first in Austin and now in Washington, I have counted on Josh for his knowledge, his clear thinking, and his sound judgment. From his work in the private sector and practice of law in the investment banking world, Josh has a broad perspective on commerce and international economy. From his experience in both the executive branch and on Capitol Hill, Josh Bolten understands the workings of the Federal Government as well as anybody in this city. And most important, from his tenure as my Deputy Chief of Staff for Policy, Josh knows the philosophy and priorities of my administration.
Josh Bolten is brilliant. He is tireless. He remains calm in any storm. He is a man of complete integrity. No member of my staff has served with greater skill or earned greater respect amongst his colleagues than Josh Bolten. I'm honored that he's agreed to join my Cabinet.
When confirmed by the Senate, Josh will take over from a superb public servant, Mitch Daniels. Mitch has watched over the budget with a sharp eye and the common sense of a strong executive. He's insisted on good management of the people's money. He's done his job with great energy and consistent good humor. I have a feeling that Mitch's days in the public service are not over. I want to thank Mitch for serving our country so very well.
And now I'm pleased to introduce my choice as the next Director of the Office of Management and Budget, Josh Bolten.
[At this point, Director-designate Bolten made brief remarks.]
The President. Thank you all. Thank you all very much.
  