
    Pool Reports by Tal Kopan, San Francisco Chronicle 



Sent:
Reports:




May 24, 202111:41

In-town pool report 1: Good morning 
Good morning on an overcast and humid (but temperate) day in Washington, D.C.
Your pooler encountered no cicadas either audibly or visually on her way in this morning, but did encounter a protest in favor of Honduran Temporary Protected Status making its way up 17th Street with both of those senses. Incidentally, the administration made a little news on TPS over the weekend and today, but not for Honduras. I tweeted a picture of the protest, albeit not a terribly good one, @talkopan.
There have been no changes to the schedule as far as the pool knows. I will send a two-minute warning for the upcoming briefing when we get one.



May 24, 202112:01

In-town pool report 2: Two min. warning for briefing 
2 min to get to your devices



May 24, 202112:06

In-town pool report 3: Briefing begins 
Psaki joined us at 12:04 p.m., and we’re underway.



May 24, 202113:01

In-town pool report 4: Briefing concludes 
Briefing concluded at 1:00 p.m.
We’re heading straight to gather for the motorcade over to FEMA.



May 24, 202113:32

In-town pool report 5: Rolling 
Pool loaded into the vans at 1:10 p.m. We are rolling for the briefing at FEMA (scheduled to start at 1:30 pm) as of 1:31 pm.
Pool did not see the president enter the motorcade, but did walk past the Beast outside the EEOB on our way, parked across a handicap space. Can tweet a pic.



May 24, 202113:38

In-town pool report 6: Arrived at FEMA 
Pool completed the short ride down Pennsylvania Ave and along 4th to FEMA HQ at 1:36 pm. Uneventful ride. No eyes on POTUS going in.It is drizzling now, and slightly chilly. We’re holding outside for now.



May 24, 202113:48

In-town pool report 7: FEMA 
Pool walked through a large room filled with FEMA staff at rows of computers with screens around the room displaying POTUS. We went into a smaller conference room with Biden at the head of the table. Attendees below via White House.
In opening remarks Biden said he will "Insist on nothing less than readiness for all these challenges" as we head into another emergency weather season.
Announcing $1B available to states, communities, tribes, etc
"We have to be ready, we have to be ready, when disaster strikes"
"It's not about red states and blue states it's about having people's backs"
"We've learned a few lessons from last year as well"
Ongoing remarks.
Participants in the briefing on the Atlantic Hurricane Outlook and preparedness efforts:
Alejandro Mayorkas, Secretary of Homeland SecurityRon Klain, Chief of StaffGina McCarthy, National Climate AdvisorLiz Sherwood-Randall, Homeland Security Advisor and Deputy National Security AdvisorDon Graves, Deputy Secretary of CommerceBill Nelson, Administrator of NASADeanne Criswell, Administrator of FEMABen Friedman, Acting Administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA)Kenneth Graham, Director for the National Hurricane CenterCaitlin Durkovich, National Security Council Senior Director for Resilience and ResponseMaryAnn Tierney, Acting Deputy Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management AgencyDeUndre Eberhart, Special Assistant, Department of CommerceColt Hagmaier, Counselor to the Secretary of Homeland SecurityJames Morrow, Program Coordination Officer, NOAA National Weather ServiceMatthew Rosencrans, NOAA Climate Test Bed Director



May 24, 202113:52

In town pool report 7a: holding at FEMA 
Remarks ended shortly after I hit send on my last report and pool was ushered out without any questions. Here is an otter (mic was not on at the beginning so may be hard to hear at first) https://otter.ai/u/NVuSkSf0SziXQoSXjyt7it92z9o
We are holding in a conference room upstairs. Will tweet a couple pictures of the scene below and transcribe a couple more quotes, but there was no real news.



May 24, 202114:10

In town pool report 7b: quotes and next steps 
Biden will be talking to employees after this, we're told.
From his remarks before (sorry for the sound of my typing in the recording). As always check against transcript:
Biden said FEMA stepped up on vaccinations and winter storms and he praised someone specifically.
"My administration is going to bring every resource to bear, every resource to bear, every time to help American people, Americans, weather emergencies. And we're going to spare no expense, no effort to keep Americans safe and respond to crises when they arise, and they certainly will. Now is the time to get ready for the busiest time of the year for disasters in America. Hurricane season in the south and east, and the fire season out west."
"I will insist on nothing less than readiness for all of these challenges. We're gonna make sure the men and women of FEMA, and our other key agencies have everything they need."
(Announces $1B in funds)
"That's gonna double the funding available from last year, and it's going to help communities, including those too often overlooked, and it's going to invest in resilience and better protect themselves to serve other climate events they're going to be facing."
Says last year was most named storms on record and expect another severe season, "perhaps in God willing, not as bad as 2020, but still quite bad. We all know that these storms are coming and we're going to be prepared, we have to be ready."
"And so it's about, not about red states and blue states, you all know that, it's about having people's backs at the toughest moments that they face, ready with food water and shelter, and more."
Biden said of FEMA: "As my mother would say, doing God's work."
"Today's briefing is a critical reminder, we don't have a moment to lose in preparing for 2021."



May 24, 202114:49

In town pool report 8: FEMA employees and vans 
 
At 2:42 pm Biden came out to the main room full of employees to talk with staff. He greeted them and shook hands. Pool was able to observe for a few minutes. TV had the best positioning, so their mics might have picked more up.
Not much was audible, but we heard "thank you," and "busy year". "Where's my desk?" He joked with one.
As he started to address employees at the mic, pool was ushered out. We could hear bits of his comments as we were herded back to the vans. This is rough notes, I will check my recording after this.
"It's not hyperbole to suggest you save people's lives, you save people's property, and you're saving their (existence) … I've asked you to do an awful lot since I became President."
"You all don't get paid that much," he said to laughter. I didn't get to hear the end of that joke.
We are back in the vans.



May 24, 202114:57

In town pool report 9: rolling 
At 2:56 we’re rolling back to the WH. No eyes on potus getting in the motorcade.



May 24, 202115:05

In-town pool report 10: back at WH 
At 3:01 pm we pulled back into the White House. Once again, we did not see Biden re-enter the White House.
The ride was uneventful. Despite some rain and drizzle, there were some onlookers taking pictures and video. What appeared to be a park ranger was standing in Freedom Plaza next to Pershing Park saluting as the motorcade passed.
Quotes still coming.



May 24, 202115:09

In-town pool report 11: Lid 
The White House called a travel/photo lid at 3:06 pm.
The signing ceremony with Alaska lawmakers is closed to the press.
Quotes to come as an addendum to report 8. Otherwise, have a great day, everyone!



May 24, 202115:14

In-town pool report 8a: Quotes 
More from the employee greeting at FEMA:
The White House says Biden was escorted by David Bibo, FEMA Acting Associate Administrator for Response and Recovery.
I'll tweet another picture (all of those pictures could be emailed upon request, if needed for whatever reason).
Quotes from his remarks (subjectively, it seemed like the President was surprised by the pool being ushered out right as he started speaking, which caused him to pause for a moment.)
"Hey everybody. Y'all got to hear, y'all got to hear the briefing I got. The main thing I wanted do was come by and thank you. And it's not hyperbole to suggest you save people's lives, you save their property, and you save their sanity. You know, I really mean it. And what's happening now is, as we talked about a little bit, speaking with the director, is that, you know I've asked you to do an awful lot since I became president. I've asked you to help everything from making sure we beat the pandemic (inaudible) … to dealing with (inaudible)… and everything in between. So I just want to say thank you, thank you, thank you, and I really mean it."
Then it becomes hard to hear over the wranglers, he made the joke about them not getting paid much to laughter, and we were escorted out of the room.




  