
    Following the Biden-Harris Administration's announcement of a new Permitting Action Plan earlier this week, industry and policy groups applauded how the plan will strengthen and accelerate Federal permitting and environmental reviews to make the most of the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law's once-in-a-generation investment and ensure projects are delivered on time and on budget.
This week's announcement is another example of how the Biden-Harris Administration is focused on implementing the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law efficiently, equitably, and transparently to create good-paying union jobs, grow our economy, invest in communities, combat climate change, and help lower costs for families.
Here's what they are saying:
Jay Timmons, President and CEO, National Association of Manufacturers: "Manufacturers welcome today's @WhiteHouse announcement of a new Permitting Action Plan. This will help accelerate implementation of the historic Bipartisan Infrastructure Law as manufacturers work to build for the future." [Tweet, 5/11/22]
D. Traux, President, American Society of Civil Engineers: "ASCE believes that the most recent plan is a step in the right direction to ensure that projects can be delivered on-time, and on-budget, while maintaining the rigorous environmental review process. ASCE appreciates the Administration's recognition that increased investment in infrastructure must also be coupled with strategic permitting reform that cuts down on red tape but still continues to provide environmental protections." [Statement, 5/12/22]
Marty Durbin, Senior Vice President of Policy, Chamber of Commerce: "Focusing on efficient federal permitting processes is critical for realizing the full benefits of the bipartisan Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act. The permitting improvements included in that law are essential to addressing our country's supply chain challenges, providing strategic minerals and materials, and meeting our energy and climate ambitions, all of which will bolster our economy." [Statement, 5/11/22]
Heather Zichal, CEO, American Clean Power Association: "The American Clean Power Association applauds the Administration's Permitting Action Plan as a critical step for ensuring that the permitting process does not unnecessarily serve as a roadblock to deploying greater levels of clean, affordable, and reliable power and achieving broader climate and economic goals. The reality is that it will be impossible for our nation to achieve these goals without expediting the time it takes to permit clean energy infrastructure." [Statement, 5/11/22]
David Stehlin, CEO, Telecommunications Industry Association: "TIA welcomes the White House's announcement of a Permitting Action Plan, and we are pleased to see the creation of a Permitting Council with broadband-sector experts to help reduce potential regulatory bottlenecks that too often slow down the deployment of broadband. Connecting underserved communities remains a top priority for the ICT industry, and we look forward to working with the Administration to make sure the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law creates American jobs building high-speed, reliable, and secure broadband networks across the country." [Statement, 5/11/22]
Christy Goldfuss, Senior Vice President for Energy and Environment Policy, Center for American Progress: "This is a smart plan to make sure that agencies, developers, and stakeholders have the tools and capacity across the government to deliver on clean energy and climate goals. Putting the time and effort into supporting the permitting process will mean better and more resilient infrastructure projects that are delivered faster. This kind of coordination is exactly what is needed to lay the foundation for a just and equitable clean energy future, and it will be key for rapid clean energy deployment when Congress passes President Joe Biden's climate investments." [Statement, 5/11/22]
  