
    Pool Reports by Hunter Walker, Yahoo! News



Sent:
Reports:




May 29, 202011:12

In Town Pool Report #1 - Good morning! 
Your pooler is at the White House and currently in lower press lined up to receive a COVID 19 test. There are at least ten people in line, which I believe qualifies the test room as DCs hottest club.



May 29, 202011:27

Town Pool Report #2- Testing 
Your pooler has received the Abbott rapid COVID test. We have been informed that no news is good news and they will only contact us about the result if it's a bad one. Your pooler is presently knocking on a wood-backed seat in the briefing room.



May 29, 202012:15

In Town Pool Report #3 - Presser 
Your pooler has asked for any guidance on a potential press conference today. We have been told updated guidance is coming imminently.
Your pooler has not received any communication about the COVID test, which hopefully means I tested very positively towards the negative.



May 29, 202012:28

In Town Pool Report #4 - lunch lid 
At 12:26 pm the White House announced a lunch lid until 1:30pm.
Updated guidance was also just sent out announcing a Rose Garden press conference for the expanded in-house pool at 2pm.



May 29, 202013:50

In Town Pool Report #5 - Rose Garden 
The pool and other reporters are set up in the Rose Garden for the president's news conference, which is scheduled for 2pm.
Your pooler will let you know when the president comes to the podium. The event is being broadcast live so please watch for further updates.



May 29, 202014:19

In Town Pool #6 - Boris Johnson call 
We are still awaiting the news conference here in the Rose Garden. The White House just passed along the following readout:
"Today, President Donald J. Trump spoke with Prime Minister Boris Johnson of the United Kingdom. President Trump and Prime Minister Johnson discussed progress on reopening the United States and the United Kingdom. The two leaders agreed on the importance of convening the G7 in person in the near future. President Trump and Prime Minister Johnson also discussed global and bilateral issues. Regarding Hong Kong, the two leaders reaffirmed the importance of the Sino-British Joint Declaration and agreed to cooperate closely in responding to any action by China that undermines the Declaration or goes against the will of the people of Hong Kong. The two leaders also discussed progress on the United States-United Kingdom free trade agreement negotiations and telecommunications security."



May 29, 202014:20

In Town Pool Report #7 - 10 minute warning 
At about 2:18 pm fhe White House announced the news conference would begin in ten minutes.
Many thanks to my colleagues who heard that one better than I did.



May 29, 202014:49

In-Town Pool Report #8 - Here's POTUS 
President Trump emerged from the Oval Office and made his way to the podium in the Rose Garden at about 2:48 pm.
He was accompanied by Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin, Secretary of State Mike Pompeo. Robert O'Brien, Robert Lighthizer and Larry Kudlow.
The news conference is now underway.



May 29, 202015:00

In Town Pool Report #9 - No questions 
President Trump left the podium and walked back into the Oval Office at 2:58 pm. He did not take questions.
President Trump ignored a slew of questions about Minnesota, China, and whether he has called George Floyd's family.



May 29, 202016:18

In Town Pool Report #10 - Gathered for roundtable 
The pool gathered by the North Portico steps at 4:15 for the upcoming roundtable with industry executives on reopening, which will be held in the State Dining Room.
We are heading inside now. Your pooler will ask the White House for details on the event and participants and will send along anything they provide.



May 29, 202016:26

In town pool report #11 - Roundtable details 
Your pooler is currently waiting outside the state dining room. The White House passed along this guidance on the upcoming roundtable:
Today, President Donald J. Trump will lead a roundtable discussion with industry leaders on reopening the American economy in the State Dining Room of the White House. President Trump built the greatest economy in American history before COVID-19 and is already at work on the "transition to greatness" to restore well-paying jobs and prosperity to all Americans.
The following individuals are expected to attend:
The White HousePresident Donald J. TrumpLarry Kudlow, Assistant to the President and Director of the National Economic Counsel Ambassador Debbie Birx, M.D., White House Coronavirus Response CoordinatorKevin Hassett, Senior AdvisorTim Pataki, Deputy Assistant to the President and Director of the Office of Public Liaison
Trump AdministrationSecretary Steve Mnuchin, Department of the TreasurySecretary Eugene Scalia, Department of Labor
External ParticipantsGeoff Ballotti, President and CEO, Wyndham Hotels & ResortsBrian Goldner, Chairman of the Board and CEO, HasbroDavid Hoffmann, CEO, Dunkin' BrandsGary Kelly, Chairman of the Board and CEO, SouthwestRodney McMullen, Chairman and CEO, KrogerOscar Munoz, Executive Chairman, UnitedBrad Smith, President, MicrosoftSonia Syngal, CEO, Gap Inc.



May 29, 202017:02

In town pool report #12 - Floyd comments at roundtable 
The pool was ushered into the state dining room at 4:53 pm. President Trump was seated at a table flanked by posters that said "OPENING UP AMERICA AGAIN." The other particpants were around the table. None were masked.
Trump began with remarks on Minnesota. This is a rough transcript please refer to the official version ans broadcasts for exact quotes.
"Our nation's deepest condolences and heartfelt sympathies to the family of George Floyd," Trump said
Trump said he asked the DOJ to expedite "the investigation into his death."
"It's a terrible thing. We all saw what we saw ... and it's very hard to conceive of anything other than what we did see," said Trump.
Trump said be "spoke to members of the family, terrific people."
"We also have to make the statement that it's very important that we have peaceful protesters," Trump continued.
Trump said he did not want the situation to "descend further into lawless anarchy and chaos." His pronounciation of Minneapolis was somewhat garbled. To your pooler, it sounded like be may have said "Indianapolis."
The presiden said it was important for the memory of George Floyd to "be a perfect memory." He also said the "looters" should not "drown out peaceful protesters."
Trump concluded his remarks on Floyd at about 4:57 pm he then discussed the roundtable which he described as one of many things the White House is doing "as we continue to safely reopen America." He decried the state of the national stockpile under the prior administration and touted his own progress fighting the "invisible enemy."
Trump is still speaking.



May 29, 202017:11

In Town Pool Report #13 - Comments on Coronavirus 
President Trump discussed the economic damage caused by the pandemic.
"We turned off the greatest economy ever and we turned it off very rapidly, very quickly," Trump said.
Trunp noted he was criticized for calling to ban some trave from China.
"We turned out to be right," Trump said.
The president said we have "a very long way to go" but there have been "very good early numbers" economically and in terms of "therapeutics."
"We're doing very well on vaccines. I think we're going to have very good answers soon," Trump said, adding, "When we have that vaccine ... we're going to be able to bring it out very, very quickly."
At about 5:04 pm, the president concluded his opening remarks and turned to the roundtable participants. The executive from Gap Inc. went first and discussed her company's efforts to come up with "safe retail protocols" and commitment to begin reopening its stores.
"Secretary Mnuchin's been fantastic," she said.
Mnuchin is speaking now.



May 29, 202017:21

In Town Travel Report #14 - More from the roundtable
Mnuchin noted the travel industry has been hit especially hard before turning to United Airlines CEO Oscar Munoz. Munoz talked about his company's procedures including HEPA filtration and requiring masks for passengers. He touted their partnerships with Clorox and the Mayo Clinic.
Munoz noted flying is a global industry that could involve regulations from around the world. He described that situation as "patchwork" not "harmonization."
"It's important that we work with your team to get that harmonization," Munoz said.
Larry Kudlow was up next. He noted the presence of Dr. Deborah Birx and said it made him want to stress that reopening must proceed safely. Kudlow then rattled off some economic indicators and described them as "green shoots" showing we are on the way towards going back to normal. 
"As we open and as the stores open we are going to see a boom in spending," Kudlow said.
Trump then piped in to agree. 
"I think so ... starting to see it. ... People are going to be surprised ... we're going to have a great third quarter," Trump said.
Jay Clayton from the SEC was up next. He expressed gratitude for the business leaders. 
Southwest Airlines CEO Gary Kelly was up next. He praised the CARES Act and said its "speed and scope" were "breathtaking."
"The CARES Act was exactly what we needed," Kelly said. 
Kelly stressed his airline's procedures and said he hoped to also "add a health screening at the TSA checkpoint."
"I think a temperature check ... would be very sensible along with a health declaration," Kelly said noting there was a temperature check at the White House.
Kelly said he was working with the TSA on this front. He also said the airline would like to see "sensible" liability protection. Kelly predicted things would be very good once we have a vaccine.
Dr. Birx was next. She said there has been good provress and also expressed hope that we can help people deal with their other healthcare issues that might go untreated during lockdowns. Birx said she wants to ensure Americans are "not only COVID free but also have all their healtchare taken care of." She noted the asymptomatic nature of COVID 19 is unique and said the proactive and increased testing has been helpful. 
"That's great," Trump said of the testing. "I wish the press would report it." 
The executive from Hasbro is speaking now and touting his factory standards.



May 29, 202017:43

In Town Travel Pool Report #15 - The Roundtable continues and questions 
The Dunkin' Donuts executive was up next and said he was representing "our great franchisees."
"Ninety percent of our restaurants have remained open during the crisis," he said. "We're very proud that we didn't have to furlough or do layoffs."
He said one crucial element for the company was being "early on safety measures.""Thank you to your, your administration, and the federal government for the PPE program," he said.
The Dunkin' exec said his "ask" was for "the second version of this that sailed through the House" to continue to move forward "cleanly" and get to Trump's desk.
Rodney McMullen, the CEO of Kroger, was up next. He noted the company has increased hiring. He pointed to Kroger's work with food banks and said we can make sure "no one goes to bed hungry." McMullen also said the company thought it was important to share its "learnings" with other companies as a business that had operated throughout the pandemic.
Kevin Hasset went next.
"Sir, I think you can sense the optimism around the room," Hasset said.
Hasset described the roundtable participants as "extraordinarily representative" of businesses around the country.
"Because you required historic policy action we got money to people who needed it," Hasset said, adding, "We're very, very bullish."
Geoff Ballotti of Wyndham Hotels came after. He said the company "remarkably remained open throughout this crisis."
"We were serving frontline workers," Ballotti added.
Ballotti praised Secretary Mnuchin for his work. He expressed support for "a temporary travel tax to spir leisure travel" and said he knew the administration "isn't in favor of that."
"Hotels are safe. They're safe because we've been safe throughrout this crisis," Ballotti said.
Ballotti said, "it's going to be a tough road back."
Trump interjected that the virus is "going away." The president said he expects "therapeutics," "a vaccine," "and maybe even a cure."
"It's going away," Trump said.
Secretary of Labor Eugene Scalia spoke next. He said the agency would "continue to respond to employee concerns" because they know not every business will handle reopening "the right way." He also expressed optimism on the employment situation and said "we've turned a corner."
Brad Smith, president of Microsoft, was the last executive to speak. He described the company's work on contact tracing.
"We want people to be comfortable using this technology we need to protect their privacy," Smith said.
Smith said another one of the "fundamental ingredients" for reopening would be the private sector having the ability to conduct tests on people who were asymptomatic.
Trump then invted the press to ask questions. He was asked about his comments about "looting" and "shooting" and if he knew the roots of the phrase.
"I've heard that phrase for a long time. I don't know where it came from or where it originated. ... I wouldnt know a thing like that," Trump said.
Trump described the phrase as "very accurate." Because "when you do have looting like you had last night" people are often shot.
Presiden Trump was asked if the new measures he announced against China are the start of a "new Cold War."
"Well, we're certainly not happy," Trump said.



May 29, 202017:55

In Town Pool Report #16 - More questions 
President Trump was asked about his conversation with the Floyd family and when it occurred. He did not say when the conversation took place.
"I just expressed my sorrow ... that was a horrible thing to witness. ... That was just a horrible thing to witness and to watch. ... It certainly looked like there was no excuse for it," Trump said.
Trump was pressed about what Floyd's family said to him.
"They were grieving," he said.
President Trump was then asked about the situation in Brazil and whether it was fair to compare his handling of coronavirus to Jair Bolsonaro's.
"The Brazilian president is a friend of mine and he's working very hard. ... He's a very good man. ... "They're having a very hard time," Trump said.
As the reporter spoke, Trump indicated he had trouble hearing her and he asked her to briefly lower her mask.
"Could you take that just for a second?" Trump said.
The reporter then asked Trump when he would lift the new travel restrictions on Brazil.
"I'd like to take the ban off as soon as we can," he said.
The president was asked if he believes "police brutality" is a problem.
"I think that police brutality is certainly something that weve been hearing about," he said, later adding, "Most of the policemen and women that I've seen have been outstanding."
Trump was asked if there were "good people" in the protests and what his message would be to black Americans and others saddened to see another African American die on video in police custody.
"Certainly there were a lot of different people and there were good people too," Trump said of the protests. "They were protesting for the right reason."
"You had a lot of people out there that were protesting out of sorrow," Trump said.
Trump also said there were others at the protests who "did a great disservice" to their city, state, and the country by engaging in violence and destruction of property.
The pool was ushered out at about 5:49 pm. President Trump remained in the dining roomwith the executives.



May 29, 202018:07

In Town Pool Report #17 - Travel/Photo Lid 
The White House called a travel/photo lid at 6:06 pm.
Hope you all are staying safe and have a great weekend.




  