
    President Bush to Nominate Seven Individuals and Appoint Fourteen to Serve in His Administration
President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate seven individuals and appoint fourteen individuals to serve in his administration.
The President intends to nominate Robert J. Battista to be a Member of the National Labor Relations Board for the remainder of a five-year term expiring August 27, 2006 and upon confirmation, designate Chairman. Battista is currently an Attorney and Shareholder with Butzel Long where he has practiced law since 1965. He has practiced exclusively in the field of employment and labor relations and has represented clients before the National Labor Relations Board and the Michigan Employment Relations Commission. He has served as a member of the Advisory Committee to the Michigan Employment Relations Commission since 1999 and is a Fellow with the College of Labor and Employment Lawyers. Battista is a graduate of the University of Notre Dame and University of Michigan Law School.
The President intends to nominate Peter Schaumber to be a Member of the National Labor Relations Board for the remainder of a five-year term expiring August 27, 2005. Schamber is currently a Labor Arbitrator in Washington, D.C. He is a member of numerous panels including the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service, the National Mediation Board, the American Arbitration Association Labor Panel. From 1987 to 1993, he was Of Counsel at Wickwire Gavin and from 1980 to 1987 he was a Partner and Director of the Litigation Department at Colton and Boykin. Schaumber earned a bachelor's degree and a law degree from Georgetown University.
The President intends to nominate Peter J. Hurtgen to be Director of the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service. Hurtgen has served as a member of the National Labor Relations Board since 1997. From 1983 to 1997, he was a Partner with the Miami law firm of Morgan, Lewis and Bockius, and from 1972 to 1983, he was a Partner with Seyfarth, Shaw, Fairweather and Geraldson. He is a graduate of Georgetown University and Georgetown University Law School.
The President intends to nominate Douglas L. Flory to be a Member of the Farm Credit Administration Board for the remainder of a five-year term expiring October 31, 2006. Mr. Flory is a farmer in Augusta County, Virginia, and business consultant. He was Executive Vice President, Corporate Secretary and Member of the Board of Directors of WLR Foods from 1989 to 1992. From 1971 to 1988, Flory was President, CEO and Director of Dominion Farm Loan Corporation, as well as Executive Vice President of Dominion Bank. He is a graduate of Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University.
The President intends to nominate Gene B. Christy to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Brunei Darussalam. A career member of the Senior Foreign Service, he is currently the Director of the Philippines Indonesia, Malaysia Brunei and Singapore Affairs in the State Department's East Asia and Pacific Affairs Bureau. His past assignments overseas include service in Indonesia, Turkey, Malaysia, Turkmenistan and Haiti. His past assignments in Washington include service as Senior Advisor in the Bureau of Economic and Business affairs on the "conflict diamonds," and Director for Southeast Asia, Australia, New Zealand and the Pacific in the Asia Office of the National Security Council. Christy is a graduate of Rice University.
The President intends to nominate Barbara Calandra Moore to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Nicaragua. A career member of the Senior Foreign Service, she has served as Deputy Chief of Mission and intermittently Charge d'Affairs in Bogota. From 1997 to 1998, she was Deputy Director of Inter-american Affairs for the United States Information Agency, where she supervised the public affairs activities of 16 embassies. From 1993 to 1997, Moore served as Counsel or for Public Affairs in Santiago. Her previous overseas assignments include service as Information Officer in Caracas, Branch Public Affairs Officer in Toronto, and Program Officer in Mexico City. Moore is a graduate of the College of New Rochelle.
The President intends to nominate Kristie A. Kenney to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Ecuador. Ms. Kenny is a member of the Senior Foreign Service and is currently senior advisor to the Assistant Secretary for International Narcotics and Law Enforcement. From 1998 to 2001, she served as the first female Executive Secretary of the State Department. Her past overseas assignments include Economic Counselor at the U.S. Mission in Geneva, Economic Officer in Buenos Aires and Consular Officer in Kingston, Jamaica. Her Washington assignments include serving as Director of the State Department Operations Center, a detailee to the National Security Council and Political-Military Officer in the Office of NATO Affairs. Moore received a bachelor's degree from Clemson University and a Master's degree from Tulane University.
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to serve as Members of the President's Cancer Panel:
LaSalle Doheny Leffall, Jr. of the District of Columbia, for the remainder of a three-year term expiring February 20, 2004, and upon appointment, designate Chair for a term of one year.
Lance Edward Armstrong of Texas for the remainder of a three-year term expiring February 20, 2005.
The President intends to appoint Dennis Schornack to be a Commissioner of the International Boundary Commission. Mr. Schornack is currently the Chairman of the International Joint Commission for the United States and Canada.
The President intends to appoint the following eleven individuals to serve as Members of the United States Holocaust Memorial Council. The United States Holocaust Memorial Council oversees the U. S. Holocaust Memorial Museum, our national institution dedicated to Holocaust remembrance and education.
The Museum has welcomed over 17 million visitors since opening in 1993.
For the remainder of a five-year term expiring January 15, 2007:
Tom Bernstein of New York is President of Chelsea Piers Management Inc. He serves as the President of the Board of Directors of the Lawyers Committee for Human Rights and Vice Chair of the Board of Directors of WNYC Radio. He is a member of the Board of Directors of the Fresh Air Fund, the Markle Foundation and the Council on Foreign Relations. From 1989 to 1998, Mr. Bernstein was a principal owner of the Texas Rangers Baseball Club.
Joel Geiderman, M.D., of California is the Chair of the Department of Emergency Medicine at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center. Dr. Geiderman presently serves on the Advisory Board of the Western Region for the United States Holocaust Museum and recently published a two-part paper on physician complicity in the Holocaust in the Journal, Academic Emergency Medicine. He is an advisory member of the Hatzalah of California and serves on the Professional Council of the Jewish Healthcare Foundation. Dr. Geiderman's mother is a survivor of the Holocaust, and he lost his maternal grandparents during the Holocaust.
Alice Kelikian of Massachusetts is an Associate Professor of History specializing in 20th Century Europe at Brandeis University and research assistant at the Center for European Studies at Harvard University. Ms. Kelikian served on the United States Commission for the Preservation of America's Heritage Abroad from 1996 to 2002.
Mervin G. Morris of California is the Chairman of Morris Management Company and founder of Mervyn's stores in San Lorenzo, California. Mr. Morris is currently a Trustee for the Palo Alto Medical Foundation and a National Trustee for the Boys & Girls Club of America. Mr. Morris is former Chairman and a current member of the Northern California Board of the American Israel Public Affairs Committee.
Alvin H. Rosenfeld of Indiana is a Professor of English and Director of the Borns Jewish Studies Program at Indiana University. He is a well-known Holocaust scholar, author and lecturer.
Ronald Steinhart of Texas is the retired Chairman and CEO of Commercial Banking Group of the Bank One Corporation. Mr. Steinhart's community involvement includes serving as a Director of the Dallas Citizen Council, the State Fair of Texas, and the Dallas Museum of Art. He serves as a Trustee of the Dallas Foundation, Temple Emanu-El Foundation, United Way Foundation of Metropolitan Dallas, Dallas Center for Performing Arts Foundation and the McCombs School of Business Foundation. He is also a member of the Executive Board of the Circle Ten Council of the Boy Scouts of America. Mr. Steinhart lost his grandparents in the Holocaust.
Mickey Shapiro of Michigan is the Co-Owner of Lautrec Limited, a Real Estate Developer and an Investor. He is the past Director of the Michigan Hoocaust Memorial Center. Mr. Shapiro was born in Germany in 1947, in a displaced persons camp and his parents are Holocaust survivors.
Sheldon G. Adelson of Las Vegas is the Chairman of the Board of Las Vegas Sands, Inc., parent company of The Venetian Resort-Hotel-Casino in Las Vegas. Mr. Adelson maintains an office in residence in Israel from which he provides venture capital to selected high-technology companies. In 1993, he and his wife established a clinic for drug abuse treatment and research at the Sourasky Medical Center in Tel Aviv, the first such clinic in Israel, and they have gone on the establish additional centers, including a clinic in Las Vegas. Mr. Adelson was an original supporter of the U. S. Holocaust Memorial Museum.
Nechama Tec, Ph.D., of Connecticut is a Professor of Sociology at the University of Connecticut at Stamford. She is the author of five books on the Holocaust: "Resilience and Courage: The Puzzle of Gender and the Holocaust," "Defiance: The Bielski Partisans", "In the Lion's Den: The Life of Oswald Rufeisen", "When Light Pierced the Darkness: Christian Rescue of Jews in the Nazi-Occupied Poland" and "Dry Tears: The Story of a Lost Childhood". Dr. Tec is a Holocaust survivor.
Sonia Weitz of Massachusetts is the Founder and Director of Education for the Holocaust Center, Boston North's Center for Study of Human Rights. She is the author of "The Poetry of Sonia Weitz," and "I Promised I Would Tell." Ms Weitz is a Holocaust survivor.
For the remainder of a five-year term expiring January 15, 2004:
Aldona Zofia Wos, M.D., of North Carolina has dedicated her life to presenting and preserving full and accurate information about the Polish citizens during World War II. Born in Warsaw, Poland, Dr. Wos is the daughter of Paul Zenon Wos, a survivor of the Flossenburg Concentration Camp who went on to rescue of others held at Concentration Camps during the Holocaust.
  