
    Cardoza previously supported Clinton
Chicago, IL — Today, United States Congressman Jim Costa (CA-20) and United States Congressman Dennis Cardoza (CA-18) endorsed Barack Obama for president. Congressman Cardoza previously supported Senator Hillary Clinton.
These endorsements mean that Senator Obama has been endorsed by 310.5 superdelegates. Obama is 59 delegates away from securing the Democratic nomination.
Congressman Cardoza said, "This is the most important election of my lifetime. While I continue to greatly respect and admire Senator Clinton and feel she has made history with her campaign, I believe that Senator Obama will inevitably be our party's nominee for President. He has proven himself to be a thoughtful, knowledgeable, and inspirational leader and will take America in a new direction, which we desperately need.
"The Bush Administration has been a huge disappointment. Mr. McCain, while certainly an American hero, represents more of the same failed Bush policies.
"I am deeply concerned about the contentious primary campaign and controversy surrounding the seating of delegates from Florida and Michigan — two states Democrats need to win in November. I will not support changing the rules in the fourth quarter of this contest through some convoluted DNC rules committee process. Yet, we must find a resolution to seat the Michigan and Florida delegates so these states' voters are represented at the Convention. I believe we need to avoid this potentially divisive situation by uniting behind one nominee and bringing the party together immediately. Therefore, I have made the decision to support Senator Obama at the Democratic Convention in my role as a super delegate."
Congressman Costa said, "It's been a long presidential primary season, and now is time to bring it to a close. I have tremendous respect for Senator Barack Obama, Senator Hillary Clinton, and all the candidates who ran for the nomination. In my opinion, it is clear that Senator Obama will be the strongest presidential nominee for the Democratic Party.
"I did not come to this decision without careful consideration. Our nation is faced with serious challenges here at home and abroad. Because the next Administration and 111th Congress will face such difficult and divisive issues involving our energy needs, greater fiscal responsibility and international security, it is imperative that we have someone who truly has the skill to bring out nation together and close the partisan divide. I believe Senator Obama has the leadership skills to bridge the differences that exist today.
"In my conversations with Senator Obama, I explained to him that our San Joaquin Valley is the number one agricultural region in the country and in the world. Before the election in November, he needs to come to our Valley and understand the water challenges we face, the diversity of our farm crops, and the combination of the wonderful ethnic communities that make up Valley families, which is truly a reflection of our nation."
Senator Obama said, "I am grateful for the support of Congressman Cardoza and Congressman Costa at this important time in our campaign. They are serving the people of California and speaking out on the issues that are critical to the people of the 18th and 20th districts — and to all Americans — like ending the war in Iraq, fighting for good jobs at home, and strengthening America's family farmers and local agriculture. I am proud to have their support today."
  