
    "We call on the regime to abandon its nuclear ambitions, change its destructive behavior, respect the rights of its people, and return in good faith to the negotiating table. -President Donald J. Trump
ONE YEAR LATER: One year after withdrawing from the Iran nuclear deal, President Donald J. Trump continues to hold the Iranian regime accountable for its malign activity.

One year ago, President Trump withdrew from the fatally flawed, one-sided Iran deal and began the process of reimposing sanctions on the terror-sponsoring regime.
Today, President Trump is imposing additional sanctions on Iran's metal sectors.

These sanctions are being imposed on Iran's iron, steel, aluminum, and copper sectors.
With this action, the United States has now imposed sanctions on Iran's top three exports – oil, petrochemicals, and metals.


The Administration is imposing tougher sanctions on Iran than ever before because the regime continues to engage in destructive and destabilizing activities.

The regime has maintained its nuclear ambitions and continues to develop its ballistic missile capabilities and support terrorism.


The United States will aggressively enforce its sanctions, and those who continue to engage in sanctionable activity involving Iran will face severe consequences.

WORST DEAL EVER NEGOTIATED: The Iran deal was a disastrous one-sided deal that failed to end Iran's nuclear program and the full range of the regime's malign activity. 

President Trump withdrew from the Iran deal because it failed to protect American national security interests and enabled Tehran's malign behavior.
The Iran deal left Iran with future pathways to pursue nuclear weapons.

The regime was allowed to preserve its nuclear infrastructure, keep enriching uranium, and continue research and development.
The deal included incomplete mechanisms for inspections and verification.
The extensive nuclear archive exposed by Israel proves Tehran pursued nuclear weapons and secretly preserved its blueprints and database to do so.




The deal failed to address Iran's wide range of malign activities, including its global terrorist campaign, unjust detention of Americans, ballistic missile development, and more.


The regime received an influx of cash because of sanctions relief that it has used to engage in and support terrorism and to destabilize the Middle East.

MAXIMUM PRESSURE CAMPAIGN: President Trump launched a strategy to address the totality of Iran's malign activities and ensure Iran is never allowed to develop nuclear weapons.

President Trump reimposed the nuclear-related sanctions that were lifted under the deal.
The President reimposed sanctions on Iran's energy, shipping, and financial sectors.
President Trump ended prior significant reduction exceptions to oil sanctions on Iran, aiming to bring Iran's oil exports to zero and deny the regime its principal revenue source.
The Administration designated Iran's Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps as a Foreign Terrorist Organization, further targeting resources it uses for its global terror campaign.
This maximum pressure campaign is working, having already denied the regime direct access to more than $10 billion in oil revenue since May 2018.
The Trump Administration will continue to apply maximum pressure on the Iranian regime until its leaders change their destructive behavior and return to the negotiating table.

  