
    Mr. Prime Minister:
Let me extend on behalf of all of our people a very warm welcome on your first visit as Prime Minister to our country.
And may I point out in that capacity that you and I have some similarities in our previous background--before you became Prime Minister and before I became President. It is my understanding from reading recent history, that you had some long experience in politics in your country, and I had a few years in mine. And in the process, both of us served as the leaders of our party in the legislative branch, in the process of moving from where we were to where we are.
So, we do have a common understanding and rapport which I felt was most helpful in our discussions this morning, as we were very frank in setting forth observations and comments concerning the situation in various parts of the world.
Our country, of course, has a tremendous indebtedness to those from your country. I understand that Amsterdam is dedicating its 700th year in 1976 and that New York City is doing the same for its 200th year.
The Dutch, of course, had a tremendous impact on New York City, for which we are most grateful. But the influence of people from your country goes far broader than the impact of several hundred years ago in New York. I have had the personal experience, as I indicated to you this morning, of exposure to and benefiting from people with a Dutch background and heritage, and I personally am indebted.
But we in America are most thankful that so many of your people came to America in various waves and for various reasons, but they did contribute, and still do, to the kind of America that I and, I think, everybody here believes is the right kind of America.
So, I thank you for the contribution. It gives to us, as a result, an understanding between the Netherlands and ourselves as we seek to move ahead in the days before us in meeting the current challenges that are as important to you as they are to us.
I am looking forward to joining you and others in a few weeks in Brussels. I believe that this gives us another opportunity to help to solidify the common aims and objectives that are important not only to the community but to Europe as a whole.
Let me assure you to the extent that words mean anything, this country--and I look around and see good Democrats and good Republicans--we are unified in this country in the strength, the solidarity, and the vision of Europe and the United States and the allies.
So, when I have the privilege of joining with you and with the others representing the NATO organization I think I can speak for all of America in saying that we believe what was established in 1951 is as strong and as viable and as effective in the years ahead.
So, if I might, Mr. Prime Minister, may I offer to you and to your health, a toast, and to the health of Her Majesty, Queen Juliana, and to the lasting friendship between our peoples.
  