
    Pool Reports by Nikki Schwab, Daily Mail 



Sent:
Reports:




May 21, 202313:14 JST

FLOTUS Pool Report No. 1 - Iwakuni Joining Forces event background
Hello from the lovely Iwakuni Marine Corps Air base. I'll be your print pooler for first lady Jill Biden's Joining Forces event today. She'll be appearing at a celebration for graduating seniors being held at Matthew C. Perry High School's football and track field. It's 77 degrees here, sunny with a bit of a breeze.
Prior to the start of the event, pop music was playing. An individual dressed as Sparky the fire safety dog was walking around. And bounce houses had been assembled for the youngsters in attendance, however they're being deflated before the first lady's arrival.
The planes the president and first lady will take back to the states are parked on nearby runways.
She's supposed to speak within the next 45 minutes. The program is just getting underway.
I'll toss in pictures from the event to my FLOTUS Dropbox here: https://www.dropbox.com/sh/lr5g4yvw2q9xt53/AAB4P9b0L4ZlHtjb7Lh6yutya?dl=0
REPORTABLE BACKGROUND FROM THE OFFICE OF THE FIRST LADY:
On Sunday, May 21st, as part of the First Lady's Joining Forces initiative, the First Lady will visit Matthew C. Perry High School, a Department of Defense Education Activity (DoDEA) school, at Marine Corps Air Station (MCAS) Iwakuni in Yamaguchi, Japan to participate in a celebration of the school's graduating seniors. The First Lady will deliver remarks and meet with U.S. military students and families in support of our nation's military-connected community serving abroad. Dr. Biden has previously visited two DoDEA schools during her time as First Lady: Naples Middle School in Italy (Oct. 2021) and Ramstein American High School in Germany (June 2021).
During her visit to MCAS Iwakuni, the First Lady will participate in a celebration for 42 graduating seniors. Over 1,100 families and students will also be in attendance for this annual tradition in the MCAS Iwakuni community to celebrate military-connected students as they prepare for their graduation ceremony on May 26th.
The First Lady will thank the military-connected students, families, and communities, and recognize the sacrifices they make while serving overseas. The First Lady will also view a student art display and highlight the support that DODEA schools provide for military-connected children in their classrooms. This art display viewing will be closed press. Throughout the visit, the First Lady will be joined by:

Lois Rapp, DoDEA Pacific Director for Student Excellence
Dr. Jacqueline Ferguson, DoDEA Pacific East District Superintendent
Latressa Renée Cobb, Principal of M.C. Perry High School

Upon arrival, the First Lady will greet:

Colonel Richard Rusnok, Jr., Commanding Officer, MCAS Iwakuni
Katharine Corbin-Rusnok, spouse of Colonel Richard Rusnok
Sergeant Major Adam Gharati, Sergeant Major, MCAS Iwakuni
Feride Gharati, spouse of Sergeant Major Adam Gharati
Mayor Yoshihiko Fukuda, Mayor of Iwakuni City
Manabu Imakyurei, Director General, Chugoku-Shikoku Defense Bureau
Rear Admiral Hiragi Takuhiro, Commander Fleet Air Wing 13

Remarks program:

Latressa Renée Cobb, Principal of M.C. Perry High School
Trinity Downing, graduating senior at M.C. Perry High School
First Lady Jill Biden

Since day one of the Biden-Harris Administration, the First Lady has prioritized military families through the Joining Forces initiative. The First Lady has visited over 25 military installations; worked with Joining Forces partners to support over 50 events with the military-connected community; and helped coordinate the Administration's efforts to increase and raise awareness of resources and support for military and veteran families, caregivers, and survivors. Through Joining Forces, the First Lady continues to support military-connected children at home and abroad, including some of her most recent engagements:

May 2023: Ahead of Memorial Day, the First Lady delivered remarks at a seminar hosted by the War Horse for Gold Star children and siblings to share the power of writing and encourage participants to tell their stories of resilience and sacrifice.
April 2023: In continuing her tradition of highlighting the experiences of military-connected children through art in the East Wing of the White House, the First Lady featured an art installation of ten 'suitcases' designed by military and veteran children to reflect their journeys as military-connected families.
March 2023: Ahead of Month of the Military Child, Dr. Biden visited Wright-Patterson Air Force Base in Greene County, Ohio, to meet with military families. During the visit, Dr. Biden toured a local Purple Star elementary school supporting military-connected children and hosted a listening session with military parents.
January 2023: The First Lady and Deputy Secretary of Defense Dr. Kathleen Hicks visited Fort Drum, New York, the home of the storied 10th Mountain Division, to meet with military spouses and community leaders to discuss improving employment opportunities for military spouses. During the visit, Dr. Biden met with military children participating in a "hearts" and crafts project at the installation's child development center. The "heart-work" was featured at the White House for Valentine's Day.
November 2022: Dr. Biden convened National Guard leaders for a roundtable discussion in the Roosevelt Room featuring children of National Guard members sharing their experiences and the role of their communities and schools in their well-being.
October 2022: The First Lady spent two days with service members and their families at U.S. Army Fort Benning, including visiting service members in basic training and hosting a roundtable with military families enrolled in the Exceptional Family Member Program (EFMP).
April 2022: The First Lady and U.S. Secretary of Education Miguel Cardona visited Knob Noster Public Schools' Whiteman Elementary School, located on Whiteman Air Force Base, home to the 509th Bomb Wing and attended Knob Noster High School's "Purple Up Pep Assembly."
October 2021: The First Lady visited Naples Middle High School, a Department of Defense Education Activity (DoDEA) school, located at Naval Support Activity Naples. Dr. Biden visited classrooms and engaged with high school students and teachers.
June 2021: The First Lady delivered prerecorded remarks at the graduation for Ramstein American High School, a Department of Defense Education Activity (DoDEA) school serving military families at Ramstein Air Force Base in Germany.

About Marine Corps Air Station (MCAS) IwakuniMCAS Iwakuni is an air station providing base-operating support for U.S. and allied forces during training, combat, or contingency operations throughout the Indo-Asia Pacific region. MCAS Iwakuni opened for operation in 1940 and is currently shared with the Japanese Maritime Self Defense Force. It is currently home to approximately half of the 1st Marine Aircraft Wing, headquartered on Okinawa, elements of the 3rd Marine Logistics Group, Navy Carrier Air Wing 5, Fleet Air Wing 31 of the Japan Maritime Self Defense Force, and other units of Japan Maritime Self Defense Force.
About Matthew C. Perry High SchoolM.C. Perry High School is a Department of Defense Education Activity (DODEA) institution located on Marine Corps Air Station (MCAS) Iwakuni. The school comprises of grades 9 through 12 with approximately 230 students along with a faculty and staff of 30 educators. The school provides a general education curriculum with college preparatory courses, various electives, and a career and technology education program for students who wish to become involved in a work environment during the school day.
About Joining ForcesJoining Forces is the First Lady's initiative to support those who also serve: military and veteran families, caregivers, and survivors. The First Lady's work and priorities of Joining Forces are guided by the life experiences and the perspectives shared during listening sessions with military-connected families.



May 21, 202314:11 JST

FLOTUS Pool No. 2 - clap out/remarks/mingling/departure
FLOTUS arrived at the venue at 1:05 p.m. local time. She's wearing her mint green floral dress and nude heels.
She walked over to the seating area for the presentation of colors. Both the Japanese and U.S. anthems were played.
Seniors then participated in what's called a "clap out." The song "Celebration" played as the students, in maroon caps and gowns, walked through the center aisle receiving high fives and applause from audience members, including kids. Dr. Biden shook hands as they walked to risers set up behind her.
Dr. Biden walked onstage at 1:17 p.m. for introductions from principal Latressa Renee Cobb and senior Trinity Downing.
She congratulated the class of 2023.
"Pump it up maroon!" she said.
"Thank goodness you said that I was worried," she said after the audience yelled it back.
Biden talked about the idyllic TV shows of her youth and said that her eyes weren't opened until she went to college.
"The world was so much more complicated," she said.
"I saw the world in all of its beautiful and complicated color," she added.
Acknowledging the fact that the graduates were the children of servicemembers, she said: "Your world has never been a sitcom on a black and white TV." Noting how they've experienced, "Walking in a lunchroom and not seeing a single familiar face."
"You are better prepared to face the future than almost anyone your age," she told the students.
She applauded the students who have decided to enlist.
"I know that you will keep serving your country in your own way," she told the others.
She ended with a poem by Walt Whitman. "I'm sure you all know it," she joked.
Full remarks below.
FLOTUS left the stage at 1:31 p.m. to take a photo with the seniors.
She mingled for awhile with audience members, including the high school band.
FLOTUS left the venue at 1:46 p.m.
The group nearest to her SUV applauded as she exited.
She's headed back to D.C.
That's it from me!
Remarks as prepared for delivery:
https://www.presidency.ucsb.edu/node/361870




  