
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate three individuals to serve in his Administration:
The President intends to nominate Mark A. Limbaugh, of Idaho, to be Assistant Secretary of the Interior (Water and Science). Mr. Limbaugh currently serves as Deputy Commissioner of the Bureau of Reclamation at the Department of the Interior. He previously served as Payette River Watermaster for Water District 65 in Payette, Idaho. Earlier in his career, Mr. Limbaugh served as Executive Director for the Payette River Water Users Association. He earned his bachelor's degree from the University of Idaho.
The President intends to nominate Henrietta Holsman Fore, of Nevada, to be Under Secretary of State for Management. She currently serves as the 37th Director of the United States Mint. Director Fore previously served as Chairman and President of Stockton Products. Earlier in her career, she worked at the United States Agency for International Development as Assistant Administrator for Asia and as Assistant Administrator for Private Enterprise. Director Fore earned her bachelor's degree from Wellesley College and her master's degree from the University of Northern Colorado.
The President intends to nominate William Alan Eaton, of Virginia, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Panama. A career member of the Senior Foreign Service, Mr. Eaton currently serves as Assistant Secretary for Administration at the Department of State. He previously served as Executive Director of the Bureau of European Affairs at the Department of State. Earlier in his career, Mr. Eaton worked in various offices in the State Department, including the Office of the Deputy Secretary, Under Secretary for Management and the Assistant Secretaries for Administration and Diplomatic Security. He has also served in various positions at U.S. Missions in Guyana, the Soviet Union, Italy, and Turkey. He earned his bachelor's degree from the University of Virginia.
  