
    Newark, NJ – Today, Cory 2020 announced additional key members of his national campaign team. The staff are based in Cory 2020’s Newark, NJ, national headquarters and where they work alongside other key members of the Cory 2020 team.
Jenn Brown, Deputy Campaign Manager, States (@jennb_jennb). Brown oversees organizing and our state operations. She most recently served as the Executive Director of Civic Nation and previously served as the Executive Director of Battleground Texas.
Bridgit Donnelly, Chief of Staff, Innovation (@bridgitd). Donnelly most recently served as the Director of Data and Analytics for the Public Engagement Unit for the City of New York. Prior to joining city government, she spent seven years in a variety of campaign roles, including as the Early Vote Data Lead & Data Science Project Manager for Hillary Clinton's 2016 presidential campaign.
Michael Fisher, Chief Technology Officer (@michaelefisher). Fisher most recently served in engineering leadership at Casper. Previously, Fisher served as an Engineering Manager at the Democratic National Committee and led the Site Reliability Engineering team on Hillary Clinton's 2016 presidential campaign.
Jen Kim, States Chief of Staff. Kim most recently served as the Program Director for a national, non-partisan campaign focused on increasing voter registration rates in communities of color. Kim previously led advocacy efforts to protect communities from toxic chemicals, improve public transportation, and increase youth voter participation with the State PIRGs for nearly a decade, including four years as the Director of the New Jersey Public Interest Research Group (NJPIRG).
Jenna Kruse, Research Director (@JennaKruse). Kruse most recently served as Vice President of Research at EMILY's List. Prior to that, Kruse served as the Deputy Director of Strategy at the DCCC’s independent expenditure and Research Director for Sen. Brian Schatz, amongst other campaign roles.
Sobaika Mirza, Director of Human Resources (@TheSobaika). Mirza most recently served as Senior Operations Officer at Avaaz.
Emily Norman, Chief Innovation Officer. Norman oversees technology, analytics, and opinion research as the Chief Innovation Officer. She most recently led and worked on analytics teams at the DSCC, DNC, and Obama's 2012 reelection campaign. Norman previously founded the analytics practice at the political polling firm Global Strategy Group and has also served as an analytics and technology consultant to EMILY’s List, the AFL-CIO, and Hillary Clinton's 2016 presidential campaign.
Amanda Perez, Policy Director. Perez most recently served as the policy director at the National Domestic Workers Alliance. Perez previously served as policy director for the U.S. Senate Democratic Policy and Communications Committee.
Marquita Sanders, Director of Scheduling and Advance (@MarquitaVS). Sanders previously served as GOTV Director for Mike Espy’s run for U.S. Senate. Sanders was previously an Account Executive at campaign strategy firm Deliver Strategies, and an Obama campaign and administration staffer from 2007-2016.
Adam Topper, Director of Scheduling. Topper has worked with Senator Cory Booker for over five years, most recently serving as his Director of Scheduling in his Senate office.
Simon Vance, Chief Analytics Officer (@simonnvance). Vance served as the Deputy Campaign Manager for Rich Cordray for Ohio and as the National Targeting Director & Iowa Caucus Analytics Director for Hillary Clinton’s 2016 presidential campaign. Vance previously worked for Sen. Booker’s first campaign for US Senate in 2013 and on Barack Obama’s 2012 re-election campaign in Ohio.
Josh Wolf, Chief Operations Officer. During the past seven years, Wolf served as the Director of Operations for the Mozilla Foundation and Director of Operations for MoveOn.org. In addition to his career in operations, Wolf has a decade of campaign experience as an organizer, campaign consultant, director of reporting and special projects, and director of data and technology.
Judy Zamore, Chief Financial Officer (@jzamore). Zamore is the founder and CEO of Capitol Compliance Associates and serves as treasurer for a number of campaigns and political committees.
  