
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
May 27
In the morning, the President traveled to Arlington National Cemetery in Arlington, VA, where he laid a wreath at the Tomb of the Unknowns. In the afternoon, he returned to Washington, DC.
May 28
The President announced the nomination of Keith R. Hall to be Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Space.
The President announced the nomination of Heidi Schulman as a member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for Public Broadcasting.
The President announced his intention to appoint Bruce D. Judd to the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation.
In the evening, the President and Hillary Clinton attended a reception for Hispanic leaders on the South Lawn.
May 29
In the morning, the President met with Democratic Governors in the Cabinet Room to discuss Medicaid.
In the afternoon, the President attended the Vice President's meeting with Foreign Secretary Malcolm Rifkind of Great Britain in the Vice President's office to discuss the Northern Ireland peace process.
The President announced his intention to nominate Doris B. Holleb to the National Council on the Humanities.
May 30
In the morning, the President traveled to New Orleans, LA, and in the afternoon, he traveled to Baton Rouge.
In the evening, the President attended a reception hosted by Gov. Mike Foster at the Governor's Mansion. He then returned to Washington, DC, arriving after midnight.
May 31
In the afternoon, the President had telephone conversations with Prime Minister-elect Binyamin Netanyahu and outgoing Prime Minister Shimon Peres of Israel.
The President announced his intention to appoint Josh S. Weston; James W. Wetzler; Robert M. Tobias; Larry Irving, Jr.; and Edward S. Knight as members of the National Commission on the Restructuring of the Internal Revenue Service.
The President announced the interim appointment of Johnny H. Hayes as a member of the Board of Directors of the Tennessee Valley Authority. Mr. Hayes was nominated on March 28, 1996, and his nomination is pending before the United States Senate.
  