
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate five individuals to serve in his Administration:
The President intends to nominate Edmund S. Hawley, of California, to be an Assistant Secretary of Homeland Security (Transportation Security Administration). Mr. Hawley currently serves as a supply chain technology consultant. He is also a member of the Federal Aviation Administration Air Traffic Services Committee. Mr. Hawley previously served as Vice President of Transportation Services for Union Pacific Railroad in Omaha, Nebraska. Earlier in his career, he was Deputy Assistant Secretary and Executive Director of Governmental Affairs for the Department of Transportation. Mr. Hawley earned his bachelor's degree from Brown University and his J.D. from the University of Virginia Law School.
The President intends to nominate Jill L. Sigal, of Wyoming, to be an Assistant Secretary of Energy (Congressional and Intergovernmental Affairs). Ms. Sigal currently serves as Acting Assistant Secretary of Energy in the Office of Congressional and Intergovernmental Affairs. She previously served as President of Jill Sigal Associates, developing and implementing legislative strategies on environmental issues. Earlier in her career, Ms. Sigal worked in the Office of General Counsel at the Department of Energy. She received her bachelor's degree from the University of Vermont and her J.D. from The George Washington University.
The President intends to nominate James M. Derham, of Virginia, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Guatemala. A career member of the Senior Foreign Service, Mr. Derham currently serves as Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary of State in the Bureau of Western Hemisphere Affairs. He previously served as Deputy Chief of Mission in Mexico City, Mexico and in Brasilia, Brazil. Earlier in his career, Mr. Derham was Director of the Office of Bilateral Trade at the Department of State. He earned his bachelor's degree from Fordham University, his first master's degree from The George Washington University and his second master's degree from Harvard University.
The President intends to nominate Robert Johann Dieter, of Colorado, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Belize. Mr. Dieter currently serves as Director of Clinical Programs and Clinical Professor of Law at the University of Colorado School of Law. He previously served as the Director of the University's Legal Aid and Defender Program. Earlier in his career, Mr. Dieter was Deputy District Attorney for the 7th Judicial District, Colorado. He received his bachelor's degree from Yale University and his J.D. from the University of Denver School of Law.
The President intends to nominate Rodolphe M. Vallee, of Vermont, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Slovak Republic. Mr. Vallee has served as Chairman and CEO of R. L. Vallee, Inc. in Colchester, Vermont since 1989. He is also a former member of the Advisory Committee for Trade Policy and Negotiations. Mr. Vallee previously served as Vice President of Catalyst Waste-to-Energy Corporation. Earlier in his career, he worked for U.S. Senator Robert Stafford. He received his bachelor's degree from Williams College and his master's degree from the Wharton School of Business, University of Pennsylvania.
  