
    To the Congress of the United States:
I am pleased to transmit to the Congress, pursuant to section 123 d. of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended (42 U.S.C. 2153(d)), the text of the proposed Agreement for Cooperation Between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of the Republic of Finland Concerning Peaceful Uses of Nuclear Energy and accompanying annexes and agreed minute; my written approval, authorization and determination concerning the agreement; and the memorandum of the Director of the United States Arms Control and Disarmament Agency with the Nuclear Proliferation Assessment Statement concerning the agreement. The joint memorandum submitted to me by the Secretaries of State and Energy, which includes a summary of the provisions of the agreement, and the views and recommendations of the Members of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission and the Director of the United States Arms Control and Disarmament Agency are also enclosed.
The proposed revised agreement with Finland has been negotiated in accordance with the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Act, which sets forth certain requirements for new agreements for peaceful nuclear cooperation with other countries. In my judgment, the proposed agreement for cooperation between the United States and Finland, together with its accompanying agreed minute, meets all statutory requirements.
The proposed agreement reflects the desire of the Government of the United States and the Government of Finland to confirm and refine a framework for peaceful nuclear cooperation between our two countries in a manner which recognizes both the shared non-proliferation objectives and the friendly and harmonious relations between the United States and Finland. The agreement will in my view further the non-proliferation and foreign policy interests of the United States.
I have considered the views and recommendations of the interested agencies in reviewing the proposed agreement and have determined that its performance will promote, and will not constitute an unreasonable risk to, the common defense and security. Accordingly, I have approved the agreement and authorized its execution.
Under current law, this agreement may be brought into force upon the completion of 60 days of continuous session of the Congress. However, the pending Export Administration Act reauthorization bill would revise the procedures in sections 123 and 130 of the Atomic Energy Act for bringing the agreement into force. If these amendments are enacted in their current form before the completion of the 60-day period provided for in current law, this agreement will not be brought into force until an additional 30 days of continuous session has passed, in keeping with the intent of the proposed amendments. In that case, this submittal shall constitute a submittal for purposes of both section 123 d. of the Atomic Energy Act and section 123 b. as it is proposed to be amended. The Administration is prepared to begin consultation with the Senate Foreign Relations and House Foreign Affairs Committees on the proposed agreement immediately.
RONALD REAGAN
The White House,
May 21, 1985.
  