
    Memorandum for the Secretary of Transportation
Section 6 of the Bus Regulatory Reform Act of 1982 imposed a moratorium on the issuance of certificates or permits to motor carriers domiciled in, or owned or controlled by persons of, a contiguous foreign country. The Act authorized the President to remove the moratorium in whole or in part for any country or political subdivision thereof upon determining that such action is in the national interest. Sixty days' advance notice to the Congress is required whenever the removal or modification applies to a contiguous foreign country or political subdivision thereof that substantially prohibits the granting of motor carrier authority to persons from the United States.
I am pleased that an agreement between the United States and Mexico has been concluded to ensure fair and reciprocal treatment for charter and tour bus interests on both sides of the border. The agreement reached, however, does not allow for full access to cross-border and domestic markets. Therefore, the moratorium must reflect the conditions under which operating authority may be issued to Mexican charter and tour companies under the agreement.
Pursuant to section 6 of the Bus Regulatory Reform Act of 1982, 49 U.S.C. section 10922(l)(2)(A), I hereby make a limited modification to the moratorium imposed by that section and all actions taken by my predecessors under that section on the issuance of certificates or permits to motor carriers domiciled in, or owned or controlled by persons of, a contiguous foreign country.
The moratorium is modified only to authorize the Interstate Commerce Commission to grant Mexican motor carriers authority to transport passengers in charter or special operations, in foreign commerce, in round trip or one-way service between Mexico and the United States pursuant to the following restrictions:
1. The Mexican motor carrier can conduct cross-border charter or special service in the United States only when the international tour or charter begins in Mexico;
2. Tickets or tour packages for such operations cannot be sold in the United States; and
3. The terms of the grants of authority given to Mexican motor carriers will be limited by the life of the agreement with Mexico covering reciprocal cross-border charter and special operations.
This action applies only to international charter and tour operations, does not allow for point-to-point service within the United States, and does not authorize companies to conduct cross-border regular route service. This action preserves the status quo with respect to Mexican trucking companies and Mexican companies engaged in regular route service, and will maintain the moratorium on those operations through September 25, 1994, unless earlier revoked or modified.
Accordingly, you are directed to notify the Congress today on my behalf that, effective 60 days hence, the moratorium will no longer be in effect for Mexican charter and tour bus companies subject to the above stated conditions. Because of this action, the Interstate Commerce Commission will then accept and process expeditiously all applications for operating authority from Mexican owned, controlled, or domiciled charter and tour bus firms. I should note that applications in Mexico by United States charter and tour bus firms will be similarly treated.
You are hereby authorized and directed to publish this determination in the Federal Register.
WILLIAM J. CLINTON
THE WHITE HOUSE,
Washington, May 6, 1993.
  