
    Yesterday, President Biden released his budget for fiscal year 2022, a proposal that delivers on his commitment to grow the economy, create jobs, and do so responsibly by requiring the wealthiest Americans and big corporations to pay their fair share.
The budget lays out the essential investments in the President's historic plans—the American Jobs Plan and the American Families Plan—and reinvests in education, research, public health, and other foundations of our country's strength.
In his message to Congress, the President wrote, "The Budget invests directly in the American people and will strengthen our Nation's economy and improve our long-run fiscal health. It reforms our broken tax code to reward work instead of wealth, while also fully paying for the American Jobs Plan and the American Families Plan over 15 years. It will help us build a recovery that is broad-based, inclusive, sustained, and strong. And it will demonstrate to the American people that we value them and that we recognize that they are the key to our shared prosperity; that their Government sees them, hears them, and is able to deliver for them again."
The announcement was met with praise from lawmakers, economists and leaders across the country, who championed the proposal as essential to the administration's larger efforts to strengthen American families and communities, and the systems that support them.
See below for what they are saying:
Members of Congress
Speaker Nancy Pelosi: "A federal budget should be a statement of our national values. President Biden's budget is an unequivocal declaration of the value that Democrats place on America's workers and middle class families, who are the foundation of our nation's strength and the key to Build Back Better. The Biden budget makes historic investments in the American workforce and economy. It does so by seizing a once-in-a-generation opportunity to create millions of good-paying Americans jobs, supercharge America's global competitiveness and power growth for generations to come. After years of severe underinvestment, as our nation recovers from pandemic and economic crisis, now is the time to launch an ambitious and powerful blueprint for success with the American Jobs and Families Plans. We will lower prescription drug costs and strengthen Medicare, Medicaid and the Affordable Care Act, while taking transformative action for families to lower child poverty and make improvements in housing, child care and other vital lifelines for families. Congressional Democrats look forward to working with the Biden-Harris Administration to enact this visionary budget, which will pave the path to opportunity and prosperity for our nation. The Biden Budget is a budget For The People." [Statement, 5/28/21]
House Majority Leader Steny H. Hoyer (MD): "The President's budget released today represents a substantial investment in the American people, our economic competitiveness, our national security, and our effort to secure justice and equality for all. It would fund major initiatives outlined by President Biden to rebuild and expand America's infrastructure and create millions of good jobs. It would also provide help for families struggling to afford child care and housing, all while making it easier for Americans to access higher education and skills training. Moreover, it recognizes the essential role that tackling climate change will have in growing our economy and making our country and our planet safer and healthier for future generations. In short, the President's budget aims to marshal the resources of our country toward the critical goal of making our economy work for every American. Unlike Republican budgets in recent years, President Biden's investments are fully paid-for over the long term. The policies in this budget will result in declining deficits within the first ten years, and in the second ten years it reduces deficits by over $1 trillion. Instead of insisting on failed trickle-down policies, the President's budget focuses on growing our economy from the middle out, rebuilding our middle class by making opportunities more accessible to all. It keeps Democrats' promises to build an economy that advantages work over wealth, and it will place us, ultimately, on a more sustainable fiscal path. It was President Biden, back when he served in the Senate, who said: 'Don't tell me what you value. Show me your budget, and I'll tell you what you value.' President Biden has done exactly that. We can see clearly that his Administration values working families, public health and safety, equity in access to opportunities, a strong national security, and an economy ready to turn the climate crisis into an opportunity for growth. As the House Appropriations Committee continues its work, the President's budget will serve as a guide, and I look forward to continuing to work closely with Chairwoman DeLauro and with leaders from the Biden-Harris Administration to ensure that Congress and executive branch are partnering to deliver results for the people." [Statement, 5/28/21]
Kentucky Representative John Yarmuth, Chair of the House Budget Committee: "President Biden has proposed a transformative budget that will ensure we emerge from these past 14 months of crisis stronger and better prepared for the future than ever before. With critical investments in job creation, clean energy, infrastructure, education, child care, public health, and more this budget will bring our country into the 21st century and ensure every family has the opportunity to succeed. For too long, self-inflicted austerity has been mistaken for fiscal responsibility, to the detriment of American families and our nation's economy. The Biden budget ends this era of chronic underinvestment in America's potential, and addresses deficits in our communities that have been exposed and exacerbated by the pandemic. Investing in the American people has always been a good bet, but with interest rates low and the need high, it's a sure thing. As past crises have shown, doing too little will cost us far more in the end. Now is the time to build on the successes of the American Rescue Plan by prioritizing these visionary reforms and investments that truly meet the needs of our communities and put our nation on a fiscally responsible path forward. I look forward to working with the Biden Administration, leadership, and my colleagues to deliver these long-overdue investments and lay the groundwork for prosperity for generations to come." [Statement, 5/28/21]
Congressman Don Beyer, Chairman, Joint Economic Committee: "President Biden's budget provides a clear blueprint for building a more equitable economy in the wake of the global pandemic. The Administration's plan, as outlined in the budget, would boost investments critical to spur economic growth, create greater financial stability for working families, and address long-standing systemic issues including racial injustice and climate change. "The President's proposal would reverse the long-running trend of chronic disinvestment in our country, which has worsened racial economic inequality, perpetuated the gender pay gap, and made it more difficult for working Americans to get ahead. "Importantly, the budget provides a clear path to help finance these critical investments through tax proposals that would make our tax system fairer—closing tax loopholes, ensuring that corporations and the wealthiest pay their fair share, and enforcing existing tax laws on the books. "With our economy growing at an annualized rate of more than 6% so far this year, now is the right time to commit to sustaining broadly shared growth through the long term investments outlined in the budget and Families and Jobs plans. Historically low interest rates both reduce the burden of our debt and highlight the opportunities that we have to invest in public goods like the health and human capital of our people. "However, millions of Americans remain uncertain about their own economic futures. The United States has the economic capability of meeting the moment, and the President's budget outlines a clear path to get there. Responsibility now lies with lawmakers in Congress to adopt the principles stated within this budget that will ensure our nation becomes even more prosperous in the years to come and that more Americans can equitably share in that prosperity." [Tweet, 5/28/21]
Congressman Richard Neal: "President Biden's budget makes crucial investments to get our economy back on track and help all people—including our country's most vulnerable populations—live healthier, more prosperous lives. It includes infrastructure initiatives that will create quality, good-paying jobs and ensure that America is rebuilding in a manner that is smarter, greener, and safer for future generations. From modernizing our nation's roads and bridges to bolstering our education and public health sectors, we will set America up for long-term success. By expanding access to child care and supporting working families, we will create a stronger, more inclusive economy that advances financial security, opportunity, and equity for all Americans. The road to full recovery from the COVID crisis is long and challenging, but fortunately, this President is willing to make the bold investments necessary to put our country on a sustainable and secure path forward. Ways and Means Democrats will consider the administration's proposals carefully and look forward to working together to achieve our shared goals." [Statement, 5/28/21]
Congressman Anthony Brown: "I'm glad to see Pres Biden's commitment to both defense and non-defense investment and I will continue to be champion for these initiatives in Congress We will rebuild our country, advance equity, make our country safer and keep our sacred promise to all those who serve." [Tweet, 5/28/21]
Congressman Kathy Castor: "@POTUS Biden's budget meets this urgent moment and provides the resources needed to help communities, families, schools & businesses recover + thrive. I look forward to working with President Biden to pass a budget that fosters American prosperity, innovation and opportunity." [Tweet, 5/28/21]
Congressman Adam Smith: "As we continue to recover from the COVID-19 pandemic, income inequality continues to grow and many Americans still struggle to find job opportunities, put food on the table for their families, and get the health care they need. Building a thriving, inclusive economy demands a major investment in workers, families, and innovative, sustainable solutions to some of our biggest challenges. President Biden's budget makes clear his priorities to upgrade the nation's infrastructure to meet the needs of the 21st century, support individuals and families by increasing investments in critical social programs, and take long-overdue action to address climate change. "The budget President Biden laid out today would expand economic opportunities for all Americans through policies that fund child care, expand and improve the earned income tax credit and child tax credit, and increase access to education and job training. Historic and systemic disinvestment in these federal programs disproportionately harms the same communities that have been hit hardest by the pandemic – working people, those with low incomes, and communities of color. By investing in education, modernizing infrastructure and the electrical grid, broadband expansion, advancing comprehensive immigration reform, and addressing the climate crisis, this budget helps create equitable opportunities and lays the foundation for a more prosperous future for all Americans. "Americans understand that the economy left far too many people behind even before the pandemic. As we reach an inflection point following the success of the American Rescue Plan, we cannot afford to return to the status quo of what was not working. I am committed to working with my colleagues to build off of the President's vision to enact policies that promote economic opportunity, reduce income inequality, and create jobs following one of the most consequential and difficult years in history." [Statement, 5/28/21]
Congresswoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz: Let's make a bold statement about what we value, by revitalizing America's economy & building up its middle class. The FY22 #BidenBudget does that by proposing historic investments in:ClimateCreationEducationInfrastructurePublic Health." [Tweet, 5/28/21]
Congresswoman Stacey Plaskett: For all of the progress we've already made, we cannot simply return to the way things were before the pandemic & economic downturn. With the proposed investments in the FY22 #BidenBudget, we can build a new economy that invests in the promise & potential of all Americans." [Tweet, 5/28/21]
Congressman Bobby Scott: "The #BidenBudget is a blueprint for expanding opportunity and strengthening our economy. It proposes smart, significant investments in education, child care, health care, workforce training, and other key priorities that would improve the lives of Americans across the country." [Tweet, 5/28/21]
Congressman Albio Sires: "President Biden's FY 2022 budget is a bold plan that makes crucial investments in our economy and in our middle-class. These much-needed funds will help America compete in the 21st century while creating new opportunities for families across the country." [Tweet, 5/28/21]
Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro: "With his fiscal year 2022 budget, President Biden is setting the United States on the course for broad and inclusive prosperity. The overall increase of 16 percent in domestic spending – including a 41 percent increase for the Department of Education, a 23 percent increase for the Department of Health and Human Services, and a 22 percent increase for the Environmental Protection Agency – will make a tremendous difference in the lives of working families, the middle class, and the vulnerable. And, in recognition that every American has a stake in our prosperity, the budget builds a more equitable tax system, where big corporations and the wealthy pay their fair share and where the government cracks down on the biggest corporations paying no taxes. "The budget has a relentless focus on creating jobs and expanding opportunity for all, including with a historic $20 billion increase for high-poverty schools, more subsidized child care places and Head Start slots, and a $400 increase in the maximum Pell Grant. To protect workers on the job, the budget includes a $304 million increase to protect wages, benefits, and rights. And to strengthen the safety net, the budget will unlock Housing Choice Vouchers for 200,000 more families and support nutrition assistance and expanded local food systems with nearly $4 billion in new funding. "The coronavirus pandemic has exposed the deep fraying of our public health infrastructure. This budget begins to rebuild it, with record funding of $8.7 billion for the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. It also directly addresses the most pressing public health crises, with $10.7 billion for opioid research, prevention treatment, and recovery, $1.6 billion for the Community Mental Health Services Block Grant, $200 million for maternal health, and $200 million for gun violence research. I am also pleased that the budget strikes the Hyde Amendment, which is a major obstacle to low-income women receiving safe, affordable reproductive health care. "We cannot prepare for a brighter future without addressing the existential threat of climate change, and this budget makes important investments to create jobs as we meet this challenge. The whole-of-government effort emphasizes climate research, clean energy technologies that create jobs and economic growth, and environmental remediation efforts that require good-paying union jobs as we clean up communities that have been left behind for far too long. "As we strengthen our nation at home, we must also restore our place in the world. The discretionary budget funds the mix of defense, diplomacy, and development that the Pentagon says is needed to counter our adversaries, mobilize global action on climate change and other pressing challenges, and support the world's most vulnerable people. "The Appropriations Committee will turn this blueprint into funding bills that meet this historic moment. We are ready to get to work delivering the help the American people so desperately need." [Statement, 5/28/21]
Congresswoman Nikema Williams: "Today, @POTUS Biden announced his budget that #cancels the Hyde Amendment - a decades-old ban on federal funding for abortion. Activists and organizers have worked tirelessly for this major step to advance #ReproductiveJustice. This is what leadership looks like. #BidenBudget." [Tweet, 5/28/21]
Congressman Andy Levin: "This is a moment unlike any in our lifetimes. We need to rebuild our outdated infrastructure, our middle class & our economy, so it works for everyone. The president's budget shows he's ready to meet that moment!" [Tweet, 5/28/21]
Congresswoman Sara Jacobs: "We can't tinker around the edges any longer, we need to go big and bold. We need to invest in our country's future and invest in the American people. That's what the @WhiteHouse budget is all about." [Tweet, 5/28/21]
Congresswoman Julia Brownley: "Today, @POTUS made unprecedented progress for reproductive justice by proposing an end to the Hyde Amendment in his FY2022 Budget Request. It is now up to Congress to end this dangerous policy that limits access to care. #BeBoldEndHyde" [Tweet, 5/28/21]
Congressman Mike Quigley: "As a member of @AppropsDems and Chair of the Financial Services and General Government Subcommittee, I welcome @POTUS 's budget and his priorities and I look forward to working with the White House to advance them." [Tweet, 5/28/21]
Congressman Jerry Nadler: "After years of regressive governance, it's difficult to overstate how refreshing it is to have a President eager to invest in America and willing to protect our most vulnerable. This budget isn't perfect but it sets the foundation to #BuildBackBetter." [Tweet, 5/28/21]
Senators
Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.), Chairman, Senate Budget Committee: "The budget that President Biden has submitted to Congress constitutes the most significant agenda for working families in the modern history of our country. At a time when more than half of our people are living paycheck to paycheck and tens of millions of Americans continue to struggle, the President's budget would create millions of good-paying jobs and substantially improve the lives of working families, children, the elderly, the sick and the poor. Among many other transformative proposals, I am delighted that the President's budget includes an expansion of Medicare so that older Americans finally receive the vision, hearing and dental care that they deserve. The President's budget also takes on the greed of the pharmaceutical industry by substantially lowering the outrageous price of prescription drugs. As the Chairman of the Budget Committee, I look forward to working with the Administration and my colleagues to write and to pass a reconciliation package that builds upon President Biden's proposal as soon as possible. As a first step in that process, the Budget Committee will soon be holding a hearing on the President's budget." [Statement, 5/28/21]
Sen. Patty Murray: "A budget is a reflection of our values and priorities—so I'm glad @POTUS 's budget lays out a plan for making sure our economy actually works for working families, and not just those at the very top. These investments will help so many people across Washington state." [Tweet, 5/28/21]
Sen. Tammy Duckworth: "To Democrats, working families come first. That's what President Biden's budget proposal outlines. Because we know when working families have what they need to succeed, our nation thrives." [Tweet, 5/28/21]
Sen. Dick Durbin: "If America wants to lead the 21st century, we can't be afraid of investing in our people. Pres. Biden's budget prepares workers for the jobs of the future, rebuilds our infrastructure, gives families & children a foundation for success, & protects our public health & environment." [Tweet, 5/28/21]
Leading economists
Bob Greenstein, Founder and CEO, Center on Budget and Policy Priorities: Having followed Presidents' budgets for >40 years, I think it's fair to say that while I might modify some things in the new Biden budget, it would, if enacted, do more to reduce poverty and inequality than any other budget in modern US history. [Tweet, 5/28/21]
Sharon Parrott, President, Center on Budget and Policy Priorities: President Biden's new budget proposal provides our first comprehensive view of the Administration's aggressive agenda for addressing many of the nation's long-standing problems — exposed and exacerbated by the pandemic — and building toward a more equitable economy where everyone can thrive. Its policies are designed to make significant progress in reducing racial and ethnic disparities, rooted in racism and other forms of discrimination, that for generations have resulted in deeply unequal access to jobs, education, housing, and health care…Our nation faces significant challenges, which the pandemic has both worsened and laid bare. It is time for an ambitious effort to tackle them. The President's budget meets this moment and Congress should move swiftly to craft legislation that acts on this agenda." [Statement, 5/28/21]
Advocacy groups
Pro-Choice Caucus: "Great news: for the first time in decades, @potus has submitted a budget free from the discriminatory Hyde Amendment! Now it's time for Congress to answer his call and advance funding bills without Hyde and other dangerous abortion bans and restrictions. #BeBoldEndHyde" [Tweet, 5/28/21]
National Education Association President Becky Pringle: "President Joe Biden often says, 'Show me your budget, and I'll tell you what you value.' Today, by releasing his budget that includes historic investments in America's students, working families, and public education, President Biden is showing us once again how much he values our public schools and institutions of higher learning. President Biden knows that all our students — Black and white, Native and newcomer, Hispanic and Asian alike — should have the opportunity to get a great public education, which is why he is listening to educators and parents on what our students need as we move beyond the COVID-19 pandemic. The President's budget makes good on his promise to lift our most vulnerable families out of poverty with a budget that truly prioritizes students. After decades of underfunding Title I and IDEA, President Biden's historic investments begin to fulfill longtime federal commitments to our most vulnerable students and those from the most underserved communities. This budget will help ensure our schools can attract and retain the best educators by paying them like the professionals they are. And the significant investments proposed in special education, full-service community schools, school counselors, affordable housing, and healthcare while extending Pell Grants to DREAMers, will help us build back better for all Americans. The National Education Association's 3 million members are committed to leading a movement that unites our members and this nation to transform public education into a racially and socially just and equitable system that prepares every student to succeed in a diverse and interdependent world. We now have a partner in the White House who is supporting us in this critical mission. We look forward to working alongside the Biden administration and Congress to turn this vision into a reality." [Statement, 5/28/21]
  