
    ESTABLISHING THE COMMITTEE ON
SELECTION OF FEDERAL JUDICIAL OFFICERS
By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and statutes of the United States of America, and as President of the United States of America, in accordance with the provisions of the Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App. I), it is hereby ordered as follows:
SECTION 1. Establishment of the Committee. There is hereby established the Committee on Selection of Federal Judicial Officers, hereinafter referred to as the Committee. The Committee shall consist of a Chairman and six other members to be appointed by the President.
SEC. 2. Functions. When requested by the President, the Committee shall conduct inquiries to identify persons who may be qualified to serve as Federal judicial officers, other than United States Circuit Judges or District Judges, and shall conduct investigations of those persons to determine their qualifications.
SEC. 3. Procedures; Report. (a) When notified by the President that he desires its assistance in filling a Federal judicial vacancy, other than a United States Circuit Court or District Court vacancy, the Committee shall conduct inquiries to identify persons who may be qualified to serve in the position and shall conduct further inquiries to determine those persons' qualifications.
(b) In conducting its inquiries the Committee shall follow any procedures established by the President in his letter of notification or by the Attorney General acting on behalf of the President.
(c) The Committee shall submit to the President and to the Attorney General, within 60 days from the date it is notified by the President that he desires its assistance, a report listing the names of no more than five persons whom the Committee considers well qualified to serve in the position. In determining which persons are well qualified the Committee shall apply criteria established by the President or by the Attorney General acting on behalf of the President.
(d) The Committee shall conduct such additional inquiries and submit such additional reports as may be requested by the President.
(e) The Committee shall perform no function except when requested by the President to assist him in filling a vacancy.
SEC. 4. Ineligibility of Committee Members. No member of the Committee shall be eligible to be nominated to fill a position as a Federal judicial officer with respect to which the Committee's assistance has been requested.
SEC. 5. Cooperation by Executive Agencies. The Committee is authorized to request, through its Chairman, from any Executive department or agency such information or assistance as the Committee deems necessary to carry out its functions under this Order. Each department or agency shall, to the extent permitted by law, furnish such information or assistance to the Committee. The Committee also is authorized to request from any State agency such information and assistance as the Committee deems necessary, and to obtain such information and assistance to the extent permitted by State law.
SEC. 6. Travel Expenses; Administrative Support; Financing. (a) Members of the Committee shall serve without compensation. While engaged in the work of the Committee, members may receive travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5702 and 5703).
(b) The Attorney General shall furnish to the Committee necessary staff, supplies, facilities and other administrative services.
(c) All necessary expenses incurred in connection with the work of the Committee, to the extent permitted by law, shall be paid from funds available to the Attorney General.
SEC. 7. Federal Advisory Committee Act Functions. Notwithstanding the provisions of any other Executive order, the functions of the President under the Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App. I), except that of reporting annually to the Congress, which are applicable to the Committee, shall be performed by the Attorney General in accordance with the guidelines and procedures established by the Office of Management and Budget.
SEC. 8. Termination of the Committee. The Committee shall terminate on. December 31, 1978, unless sooner extended.
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
May 24, 1977.
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 12:02 p.m., May 25, 1977]
  