
    Pool Reports by Courtney Rozen, Bloomberg Government 



Sent:
Reports:




May 10, 2023 09:58

5/10 In-Town Pool Report 1
Good morning from the White House.
President Biden will travel to New York today to give a speech on the debt limit and attend campaign receptions.
The in-town pool call time is 10 a.m. Pooler has received a Covid-19 test and is expecting Biden to depart the White House via Marine One around 11 a.m. 


May 10, 2023 10:51

5/10 In-Town Pool Report 2
Pool is gathering at the Palm Room Doors for President Biden’s departure on the South Lawn. 


May 10, 2023 10:57

5/10 In-Town Pool Report 3
Pool is waiting on the South Lawn driveway for the president.
See below from press office.
Traveling with the President aboard Marine One en route to Joint Base Andrews:
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations Anita Dunn, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President Karine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press Secretary 


May 10, 2023 11:13

5/10 In-Town Pool Report 4
President Biden walked out of the West Wing at about 11:03 a.m. He took no questions from reporters before boarding Marine One. Staff followed behind after he boarded. Marine One lifted off from the South Lawn at about 11:08 a.m.
Passing off to traveling pooler. 


May 10, 2023 11:54

5/10 In-Town Pool Report 5
Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre’s gaggle with traveling reporters will begin at about 11:55 a.m., the press office said. 


May 10, 2023 21:38

5/10 In-Town Pool Report 6
Marine One landed on the South Lawn at 9:26 p.m. President Biden stepped off Marine One at 9:29 p.m. He waved, took no questions from the press, and entered the White House at 9:29 p.m.
Travel/photo lid called at 9:37 p.m. 




Pool Reports below by Francesca Chambers, USA Today 



Sent:
Reports:




May 10, 2023 11:32

Travel Pool Report #1: JBA Arrival
President Biden landed in Marine 1 at JBA at 11:19 am.
He walked over to roughly 48 members of the Presidential Airlift Group, plus two men who appeared to lead them, who were waiting for him on the tarmac. He saluted the men before engaging in 2 minutes of conversation with two men who were standing out front. They were too far away for pool to make out the conversation over the sound of AF1's engines.
They took a group photo and Biden addressed several members near the front. Again, too far away to hear him.
He cut through the group to board AF1, making it impossible to ask him any questions.
At the top of the stairs, he saluted twice and gave a thumbs and a wave before putting on his Aviators and turning to enter the plane at 11:25 am.
Pool spotted NY Sen. Gillibrand as it reboarded the plane.
Next stop, New York. 


May 10, 2023 11:34

Travel Pool Report #2: more details from tarmac/travelers
The White House shares following:
Air Force Airmen are presenting a VC-25A aircraft that recently completed an extensive and routine maintenance overhaul including enhancements to modernize onboard communications and avionics systems. These Airmen represent the proud Presidential maintenance personnel responsible for the thorough maintenance actions and commissioning efforts to ensure the aircraft meets Presidential standards. The maintenance actions performed are common to any aircraft to meet FAA-required airworthiness standards.
Participants
Colonel Matthew Jones, U.S. Air Force, Commander, 89th Airlift Wing Lieutenant Colonel Robert Johnson IV, U.S. Air Force, Presidential Logistics Squadron Commander, Presidential Airlift Group Master Sergeant Matthew Lokitis, U.S. Air Force, Dedicated Crew Chief, Aircraft 29000, Presidential Airlift Group Presidential Airlift Group members
Traveling with the President aboard Air Force One en route to John F. Kennedy International Airport:
Senator Kirsten Gillibrand (NY) Rep. Jamaal Bowman (NY-16) Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations Anita Dunn, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President Karine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press Secretary Emmy Ruiz, Assistant to the President & Director of the Office of Political Strategy & Outreach Reema Dodin, Deputy Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Legislative Affairs & Senate Liason Travis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director Ryan Harper, Special Assistant to the President & National Security Council Deputy Chief of Staff Sheila Grant, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Presidential Speechwriter 


May 10, 2023 12:18

Travel Pool Report #3: wheels down
AF1 landed at JFK at 12:13 pm. We are told that audio of the gaggle cut out about 3 minutes before landing and questions about Title 42, EPA nominees and Santos were cut off. Will send quotes ASAP. 


May 10, 2023 12:34

Travel Pool Report #4: tarmac/Karine gaggle quotes
President Biden walked out of AF1 at 12:27 pm. He was followed by the lawmakers traveling with him down the front steps of the plane.
He helped Gillibrand down the final last step, taking her hand. She waved at press before turning away and walking with the group to M1.
Press was too far away to ask questions.
They boarded M1 immediately after. Press is now on an Osprey that will follow him.
Wheels up imminently at 12:33 pm.
Here's the last bit of the AF1 gaggle:
Border chaos question: Karine said they are doing all they can but expect the first few weeks to be "challenging."
"But we are committed to getting this done."
EPA nominees being blocked by Manchin? President "stands by his well-qualified nominees to do the important work of the EPA."
Santos charges? "It's a case that we're not going to speak to. The Justice Department is independent, and we respect that."
Should he be expelled? "That's something for the House conference to decide on....how they want to show to the American people want they want their conference to look like, that's up to them." 


May 10, 2023 12:37

Travel Pool Report #5: POTUS travelers
The White House shares the following:
Traveling with the President aboard Marine One en route to Westchester Airport:
Senator Kirsten Gillibrand (NY) Rep. Jamaal Bowman (NY-16) Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff Anita Dunn, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President 


May 10, 2023 12:56

Travel Pool Report #6: landing -- Karine quote correx
Pool landed in its Osprey at 12:48 pm and unloaded. M1 arrived and landed nearby at 12:52 pm.
We are waiting for POTUS to get off the helo, but he is quite far away. (The Beast drove up to M1 on the tarmac.)
Also, please see the below correction to Karine's second quote on Santos:
Should he be expelled? "That's something for the House conference to decide on....how they want to show to the American people WHAT they want their conference to look like, that's up to them." 


May 10, 2023
[APP Note: Based on the numbering of the next report, below, there may exist a "Report #7" or "Report #7a" which were not received by the APP.]


May 10, 2023 13:08

Travel Pool Report #7b: Marine One/Westchester
President Biden was greeted on the tarmac in Westchester by Gov. Kathy Hochul, who he hugged. He shook Latimer’s hand.
The motorcade was rolling at 1:01 pm.
When he stepped off Marine One after landing in Westchester, he helped Sen. Gillibrand down the last step again.
Highways are clear for the POTUS motorcade and it’s on the move to his remarks. 


May 10, 2023 13:41

Travel Pool Report #8: event arrival/speeches begin
Apologies for the delay. Connecting to the Internet at the speech site was a bit of an issue.
POTUS motorcade arrived at SUNY at about 1:18 pm and pool entered the auditorium immediately after.
The pool was in the auditorium for about 10 minutes before the event began. Gov. Hochul is giving opening remarks, with Gillibrand and Bowman at her side. POTUS is not yet on stage. It was not immediately clear where he was.
Hochul brought up GOP Rep. Mike Lawler, who she said is present at the event (but pool has not seen). Her announcement received tepid applause.
Much louder applause for Democratic leaders Schumer and Jeffries, who she noted couldn’t be here.
FROM THE WHITE HOUSE:
In attendance for the President’s remarks why Congress must avoid default immediately and without conditions, and how the House Republican Default on America Act will cut veterans’ health care visits, teachers and school support staffs, and Meals on Wheels for seniors.
Attendees Governor Kathy Hochul (NY) Senator Kirsten Gillibrand (NY) Rep. Jamaal Bowman (NY-16) Rep. Mike Lawler (NY-17) Community members and leaders
Speaking Program Governor Kathy Hochul (NY) Rep. Jamaal Bowman (NY-16) Senator Kirsten Gillibrand (NY) Brian Sullivan, 7th Grade Science Teacher and introducer The President
Background on Introducer Brian Sullivan has been a science teacher at the Highlands Middle School in the White Plains City School District for 19 years where he currently serves as his building’s head union representative. Brian has been married to his wife Amy for 15 years. They have four children. He values giving back to his community where he enjoys coaching various youth sports. 


May 10, 2023 13:52

Travel Pool Report #9: Speeches
President Joe Biden took the stage at 1:52pm.
Brian Sullivan, a teacher at the Highlands Middle School, introduced him after a speaking program by Hochul, Bowman and Gillibrand, in that order.
Other notes:

Bowman gave a fiery speech before Biden came out, earning a standing ovation for his comments on gun reforms. "Republicans don't give a damn about our children, and if you don't care about our children, then you don't care about our country," he said, calling for an assault weapons ban. ("Preach!" one audience member shouted.)
Gillibrand, targeting House Speaker McCarthy, said to "cut the c***" and "pay the debt."
Former Democratic Rep. Mondaire Jones is also in the audience. He stood up and waved when referenced by Bowman in his speech.
En route to the event, pool saw groups of people waving and taking photos of the president's motorcade 

Additional background from the White House:
Traveling with the President via motorcade en route to SUNY Westchester Community College:
Governor Kathy Hochul (NY) Senator Kirsten Gillibrand (NY) Rep. Jamaal Bowman (NY-16) Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations Anita Dunn, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President Karine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press Secretary Emmy Ruiz, Assistant to the President & Director of the Office of Political Strategy & Outreach Reema Dodin, Deputy Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Legislative Affairs & Senate Liason Travis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director Ryan Harper, Special Assistant to the President & National Security Council Deputy Chief of Staff Sheila Grant, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Presidential Speechwriter 


May 10, 2023 13:59

Travel Pool Report #10: Lawler sighting
President Joe Biden as he began his remarks gave a shout out to GOP Rep. Mike Lawler, who represents NY-17.
Biden said Mike's on the "other team" but he's "not one of these MAGA Republicans." He teased that he didn't want to get Lawler in trouble by saying anything nice about him.
As he thanked Lawler for coming to the event, the congressman, who was seated in the front of the event, nodded in response.
Event is open press but pool will send additional color as warranted. 


May 10, 2023 14:33

Travel Pool Report #11: Remarks over
President Biden concluded his remarks at 1:26 pm. Nothing else of note, in terms of color. Pool was taken out of the auditorium as he left the stage and taken to a hold room at SUNY. We expect to be here for a half hour. 


May 10, 2023 15:09

Travel Pool Report #12: POTUS on the move/Lawler gaggle
Motorcade left SUNY at 3:00 pm.
As the press pool was walking to the vans, it spotted reporters attending the open press event gaggling with GOP Rep. Mike Lawler. A few minutes later, Lawler came to Press Van #2 and began a gaggle with pool reporters. Reporters in Press Van #3 missed the top of his remarks. But here’s audio of the last couple of minutes of the gaggle with the pool, including comments on his Biden meeting and the border.
We are close to the airport, and will be rushing to the Ospreys, so I’m sending Otter over.
https://otter.ai/u/hd-T821FO-bFkXem8_WYnH8-zxw?utm_source=copy_url
Also, from the White House, while the pool was holding at SUNY:
Participating in a photoline with the President at SUNY Westchester Community College:
Mayor Thomas Roach, White Plains, NY Andrea Stewart-Cousins, NY Senate President Jay Jacobs, Chair, New York Democratic Party Mondaire Jones, Former Representative (NY-17) Local union members & leaders & SUNY Westchester Community College leadership 


May 10, 2023 15:24

Travel Pool Report #13: Biden arrival/possible gaggle
POTUS is back at the airport at 3:22 pm, and it appears he is about to gaggle. Stand by. 


May 10, 2023 15:51

Travel Pool Report #14: Biden gaggle
POTUS gaggled for about 7 minutes on the tarmac on Westchester. It was extremely hard to hear what he was saying when he was facing other reporters over the helicopters.
Here's a Dropbox link to his remarks.
https://www.dropbox.com/sh/3cluxscnhp2phc4/AACsKT-t7gyYoiJklaXqIsJSa?dl=0
He was asked about debt talks, chaos at the border, Lawler meeting, Santos among other topics.
He intentionally did not answer a question at the end about the Trump civil case and whether he had any comment.
Pool had to rush to its Osprey immediately after. It was wheels up just after 3:36 pm. POTUS etc al is en route back to NYC from Westchester. 


May 10, 2023 16:09

Travel Pool Report #15: M1 arrival at Wall Street LZ
Marine One arrived in the Wall Street landing zone at 4:03 PM. Instead of the usual wind, pool was sprayed with water from the East River when POTUS approached. Another unique part of the arrival: there was a rainbow on the water.
Pool landed before POTUS and did not see him exit the helo.
Here's some quotes from the back end (second recording of the gaggle). Will send more now that pool is in vans. (It was impossible to hear from the Osprey.)
On likely delaying a trip to the G7: "I didn't say that."
(Inaudible)
When you said the border could be chaotic for awhile, does that mean you feel your admin was not prepared for the end of Title 42?
"No, no, no. I was saying is it takes time to put some of what we (want to) do in place."
McCarthy question not audible. But the president noted he has been a part of negotiations for a long time.
He heard but did not answer the question at the end about the Trump civil case. 


May 10, 2023 16:29

Travel Pool Report #16: POTUS motorcade
The president's motorcade left the landing zone at about 4:07 pm. It passed the Brooklyn Bridge, Manhattan Bridge and Williamsburg Bridge en route to Biden's first fundraiser of the evening. It's his first as a 2024 candidate outside if Washington.
Barricades were keeping New Yorkers from the street so POTUS motorcade could drive through. Onlookers waved and took photos. Motorcade is stopped on the street at 4:27 pm.
Pool expects to enter the fundraiser soon.
More from the first part of the gaggle in Westchester....
Has the president received any update on the staff meetings on the debt ceiling today?
"No, I haven't."
He said the purpose of the meeting was never to get a deal. It was to lay out what he thought should be done.
A lot after that was Inaudible, but he seemed to again press the GOP on its budget.
He was also asked about his chaos at the border comment from yesterday evening.
He said the purpose of what his admission is doing now, is to make legal immigration more attainable.
Asked if Mexico is doing enough, he said, "Yes, I spent an hour with the President of Mexico yesterday. (It) was very cooperative. We we're in agreement."


May 10, 2023 16:45

Travel Pool Report #17 last part of Biden gaggle
The last part (middle section) of what pooler could make out from the noisy Westchester gaggle:
On whether he would send more troops to the border, after Texas Gov. Abbott called for 15,000-150,000 troops.
He again brought up the 1,500 he already sent to "free up the border patrol" agents to be able to do their jobs.
He said he asked Congress for more money for border patrol. "They're didn't do it. It made it harder." He said that's one thing he want to know about their budget.
He said that what he wants to do at the border, is to have it work the way it was designed to work, and that's why more asylum judges and personnel are needed.
"And I'm trying to do as much of that as I can."
On what he told Lawler: " I thanked him for the courtesy of showing up."
He said they had a "very brief discussion" about debt ceiling and his talks with McCarthy.
On Santos, and whether he should be expelled from Congress: He said if he comments at all, he will be accused of interfering with DOJ.
Pressed on whether Congress should expel him, he said: "That's for Congress to decide."
On SCOTUS and whether Thomas should be impeached, he said: " I think we're a long way from that."
As for whether he would accept that kind of behavior from his own staff he said, "no."
From the White House:
Traveling with the President aboard Marine One en route to Wall St. Landing Zone:
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations Anita Dunn, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President Karine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press Secretary 


May 10, 2023 17:08

Travel Pool Report #18: first fundraiser remarks
At 4:40 pm pool was led into the home of George Logothetis. He is the Executive Chairman of the Libra Group.
The set up: Three tables with name tags and flower settings, a row of chairs in the back, plus a podium and a microphone. Pool and White House staff are standing on the sidelines. About 25 guests are seated.
Biden came in at 4:49 and sat between George's children, Phillip and Daisy, at one of the tables.
"It's not often one gets to say, Mr. President, welcome to our house," Logothetis said.
After brief remarks from his host, Biden stood up to speak. He said that to invite someone to your home once could be chalked up to a "mistake." He said the second time, "It's their fault."
"Thank you for the hospitality, " he added.
Biden brought up his trip to Ireland, which he said was to make sure the "Brits didn't screw around" and the Irish didn't walk away from their commitments.
He invoked China's Xi Xinping, retelling the "possibilities" story. (How do you describe America in one word, he says Xi asked.)
Says they spoke through simultaneous translation.
"By the way I turned in all my records," he said.
Biden said he told them in 2020 that democracy was at stake. Then Jan. 6 happened.
"A lot of it really hasn't fundamentally changed." He said the battle for democracy is still taking place in the US and abroad.
He said the rest of the world "has been stunned" by what the US is going through. He began to tell a story about world leaders asking about what's taking place in the US and named German Chancellor Olaf Scholz. He stopped short of telling the full anecdote, because he noted the press is present.
He said there are a lot of "really good Republicans" but this is different breed of cat. He brought up the GOP House Speaker and said Republicans are putting the US in jeopardy.
He said it was because of a desire to cut out the IRA (which he had just finished talking up) and said Rs want to repeal the law, because the energy companies don't want it.
He said the GOP positions are "counter intuitive" to the Republican Party he used to know.
He has been speaking for about 17 minutes and his remarks are ongoing. 


May 10, 2023 17:32

Travel Pool Report # 19: fundraiser ends/next stop
POTUS remarks + introduction came in at 25 minutes. He stayed inside for a maximum of 10 minutes after pool left the room.
Motorcade then left for his second fundraiser, passing Central Park on 5th Ave and the Guggenheim and also tons of onlookers. Motorcade arrived at the second fundraiser at 5:30 pm.
The rest of POTUS remarks are below from the first one.....
He continued to talk about the IRA.
He said the question now is how to finish the job.
"Freedom is at stake." From a woman's right to choose to voting rights, he said.
He finished his speech with his "remember who we are".... the United States of America spiel (adding that if he could do anything as president, he'd like to cure cancer.)
"We've got to have more confidence in who we are," he said of the problems the US is facing.
Biden said the US has to act like what it stands for.
He then said he was wrapping up, because he will get in trouble for blocking traffic if he went on much longer. He also said that if he continued, he might not be making sense any more.
He talked for a couple more minutes though about giving people a shot. "I've already talked too much. They're looking at me like what's going on?" he said as pool was led our.
Some color...
Guests included:
"Father Alex" --- Alexander Karloutsos --  Seema Bajaj Dr. Peter Michalos  Sophia Jaimes  The honorable Herb Klein
(Thanks to co-pooler Lauren Egan for helping wirh this!)
From the White House:
The President is participating in a campaign reception in New York, New York.
Speaking Program George Logothetis, introducer The President 


May 10, 2023 18:11

Travel Pool Report #20: second fundraiser details
POTUS' second fundraiser of the evening is in a prestigious residential building on the Upper East Side in Manhattan: 834 Fifth Avenue.
Because the president was early, we are still holding in the lobby.
In the meantime...
From the Biden-Harris campaign: 
President Biden's first fundraiser this evening in New York City is at the home of Nitzia and George Logothetis and is in support of the Biden Victory Fund.
President Biden's second fundraiser in New York City is at the home of Amabel and Hamilton "Tony" James and is in support of the Biden Action Fund. 


May 10, 2023 18:40

Travel Pool Report #21: fundraiser starts/Buttigieg remarks
President Biden entered his second fundraiser at 6:23 pm.
He was introduced by Secretary of Transportation Pete Buttigieg, who host Tony James said brought a lot of his "die hard" supporters to the event. James said it was Buttigieg's second time in the home.
"Many of you were there for me when I was the most improbable of presidential candidates," Buttigieg said.
He said many in the room also stepped up in the midterms to help expand Democrats' majority in the Senate, and now they are helping to make sure the party and the president are on the "right foot" leading into the next presidential election.
Buttigieg raised concerns about freedom, book banning and abortion rights.
He waded into news of the day and said it "turns out no criminal or civil liability" could loosen the grip of the former president.
Buttigieg talked about the bipartisan infrastructure bill and his children, describing Biden as a supportive boss.
Before Buttigieg spoke, Tony James opened and said he was "incredibly" honored to have the president. He said that history will look upon Biden as a great president. He said that Biden took the country out of the COVID shutdown and into a roaring recovery.
There were roughly 60 Guests wore name tags and included:
Dan Strickler Jr.Al Jones Danny Meyer
Pool also potted Anita Dunn at the fundraiser before POTUS remarks.
From the White House:
The President is participating in a campaign reception in New York, New York. 
Speaking Program Tony James, introducer The Honorable Pete Buttigieg The President 


May 10, 2023 18:47

Travel Pool Report #22: Biden remarks on his age at fundraiser
After Buttigieg, President Biden made remarks. He's still speaking but wanted to flag what he said at the top.
Biden opened by saying one of the worst sentences ever is the president is coming as he thanked his hosts. He then made a joke about his age and the number of administrations that he has seen. (Will pull that quote later.)
Talking about 2024, he said longtime adviser Ted Kaufman told him it could be a "pretty ugly campaign, maybe" coming up.
Biden said it wasn't an "automatic decision" about running again and said the question of age is totally "legitimate."
He said that when he decided to run (last) time, he made it clear he would do what he thought was best, regardless of political consequences.
He then talked about bringing the price of insulin down, which lead into remarks about how he has already been cutting spending (re: the debt ceiling) through the IRA.
More TK. 


May 10, 2023 18:56

Travel Pool Report #23: Biden still speaking
President Biden is still speaking ....
He hit out at the "last guy" for increasing the deficit.
He said the "vast majority" of Republicans, especially those in the Senate, are not MAGA Republicans.
Biden said he has had 12 senators he used to serve with tell him that if they vote with him they will get defeated or primaried.
"I don't call that political courage," he said, but it's "honesty."
Biden said as he was deciding to run for president, he decided to write a book about his son Beau.
"He should be the one speaking to you, not me" he said.
Biden said he began to write a third book before he decided to run for president about the inflection point he thinks the nation primaries.
More TK. 


May 10, 2023 19:15

Travel Pool Report #24: speaking ended
Stepping in for Fran.
The president concluded his remarks after 35 minutes. He wrapped by introducing his granddaughter, Finnegan Biden, to the crowd.
"I have 4 granddaughters and they are crazy about me," Biden said.
We are loading back into the vans at 7:13pm. 


May 10, 2023 19:42

Travel Pool Report #25: back to Wall Street // better quotes on age.
Motorcade was rolling at 7:20 pm back the way it came. It arrived at the Wall Street Landing Zone at 7:42 pm.
Biden at the end of his remarks talked about Russia's war on Ukraine and showered praise on his grandchildren.
As promised, earlier in the fundraiser, Biden remarked on his age:
Biden said then he was speaking with Ted Kaufman, who told him, "This campaign's going to be tough."
He said Kaufman also told him, "It could be a pretty ugly campaign, maybe, coming on."
"It wasn't an automatic decision about running again. Not because I didn't think there was more to do, but because I thought to myself...four more years means six more years. It's a long time."
"It's a legitimate thing to raise the question of age."
Kaufman also noted, he said, that he is already the oldest president is American history.
"I think what I've been able to bring (to this job), and will continue to bring is a little bit of wisdom." 


May 10, 2023 19:54

Travel Pool Report #26: Back to JFK
POTUS boarded Marine One and lifted off from the Wall Street landing zone immediately after the motorcade arrived at 7:46 pm.
Pool is on a chase Osprey and is about to be wheels up back to JFK for the AF1 ride home. 


May 10, 2023 20:13

Travel Pool Report #27: leaving NY
The president arrived in M1 several minutes after the press Osprey at 8:07 pm.
He walked up the stairs of AF1, giving a salute at the bottom and a wave at the top.
We will be wheels up soon en route back to Washington. 


May 10, 2023 20:19

Travel Pool Report #28: a bit of AF1 color
Earlier in the day, when the president flew from DC to NY, the televisions were set to CNN. But on the way back, when press boarded the plane & amid the Trump town hall on that network, the televisions were set to MSNBC.
AF1 is taxiing down the runway at 8:18 pm.
From the White House:
Traveling with the President aboard Marine One en route to John F. Kennedy International Airport:
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations Anita Dunn, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President Karine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press Secretary
Traveling with the President aboard Air Force One en route to Joint Base Andrews:
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations Anita Dunn, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President Karine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press Secretary Emmy Ruiz, Assistant to the President & Director of the Office of Political Strategy & Outreach Reema Dodin, Deputy Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Legislative Affairs & Senate Liason Travis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director Ryan Harper, Special Assistant to the President & National Security Council Deputy Chief of StaffSheila Grant, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Presidential Speechwriter 


May 10, 2023 21:03

Travel Pool Report #29: wheels down at JBA
AF1 was wheels down at JBA at 9 pm.
A couple of notes from the flight:
--- Just after the last pool report, a request from the pool to have the TVs in the press cabin changed to CNN was fulfilled and pool was able to watch most of the Trump town hall.
--- Midway through the flight, Biden senior adviser Anita Dunn popped in to the press cabin, looked at the televisions, and left after politely declining to join the pool's watch party. 


May 10, 2023 21:18

Travel Pool Report #30: M1 departure
President Biden deplaned AF1 at 9:09 pm. He waved at the bottom and shook his greeter's hand before walking to M1.
The helo was wheels up at 9:16 pm.
Back to you, in-town pool. Goodnight, everyone.
From the White House:
Traveling with the President aboard Marine One en route to the White House:
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations Anita Dunn, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President Karine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press Secretary 



  