
    MINISTER TO CANADA
THE PRESIDENT. I have two or three questions today. One is about the new Minister to Canada. I am not in a position yet to announce the name because we haven't been officially notified by the Canadian Government. They seem to have announced it but they have not yet notified us. 1
1 Hanford MacNider was the new United States Minister to Canada.
HYDRAULIC LABORATORY
Also a question about the new hydraulic laboratory, a bill [46 Stat. 327] for which has just passed through Congress. That laboratory is due to the persistence of Senator [Joseph E.] Ransdell over the last 8 years, and is to be an important contribution to the solution of water problems in the United States. And we will undertake its construction out at the Bureau of Standards at the earliest possible moment.
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA PUBLIC BUILDINGS PROGRAM
We had some discussion at Cabinet this morning with regard to the program for improvement in the District, largely with view in that discussion to expediting work here in every direction we can. And in the course of these discussions I had before me a memorandum from Assistant Secretary Heath on the progress and character of all of the improvements contemplated in the District. I had thought that perhaps it might be of interest to you, and I have had it mimeographed for distribution. Secretary Heath's name is not on it, but it comes through his responsibility.
AMBASSADOR CHARLES G. DAWES
I also have a question about General Dawes' return. General Dawes, I understand, is coming over to attend some meetings in connection with the World's Fair at Chicago, where he has been an important factor. It has nothing whatever to do with the treaty, and we will all be glad to see him.
QUESTIONS
Q. Mr. President, in what category is this (indicating Heath memorandum ) ?
THE PRESIDENT. You can quote it. Give Secretary Heath credit for it.
Q. Who will go down to the camp tomorrow ?
THE PRESIDENT. I haven't a list before me, but Mr. [Lawrence] Richey can give it to you.
  