
    Pool Reports by Eugene Daniels, POLITICO 



Sent:
Reports:




May 3, 202217:15

VP Supemental Pool #1- In the van
Hey there!
As you all know, VP Harris is heading to an Emily's List event where she'll be doing welcoming remarks. An event that has taken on new meaning after last night.
There doesn't seem to be an official live stream, however the TV pool says it will be takeb live if tech allows. Will update when we know for sure.
From Emily's list: "We Are EMILY National Conference and Gala. This virtual and in-person event will celebrate the women taking the lead in defending our democracy and our right to reproductive freedom. The program will feature candidates, elected officials, and leaders from around the country, as we uplift the women who have inspired others to take action in their communities, and the upcoming generation of leaders who will continue to grow the movement to put more Democratic pro-choice women in office for years to come."



May 3, 202217:31

VP Supemental Pool #2 - rolling out
We left the WH at 5:28 without the VP who I'm told will meet us at the event.



May 3, 202217:49

VP supplemental pool #3
Pool arrived at the Omni hotel just before 5:45.
The VP is set to speak at 7 PM.



May 3, 202218:24

VP Supplemental Pool #4 -- Livestream Link
On the livestream: an Emily's List staffer says VP Harris' remarks will be livestreamed at: https://www.weareemily.com/. It will ask you to fill out a form but you can just click away from it and watch without having to register.
We are stitting in the ballroom waiting for the event to start. We walked into the building with Tina Flournoy (Harris COS), Tina Voles (Senior Adviser and Incoming COS), Jamal Simmons (Comms Director).
The ballroom is already set with food being plated on the tables as we wait. The stage has two lecterns with the words "WE ARE EMILY," "HISTORY MAKERS", "GAME CHANGERS", "FREEDOM PROTECTORS" AND "BARRIER BREAKERS" emblazed on the stage.
The song "You Don't Own Me" just played over the speakers as a part of the playlist. We passed dozens and dozens of people in line waiting to get into the event.



May 3, 202219:06

VP Supplemental Pool #5 -- event starting now
[APP Note: No additional text was included in this report.]




  