
    "Four years ago, President Obama promised to fix the problems facing our country – including a promise to lower gas prices. But after more than three years of policies that have resulted in skyrocketing prices at the pump, it's clear the President's policies have not made life any better for the middle-class families he promised to help. Mitt Romney's pro-jobs, pro-market, and pro-American energy plan will help lower prices and create thousands of high-paying jobs." –Andrea Saul, Romney Campaign Spokesperson
Four Years Ago, Barack Obama Promised To Implement An Energy Policy To Prevent "High Fuel Prices" In The Future:
Candidate Obama, In 2008: "I Want To Invest That Money In Clean, Affordable, Renewable Energy Sources ... So That We're Not Talking About High Fuel Prices Next Summer..." OBAMA: "I want to invest that money in clean, affordable, renewable energy sources like wind power, and solar power, and biofuels, so that we're not talking about high fuel prices next summer or the next summer after that, or the summer after that." (Senator Barack Obama, Remarks, Winston-Salem, NC, 4/29/08)
But President Obama's Energy Policies Have Not Brought Down Gas Prices – They've Made Things More Difficult For Families Already Struggling To Pay Their Bills:
Gas Prices Have More Than Doubled From $1.85 Per Gallon When President Obama Was Sworn Into Office To $3.79 Per Gallon Today. (U.S. Energy Information Administration, www.eia.gov, Accessed 5/8/12)


    During President Obama's Time In Office, Colorado's Gas Prices Have More Than Doubled – From $1.61 Per Gallon To $3.84 Per Gallon. (AAA Website, www.aaa.com, Accessed 5/8/12)
  

"2011 Closed Out As The Year With The Highest Average Annual Oil Price In The 150-Year History Of The Modern Oil Industry." "Already, 2011 closed out as the year with the highest average annual oil price in the 150-year history of the modern oil industry at $111 for a barrel of Brent crude, 13 percent higher than the previous record of $98 a barrel in 2008. U.S. gasoline prices also reached a record annual average high at $3.52 for a gallon of regular." (Coral Davenport, "Rising Oil Prices Could Fuel Political Rage," National Journal, 1/7/12)
NBC's Chuck Todd, On President Obama's Energy Policy: "He's Made No Progress." TODD: "There is no issue that has been a, I guess, a bigger bust for the president than energy policy in general. There's a lot of, we can come up with a lot of excuses as to why, but boy, it's just like you can't – he's made no progress." (MSNBC's "The Daily Rundown," 2/23/12)
President Obama: "Our Energy Policy Still Is Just A Hodgepodge." OBAMA: "Our energy policy still is just a hodgepodge, and for all the progress we've made, we're not where we need to be in making sure that this is an energy-efficient economy that is running on all cylinders." (President Barack Obama, Remarks At DNC Event, Miami, FL, 6/13/11)
And President Obama Isn't Likely To Deliver Relief For Struggling Families Any Time Soon After Cracking Down On Domestic Sources Of Energy:
Oil And Natural Gas Production On Federal Lands Decreased Between 2010 And 2011. "The report shows that crude oil production and natural gas production on Federal lands both fell between 2010 and 2011. In fact, federal lands produced less crude oil in fiscal 2011 than they did in fiscal 2003. Natural gas production on federal land is also well below both three and eight years ago." (Joel Gehrke, "DOE Report On Energy Contradicts WH, Salazar," The Washington Examiner, 3/15/12)


    "Production Of Natural Gas On Public Lands And Waters In Fiscal 2011 Dropped 11 Percent From The Previous Year, According To Interior Department Data. Oil Production Dipped Nearly 14 Percent." (Phil Taylor, "Production On Federal Tracts Fell In 2011," Greenwire, 2/27/12)
  

The Washington Post: "Production Levels Well Below The Rates From 1951 Through 2002." "We pointed this out in an examination of the president's State of the Union address, citing an Energy Information Administration graphic that shows production levels well below the rates from 1951 through 2002." (Josh Hicks, "Oil War: The Ad Battle Between 'Big Oil' And DNC, Part 2," The Washington Post, 3/30/12)
  