
    President Bush to Nominate Three Individuals to Serve in His Administration
President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate three individuals to serve in his administration.
The President intends to nominate Ben S. Bernanke to be a Member of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. He will serve the remainder of a fourteen-year term expiring on January 31, 2004, as a representative of the Atlanta District. Dr. Bernanke is presently a Professor and Chair of the Department of Economics at Princeton University, where he joined the faculty in 1985. He is also a Fellow at the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. Previously, he has served on the faculties of Stanford University, New York University and M.I. T. Born in Augusta, Georgia, Dr. Bernanke earned a bachelor's degree from Harvard University and a Ph.D. from M.I.T.
The President intends to nominate Donald L. Kohn to be a Member of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. He will serve the remainder of a fourteen-year term expiring on January 31, 2016, as a representative of the Kansas City District. Kohn joined the staff of the Board of Governors in 1975. He is currently Advisor to the Board for Monetary Policy where he serves the Chairman, members of the Board of Governors and the Federal Open Market Committee. His past positions include Director of the Division of Monetary Affairs and Deputy Director of Monetary Policy and Financial Markets in the Division of Research and Statistics. Before joining the Board of Governor's staff, Kohn was a Financial Economist at the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City. He earned a bachelor's degree from the College of Wooster and a Master's degree and Ph.D. from the University of Michigan.
The President intends to nominate Frederick D. Gregory to be Deputy Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration. Gregory is currently Associate Administrator for Space Flight at NASA and was previously the Associate Administrator for the Office of Safety and Mission Assurance. He has logged over 450 hours in space as pilot for the Orbitor Challenger in 1985, as spacecraft commander aboard Discover in 1989 and spacecraft commander aboard Atlantis. He retired from the U.S. Air Force in December 1993, where his service included 550 combat missions in Vietnam. Gregory holds a bachelor's degree from the U.S. Air Force Academy and a Master's degree from George Washington University.
  