
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
April 29
In the morning, the President traveled to Williamsburg, VA, where he attended the Democratic Policy Committee annual retreat at the Kingsmill Resort Conference Center. He returned to Washington, DC, in the afternoon.
April 30
In the morning, the President traveled to New York City. He returned to Washington, DC, in the evening.
May 1
The President announced his intention to appoint Paul Calabresi to the President's Cancer Panel.
The President announced his intention to appoint Ronald W. Drach and Sylvia Walker as Vice Chairs of the President's Committee on Employment of People With Disabilities.
May 2
The President announced his intention to nominate Timothy Michael Carney as Ambassador to Sudan.
The White House announced that the President will send a delegation led by Secretary of Commerce Ron Brown to the Third African-American Summit in Dakar, Senegal, May 1-5.
May 3
The President announced the selection of H. Martin Lancaster as Special Adviser to the President and U.S. Arms Control and Disarmament Agency Director on the Chemical Weapons Convention.
May 4
In the morning, the President met with Prime Minister Vaclav Klaus of the Czech Republic.
The President announced his intention to nominate Robert F. Rider as a member of the Board of Governors of the U.S. Postal Service.
May 5
In the morning, the President traveled to East Lansing, MI. He returned to Washington, DC, in the afternoon.
In the evening, the President and Hillary Clinton attended a benefit for the Southwest Voter Education Registration Project at the Washington Hilton. They then attended a premiere showing of the movie "Mi Familia" at the Embassy Theater.
The President announced his intention to nominate Andrew Fois as Assistant Attorney General of the Office of Legislative Affairs at the Department of Justice.
The President announced the appointment of Michael V. Dunn to serve as a Federal Representative and Robert Lee Stanton to serve as a Public Representative to the Rural Telephone Bank Board.
  