
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

Socially, culturally, economically, spiritually, and in so many ways, our neighborhoods tell the American story of family, faith, and freedom. The motto E pluribus unum, or "Out of many, one," is an appropriate description of our myriad neighborhoods and their residents. We all love and cherish this blessed land of liberty; therefore, let us join together as partners and neighbors to enrich it, each other, and every one of our neighborhoods with all of the strengths our many heritages provide us. That is something for us to reflect upon, and observance of National NHS-NeighborWorks Week presents a fine opportunity for reflection and action in our communities.
Both reflection and action are already taking place around our land in neighborhoods where residents, business owners, concerned citizens, community groups, and government agencies are turning decay and despair into promise and prosperity. They are using some of the most powerful sources of America's greatness—our volunteer spirit, our spiritual strength, the love and caring of our families, our hard work and determination, our civic energy—to create opportunities and bring renewed inspiration and hope.
Among them are the groups from which this week of observance takes its name. NeighborWorks is a national organization composed of Neighborhood Housing Services (NHS), Apartment Improvement Programs, and Mutual Housing Associations, cooperative ventures that are resident-business-government partnerships relying primarily on volunteer effort and private and local resources. They are revitalizing more than 200 neighborhoods and have generated more than $4 billion in reinvestment funds. These efforts are clearly a major contribution to our Nation and deserve our gratitude, encouragement, cooperation, and emulation during National NHS-NeighborWorks Week and in the future as well.
The Congress, by Public Law 100-261, has designated the week of June 5 through June 11, 1988, as "National NHS-NeighborWorks Week" and authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this week.
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the week of June 5 through June 11, 1988, as National NHS Neighbor Works Week. I call upon the people of the United States to observe this week with appropriate ceremonies and activities.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-fifth day of May, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-eight, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and twelfth.

RONALD REAGAN
  