
    No pool reports today. Below is background on the Vice President's commencement address to the U.S. Coast Guard Academy graduating Cadets
On background attributed to a White House official: Today, Vice President Harris will deliver a commencement speech at the U.S. Coast Guard Academy. The Vice President will discuss how she sees the world, the work of the Coast Guard, and the role of the Cadets in each.
On foreign policy, the Vice President will discuss the Administration's priority of upholding and strengthening the international rules-based order, and she will discuss how the Cadets will contribute to this work through their Coast Guard service. She will describe the state of the world that Cadets are entering, where long-standing rules and norms are under question, including in Ukraine, but also more broadly around the world. She will underscore that upholding the international rules-based order is how we ensure the safety, security, and prosperity of the United States and how we preserve stability around in the world—and that the Coast Guard plays a vital role in these efforts. She will also discuss her engagements with foreign leaders and their discussions on the U.S. Coast Guard, noting that they are a highly-sought after partner who help strengthen our alliances and partnerships.
On domestic policy, the Vice President will discuss how the work of the Coast Guard is also contributing to our strength at home. She will discuss how their work supports American jobs and livelihoods, ensures the resilience of our supply chains, and contributes to our efforts on climate, and cybersecurity, among other areas.
EXCERPT FROM REMARKS, AS PREPARED
"The world you graduate into is unsettled. It is a world where long-established principles now rest on shaky ground. Where the rule of law is strained. Where rules and norms are under question.
We see this in Russia's unprovoked invasion of Ukraine where fundamental principles are under threat. Principles grounded in the belief: that sovereignty and territorial integrity of all nations must be respected; the belief that all people have a right to choose their own leaders; and that borders must not be changed by force.
For a time, it seemed as though these rules and norms would prevail. Now, they are being called into question.
And the challenges we face are broader than Russia. Around the world, we see additional attempts to undermine the rules-based order: Nations that threaten the freedom of the seas; criminal gangs and traffickers who skirt the rule of law, and fuel corruption and violence; those that manipulate and undermine the foundations of international commerce.
When I think about the security of the United States and the world, I am clear-eyed: One of our defining missions is to strengthen the international rules-based order. To defend it. To promote it. And to build on it.
Over time, this order has been tried. This order has been tested. And far too often, this order has been taken for granted. Frankly, sometimes we forget how rare it is in human history to have a period of relative peace and stability among nations.
We must remember: Upholding a system of laws, institutions and common understandings--this is how we ensure the safety, security, and prosperity of the United States, and this is how we preserve stability in the world.
Cadets, this is where you come in. In addition to the work you will do at home, you will serve a vital role in advancing our nation's interests abroad."
ADDITIONAL BACKGROUND
The issue of upholding and strengthening the international rules-based order is a topic the Vice President has spoken on frequently:

U.S.-ASEAN Summit (May 13, 2022): "The United States and ASEAN have shared a vision for this region. And together we will guard against threats to international rules and norms. We stand with our allies and partners in defending the maritime rules-based order, which includes freedom of navigation and international law."


Vice President Remarks at Vandenberg Space Force Base (April 18, 2022): "In recent months, you have heard the President and me talk a lot about defending international norms and rules. Rules and norms are shared principles that guide the behavior of people and of communities. They are common understandings of what is right, what is wrong, and what is acceptable. Whether it is the way we interact with our colleagues at work or the way nations interact with each other on the world stage, rules and norms provide us all with a sense of order and stability.


"As we have seen in Ukraine, Russia has completely violated the set of international rules and norms established after World War Two which provided unprecedented peace and security in Europe. In the face of Russian brutality, the world has come together to say these roles and these rules and norms must be upheld. I am heartened to see such strong affirmation of their importance. At the same time, our administration is working to establish new rules and norms for the new challenges of the 21st century — areas like emerging technologies, cybersecurity, and, of course, space."


Vice President Remarks at the Munich Security Conference (February 19, 2022): "Today, as we are all well aware, the foundation of European security is under direct threat in Ukraine. Let us remember: From the wreckage of two world wars, a consensus emerged in Europe and the United States. A consensus in favor of order, not chaos; security, not conflict. So by forging relationships and bonds, forging organizations and institutions, laws and treaties, we, together, established a set of rules, norms that have governed ever since.


"And Europe has enjoyed unprecedented peace, security, and prosperity through a commitment to a set of defining principles. The United States is equally committed to these principles: that people have a right to choose their own form of government; that nations have a right to choose their own alliances; that there are inalienable rights which governments must protect; that the rule of law should be cherished; that sovereignty and territorial integrity of all states must be respected; and that national borders should not be changed by force. (Applause.) We are here in Munich, together, to reaffirm our commitment to these principles. These principles have brought us peace and security.


"So, let the past few months be a reminder to us all: Defending the rules and norms, upholding our principles — this is the vital work of each generation."


Vice President's Remarks in Singapore (August 24, 2021): "In this region, we have long put forward a vision of peace and stability, freedom on the seas, unimpeded commerce, advancing human rights, a commitment to the international rules-based order, and the recognition that our common interests are not zero-sum. Now, as we face threats to that order, I am here to reaffirm our commitment to that vision — to strengthen it and to make sure it addresses the challenges of today and of tomorrow."

The Vice President has engaged foreign counterparts on issues involving the Coast Guard:

U.S.-ASEAN Summit (May 13, 2022): The Vice President held a working lunch with ASEAN leaders to discuss maritime security. Vice Commandant of the Coast Guard, Admiral Linda Fagan was in attendance. As part of this working lunch, the Vice President announced a $60 million in new regional maritime initiatives, most of which will be led by the U.S. Coast Guard. She said: "Among those initiatives, we will deploy to Southeast Asia a new cutter as a training platform. This is intended to benefit all nations in the region as we conduct multinational training missions to assist in building your capacity. We will also be sending additional personnel, including technical experts, to the region."


Trip to Vietnam (August 25, 2021): The Vice President discussed the deep ties between the Vietnam and U.S. Coast Guards, including the possible provision of a third U.S. Coast Guard high-endurance cutter.

  