
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

America's transportation systems are a mainstay of our economy, an essential component of our commerce, an important part of our defense and the means by which our citizens and visitors alike enjoy the freedom to travel throughout our land.
Historically, transportation has opened America's frontiers. Transportation gave our Nation's territorial and industrial pioneers access to the country's resources. More than any other element of our society, transportation has been a vibrant economic catalyst, building cities, generating new industries, spurring ambitions, providing jobs and linking us to the peoples of the world. Our transportation systems and facilities, including America's merchant fleet and road, rail and aviation networks, support the Nation's defense readiness and emergency response capabilities.
As our transportation systems have developed, they have become increasingly safe. The constant commitment to safety, shared by the government and the private sector, is reducing fatalities and accident rates to the lowest levels in our history, saving lives and preventing injuries.
As we vigorously pursue safety efforts, the Federal government is relaxing the constraints of economic regulation, enabling the Nation's rail, airline, trucking and interstate bus companies to compete more aggressively and operate more efficiently. Economic deregulation is a gateway for new carriers entering the transportation field. It is generating new competition, providing lower fares and more choices for consumers, and competitive rates for shippers. America's transportation industries stand today on the threshold of an era of broader opportunities and greater prosperity. We stand, as well, at the beginning of a new era of space transportation, in which the Federal government is fully prepared to assist the private sector in development of a commercial space industry.
In recognition of the importance of transportation in America and to honor the millions of Americans who serve and supply our transportation needs, the Congress, by joint resolution approved May 16, 1957, has requested that the third Friday in May of each year be designated National Defense Transportation Day; and by a joint resolution approved May 14, 1962, that the week in which that Friday falls be proclaimed National Transportation Week.
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan, President of the United States of America, do hereby designate Friday, May 18, 1984, as National Defense Transportation Day and proclaim the week beginning May 13, 1984, as National Transportation Week. I urge the people of the United States to observe these occasions with appropriate ceremonies which will give full recognition to the importance of our transportation system and the maintenance of its facilities.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this fifth day of May, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eightyfour, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and eighth.

RONALD REAGAN
  