
    The President today announced his intention to appoint the following individuals to be members of the Presidential Commission on Drunk Driving. The President also announced his intention to designate John A. Volpe to be Chairman.
John A. Volpe was Ambassador to Italy in 1973-1977. He is a former Secretary of Transportation and was Governor of Massachusetts in 1960-1962 and 1964-1969. He resides in Nahant, Mass.
V. J Adduci is president and chief executive officer of Motor Vehicle Manufacturers Association of the U.S., Inc., based in Detroit and Washington, D.C. He resides in Falls Church, Va.
Van Henry Archer, Jr., is a council member in San Antonio, Tex., where he resides. In addition, he is a stockbroker with George E. Dullnig Co.
Ross Barrett is senior vice president and senior corporate officer on the west coast for Metromedia, in Los Angeles, Calif. He resides in Los Angeles.
Michael D. Bradbury has been serving as district attorney for Ventura County in California since 1978. He resides in Camarillo, Calif.
Morris E. Chafetz, M.D., has been president of the Health Education Foundation in Washington, D.C., since 1980. He resides in Washington.
Joseph M. Dealey is chairman of the board of A. H. Belo Corp. and publisher of the Dallas Morning News. He resides in Dallas, Tex.
James R. Edgar is serving as secretary of state for the State of Illinois. He resides in Springfield.
Sherman G. Finesliver has been serving as District Judge, United States District Court, Colorado, since 1971. He resides in Denver, Colo.
James S. Kemper, Jr., is chairman of the board, Kemper Group, in Long Grove, Ill. He resides in Golf, Ill.
Henry B. King is president of the U.S. Brewers Association. He resides in Washington, D.C.
Patience Latting has been serving as mayor of Oklahoma City, Okla., since 1971. She resides in Oklahoma City.
Ann Landers is a syndicated human relations columnist. She resides in Chicago, Ill.
Candace Lightner is president and chief executive officer of M.A.D.D. (Mothers Against Drunk Driving). She resides in Fair Oaks, Calif.
Forst Lowery is serving as safety program coordinator for the Minnesota Department of Public Safety. He resides in Hopkins, Minn.
G. W. Hank McCullough is self-employed in real estate and communications. He was a founder of the Alcoholism Council of California and its president for the first 5 years. He resides in Woodside, Calif.
Frederick A. Meister, Jr., president of the Distilled Spirits Council of the United States. He resides in Great Falls, Va.
William N. Plymat is executive director of the American Council on Alcohol Problems in Des Moines, Iowa, where he resides.
Joseph A. Pursch, M.D., currently serves as corporate medical director and member of the board of directors for Comprehensive Care Corp. (CompCare). He also maintains a private practice. He resides in Laguna Niguel, Calif.
Walter Shea is executive assistant to Teamster General President Roy L. Williams and has been with the Teamsters organization since 1957. He resides in Bethesda, Md.
Milton Skying is project director of Checkmate, Baton Rouge City Court, in Baton Rouge, La., where he resides.
William T. Smith H has been serving in the New York State Senate since 1962. He was named chairman of the Senate Special Task Force on Drunk Driving in 1980. He resides in Big Flats, N.Y.
Stan Statham has been serving as a State assemblyman for California since 1976. He resides in Roseville, Calif.
Vincent L. Tofany has been serving as president of the National Safety Council since his election in 1973. He resides in Chicago, Ill.
Dick Vincent Van Patten is an actor in Beverly Hills, Calif. He resides in Sherman Oaks, Calif.
Frank D. White is Governor of the State of Arkansas. He resides in Little Rock.
  