
    Watch The New Romney For President Web Video: "Stories From The Obama Economy"
"Despite President Obama's attempts to make the country forget about his dismal record, the American people remember. There are millions of stories from the Obama economy that reflect his failure to make things better. Too many Americans have lost their jobs, lost their homes, and fallen into poverty under this president. They are tired of being tired. They want good jobs, rising incomes, and hope for a better tomorrow. They want to believe in America again. And that is what this campaign is going to be about." – Gail Gitcho, Romney Communications Director
President Obama Has Doubled Down On His Campaign's Widely-Repudiated Attacks On Governor Romney's Business Career:
This Week, President Obama Said His Attacks On Governor Romney Are "What This Campaign's Going To Be About." "President Obama Monday defended his campaign's attacks on Mitt Romney's business record, denying that they are a distraction or a side issue. 'This is not a distraction. This is what this campaign is going to be about,' Obama said at a press conference in Chicago. 'Both the upsides and the down sides are worth examining.'" (Byron Tau, "Obama: Attacks On Romney, Bain Are Fair Game," Politico, 5/21/12)
While President Obama Fires Up His Political Attack Machine, Millions Of Americans Are Suffering In Silence From His Failure To Turn The Economy Around:
Nearly Twenty-Three Million Americans Are Unemployed, Underemployed, Or Have Stopped Looking For Work. (Bureau Of Labor Statistics, www.bls.gov, Accessed 5/22/12)
Employment Among Young Adults Is At The Lowest Level "Since The Government Started Keeping Records In 1948." "How hard has the Great Recession hit young adults in the U.S.? According to a report released Thursday by the Pew Research Center, only 54.3% of young adults aged 18 to 24 have a job. It's the lowest rate since the government started keeping records in 1948." (Josh Sanburn, "Fewest Young Adults In 60 Years Have Jobs," Time, 2/9/12)
"In April, The Percentage Of Adults Working Or Looking For Work Fell To The Lowest Level In More Than 30 Years." (Christopher S. Rugaber, "US Hiring Slows Sharply With Just 115K Jobs Added," The Associated Press, 5/4/12)
Median Household Income Has Declined By Over $4,000 During The Obama Administration. "Yet real median household income in March was down $4,300 since Obama took office in January 2009 and down $2,900 since the June 2009 start of the economic recovery, according to an analysis of census data by Sentier Research, an economic- consulting firm in Annapolis, Maryland." (Mike Dorning, "Obama Fails To Stem Middle-Class Slide He Blamed On Bush," Bloomberg, 4/30/12)
"More Than 340,000 Workers Dropped Out Of The Labor Force" In April Alone. "April's jobs report was, in a word, disappointing. The economy added only 115,000 jobs. Hiring slowed. More than 340,000 workers dropped out of the labor force." (Charles Riley, "Why Obama Can't Match The Reagan Recovery," CNN Money, 5/4/12)
Since President Obama Took Office, Nearly 3 Million Homes Have Been Lost To Foreclosure And Millions More Are On The Brink. "Meanwhile, 2.5 million homes have been lost to foreclosure since 2009, an additional 4 million are in the foreclosure process or seriously delinquent, and home prices are still falling in much of the U.S., shrinking household wealth for millions of Americans." (Julie Schmit, "What Went Wrong With Foreclosure Aid Programs?" USA Today, 12/12/11)
Obamacare Has Made Health Care Less Affordable And Has Caused "Insurance Premiums To Rise." "Independent health care experts say the law has caused some insurance premiums to rise. As we wrote in October, the new law has caused about a 1 percent to 3 percent increase in health insurance premiums for employer-sponsored family plans because of requirements for increased benefits." (D'Angelo Gore, "Promises, Promises," FactCheck.org, 1/4/12)
Over Five Million Americans Have Been Out Of Work For Half A Year Or More. "More than 5 million Americans have been unemployed for six months or longer, an astonishingly high number almost three years into a recovery." (Christopher S. Rugaber, "US Hiring Slows Sharply With Just 115K Jobs Added," The Associated Press, 5/4/12)
  