
    The President today announced 14 persons whom he will nominate to be members of the National Council on the Handicapped. They are:
ELIZABETH MONROE. BOGGS, past president and an active member of the board of directors of the National Association for Retarded Citizens; she is vice chairman of the New Jersey Advisory Council on Developmental Disabilities and is active in numerous groups dealing with mental retardation;
MARY P. CHAMBERS, deputy House Democratic (minority) leader for the State of New Hampshire, director of Upper Valley Adult Basic Education, Lebanon, N.H., and a former teacher of adults and children with special learning problems;
NELBA R. CHAVEZ, director of La Frontera Mental Health Center in Tucson, Ariz., a former psychiatric social worker, who is also on the faculty of Arizona State University's Graduate School of Social Work on a parttime basis;
JACK GENAIR DUNCAN, counsel and staff director of the U.S. House of Representatives Subcommittee on Select Education and former legislative officer for HEW's Social and Rehabilitation Service;
NANETTE FABRAY, the actress, who is campaign chairman for UCLA's Hope for Hearing Foundation and is active in other organizations for the hearing handicapped and other disabled persons;
DONALD E. GALVIN, a professor in the faculty of rehabilitation counseling, special education, and community health sciences at Michigan State University and director of the University Centers for International Rehabilitation;
JUDITH E. HEUMANN, deputy director of the Center for Independent Living in Berkeley, Calif., and cochairman of the Advisory Board of the Disabled Community Health Clinic at Berkeley's Herrick Hospital; she is active in numerous organizations working for the rights of the disabled;
JOHN P. HOURIHAN, director of the regional education program for handicapped college students at Columbia University, professor in the department of special education at Columbia, and administrator of St. John's Community, St. John's Church, Newark, N.J.;
THOMAS C. JOE, a Washington, D.C., consultant specializing in human services, including disability and rehabilitation issues; he is temporary director of the Washington office of the University of Chicago's Center for the Study of Welfare Policy;
ODESSA KOMER, international vice president of the United Auto Workers, previously education director for region 1 of the International Union;
EDWIN O. OPHEIM, director of program and management support for the Division of Vocational Rehabilitation of the Minnesota Department of Economic Security;
HOWARD A. RUSK, professor and chairman of the department of rehabilitation medicine at New York University School of Medicine, a consultant on rehabilitation to numerous public and private agencies; on confirmation, he will be designated Chairman of this Council;
J. DAVID WEBB, corporate counsel and assistant secretary of the Trust Company of Georgia, who is on the Advisory Council of the Emory University Rehabilitation Research and Training Center and is active in other organizations for handicapped persons;
HENRY WILLIAMS, deputy director of the Manhattan Psychiatric Center, New York State Department of Mental Hygiene, an active member of the National Rehabilitation Association and other organizations, and chair of the Mayor's Committee on Human Rights for the Handicapped, New York City Office of the Handicapped.
  