
    I am going to vary the usual procedure a little bit tonight.
I am going to ask the Vice President of the United States, in his capacity as President of the Senate, to say a word of welcome to the head of our great sister state in South America, the President of Brazil.
If the Vice President will say a word, I will appreciate it.
Vice President Barkley: Mr. President-Mr. President--distinguished guests from the Americas:
I am very highly honored by the President to be asked to speak a word of welcome to our distinguished guests from Brazil. I know of no task which could be assigned to me by my Commander in Chief that I would discharge with greater pleasure than that which he has given to me this evening.
The friendship which has existed between the Republic of Brazil and the Republic of the United States is of long standing, and traditional. It is based upon mutual respect, mutual admiration, and mutual understanding of the problems that face both countries, and the mission of both countries in a peaceful world, that no distinction of language could in any respect obliterate.
We in the United States, Mr. President, have been greatly encouraged and inspired by the leadership of your country in all movements for the preservation and the fortification of democracy in America, and by example, to extension throughout the world. In the field of culture, in the devotion which your people and ours have to the arts and sciences, to all the elements of life that raise the standard of humanity, to the extension of democracy and enjoyment of self-government, and that mutual accord and cooperation which is so essential in these days of frustration and chaos, we welcome a partner in the Americas with standing and the ability and the character not only of the Brazilian Government, but of the Brazilian people themselves.
It is in that spirit, Mr. President, that not only the President of the United States, and the Government of the United States, and the representatives of the people in the Congress of the United States, but the whole people of our country welcome you as an honored and distinguished guest, worthy of every courtesy and every consideration, and worthy of emulation in many of the fields of political economy and political discourse, and the administration of government for ourselves and for the entire world.
May I wish for you and for your official family the greatest possible enjoyment while in our midst, that you may prolong your visit beyond your expectations, and that your visit may, as it certainly will, re-knit and strengthen the bonds of friendship which have always existed between your country and ours.
Mr. President, may I thank you for giving me the honor of speaking these words in honor of our guest.
THE PRESIDENT, Now, may I request the Speaker of the House of Representatives to say a word of welcome, on behalf of the House, to our distinguished guest, His Excellency the President of Brazil.
Speaker of the House, Sam Rayburn: Mr. president of the United States of North America, and Mr. President of Brazil:
I thought that tomorrow when I present the President of Brazil to the Joint Session of the Congress that I would say a word; but I do want to endorse everything that the Vice President of the United States has said with reference to our neighbor to the south, to a great and a proud people, and we welcome their First Representative to the United States of America.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you, Mr. Speaker. The Government of the United States is divided into three sections. You have heard from the representatives of the people. We have a representative of the courts of justice here tonight, who is supposed not only to represent justice but is also supposed to represent brains and learning.
The Chief Justice of the United States, would you say a word of welcome.
Chief Justice Vinson: Mr. President, Mr. President of Brazil:
The President of the United States, as usual, takes in a lot of territory. But it is a pleasing moment to speak a word from the judiciary. And it is peculiarly pleasing to meet again tonight an old friend, a coworker in days when I was working in the executive branch of the Government, de Sousa Costa. We labored together, Mr. President, at Bretton Woods 5 years ago, and that work with him and other representatives of our brothers from the south demonstrated to me what proper understanding can do for not only our hemisphere but for the world.
Our countries for decades from the beginning have been friendly nations. The visit of our President to your country, and your visit to our country can do nothing but promote a better understanding between our countries and our peoples, a solidarity that is needed by your country and by our country and the world.
One would be blind if they could not observe dark clouds in the world. Even the Chief Justice of the United States can see those dark clouds. And it is the understanding, the cooperation, meeting the issues shoulder to shoulder, that can come from countries like yours and countries like ours, in order that we may save and preserve the kind of world that you and we want to live in.
THE PRESIDENT. Now, Mr. President, on behalf of the Government and the people of the United States, I would like, while drinking a toast to you here, to present to you a special medal--solid gold--which has been cast in your honor. This is the only one like it in the world, and the only one like it that will be made.
On behalf of the people of the United States, I present to you this medal, in honor of your visit to the United States.
Ladies and gentlemen, the health of the President of Brazil.
  