
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
May 18
In the morning, the President traveled to Baltimore, MD, and he returned to Washington, DC, in the evening.
May 19
The President announced his intention to nominate Catherine Woteki for Under Secretary for Food Safety at the Department of Agriculture.
The President announced his intention to nominate Shirley Robinson Watkins to be Under Secretary for Food, Nutrition, and Consumer Services at the Department of Agriculture.
May 20
The President announced his intention to nominate David J. Scheffer as Ambassador at Large for War Crimes Issues at the State Department.
The President announced his intention to nominate James W. Pardew as U.S. Representative for Military Stabilization in the Balkans with the rank of Ambassador at the State Department.
The President announced his intention to nominate Ambassador Peter Burleigh as Deputy Representative of the U.S. to the United Nations with the rank of Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary.
May 21
The President announced his intention to nominate John Christian Kornblum as Ambassador to Germany.
The President announced his intention to nominate Marc Grossman as the Assistant Secretary for European and Canadian Affairs.
May 22
In the morning, the President traveled to Clarksburg, WV, and he returned to Washington, DC, in the evening.
The President announced his intention to nominate David R. Andrews as Legal Adviser at the State Department.
The President announced his intention to nominate Stephen R. Sestanovich as Ambassador at Large and Special Adviser to the Secretary of State on the New Independent States at the State Department.
May 23
The President announced his intention to nominate James Phillip Rubin as Assistant Secretary for Public Affairs at the State Department.
The President announced the nomination of Stanley Owen Roth as Assistant Secretary of State for East Asian and Pacific Affairs at the State Department.
The President announced the nomination of Kenneth S. Apfel to serve as Commissioner of the Social Security Administration.
The White House announced that the President has named Anne Luzzatto as Deputy Press Secretary for Foreign Affairs and National Security Council Senior Director for Public Affairs and that Joseph P. Lockhart will replace Mary Ellen Glynn as Deputy Press Secretary.
  