
    President Biden. This compact and statement of intent are a testament to our close bilateral cooperation. And I mean that: close. We're going to establish climate and clean energy as the third pillar of the Australia-U.S. alliance.
This compact is going to enable the expansion of and diversification of clean energy supply chains, especially as it relates to critical materials.
And I want to thank you for your leadership, Mr. Prime Minister. We're going to sign this, the Minister may have a statement, and then—well, you may want to say something now.
Prime Minister Albanese. Yes. Well, thank you, Mr. President. Thank you for your leadership through the Inflation Reduction Act in the United States, but also through your leadership internationally as well, and for including Australia proudly in your Major Economies Forum that met virtually just a few weeks ago.
And Australia is back around the table. And what we know is that action on climate change, I say, is the entry fee to credibility in the Indo-Pacific.
Many of our neighbors understand that climate change is an existential threat. And what we understand is that it's an important component of our national security. And that's why it is an important component—an essential part—of our alliance.
And I thank you for the work that you're doing with us in cooperation. And this is a further step forward today.
President Biden. Well, you're a great partner.
[At this point, President Biden addressed reporters as follows.]
We're going to sign these and then ask you to leave. And we'll come—reset the room and come back in, and we'll have opening statements. And so, please don't hurt each other going out and in, okay?
All right.
Prime Minister Albanese. Here we go.
[President Biden and Prime Minister Albanese signed two copies of the statement of intent. As they exchanged copies, President Biden spoke as follows.]
President Biden. We're ready to go.
[The signing was completed.]
President Biden. All right.
Prime Minister Albanese. Done.
  