
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

Our remarkable agricultural system has enabled our Nation to make great strides in efforts to conquer hunger and to meet the food and fiber needs of our people as well as countless others around the world. But we cannot afford to let up in the battle against accidental injuries and illnesses that take an unduly high toll of those whose toil is responsible for this abundance.
Each year, many thousands of farm and ranch residents and workers are seriously or fatally injured at work, in the home, during recreation, and in traffic accidents.
Although much has been accomplished over the years to make farm life safer and healthier, much more remains to be done. Everyone in the agricultural community should make renewed efforts to be informed about potential hazards and take steps to minimize those dangers. This includes the conscientious use of mechanical safeguards like protective equipment and safety belts. I commend our farm equipment manufacturers for their emphasis on building safeguards into their equipment and warning of possible hazards in operational misuse, but there is no substitute for vigilance and common sense in using equipment. Awareness, on the job and off, is the surest way to avert mishaps and tragedies.
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the week of September 21 through September 27, 1986, as National Farm Safety Week. I urge all those who live and work on farms or ranches to take necessary precautions to protect their safety and health—on the job and off. I also urge leaders in the agricultural community to bolster safety and health efforts in your area by example and by educational programs. I encourage all Americans to participate in appropriate events and activities in observance of National Farm Safety Week.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-first day of May, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-six, and the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and tenth.

RONALD REAGAN
  