
    "My message to rural America is always the same: President Trump hears you and is working to make your life better."
Trump administration stands behind ag producers
By Secretary Sonny Perdue
Omaha World-Herald
May 20, 2018
...
Throughout my travels, I've heard from the people living in rural America about what they want out of this administration: a boost in the economy, a decrease in burdensome regulations, an increase in trade and a farm bill that works for America's agriculture community.
My message to rural America is always the same: President Trump hears you and is working to make your life better.
In the last 16 months, the policies of the Trump administration have proven his commitment to rural America and the American farmer. His pro-growth policies are fueling the economy. We've seen strong farm exports, illustrating worldwide demand.
...
The agriculture community is already seeing benefits from the president's historic tax cuts and reforms. Farmers, ranchers and producers are now able to keep more of what they earn and can reinvest in their operations. The critical changes to the death tax will exempt the majority of family farms. It's an old unfunny joke that farmers live cash poor but die land rich, and that is something we want to change.
For far too long rural America has struggled under the weight of burdensome regulations, written by bureaucrats behind desks in Washington. The Trump administration has been eliminating these regulations at a record pace, slashing 22 existing regulations for every new one that comes on the books. This administration has shown its commitment to renewing prosperity and restoring opportunity across America.
While we have made great strides, there is still work to be done.
There's a good bit of anxiety out there in the farmland with regard to trade. President Trump knows that America's farmers, ranchers, foresters and producers are the ones that feed, fuel and clothe the nation and the rest of the world.
For decades China has not played by the rules. China has maintained unwarranted barriers and trade-distorting policies harming U.S. agricultural products, just like it has with many other U.S. goods. By finally standing up to China, this administration is seeking better market access for our farmers.
...
Read the full op-ed here.
  