
    The following listing includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the White House Press Office and not included elsewhere in this issue.
May 14
The President left Camp Hoover, Va., for Virginia Beach, where he spent the day on a deep sea fishing trip. He then returned to the White House.
The White House and the National Governors' Association announced that they will cosponsor a series of three regional seminars on foreign trade and export development during the month of June.
May 15
The President met at the White House with:
—Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs;
—Frank B. Moore, Assistant to the President for Congressional Liaison;
—the Georgia Democratic congressional delegation;
—Senator and Mrs. Daniel Patrick Moynihan of New York and Mrs. Carter, for lunch;
—James T. Mcintyre, Jr., Director of the Office of Management and Budget.
The President received the first Special Country Music Association Award in a ceremony in the Oval Office.
The President participated in a briefing by administration officials on the strategic arms limitation agreement given for a group of Senators in the East Room at the White House.
The President declared a major disaster for the State of Florida as a result of severe storms, tornadoes, and flooding, beginning on or about May 8, which caused extensive public and private property damage.
May 16
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Mr. Moore, Danny C. Tate, Deputy Assistant for Congressional Liaison (Senate), William H. Cable, Deputy Assistant for Congressional Liaison (House), and James C. Free, Special Assistant for Congressional Liaison (House);
—Gov. Edmund G. Brown, Jr., and State and local officials from California, and members of the California congressional delegation, to discuss the gasoline shortages in California;
—Stansfield Turner, Director of Central Intelligence, Hamilton Jordan, Assistant to the President, and Dr. Brzezinski;
—Senator Edmund S. Muskie of Maine;
—administration officials to discuss the fiscal year 1981 Federal budget and economic overview.
The President participated in a briefing by administration officials on the strategic arms limitation agreement given for a group of community leaders in the East Room at the White House.
The President attended the Georgia State Society Fish Fry at the Longworth House Office Building.
The President transmitted to the Congress the annual report of the Commodity Credit Corporation.
May 17
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Mr. Moore;
—Prime Minister Kalevi Sorsa of Finland, Chairman of the Socialist International Study Group on Disarmament;
—Senator John C. Stennis of Mississippi;
—Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare Joseph A. Califano, Jr., Stuart E. Eizenstat, Assistant to the President for Domestic Affairs and Policy, Charles L. Schultze, Chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers, and Alfred E. Kahn, Advisor to the President on Inflation, to discuss national health insurance;
—Gov. Brendan T. Byrne, Senator Harrison A. Williams, Jr., and Representative James J. Howard, all of New Jersey.
May 18
The President met at the White House with:
—Vice President Mondale, Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance, Dr. Brzezinski, and Mr. Jordan;
—Mr. Moore and Mr. Tate;
—Mr. Schultze;
—a group of editors and news directors (transcript will be printed next week);
—Secretary of Transportation Brock Adams, Secretary of Energy James R. Schlesinger, Frank Press, Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy, Mr. Eizenstat, Mr. Kahn, and representatives of the automobile industry and the academic community, to discuss new initiatives for basic research in automotive technology.
The President left the White House for a weekend stay at Camp David, Md.
  