
    "President Obama has spent the last four years trying to convince Iowans he will stop passing our financial burdens to the next generation. But his liberal policies of skyrocketing debt and deficits just haven't lived up to the promises he's made. As president, Mitt Romney will finally deliver the change Washington needs by reining in wasteful spending and getting our economy moving again." –Amanda Henneberg, Romney Campaign Spokesperson
For The Last Four Years, President Obama Has Assured Iowa Voters He Would Rein In Wasteful Spending And Address The National Debt:
Candidate Obama, In Des Moines In 2008: "I Will Go Through The Federal Budget, Line-By-Line, Ending Programs That We Don't Need And Making The Ones We Do Need Work Better And Cost Less." OBAMA: "As President, I will go through the federal budget, line-by-line, ending programs that we don't need and making the ones we do need work better and cost less. But as I've said from the day we began this journey all those months ago, the change we need isn't just about new programs and policies." (Senator Barack Obama, Remarks, Des Moines, IA, 10/31/08)
President Obama, In Ottumwa In 2010: "For Decades ... Our Deficits Were Unacceptably Large Year After Year..." OBAMA: "For decades, our deficits -- well, actually just a decade -- our deficits were unacceptably large year after year -- because 10 years ago, we actually had a surplus." (President Barack Obama, Remarks, Ottumwa, IA, 4/27/10)
But Every Iowan's Share Of The National Debt Has Increased Dramatically Under President Obama:
Every Iowan Owes $50,062.14 For Their Portion Of The National Debt. (Department Of The Treasury, www.treasurydirect.gov, Accessed 5/13/12; Census Bureau, www.census.gov, Accessed 5/13/12)
The National Debt Has Increased By Approximately $448.5 Billion Since The 2012 Iowa Caucuses In January. (Department Of The Treasury, www.treasurydirect.gov, Accessed 5/13/12)


    Every Iowan's Share Of The National Debt Has Increased By $1,382.01 Since The 2012 Iowa Caucuses In January. (Department Of The Treasury, www.treasurydirect.gov, Accessed 5/13/12; Census Bureau, www.census.gov, Accessed 5/13/12)
  

The National Debt Has Increased By More Than $5 Trillion Since President Obama Took Office. (Department Of The Treasury, www.treasurydirect.gov, Accessed 5/13/12)


    Every Iowan's Share Of The National Debt Has Increased By $15,310.41 Since President Obama Took Office. (Department Of The Treasury, www.treasurydirect.gov, Accessed 5/13/12; Census Bureau, www.census.gov, Accessed 5/13/12)
  

And What About His Pledge To Go "Line-By-Line" Through The Budget? The Obama Administration "Squandered" Taxpayer Dollars On Wasteful Programs:
President Obama's Trillion-Dollar Stimulus "Failed To Live Up" To His Promises Of Job Creation And Lower Unemployment. "CBO's high estimate is still short of the 3.5 million jobs that Obama had said would be created by the end of 2010, so it's accurate to say the stimulus has failed to live up to initial expectations. White House advisers wrongly estimated that the stimulus would bring the unemployment rate down to 7 percent — though they also thought the rate without the stimulus would be lower than it actually is, and they made clear that 'substantial uncertainty' surrounded those estimates." (Lori Robertson, "Dueling Economic Ads," FactCheck.org, 6/30/11)
"Taxpayer Dollars Were Squandered" After GSA Officials Spent Nearly $1 Million For A Lavish Conference For Only 300 Attendees. "GSA Administrator Martha Johnson admitted in a letter of resignation that her agency had made a 'significant misstep' and that 'taxpayer dollars were squandered.' A GSA Inspector General's report on the 2010 GSA 'Western Regions' training conference in Las Vegas shows the government spent more than $822,000 for the 300 attendees..." (Lesa Jansen, "GSA Head Resigns Over 'Wasteful' Las Vegas Seminar," CNN, 4/2/12)
The Obama Administration Engaged In A "Risky Investment Strategy" By "Pouring Your Tax Dollars" Into Controversial Energy Projects. "Solar panel maker Solyndra received a $528 million Energy Department loan in 2009 – and went bankrupt last year. The government's risky investment strategy didn't stop there, as a CBS News investigation has uncovered a pattern of cases of the government pouring your tax dollars into clean energy." (Sharyl Attkisson, "Tax Dollars Backing Some "Risky" Energy Projects," CBS, 1/13/12)
The Wall Street Journal: "The Obama Administration Has Managed The Nearly Impossible Feat Of Turning Energy Policy Into A Money Loser, Pouring Taxpayer Dollars Into Green-Energy Busts Like Solyndra." (Editorial, "The Non-Green Jobs Boom," The Wall Street Journal, 11/26/11)
  