
    The following list does not include promotions of members of the Uniformed Services, nominations to the Service Academies, or nominations of Foreign Service officers.
Submitted May 16
Mary Ann Casey, of Colorado, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Tunisia.
Submitted May 17
Stephen G. Breyer, of Massachusetts, to be an Associate Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States, vice Harry A. Blackmun.
Michael Nacht, of Maryland, to be an Assistant Director of the U.S. Arms Control and Disarmament Agency, vice Linton F. Brooks, resigned.
Amy Sands, of California, to be an Assistant Director of the U.S. Arms Control and Disarmament Agency, vice Manfred Eimer.
Lawrence Scheinman, of New York, to be an Assistant Director of the U.S. Arms Control and Disarmament Agency, vice Bradley Gordon, resigned.
Phyllis Nichamoff Segal, of Massachusetts, to be a member of the Federal Labor Relations Authority for a term of 5 years expiring July 1, 1999, vice Jean McKee, term expiring.
Submitted May 18
Raymond Edwin Mabus, Jr., of Mississippi, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.
Paul Steven Miller, of California, to be a member of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission for a term expiring July 1, 1998, vice Joy Cherian, resigned.
John W. Caldwell, of Georgia, to be U.S. Marshal for the Southern District of Georgia for the term of 4 years, vice Jimmy C. Carter.
Robert Henry McMichael, of Georgia, to be U.S. Marshal for the Northern District of Georgia for the term of 4 years, vice Lynn H. Duncan.
Roy Allen Smith, of Ohio, to be U.S. Marshal for the Southern District of Ohio for the term of 4 years, vice Robert W. Foster.
David William Troutman, of Ohio, to be U.S. Marshal for the Northern District of Ohio for the term of 4 years, vice Albert Z. Moore.
Submitted May 19
Julie D. Belaga, of Connecticut, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Export-Import Bank of the United States for the remainder of the term expiring January 20, 1995, vice Cecil B. Thompson.
Julie D. Belaga, of Connecticut, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Export-Import Bank of the United States for a term expiring January 20, 1999 (reappointment).
Joseph F. Vivona, of New Jersey, to be Chief Financial Officer, Department of Energy (new position).
Rachel Worby, of West Virginia, to be a member of the National Council on the Arts for a term expiring September 3, 1998, vice Ardis Krainik, term expired.
  