
    Gov. Hutchinson's conservative record and willingness to contrast himself with frontrunners sets him apart from the rest of the field
BENTONVILLE, Ark. — Governor Asa Hutchinson, a Republican candidate for President as well as a former governor of Arkansas and official in President George W. Bush's administration, was recently featured in POLITICO's "Deep Dive" Podcast with Ryan Lizza which was the lead in this morning's POLITICO Playbook. Referred to as "the 2024 candidate Dems should fear," this in-depth interview highlighted Governor Hutchinson's conservative bonafides as well as his willingness to contrast himself with the current frontrunners for the Republican nomination. In case you missed it, here are some key takeaways from today's coverage:


"Asa Hutchinson -- Not so long ago, if a former U.S. attorney, congressman, successful two-term governor ran for president in the GOP primary, they would be considered a top-tier presidential candidate."


"If you talk to Democratic strategists about what kind of candidate they fear in 2024, there are a few things on their checklist:


Someone who knows how to speak in the language of inclusion


Someone who can discuss abortion and guns in a way that doesn't alienate suburban voters in states such as Arizona, Wisconsin, and Georgia


Someone who has a record of standing up to his own party on certain issues dominating the culture wars


Someone who can argue that he or she has almost as much governing experience as JOE BIDEN himself, but is still younger


Someone who handled the pandemic in their state in a way that avoided some of the most unpopular decisions of both Democrats and Republicans


And someone who spends a lot of their time explaining to Republicans why the GOP should leave Trump in the past."


"But Asa Hutchinson sounds an awful lot like that imaginary candidate that Democrats fear."


"I believe America is looking for a leader that is forward-looking and willing to bring out the best of America rather than someone who is focused on the past and appeals to our worst instincts," said Gov. Asa Hutchinson, a Republican candidate for President and the former governor of Arkansas. "I will continue to share my vision for America's future including how to repair our broken economy, slash government spending, reduce the size of the federal government, reinforce the rule of law, and foster the American Dream for generations to come."
  