
    Mother's Day Celebration: Today Hillary and Chelsea celebrate Mother's Day in Grafton, WV, where the holiday originated 100 years ago.
A Mother's Day Wish: In a new video, Chelsea shares some of her fondest memories of her mother, and asks mothers across the country to share their mother's day wishes with her. [Watch here.]
Why I Support Hillary: This Mother's Day, the deputy campaign counsel blogs, "It is because of my daughters that I understand what is at stake in this election, and why it is urgent and necessary that we choose for our country the leadership that we deserve...As a mother, what I wish most for my daughters is a bright future.  For that, their country needs to get back on course." Read more.
Automatic Delegate Watch: Massachusetts delegate Arthur Powell yesterday announced his support for Hillary.
If You Read One Thing Today: In a Charleston Gazette op-ed today, Hillary writes, "For the past seven years, I know so many of you have felt invisible to our president - holding your breath at the gas pump and the grocery checkout line; wondering what you'll do when health insurance disappears when a job does; seeing your loved ones who served our country in war ill-served when they return home. I am running for president to stand for you and fight for your dreams and your future." Read more.
"The Vote of a Lifetime" "To [Florence Steen], a woman born seven months before her gender won the right to vote in August 1920, seeing Clinton's name on a presidential ballot and marking her vote nearby was a dream realized ...‘She was very alert, very serious in studying the ballot,' [her daughter, Kathy] Kraus said. ‘And when she marked it, she just kept circling and circling that mark with her pencil.'" Read more.
In Case You Missed It: Only one thing matters; winning the Presidency in November. Hillary Clinton has proven she is by far the strongest candidate and most likely to achieve that victory. How can she convince the Democratic Party delegates? Read more.
On Tap: Tomorrow, Hillary will attend events in Montgomery, Clear Fork, Logan, and Fairmont, West Virginia.
  