
    Pool Reports by Emily Goodin, Daily Mail 



Sent:
Reports:




May 23, 202211:12 CST

FLOTUS travel pool #1 - community center visit
Dr. Biden arrived at the Casa Joaquin Gutierrez, a community center, at 10:26 am local time (-2 ET).
The center gets some funding from State Department.
"It's important to see how the United States is working with different counties in the Americas, supporting each other," Biden said.
Rundown of event:
First up was a Tae Kwon Do demonstration in one of the center's rooms. Three girls and their female coach performed. The coach called commands and the girls executed as FLOTUS watched.
"Thank you," Dr. Biden said and clapped.
Then the two older girls did a fighting demonstration.
"I don't think anybody wants to mess with these girls," Biden said. She shook hands with all of them. "You are so strong."
She asked their ages, how long they have been doing Tae Kwon Do, and how they chose it.
"Look at this little one," Biden said putting her arms around the youngest, who was a preteen. The other two girls are in their teens.
"Are all the boys afraid of you," Biden asked the little one.
"No," she said.
"Oh I am. I'm afraid of you," Biden said.
Next up Biden went outside to a soccer field. She talked to a soccer team. The team was both boys and girls. Biden asked where they were from and how many teams they played.
"I love your uniforms," Biden said. "Good luck to all of you."
The outside area is also set up for a painting workspace, a ballet demonstration and a band to perform.
Next up was a painting workshop.
There were seven people painting, some copying other prints and others creating their own art. Biden asked about the paintings.
She asked one boy how he found about the program. Pool couldn't hear answer. Biden called over one woman sitting in the sun: "you shouldn't be sitting in the sun." She then realized the girl was posing for two of the art students. "Oh you're posing." She was told the girl was standing in good lighting for the students. The boy and girl student were using charcoal to sketch the girl's face. The art area is outside but under a roofed area with open walls.
Biden had the girl show her charcoal sketch and asked her what she wanted to do with the art. The girl said she wanted to show the world Costa Rican art.
Carla Ortega, Program Manager, said "We try to improve the quality of life kids in the most vulnerable communities." She said they provide art and sport programs to give the kids a safe space.
"You can see what an impact it's making. It's important to see how the United States is working with different counties in the Americas, supporting each other," Biden said.
Then a group of eight girls did a ballet performance to the Beatles "Yesterday." The girls wore black pants and gray shirts with yellow sunflowers in their hair.
"It's beautiful. Thank you," Biden said after. Then she walked up to meet the girls. "Beautiful job."
Biden said she was told this was a program to empower young women. "It so important that young women have confidence," Biden said.
One of the girls said the program made her feel safe and happy and she could be herself.
Biden took a group pic with the girls.
Then a band played a peppy jazzy tune. "Viva Costa Rica," the players yelled at end.
"That was amazing. Thank you so much," Biden said.
She asked who they perform for and how often they practice. She was told they perform all over Costa Rica and practice once a week.
They took a group photo. Pool was pulled while Biden was talking to the band.
Biden is wearing a purple pants suit with a white shirt.
Background from the East Wing:
Today, the First Lady will tour Casa Joaquin Gutierrez, a community center in San Jose's Alajuelita municipality. At this center, the U.S. Embassy in San Jose has partnered with the Alajuelita municipality and the Costa Rican Ministry of Public Security to support and provide a safe environment and positive activities for young adults and adolescents – particularly those who are most vulnerable – in the community as part of a broader national citizen security campaign called "Sembremos Seguridad" (or "Sowing Seeds of Security").
Through her visit, Dr. Biden will learn about U.S. support for and partnership on citizen security programs, which aim to build resilient communities and promote security throughout Costa Rica. Along the tour, she will interact with young people who are participating in various activities and workshops, including a Tae Kwon Do demonstration, soccer game, painting workshop, and ballet performance.
Upon arrival, the First Lady and United States Ambassador to Costa Rica Cynthia Telles will greet with the following individuals:

Modesto Aplizar Luna, Mayor of Alajuelita
Rosario Siles Fernandez, Vice Mayor of Alajuelita
Carla Ortega, Program Manager, U.S. Embassy's Office of International Narcotics and Law Enforcement Affairs (INL). Carla will lead the tour.

Costa Rica and the United States collaborate on the "Sembremos Seguridad" citizen security program in all of the country's municipalities, working to address insecurity and supporting resilient communities that can serve as an alternative to organized crime. To support these efforts, the U.S. Department of State – through the U.S. Embassy's Office of International Narcotics and Law Enforcement Affairs (INL) – provides assistance to prevention centers throughout the country with donations (e.g., construction materials, furniture, music instruments, sports equipment, and computer equipment), guidance, and programming (e.g., cooking, English lessons, computer classes, music, dancing, and sports).
Dr. Biden will visit one of the most successful prevention centers in Costa Rica, Casa Joaquin Gutierrez. This center, founded in 2018, reaches about 1,500 members of the Alajuelita community. It was named in commemoration of the Costa Rican writer and poet, Joaquin Gutierrez. Despite having fewer resources than many other municipalities in the country, Alajuelita has provided successful programs and unified the community around the center. The U.S. Embassy supplied building materials to help renovate the community center and works closely with the Alajuelita municipality on much of its citizen security programming. Young people –ages 12 to 23 years old – from Alajuelita and nearby communities participate in workshops or activities at Casa Joaquin Gutierrez that are designed to help them build their lives and, when applicable, return to formal education. The center offers services and activities to young adults and adolescents, and prioritizes those who are not currently studying or working.
Note the pool traveled to the community center ahead of FLOTUS to preset after being Covid tested.
Motorcade is rolling at 11:07 am.
Next stop - the airport to head home.



May 23, 202212:40 CST

FLOTUS travel pool #2 - FLOTUS comments on Summit of Americas and wheels up to JBA
The motorcade arrived at the San Jose airport at 11:30 am.
FLOTUS took question. Asked if she was reassured countries would come to Summit of the Americas.
"All of the countries I've visited said that they would be there. I'm looking forward to it. It's in like 10 days."
Asked if she was worried about boycott threat. "I'm not worried. I think that they'll come."
She took photos with her police escort and staff on the tarmac. She hugged United States Ambassador to Costa Rica Cynthia Telles goodbye before boarding her plane.
Executive One Foxtrot is wheels up shortly for JBA. Flight time is four and half hours.



May 23, 202218:44 EDT

FLOTUS travel pool #3 - arrival at JBA
Executive One Foxtrot was wheels down JBA at 6:25 pm ET.
Dr. Biden stepped off the plane at 6:37 pm with a wave. She waved to the pool as she got in her car.
During the return flight, Dr. Biden came back with a chocolate birthday cake to wish New York Times' photographer Erin Schaff a happy birthday. FLOTUS led the cabin in singing to Schaff. Schaff declined to tell the pool what she wished for.
At 6:40 pm motorcade is rolling to White House.



May 23, 202219:16 EDT

FLOTUS travel pool #4 - arrival at White House
The motorcade arrived back at the White House at 7:00 pm. We were lights and sirens the drive back.
Pool did not see Dr. Biden enter the residence.
Thanks to my co-poolers for their help on this six day trip. And thanks to the staff of the East Wing, advance teams, Secret Service, medical unit and embassies for their work.
That's a wrap folks.




  