
    WHAT: At a roundtable with President Trump, community leaders spoke out against the sanctuary policies that are jeopardizing the safety of their communities.
During a roundtable with President Trump, local leaders from across California spoke out against the statewide sanctuary policies enacted under Governor Jerry Brown. Local leaders called out sanctuary policies for what they are: dangerous.
San Jacinto Mayor Crystal Ruiz spoke about California's statewide officials, saying "Our children are at risk. My community is my family. You're putting my family at risk."
The Mayor of Escondido Sam Abed said, "When Jerry Brown cares more about illegal criminals than he cares about the Hispanic community and the American citizens, this is insanity, and this is unconstitutional ... This is personal to me. I'm going to work hard to make sure our community is safe."
Assemblywoman Melissa Melendez (CA-67) said she hears from constituents every week who say they "don't want to see another Kate Steinle," referring to the killing of Kate Steinle by an illegal alien with a lengthy criminal history.
El Dorado County Sheriff John D'Agostini told the President that "this bill absolutely jeopardizes public safety in our communities."
These communities simply want to protect the safety of their residents.
WHY: When sanctuary jurisdictions obstruct Federal immigration enforcement, they often allow criminal aliens to be released into American communities.
Sanctuary jurisdictions often hold back Federal immigration authorities from being able to effectively carry out their duties by denying requests to detain a criminal alien for a short period of time or refusing to provide notice to Federal authorities before releasing criminal aliens in their custody. As a result, sanctuary jurisdictions often enable criminal aliens to be released and avoid removal. Too many of these released criminal aliens have gone on to commit crimes that could potentially have been prevented had the alien been detained and removed from the United States.
In January 2018, an alien was arrested in Los Angeles for possession of a controlled substance. Federal authorities issued a detainer request which was not honored, and the individual was arrested again the following month for murder.
In February 2018, an alien was arrested in California for burglary, possession of burglary tools, and criminal conspiracy, but a detainer request for the individual was denied and he was released. The individual was arrested again in April 2018 for attempted murder.
In March 2018, an alien was arrested in Santa Cruz, California for inflicting corporal injury on a spouse, but a Federal detainer request was not honored and he was released. The individual was arrested again less the two weeks later for the same crime.
  