
    The following listing includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the White House Press Office and not included elsewhere in this issue.
May 11
The President returned to the White House from Camp David, Md.
May 12
The President met at the White House with:
—Vice President Walter F. Mondale, Edmund S. Muskie, Secretary, Warren M. Christopher, Deputy Secretary, and Harold H. Saunders, Assistant Secretary for Near Eastern and South Asian Affairs, Department of State, Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs, Ambassador Sol M. Linowitz, Personal Representative of the President to the Middle East peace negotiations, Alfred L. Atherton, U.S. Ambassador to Egypt, and Samuel W. Lewis, U.S. Ambassador to Israel, to discuss the Middle East peace negotiations;
—Dr. Carroll L. Wilson and American members of the World Coal Study (WOCOL), on the occasion of the release of the study in 16 participating countries;
—Mark A. Smith, Jr., president of Kiwanis International.
The President participated in a ceremony relating to the issuance of the proclamation naming May 16 as National Defense Transportation Day and May 11-17 as National Transportation Week. Participants in the Cabinet Room ceremony included Secretary of Energy Charles W. Duncan, Jr., and Ralph Purcival, international chairman of National Transportation Week, who presented the President with a poster.
The President attended a White House reception for members of the Industrial Union Department of the AFL-CIO Legislative Conference.
The President received the report of the Emergency Board investigating the dispute between the Port Authority Trans-Hudson Corporation (PATH) and. employees represented by the Brotherhood of Railway Carmen.
The President announced the following appointments:
JAMES H. QUACKENBUSH, Director of the Office of International Organizations and Technical Assistance at the Labor Department, as the U.S. Representative on the Governing Body of the International Labor Office; and
REPRESENTATIVE PHILLIP BURTON of California as a member of the Northern Mariana Islands Commission on Federal Laws.
The President announced that he has accorded the personal rank of Ambassador to Charles N. Van Doren while he serves as Head of the U.S. Delegation to the Non-Proliferation Treaty Review Conference, to be held in Geneva from August 11 to September 5. Mr. Van Doren is Assistant Director for Non-Proliferation at the United States Arms Control and Disarmament Agency.
May 13
The President met at the White House with:
—David L. Aaron, Deputy Assistant for National Security Affairs;
— the Democratic congressional leadership;
—Frank B. Moore, Assistant to the President for Congressional Liaison;
—representatives of the Hostage Family Liaison Action Group, who reported to the President on their meetings with U.S. allies in Europe on behalf of the American hostages in Tehran.
The President participated in a briefing by administration officials on administration policies and programs given for members of the San Francisco Chamber of Commerce.
The President announced the appointment of two members of the Committee for Purchase from the Blind and Other Severely Handicapped. They are:
FRANK GEARDE, JR., Deputy Director for Administrative Services, Office of Operations and Finance, Department of Agriculture; and
MERVIN J. FLANDER, chief of the Nevada Bureau of Services to the Blind.
The White House announced that the Government will immediately appeal the decision by the District Court on the gasoline conservation fee. The Government will ask for an expedited ruling by the appellate courts and will also ask for a stay of certain aspects of the lower court decision. The administration continues to feel strongly that the gasoline conservation fee is sound and necessary.
May 14
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Mr. Moore;
—Prime Minister John David Gibbons of Bermuda;
—the presidents and chief executive officers of five U.S. automobile companies, Douglas Fraser, president of the United Auto Workers, Vice President Mondale, Secretary of Labor Ray Marshall, Secretary of the Treasury G. William Miller, Secretary of Transportation Neil Goldschmidt, and other administration officials, to discuss current auto industry problems;
—Members of Congress, to discuss the Cuban refugee situation;
—representatives of the U.S. Delegation to the International Labor Conference, which is to be held in Geneva in June.
May 15
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Hedley W. Donovan, Senior Adviser to the President.
The President participated in a briefing by administration officials on administration policies and programs given for members of the national cabinet of the United Jewish Appeal in the East Room at the White House.
The President declared a major disaster for the State of Missouri as a result of severe storms and tornadoes, beginning on May 12, which caused extensive property damage.
The President designated Deputy Secretary of State Warren M. Christopher to head the U.S. Delegation to the May 26-27 Geneva Conference on Kampuchean relief. The conference is to be convened by U.N. Secretary-General Kurt Waldheim in response to a May 1 resolution of the U.N. Economic and Social Council. May 16
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Secretary of Defense Harold Brown, Deputy Secretary of State Christopher, Hamilton Jordan, Assistant to the President, Lloyd N. Cutler, Counsel to the President, Dr. Brzezinski, and Mr. Donovan;
—Mr. Moore;
—Charles L. Schultze, Chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers;
—Rev. Jesse Jackson, national president of Operation PUSH, Mayor Richard Hatcher of Gary, Ind., and other leaders of the May 17 March on Washington.
The President participated in a briefing by administration officials on administration policies and programs given for civic and community leaders from Western States in the East Room at the White House.
The President left the White House for a weekend stay at Camp David.
The President declared a major disaster for the State of Michigan as a result of severe storms and tornadoes, beginning on or about May 13, which caused extensive property damage.
  