
    The President. Well, ladies and gentlemen of the press, I won't take too much of your time, but I just want to say first, and before the Prime Minister is heard, that this has been a most fruitful meeting for both our countries. We have established a bond of friendship. In fact, last night, the Prime Minister referred to it that we were buddies. And we have come to an agreement, or at least discovered, perhaps I should say, that we're in agreement on a number of broad issues—economic, political, military-and have established a base whereby we can have full consultation, and any possible difference or misunderstanding that might arise that we can be in instant contact to resolve it. So, we're most grateful and honored that the Vice President [Prime Minister] has been here. And as I say, I think we're all much better for what has been decided in the meetings we've held.
Mr. Prime Minister.
The Prime Minister. Mr. President, thank you very much for your kind words. As you've just said, through the 2 days of talks with you, Mr. President, we have been able to establish between us an unshakable basis of friendship and mutual trust. And this is the greatest treasure that I take home from my visit to the United States to Japan.
Also, in the course of our 2 days of talks, we touched on a broad range of issues-political, economic, and other issues, including the questions of the relationship between the developing and the developed parts of the world and also including the question of how the countries in the West should cooperate together in securing, in a comprehensive manner, the security of the West as a whole.
We did engage in very forthright and open exchanges of views and, as a result, we were able to confirm that we have a basic convergence of views and perceptions about the important matters that face the international community today. We were also able to reaffirm that we are both dedicated to the common goal of securing world peace and stability and prosperity, and we reaffirmed our common resolve to join our hands together and move vigorously forward to that end.
We also agreed that we will always be in very close touch. We will communicate with each other very closely, consult very closely on these global issues, as well as on the problems that we may have in our bilateral relations. On the basis of mutual trust and friendship that I have been able to establish with you, Mr. President, as true partners and as true friends, we can certainly contribute together to the further advancement of the relations between our two countries.
My visit this time has been very, very fruitful, thanks to your kind cooperation. And I'm happy to report to you that I'm perfectly satisfied with the very fruitful visit that I've been able to have.
Thank you very much.
  