
    Each day, millions of Americans rely on our Nation's strong aviation infrastructure to travel and do business. On Aviation Maintenance Technician Day, we acknowledge the thousands of hard-working men and women who help ensure the safety, security, and reliability of the aviation industry.
Our country's storied history of flight is a testament to the innovative spirit and industriousness of the American people. Today we honor a talented man who exemplified these traits: Charles Edward Taylor. Often referred to as the "Father of Aviation Maintenance," Charles served as a mechanic for Orville and Wilbur Wright and was a pioneer in the aviation industry, making fundamental contributions to the building of the engine used to help man achieve powered flight.
My administration is committed to helping expand opportunities for our country's hard-working men and women to develop the skills to succeed in technical careers. Last December, the National Science and Technology Council's Committee on STEM Education released the Federal 5-year STEM education strategic plan for incorporating the most advanced resources and research into educating and training our future workforce. I also signed into law a reauthorization of the Carl D. Perkins Career and Technical Education Act to provide career-focused training and education to nearly 12 million students and workers. Additionally, I established the National Council for the American Worker to expand apprenticeships and encourage investment in worker education.
Today we express our gratitude to the men and women who carry on our Nation's legacy of aviation and work diligently to ensure our aircraft continue operating at the standard of excellence synonymous with American industry. Looking forward, my administration will continue to prioritize offering the next generation of technicians, mechanics, and engineers every opportunity to succeed and preserve our country's status as the world's leader in aviation technology and industry.
  