
    
  STATEMENT OF ADMINISTRATION POLICY

(Senate)
(Sen. Inouye, D-Hawaii)
The Administration strongly supports Senate passage of S. 1054, Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2009, which will fund our ongoing military, diplomatic, and intelligence operations, provide emergency funding to strengthen the response to the 2009-H1N1 influenza outbreak, and expand the borrowing authority for the International Monetary Fund (IMF).
We face a security situation in Afghanistan and Pakistan that demands urgent attention. The Taliban is resurgent and al Qaeda continues to operate from its safe haven along the Afghan-Pakistan border. The Administration urges the Congress to move expeditiously to approve this funding to help the people of Iraq take responsibility for their own future and work to disrupt, dismantle, and defeat al Qaeda in Pakistan and Afghanistan. The Administration looks forward to working with Congress going forward to ensure that these priorities are maintained and that unnecessary items and earmarks are not included in a final conference bill.
Foreign Operations Matters
The Administration appreciates that the Committee supports the President's international affairs priorities, including those involving Afghanistan, Pakistan, and Iraq. In addition, the Administration welcomes the Committee's support for Administration efforts to assist the Palestinian people, bolster the Mexican government’s efforts to combat drug trafficking and organized crime, meet humanitarian needs worldwide, and help to address the impact of the global financial crisis on developing countries. The Administration commends the Committee for expanding the U.S. participation in the IMF New Arrangements to Borrow, and increasing the U.S. quota subscription—crucial measures to protect U.S. economic interests and stabilize the global financial system.
The Administration also appreciates that the Committee provides the authorization necessary for the United States to meet its international commitments to the International Development Association and the African Development Fund.
2009-H1N1 Influenza
The Administration appreciates the Committee's inclusion of resources to respond to the current 2009-H1N1 influenza outbreak and to prepare for a possible future pandemic influenza. The President requested additional funds and flexibility to enhance our Nation’s capability to respond domestically and internationally. Given the unpredictability and uncertainty of the outbreak, it is important to have maximum flexibility to be able to allocate and deploy resources to the most critical activities as the outbreak evolves. The Administration looks forward to working with the Congress to enact the appropriate funding and authorities to support the response to the outbreak.
  