
    By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and statutes of the United States of America, including the Act of February 14, 1903, as amended (15 U.S.C. 1501 et seq.), section 10 of the Gold Reserve Act of 1934, as amended (31 U.S.C. 822a), and section 301 of title 3 of the United States Code, and as President of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered as follows:
SECTION 1. (a) There is hereby established the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States (hereinafter referred to as the Committee). The Committee shall be composed of a representative, whose status is not below that of an Assistant Secretary, designated by each of the following:
(1) The Secretary of State.
(2) The Secretary of the Treasury.
(3) The Secretary of Defense.
(4) The Secretary of Commerce.
(5) The Assistant to the President for Economic Affairs.
(6) The Executive Director of the Council on International Economic Policy.
The representative of the Secretary of the Treasury shall be the chairman of the Committee. The chairman, as he deems appropriate, may invite representatives of other departments and agencies to participate from time to time in activities of the Committee.
(b) The Committee shall have primary continuing responsibility within the Executive Branch for monitoring the impact of foreign investment in the United States, both direct and portfolio, and for coordinating the implementation of United States policy on such investment. In fulfillment of this responsibility, the Committee shall:
(1) arrange for the preparation of analyses of trends and significant developments in foreign investments in the United States;
(2) provide guidance on arrangements with foreign governments for advance consultations on prospective major foreign governmental investments in the United States;
(3) review investments in the United States which, in the judgment of the Committee, might have major implications for United States national interests; and
(4) consider proposals for new legislation or regulations relating to foreign investment as may appear necessary.
(c) As the need arises, the Committee shall submit recommendations and analyses to the National Security Council and to the Economic.Policy Board. It shall also arrange for the preparation and publication of periodic reports.
SEC. 2. The Secretary of Commerce, with respect to the collection and use of data on foreign investment in the United States, shall provide, in particular, for the performance of the following activities:
(a) The obtainment, consolidation, and analysis of information on foreign investment in the United States;
(b) the improvement of procedures for the collection and dissemination of information on such foreign investment;
(c) the close observation of foreign investment in the United States;
(d) the preparation of reports and analyses of trends and of significant developments in appropriate categories of such investment;
(e) the compilation of data and preparation of evaluations of significant investment transactions; and
(f) the submission to the Committee of appropriate reports, analyses, data and recommendations relating to foreign investment in the United States, including recommendations as to how information on foreign investment can be kept current.
SEC. 3. The Secretary of the Treasury is authorized, without further approval of the President, to make reasonable use of the resources of the Exchange Stabilization Fund, in accordance with section 10 of the Gold Reserve Act of 1934, as amended (31 U.S.C. 822a), to pay any of the expenses directly incurred by the Secretary of Commerce in the performance of the functions and activities provided by this order. This authority shall be in effect for one year, unless revoked prior thereto.
SEC. 4. All departments and agencies are directed to provide, to the extent permitted by law, such information and assistance as may be requested by the Committee or the Secretary of Commerce in carrying out their functions and activities under this order.
SEC. 5. Information which has been submitted or received in confidence shall not be publicly disclosed, except to the extent required by law; and such information shall be used by the Committee only for the purpose of carrying out the functions and activities prescribed by this order.
SEC. 6. Nothing in this order shall affect the data-gathering, regulatory, or enforcement authority of any existing department or agency over foreign investment, and the review of individual investments provided by this order shall not in any way supersede or prejudice any other process provided by law.
GERALD R. FORD
The White House,
May 7, 1975.
  