
    Dear Mr. Attorney General:
On May 14, 1957, by virtue of the authority vested in me by section 206 of the Labor Management Relations Act, 1947 (61 Stat. 155 ), I issued Executive Order No. 10710 creating a Board of Inquiry to inquire into the issues involved in a labor dispute between the Goodyear Atomic Corporation and certain of its employees represented by Local 10-689 of the Oil, Chemical, and Atomic Workers International Union, AFL-CIO, at certain facilities of the Atomic Energy Commission.
On May 15, 1957, I received the Board's written report in the matter. A copy of that report is attached hereto. The labor dispute which led to the strike and which is referred to in Executive Order No. 10710 has not been resolved and continues to the present time. This strike involves the Atomic Energy Commission's gaseous diffusion plant, known as the Portsmouth Plant, near Waverly, Ohio.
In my opinion, this unresolved labor dispute has resulted in a strike affecting an entire industry, or a substantial part thereof, engaged in trade, commerce, transportation, transmission or communication among the several States and with foreign nations, which strike, if permitted to continue, will imperil the national safety.
In order to remove a peril to the national safety and to secure a resumption of trade, commerce, transportation, transmission, or communication among the several States and foreign nations, I direct you, pursuant to the provisions of section 208 of the Labor Management Relations Act, 1947, to petition in the name of the United States any District Court of the United States having jurisdiction of the parties to enjoin such strike at the Portsmouth Plant facilities of the Atomic Energy Commission located near Waverly, Ohio, and for such other relief as may, in your judgment, be necessary or appropriate to protect the national interest.
Sincerely,
DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER
NOTE.: Executive Order 10710 was published in the Federal Register (22 F. R. 3405) and in title 3 of the Code of Federal Regulations.
The Board's report of May 15, 1957, and a final report submitted on July 16, 1957, by the Chairman, Guy Farmer, were not printed. Multilithed copies of both reports were made available by the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service.
  