
    Pool Reports by Zachary Petrizzo, The Daily Beast 



Sent:
Reports:




May 13, 2023 08:44

In-Town Pool Report Number One, Saturday May 13th
Good morning,
We have reached our 8:30 AM call time for the in-town pool. At 9:10 AM, the pool will gather at the Palm Room Doors for a south lawn departure to the Capital One Arena for President Biden’s Howard University commencement address.


May 13, 2023 09:15

In-Town Pool Report Number Two, Saturday May 13th
The in-town pool is gathering / leaving on the outside Palm Room Doors area. Thank you. 


May 13, 2023 09:41

In-Town Pool Report Number Three, Saturday May 13th
POTUS and the pool are on the move to the Capitol One Arena for his commencement address.
The following are traveling with POTUS:
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President & Director of Oval Office OperationsVinay Reddy, Assistant to the President & Director of Speechwriting Ashley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office Operations Travis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director Terry Wolff, Special Assistant to the President & National Security Council Senior Director for MENA 


May 13, 2023 09:51

In-Town Pool Report Number Four, Saturday May 13th
The in-town has arrived at the Capitol One Arena. Soon-to-be Howard University graduates are walking into the venue and taking their seats.
The following traveled with POTUS to the Capitol One Arena:
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations Vinay Reddy, Assistant to the President & Director of Speechwriting Ashley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office Operations Travis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director Terry Wolff, Special Assistant to the President & National Security Council Senior Director for MENA 


May 13, 2023 10:26

In-Town Pool Report Number Five, Saturday May 13th
President Biden has arrived at Capitol One Arena. POTUS is wearing a gold medal that says 'Doctor of Letters,' the local pool photographer shared with me.
The following are joining President Biden at the Capitol One Arena for his commencement address:
Keith Christopher Rowley, Prime Minister of the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago Rep. Jim Clyburn (SC-06)  Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations Vinay Reddy, Assistant to the President & Director of Speechwriting Ashley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office Operations Travis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director Terry Wolff, Special Assistant to the President & National Security Council Senior Director for MENA Graduates and their families and university faculty, staff, and leadership 


May 13, 2023 11:04

In-Town Pool Report Number Six, Saturday May 13th
President Biden is currently seated on stage ahead of his address at the Capital One Arena. POTUS will be honored with an Honorary 'Doctor of Letters Degree' from Howard University.
The White House shared the following:
Participants Dr. Wayne A. I. Frederick, President of Howard University Dr. Laurence C. Morse, Chairman of the Board of Trustees
Other 2023 Howard University Honorary Degree recipients Keith Christopher Rowley, Prime Minister of the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago Rep. Jim Clyburn (SC-06) Bruce A. Karsh, Co-founder & Co-chairman of Oaktree Capital Management Martha L. Karsh, Co-founder of architectural & design firm Clark & Karsh A. Eugene Washington, Chancellor of Health Affairs at Duke University & President & CEO of the Duke University Health System Benaree Pratt Wiley, Corporate Director & Trustee 


May 13, 2023 12:06

In-Town Pool Report Number Seven, Saturday May 13th
President Biden has wrapped up speaking at the Capital One Arena. During his speech, a series of 12 protesters-some with signs/some without- stood up to protest POTUS/assortment of other concerns such as DOD research, which one student called "imperialism." The pooling is now departing for JBA. 


May 13, 2023 12:59

In-Town Pool Report Number Eight, Saturday May 13th
President Biden took off from JBA aboard Air Force One around 12:55. While on the tarmac, POTUS took questions from reporters under the wing. In-town couldn’t hear the questions. 




Pool Reports below by Catherine Lucey, The Wall Street Journal 



Sent:
Reports:




May 13, 2023 12:47

Out of town Pool Report #1 - Andrews
Good afternoon.
POTUS arrived at Andrews Air Force Base via motorcade at 12:39 PM in light rain. He exited the beast.
He spoke briefly on the debt talks. Some comments:
"They're moving along" said there was "Real discussion" but "Not there yet."
"We've not reached the crunch point yet"
Did not answer a Q on when he will meet with leaders.
Please check against transcript.
We are on the small plane today so will lose signal when I board. We will be wheels up shortly.
From the White House:
Greeting the President upon arrival at Joint Base Andrews:
Colonel Matthew Jones, Commander, 89th Airlift Wing
Traveling with the President aboard Air Force One en route to Dover Air Force Base:
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations Terry Wolff, Special Assistant to the President & National Security Council Senior Director for MENA 


May 13, 2023 13:15

Out of town Pool Report #2 - Gaggle quotes
Some fuller quotes from the brief gaggle on debt ceiling:
"We'll know more in the next two days."
"We're moving along, it's hard to tell. We've not reached the crunch point yet. There's real discussion about some changes we all could make. We're not there yet."
On how confident he is about a deal before June 1: "Has to be." 


May 13, 2023 13:28

Out of town Pool Report #3 - Dover
Air Force One was wheels down at Dover Air Force Base at 1:14 PM.
POTUS exited at 1:24 PM wearing a baseball cap and a blue jacket and got into his vehicle. At 1:27 PM the motorcade was rolling. 


May 13, 2023 14:23

Out of Town Pool Report #4 - Rehoboth
The president’s motorcade arrived at his neighborhood in Rehoboth at 2:19 PM. The press van did not turn into the street leading to the president’s house and we did not see him.
Pool is now holding at Gordons Pond State Park. 


May 13, 2023 16:02

Out of Town Pool Report #5 - Rolling
The press van joined the president’s motorcade near his home at 3:59 PM. Pool did not see POTUS.
We are rolling in the rain. 


May 13, 2023 16:10

Out of Town Pool Report #6 - Mass
The motorcade arrived at St. Edmond Roman Catholic Church at 4:05 PM. Pool did not see POtUS enter the church. It is still pouring rain. 


May 13, 2023 17:13

Out of Town Pool Report #7 - Leaving Mass, Back to House
POTUS exited the church at 5:01 PM and entered his vehicle in the pouring rain. Annie Tomasini walked with him holding an umbrella.
Annie is Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations.
At 5:04 PM the motorcade was rolling. At 5:10 PM it arrived back in his neighborhood. The pool van peeled away and did not turn into his street so we did not see him. 


May 13, 2023 17:14

Out of town Pool report #8 - Lid
At 5:12 PM we have a lid. Have a good night.



  