
    Pool Reports by Niels Lesniewski, CQ Roll Call



Sent:
Reports:




 May 21, 2020 11:45

 In-town pool report #1 
Good morning from the White House where your pooler has taken the Abbott COVID-19 diagnostic test and is now awaiting the call to gather for the president's departure on Marine One.
POTUS is scheduled to depart the White House at noon for his trip to Michigan. 


 May 21, 2020 12:05

 In-town pool report #2 
The pool is now gathering for the president's (slightly-delayed) departure on Marine One.


 May 21, 2020 12:33

 In-town pool report #3 -- POTUS takes questions 
POTUS emerged at 12:30 p.m., and he has stopped to speak to the press before boarding Marine One.
More tk.


 May 21, 2020 12:42

 In-town pool report #4 
The president just finished speaking, topics have included the withdrawal from the Open Skies treaty, the efforts to develop vaccines and therapeutics to treat COVID-19 and other matters.
"We don't want them to do mail-in ballots because it will lead to total election fraud," the president said of vote-by mail plans.
He said thought the G7 would be on, most likely at the White House, with a piece possible at Camp David.
More tk 


 May 21, 2020 12:47

 In-town pool report #5 - wheels up 
Marine One was wheels up at 12:44 p.m.
The president also suggested he was interested in going to Florida for the rocket launch next week.
More tk 


 May 21, 2020 13:19

 in-town pool report #6 - quotes from the president 
The out-of-town pool has taken the handoff. Here's more of what the president said before departing the White House grounds.
As always, check the quotes against the transcript.
Your pooler missed over the chopper noise the first bit of the president's statement, but he said he just finished a meeting with Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell.
"We've got a lot of good things going. We've just had a meeting with Mitch McConnell and the group, and we're working on a package of very positive."
"It looks like numbers are going to be very good into the future, we're going to be very strong starting with our transition period starting with June, June-July. I think you're going to see some very good numbers coming out," the president said.
POTUS then took a moment to mention the people who have lost their lives from COVID-19 and said, "we always have to remember that."
The first question was about the response to the flooding in Michigan. He said "we've put our best people into Michigan, and our most talented engineers, designers."
"We're looking at the floods. We have our people from the Army Corps of Engineers there, we have FEMA there. I spoke to the governor, Governor Whitmer, yesterday, and we have a very good understanding."
On withdrawal from the Open Skies treaty:
"I think we have a very good relationship with Russia, but Russia didn't adhere to the treaty, and so until they adhere to the treaty, we will pull out," POTUS said. "There's a very good chance we'll make a new agreement or do something to put that agreement back together."
On arms treaties:
"We're probably going to make a deal with Russia on arms treaties, and China will be maybe included in that, we'll see what happens."
"Well, I don't know, we're going to look at it. A lot of people have asked me that question. I want to get our country back to normal. I want to normalize. One of the other things I want to do is get the churches open."
"The churches are not being treated with respect by a lot of the Democrat governors. I want to get our churches open and we're going to take a very strong position on that very soon."
On treatments for COVID-19
"We have a lot of things happening on the vaccine front or the therapeutic front. If you look at therapeutically, we're doing great. And on the cure front ... I think we have tremendous things."
"You're going to have a lot of big announcements over the next week or two," on therapeutics.
The president later said he had one more day of the Hydroxychloroquine prophylaxis treatment, and he said he has not taken a COVID-19 antibody test.
On voting by mail:
"We don't want them to do mail-in ballots because it's going to lead to total election fraud, so we don't want them to do mail-in ballots. We don't want anyone to do mail-in ballots ... now, if someone has to mail it in because they're sick or by the way because they live in the White House and they have to vote on Florida, and they won't be in Florida and there's a reasoning for it, that's ok," POTUS said.
On G7 meeting potentially at the White House:
"It looks like G7 may be on because we've done well, we're ahead of schedule in terms of our country and some of the other countries are doing very well ... it looks like the G7 will be on, a full G7, and we'll be announcing something early next week."
In response to a follow up question, he said that the G7, if it comes together, will be held "probably at the White House but maybe a little combination at Camp David, but primarily at the White House."
On the rocket launch:
"I'm thinking about going, and that'll be next week, to the rocket launch. I hope you're all going to join me. I'd like to put you on the rocket, get rid of you for a while." 


 May 21, 2020 19:23

 In-town pool report #7 
Marine One was wheels down on the South Lawn at 7:16 p.m.
President Trump entered the residence at 7:19 p.m. He acknowledged reporters with a wave and a thumbs up, but he did not stop for questions. 


 May 21, 2020 19:25

 In-town pool report #8 - travel/photo lid 
A travel/photo lid was called at 7:23 p.m. 


 May 21, 2020 19:47

 In-town pool report #9 
Judd Deere passes along the following readout:
 READOUT OF THE PRESIDENT'S CALL WITH AMERICAN FAITH LEADERS
Today, President Donald J. Trump participated in a conference call with over a thousand pastors and faith leaders from across the Country to discuss the Administration's commitment to people of faith and response to the COVID-19 pandemic. The President acknowledged the challenges the pandemic has posed to churches and other religious groups in America and said their right to safely assemble is key to America's "transition to greatness." President Trump reiterated his strong commitment to get churches open. The President was thanked for his tireless successes at appointing conservative judges, defending the sanctity of life, and standing up for religious freedoms in and beyond the United States.
 The following individuals participated on the call:
 The White HousePresident Donald J. Trump Jennifer Korn, Deputy Assistant to the President and Deputy Director of the Office of Public Liaison
Trump Administration Secretary Mike Pompeo, Department of State Attorney General William Barr, Department of Justice (via pre-recorded video) Secretary Ben Carson, Department of Housing and Urban Development (via pre-recorded video) Acting Secretary Chad Wolf, Department of Homeland Security  Deputy Secretary Eric Hargan, Department of Health and Human Services
External Participants Bishop Harry Jackson, Senior Pastor, Hope Christian Church Tony Perkins, President, Family Research Council 1,600 pastors and faith leaders 



Pool Reports below by Eli Stokols, LA Times



Sent:
Reports:




 May 21, 2020 13:01

 Out of town pool report #1 — JBA 
Good afternoon. Marine One touched down at JBA at 12:53 p.m.
POTUS stepped off at 12:57 and walked across the tarmac. He did not stop to take questions and boarded Air Force One at 12:58 via the main stairs, stopping at the top for a wave and a fist pump directed at a member of the pool below.
Traveling with POTUS: Peter Navarro, who was here early and spotted lingering on the top step outside the main cabin door as pool came out to the tarmac just before noon; and following POTUS off Marine One were Jared Kushner, Mark Meadows, Dan Scavino, Johnny McEntee and Ronna McDaniel.
We will be rolling momentarily en route to Detroit Metropolitan Wayne County Airport.
Also noting that the full pool received Abbott swab tests for COVID-19 this morning at the White House and has also been temperature checked here at JBA. 


 May 21, 2020 14:22

 Out of town pool report #2 — DTW arrival 
AF1 was wheels up from Andrews at 1:06 p.m. and touched down at DTW at 1:58.
The flight was uneventful with no staff visits to the press cabin.
POTUS deplaned using the main stairs at 2:19 and was met on the tarmac by two greeters (listed below), who both wore face masks.
POTUS, who gave another thumbs up to the press before entering the presidential limo, is not wearing a mask.
Other travelers spotted deplaning AF1: Hope Hicks and Ben Carson.Motorcade will be rolling momentarily to the Ford Rawsonville Plant in Ypsilanti, which is about 20 minutes.
From the White House
The President is met by:
State Representative Lee ChatfieldSpeaker of the Michigan House of Representatives and State Representative from Michigan's 107th State House District
Supervisor Kurt Heise Supervisor of Plymouth Township, Michigan 


 May 21, 2020 14:47

 Out of town pool report #3 — Ford plant arrival 
Motorcade arrived at the Ford Rawsonville Plant in Ypsilanti at 2:44 p.m. after a 18-minute drive from DTW. POTUS did fire off a couple tweets during the drive, both complaining about Fox News.
There were the usual onlookers along the I-94 frontage roads and overpasses and larger crowds when we turned off, supporters (people draped in Trump 2020 flags, several "Auto Workers for Trump" signs) and protesters (signs spotted: "I heart Fauci," "It Takes a Big Man to Wear a Mask" and those of a more profane variety) standing on opposite sides of the street (thanks to co-pooler Meridith McGraw for the assist).
Pool entering plant now, holding on factory floor; we can hear music playing over from where lights and a stage are set up — sounds like the Stones and now Michael Jackson.
The first event here is a listening session with African-American leaders, which is open to the pool, followed by a brief factory tour and then remarks by POTUS, which will be live-streamed. 


 May 21, 2020 15:04

 Out of town pool report #4 — listening session / participants 
Pool (now in safety goggles) was brought into a draped off area on the edge of the factory floor for the "listening session with African-American leaders" at 2:59 p.m.
POTUS is seated steak the head of a long V-shaped table with participants seated on both sides, each several feet apart. Behind him is a navy backdrop with the words "Transition to Greatness" interspersed with the American flag and presidential seal.
He began by reading a statement about the flooding in Michigan — "perhaps there was a mistake made somewhere along the line" he said, deviating from the script, but says there's "nobody better" than the Army Corps of Engineers to fix it.
Moves on to discussions of the virus and it's imp t on communities of color. "It came from China," he said, "and we're not going to take it lightly."
Now running through statistics related to PPE going to the states. "We've made a lot of governors look very good," he said.
Now talking about the availability of testing, ventilators.
More TK...
>From the White House:
Today, President Donald J. Trump will participate in a listening session with African American leaders.
 The following individuals are expected to attend:
 The White HousePresident Donald J. Trump Jared Kushner, Assistant to the President and Senior AdvisorBrooke Rollins, Assistant to the President for Strategic Initiatives and Acting Director of the Domestic Policy CouncilJa'Ron Smith, Deputy Assistant to the President and Deputy Director of the Office of American InnovationNicole Frazier, Special Assistant to the President and Director of Strategic Partnerships and African American OutreachScott Turner, Executive Director of the White House Opportunity and Revitalization Council
Trump Administration Secretary Ben Carson, Department of Housing and Urban Development
Elected Official State Representative Karen Whitsett, State Representative from Michigan's 9th State House District
External Participants John James, President, James Group International Dr. Audrey Gregory, Chief Executive Officer, Detroit Medical Center Pastor Darrell Scott, Urban Revitalization Coalition Alphonso Wallace, Small Business Owner; Detroit, Michigan (x-apple-data-detectors://9/1) Robin Barnes, Latitude Luxury Real Estate 


 May 21, 2020 15:58

 Out of town pool report #5 — listening session 
No major news from this round table (more details below), which wrapped at 3:56 p.m. — factory tour about to start — but POTUS did take a few questions at the end, even after noting he was behind schedule that "the president of Ford" was waiting for him.
Please check all quotes against transcript—
Asked by John Roberts why not ease social distancing restrictions more rapidly given that hospitals are not being overrun, Trump said it's happening soon. "Our country's coming back...we did the right thing, but we now want to get going...
"I think you'll start with churches," he continued. He blasted Democrats for keeping things closed, saying they're "hurting their states" and suggested that voters would look at this as "a November question."
"Next year's going to be a big year," he said.
Some Democrats "should be further along." Predicting a strong economic rebound late in the year, he also said "we have a lot of ammunition left...in terms of the Fed."
Jeff Mason also asked Trump about his threat of withholding federal funding from Michigan over voting by mail. Trump said voting by mail is "wrought with abuse" and seemed to reserve the right to withhold federal funding.
"We don't want to have vote by mail," Trump continued. "Now, if you're president of the United States and you live in Florida and you're not able to be there, you should be able to send in a ballot."
Pressed to be more specific about his threat. Trump said "I'm not going to discuss" what specific funds he could cut off.
John Roberts then asked Trump if he had a message for China about shifting its stance toward Hong Kong. He said he'd comment more another time.
Meridith McGraw then asked if FEMA was ready to address the Michigan flooding. Trump again speculated on what happened with the dams that broke, noting that the dams were "old."
Pool then ushered out.
Here is more of a rundown of the conversation from the listening session, picking up from pool note 4...
POTUS also touted the record low unemployment rate in the African-American community before the pandemic hit. He also mentioned passing criminal justice reform — a thing "nobody else could have done," he said. He also spoke about "record funding" for HBCUs (as the Backstreet Boys‘ "I want it that way" played on the factory sound system) and jobs created by Opportunity Zones.
"We would have lost millions of lives. We did the right thing," he said, noting that CDC "will be issuing something today or tomorrow" to help churches figure out how to open up.
At 3:10, POTUS called on Ben Carson and then others to speak.
"We've learned about sanitizing everything...social distancing...wearing masks when we can't social distance — you'll notice at this table, we are social distancing," said Carson, who sat next to POTUS, neither in a mask.
Only two of the 10 people seated around the table are wearing masks, including GOP Senate candidate John James, who spoke next after an intro from Trump. He spoke about the disproportionate impact of COVID-19 on Michigan's black community and the importance of keeping manufacturing jobs in the US, praising Trump.
"Mr. President, you're moving jobs back from overseas," James told POTUS, who smiled.
"If you do come to Washington, you have my ear," Trump told James. He also said "no one knows" his opponent, Democratic Sen. Gary Peters.
Trump then called on JaRon Smith followed by State Rep. Karen Whitsett, a Democrat who he called a "highly respected" person — "I saw her story on television." Whitsett tested positive for coronavirus and later credited Trump for promoting hydroxychloroquine, which she said helped her recover from the virus.
Trump responded positively to one of her suggestions, that Detroit needs a HBCU, and asked James to work on it.
Then he called on Pastor Darrell Scott, who he credited with pushing him to re-open churches. Scott lavished Trump with praise as the most "pro-black president" he's ever seen and predicted, as The Beatles "Hey Jude" played off in the distance, that "history will treat you better than...the fake news."
"Can't be any worse," Trump said, chuckling.
Listening session wrapped a few moments later.
Seated beside the panelists along one wall: Mark Meadows and Kayleigh McEnany. 


 May 21, 2020 16:17

 Out of town pool report #6 — factory tour 
At 4:08 p.m. (with R.E.M.'s "Losing My Religion" cranked up), POTUS and several Ford executives emerged into a walled off area of the factory where the company's products — face shields, masks, respirators and ventilators are aligned in front of large posters with images of employees at work.
Ford officials are all wearing face masks. Trump Is not.
Their conversation at first took place a few feet away from the pool, but POTUS did grab a face shield and hold it up to his own face (photo below).
Then he stopped to take a question from a local reporter who asked about the ventilator supply and how much we need to add to our stockpile.
Trump spoke about sending ventilators to other countries. "Every state now has more than they need and our stockpile is totally full," he said.
Asked about not wearing a mask, Trump said he wore one in another area "where they preferred it." On why not wear it in front of the cameras: "I didn't want to give the press the pleasure of seeing it," Trump said.
Asked about the Ford executives wearing masks, he said it's "their choice."
Soundtrack currently: Tom Petty's "I won't back down"
More TK...
>From the White House:
Today, President Donald J. Trump will tour the Ford Motor Company Rawsonville Components Plant, one of the many repurposed American factories producing personal protective equipment and/or ventilators in response to the President's all-of-America approach to the COVID-19 pandemic. The public-private partnership developed by President Trump has produced 12 billion gloves, 130+ million N95 masks, half a billion surgical masks, nearly 18 million face shields, and made the United States "King of Ventilators."
The following individuals are expected to attend:
 The White HousePresident Donald J. Trump
External ParticipantsBill Ford, Executive Chairman, Ford Motor CompanyJim Hackett, President and Chief Executive Officer, Ford Motor CompanyJim Baumbick, Vice President, Enterprise Product Line Management, Ford Motor CompanyTom Westrick, Chief Quality Officer, GE Healthcare 


 May 21, 2020 16:35

 Out of town pool report #7 — more tour/Trump remarks 
As the short Q&A continued, Trump held out his navy blue face mask with the presidential seal For the pool to see but did not put it on his face (pic below).
Asked to confirm that the company okay'd Trump not wearing a mask, Ford CEO said "It's his choice."
As Ford executives spoke to the president, he continued to react to the press pool.
"We got to get back to the rallies," Trump said to the pool at one point. "I think it's going to be sooner rather than later."
Asked if he wants to do another economic stimulus bill, Trump suggested Congress might do "one more nice shot" but declined to offer specifics about what might be in it.
He predicted that states "sticking to a rigid pattern" of social distancing are going to soon ease guidelines. "We need to be open," he said. Asked about a second wave of coronavirus, Trump said it's possible but: "We're going to put out the fires."
He answered several questions while Ford executives stood over his shoulder waiting.
As he tried to move on, someone asked if he was considering replacing CDC Director Robert Redfield. "No!" Trump responded emphatically.
He then stepped back from the rope line where the pool is situated and engaged with Ford officials at a row of what look to be automated work stations.
Then he stood behind a glass enclosed ventilator and posed alone for the cameras. A large American flag was hung behind him.
Pool was just escorted out of the tour area at 4:31, moving into position for the remarks. There are a few dozen employees in the audience and an array of Ford automobiles behind the stage where POTUS will speak.
The remarks will be live-streamed at whitehouse.gov/live — I will send another note when Trump begins. 


 May 21, 2020 16:45

 Out of town pool report #8 — POTUS remarks underway 
The program began at 4:36 p.m. with plant manager Angela Weathers taking the stage. She then introduced CEO Bill Ford, who spoke about how this Rawsonville plant, which normally makes car batteries, has been producing masks and ventilators for the last six weeks "to save lives and protect our medical professionals and first responders."
Then he introduced POTUS, noting that they "haven't always agreed" on everything but that he always listens.
POTUS walked out at 4:43 to "God Bless the USA" (just a clip, not the entire song today).
Again, remarks available here: whitehouse.gov/live 


 May 21, 2020 17:14

 Out of town pool report #9 -- Trump remarks / back to vans 
POTUS took the stage at 4:44 p.m. and wrapped at 5:12. Pool is heading back to the vans for the motorcade back to DTW as The Stones play over the speaker system.
The remarks were carried live, but here are a few highlights:
After immediately noting he'd once been named "Man of the Year in Michigan," Trump thanked the plant workers and joked about appropriating the company's slogan -- "Built Trump Tough."
As the country approaches the grim milestone of 100,000 deaths from coronavirus, Trump also said "we hold in our heart the precious memory of everyone" we've lost, and "one person is too many."
The program, like past appearances at factories, included a few local workers who came on stage to speak about the work they've been doing.
Trump also remarked about Henry Ford, the company's founder, having "good bloodlines." And he called the company and its workers a "national treasure."
Trump also spoke on a number of of political topics only tangentially or not at all related to coronavirus: manufacturing, trade, his Buy American initiative, "America First" mantra and, while asking union members why they continue to support Democrats, he made an oblique reference to a certain Democrat "that doesn't even know where he is."
He again teased forthcoming CDC guidelines about opening up churches. "A country wasn't meant to be shutdown. We did the right thing, but now it's time to open it up," he said.
"To protect the health of our people, we must have a functioning economy."
He continued: "Americans who want to return to work should not be vilified. They should be supported." 


 May 21, 2020 17:18

 Out of town pool report #10 — rolling / Ford statement 
POTUS motorcade rolling from Ford Rawsonville Plant at 5:16 p.m. headed to DTW.
Your pooler also just received this statement from the Ford Motor Company:
"Bill Ford encouraged President Trump to wear a mask when he arrived. He wore a mask during a private viewing of three Ford GTs from over the years. The President later removed the mask for the remainder of the visit." 


 May 21, 2020 17:42

 Out of town pool report #11 — DTW departure 
Motorcade arrived back on the tarmac at DTW at 5:36 p.m.
POTUS spoke with Mark Meadows for a minute on the tarmac before boarding using the main stairs at 5:40.
We will be wheels up shortly for JBA. 


 May 21, 2020 18:56

 Out of town pool report #12 — JBA return 
AF1 was wheels up from DTW at 5:47 p.m. and wheels down at JBA at 6:51.
Uneventful flight with no visits to the press cabin.
Deplaning momentarily... 


 May 21, 2020 19:08

 Out of town pool report #13 — helo lifting 
POTUS stepped off AF1 at 7:00 p.m. and walked down the main stairs, saluting, waving to John Roberts and walking to Marine One, boarding at 7:02.
Meadows, Hicks, McEntee and Scavino were among those deplaning and boarding Marine One behind POTUS. Kushner, Carson, Navarro among those returning in staff vans.
Helo lifted at 7:07 and is headed back to the White House.
Handing off now to in-town pool. 



  