
    
INDIANAPOLIS - U.S. Sen. Bernie Sanders addressed supporters at an outdoor rally on a chilly spring Monday evening hours before polls were to open for Indiana's closely-watched presidential primary election.
A crowd of more than 7,800 ringed the brick-paved street half way around the capital city's landmark Monument Circle.
It was the third big rally of the day for Sanders. He spoke earlier Monday to more than 3,000 people each in Evansville and Fort Wayne as he crisscrossed the state in an election eve campaign blitz.
Here in Indianapolis, Sanders contrasted his record to Hillary Clinton's on how they finance their campaigns. He has relied on more than 7.4 million donations while she is bankrolled by big-dollar donors. He supports a tax on carbon and a nationwide ban on fracking to combat climate change. She doesn't. He called for a tax on Wall Street speculation to pay for his proposal to provide tuition-free public colleges and universities and to help those struggling with heavy student debt loads refinance their loans. She doesn't.

He also focused on the core economic issues and proposals to end a rigged economy propped up by a corrupt campaign finance system. "We are going to create an economy that works for all of us and not just the 1 percent," he said.
He called for more than doubling the minimum wage to $15 an hour. "In the United States of America if you work 40 hours a week you should not live in poverty. He said there should be pay equity for women workers who are paid just 79 cents on the dollar compared to men. He promised to rewrite trade policies that have encouraged corporations to send jobs to low-wage nations overseas. The most recent example of how trade policies have failed American workers is the decision of United Technologies the owner of Carrier to ship 2,100 jobs from Indiana to Monterey, Mexico, He denounced the greed of the Connecticut-based United Technologies for its plan to ship Indiana jobs to Mexico and throw Indiana workers out of their jobs.










In Evansville earlier in the day, Sanders spoke about the $25 million Clinton took in donations from Wall Street and other special interests.
He also renewed his call for Clinton to release transcripts of speeches she gave behind closed doors to Goldman Sachs and other corporations for lucrative fees totaling more than $2 million.
  