
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate six individuals, designate one individual and appoint two individuals to serve in his Administration.
The President intends to nominate Alan W. Eastham, Jr. of Arkansas, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of the Congo. Mr. Eastham, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, currently serves as Chief of Mission at the United States Embassy in Malawi. Prior to this, he served as Director of the Office of Central African Affairs at the Bureau of African Affairs at the Department of State. Earlier in his career, he served as Special Negotiator for Conflict Diamonds in the Bureau of Economic and Business Affairs. Mr. Eastham received his bachelor's degree from Hendrix College and his JD from Georgetown University.
The President intends to nominate the following individuals to be Members of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for Public Broadcasting:
Lori Gilbert, of Nevada, for the remainder of a six-year term expiring 01/31/12; Cheryl Feldman Halpern, of New Jersey, for the remainder of a six-year term expiring 01/31/14; David J. Pryor, of Arkansas, for the remainder of a six-year term expiring 01/31/14; Bruce M. Ramer, of California, for the remainder of a six-year term expiring 01/31/12; Liz Sembler, of Florida, for the remainder of a six-year term expiring 01/31/14.
The President intends to designate Clay Lowery, of Virginia, to be Acting United States Executive Director of the Inter-American Development Bank.
The President intends to appoint Don A. Christiansen, of Utah, to be a Member of the Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission (Submitted by the Central Utah Water Conservancy District), for a four-year term beginning 11/21/08.
The President intends to appoint Arnold Fields, of South Carolina, to be Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction. General Fields currently serves as Deputy Director of the Africa Center for Strategic Studies at the National Defense University. Prior to this, he served as Chief of Staff of the Iraq Reconstruction and Management Office of the United States Embassy in Baghdad. Earlier in his career, he served 34 years in the United States Marine Corps, retiring with the rank of Major General as Deputy Commander of Marine Forces Europe. Among his various assignments during his distinguished military career, include service as Inspector General for the United States Central Command. General Fields received his bachelor's degree from South Carolina State University and his master's degree from Pepperdine University.
  