
    As Prepared for Delivery—
Good afternoon. Thank you Sergeant Burleson for your honorable service in Afghanistan. Thank you Paul Abeyta, and to your family, for your extraordinary sacrifice. And thank you both for reminding us that our nation is truly blessed to be watched over by men and women such as your fellow soldier and son, Sergeant Christopher Abeyta.
My fellow Americans, today we come together—as one nation, one people—wherever the spirit of our fallen heroes lives on. In faraway fields, from Europe to Africa to Asia, where rows of white headstones honor Americans who rest where they fell. At rugged bases in Afghanistan, Iraq and beyond, where our forces carry on the mission of brothers and sisters who gave the last full measure of their devotion. And all across a grateful nation, where we pause in solemn tribute, among the memorials of Arlington and national cemeteries such as this.
It is fitting that we gather in the Land of Lincoln. Here in the heart of the Union he saved. Here on the day he helped set aside for those who give their lives in service to our nation. Here in the cemetery that bears his name. And I am deeply honored and proud to join your ceremony today. For here in a small town in Illinois we see the true essence of this day—Americans from every walk of life honoring those who died so that we might live free.
We are joined by elected officials. We thank Sean Baumgartner and the staff and volunteers of the Abraham Lincoln National Cemetery who host us today and sustain this hallowed place. This includes the Memorial Squad of veterans and their families, and the John Whiteside Ceremonial Color Guard, who ensure that every veteran laid to rest here is accorded the honors and respect they deserve.
We thank our extraordinary men and women in uniform who join us: Active, Guard and Reserve, including—for that wonderful fly-over—the 182nd Airlift Wing of the Illinois Air National Guard. We are joined by veterans who we honor for their service, including our friends from the American Legion in Joliet and Manhattan, and the VFW in Wilmington.
We welcome friends and families from across this great state, who by your presence here today have made this one of the largest Memorial Day ceremonies in our nation. Most of all, we welcome those of you who understand the meaning of this day more than any of us ever will—the families of our fallen, and today America honors your sacrifice as well.
These families know in their hearts what every American must never forget. On days such as this, we tend to reach for lofty words of freedom and democracy and liberty. We recite the names of battles waged. We recount the grand sweep of history—of wars fought and peace won.
But, at its core, the nobility and majesty of this day can be found in the story of ordinary Americans who became extraordinary for the most simple of reasons: they loved their country so deeply, so profoundly, that they were willing to give their very lives to keep it safe and free. And whether they made that sacrifice 200 years ago or two days ago, theirs is a common story that humbles all who hear it.
They were Americans by birth, born into the land of free, and Americans by choice, who came here seeking freedom's promise. They came of age in big cities and small towns and every beautiful corner of our country. They embodied the great diversity that is America's strength—every color and creed, every faith, every station—men and women.
In another time they might have led a life of comfort and ease. But a revolution needed to be won, a Union need to be preserved, our harbor was bombed and our country was attacked on clear September morning. So they answered their country's call. They stepped forward. They raised their hand. They took an oath. And they earned a title they would define them for the rest of their lives. Soldier. Sailor. Airman. Marine. Coast Guardsman.
And when the moment came, they packed their bags. They hugged their children tight. They kissed their loved ones one last time. And they waved goodbye.
In the letters they wrote home they spoke of the horrors of war and the bravery it summoned—how they endured the slaughter of the trenches and the chaos of beach landings, the bitter cold of a Korean winter and the endless heat of a Vietnam jungle. But if praised, they would reply with humility: I was just doing my duty.
Even now, from the peace and calm of a spring day in America's heartland, we can imagine what it must have been like, for all those they fought to save, when American forces came into view. A country was liberated. A Holocaust was over. A town was rid of insurgents. A village was finally free from the terror of violent extremists.
But ask anyone who served with them, ask these veterans here today, and they'll often tell you the same thing. Yes, we fought for freedom. Yes, we fought for that flag. But most of all, we fought for each other—to bring our buddies home; to keep our families safe.
And in their final moments on this earth, that was the love that filled their hearts—like that of Sergeant First Class Jared Monti, who gave his life in Afghanistan and to whose parents I was proud to present his Medal of Honor. On a distant mountain ridge, his final words were of faith and family: "I've made my peace with God. Tell my family that I love them."
This is what we honor today—the lives they led, the service they rendered, the sacrifice they made—for us. And in this time of war, we pay special tribute to 17 brave souls who have come to rest here. They are among the thousands of Americans who have given their lives during the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq and who have earned their place among the greatest of generations.
And though our hearts ache in their absence, we find comfort in knowing that their legacy shines bright in the people they loved—America's Gold Star families.
Their legacy lives on in the pride of their parents, like the mother who wrote to me about her son, Specialist Stephan Mace, who gave his life in Afghanistan. She told me, "I just wanted you to know what kind of hero he was." To all the moms and dads, you instilled in your sons and daughters the values and virtues that led them to service. To you, every American owes a debt of profound gratitude.
Their legacy lives on in the love of their spouses—the wives and husbands who gave to our nation the person they cherished most in the world. To all the spouses, you have sacrificed in ways most Americans cannot even begin to imagine, but as you summon the strength to carry on each day, know that you are not alone. America will always be at your side.
Their legacy lives on in their beautiful children. To all these sons and daughters, we say as one nation: your moms and dads gave their lives so you could live yours. America will be there for you as well, as you grow into the men and women your parents knew you could be.
Their legacy lives on in those who fought alongside them—our veterans who came home and our troops who are still in harm's way. You are the living memorials to your fallen friends. And just as you keep their memory alive, America must keep its commitments to you. That means providing the support our troops and families need, and the health care and benefits our veterans deserve. This is our sacred trust to all who serve, and upholding that trust is our moral obligation.
Finally, on this day of remembrance, I say to every American—the legacy of these fallen heroes lives on in each of you. For the security that lets us live in peace, the prosperity that allows us to pursue our dreams, the freedoms and liberties that we cherish—these are neither our entitlements as Americans nor accidents of history. They were earned by the blood and sacrifice of those who went before. And it falls to each of us to preserve this inheritance for all who follow.
They proclaimed our unalienable rights, so let us speak out for the dignity of every human being and rights that are universal. They saved the Union, so let us never stop working to perfect it. They defeated fascism and laid the foundation for decades of prosperity, so let us renew the sources of American strength and innovation at home. They forged alliances that won a long Cold War, so let us build the partnerships for a just and lasting peace.
And as we gather here today, they are fighting and dying once more, in faraway lands, to keep our homeland safe. So let us be worthy of their sacrifice. Let us go forward as they do—with the confidence and the resolve, the resilience and the unity that has always defined us as a people, shaped us as a nation and made America a beacon of hope to the world.
May God bless our fallen heroes and may He comfort their families. And may God bless the United States of America.
  