
    Mayor Rudy Giuliani continued to build his growing New York Leadership Team today with New York Republican State Committee Chairman Joseph Mondello announcing his support. Rudy Giuliani also received endorsements from over fifty Republican County Chairmen and County Executives.
"Mayor Giuliani is honored to have the endorsement of Chairman Mondello and a vast majority of the Republican chairs from his home state. These Republican leaders know first hand the Mayor's record of strong leadership and proven results," campaign manager Michael DuHaime said.
"The support for 'America's Mayor' continues to grow across the state and throughout the nation because of his world-renowned reputation for leadership, character and ability," said New York State Republican Chairman Joseph Mondello. "I am proud to represent the County Chairmen of New York State by endorsing Rudy Giuliani and announcing our commitment to work tirelessly to make him the next President of the United States of America."
Bill Powers, former New York State Republican Committee Chairman and co-chair of Rudy Giuliani's New York state campaign said, "As a former New York Republican State Committee Chairman, I know full well the value these endorsements add to the campaign. From the top of the ticket all the way to the bottom, the New York Republican Party today has assured itself a fighting chance in 2008."
"These individuals are a great addition to Team Rudy and are indicative of the strong support Mayor Giuliani is receiving across New York," concluded Guy Molinari, co-chair of Giuliani's New York state campaign. "I look forward to working closely with each one of these Republican leaders as we work to put our hometown candidate in the White House."
Chairman Mondello served for twenty-three years as Chairman of the Nassau County Republican Committee, and served as the Republican National Committeeman for the State of New York from 1992 to 2004. He was elected Chairman of the New York State Committee in November 2006.
Republican County Chairmen: Joseph "J" Savino, Bronx
Sharon M. Exley, Broome
Jerry Burrell, Cattaraugus
Cherl Heary, Cayuga
John Walker, Chautauqua
John Meier, Chemung
Thomas L. Morrone, Chenango
William Favreau, Clinton
Angelo Valentino, Columbia
Robert Howe, Cortland
Martin Donnelly, Delaware
Jim Domagalski, Erie
Ronald Jackson, Essex
James Ellis, Franklin
Dexter Risedorph, Fulton
Richard E. Siebert, Genesee
Brent Bogardus, Greene
William Farber, Hamilton
Marty Smith, Herkimer
Sandra Corey, Jefferson
Craig Eaton, Kings
Lowell Conrad, Livingston
Michael St. Leger, Madison
Lore Koppel, Montgomery
Joseph Mondello, Nassau
Jennifer Saul Yaffa, New York
Henry Wojtaszek, Niagara
Mark Scheidelman, Oneida
John DeSpirito, Onondaga
Jay Dutcher, Ontario
Bill DeProspo, Orange
Ed Morgan, Orleans
Charlotte Koniuto, Otsego
Anthony G. Scannapieco, Jr., Putnam
Philip Ragusa, Queens
Jack Casey, Rensselaer
John Friscia, Richmond
Vincent Reda, Rockland
John Nolan, Saratoga
Thomas Buchanan, Schenectady
Lewis Wilson, Schoharie
Philip Barnes, Schuyler
Angelo Bianchi, Seneca
William Hatch, Steuben
Harold Withers, Suffolk
John LiGreci, Sullivan
Don Leonard, Tioga
Elizabeth Cree, Tompkins
Peter Savago, Ulster
Michael Grasso, Warren
RoseMarie Panio, Westchester
Gordon Brown, Wyoming
Jack Clancy, Yates
County Executives:
Gregory J. Edwards, Chautauqua
Thomas J. Santulli, Chemung
Joel A. Giambra, Erie
Edward A. Diana, Orange
Kathleen M. Jimino, Rensselaer
James Molinaro, Richmond (Borough President)
C. Scott Vanderhoef, Rockland
  