
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

Tourism is vital to the United States. It contributes significantly to our economic prosperity. It creates jobs and helps out on our balance of payments. Most of all, it creates better understanding of this Nation's social and cultural realities, including our history.
People are central to the travel industry. It supports, directly or indirectly, almost 7 million jobs. Travel and tourism have grown substantially over the years. The industry now generates business receipts of approximately $260 billion annually. Payroll income alone is $60 billion, and tax revenue is $33 billion. Indeed, international tourism now ranks as this Nation's largest business "export" in the service industries.
This Nation is blessed with a magnificent and varied array of tourist attractions: our extraordinarily diversified landscape, and some of the world's most vibrant cities, cultural attractions, and natural wonders. Nowhere else but in America can you find such beautiful coastlines and beaches, majestic mountains, lush valleys, rugged woods, rolling plains, awesome canyons, scenic deserts, tropical islands, and Arctic snowscapes. No wonder the world wants to come and see where we live. Let us welcome them and treat them as honored guests.
In recognition of the many educational, economic, and recreational benefits of tourism to the people of this country, the Congress, by Public Law 99-98, has designated the week beginning May 18 through May 24, 1986, as "National Tourism Week" and authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this event.
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the week beginning May 18 through May 24, 1986, as National Tourism Week, and I call upon the people of the United States to observe such week with appropriate ceremonies and activities.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-first day of May, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-six, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and tenth.

RONALD REAGAN
  