
    The following list does not include promotions of members of the Uniformed Services, nominations to the Service Academies, or nominations of Foreign Service officers.
Submitted May 19
William P. Greene, Jr., of West Virginia, to be an Associate Judge of the United States Court of Veterans Appeals for the term of 15 years, vice Hart T. Mankin, deceased.
Submitted May 20
A. Peter Burleigh, of California, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be the Deputy Representative of the United States of America to the United Nations, with the rank and status of Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary, vice Edward William Gnehm, Jr.
James W. Pardew, Jr., of Virginia, for the rank of Ambassador during his tenure of service as U.S. Special Representative for Military Stabilization in the Balkans.
Submitted May 22
Kenneth S. Apfel, of Maryland, to be Commissioner of Social Security for the term expiring January 19, 2001 (new position).
Marc Grossman, of Virginia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Counselor, to be an Assistant Secretary of State, vice John Christian Kornblum.
John Christian Kornblum, of Michigan, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Career Minister, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Germany, vice Charles E. Redman.
Stanley O. Roth, of Virginia, to be an Assistant Secretary of State, vice Winston Lord.
David J. Scheffer, of Virginia, to be Ambassador at Large for War Crimes Issues.
Submitted May 23
James P. Rubin, of New York, to be an Assistant Secretary of State, vice Thomas E. Donilon.
Harold W. Furchtgott-Roth,
of the District of Columbia, to be a member of the Federal Communications Commission for a term of 5 years from July 1, 1995, vice Andrew Camp Barrett, resigned.
William E. Kennard, of California, to be a member of the Federal Communications Commission for a term of 5 years from July 1, 1996, vice James H. Quello, term expired.
Paul Simon, of Illinois, to be a member of the National Institute for Literacy Advisory Board for a term expiring September 22, 1998, vice Sharon Darling, term expired.
  