
    Well, thank you all for coming. It's my honor to welcome the first Texas team to the White House since I've been fortunate enough to be the President. It seems like it's becoming quite a habit.
Thank you very much, Nancy, for coming. It's my honor to welcome two Texas Congressmen, Ken Bentsen and John Culberson. We welcome you all here, as well. I understand that Val Ackerman is here, and I want to congratulate you for your vision, a true sports entrepreneur who has really put the effort and energy to make the WNBA the success it has been. America owes you a debt of gratitude; particularly, a dad of twins owes you a debt of gratitude—women twins.
I want to thank the coach for coming, as well. It turns out every single championship team that comes to the White House has got a lot of ingredients, but one is a coach that is really good at what he does. So Mr. Coach, congratulations on returning, and I suspect I'll see you here next year.
I love the idea of women's—of heralding women's athletics. And one of the great things about the Comets is that you've proven that you're some of the greatest athletes in the world, but also some of the greatest people in the world. I had the honor of living in the State of Texas when Sheryl was playing for Texas Tech. And I remember how proud we were—and I also remember—when you won the national championship. But I also remember watching you and Cynthia Cooper and other stars, when it comes to character, perform your acts of kindness in our communities around the State of Texas.
I think the WNBA also is—not only showcases athletic talent but it attracts a lot of young fans to see their stars perform. And so I want to thank our young fans who are here today.
I'm also mindful that those of us in positions of responsibility must uphold the responsibility with dignity and class. And this franchise has done that. I know your hard work in the Houston area when it comes to helping people who may have cancer. I know of your work in the neighborhoods around Houston by putting on clinics to teach young men and women what it means to have clean minds and clean bodies. And for that, I'm grateful. And for that, I welcome you to the White House and congratulate you on being true champs.
  