
    The following listing includes the President's daily schedule and other items of general interest as announced by the White House Press Office during the period covered by this issue. Events and announcements printed elsewhere in the issue are not included.
May 20
The President met at the White House with David L. Aaron, Deputy Assistant for National Security Affairs.
The President and Mrs. Carter and their daughter, Amy, greeted second grade students from the Abraham Lincoln School in Bangor, Maine, in the Rose Garden at the White House. The President had extended an invitation for their visit during his appearance before a Bangor town meeting held February 17.
May 21
During his visit to Plains, Ga., the President attended the wedding and reception of his niece Jana Kae Carter at the home of his brother, Billy.
May 22
The President returned to the White House following his trip to Georgia and Tennessee.
May 23
The President met at the White House with:
—Mr. Aaron;
—Senator Adlai E. Stevenson of Illinois and Representative Don Fuqua of Florida;
—Members of the Senate to discuss foreign policy;
—Adm. Stansfield Turner, Director of Central Intelligence, Hamilton Jordan, Assistant to the President and Mr. Aaron;
The President attended a fiscal year 1980 Federal budget issues meeting in the Cabinet Room at the White House.
May 24
The President met at the White House with:
—Mr. Aaron;
—Frank B. Moore, Assistant to the President for Congressional Liaison;
—Secretary of Housing and Urban Development Patricia Roberts Harris and Representative Cardiss Collins of Illinois.
The President attended a fiscal year 1980 Federal budget issues meeting in the Cabinet Room at the White House.
The President met in the Rose Garden with Senator Howard W. Cannon of Nevada and a group of Dutch citizens who, as resistance fighters during World War II, aided American airmen whose planes were downed over Holland. Also present were several of the former airmen.
The President has designated Representative Lucien N. Nedzi of Michigan as his representative at the Poznan International Technical Fair, to be held June 1120 in Poland.
May 25
The President met at the White House with:
—Mr. Aaron;
—members of the Cabinet, who were attending a briefing on the fiscal year 1980 Federal budget;
—Mr. Moore;
—Hess Dyas, Democratic candidate for Congress from Nebraska;
—a group of State Democratic Party chairmen.
While in Chicago, the President attended a reception at the Blackstone Hotel for Alex Seith, Democratic candidate for the U.S. Senate from Illinois.
May 26
The President returned to the White House following his trip to Illinois and West Virginia.
The President transmitted to the Congress the 1978 Employment and Training Report of the President, prepared by the Secretary of Labor, which is required by the Comprehensive Employment and Training Act.
  