
    May 15
In the afternoon, the President traveled from Palo Alto, CA, to Los Angeles, CA.
May 16
In the morning, the President traveled to San Diego, CA, and in the afternoon, he traveled to Las Vegas, NV.
May 17
In the morning, the President returned to Washington, DC.
The President declared a major disaster in Colorado and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms and flooding on April 29 and continuing.
May 18
The White House announced that the President will send a Presidential mission co-led by Labor Secretary Alexis Herman and Rev. Jesse Jackson, Special Envoy for the Promotion of Democracy in Africa, to attend the Fifth African/African-American Summit on May 17-21.
May 19
In the morning, the President traveled to New York, NY, and in the afternoon, he returned to Washington, DC.
In the evening, the President met with Representative Bill Archer in the Oval Office.
The President named Patrick A. Mulloy as a member of the Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe.
May 20
In the morning, the President traveled to Littleton, CO, where he met with the families of those killed in the Columbine High School shooting.
In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC.
The President announced his intention to nominate Lee Sachs to be Assistant Secretary of the Treasury for Financial Markets.
The President announced his intention to nominate Paul S. Miller to be Commissioner of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission.
The President announced his intention to nominate Amy Achor to be the youth member and Christopher Gallagher for a second term to be member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for National and Community Service.
The President announced his intention to nominate Anthony Musick to be Chief Financial Officer of the Corporation for National and Community Service.
The President announced his intention to appoint Garry Mauro, Jack Quinn, and Eli Segal as members of the Fannie Mae Board of Directors.
The President announced his intention to appoint James W. Evatt, John H. Mattingly, Dennis J. Picard, Michael T. Smith, and Lawrence A. Weinbach to the National Security Telecommunications Advisory Committee.
May 21
The President declared a major disaster in Iowa and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by storms, flooding, and tornadoes on May 16 and continuing.
  