
    Pool Reports by Matt Viser, The Washington Post 



Sent:
Reports:




May 6, 202311:29

In town pool report #1 / call time pushed to 4:45pm
Good morning from a sunny, spectacular Saturday.
The pool has just been told that the call time has been pushed back today from noon to 4:45pm.
Carry on with brunch, soccer, bike rides, or whatever else the morning and early afternoon holds.
See you in a few hours.



May 6, 202317:13

In town pool report #2 / gathered
Pool has assembled and loaded into vans on the South Lawn.
Should be rolling soon to a yet to be disclosed destination — although close observers of the POTUS schedule at this hour may have a guess.



May 6, 202317:33

In town pool report #3 / church
POTUS emerged from the Oval Office door at 5:14pm and walked to enter the Beast. He was with three others.
We were rolling at 5:16pm, and had a quick and uneventful motorcade ride before arriving about 8 minutes later at Holy Trinity Catholic Church in Georgetown.
POTUS got out of the car and we spotted him entering the church with the three others. We are working to identify all of them but one was Ted Kaufman, the longtime adviser and close friend of POTUS (and when POTUS was about to become VPOTUS in Jan 2009, Kaufman was appointed to the seat Biden held in the US senate)



May 6, 202318:46

In town pool report #4 / leaving church arrived back at WH and lid
POTUS emerged from church at 6:28pm, about an hour after he entered. It was him, Ted Kaufman, and two older men we (and wranglers) have been unable to identify.
Asked in a shouted question if he had any comment about the shooting in Texas (which appeared to be a reference to one that occurred this afternoon at an outlet mall in the Dallas area) he paused and then seemed to say he hadn't yet heard about it.
Asked if he had any comment about Jordan Neely, the man chocked to death in NYC subway, he paused briefly and then got into the car without responding.
Motorcade had a brisk and uneventful ride back, arriving at the WH at 6:39pm. POTUS and the others lingered outside for a minute or two before walking back inside.
A lid was then called.



May 6, 202320:47

In town pool report #5 / WH on Texas shooting
Pool was just sent from the WH, an update on the Texas shooting:
From a White House official: The President has been briefed on the shooting in Allen, Texas. The White House is closely monitoring the situation and is in touch with law enforcement and local officials to offer support.




  