
    The following list does not include promotions of members of the Uniformed Services, nominations to the Service Academies, or nominations of Foreign Service officer.
Submitted May 3
Brady Anderson, of Arkansas, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the United Republic of Tanzania.
Dorothy Myers Sampas, of Maryland, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Islamic Republic of Mauritania.
Nancy E. Gist, of Massachusetts, to be Director of the Bureau of Justice Assistance (new position).
Sally A. Shelton, of Texas, to be an Assistant Administrator of the Agency for International Development, vice Richard E. Bissell, resigned.
Lee Ann Elliott, of Virginia, to be a member of the Federal Election Commission for a term expiring April 30, 1999 (reappointment).
Danny Lee McDonald, of Oklahoma, to be a member of the Federal Election Commission for a term expiring April 30, 1999 (reappointment).
Submitted May 5
Nelba R. Chavez, of Arizona, to be Administrator of the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration, Department of Health and Human Services, vice Frederick K. Goodwin, resigned.
Eamon M. Kelly, of Louisiana, to be a member of the National Security Education Board for a term of 4 years, vice S. William Pattis.
H. Lee Sarokin, of New Jersey, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the Third Circuit (new position).
William F. Downes, of Wyoming, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of Wyoming (new position).
Lewis A. Kaplan, of New York, to be U.S. District Judge for the Southern District of New York, vice Gerard L. Goettel, retired.
Blanche M. Manning, of Illinois, to be U.S. District Judge for the Northern District of Illinois, vice Milton I. Shadur, retired.
Submitted May 6
Linda Marie Hooks, of Georgia, to be an Assistant Secretary of Veterans Affairs (Acquisition and Facilities), vice David E. Lewis, resigned.
  