
    Today, Romney for President released a new web video, "The Promise of America." It has almost been one year since Mitt Romney announced his campaign for president in Stratham, New Hampshire. Today, as he clinches the delegates needed for the Republican nomination, we look back on this journey to restore the promise of America.
To View "The Promise Of America" Please See: http://mi.tt/Kt0xUF
AD FACTS: Script For "The Promise Of America"
MITT ROMNEY: "[O]ver the last three and a half years, we have seen hopes and dreams diminished by false promises and weak leadership."

MITT ROMNEY: "But over the last three and a half years, we have seen hopes and dreams diminished by false promises and weak leadership." (Mitt Romney, "Remarks," Manchester, NH, 4/24/12)

MITT ROMNEY: "Americans are tired of being tired."

MITT ROMNEY: "Everywhere I go, Americans are tired of being tired, and many of those who are fortunate enough to have a job are working harder for less." (Mitt Romney, "Remarks," Manchester, NH, 4/24/12)

MITT ROMNEY: "[T]o all of the thousands of good and decent Americans I've met who want nothing more than a better chance, a fighting chance...Hold on a little longer. A better America begins tonight."

MITT ROMNEY: "[T]o all of the thousands of good and decent Americans I've met who want nothing more than a better chance, a fighting chance, to all of you, I have a simple message: Hold on a little longer. A better America begins tonight." (Mitt Romney, "Remarks," Manchester, NH, 4/24/12)

MITT ROMNEY: "We launched this campaign not far from here on a beautiful day in June on a farm in New Hampshire."

MITT ROMNEY: "We launched this campaign not far from here on a beautiful day in June on a farm in New Hampshire." (Mitt Romney, "Remarks," Manchester, NH, 4/24/12)

MITT ROMNEY: "[T]hough each of us will choose to walk a different path in life, we are united by one great, overwhelming passion: We love America. We believe in America."

MITT ROMNEY: "Though each of us is different, though each of us will choose to walk a different path in life, we are united by one great, overwhelming passion: We love America. We believe in America." (Mitt Romney, "Remarks," Stratham, NH, 6/2/11)

MITT ROMNEY: "It's been an extraordinary journey."

MITT ROMNEY: "It's been an extraordinary journey." (Mitt Romney, "Remarks," Manchester, NH, 4/24/12)

BRET BAIER, FOX NEWS: "Mitt Romney will win big tonight."

BRET BAIER, FOX NEWS: "Mitt Romney will win big tonight." (FOX News' "Nevada Caucus Coverage," 2/4/12)

MITT ROMNEY: "We have a moral responsibility to keep America the strongest nation on Earth, the hope of the Earth, the shining city on a hill."

MITT ROMNEY: "We have a moral responsibility to keep America the strongest nation on Earth, the hope of the Earth, the shining city on a hill." (Mitt Romney, "Remarks," Exeter, NH 11/3/11)

BAIER: "Mitt Romney will triumph..."

BAIER: "Mitt Romney will triumph..." (FOX News' "Florida Primary Coverage," 1/31/12)

WOLF BLITZER, CNN: "...a huge win..."

WOLF BLITZER, CNN: "...a huge win..." (CNN's "Illinois Primary Coverage," 3/20/12)

BAIER: "...a big win for Mitt Romney." (FOX News' "New Hampshire Primary Night Coverage," 1/10/12)

BAIER: "...a big win for Mitt Romney." (FOX News' "New Hampshire Primary Night Coverage," 1/10/12)

MITT ROMNEY: "This President puts his faith in government. We put our faith in the American people."

MITT ROMNEY: "This President puts his faith in government. We put our faith in the American people." (Mitt Romney, "Remarks," Manchester, NH, 1/10/12)

BAIER: "The former Massachusetts governor dominated across all demographic lines."

BAIER: "The former Massachusetts governor dominated across all demographic lines." (FOX News' "Nevada Caucus Coverage," 2/4/12)

MITT ROMNEY: "And when we gather back here in Tampa seven months from now for our convention, ours will be a united party with a winning ticket for America."

MITT ROMNEY: "And when we gather back here in Tampa seven months from now for our convention, ours will be a united party with a winning ticket for America." (Mitt Romney, "Remarks," Tampa, FL, 1/31/12)

MITT ROMNEY: "It is an America driven by freedom, where free people, pursuing happiness in their own unique ways, create free enterprises that employ more and more Americans."

MITT ROMNEY: "It is an America driven by freedom, where free people, pursuing happiness in their own unique ways, create free enterprises that employ more and more Americans." (Mitt Romney, "Remarks," Manchester, NH, 4/24/12)

MITT ROMNEY: "I see an America with a growing middle class, with rising standards of living. I see children even more successful than their parents...and others congratulating them for their achievement, not attacking them for it."

MITT ROMNEY: "I see an America with a growing middle class, with rising standards of living. I see children even more successful than their parents - some successful even beyond their wildest dreams – and others congratulating them for their achievement, not attacking them for it." (Mitt Romney, "Remarks," Manchester, NH, 4/24/12)

MITT ROMNEY: "[J]oin me in the next step toward that destination of November 6th, when across America we can give a sigh of relief and know that the promise of America has been kept. The dreamers can dream a little bigger, the help wanted signs can be dusted off, and we can start again. And this time we'll get it right."

MITT ROMNEY: "In the days ahead, join me in the next step toward that destination of November 6th, when across America we can give a sigh of relief and know that the promise of America has been kept. The dreamers can dream a little bigger, the help wanted signs can be dusted off, and we can start again. And this time we'll get it right." (Mitt Romney, "Remarks," Manchester, NH, 4/24/12)

MITT ROMNEY: "Our greatest days are ahead. We are, after all, Americans. God bless this great nation, God bless the United States of America, and God bless you good people. Thank you so much. Thank you."

MITT ROMNEY: "Our greatest days are ahead. We are, after all, Americans. God bless this great nation, God bless the United States of America, and God bless you good people. Thank you so much. Thank you." (Mitt Romney, "Remarks," Manchester, NH, 4/24/12)

  