
    Breitbart
By Breitbart News
May 20, 2015 - Sen. Rand Paul (R-KY), a 2016 Republican presidential candidate, has taken control of the U.S. Senate floor to filibuster the PATRIOT Act over concerns that reauthorizing the national security bill would allow the National Security Agency (NSA) to continue the unlawful bulk collection of Americans' personal records. Breitbart News will bring live updates as this process continues here.
UPDTE, 11:58 PM: "I want to thank the Senate staff; I want to thank the American people for considering the arguments," Paul said as he relinquished the floor after conducting an 11-hour filibuster.
UPDATE, 11:43 PM: Cruz joined fellow GOP presidential candidate Sen. Rand Paul (R-KY) during the tenth hour of Paul's filibuster against the PATRIOT Act and the bulk collection of metadata by the NSA.
Cruz defended the USA Freedom Act, saying it stops the bulk metadata collection by the NSA, but still keeps the right tools in place to stop terrorists.
Cruz addressed his Republican colleagues who would prefer to reauthorize the PATRIOT Act in its entirety.
"It is abundantly abundantly clear that a clean authorization of the PATRIOT Act ain't passing this body - and it certainly ain't passing the House of Representatives."
Cruz said Paul should be able to propose amendments to the USA Freedom Act, and the Senate should be able to have an open debate.
"Debate is what we are supposed to do on the merits," Cruz said.
UPDATE, 11:39 PM: "It is abundantly clear that a clean authorization of the Patriot Act ain't passing this body - and it certainly ain't passing the House of Representatives," said Cruz.
UPDATE, 11:33 PM: Cruz says the USA Freedom Act stops the bulk collection of metadata, but still provides the tools to help prevent and combat terrorist attacks.
UPDATE, 11:28 PM: Sen. Ted Cruz (R-TX)
joins the filibuster to thank Paul for his defense of liberty. Cruz states that he doesn't agree entirely with Paul on the issue.
UPDATE, 11:27 PM: According to CSPAN, 10 senators have come to the Senate floor during the filibuster, including seven Democrats.
UPDATE, 11:02 PM: Kelley Paul tweeted her support for her husband during his nine-hour filibuster against the PATRIOT Act.
Click here to continue reading the full article: http://www.breitbart.com/big-government/2015/05/20/live-updates-rand-paul-takes-control-of-senate-floor-to-filibuster-patriot-act/
  