
    "It is time to begin moving towards a merit-based immigration system—one that admits people who are skilled, who want to work, who will contribute to our society, and who will love and respect our country. -President Donald J. Trump
BORDER SECURITY AND MERIT-BASED REFORM: President Donald J. Trump is proposing a pro-American, pro-immigrant, and pro-worker approach to immigration by fully securing the border and moving our outdated legal immigration system to a competitive, merit-based system. 

President Trump's goals for a modern immigration system are to:

Fully Secure the border
Protect American wages
Attract and retain the best and brightest talent
Prioritize immediate families
Strengthen our workforce
Preserve our humanitarian values



SECURING THE BORDER FIRST: Full border security is the bedrock of a functioning immigration system and it must come first.

The crisis at our border is at a breaking point: Approximately one million aliens are projected to arrive at the border this year alone, and more than 100,000 aliens have arrived each of the past two months.


The President's proposal establishes a self-sustaining and renewable border security fund that will:


Fully secure the border

Ensure 100 percent inspection of people and good at ports of entry
Stop drugs, contraband, and counterfeit goods
Facilitate faster trade




The President proposal will safeguard our homeland by continuing to add to the 400-plus miles of border wall underway in strategic locations.

The proposal will also enable public donations for the wall.


The President's proposal will fully empower immigration officials to protect American communities, including by strengthening their ability to remove criminal aliens and alien gang members.
The President's proposal will restore integrity to our broken asylum system and close legal loopholes to address the driving forces behind the humanitarian crisis at our southern border.

The proposal will strengthen our asylum system and expedite the review process for immigrants seeking asylum.
The President's proposal will change the law to stop the flood of child smuggling and to rapidly reunite unaccompanied children with their families back home.


Structural changes to immigration agencies will improve coordination and enforcement to combat longstanding problems, such as visa overstays.
The President's proposal will ensure that all employees are legally authorized to work.

PRIORITIZING MERIT OVER CHANCE: The President's proposal will put our country's interests first by moving to a merit-based immigration system that protects American workers.

Around 70 percent of the immigrants who come to the United States today are admitted based on family relationships or through the visa lottery.

The most vulnerable Americans are the ones hurt the most by the current system, which undercuts wages and drains our social safety net programs.


The President's proposal creates the "Build America Visa," which will select immigrants based on a point system and features three high-skill categories:

Extraordinary talent
Professional and specialized vocations
Exceptional academic track records


The President's proposal prioritizes the immediate family—ensuring that mothers and fathers and children will be at the front of the line to obtain a green card.
Adopting the President's proposal will ensure prosperity and higher wages for all Americans—especially recent immigrants striving to achieve the American Dream.
President Trump's proposal will create a fair and transparent system that levels the playing field for all potential immigrants and allows for greater diversity.
The President's proposal will protect all workers from exploitation, fraud, and unlawful displacement.
The President's proposal promotes our common language and strengthens our national unity.

THE GLOBAL RACE FOR TALENT: The President's proposal will increase American competitiveness in attracting and retaining the best and brightest by moving the United States in line with the effective point systems used by other countries.




EMPLOYMENT & SKILL
FAMILY
HUMANITARIAN, DIVERSITY LOTTERY, & OTHER


United States
12%
66%
21%


 Canada
63%
24%
13%


New Zealand
57%
35%
8%


Australia
68%
30%
2%


 Japan
52%
31%
17%




President Trump's proposal will move America to a more competitive and fair position of 57 percent employment and skill, 33 percent family, and 10 percent humanitarian.

  