
    Following the release of state-by-state fact sheets highlighting the urgent need for the American Families Plan in states and territories across the country, Americans have been reading in local news stories about the impact the once-in-a-generation investments proposed by President Biden will have on them.
Local news across the country has been reporting on how they would benefit from free community college and universal pre-K, the high costs of child care in their state, the number of workers who lack access to paid family leave and the thousands of dollars families and workers would save in tax cuts and credits.
Individual fact sheets can be found HERE.
See below for a sampling of what people are reading across the country.
USA Today: Joe Biden looks to sell child care, education plan with state-specific pitches[Maureen Groppe, Courtney Subramanian, 5/6/21]
Only 11.2% of Idaho's 3- and 4-year olds are enrolled in publicly funded preschool, the lowest share in the nation.
The average cost of putting an infant in a child care center in California eats up an average 18% of household income.
And an expanded tax credit for children that President Joe Biden has included in a proposed package of education and safety net programs for families would reduce by more than half the child poverty in Alaska and Oklahoma while Arizona would see a 45% reduction.
Those are some of the statistics in state-specific fact sheets, provided first to USA TODAY, that the administration will use to pitch its trillion-dollar plan focused on child care and education both nationally and to governors, mayors, county leaders and local groups. The Biden administration is looking to shore up support across the country for its families plan, which is expected to face a steep climb in Congress as Republicans decry it as excess government spending.
The White House saw some success in a similar effort earlier this year, when it directly pitched Americans on the $1.9 trillion COVID-19 stimulus package before passing it without Republican support.
[...]
Louisville Courier Journal: Joe Biden's American Families Plan: Here's what Kentucky would get[Joe Sonka, 5/7/21]
President Joe Biden's proposed American Families Plan includes, among other things, universal preschool, free community college and $800 billion in targeted tax credits.
While the specifics of the plan have not yet been formalized into a bill, Biden unveiled a summary of the $1.8 trillion plan in his first address to a joint session of Congress last week.
The White House on Thursday released additional information on the plan's potential impact on Kentucky.
It outlines how many Kentucky students, parents and workers would be affected by the provisions of the plan.
[...]
https://twitter.com/reeseg_3/status/1390299180472541186?s=20

https://twitter.com/bradygibson/status/1390292758561165314

Spectrum News Texas: President Biden's $1.8T American Families Plan includes tax cuts for middle class Texans[D. Okoro, 5/6/21]
TEXAS — President Joe Biden's administration wants to make a $1.8 trillion down payment on the future of children, families and higher education, saying it would produce lasting benefits for the economy. Paying for it would be $1.5 trillion of tax hikes over the next decade on the wealthiest households.
Some of the initiatives that would impact Texans include two years of free community college, assistance with child care costs, and cutting taxes for middle class residents.
A Texas-specific fact sheet about the benefits of the American Families Plan is below.
KTSM El Paso: How Texas stands to gain from the American Families Plan[Erin Coulehan, 5/6/21]
EL PASO, Texas (KTSM) — Families across Texas are set to reap benefits through investments made as part of the American Families Plan.
The American Families Plan, announced on April 28, is an investment in the foundations of middle-class prosperity by way of education, health care and child care, according to the White House. The Biden Administration is hopeful that helping families cover basic expenses will yield economic returns by boosting productivity and economic growth.
[...]
11Alive Atlanta: VIDEO: How Biden's American Families Plan would affect education in Georgia[5/7/21]
The proposal would inject funds into all levels of education.
WTXL Tallahassee: EXPLAINER: What Biden's American Families Plan means for Florida[WTXL Digital Staff, 5/6/21]
TALLAHASSEE, Fla. (WTXL) — The White House released fact sheets on Thursday that highlight the need for and impact of the investments proposed by President Biden in the American Families Plan in states and territories across the country.
The Florida fact sheet includes information regarding free community college and universal pre-K, the high costs of child care, the number of workers who lack access to paid family leave, and the thousands of dollars families and workers would save in tax cuts and credits.
[...]
Miami Herald: White House says these Floridians would benefit from $1.8 trillion Families Plan[Alex Daugherty, 5/6/21]
The latest massive proposed expansion of the federal government from the Biden administration would see Florida's students and families receive billions in benefits ranging from universal community college to paid family and medical leave.
And the state's Democrats in Congress are largely supportive of the plan, which was officially unveiled in President Joe Biden's address to Congress last week. On Thursday, the Biden administration released a Florida-specific "fact sheet" detailing how many children and families would benefit from the estimated $1.8 trillion plan.
"The American Families Plan is an investment in Florida's children and families — because when American families do well, our nation thrives," the White House said in a statement.
[...]
FOX 25 Oklahoma City: How Biden's 'American Families Plan' impacts Oklahomans
OKLAHOMA CITY (KOKH) — President Biden unveiled his 'American Families Plan' which his administration says is a once-in-a-generation investment in middle-class prosperity.
They've broken down how this plan would impact each of the 50 states and American territories.
In general, they say the plan will help families cover basic expenses, lower health insurance premiums, and reduce child poverty.
The administration has broken down the ways the plan will help Oklahoma as seen below.
[...]
Rome, Ga. News-Tribune / Georgia Capitol Beat: Child tax credits, paid family leave for Georgians pitched in White House plan[Beau Evans, 5/6/21]
The Biden administration is pitching Georgia on a $1.8 trillion plan aimed at helping families cover child-care costs via tax credits, boosting federal funds for college education and creating a national program for paid family leave.
Called the American Families Plan, the family-focused package awaiting consideration in Congress leans on hiking taxes on wealthy Americans and corporations to fund higher child tax credits and earned-income tax credits for low-income families.
It contains dozens of proposals to extend lower health-insurance premiums to many Georgians, increase the minimum wage for child-care workers and kindergarten teachers, prop up funding for free school meals, cover two years of community college tuition and expand paid family leave.
The plan's tax proposals would help cut taxes or provide credits for an estimated 80% of Georgia families while hiking taxes for fewer than 1% of residents who make up the state's top earners, said Danny Kanso, a senior policy analyst with the nonprofit Georgia Budget and Policy Institute (GBPI).
[...]
ABC 4 Utah: Here's how Biden's American Families Plan would impact Utahns[Austin Facer, 5/6/2021]
The White House has released state-by-state fact sheets on the investments proposed by President Biden as part of his American Families Plan.
According to the overarching press release with links to the individual fact sheets, the plan is "a once-in-a-generation investment in the foundations of middle-class prosperity: education, health care, and child care."
Additional fact sheets on how the American Families Plan advances racial equality and supports rural America have also been released.
Here's a breakdown on how the plan could take action in Utah in eight key areas:
Higher Education
Noting that a two-year college degree in Utah costs $3,900 per year and just 51% of Utah students are able to finish postsecondary work within 6 years of enrolling, the American Families Plan would provide at least two years of community college to all students.
Universal Pre-school
In an effort to make pre-school more easily available to families, the plan would make those programs free for children 3 and 4 years old. In addition, employees in funded pre-school programs would be paid a $15 minimum wage and receive compensation and benefits comparable to kindergarten educators.
Investing in Teachers
According to the fact sheet, just 7% of Utah educators are teachers of color. The plan would invest $9 billion to address teacher shortages, improve teacher preparation, recruit, and develop more teachers of color, while also leveraging the knowledge of veteran teachers in the training and development of future educators.
[...]
Health Care
With the American Family Plan, President Biden plans to build on the Affordable Care Act by lowering prescription drug costs, reducing premiums, lowering the Medicare enrollment age, creating a public option, and closing the Medicaid coverage gap.
Tax Cuts for Utah's Families and Workers
In an effort to bolster the middle class and bring those from the lower class into the middle class, the American Family Plan would implement several steps. Child tax credits from the American Rescue Plan would increase to $3,000 per child 6 years and older, while those with kids under 6 would see their credits raised to $3,600 per child. Reimbursements for child care would also be increased in addition to tax credits for childless, low-wage workers.
[...]
Spectrum News 1: More federal spending could give California universal preschool[William D'Urso, 5/6/2021]
CALIFORNIA — President Joe Biden's busy early months have furnished a slew of bulky spending bills that have drawn the ire of Republicans, pleased some Democrats while the progressive wing purses its lips.
Among these ambitious spending packages is the $1.8 trillion American Families Plan, which, like Biden's other bills, spreads money over a diverse array of programs. For California, it could inject billions of dollars into several items on the education wish-list.
That includes universal preschool. The state already supports 4-year-olds of low-income families.
[...]
The American Families Plan would allow low-income families to spend no more than 7% of their income on child care. It's another benefit to families who have already received a child tax credit. Those, too, would be extended in the American Families Plan.
[...]
Another major piece includes health care. Successful passage of the bill would mean lowered health insurance premiums granted in the American Rescue Plan would become permanent. The administration projects that could help more than 400,000 state residents.
[...]
CBS 2 Iowa: Biden administration shares how American Families Plan will help Iowans[By David Amelotti, 5/6/2021]
The Biden Administration released a breakdown of the American Families Plan on Thursday that details how the proposed plan could help Iowans.
A new state-by-state breakdown released on Thursday gives Iowans a better look at how the plan would help the Hawkeye state, if passed.
In education for example, the plan calls for two free years of community college to all students, including dreamers.
Pell Grants would be increased by roughly $1,400.
It also calls for free, high quality pre-school for all three and four year olds in Iowa.
Child care employees look to make a $15 minimum wage plus benefits if the plan is passed.
The American Families Plan says it will invest $9 billion into teachers statewide.
[...]
Pahrump Valley Times (Pahrump, NV): Biden plan could mean 83K jobs in Silver State, researcher says[By Jonathan Ng, 5/6/2021]
More than 80,000 child care and prekindergarten jobs could be created in Nevada if President Joe Biden's $1.8 trillion American Families Plan comes to fruition, new research indicates.
Biden, during a Wednesday night address to a joint session of Congress, laid out the massive package that promises to provide new spending on child care, education and families over the next 10 years.
The American Families Plan, if passed and signed into law, would expand preschool and college opportunities, create a national family and medical leave program, distribute child care subsidies and make other similar investments.
Proponents of Biden's plan said that beyond improving the lives of children and families, the proposal will bring women back into the workforce while creating new jobs.
[...]
WFFF (Burlington): Sanders touts American Families Plan investments in child care, community health[By Devin Bates, 5/6/21]
VERMONT (WFFF) — Sen. Bernie Sanders visited Vermont community health centers and childcare facilities Wednesday to hear from staff members about the challenges they've faced during the past 14 months.
[...]
Child care has burdened families and providers across the country and in Vermont. At a national level, President Biden has proposed an American Families Plan that would provide a $425 billion investment in child care and pre-kindergarten services. As part of the American Rescue Plan, Vermont received over $33 million for its 11 community health centers. These facilities offer patients healthcare, dental care, and mental health treatment.
"The children are hurting, the parents are hurting, the economy has been hurting, so all the problems we previously had have been exacerbated," Sen. Sanders said.
On average, Vermont families spend $20,000 a year on childcare. Meanwhile, early childhood educators earn roughly half the salary of a public school kindergarten teacher. On Friday, the Vermont Legislature took a significant step toward addressing the child care crisis by passing H.171, a bill that includes $12.7 million in immediate investments.
[...]
During his stop at Community Health Rutland, Sanders met with staff and discussed the importance of Vermont's community health center system, which serves nearly one-third of all Vermonters.
"This state and this country face a real challenge," Sanders said. "We need more mental counselors, more psychologists, child psychiatrists. There's a lot more work that has to be done, but I think in Washington we're at least starting to recognize those problems, and hopefully, we'll be adequately funding them."
Columbus Dispatch: In Columbus visit, Biden HHS secretary touts goodies for Ohioans in American Families Plan[By Darrel Rowland, 5/6/21]
[...]
Becerra's visits to a child early learning center and the public housing facility are thought to be the first Ohio stops by a Biden cabinet member.
But his trek to the Buckeye State wasn't solely about publicizing aid for Ohioans in a measure already passed. It also was used as an opportunity to tout the benefits of another major Biden spending initiative, the $1.8 trillion American Families Plan.
The measure would be paid for by taxing the well-off. The top individual tax rate would rise from 37% to 39.6%, and the capital gains tax rate from 20% to 39.6% for taxpayers making over $1 million.
Among the benefits for Ohio, according to the White House:

Paying for universal pre-K in a state where only 21% now attend.
Funding child care for 253,709 children under 5 in Ohio.
Providing health insurance for 190,000 uninsured Ohioans
Giving child tax credits to lift 128,000 children out of poverty in Ohio, slashing child poverty in the state by 45%.
Covering at least two years of community college to all students in the state, which current sees only 62% earning a postsecondary degree. The proposal also would increase the maximum Pell Grant by about $1,400; currently, 202,731 students in Ohio use them.
Expanding access to free school meals to an additional 172,000 Ohio students and providing 845,000 students with resources to buy food over the summer

[...]
"President Biden said we're going to make a once-in-a lifetime investment again, in our kids. And shame on us if we don't take up the president's challenge."
Maryland Matters: White House on Biden Families Plan: 'An Investment in Maryland's Children'[By Josh Kurtz, 5/6/21]
As the Biden administration peddles its American Families Plan — which it describes as "a once-in-a-generation investment in the foundations of middle-class prosperity" — the White House on Thursday released a fact sheet touting the proposal's potential benefits to Maryland.
The plan, a combination of government spending and tax credits totaling $1.8 trillion over a decade, includes investments for education, health care and child care.
President Biden's proposal, which he announced during his first address to Congress last week, includes establishing free community college, universal preschool and paid family leave, among other priorities. It also calls for a four-year extension of a new $3,000 child tax credit.
"It will help families cover the basic expenses that so many struggle with now, lower health insurance premiums, and continue...historic reductions in child poverty," the White House said in a statement Thursday. "It will yield significant economic returns — boosting productivity and economic growth, supporting a larger, more productive, and healthier workforce on a sustained basis, and generating savings to states and the federal government."
The plan has won widespread praise from Democrats in the state's congressional delegation.
"This is exactly the type of commitment — and vision — our country needs," Sen. Benjamin L. Cardin (D-Md.) said in a statement.
If enacted, in Maryland the plan would help defray the expense of a two-year associate degree, which costs about $4,800 a year in the state. Just 58% of students in Maryland are able to complete a postsecondary degree of any kind within six years of enrolling, the Biden administration said, and high costs are a contributing factor. The Biden plan would also also increase the maximum Pell Grant awards by approximately $1,400 to support the 102,000 students in Maryland who rely on Pell to help pay for higher education.
The White House said the American Families Plan would provide access to free pre-school to all 3- and 4-year-olds in Maryland; currently, 50,400, or 34%, of the 148,000 3- and 4-year-olds in Maryland are enrolled in publicly-funded pre-school. The proposal would also ensure that all employees in funded pre-school programs are paid a $15 hourly minimum wage and provided compensation and benefits comparable to kindergarten educators with similar qualifications.
Biden's plan would also make investments to address teacher shortages; Maryland has seen an 11% decline in "new teacher supply" in recent years, the administration said. While students of color make up 62% of the public school population in Maryland, 75% of teachers in the state are white, and the proposal would seek to boost opportunities for non-white educators.
The American Families Plan also seeks to address child care shortages; the White House estimates that the average annual cost of a child care center for a toddler in Maryland is $12,300, meaning a two-parent household would on average need to spend 10% of their income to afford care for one child every year. The Biden proposal would enable low and middle-income families to pay no more than 7% of their income on child care and would guarantee child care workers a minimum wage of $15 an hour. In Maryland, the average pay for child care workers is currently $11.60 an hour.
The Biden administration reports that 12% of children in Maryland live in food insecure households and 34% are obese. The American Families Plan would attempt to ensure that the nutritional needs of Maryland's children are met by expanding access to free school meals to an additional 67,000 students and providing 431,000 students with resources to purchase food over the summer.
The Biden administration also seeks to expand health care coverage throughout the country, which would provide coverage to an estimated 34,000 uninsured Marylanders and provide savings on premiums to 53,300 state residents.
The administration also proposes to extend tax cuts and tax credits to millions of middle- and lower-income families in the U.S., including to the families of 147,000 Maryland children who are classified as poor. And the Biden plan also calls for the creation of paid family medical and sick leave.
Not having such a policy, said Cardin, who is chairman of the Senate Small Business and Entrepreneurship Committee, "has placed our country in striking contrast with the rest of the developed world."
To pay for the plan, Biden has proposed reinvesting in the IRS to help the agency run more efficiently, close loopholes and prosecute tax cheaters. And he aims to tax the wealthiest Americans more.
"The president's plans will build more prosperity and opportunity for all Americans — and are paid for through common-sense measures," said Sen. Chris Van Hollen (D-Md.).
  