
    Pool Reports by Haisten Willis, Washington Examiner 



Sent:
Reports:




May 11, 202210:07

In-town pool report #1: departure
Good morning, I'll be your in-town print pooler today, which means you should only be hearing from me for the president's departure this morning and arrival late this evening.
After exiting the White House in his usual blue suit, the president entered Marine One at 10:05 a.m. He did not respond to shouted questions about inflation.
Thanks!



May 11, 202221:43

In-Town pool report #2: arrival and plans for tomorrow morning
The president returned to the White House lawn from his long day at 9:39 and entered the building at 9:42. He did not take questions.
It has been a pleasure serving as your bookend pooler today.




 
Pool Reports below by Michael A. Wilner, McClatchy 



Sent:
Reports:




May 11, 202210:23 EDT

Out-of-town pool report #1 — JBA
Good morning from Joint Base Andrews. POTUS travels to Illinois today, first visiting a family farm in Kankakee to speak on food prices before heading into Chicago, where he'll address a convention of the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers and attend a Democratic National Committee fundraiser.
Marine One touched down at 10:18 am ET. POTUS emerged at 10:22 am ET and boarded a minute later. He did not take questions.
We're wheels up shortly to Chicago's O'Hare International Airport. Deputy Principal Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre will gaggle aboard Air Force One on the way. You can listen in on whitehouse.gov.
Flight time is 1 hour and 55 minutes.



May 11, 202210:27 EDT

Out-of-town pool report #2 — JBA
From the White House, greeting POTUS on arrival at JBA:
Col Carlos Alford, Commander, 89th Airlift Wing
Traveling with the President to Illinois today:Secretary Tom Vilsack, U.S. Department of AgricultureBruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of StaffMarc Gustafson, Senior Director for the White House Situation RoomAnnie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office OperationsKarine Jean-Pierre, Deputy Assistant to the President & Principal Deputy Press SecretaryStephen Goepfert, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the PresidentCarlyn Reichel, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for Speechwriting & Strategic Initiatives, NSCTravis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip DirectorMeghan Hays, Special Assistant to the President & Director of Message PlanningKelliann Blazek, Special Assistant to the President & Agriculture & Rural PolicyAshley Jones, Special Assistant to the President & House Legislative Affairs Liaison



May 11, 202211:23 CDT

Out-of-town pool report #3 — O'Hare arrival and departure
Air Force One touched down at Chicago O'Hare at 11:08 am CDT. It's just shy of 90 degrees.
Jean-Pierre gaggled with your pool at the end of the flight through landing. She condemned the killing of an Al Jazeera journalist in Jenin, calling for an investigation, and addressed new numbers on inflation, the upcoming Senate vote on abortion rights, the ASEAN summit and the war in Ukraine. The audio was live-streamed.
POTUS deplaned AF1 at 11:18 am CDT and shook hands with greeters. He boarded Marine One at 11:22 am CDT for Kankakee Regional Airport. Your pool is heading there via Osprey, flight time 40 minutes.



May 11, 202212:09 CDT

Out-of-town pool report #4 — Kankakee
Marine One landed in Kankakee at 12:04 pm CDT. Greeting POTUS on arrival at the Illinois Army National Guard Aviation Support Facility at Greater Kankakee Airport: Congresswoman Robin Kelly (IL-02).
POTUS entered the motorcade at 12:09 pm CDT. We're rolling to the farm.



May 11, 202212:26 CDT

Out-of-town pool report #5 — Kankakee farm arrival
POTUS' motorcade drove through one group of protesters close to the airport with Trump signs and flags. After a short drive, we arrived at at the O'Connor family farm at 12:22 pm. At the house next door, seemingly oblivious to the president's arrival, kids played water sports to cool down from the heat.
POTUS will tour the farm before giving remarks.



May 11, 202212:32 CDT

Out-of-town pool report #6 — Kankakee farm
POTUS is now meeting with the farmers. The White House sends along some background:
Joining the President for a tour of the O'Connor Farm:
Secretary Tom Vilsack, U.S. Department of AgricultureCongresswoman Robin Kelly (IL-02)Jeff O'Connor, owner of O'Connor FarmsGina O'Connor, owner of O'Connor Farms
O'Connor Farms background:In Kankakee, the President will visit O'Connor Farms with Jeff and Gina O'Connor, the farm's owners. The O'Connors will describe how they use double-cropping of wheat and soybeans on their farm. The President will highlight his Administrations' efforts to address the global food supply chain impacts of Putin's war in Ukraine by helping U.S. farmers produce more crops to feed the world.
O' Connor Farms is a family farm in Kankakee, Illinois. The O'Connor farm is 800 acres and grows wheat, corn, and soybeans. They are currently growing wheat that will be harvested in July, and then will double-crop with soybeans on those same acres. They are also in the process of planting corn on their other acres.
Tour Stop 1:Jeff and Gina O'Connor will provide an overview of their farm and highlight how they double-crop wheat and soybeans in their field.
Tour Stop 2:Jeff and Gina O'Connor will highlight how having infrastructure on their farm like the grain bins and grain dryer make it easier for them to double-crop. Jeff will also note that this is the infrastructure that is being destroyed on farms in Ukraine leading to spoiled grain.



May 11, 202213:00 CDT

Out-of-town pool report #7 — Kankakee farm tour
POTUS, now with his jacket off, exited a charming house on the property to greet a gathered crowd and take some photos. The house is right on the edge of the farm, and your pool kept cool under the shade of the farm's silos.
At 12:40 pm CDT, POTUS walked over with Sec. Vilsack and the family owners to a tractor with a White House sign reading "Lowering Costs for American Families" in the passenger seat.
This farm specializes in corn, wheat and soy bean production, and the family talked to Biden about the challenges and benefits of double cropping.
POTUS pointed out that Ukraine is the largest producer of wheat in the world. "Can't get it out," POTUS said. They briefly discussed the effects of the war there on global food security.
At 12:50 pm CDT they walked over to another tractor with a similar sign, overlooking the farm fields and discussing the year's crop yield.
O'Connor continued discussing Ukraine, noting that the infrastructure of Ukraine's agriculture industry will take years to recover whenever the war ends.
"They're not able to put it into the ground now," POTUS added.
Pool is now being moved to the speech location.



May 11, 202213:07 CDT

Out-of-town pool report #8 — Kankakee speech begins
POTUS entered the speech facility with O'Connor at 1:06 pm CDT. A moderate size crowd is in attendance for the remarks, which are being streamed live at whitehouse.gov.



May 11, 202213:31 CDT

Out-of-town pool report #9 — Kankakee speech concludes
POTUS concluded his remarks at 1:30 pm CDT after praising American farmers as "the breadbasket of democracy" at a time of food insecurity due to Russia's war on Ukraine.
We're moving.



May 11, 2022
[APP Note: Report #10 does not exist or was not received by the APP.]


May 11, 202214:10 CDT

Out-of-town pool report #11 — Departing Kankakee
POTUS' motorcade departed the O'Connor farm at 1:42 pm CDT and arrived at the local airport at 1:53 pm CDT. POTUS boarded Marine One at 2:09 pm CDT, and your pool is now loaded on to an Osprey. We're headed for Chicago.
Your pooler also apologizes that the last report was labeled No. 9; it was actually No. 10.



May 11, 202214:52 CDT

Out-of-town pool report #12 — Chicago arrival
Marine One touched down at Soldier Field at 2:44 pm CDT. POTUS was greeted by Illinois Governor J. B. Pritzker. We're in the motorcade en route to McCormick Place for POTUS' remarks to the IBEW National Convention. Rolling at 2:51 pm CDT.



May 11, 202214:59 CDT

Out-of-town pool report #13 — IBEW Convention arrival
POTUS' motorcade pulled in to McCormick Place at 2:55 pm CDT. Pool is getting into position at the venue.



May 11, 202216:10 CDT

Out-of-town pool report #14 — IBEW speech begins
POTUS took the stage at IBEW at 4:09 pm CDT after a video introduction featuring clips from the president's past speeches on labor. You can watch his remarks live at https://www.whitehouse.gov/live/.
From the White House:
In attendance for the President's remarks at the 40th International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers (IBEW) International Convention are approximately 3,500 union members and leaders from across the United States and Canada.
Run of show:Lonnie Stephenson, International President, International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers (IBEW)The President



May 11, 202216:51 CDT

Out-of-town pool report #15 —
POTUS wrapped up his remarks at 4:49 pm CDT. We're moving towards the motorcade.



May 11, 202217:04 CDT

Out-of-town pool report #16 — Fundraiser arrival
POTUS' motorcade arrived at the Marriott Marquis Chicago for the Democratic National Committee fundraiser at 5:03 pm CDT.
Your pooler will send an initial note paraphrasing what is said at the event and highlighting any news before sending fuller, exact quotes once transcribed later on.



May 11, 202217:59 CDT

Out-of-town pool report #17 — Fundraiser
Your pool was ushered in at 5:30 pm CDT. DNC Chair Jaime Harrison introduced Gov. Pritzker, who in turn introduced the president.
About 40 people are attending the fundraiser, being held in a standard hotel conference room at the Marriott.
Pritzker focused on abortion rights and the urgency of the moment, and repeated the president's new line warning against an "ultra-MAGA" movement returning to power.
He introduced POTUS at 5:39 pm CDT.
POTUS thanked those in the audience that were a part of his 2020 presidential campaign and said his victory was a "low bar" because of who his opponent was.
He repeated that the world is in a battle between democracies and autocracies, focusing on China's rise and the cleverness of its leadership.
"There's a lot at stake," Biden said. "A whole lot at stake."
He asked the audience what Americans would think if they witnessed on TV a mob of British citizens raiding their parliament. "The rest of the world looks to us. They expect us to lead. We are the indispensable nation," he said.
He twice referred to Republicans as "petty," "mean-spirited" and "extreme," and named his former opponent: They are "cowered by Trump," he said.
When someone's phone went off, he joked it was Trump calling.
"The fact of the matter is, they run the show — the MAGA Republicans," POTUS said. "It really is beyond the pale."
"We've got to take the fight to them. We've got to make our case," POTUS added.
He said that six senators he used to serve with have told him that they were afraid of losing their seat if they voted their conscience.
He said that the party had to focus on its role in reasserting American leadership in the world, protecting civil rights and rebuilding the nation's infrastructure.
On Ukraine, he said that military analysts around the world were "surprised at how incompetent" Russia's military has been.
"We tended to think they're ten feet tall," POTUS said.
And POTUS said the leaked Supreme Court draft decision "basically says there is no such thing as a right to privacy."
"It's not only the brutality of taking away a woman's right to control her own body, and all the damage it does," POTUS said.
"Mark my words: they are going to after the Supreme Court decision on same-sex marriage," POTUS said. He said they would do the same on Griswold v. Connecticut.
More to come.



May 11, 202218:11 CDT

Out-of-town pool report #18 —
POTUS continued that the Republican Party has a "radical agenda" and isn't "your father's Republican Party."
"What's going to happen to a gay child in school?" he asked.
"It's one thing to take on Disney World," he continued. "They're going to storm Cinderella's caste before this is over."
He said that the Supreme Court's ruling on abortion, if held, could generate enthusiasm on the Democratic side in November, due to all of the consequences of the decision.
"I think we can pick up three Senate seats" and increase the Democratic majority in the House, he said.
If they lose power in either, though, "we've got a different world we're in," he added.
Wrapping up his remarks, he focused on threats to voting rights.
"Hate never goes away. It just hides. It hides under the rugs," he said.
But he said that maintaining the party's majority in both houses would be "hard."
"Inflation is going to scare the hell out of everybody," POTUS said.
Pool is moving at 6:09 pm CDT.



May 11, 202218:17 CDT

Out-of-town pool report #19 — Resending fundraiser pool report
Your pooler is resending the text of Pool Report No. 17 because the text for some reason appears illegible in the original email.
In the meantime, motorcade is loaded. We are rolling at 6:15 pm CDT.
###
Your pool was ushered in at 5:30 pm CDT. DNC Chair Jaime Harrison introduced Gov. Pritzker, who in turn introduced the president.
About 40 people are attending the fundraiser, being held in a standard hotel conference room at the Marriott.
Pritzker focused on abortion rights and the urgency of the moment, and repeated the president's new line warning against an "ultra-MAGA" movement returning to power.
He introduced POTUS at 5:39 pm CDT.
POTUS thanked those in the audience that were a part of his 2020 presidential campaign and said his victory was a "low bar" because of who his opponent was.
He repeated that the world is in a battle between democracies and autocracies, focusing on China's rise and the cleverness of its leadership.
"There's a lot at stake," Biden said. "A whole lot at stake."
He asked the audience what Americans would think if they witnessed on TV a mob of British citizens raiding their parliament. "The rest of the world looks to us. They expect us to lead. We are the indispensable nation," he said.
He twice referred to Republicans as "petty," "mean-spirited" and "extreme," and named his former opponent: They are "cowered by Trump," he said.
When someone's phone went off, he joked it was Trump calling.
"The fact of the matter is, they run the show — the MAGA Republicans," POTUS said. "It really is beyond the pale."
"We've got to take the fight to them. We've got to make our case," POTUS added.
He said that six senators he used to serve with have told him that they were afraid of losing their seat if they voted their conscience.
He said that the party had to focus on its role in reasserting American leadership in the world, protecting civil rights and rebuilding the nation's infrastructure.
On Ukraine, he said that military analysts around the world were "surprised at how incompetent" Russia's military has been.
"We tended to think they're ten feet tall," POTUS said.
And POTUS said the leaked Supreme Court draft decision "basically says there is no such thing as a right to privacy."
"It's not only the brutality of taking away a woman's right to control her own body, and all the damage it does," POTUS said.
"Mark my words: they are going to after the Supreme Court decision on same-sex marriage," POTUS said. He said they would do the same on Griswold v. Connecticut.
More to come.



May 11, 202218:21 CDT

Out-of-town pool report #20 — Chicago departure
POTUS' motorcade arrived at Soldier Field at 6:18 pm CDT. We're loading on to Ospreys headed for O'Hare imminently. Your pool will not see POTUS board Marine One.



May 11, 202218:40 CDY

Out-of-town pool report #21 — O'Hare departure to JBA
Marine One touched down at O'Hare at 6:34 pm CDT. POTUS boarded Air Force One at 6:39 pm CDT without taking questions.
We're heading to Joint Base Andrews. Flight time is 1 hour 30 minutes.



May 11, 202221:27 EDT

Out-of-town pool report #22 — JBA arrival and handover
Air Force One touched down at Joint Base Andrews at 9:18 pm ET after an uneventful flight.
POTUS disembarked at 9:25 pm ET and boarded Marine One at 9:26 pm ET, heading back to the White House.
Handing over to the in-town pooler. Good night.




  