
    Mr. President, Madam Giscard d'Estaing, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen:
We are deeply honored to have the opportunity to have you and your party with us for this evening. Mrs. Ford and I consider ourselves extremely fortunate to have this opportunity to extend our hospitality to all of your officially, as well as personally.
Mr. President, your visit to the United States to share with us the 200th anniversary of our Declaration of Independence and your presence in this historic house tonight are vivid reminders of the long-standing and outstanding friendship of our two nations and of France's aid to the United States for which we are all deeply indebted.
A very glorious chapter in human history, the narrative of French assistance to the winning of American independence, has been taught in American schools for two centuries. Every American schoolchild learns of General Rochambeau, General Lafayette, and Admiral de Grasse at Yorktown. This is part of our great teaching heritage in America, and for very good reason.
As millions of visitors to Washington will discover this year, this city contains many, many monuments to brave sons of France who helped us in periods of dire emergency, beginning with the statue to General Rochambeau in Lafayette Park, just across from the front entrance of the White House. It's a historic place in our National Capital.
Tonight we pay special tribute to Admiral d'Estaing, who brought the first French fleet to our assistance in the Revolutionary War. Count d'Estaing's arrival on July 13, 1778, was stunning news to our opposition at that time and was a great blessing to the hard-pressed Continentals.
Unfortunately, General Washington never met Admiral d'Estaing. And I count it a special privilege as the 38th President and I can welcome one of his descendants to this house and personally express our long-overdue thanks for the distinguished contribution that was made by one of your predecessors in our struggle for our independence.
In his honor, we have displayed in this room tonight a bust of the admiral, which has long resided at the White House. And I am certain that all of you will agree that it is a distinct pleasure to have the admiral with us on this occasion, as well as one of his family.
Mr. President, we welcome you tonight both to express our gratitude for the assistance of France 200 years ago and in recognition of the continuing, important role which France and the United States must play as allies in the world today.
France and America will remain united by common devotion to the rights of man, by a shared concern for the welfare of all peoples, and peace for all nations. The course of history has drawn France and the United States closer and closer together in time of war, but we have also stood together in time of peace, facing the challenges of recession, of inflation, and the energy crisis. These challenges are no less a threat to the peoples of both of our countries and the world as a whole than the wars of the past.
Mr. President, by working together we can triumph over these challenges. And we are on the way to economic recovery both in your country and ours and in the industrial societies of this world. Much, much progress has been made through cooperation, through consultation among the industrial democracies. And we owe you a very special debt of gratitude for your leadership in the past months.
Mr. President, our dialog which began in Martinique some 18 months ago, continued at Brussels, Helsinki, Rambouillet, and now in Washington, is of great importance to your people as well as to ours. The continuing dialog has generated a spirit of mutual and very deep confidence fundamental to our relationship as friends as well as allies.
As in 1776, Mr. President, America welcomes the partnership of France and deeply values her friendship, her wisdom, her strength, and France's long-standing tradition of leadership. Together, we face wonderful opportunities for the future.
Two centuries ago, during the Revolutionary War, General Washington had a special dinner guest, the French general, philosopher, and author, Chastellux. Writing of that dinner, he remarked favorably upon the calm and the agreeable conversation, but he disapproved of the 10-course menu.
He observed, however, that the frequent toasts were a sort of refrain, punctuating the conversation as a reminder that each individual is a part of the company.
To all of our guests, French as well as American, I welcome you as part of our company, gathered this evening in tribute to France and in the honor of her President.
Let us toast to the health of the President of the French Republic and the friendship of France and the United States. To the President.
  