
    Lillian R. BeVier, of Virginia, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Legal Services Corporation for a term expiring July 13, 2004, vice Hulett Hall Askew, term expired, to which position she was appointed during the last recess of the Senate.
Naomi Churchill Earp, of Virginia, to be a Member of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission for a term expiring July 1, 2005, vice Reginald Earl Jones, term expired, to which position she was appointed during the last recess of the Senate.
Peter Eide, of Maryland, to be General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority for a term of five years, vice Joseph Swerdzewski, resigned, to which position he was appointed during the last recess of the Senate.
April H. Foley, of New York, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Export-Import Bank of the United States for a term expiring January 20, 2007, vice Dan Herman Renberg, term expired, to which position she was appointed during the last recess of the Senate.
Thomas A. Fuentes, of California, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Legal Services Corporation for a term expiring July 13, 2005, vice Thomas F. Smegal, Jr., term expired, to which position he was appointed during the last recess of the Senate.
R. Bruce Matthews, of New Mexico, to be a Member of the Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board for a term expiring October 18, 2005, vice Joseph DiNunno, resigned, to which position he was appointed during the last recess of the Senate.
Neil McPhie, of Virginia, to be a Member of the Merit Systems Protection Board for the term of seven years expiring March 1, 2009, vice Beth Susan Slavet, term expired, to which position he was appointed during the last recess of the Senate.
James C. Miller, III, of Virginia, to be a Governor of the United States Postal Service for the term expiring December 8, 2010, vice Einar V. Dyhrkopp, term expired, to which position he was appointed during the last recess of the Senate.
Greta N. Morris, of California, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of the Marshall Islands.
Nicole R. Nason, of Virginia, to be an Assistant Secretary of Transportation, vice Sean B. O'Hollaren, resigned.
more
(OVER)
2
William A. Schambra, of Virginia, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for National and Community Service for a term expiring September 14, 2006, vice Carol W. Kinsley, term expired, to which position he was appointed during the last recess of the Senate.
Stanley C. Suboleski, of Virginia, to be a Member of the Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission for a term of six years expiring August 30, 2006, vice Marc Lincoln Marks, term expired, to which position he was appointed during the last recess of the Senate.
Donna N. Williams, of Texas, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for National and Community Service for a term expiring October 6, 2006, vice Robert B. Rogers, term expired, to which position she was appointed during the last recess of the Senate.
  