
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate twelve individuals to serve in his administration:
The President intends to nominate Carin M. Barth, of Texas, to be the Chief Financial Officer of the Department of Housing and Urban Development. Ms. Barth currently serves as President of LB Capital, Inc., a private financial organization in Houston, Texas. In addition, she currently serves on the Board of Directors for Southwest Bank of Texas. Ms. Barth earned her bachelor's degree from the University of Alabama and her master's degree from Vanderbilt University.
The President intends to nominate John H. Hager, of Virginia, to be Assistant Secretary for Special Education and Rehabilitative Services at the Department of Education. Mr. Hager recently served as Assistant to the Governor for Homeland Security in Virginia. He previously served as Lieutenant Governor of the Commonwealth of Virginia. Mr. Hager earned his bachelor's degree from Purdue University and his master's degree from Harvard University.
The President intends to nominate Veronica Vargas Stidvent, of Texas, to be Assistant Secretary of Labor (Policy). Ms. Stidvent currently serves as Special Assistant to the President for Policy in the Chief of Staff's Office at the White House. Previously, she served as Special Assistant to the Administrator in the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs in the White House's Office of Management and Budget. Earlier in her career, Ms. Stidvent was an associate with Vinson & Elkins, L.L.P. in Austin, Texas. Prior to this position, she served as a law clerk for the Honorable Sidney Fitzwater, U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Texas. Ms. Stidvent earned her bachelor's degree from the University of Texas at Austin and her J.D. from Yale University.
The President intends to nominate the following individuals to be Members of the National Council on the Humanities:
Craig Haffner, of California, for a six-year term expiring January 26, 2010
Richard Quinones, of California, for a six-year term expiring January 26, 2010
Iris Love, of Vermont, for a six-year term expiring January 12, 2010
Thomas Mallon, of Connecticut, for a six-year term expiring January 26, 2010
Thomas K. Lindsay, of Texas, for a six-year term expiring January 12, 2010
Tamar Jacoby, of New Jersey, for a six-year term expiring January 12, 2010
Harvey Klehr, of Georgia, for a six-year term expiring January 12, 2010
James Davison Hunter, of Virginia, for a six-year term January 12, 2010
Herman Julius Belz, of Maryland, for a six-year term expiring January 12, 2010
  