
    Dear Mari:
It is with deep regret that I accept your resignation as Deputy Assistant to the President and Director of the Office of Public Liaison, effective July 1, 1987.
I have been fortunate to have had someone of your abilities and dedication on my team for most of the past six years. From your days as a campaign worker and a press aide to Nancy, to your tenure as a speechwriter, Assistant Secretary of Transportation for Public Affairs, and your present position, you have been an invaluable help to me in implementing the goals of this Administration with skill and efficiency: Your role as Director of Public Liaison has, I know, been an especially demanding one, requiring long hours, sensitivity to the demands of a multiplicity of groups, and organizational skills. You, as usual, rose to the occasion with enthusiasm, energy, and grace under pressure. Moreover, demanding as public service may be at times, the sense of accomplishment for serving our country in a public capacity is without parallel. You have my heartfelt gratitude for a job well done.
A lot of us are going to miss you here in the White House, but I know that your new position will be an exciting and challenging one.
Nancy and I send you our best wishes for every future success and happiness. God bless you.
Sincerely,
RONALD REAGAN
Dear Mr. President:
Once again, I ask for your understanding as I submit my resignation. It has been both an honor and an incomparable opportunity to serve you and the country as your Director of Public Liaison. As a granddaughter of immigrants, I share your love for America and the values and freedom that make it so great. It has been exciting to be a part of your team as you revived the confidence of our people and restored our natural strength.
As first a Reagan campaign worker, then speechwriter, then Assistant Secretary of Transportation and now as one of your Deputy Assistants, I have learned and grown and I hope contributed. Thank you for trusting me with such responsibility so early in my career.
Coordinating your outreach efforts hasn't been difficult because of the wellspring of love and support for you among the American people. Ensuring their views are heard as you consider policy has been rewarding because you embody the traditional values and beliefs of our citizens. Working to advance your agenda for a resurgent America has been a labor of joy.
I now would like to join U.S. Senator Bob Dole's Presidential campaign. There, I believe, I can be most effective in making certain the victories won so hard in your administration are continued and broadened in the next. Thank you for allowing me to share in the "Reagan magic." I will always be deeply grateful.
Sincerely,
MARI MASENG
  