
    Mr. Chancellor, Mr. Vice President, and all of our very distinguished guests from the Federal Republic and from the United States:
We hope that you agree with what the Chancellor just said that he always hopes that the Army will be used for playing violins.
In my brief remarks presenting our very distinguished guests to this company, all of whom respect him and most of whom have met him, I have told him that they want to hear from him and not from me, and so, therefore, I will be quite personal and, I hope, perhaps to the point.
I was thinking how much we have in common. I was thinking, for example, that my wife's mother was born in Germany. I was thinking, for example, her father is Irish. I remember that another German Chancellor, Chancellor Adenauer, once a rival of our present guest, said to me that the most beautiful combination of woman was Irish and German, and I agree.
I was thinking, too, of how much my wife and my very lovely dinner partner, Madam von Staden--who is the wife of the German Ambassador we have just received today and his credentials--how much they have in common. They attended the same school, of course a few years apart--she in 1937, my wife, and Madam von Staden in 1950--but the same man was president of the University of Southern California, Rufus von Kleinstaid, and when I think of him and of them, I think of what we owe to those of German background who have given so much to America.
I think, too, of how much the Chancellor and I have in common. We were remarking that we were born in the same year. But then they looked at him, how young he was, and I said, "Mr. Chancellor, what month were you born in?" I was born in January and he was born in December, so he is much younger than I am.
I was thinking, too, that our political careers have been somewhat the same. As a matter of fact, on my first visit to the Federal Republic as President, there was a small dinner when a member of the other party was then Chancellor, and the present Chancellor was present, and in a rather jocular mood, looking across at the then leader of the opposition, I said, "Well, Mr. Brandt, don't give up. You know, you can come back. I am the expert on coming back." [Laughter]
So here we are, Chancellor of the Federal Republic, President of the United States, and each of us in office until 1976. And I think of all that can happen in those 3 1/2 years. I think how much depends upon the German-American alliance and on the dedication of the leaders of these two countries to the same goals-the goals of strength, of maintaining the strength of this great alliance that has brought us to where we are now, where we can now discuss the possibilities of mutual balanced force reductions. I think, too, of the fact that there have been occasions in the past when our two nations-and no blame is attached in this respect to either side--were not friends. And I think that together, as we are together and will always be in the future, we can do everything.
That is what the German alliance means and that is what this visit means, because as the Chancellor and I, in our long discussions today, which will continue tomorrow, agreed, we have domestic problems that we will wrestle with, problems of inflation and the economy and others, but his goal and mine, above everything else, is to build a world in which our children, our children's children, can grow up in peace.
And the key to that peaceful world, if there is a key, more than anyplace else in the world, is for the strong, resilient, able people that he represents, and the strong, able, dedicated people that I am proud to represent for us to work together.
I can assure you--this company and all the American people tonight--that the Chancellor of the Federal Republic and the President of the United States have as their goal for the year 1976, doing everything that we can to build a new structure of peace, not just in Europe, not just in the Atlantic community, but in the Mideast, all over the world. And these two great peoples--the German people, the American people--we can, we will do it together.
Ladies and gentlemen, it is in that spirit that I know that all of you proudly will raise your glasses to the Chancellor, Willy Brandt.
To Willy Brandt, Chancellor Brandt.
  