
    Internet Provider Executives Laud Collaboration with Biden-Harris Administration to Cut Costs and Expand High-Speed Internet Access
As part of President Biden and Vice President Harris's announcement that they are reducing the cost of high-speed internet for tens of millions of families, the Biden-Harris Administration secured commitments from 20 internet providers to lower prices for 48 million households across the country enrolled in the Affordable Connectivity Program. President Biden and Vice President Harris worked with Democrats, Republicans, and Independents to establish the Affordable Connectivity Program in the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law. Access to reliable, affordable, and high-speed internet is a necessity to learn, work, and participate in a 21st century economy, and the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law will help lower costs and expand access to get all Americans connected.
Below is what internet provider executives are saying: 
Leigh Fox, President, CEO of altafiber and Hawaiian Telcom: "Access to high-speed Internet is essential for individuals and families to take advantage of educational, healthcare, and employment opportunities. We are excited to be part of this important program that will create more digital equity in the communities we serve."Based in Cincinnati, Ohio and serves parts of OH, KY, IN, HI
John Stankey, CEO, AT&T: "It's time for every American to experience the social, economic, health, employment and educational benefits of universal scaled access to the Internet. As part of AT&T's commitment to narrowing the digital divide, we are offering affordable high-speed internet to more Americans and the Affordable Connectivity Program (ACP) helps make that possible. Our Access from AT&T plan, when combined with federal ACP benefits, provides up to 100 Mbps of free internet service for eligible households. Internet for all requires the partnership of business and government, and we are pleased to be working with the Administration, Congress and FCC to ensure everyone has accessible, affordable and sustainable broadband service."Serves parts of AL, AR, CA, FL, GA, IL, IN, KS, KY, LA, MI, MS, MO, NV, NC, OH, OK, SC, TN, TX, WI.
Chet Kanojia, Co-Founder and CEO, Starry: "We're proud to do our part and support the Administration's efforts to connect every American household to reliable, affordable, high-speed broadband. Every family deserves and needs access to broadband. The Affordable Connectivity Program is one of many tools we can leverage to help income vulnerable families get the connectivity they need to thrive."Based in New York City and serves Boston, New York, Los Angeles, Denver and Washington D.C.
Teresa Elder, CEO, WOW! Internet, TV and Phone Serves: "The pandemic has exacerbated the barriers that exist for people who have limited or no access to reliable, high-speed internet, which is a necessity in today's remote learning and working environment. We are pleased to partner with the White House to lower costs and provide for a more equitable playing field so more American families will have access to broadband and the tools they need to help them fulfill their potential."Serves parts of AL, FL, GA, IL, IN, MI, SC, and TN
James Gleason, President & CEO, Vexus Fiber: "Vexus is proud to offer a 100% fiber broadband option for lower income households in our service areas in Texas and Louisiana. High quality broadband service is essential in all homes regardless of income to support learning, work and overall connectivity. We at Vexus applaud the ACP program and its goal to ensure all American homes have affordable access to broadband service."Based in Lubbock, TX and serves parts of AL and TX. 
MLGC: "For the past 116 years, MLGC has provided affordable connectivity to our valued customers. During this challenging time, it is only fitting we continue to do what we can to make broadband access more affordable to more people. We are proud to work with the administration in making this commitment."Based in Enderlin, ND and serves parts of ND. 
Bryant Barnes, President and CEO, Comporium: "The past two years have demonstrated quite clearly what we always knew – the availability of high-quality broadband at home is a necessity of modern life. Comporium is proud to partner with the White House through the Affordable Connectivity Program to bring free broadband service to those who cannot otherwise afford it. This program will allow member of qualifying households to do schoolwork, meet with doctors virtually, apply for jobs and work from home if necessary – all activities many of us have come to take for granted."Based in Rock Hill, SC and serves three parts of upstate SC. 
Ben Lovins, SVP, Telecommunications Division, Jackson Energy Authority: "The Affordable Connectivity Program's investment in broadband is helping households across the country including our community in Jackson, TN to connect to this modern-day necessity. This initiative allows Jackson Energy Authority to assist local families in getting the fiber optic Internet connections they need for work, home, school, healthcare, and more."Serves Jackson, TN. 
Rocco B. Commisso, Founder, Chariman, and CEO, Mediacom: "Over the past 27 years, Mediacom has invested over $13 billion to ensure the residents and businesses in the 1,500 smaller cities and towns we serve have access to the tools and technology needed to keep pace with America's largest metropolitan markets. We are proud to leverage these private investments in partnership with the FCC's Affordable Connectivity Program and encourage broadband adoption by making 100 Mbps download speeds available for $30 per month to qualifying households across our national footprint."Serves parts of GA, IA, MS, KS, FL, MN, and parts of 22 states total. 
Frank van der Post, President, Breezeline: "We believe that communities benefit when they have easy access to superfast broadband internet for work-from-home, learning, telemedicine and more. That is why we are committed to initiatives that will extend the reach of affordable broadband to underserved communities through rural broadband initiatives, as well as participation in ACP and its predecessor programs, including the Emergency Broadband Benefit."Serves parts of CT, DE, FL, ME, MD, NH, NY, SC, VA, WV.
IdeaTek Co-Founder and Chief Innovation Officer Daniel Friesen: "Being connected is essential. Our mission for internet freedom means we believe everyone should have access to fast, reliable internet and the opportunities it provides - even when the budget is tight. ACP is an important step to help drive broadband adoption across Kansas," he added. "This partnership demonstrates our shared commitment to ensure all Kansas households have internet connectivity."Based in Buhler, KS and serves rural KS.
Brad Moline, President and CEO, ALLO Communications: "At ALLO, our mission is to build and support gigabit societies. Through ubiquitous fiber networks, we compete to serve all households, businesses, and governmental entities across our communities. With support from the Affordable Connectivity Program, we will ensure all qualifying households with financial needs receive symmetrical 100 Mbps internet service for an exceptional experience learning, working, and connecting from home." Brad Moline, President and CEO, ALL Communications."Based in Lincoln, N and serves 28 cities across NE, CO, and AZ.
Nick Jeffery, CEO, Frontier: "Frontier is pleased to partner with the Biden Administration and the FCC to connect more Americans than ever before with high-speed broadband services as part of the Affordable Connectivity Program. As we Build Gigabit America, we're committed to delivering fiber-to-the-premises gigabit services to 10 million locations by the end of 2025. This government program will allow us to connect more families and communities with critical connectivity for free or at a reduced cost."Based in Norwalk, CT and serves parts of 28 states. 
David N. Watson, Chief Executive Officer and President, Comcast Cable: "The Affordable Connectivity Program is a historic opportunity to close the digital divide by empowering more Americans to get online and connect to our increasingly digital world. Comcast is committed to making ACP available to all our eligible Internet customers and our new, more powerful Internet Essentials Plus offering is free to all who qualify. We have been working on digital equity issues for over a decade and believe this new program offers even more support to achieve those goals. We are proud to work together with our government and community partners to close the digital divide."Serves parts of AL, AR, AZ, CA, CO, CT, DC, DE, FL, GA, ID, IL, IN, KS, KY, LA, MA, MD, ME, MI, MN, MO, MS, NC, NH, NJ, NM, NY, OH, OR, PA, RI, SC, TN, TX, UT, VA, VT, WA, WI, WV.
  