
    THE PRESIDENT of the United States of America Richard M. Nixon and the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany Willy Brandt confirmed at their meetings in Washington on May i and e the relationship of trust and confidence between the United States and the Federal Republic of Germany, and discussed the future relationship between the United States and Western Europe, questions of Alliance and Defense Policy, current and long-term problems of West-East relations and other international questions. Secretary of State William P. Rogers and Foreign Minister Walter Scheel held complementary talks and shared in part of the discussions between the President and the Chancellor. Federal Minister Egon Bahr discussed particular questions relating to Berlin.
There was full agreement that the relations between the United States and Western Europe will be governed in the future as in the past by adherence to their common ideals of democratic freedom, human rights and social justice.
The President and the Chancellor are convinced that the peace and prosperity of their nations depend on the preservation and consolidation of Atlantic solidarity.
The Chancellor welcomed the assurance given by President Nixon that the United States will continue to support European unification and affirmed the readiness of the Federal Republic of Germany, together with the other members of the European Community and its institutions, to participate in an open and comprehensive discussion concerning the nature of a balanced partnership between the uniting Western Europe and the United States. It was noted by the President and the Chancellor that these discussions must deal with common problems as well as common opportunities, and should also consider arrangements in which Japan and Canada could share. In this context the constructive dialogue with the United States envisaged by the Conference of Heads of State and Government of the European Community last October will be particularly useful. The Chancellor welcomed President Nixon's intention to intensify this dialogue by his visit to Western Europe later this year, including the President's plan to meet with NATO and the European Community.
The Chancellor recalled the decisions taken at the Conference of Heads of State and Government in Paris.
He expressed the conviction that the nine States which aim at a comprehensive transformation of their relations into a European Union by 1980, will, acting in common, make a joint contribution in the international field in line with Western Europe's determination to follow an outward-looking policy, toward social progress, peace and cooperation. Europe's enlarged responsibility in international politics will be evident in its loyalty to traditional friendships and alliances.
The President and the Federal Chancellor were in agreement that the new round of negotiations in GATT [General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade], which originated in the common initiative of the United States, the European Community and Japan, will have a decisive importance for the future liberalization and development of international trade, for the improvement of world living standards, and for the maintenance of peace. The President and the Chancellor consider the successful course of these negotiations to be a political task of great significance in the solution of which their governments will constructively participate. They agreed on the importance that all participants enter the GATT negotiations, which they expect to start in the fall, with a liberal negotiating concept.
There was agreement that the multilateral negotiations on the reform of world-wide monetary and trade relations must constitute another contribution to a new phase of productive cooperation between the United States and the European Community in the spirit of a comprehensive Atlantic partnership among equals.
The President and the Chancellor noted that good cooperation in the monetary field during the last months facilitated the solution of the recent monetary crisis. The initiative and determination shown in this connection by the governments concerned have strengthened the prospects of a comprehensive reform.
The President and the Chancellor underlined the identity of interests in security and detente in Europe and emphasized in this context the continued need of a balanced military power relationship between West and East. The unity and solidarity of the Alliance, an adequate presence of US forces in Europe, and a credible deterrent are indispensable for this purpose. Both sides agreed that the negotiations on a mutual and balanced reduction of forces and on the limitation of strategic armaments must meet these requirements. The President and the Chancellor shared the conviction that while seeking to reduce the military confrontation in Europe, the capacity of the Alliance to assure the security of all of its partners at any time must be preserved without qualification.
The President and the Chancellor, in discussing the broad nature of the Atlantic partnership during the coming period, agreed that the relationship must develop in a way to ensure that each partner contributes appropriately toward the burden of the common defense. Intensified cooperation among the European Alliance partners in the defense field will be of substantial assistance.
The results produced so far by the policy of detente pursued by the United States and the countries of Western Europe on the one hand and the Soviet Union and the countries of Eastern Europe on the other encourage the governments of the United States and the Federal Republic of Germany to continue along the road of negotiations and to respond positively to a constructive policy on the part of the East. This applies above all to the preparations for a Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe. The two governments share the hope that such a conference will soon come about, that it will produce tangible humanitarian improvements, promote mutual cooperation and communication and thus help gradually to overcome the division of Europe. The President and the Chancellor expressed their satisfaction at the intensive Atlantic cooperation during the preparations which should be continued in close consultation within the Alliance.
They also reviewed the implementation of the Berlin Agreement of 1971 and noted the practical improvements it has brought to the life of the city and its inhabitants. They agreed that respect of the letter and spirit of the Berlin Agreement by all parties concerned is essential for a continuing relaxation of tension in Europe.
It was considered that expanded international air traffic to the Western Sectors of Berlin would constitute further progress.
The President and the Chancellor, in discussing events in Southeast Asia, emphasized that it is now imperative for the Paris Agreement to be fully and scrupulously implemented. Until this is the case the contributions which the United States and the Federal Republic of Germany desire to make to the humanitarian relief and reconstruction of all the states of Indochina cannot become fully effective.
The President and the Chancellor underlined the interest of their governments in peace and stability in the Middle East. They expressed their conviction that steps to initiate negotiations between the parties most directly concerned, based on the November 1967 Security Council Resolution, are essential to help bring about progress towards a stable peace in the area.
  