
    Pool Reports by Todd J. Gillman, The Dallas Morning News 



Sent:
Reports:




May 5, 202208:58

Pool report #1/briefing moved to 3 pm
Good morning.
Flagging that today's briefing has been moved to 3 pm, an hour later than listed on last night's guidance.
Keep in mind as you compose those multipart questions that gather time for the Cinco de Mayo event in the Rose Garden is still at 4 pm.
Pre-set will be at 2 for that, and unilateral cameras will be allowed.



May 5, 202212:06

Pool report #2/Scholz call
President Biden held a secure call with German Chancellor Scholz this morning from 10:57 AM – 11:27 AM EDT.



May 5, 202215:12

pool report #3/ briefing delayed to 4:45
The Press Briefing with Press Secretary Jen Psaki will begin right after the Cinco de Mayo reception, at ~4:45 PM.
Lunch lid until 3:45 PM.



May 5, 202216:07

pool report #4/Cinco de Mayo in the Rose Garden
Pool has moved to the Rose Garden for an open-press event marking Cinco de Mayo (the fifth of May), which commemorates Mexico's May 5, 1862, victory over France at the Battle of Puebla during the Franco-Mexican War.
As a reminder, this is a relatively minor holiday in Mexico, while in the United States it has become a celebration of Mexican culture and heritage.
There's a garden party vibe. Stand up tables toward the back draped in festive colors: orange, robin egg blue, lime, etc. Wait staff are offering steaj tacos, pork tamales, cerveza, margaritas on the rocks and other food and drink. Tables with white folding chairs toward the front also in festive colors.
On the right is a bar and a table where a chef is mashing avocados for guacamole in a large molcajete.
More than 100 guests are enjoying the mild spring afternoon under an overcast sky as we await President Biden and the first lady of Mexico, Beatriz Gutiérrez Mueller de López Obrador.



May 5, 202216:40

Pool report #5/Cinco de Mayo
More from the Rose Garden open press Cinco de Mayo event...
Seems like the briefing won't really start in 5 minutes since the program hasn't begun yet.
Rain had been threatening since around 4:20 but the guests are still enjoying the schmoozing and music and hors d'oeuvres.
Plates of empenadas are still coming out of the Palm Room. And ceviche, jicama salad and watermelon, churros dipped in chocolate, and more. Definitely a shift toward sweets, and the trays of margaritas are not appearing very often anymore so probably it's getting close. Much alcohol has been served just since the press got out here about 50 minutes ago.
Spotted: Interior Secretary Deb Haaland, Neera Tanden. Ana Navarro chatting with Education Secretary Miguel Cardona.



May 5, 202217:05

Pool report #6/Cinco de Mayo event remarks
The president and Dr. Biden were announced at 4:46pm and emerged from the Oval Office.
US ambassador to Mexico Ken Salazar is near the bank of cameras at the front of the lawn. Jen Psaki, the soon to depart White House press secretary, has been near the Palm Room doors for a while.
Dr. Biden briefly recounted the Battle of Puebla as a brief engagement that was not terribly important strategically but which served as an inspiration because a rag tag Mexican army had defeated Napoleon's foreign legion.
She introduced Mexico's first lady.
"We are stronger when we face the challenges of our modern world together. And when we recognize our shared heritage, we can better understand and celebrate the true beauty and diversity of America," she said.
"The White House, Casa Blanca, is the people's house, your house, and the story of America is the story of you. The story of all of us. So, thank you for helping us celebrate our nation's Mexican American heritage today. And happy Cinco de Mayo."
President Biden briefly walked down from the stage to greet AMLO's first lady.
He gave shoutouts to the two cabinet members already noted (interior/Haaland and education/Cardona) and ambassador Salazar ("one the best ambassadors we have anywhere in the world.")
There are teleprompters but the president's initial remarks seemed casual and unscripted.
Then he recounted a conversation with AMLO himself.
"I told him that today, the United States and Mexico are more than good neighbors. They are genuine, true friends, partners" with "an unshakeable bond, strengthened by mutual respect" and a shared commitment to security.
He boasted of the diversity of his administration and cabinet. No mention that he just named Karine Jean-Pierre as press secretary.
He talked about border security. No mention of Title 42 ending later this month.
He reiterated support for a path to citizenship and to protect Dreamers. And he called for temporary protected status for farm workers, "essential workers. It's not only the right thing to do, but it's economically the smart thing to do as well."
At 5:01 the Bidens, Mexico's first lady and Ambassador Salazar entered the Oval Office.
Press ushered out.



May 5, 202217:08

Pool report #7/Cinco de Mayo guests
From the press office
In attendance for the President and the First Lady’s Cinco De Mayo Reception:

Mrs. Beatriz Gutiérrez Mueller de López Obrador, Wife of the President of Mexico
Deb Haaland, Secretary of the Interior
Miguel Cardona, Secretary of Education
Ken Salazar, U.S. Ambassador to Mexico
Esteban Moctezuma Barragán, Ambassador of Mexico to the U.S.
Approximately 250 guests, members of the administration, ambassadors, and other dignitaries as well as community leaders

Speaking program is as follows:

The First Lady
The President




May 5, 202217:14

pool report #8/2 minute warning for press briefing
At 5:13, a 2 minute warning.



May 5, 202218:12

pool report #9/lid
Jen Psaki's briefing on this Cinco de Mayo 2022, with a cameo from newly named successor Karine Jean-Pierre, ended at 6 pm sharp.
A lid was declared at 6:10. Spotted en route to Upper Press: the party is still going on in the Rose Garden.




  