
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
May 2
In the evening, the President met with congressional leaders to discuss the assault weapons ban.
May 3
In the morning, the President traveled to Atlanta, GA. In the afternoon, he was given a tour of the CNN International Studio. He returned to Washington, DC, in the evening.
The President announced his intention to nominate Gus A. Owen as a member of the Interstate Commerce Commission, and Robert J. Huggett as the Assistant Administrator for Research and Development at the Environmental Protection Agency.
May 4
In the evening, the President attended a fundraiser for Gov. Ann Richards of Texas at the Washington Court Hotel.
The President announced his intention to nominate Nancy Gist to be Director of the Bureau of Justice Assistance.
May 6
The President named Clyde A. Wheeler as a member of the Federal Agricultural Mortgage Corporation.
The President announced his intent to nominate Eamon M. Kelly as a member of the National Security Education Board.
The President announced his intent to appoint Bruce Babbitt as Federal member and Vincent D'Anna as alternate Federal member of the Delaware River Basin Commission.
The President announced his intent to appoint Ralph G. Hoard as a member of the International Pacific Halibut Commission.
The President announced his intent to appoint Bruce Babbitt as Federal member and Kenneth J. Cole as alternate Federal member of the Susquehanna River Basin Commission.
The President announced his intent to appoint Janet Lippe Norwood as chair and Leon Lynch as member of the Advisory Council on Unemployment Compensation.
The President announced his intention to appoint the following members of the Advisory Committee on Trade Policy and Negotiations:
—Roger J. Baccigaluppi;
—Curtis H. Barnette;
—John Bryson;
—James Camerlo;
—Maurice R. Greenberg;
—Donald G. Fisher;
—Dr. W. David Leak;
—Walter Y. Elisha;
—Fred Krupp;
—Charles P. Lazarus;
—Jerome Siegel;
—Rudolph A. Oswald;
—Vilma Martinez;
—Lenore Miller;
—J. McDonald Williams; and
—Andrew Young.
The President announced his intent to appoint John Richardson as a member of the Committee for the Preservation of the White House.
  