
    The following list does not include promotions of members of the Uniformed Services, nominations to the Service Academies, or nominations of Foreign Service officers.
Submitted April 28
Mari Carmen Aponte,
of Puerto Rico, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Dominican Republic.
E. William Crotty, of Florida, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Barbados, and to serve concurrently and without additional compensation as Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary to Antigua and Barbuda, the Commonwealth of Dominica, the State of Grenada, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, and St. Vincent and the Grenadines.
Jeffrey Davidow, of Virginia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Career Minister, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Mexico.
John O'Leary, of Maine, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Chile.
Arthur Louis Schechter, of Texas, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Commonwealth of the Bahamas.
Submitted April 29
Michael Craig Lemmon, of Florida, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Armenia.
Lynette Norton, of Pennsylvania, to be U.S. District Judge for the Western District of Pennsylvania, vice Maurice B. Cohill, Jr., retired.
Rudolf Vilem Perina, of Virginia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Moldova.
Jeffrey G. Stark, of New York, to be a Judge of the U.S. Court of International Trade, vice R. Kenton Musgrave, retired.
Submitted May 1
Natalia Combs Greene,
of the District of Columbia, to be an Associate Judge of the Superior Court of the District of Columbia for the term of 15 years, vice Stephen F. Eilperin.
Neal E. Kravitz,
of the District of Columbia, to be an Associate Judge of the Superior Court of the District of Columbia for the term of 15 years, vice Paul Rainey Webber III, term expired.
Withdrawn May 1
Kevin Emanuel Marchman, of Colorado, to be an Assistant Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, vice Joseph Shuldiner, which was sent to the Senate on March 19, 1997, and on January 29, 1998.
  