
    Across the country, local news outlets are highlighting how President Biden's Investing in America agenda is delivering for Americans across the country.
This week the Biden-Harris Administration announced new efforts to shelter the homeless, expand broadband access, and prepare America's workforce to fill good-paying jobs in regions all across the country.
See below for a sampling of what Americans are reading:
Addressing Unsheltered Homelessness with the ALL Inside Initiative 
Chicago Sun Times: Chicago to work with Biden administration on plan to fight homelessnessThe White House on Thursday announced a two-year, multiagency federal partnership with Chicago aimed at curbing unsheltered homelessness, placing a federal official within city government to organize response plans and help coordinate sources for additional federal funding. Chicago was one of six locations selected for the "ALL INside" program, an offshoot of President Joe Biden's December federal strategic plan aimed at reducing homelessness nationally by 25% by 2025.
Dallas Morning News: Dallas among five cities targeted in new federal initiative to fight homelessnessDallas is one of five cities, plus California, about to get more federal assistance in tackling homelessness, White House officials announced Thursday. President Joe Biden's domestic policy director Susan Rice and Veterans Affairs Secretary Denis McDonough hosted an event launching the new "All INside" initiative, part of a plan that has a goal of reducing homelessness nationally 25% by 2025.
KJZZ (NPR Phoenix, AZ): Phoenix area selected for new White House homelessness initiativeThe White House ALL INside initiative will embed a federal official in the Phoenix area and in the other participating regions. The goal is to streamline the process of getting federal aid for city or state-level homelessness programs. The program is part of the White House's strategic plan for homelessness which has a goal of reducing homelessness by 25% nationwide by 2025.
LAist: White House Picks LA For National Plan To Reduce HomelessnessThe White House has chosen the city of Los Angeles as one of six sites across the country to participate in a new federal initiative to reduce homelessness in the U.S. by 25% over the next two years. As part of the plan, the Biden administration will embed a federal official in each of the local governments.
Seattle Times: White House announces initiative to reduce homelessness in SeattlePresident Joe Biden's administration wants to accelerate efforts to get unsheltered people in Seattle into permanent housing as part of a federal initiative to reduce homelessness by 25% in two years, the White House announced Thursday. Through the initiative, ALL INside, the U.S. Interagency Council on Homelessness will partner with Seattle and five other cities and states: California, Chicago, Dallas, Los Angeles and the Phoenix metropolitan area.
American Rescue Plan Investments in Community Facility Projects in Delaware 
Delaware Business Times: Delaware gets $65M+ from ARPA for nonprofit service centersDelaware will receive $65.9 million from the American Rescue Plan Act's Capital Projects Fund to support building new and expanding existing community service centers around the state. The fund created by the Biden administration's ARPA in 2021 supports the expansion of high-speed broadband internet access, both through the physical expansion of cable networks to communities and through the development of centers where the public can access it.
Delaware News Journal: These Delaware nonprofits 'came up big' in pandemic. Now $65 million heading their wayThe money comes from a capital projects fund that is part of the American Rescue Plan Act, President Biden's nearly $1.9 trillion "build back better" program passed in 2021. The Capital Projects Fund has so far focused on awarding states money to deliver affordable and reliable internet. Broadband availability has been a point of emphasis for the Biden administration after the pandemic laid bare its importance in remote work and learning.
Funding for Tribal Land Internet Access Through the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law
Alaska Native News: First Lady Jill Biden and Secretary Deb Haaland Visit Bethel WednesdayDuring her visit, Biden is highlighting the Tribal Broadband Connectivity Program (TBCP) and the $386 million in grants to 21 projects throughout Alaska with $125 million in funding to two broadband infrastructure deployment projects in the Y-K Delta: the Airraq Network and the Alaska FiberOptic Project.
Richmond times-Dispatch: Chickahominy tribe receives $500,000 grant for high-speed internet planThe Chickahominy Indian Tribe will receive a $500,000 federal grant to plan a way to bridge the "digital divide" and expand the availability of high-speed internet in the aftermath of the COVID-19 pandemic. The program has received more than 300 applications from 450 tribes.
Highlighting the One Year Impact of the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law 
The Center Square: Report: Hawaii has received $1.2 billion from the Bipartisan Infrastructure LawHawaii has used $1.2 billion from the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law on roads, providing internet service to thousands and updating the state's airports and ports, according to a report released Monday from The White House. About 44,000 Hawaii residents are benefiting from low-cost high speed internet , according to the report. The state received about $5 million of its $100 million allocation in 2022 and this year.
Daily Journal: Over $40M in federal-aid highway fund commitments recognizedFollowing Infrastructure Week, local leaders have acknowledged the $41.46 million in federal-aid highway fund commitments made in Illinois. Credit for the funding is being given to the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law.
The Enquirer Gazette: Biden infrastructure program so far has sent $2.6 billion to MarylandPresident Joe Biden's infrastructure program so far has funneled $2.6 billion over the last two years to projects in Maryland, according to White House data. The Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, signed by Biden in November 2021, has been touted as a once-in-a-generation piece of legislation and the president is highlighting it as one of his key accomplishments as he makes his bid for reelection.
Connecting Hardworking Americans to Good Paying Jobs Through Workforce Hubs Initiative
Atlanta Business Chronicle: White House to launch workforce hub in AugustaThe Biden administration selected Augusta for a hub, along with Phoenix, Columbus, Pittsburgh and Baltimore. The cities will serve as a model, with the goal of replicating programs in other states, White House officials said.
Chamber Business News: Biden Administration to support workforce in Phoenix, Tempe as ASU is selected to lead clean energy projectThe Biden administration this week announced new strategies to train and connect workers across the country to jobs resulting from passage of the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law and the CHIPS and Science Act, with a special focus on investments in Phoenix and Tempe.
Cleveland.com: Columbus to be new federal 'workforce hub,' White House announcesColumbus will be among five new "Workforce Hubs," where the Biden administration will partner with state and local officials, employers, unions, community colleges, high schools, and other stakeholders to develop training programs to meet the region's demands for labor.
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette: The White House calls Pittsburgh 'a hub for innovation' as it moves to boost investmentThe city of Pittsburgh was one of five sites that the Biden administration designated Tuesday as workforce hubs to encourage more public and private investment in new and innovative industries. The funding came from the bipartisan infrastructure law and another measure to encourage development of advanced manufacturing such as computer chips.
Spectrum: White House to unveil advanced manufacturing jobs training, hiring strategyThe Biden administration is pledging to encourage employers, unions, and other industry stakeholders to expand offerings for apprenticeships, pre-apprenticeships, and career and technical education programs in advanced manufacturing fields, with a focus on access in underrepresented communities.
WBAL (NBC Baltimore, MD): Biden administration selects Baltimore as 1 of 5 'Workforce Hubs'The White House is investing in Baltimore in an effort to boost the skilled workforce. Baltimore is among five cities that the Biden administration is labeling "Workforce Hubs." The administration said it will partner with state and local officials, high schools, community colleges and unions to help Americans access jobs.
  