
    President Donald J. Trump today announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key positions in his Administration:
Susan Parker Bodine of Maryland to be an Assistant Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, Enforcement and Compliance Assurance. Ms. Bodine is Chief Counsel for the Senate Committee on Environment and Public Works, a position she has held since January 2015. Ms. Bodine's nearly 29 years of environmental law experience includes both government service and private practice. Ms. Bodine served in the George W. Bush administration as the assistant administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency's Office of Solid Waste and Emergency Response. Prior to that, Ms. Bodine was staff director and counsel for the Subcommittee on Water Resources and Environment of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure. She also was an associate at Covington & Burling and a partner at Barnes & Thornburg. Ms. Bodine's undergraduate degree is from Princeton University and her law degree is from the University of Pennsylvania School of Law.
Brian D. Quintenz of Ohio to be a Commissioner of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission for the remainder of a five-year term expiring April 13, 2020. Mr. Quintenz was the Founder, Managing Principal, and Chief Investment Officer of Saeculum Capital Management LLC from November 2013 to November 2016. Before holding that position, Mr. Quintenz was a consultant with Rose International from June 2013 until November 2013. Prior to this, he worked at Hill-Townsend Capital LLC from 2009 to 2012, first as an Analyst and then as the Senior Associate. Mr. Quintenz served in the office of U.S. Representative Deborah Pryce from 2001 to 2007, first as a Staff Assistant, then a Legislative Assistant, and finally Senior Policy Advisor. Mr. Quintenz received a B.S. from Duke University and an M.B.A. from Georgetown University's McDonough School of Business.
James J. Sullivan, Jr. of Pennsylvania to be a Member of the Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission. Mr. Sullivan has 37 years of experience representing employers throughout the United States in matters involving labor, employment, and occupational safety and health law. He has been a partner at Pepper, Klett Rooney and, most recently, Buchanan Ingersoll and Rooney. From 2014 to 2017, Mr. Sullivan served as the management co-chair of the Occupational Safety and Health Law Committee of the American Bar Association's Labor Law Section. He received a BA from The Pennsylvania State University and a JD from The Georgetown University Law Center.
Brooks D. Tucker of Maryland to be an Assistant Secretary of Veterans Affairs, Congressional and Legislative Affairs. Mr. Tucker currently serves as a Senior Adviser to the Secretary of Veterans Affairs. He previously served as a policy adviser on the Presidential Transition Team and as Senior Policy Adviser, National Security, and Veterans' Affairs for Senator Richard Burr. Prior to his government service, Mr. Tucker was an investment adviser with Deutsche Bank and Merrill Lynch. He is a retired Lieutenant Colonel and infantry officer in the United States Marine Corps. Mr. Tucker received his Bachelor of Arts in English Language and Literature from the University of Maryland.
-------
President Donald J. Trump Announces Intent to Appoint William Ellison Grayson to the Board of Directors of the Presidio Trust
President Donald J. Trump today announced his intent to appoint William Ellison Grayson of California to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Presidio Trust (S.F. Bay Area Rep.).
  