
    In Her Element: "[A]t this point in the long race, Clinton has found a groove, pushing forward relentlessly.[and] makes clear every day she intends to run the race to the finish line." Read more.
By the Numbers: "The latest Gallup Daily Tracking Poll provides the most vivid red flag warning yet for Democratic Sen. Barack Obama.presumptive GOP nominee Sen. John McCain now enjoys a six point lead over Obama and only a one point lead over Clinton. Read more.
Previewing Tomorrow: On ABC's This Week with George Stephanopoulos, Hillary takes questions from Mr. Stephanopoulos and voters in Indiana and North Carolina.
Superdelegate Watch: Hillary received the endorsement yesterday of Texas DNC member and automatic delegate Jaime A. Gonzalez Jr.Mr. Gonzalez stated that Hillary "has shown the leadership qualities that we need to win the presidency in the general election and give Democrats a victory in November." Read more.
Fighting Rising Fuel Prices: Yesterday, at John Deere Sales and Service in Kinston, NC, Hillary "slammed the oil industry for their record-breaking profits, as ordinary Americans were forced to pay higher and higher gas prices. Clinton accused oil companies of 'manipulating' the market, saying it is a 'fact' that oil speculators are driving prices up." Read more.
Fact HUB: "Sen. Obama wants the American people to pay the gas tax this summer but Sen. Clinton thinks Big Oil should.Sen. Obama voted three times for a gas tax holiday in 2000 when gas prices were less than $2 a gallon." Read more.
WV Endorsement Watch: Yesterday the campaign "announced the support of 11 West Virginia lawmakers from across the Mountain State" and also "the formation of the West Virginia Veterans for Hillary Steering Committee." Read more and more.
On The Air In Oregon: The Clinton campaign released its first television ad in Oregon yesterday, highlighting Hillary's commitment to take on the big challenges facing Oregon and our nation. Watch "Turn" here.
Getting Out The Vote: Hillary campaigns through the Tar Heel State today with Gov. Mike Easley. tonight, she hosts a special rally with singer-songwriter John Mellencamp in Indianapolis with President Clinton.
  