
    Today, USA Today reported that the Speaker McCarthy and House Republicans' "legislation to raise the debt ceiling would result in the largest cuts to veterans benefits in U.S. history…including the elimination of 81,000 jobs from the Department of Veterans Affairs" and result in "30 million fewer Veterans Affairs' outpatient visits and increase the disability backlog of veterans by 134,000." This legislation forces 22% federal spending cuts across the board, which would cripple the Department of Veteran Affairs and hurt the approximately nine million veterans who use their services.
USA Today reports that last week "twenty-four veterans' groups signed a letter to Congress expressing 'grace concerns' about the veterans' cuts."
President Biden has called on Congress to avoid default without conditions, as it did three times during the past administration.
Read the full piece below:
USA Today: White House says GOP debt ceiling plan would cause largest VA benefits cuts in US history[Joey Garrison, 5/2/23]
WASHINGTON — Republican-backed legislation to raise the debt ceiling would result in the largest cuts to veterans benefits in U.S. history, the White House said Tuesday, including the elimination of 81,000 jobs from the Department of Veterans Affairs.
The bill, which the Republican-controlled House approved last week, would also result in 30 million fewer Veterans Affairs' outpatient visits and increase the disability backlog of veterans by 134,000, according to a White House memo released exclusively to USA TODAY.
"These draconian cuts to America's veterans have no precedent in America's history," White House spokesman Andrew Bates said in the memo. "And prioritizing tax welfare for wealthy special interests over honoring our commitments to those who have put their lives on the line for our country is as backwards as politics gets."
The Department of Veterans Affairs is an agency of the federal government that provides benefits and health care services to approximately nine million veterans.
Twenty-four veterans' groups signed a letter to Congress expressing "grace concerns" about the veterans' cuts before the House voted 217-215 last Wednesday to approve the debt ceiling bill pushed by House Speaker Kevin McCarthy.
The legislation includes $4.5 trillion in cuts to government programs – a 22% reduction overall, according to the White house – and would raise the debt ceiling May 2024.
Biden has vowed to veto the bill, which is unlikely to pass the Democratic-controlled Senate, warning that cuts would hurt "hard-working Americans" who depend on the targeted programs and benefits.
Biden wants the debt ceiling to be raised by Congress without conditions, like it has under past presidencies, but he's been unable to sway McCarthy and Republicans who are demanding spending cuts.
Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen warned Monday that the U.S. could reach its borrowing limit by June 1 unless the debt ceiling is raised, putting the nation at risk of going into default. McCarthy agreed to meet with Biden and other congressional leaders May 9 at the White House.
  