
    (Charleston, WV) - The Clinton campaign today announced its West Virginia for Hillary Leadership Council, a group of leaders from across the state who are working to make Hillary successful in the primary.
"I am honored and grateful to have the support of so many leaders from across West Virginia," said Clinton. "I look forward to coming back to the Mountain State in the coming days and meeting face to face with West Virginians to discuss how we can find real solutions to the challenges facing working families."
The West Virginia for Hillary Leadership Council includes labor leaders, members of the State Senate and House of Delegates, Democratic Party leaders, the WVU Student Body President, and other leaders who represent communities throughout the state.
"Hillary Clinton shares the values of West Virginians. She will be a strong advocate for working families and will fight to make our country safer, stronger, and more secure starting day one," said Kent Carper, President of the Kanawha County Commission.
"This is an historic moment for West Virginia. We are proud to be playing a central role in choosing Hillary Clinton as the next President of the United States," said Chuck Smith, former Chair of the West Virginia State Democratic Executive Committee.
The announcement of the Leadership Council comes as the campaign's strong statewide network of supporters continue to urge friends and neighbors to Vote Early for Clinton, offering rides, knocking on doors, and making calls. Early Vote ends on May 10. West Virginia's primary is one week from tomorrow.
The West Virginia for Hillary Leadership Council includes;
Lane Bailey, Former Chief of Staff to Senator Jay Rockefeller; Worldwide Director Golin Harris, Public Affairs; Board of Governors, Concord University
Belinda Biafore, Vice Chair, West Virginia State Democratic Executive Committee
Bonnie Brown, Member, House of Delegates (30th District)
Richard Browning, Member, House of Delegates (22th District)
Bill Burke, Former member, House of Delegates
Marge Burke, Former member, House of Delegates
Kent Carper, President, Kanawha County Commission
Barbara Core, Circuit Clerk, Marion County
Barbara Evans Fleischauer, Member, House of Delegates (44th District)
Jean Ford, Mayor of Williamstown
Judy Hale, President, AFT-West Virginia
Elaine Harris, International Representative, Communications Workers of America
Ed Hartman, Executive Director, AFSCME
Barbara Hatfield, Member, House of Delegates (30th District), Registered Nurse
Ron Justice, Mayor of Morgantown
Steve Kominar, Member, House of Delegates (20th District)
Linda Longstreth, Member, House of Delegates (43rd District)
Pat Maroney, DNC National Committeeman; Former Chair, West Virginia State Democratic Executive Committee
Cleo Mathews, Mayor of Hinton
Steve McElroy, Executive Director, West Virginia Nurses Association; CEO, WVNA Foundation
Tim Miley, Member, House of Delegates (41st District)
Teresa Kay Miller, Former Morgantown City Council Member
Charlotte Moreland, Former Deputy Staff Director, U.S. Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs
Michael Oliverio, Member, State Senate (13th District)
Jason Parsons, Student Body President, WVU
Dan Poling, Member, House of Delegates (10th District); Director of Governmental Affairs, IUPAT District Council 53
Marie Prezioso, DNC National Committeewoman
Roman Prezioso, Member, State Senate (13th District)
Phyllis Rutledge, Former Speaker Pro Tempore of the West Virginia House of Delegates
Jenny Selin, Morgantown City Council Member
Martin Shaffer, Clarksburg City Council Member
Chuck Smith, Former Chair, West Virginia State Democratic Executive Committee
Libby Stout, WWII Veteran, 110th Women's Army Corps
Lyle Stowers, 2nd Vice Chairman, West Virginia State Democratic Executive Committee
Bob Tabb, Member, House of Delegates (56th District)
Steve White, Former Chair, West Virginia State Democratic Executive Committee
Jack Yeager, Ret. Adjutant General of the West Virginia Army National Guard
  