
    WASHINGTON, DC – Today, President Barack Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals for key posts at the Department of the Treasury: Rosa "Rosie" Gumatao Rios, United States Treasurer, and Daniel M. Tangherlini, Assistant Secretary for Management and Chief Financial Officer. Mr. Tangherlini will also serve as the Chief Performance Officer of the Treasury.
President Obama said, "I am grateful to have these two distinguished individuals joining my administration at this critical time for our nation. Under the leadership of Secretary Geithner, I am confident that they will serve the American people well as we work to right our economy and put our nation on a path to prosperity."
President Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals today:
Rosa "Rosie" Gumatao Rios, Nominee for United States Treasurer, Department of the Treasury
Rios is Managing Director of Investments for MacFarlane Partners, one of the leading real estate investment management firms in the U.S. with more than $11 billion in assets under management. Rios serves as a primary liaison with the firm's development and global capital partners to facilitate equity transactions for large mixed-use development projects in key urban areas and recently closed on over $345 million worth of equity commitments. Following her work on the Latino vote in Virginia during the presidential campaign, Rios took a leave of absence from MacFarlane Partners to serve as a member of the Treasury/Federal Reserve Transition Team on behalf of the Obama Administration. Rios has over 20 years of real estate and community development experience. Prior to joining MacFarlane Partners, she was a Principal with Red River Associates, a consulting firm specializing in providing development, project management and executive management services for municipalities. Previously, Rios served as the Director of the Redevelopment and Economic Development for the City of Oakland. Managing a staff of nearly 100 people, she led the efforts of the two departments to facilitate development and business opportunities within Oakland as well as to revitalize the city's downtown and neighborhood corridors. Rios also has served as Director of Economic Development for the City of Fremont (Calif.), as Development Specialist for the City of San Leandro (Calif.), and as Manager of the Union City (Calif.) Redevelopment Agency. She began her career as a Commercial Property Underwriter for General Reinsurance Corporation in San Francisco. Rios currently serves as a Trustee of the Alameda County (Calif.) Employees' Retirement Association (ACERA) and is a board member of the California Association of Local Economic Development (CALED) and the Fruitvale Spanish-Speaking Unity Council. She is also a Fellow with the Royal Society for the Arts. She received her Bachelor's degree in sociology and romance languages and literature from Harvard University.
Daniel M. Tangherlini, Assistant Secretary for Management and Chief Financial Officer, and the Chief Performance Officer, Department of the Treasury
Tangherlini currently serves as the City Administrator/Deputy Mayor in the administration of Washington, DC's Mayor Adrian M. Fenty. His responsibilities include managing the day-to-day operations, budget development and performance management of District agencies. His appointment marked a return to the District government, where he served as the Director of the District of Columbia Department of Transportation (DDOT) from June 2000 to February 2006. Prior to his appointment as City Administrator, Tangherlini served as the interim general manager of the Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority (WMATA), which he led from February 2006. During his tenure, he worked to make the agency more responsive to its riders and workers and more willing to consider new ideas that improved service, reduced costs and enhanced quality. Tangherlini also served the District of Columbia as Chief Financial Officer of the Metropolitan Police Department from November 1998 to May 2000. In the Executive Office of the Mayor, Tangherlini was the leader of the short-term action team from January to April 1999 that developed high-visibility, short-term initiatives for District of Columbia Mayor Anthony Williams. Before joining the District government, Tangherlini worked in the Policy Office of the US Secretary of Transportation and in a variety of capacities during six years of service with the Office of Management and Budget in the Executive Office of the President. Tangherlini received his Bachelor's and Master's degrees in Public Policy Studies from the University of Chicago and his Master's degree in Business Administration from The Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania.
  