
    I AM disheartened by the action taken in the Senate Monday on the education amendments of 1974. I previously indicated my intention to veto the committee version of S. 1539. While some improvements were made on the floor to S. 1539, the bill, as it now stands, would solve few of the problems that must be solved if we are to improve the quality of public education in America, and it contains provisions which would create several new problems.
Consolidation of present funding procedures is essential if the Federal Government is to be a source of assistance rather than a bottleneck in the funding of elementary, secondary, and adult educational programs. While the Senate has moved toward consolidation of some programs, it has not moved nearly far enough. Where it 'has provided for consolidation, it has needlessly mandated funding levels for these programs, and it has added numerous other categorical assistance programs.
The Senate bill, far from cutting bureaucratic red tape, would create 16 new bureaucratic structures, prohibit decentralization of decisionmaking, and add cumbersome, time-consuming, and restrictive administrative procedures.
I am concerned with the fact that the Senate bill fails to deal with the need for complete reform of the impact aid program. At present, the Federal taxpayer is subsidizing education for children of Federal employees in areas where this support is wholly unwarranted and constitutes a needless subsidy.
I must once again state my unequivocal opposition to forced busing for the purpose of achieving racial balance. The experience of the past 5 years across America shows that we can dismantle dual school systems without resorting to massive forced busing. We must recognize that the goal is not to bus children for the sake of busing, but to provide the finest education we can for the sake of our children. This can be accomplished best in neighborhood schools under educational policies established at the local level, and not imposed by the Federal Government. As I have indicated previously, I support the the busing provision of H.R. 69 over those contained in the Senate bill.
Finally, I have urged in the strongest terms the necessity of advance funding for consolidated programs under an acceptable elementary and secondary education bill. State and local governments must know before the school term begins what the Federal portion of their budgets will be if they are to be able to plan their academic programs effectively and efficiently. When legislation is sent to me that I can approve, I will send a supplemental appropriation request to the Congress to enable forward funding of these programs.
I am hopeful that the difficulties presented by the Senate bill can be resolved in conference, so that we can get on with the vital business of helping local school boards provide the best possible education for all of America's children. The Administration will continue to work with the Congress in the effort to provide an education bill which is fair to all, acceptable to all, and which will advance the effort to provide the highest quality education for all.
  