
    Today, following the endorsement of the NRDC Action Fund–the first time in their history they have endorsed a Presidential candidate–Hillary Clinton issued the following statement:
"I am honored to have earned the first-ever presidential endorsement of the NRDC Action Fund.
"Climate change is real, it is being driven by human activity, and it is happening right now. We can't wait for climate deniers and defeatists to get on board–we need to take immediate action to build on the progress President Obama has made in fighting this unprecedented global threat. We need to use every tool we have to make America the clean energy superpower of the 21st century and to make sure no one is left out or left behind in the clean energy economy, from communities struggling with the legacy of environmental racism to the coalfield communities that kept America's lights on for generations.
"That's why I have a comprehensive plan to combat climate change with bold, national goals to expand clean energy, boost energy efficiency, and slash oil consumption. I will fight alongside the NRDC Action Fund for environmental and climate justice and invest in building a bright future for coalfield communities. And together, we can get half of our electricity from clean sources within 10 years, create millions of good-paying jobs, protect our communities from the dangerous climate impacts that we're already seeing, and ensure America is leading the world in the fight against climate change.
"The stakes for our children's health and the future of our planet have never been higher. The presumptive Republican nominee has called climate change a Chinese hoax and called for scrapping the landmark Paris climate agreement. He has pledged to open up millions of acres of pristine public lands and waters to fossil fuel production at a time when America's public lands are under unprecedented pressures. We need to be accelerating the transition to a clean energy future, not letting a climate denier doom our children to a future beyond their capacity to repair.
"It has never been more critical that we come together to face the shared challenge of climate change–because there is no Planet B."
  