
    Next week, First Lady Michelle Obama will host spouses of foreign leaders who are visiting the United States for the G-8 and NATO summits. Mrs. Obama will invite spouses to the White House and, while in Chicago, to visit the Gary Comer Youth Center which supports youth living on the South Side of Chicago, where Mrs. Obama grew up.
On May 19th, while President Obama is hosting G-8 leaders at Camp David, First Lady Michelle Obama will invite their spouses to the White House for a tour guided by White House Curator Bill Allman and an intimate lunch. Chef José Andrés will work with White House Chefs to prepare the meal using produce from the White House Kitchen Garden. The tour portion of this event held at 11:30 AM will be pooled press.
On May 20th, Mrs. Obama will then travel to Chicago where she will invite NATO leaders' spouses to the Gary Comer Youth Center on the South Side of Chicago. The Center offers young people diverse, educational and extracurricular enrichment activities as well as support to help prepare them to graduate from high school and to pursue college and meaningful careers. The Center's programs include academic tutoring, college readiness courses, a Youth Urban Agriculture Program held at its rooftop garden, a culinary program, visual arts opportunities, and fitness and physical education classes.
The First Lady will greet spouses and invite them to take a tour of the Gary Comer Youth Center. Following this tour, they will join the Center's youth members and faculty at a performance by the South Shore Dance Drill Team; the Chicago-based Muntu Dance Theater known for their African and African-American dance, music and folklore performances; and Soul Children of Chicago which uses music to motivate and inspire young people. Founded in 1980, the South Shore Drill Team uses performing arts to engage urban youth by teaching responsibility and camaraderie through its dance routines and performances around the country. The Gary Comer Youth Center serves as home base to the Drill Team. This visit will be pooled press. Following the performance, Mrs. Obama and the NATO Leaders' spouses will sit for a private lunch created by Chef Paul Kahan who worked with Gary Comer Youth Center youth members in preparing the meal.
Later that evening, Mrs. Obama will invite NATO Leaders' spouses to the Art Institute of Chicago for a private dinner.
  