
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Kevin Madden (857) 288-6390
Boston, MA - Today, Governor Mitt Romney announced the endorsement of New Hampshire State Senator Bob Letourneau (R-Derry). Senator Letourneau will play an integral role on the Romney campaign, helping to reach out to voters and to spread Governor Romney's message of bringing conservative change to Washington.
"Senator Letourneau is an important figure in the Derry area and throughout all of New Hampshire. He is a leader in the New Hampshire Legislature and understands the importance of making government work again," said Governor Romney. "I look forward to working closely with him to bring conservative principles back to government and to end the status quo in Washington."
In joining Romney for President, Senator Letourneau said, "After joining Governor Romney at campaign stops in New Hampshire, and hearing from him in the Republican debates, I've decided he is the candidate best able to lead our nation forward and address the new generation of challenges facing our nation. His optimistic vision and fundamental belief in the American people will lead to a stronger America. I am proud to join Governor Romney's campaign here in the Granite State."
Background On State Senator Bob Letourneau:
Senator Bob Letourneau Was Elected To Represent Derry, New Hampshire In The State Senate In 2004. Previous to his election to the Senate, Letourneau was a member for four terms of the New Hampshire House of Representatives, where he served as Assistant Majority Leader. Letourneau is the Chairman of the Senate Transportation and Interstate Cooperation Committee. The Senator also serves on the Senate Judiciary, Election Law and Education Committees. Letourneau is also a member of the state Motorcycle Rider Education Advisory Board and the Governors Motorcycle Safety Task Force. Letourneau is Chairman of the New Hampshire Civil War Memorial Commission. He and his wife, Anne-Marie, have three adult children, Diane, Robert Jr. and David.
  