
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate three individuals, his appointment of five individuals and his official nomination of two individuals to serve in his administration.
The President intends to nominate Daniel Charles Kurtzer to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the State of Israel. Ambassador Kurtzer is a career Minister in the Senior Foreign Service and has served as Ambassador to Egypt since 1997. He previously served in Washington, D.C., as Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary of State in the Bureau of Intelligence and Research from 1994 to 1997 and as Deputy Assistant Secretary in the Bureau of Near Eastern Affairs from 1989 to 1994. From 1987 to 1989 he was a Member of the Secretary of State's Policy Planning Staff and has completed several other overseas assignments. He is a graduate of Yeshiva University and received an M.A., a Ph.M. and Ph.D. from Columbia University.
The President intends to nominate Thomas P. Christie to be Director of Operational Test and Evaluation at the Department of Defense. He is currently the Director of the Operational Evaluation Division at the Institute for Defense Analysis. From 1986 to 1989 he was the Director of Program Integration in the Office of the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition. From 1977 to 1986, Christie served in the Office of the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Program Analysis and Evaluation as Deputy Assistant Secretary for Operational Test and Evaluation and as Deputy Assistant Secretary for General Purpose Programs. He is a graduate of Spring Hill College and received a Master's degree from New York University.
The President intends to nominate Arthur F. Rosenfeld to be General Counsel of the National Labor Relations Board. He is presently the Senior Labor Counsel for the U.S. Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions. From 1986 to 1997, he served at the Department of Labor as Associate Deputy Secretary of Labor, Special Assistant to the Solicitor and then as Counsel for Regulations in the Employee Benefits Division in the Office of the Solicitor. Rosenfeld is a graduate of Muhlenberg College, received a M.B.A. from Lehigh University and a J.D. from Villanova University.
The President has appointed the following individuals to serve as Members of the Federal Home Mortgage Corporation for a term ending on the date of the next annual meeting of the stockholders in 2002. Four of the five members of the Corporation who are appointed by the President are statutorily required to represent the indicated sectors.
William Dodd Powers of New York (Mortgage Lending) Cesar Benito Cabrera of Puerto Rico (Real Estate) David James Gribbin III of Maryland (Public) Catherine Lynn Stepp of Wisconsin (Homebuilding) Michelle Engler of Michigan (Community Interests)
The President has nominated Charles W. Pickering, Sr. to be a Judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit.
The President has nominated Timothy M. Tymkovich to be a Judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit.
  