
    WASHINGTON – Today, President Barack Obama announced his intent to nominate John S. Pistole as Assistant Secretary for the Department of Homeland Security (Transportation Security Administration).
President Obama said, "The talent and knowledge John has acquired in more than two decades of service with the F.B.I. will make him a valuable asset to our administration's efforts to strengthen the security and screening measures at our airports. I am grateful that he has agreed to take on this important role, and I look forward to working with him in the weeks and months ahead."
President Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individual to a key administration post:
John S. Pistole, Nominee for Assistant Secretary, Department of Homeland Security (Transportation Security Administration)
John S. Pistole currently serves as Deputy Director of the F.B.I., a position he has held since October 2004. Previously, Mr. Pistole worked in the F.B.I's Counterterrorism Division, beginning in 2002 as Deputy Assistant Director for Operations, then as Assistant Director for Counterterrorism, and later as Executive Assistant Director for Counterterrorism and Counterintelligence. Mr. Pistole began his career as a Special Agent with the F.B.I. in 1983. He served in the Minneapolis and New York Divisions before being promoted to a Supervisor in the Organized Crime Section at F.B.I. Headquarters. Mr. Pistole later served as a field supervisor of a White-Collar Crime and Civil Rights Squad in Indianapolis, Indiana, and then as Assistant Special Agent in Charge in Boston, Massachusetts. In 1999, Mr. Pistole helped lead the investigative and recovery efforts for the Egypt Air Flight 990 crash off the coast of Rhode Island. Following the espionage arrest of Robert Hanssen, Mr. Pistole helped lead the Information Security Working Group in 2001, addressing security and vulnerability issues. He was then named an Inspector in the F.B.I.'s Inspection Division. Mr. Pistole is a recipient of the 2005 Presidential Rank Award for Distinguished Executive and, in 2007, the Department of Justice Edward H. Levy Award for Outstanding Professionalism and Exemplary Integrity. Prior to joining the F.B.I., Mr. Pistole practiced law for two years. He is a graduate of Anderson University and the Indiana University School of Law – Indianapolis.
  