
    Lavery, Vizcaino, Trujillo and Lee to Lead Clinton's Team
The Clinton campaign today announced several key additions to its senior staff in California. Joining State Director Ace Smith will be Political Director Chris Lavery, Communications Director Luis Vizcaino, Field Director Michael Trujillo and Deputy Field Director Connie Lee. All four bring extensive California experience to Hillary's campaign.
"We have a strong team in California that can carry our message of change throughout the state," Clinton said.
Political Director Chris Lavery served as Deputy National Field Director for the Democratic National Committee during the 2004 general election campaign, and before that was Deputy Political Director and Traveling Chief of Staff for Senator Joe Lieberman's 2004 presidential campaign. Lavery also served as Northeastern Political Director for Al Gore's 2000 campaign and in the Clinton/Gore White House.
Communications Director Luis Vizcaino was most recently the Communications and Marketing Director for the Human Rights Campaign, and before that served as a Senior Communications Adviser to Los Angeles Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa during his transition. In 2004, Vizcaino was Deputy Director of Media Affairs for the Kerry/Edwards campaign, serving as a spokesman and managing press operations in 20 states. From 2002 to 2004, Vizcaino served as Press Secretary to California Lt. Gov Cruz Bustamante.
Field Director Michael Trujillo most recently managed Tamar Galatzan's campaign for Los Angeles Unified School District Board, and before that was Political Director for Mayor Villaraigosa's Committee on Government Excellence and Accountability. Trujillo worked for Villaraigosa from 2001 to 2006, serving as Field Director for his City Council race and adviser for his mayoral race.
Deputy Field Director Connie Lee has worked on several state legislative races, and most recently worked on Galatzan's School Board race.
"We are excited about the depth of talent and experience we've assembled in California," Smith said. "This is a top-notch team that will help Senator Clinton carry the Golden State."
  