
    To the Congress of the United States:
In a message to the Congress on September 11, 1970, transmitting a report of the American Revolution Bicentennial Commission, I strongly endorsed the Commission's view that the primary emphasis in our commemoration of the Nation's birth should be a nation-wide celebration, involving every State, city and community.
At the same time, I agreed that we should encourage international participation in our celebration. Philadelphia seemed a natural choice as the principal site for an international exposition because it was there that the Declaration of Independence was signed and the Constitution created. Accordingly, I informed the Congress that the Secretary of State was being instructed to proceed officially with the Bureau of International Expositions in registering an international exposition in Philadelphia in 1976.
At that time, I also pointed out that this exposition was dependent upon the assurance of suitable support and a review of financial and other arrangements by appropriate parties, including high-level government officials.
The Chairman of the Bicentennial Commission, David J. Mahoney, has now informed me that on May 16, the members of his commission voted not to approve the proposal submitted by the Philadelphia 1976 Bicentennial Corporation for this international exposition. Among the reasons cited were the large costs to the Federal government, a question of whether it was still appropriate to hold such a large exposition in one city, the Commission's continuing commitment to a nation-wide celebration, and a question of whether sufficient time remained to make all necessary arrangements. The vote of the Commission was 23-4 against the exposition.
Also, I have been jointly advised by the Secretary of Commerce and the Director of the Office of Management and Budget, that we should not proceed unless certain basic conditions could be met. There is no evidence now that we can fulfill those conditions.
Under the full weight of these recommendations, I have reluctantly concluded that we cannot prudently go forward with the international exposition in Philadelphia.
I am therefore asking the Secretary of State to take action at the impending meeting of the Bureau of International Expositions to withdraw the registration of the international exposition in Philadelphia. I have also asked the Secretary to make clear to the Bureau of International Expositions that the United States, and its many State and local governments, will warmly welcome foreign participation-both public and private--in our Bicentennial. And, I am asking the American Revolution Bicentennial Commission to ensure that their plans include encouragement for such participation.
I remain firmly convinced that Philadelphia, in commemoration of its unique place in American history, will and should play a major role in the Nation's 1976 observances, and that the celebration of this birthday will reflect the vital and abundant spirit of our Nation.
RICHARD NIXON
THE WHITE HOUSE,
May 22, 1972.
  