
    The President today announced his intention to appoint the following individuals to be members of the National Cancer Advisory Board for terms expiring March 9, 1990:
Roswell K. Boutwell is director of research for the Radiation Energy Research Foundation in Hiroshima, Japan. He is on leave from McArdle Laboratory for Cancer Research at the University of Wisconsin, where he is a professor of oncology. He is married and has three children. He was born November 24, 1917, in Madison, WI. This is a reappointment.
Helene G. Brown is director for community applications at Jonsson Comprehensive Cancer Center at the University of California at Los Angeles. Since 1977 she has served as chairman of the education committee for the American Cancer Society. She is married, has two children, and resides in Sherman Oaks, CA. She was born May 3, 1929, in New York City. She will succeed Morris M. Schrier.
Gertrude B. Elion is scientist emeritus, Wellcome Research Labs, Research Triangle Park, NC, and serves as research professor of pharmacology and medicine at Duke University Medical Center. Dr. Elion resides in Chapel Hill, NC. She was born January 23, 1918, in New York City. She will succeed Janet Davison Rowley.
David Korn is professor and chairman of the department of pathology at Stanford Medical School in Stanford, CA. He was chairman of the board of scientific counselors, division of cancer biology and diagnosis, National Cancer Institute in 1980-1982. He is married, has three children, and resides in Stanford. He was born March 5, 1933, in Providence, RI. He will succeed Sheldon W. Samuels.
Louise Connally Strong is associate professor of medical genetics, associate geneticist, and associate professor of pediatrics and biology at the University of Texas System Cancer Center, M.D. Anderson Hospital and Tumor Institute in Houston, TX. She is married, has two children, and resides in Houston. She was born April 23, 1944, in San Antonio, TX. She will succeed Maureen McGrath Henderson.
  