
    To the Congress of the United States: I am transmitting herewith for the consideration of the Congress the 6th Annual Report on Weather Modification (for Fiscal Year 1964) as submitted to me by the Director of the National Science Foundation. The development of methods for altering weather and climate to the benefit of mankind is a subject of quickening interest in the Congress and the Executive Branch of the Government of the United States--as, indeed, it is to all of the human race. We recognize that achievement of such a capability would mean vast economic and social gains for human life on this earth. I believe it is both symptomatic and symbolic of the character of the American people that we are now engaged in first steps toward this goal, not for any narrow national purpose but in the confidence that such benefits will be shared as a mutual blessing with all of our fellowmen.
We hope someday to acquire the knowledge permitting us to minimize the incidence and severity of hurricanes, tornadoes, and other violent storms and, also, to be able to improve the temperature and rainfall conditions in agricultural and industrial regions. This hope is not fanciful or unrealistic, but it would be misleading to suggest that such a day is near now.
The scientific and engineering obstacles that must be overcome rank in magnitude with those encountered in developing peaceful uses of nuclear power and compare with those now being encountered in our attempts to place a man on the moon. But weather modification is still several steps behind atomic energy and the exploration of space. These latter are essentially engineering problems--extremely complex of course, but in areas where the basic scientific laws are well understood. In contrast, the achievement of large scale purposeful weather modification depends upon scientific knowledge not yet acquired--knowledge about atmospheric phenomena ranging from the interactions of minute water droplets to the behavior of global air circulations. Furthermore, it is essential for us to investigate the manner in which man may at present be inadvertently changing weather and climate.
Substantial progress has been made, as this report reflects. But the pace has been slow. To advance the rate of progress, an effort of larger scope and direction is needed both in conducting basic research and in developing means to put the knowledge to work.
Over the past year, there have been positive actions which are reviewed in this report. These actions include the following:
1. Increased support for atmospheric research by a number of Federal Agencies, including the National Science Foundation, U.S. Weather Bureau, National Aeronautics and Space Administration, Department of the Interior, and the Department of Defense.
2. Establishment of a special commission on weather modification by the National Science Foundation charged with assessing the anticipated benefits to be gained from weather modification efforts; the general paths which research and development should take; the support required; and the legal, social, and political problems that will be encountered if weather modification techniques are more broadly applied.
3. Greater emphasis on the graduate research and education of promising students who will be involved in atmospheric research.
4. Strengthened cooperation among Federal Agencies through the Federal Council for Science and Technology.
5. Stepped up international cooperation in support of weather activities because it is clear that large scale weather or climate control schemes cannot be contained within national boundaries.
6. It is particularly noteworthy--and welcome-that more activity has been initiated by Committees of both Houses of Congress looking carefully into weather modification activities in the light of increased Federal investment in field tests and backup basic research, and in response to increasing interest in moving quickly toward application of our knowledge and capabilities.
If the day is distant and dim when the benefits of weather modification will become real, tangible and universally enjoyed, it is no longer possible for any to argue justifiably that such a day is beyond the reach of man at all. Our knowledge must be enlarged and perfected, far beyond its present limits. But we can--and we do--believe that eventually these efforts underway now will succeed. That success will inure to the credit of the interest, initiative and understanding of the Congress in offering encouragement and support to this worthy and important research.
LYNDON B. JOHNSON
The White House
May 24, 1965
  