
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
May 21
In the afternoon, the President attended a Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee fundraiser at a private residence in Sacramento, CA.
May 22
In the early morning, the President returned to Washington, DC.
May 23
In the afternoon, the President and Hillary Clinton attended a reception at Hickory Hill, the Kennedy estate in McLean, VA.
The President announced his intention to nominate Delissa A. Ridgeway as Chair and John R. Lacey as Commissioner of the Foreign Claims Settlement Commission.
May 24
In the evening, the President hosted a dinner for historians, veterans, and Members of Congress to discuss the 50th anniversary of D-Day and the President's trip to Europe.
The President announced the appointment of the following 14 members to the 20-member President's Council on Physical Fitness and Sports:
—Elizabeth Arendt;
—Jeff Blatnick;
—Ralph Boston;
—Don Casey;
—Rockne Freitas;
—Zina Garrison-Jackson;
—Calvin Hill;
—Jimmie Huega;
—Judith Pinero Kieffer;
—Deborah Slaner Larkin;
—Ira Leesfield;
—Jack Mills;
—Kevin Saunders;
—Amber Travsky.
The President announced his intention to nominate Sandra Stuart to be Assistant Secretary of Defense for Legislative Affairs and Judith A. Miller to be General Counsel for the Department of Defense.
May 25
In the late afternoon, the President went to Capitol Hill where he attended a Democratic leadership meeting on health care and met with members of the House Democratic Caucus. He then attended a fundraiser for Senator John Glenn at the Corcoran Gallery of Art.
The President announced the selection of 20 projects for negotiation as part of MARITECH, the administration's program to improve the international competitiveness of the U.S. shipbuilding industry.
May 26
The President announced that he has asked Administrator J. Brian Atwood, Agency for International Development, to be his personal representative and to lead a delegation to visit Ethiopia, Eritrea, and Kenya to examine life-threatening disaster conditions.
The President announced the appointment of Les Aspin as member and Chair of the President's Foreign Intelligence Advisory Board.
The President announced the appointment of Veronica Goldberg as a member of the President's Council on Physical Fitness and Sports.
May 27
In the morning, the President met with U.N. Secretary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali.
The President appointed Fred F. Woerner and F. Haydn Williams as members of the American Battle Monuments Commission.
  