
    Today, President Donald J. Trump announced his intent to nominate:
David B. Barlow of Utah, to serve as Judge on the U.S. District Court for the District of Utah.
David Barlow is a partner in the Salt Lake City office of Dorsey & Whitney LLP, where his practice focuses on representing companies in civil litigation and white-collar investigations. Before joining Dorsey, Mr. Barlow was a Vice President for Walmart's Health and Wellness businesses and in private practice with Sidley Austin LLP. Earlier in his career, Mr. Barlow served as United States Attorney for the District of Utah and as General Counsel and Chief Judiciary Counsel for United States Senator Mike Lee. Mr. Barlow received his B.A., summa cum laude, from Brigham Young University and his J.D. from Yale Law School.
Robert A. Molloy of the Virgin Islands, to serve as Judge on the U.S. District Court for the U.S. Virgin Islands. 
Robert Molloy is a Judge on the Superior Court of the Virgin Islands. Prior to taking the bench in 2013, Judge Molloy served as an Assistant Attorney General of Labor in the Virgin Islands Office of Collective Bargaining. Judge Molloy served as a law clerk to Judge Raymond L. Finch of the U.S. District Court of the Virgin Islands and earned a B.S. from Hampton University, his J.D. from American University Washington College of Law, and his M.B.A. from American University Kogod School of Business.
Kevin R. Sweazea of New Mexico, to serve as Judge on the U.S. District Court for the District of New Mexico.
Kevin Sweazea is a Magistrate Judge on the U.S. District Court for the District of New Mexico. Before being selected as a Magistrate Judge in 2017, Judge Sweazea served as a Judge on New Mexico's Seventh Judicial District Court since 2001, including ten years as Chief Judge. Early in his career, Judge Sweazea worked for various New Mexico law firms in private practice, where his practice included litigation, regulatory, and transactional matters. Judge Sweazea has also served as a member of the New Mexico Environmental Improvement Board and Socorro County Land Use Commission. Judge Sweazea earned his B.Acy. from New Mexico State University and his J.D. from Baylor University Law School.
Fernando L.G. Sablan of Guam, to serve as U.S. Marshal for Guam and the Commonwealth of Northern Mariana Islands.
Fernando Sablan is a former officer for the United States Customs and Border Protection in Guam, where he served until his retirement in 2017. Earlier in his career, Mr. Sablan served as an officer in the Guam Police Department for 22 years, earning the rank of Police Major. Mr. Sablan received his A.S., cum laude, from Guam Community College.
  