
    Today, Members of Congress Rosa DeLauro, John B. Larson, and Joe Courtney released the following statement endorsing Joe Biden for President:
"America faces an economic and health crisis like no other in our history. Joe Biden alone has the leadership, nerve, economic perspective, and humanity to bring America through this. He has battled for the middle class and working people his entire life, and that history makes him right for these times of crisis," said Congresswoman DeLauro.
"I've had the opportunity to work with Joe while he served in the United States Senate and as Vice President. Our nation needs him now more than ever. As he often says, we are fighting for the soul of our nation. I proudly endorse Joe Biden for President of the United States," said Congressman Larson.
"I enthusiastically endorse former Vice President Joe Biden for President whose long record of support for job training, education, veterans and first responders is a perfect fit for Eastern Connecticut. Last week I had a good talk with Tony Blinken who is heading up the Biden national security team and focused on the need to invest in a strong Navy, particularly in light of the 20% cut to shipbuilding in the Trump 2021 budget. Mr. Blinken noted Biden's position for a strong US presence in the Indo-Pacific region which inherently requires Seapower. I look forward to continuing that dialogue as the campaign and its platform develops," said Congressman Courtney.
Representatives DeLauro, Larson, and Courtney join a broad and diverse list of Connecticut leaders who have previously announced their support for Joe Biden, including Governor Ned Lamont, Senator Richard Blumenthal, Congressman Jim Himes, Attorney General William Tong, and more.
Biden has earned support from more than 130 U.S. Representatives and 30 U.S. Senators. Biden for President has previously announced more than 3,000 endorsements from national, state, and local leaders, including current and former U.S. senators and representatives, governors, state elected officials, community leaders, and national security professionals.
  