
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate eight individuals and designate one individual to serve in his Administration:
The President intends to nominate Larry Miles Dinger, of Iowa, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of the Fiji Islands and to serve concurrently and without additional compensation as Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Nauru, the Kingdom of Tonga, the Republic of Kiribati, and Tuvalu. A career member of the Senior Foreign Service, Ambassador Dinger currently serves as the State Department's Senior Advisor to the Naval War College in Newport, Rhode Island. He previously served as Chief of Mission in the Federated States of Micronesia. He has also served as Deputy Chief of Mission in Kathmandu. Earlier in his career, Ambassador Dinger served as Deputy Chief of Mission and Charge d'Affaires in Fiji. He earned his bachelor's degree from Macalester College, his J.D. from Harvard University and his master's degree from the National Defense University.
The President intends to nominate Terence Patrick McCulley, of Oregon, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Mali. A career member of the Senior Foreign Service, Mr. McCulley currently serves as Deputy Coordinator for Iraq Assistance in the Bureau of Near Eastern Affairs at the Department of State. He previously served as Deputy Chief of Mission at the United States Embassy in Tunisia. Mr. McCulley previously served in the same capacity in Dakar and Lome. Earlier in his career, he served as Officer-in-Charge of Zairian Affairs in the Office of Central African Affairs at the Department of State. Mr. McCulley earned his bachelor's degree from the University of Oregon.
The President intends to nominate Paul A. Trivelli, of Virginia, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Nicaragua. A career member of the Senior Foreign Service, Mr. Trivelli currently serves as Director of the Office of Policy Planning and Coordination for the Bureau of Western Hemisphere Affairs at the Department of State. He previously served as Director of the Office of Central American Affairs at the Department of State. Earlier in his career, Mr. Trivelli served as Deputy Chief of Mission in Tegucigalpa. He earned his bachelor's degree from Williams College and his master's degree from the University of Denver.
The President intends to nominate Anne Wagner, of Missouri, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. Ms. Wagner currently serves as Chairman of the Missouri Republican Party in Jefferson City, Missouri and as Republican Committeewoman in Lafayette Township, Missouri. She previously served as Co-Chairman of the Republican National Committee. Earlier in her career, Ms. Wagner worked in the private sector with Ralston Purina Company and Hallmark Cards, Inc., two Missouri-based companies. She earned her bachelor's degree from the University of Missouri-Columbia.
The President intends to nominate Michael E. Hess, of New York, to be Assistant Administrator (Bureau for Democracy, Conflict and Humanitarian Response) at the United States Agency for International Development. Mr. Hess currently serves as Vice President for Audit and Risk Review at Citigroup, Incorporated, where he previously served as Vice President of Banking. Having been in Active Duty and the Reserves for the United States Army, Mr. Hess was called back to Active Duty in Iraq and served as Deputy Chief of Staff for the Coalition Provisional Authority and as Humanitarian Coordinator for the Office of Reconstruction and Humanitarian Assistance. He previously served as Chief of the Liaison Office at the Kosovo Forces Headquarters and as Special Assistant to the Chief of Staff in the Office of the High Representative in Bosnia. Mr. Hess earned his bachelor's degree from the United States Military Academy, his first master's degree from Columbia University and his second master's degree from New York Un
The President intends to nominate Janice B. Gardner, of Virginia, to be Assistant Secretary for Intelligence and Analysis at the Department of the Treasury. Ms. Gardner currently serves as Deputy Assistant Secretary for Intelligence and Analysis at the Department of the Treasury. She previously served as Senior Intelligence Liaison Officer at the Department of the Treasury. Earlier in her career, Ms. Gardner served as Deputy Director of the Foreign Broadcast Information Service. She earned her bachelor's degree from Wake Forest University and her master's degree from American University.
The President intends to nominate Victoria Nuland, of Connecticut, to be the United States Permanent Representative on the Council of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, with the rank and status of Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary. A Senior Career Foreign Service Officer, Ms. Nuland most recently served as Principal Deputy National Security Advisor to the Vice President. Prior to this position, Ms. Nuland served as the United States Deputy Permanent Representative to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization in Brussels, Belgium. Earlier in her career, she served as Deputy to the Ambassador-At-Large for the New Independent States of the former Soviet Union at the Department of State. She earned her bachelor's degree from Brown University.
The President intends to nominate Daniel R. Stanley, of Kansas, to be Assistant Secretary of Defense for Legislative Affairs. Having served in the United States Navy for over twenty-five years, Commander Stanley currently serves as Acting Assistant Secretary of Defense and Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Legislative Affairs. He previously served as Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Senate Affairs. Earlier in his career, Commander Stanley served as Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Army for Manpower and Reserve Affairs. He earned his bachelor's degree from Empire State College.
The President intends to designate Gordon England, of Texas, to be Acting Deputy Secretary of Defense.
  