
    SACRAMENTO, Calif. - "We are coming to California," U.S. Sen. Bernie Sanders told a rally on Monday as he kicked off a home-stretch campaign push to win the state's treasure trove of delegates and help "take the political revolution" all the way to this summer's Democratic National Convention.
"The political establishment is getting nervous," Sanders told more than 16,000 people at a soccer stadium in California's capital city. "They should be getting very nervous because real change is coming."
Sanders already has won 18 primaries and caucuses and amassed more than 45 percent of all pledged delegates going into this summer's convention to Philadelphia. California will elect 475 pledged delegates on June 7. By then, Sanders could be coming off more wins in the final laps of the presidential primaries and caucuses.


    
  



    
  



    
  




    
  



    
  



    
  


"Nobody can predict the future but I think we've got a good shot to win in West Virginia and Kentucky and Oregon and after those three states we're coming to California and with your help we're going to win the biggest prize of all, the California primary," Sanders said.
"We are going to fight for every vote until June 14 and we are going to take the political revolution into the convention in Philadelphia," Sanders said.
At the Sacramento rally Sanders continued to detail what he called "profound differences of opinion" with Hillary Clinton.
Foremost among their differences, he said, is their approach to raising money to fund their campaigns. Sanders has relied on more than 7.3 million small-dollar donations averaging $27 apiece. Clinton has looked to big-dollar donors to fund her presidential campaign and to super PACs that take unlimited sums from special interests.

The Wall Street Journal reported on Monday that Clinton is relying more and more on Wall Street donors and financial-services executives. During the last reporting period, according to the analysis of records compiled by the nonpartisan Center for Responsive Politics, she raised another $4.2 million from Wall Street - more than any other candidate running for president combined. Clinton's super PAC has now received almost $19 million from Wall Street, more than any other industry.
Saying that "our current campaign finance system is corrupt and it is undermining American democracy," Sanders called for public funding of elections.

  