
    "I will take our message to the boardroom and I will take it to the classroom. I will take it to a gymnasium filled with friends and the inner-city church surrounded by skeptics." – Senator Tim Scott
CHARLESTON, SC –  Following his campaign announcement, Tim Scott traveled to Iowa and New Hampshire where he spoke to large crowds of teachers, business leaders, and voters. This weekend, Tim hosted a town hall at New Life Christian Fellowship Church in Goose Creek, South Carolina.
Additionally, Tim stopped today to reflect on the sacrifice of so many Americans on this Memorial Day.
Tim will be back in the Hawkeye State next week for a town hall with Congressman Feenstra in Council Bluffs, IA on Friday then Joni's annual Roast and Ride on Saturday.
            More than 300 Iowa caucus-goers turned out for Tim's town hall in Sioux City. The Senator also spoke with teachers and local leaders at a private Christian school that morning.
    Tim Scott met with business leaders and Republican women in Merrimack, Bedford, and Manchester, New Hampshire.
Tim hosted a town hall with a couple hundred voters at New Life Christian Fellowship Church in Goose Creek, South Carolina.Des Moines Register: "I like his direction, his belief in America," Carlson [an Iowa voter] said. "We need a change, back to the basics, and I can feel that's what his mission is."
The Union Leader: "He really makes a good first impression, that's for sure," Peters [of Amherst] said.
KWWL News 7: "When you are infused with hope and opportunity and you are taught that discipline, and perseverance, and grit matters. You rise above your circumstances and you start seeing a world filled with opportunities." -Senator Tim Scott at Sioux City Christian School
WCSC 5: "Hundreds of supporters and members of the community came together to hear from Tim Scott at New Life Christian Fellowship Church...Scott addressed questions from the audience throughout the evening with topics ranging from police reform and teacher pay to foreign policy and trade agreements."
  