
    Event to Kick-Off Efforts to Reach Out to Young Women
Hillary for President announced that 10-time Grammy winner, Kenny "Babyface" Edmonds, and American Idol finalist, Katharine McPhee, will perform for Hillary Clinton and a crowd of thousands at the kick-off of Club 44 in Washington, DC on June 6, 2007. Actress and comedian, Caroline Rhea, will serve as the emcee at this family-friendly event.
Club 44 is the campaign's effort to identify and mobilize young women voters who support Hillary Clinton for president. According to a study by the Center for Information & Research on Civic Learning & Engagement (CIRCLE), in 2004, 12.5 million women between ages 18-24 were eligible to vote.
"Young women can play a major role in deciding who our next president is," said McPhee. "It's important for all of us to get involved in the political process, and I'm happy to do my part by being part of this great event and performing for our next president, Hillary Clinton."
Other notable women will also be present at the event including: Senator Barbara Mikulski, Congresswoman Stephanie Tubbs-Jones, former Secretary of State Madeleine Albright, former vice presidential candidate Geraldine Ferraro, tennis legend Billie Jean King, human rights activist Dolores Huerta, and EMILY'S List president and Club 44 co-emcee, Ellen Malcolm.
"I am a huge fan of the women participating in this event and am excited to be part of this special evening," said Edmonds.
In addition to the live musical performances, Caroline Rhea will entertain the crowd with her signature wit and comedy. "I'm thrilled to be sharing the stage with all these amazing women," said Rhea. "This country is ready for change and Hillary is ready to lead as the next president."
The event is expected to take on a carnival theme with a moon bounce, food vendors, and other fun activities for the whole family. Local choirs and marching bands will also perform at the event and the campaign is expected to raffle off several prizes including a dinner with Hillary Clinton.
"I am honored to have Kenny 'Babyface' Edmonds, Katharine McPhee, Caroline Rhea, and all the other amazing women support me at the launch of Club 44," said Hillary Clinton. "I believe this presidential election is about taking our country in a new direction, and I have the experience to get this country back on the right track. I am confident that women will be at the forefront of our campaign to create real change in America."
WHAT: Clinton Launches "Club 44" Young Women's Outreach
WHEN: Wednesday, June 6, 2007, at 5:00 p.m. EDT
WHERE: 11th & H Street, NW, Washington, DC
NOTE: Tickets are available to the public online at www.hillaryclinton.com/club44 or by calling (703) 875-1275.
  