
    The following listing includes the President's daily schedule and other items of general interest as announced by the White House Press Office during the period covered by this issue. Events and announcements printed elsewhere in the issue are not included.
April 30
The President returned to the White House after a weekend stay at Camp David, Md.
May 1
The President met at the White House with:
—Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs;
—members of the 95th New Members Caucus of the Congress;
—Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare Joseph A. Califano, Jr.;
—Secretary of Commerce Juanita M. Kreps;
—Mrs. Carter, for lunch.
May 2
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Frank B. Moore, Assistant to the President for Congressional Liaison;
—the Democratic congressional leadership;
—C. Vann Woodward, historian from New Haven, Conn., Hamilton Jordan, Assistant to the President, and Joseph D. Duffey, Chairman of the National Endowment for the Humanities;
—James T. Mcintyre, Jr., Director of the Office of Management and Budget;
—J. C. Turner, president, and senior officials of the International Union of Operating Engineers.
The President transmitted to the Congress the 1977 annual report on mobile home construction and safety standards, prepared by the Department of Housing and Urban Development.
The President hosted a White House reception for members of the Southern Baptist Convention Mission Service Corps, and in the evening, he attended a dinner with the members at the Mayflower Hotel.
May 3
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Mr. Moore.
The President met with Prime Minister Takeo Fukuda in the Cabinet Room at the White House, and then hosted a working luncheon for the Prime Minister.
At the Cosmopolitan Hotel in Denver, the President met with Secretary of Agriculture Bob Bergland, Senator Floyd K. Haskell of Colorado, and four of the Senator's constituents. Following the meeting, the President met with Secretary of the Interior Cecil D. Andrus, Senator Haskell, and three of the Senator's constituents at the hotel.
While in Denver, the President had a dinner meeting with representatives from government, industry, and the academic community, to discuss solar energy. The dinner was held at Rick's Cafe, a former garage converted into a solar-heated restaurant.
May 4
The President met at the Cosmopolitan Hotel with Representative Timothy E. Wirth of Denver, Colorado, and a group of volunteers with area civic and charitable organizations.
Before departing Los Angeles International Airport for Portland, the President met on Air Force One with Representative Mark W. Hannaford of California.
May 5
While in Portland, the President had a breakfast meeting at the Benson Hotel with city and county officials from Alaska, Idaho, Oregon, and Washington. Governor Robert W. Straub of Oregon, Secretaries Andrus and Bergland, and several other Federal Government officials also participated in the meeting.
The President returned to the White House late in the evening.
  