
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
April 28
In the afternoon in the Map Room, the President provided a videotaped deposition for the ongoing trial in Little Rock, AR.
In the late evening, the President met with Prime Minister Shimon Peres of Israel in the Oval Office.
April 29
In the morning, the President traveled to Miami, FL. In the late evening, he departed for Washington, DC, arriving after midnight.
April 30
In an afternoon ceremony in the Oval Office, the President received diplomatic credentials from the following Ambassadors: Nagora Bogan of Papua New Guinea, Dato Dali Mahmud Hashim of Malaysia, Mahdi Ibrahim Mohamed of Sudan, Pedro Miguel Lamport Kelsall of Guatemala, Theogene Rudashingwa of Rwanda, Bhekh Bahadur Thapa of Nepal, Bulat K. Nurgaliyev of Kazakstan, Banny de Brum of the Marshall Islands, Jaakko Tapani Laajava of Finland, Naresh Chandra of India, and Dieudonne-Antoine Ganga of the Congo.
In the evening, the President and Hillary Clinton attended a dinner for supporters of the Franklin Delano Roosevelt Memorial Commission in the State Dining Room.
The President announced his intention to nominate Vicky A. Bailey as a member of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission.
May 1
The President announced his intention to appoint Peggy Weil Steine to the Advisory Committee on the Arts of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts.
The President announced his intention to appoint Jack W. Theimer to the Franklin Delano Roosevelt Memorial Commission.
The President announced his intention to nominate Avis T. Bohlen as Ambassador to Bulgaria, Anne W. Patterson as Ambassador to El Salvador, John Francis Maisto as Ambassador to Venezuela, and Marisa Lino as Ambassador to Albania.
May 2
In the morning, the President attended a memorial service in Potomac, MD, for David Ifshin, former general counsel for the President's 1992 campaign committee, who died April 30. In the early afternoon, he returned to Washington, DC.
May 3
In the morning, the President met with Secretary of Defense William Perry and military leaders in the Oval Office.
The President announced his intention to nominate Brooksley Elizabeth Born as Commissioner and Chair of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission.
The President announced his intention to reappoint Joel I. Ferguson, Dennis DeConcini, Harriet F. Woods, James B. Nutter, Sr., and Jerry M. Hultin as members of the Board of Directors of the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation.
The President announced his intention to nominate Jerry M. Melillo as Associate Director for Environment at the Office of Science and Technology Policy.
The President announced his intention to appoint Jeffrey Orseck as a member of the Panama Canal Consultative Committee.
  