
    The following listing includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the White House Press Office and not included elsewhere in this issue.
May 26
The President left Camp David, Md., and went by helicopter to the U.S.S. Nimitz, which was en route to Norfolk, Va.
May 27
The President met at the White House with:
—Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs;
—Frank B. Moore, Assistant to the President for Congressional Liaison;
—Charles L. Schultze, Chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers;
—Vice President Walter F. Mondale;
—Hedley W. Donovan, Senior Adviser to the President.
May 28
The President met at the White House with:
—David L. Aaron, Deputy Assistant for National Security Affairs;
—Mr. Moore;
—Geng Biao, Vice Premier of the State Council of the People's Republic of China, Leonard Woodcock, U.S. Ambassador to the People's Republic of China, Secretary of State Edmund S. Muskie, Secretary of Defense Harold Brown, Vice President Mondale, and Dr. Brzezinski.
The President announced that he has nominated Gen. David C. Jones for reappointment as Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff for an additional 2-year term. General Jones, 58, was appointed Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff in 1978. He was previously Chief of Staff of the United States Air Force.
The White House announced that at the invitation. of the President of the Republic, Alessandro Pertini, the President and Mrs. Garter will pay a state visit to Italy from June 19-21. In the course of the visit, the President will also meet with the President of the Council of Ministers Francesco Cossiga.
The White House announced that the President will participate in the Venice Summit on June 22-23. The summit, the sixth such meeting, will be attended by heads of state or government of Canada, the Federal Republic of Germany, France, Great Britain, Italy, Japan, and the United States, and the President of the Commission of the European Community. At the conclusion of his stay in Rome on the morning of June 21, President Garter will visit the Vatican and call on His Holiness, Pope John Paul II. On the invitation of the Presidency of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, the President will visit Yugoslavia on June 24-25. The President will then travel to Spain on June 2526 at the invitation of His Majesty Juan Carlos I. At the invitation of President Antonio dos Santos Ramalho Panes, the President will conclude his trip with a visit to Portugal on June 26. The President looks forward to the opportunity to exchange views with the many distinguished leaders he will meet during this trip.
May 29
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—the Democratic congressional leadership;
—Mr. Moore.
The White House announced that at the invitation of the President, His Majesty King Hussein of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan will pay an official visit to Washington on June 17-18. He will be joined by Her Majesty Queen Noor. A visit was proposed by the President and accepted in principle by King Hussein some time ago and dates have now been set. The two leaders last met in January 1978. Both leaders felt that this was a good time to exchange views on issues of interest to our two countries.
May 30
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Hamilton Jordan, Assistant to the President, Lloyd N. Cutler, Counsel to the President, Secretary Muskie, Secretary Brown, Mr. Donovan, and Dr. Brzezinski;
—Mr. Moore;
—leaders of consumer organizations.
The President transmitted to the Congress the 1979 annual report on the administration of the Radiation Control for Health and Safety Act.
  