
    Pool Reports by Megan, Specia 



Sent:
Reports:




May 5, 2023 13:05 BST

FLOTUS Pool Report No. 1 -- Arrival at No. 10 Downing Street
Good afternoon from Number 10 Downing Street in London. I will be your print pooler for this afternoon's events with Dr. Biden and Akshata Murthy, the wife of Prime Minister Rishi Sunak.  Dr. Biden arrived at No. 10 Downing Street just after 12:40 BST and was warmly greeted by Ms. Murty at the iconic black front door of the prime minister's residence in central London as members of the local and international press looked on. This is the first time that the pair have met.
Heavy rain has been intermittent this afternoonbut it eased to a light drizzle as Dr. Biden made her way to the entrance, shielded by a large clear umbrella and waved to the press. Ms. Murty greeted Dr. Biden with an embrace and a kiss on each cheek and said "Welcome, welcome!"
Dr. Biden was accompanied by her granddaughter, Finnegan Biden, who Ms. Murty also greeted enthusiastically while shaking her hand.
After pausing for a few photos outside, Ms. Murty then led the FLOTUS entourage into Downing Street for a meeting that was closed press.
From the Office of the First Lady:
REPORTABLE BACKGROUND FROM THE OFFICE OF THE FIRST LADY
FRIDAY, MAY 5, 2023 On Friday, May 5th, the First Lady will meet with Mrs. Akshata Murty at No. 10 Downing Street, and participate in events in support of veterans and education.
No. 10 Downing Street
In the afternoon, the First Lady will arrive at No. 10 Downing Street and greet Mrs. Akshata Murty. This arrival will be open press.
Then, the First Lady will meet with Mrs. Murty at No. 10 Downing Street. This will be the first time Dr. Biden and Mrs. Akshata Murty have met. This meeting will be closed press.
Afterwards, the First Lady and Mrs. Murty will meet with veterans in a health and wellness program called The Fighting Chance. This event at No. 10 Downing Street will be pooled press by U.K. hosts. The Fighting Chance is an organization in London that provides boxing training and employment support to veterans.
The First Lady and Mrs. Murty will be joined by:

U.S. Ambassador to the U.K. Jane Hartley
Minister Johnny Mercer, United Kingdom Minister for Veterans' Affairs
Imran Khalil, CEO and Founder, The Fighting Chance 
Shaheed Sambrano, Boxing Coach
George Burton, Senior Coach
Tanya Silchenstedt, Boxing Coach
Sunni Torgman, Boxing Coach 
Maurillia Simpson, Veteran
Royston Dawkins, Veteran
Tina Maria Fairbrass, Veteran
Alan Wilson, Veteran
Dave Fowler, Veteran
Garrick Ingham, Veteran and Veteran Outreach Worker for the Fighting Chance
Steve Morgan, Veteran

School Visit with Mrs. Murty
Later in the afternoon, the First Lady and Mrs. Murty will visit Charles Dickens Primary School where the students are participating in Coronation-related activities. This visit will be pooled press by U.K. hosts. The First Lady, Mrs. Murty, and Ambassador Hartley will greet with the school's headteacher Michael Eggleton and student leaders. They will visit students throughout the school, including stops at the school courtyard, community garden and a music classroom.
U.S. Embassy London
Afterwards, the First Lady will meet with Embassy staff and families at the U.S. Embassy London. May 5th is Foreign Affairs Day, a day that recognizes the work of diplomats and foreign affairs officials. This greet will be closed press.
Reception Hosted by His Majesty King Charles III
In the evening, the First Lady will attend a reception hosted by His Majesty King Charles III at Buckingham Palace. This visit will be pooled press by U.K. hosts. 


May 5, 2023 14:20 BST

FLOTUS Pool Report Number 2
After Dr. Biden and Ms. Murty held a private meeting, the pool was led into No. 10 Downing Street and upstairs into the Pillared room, named for its notable marble columns.
Jane Hartley, the U.S. Ambassador and Johnny Mercer, Britain's minister for Veterans' Affairs were already in the room where Dr. Biden and Ms. Murty would hold a meeting with veterans involved with The Fighting Chance, a London-based organization that provides boxing training and employment support to veterans.
Under a glittering chandelier, a group from Fighting Chance were sparring with one another — wearing boxing gloves of course — while the ambassador and minister looked on.
Looking down from the walls of the room, were portraits of Henry VII, Shakespeare and Ada Lovelace among others.
Dr. Biden and Ms. Murty entered around 1:20and were greeted by the ambassador and the minister.
"Yes, show me what you are doing," Dr. Biden said to the minister who showed her around the room and introduced her to many in the group.
"These are very special people," Mr. Mercer said and explained a bit about the program.
One of the women involved was Maurillia Simpson, a veteran and gold medal winner in the Invictus Games and is a wheelchair user. She was helped from her wheelchair to stand while meeting FLOTUS and Dr. Biden hugged her.
Because of the volume in the room (keep in mind people were boxing) it was difficult to hear what was being said. But both Ms. Murty and Dr. Biden thanked her repeatedly for her service.
Dr. Biden departed Downing Street at approximately 1:45 in a convoy en route to a local school.


May 5, 2023 14:42 BST

FLOTUS Pool report No. 3
Dr. Jill Biden and Ms. Murty arrived at Charles Dickens Primary School in the Borough area of London at around 1:55. The sun was shining as they walked into the school cafeteria and met with students wearing golden paper crowns and participating in Coronation-related activities.
After they greeted the students who were eating small sandwiches cut into tidy triangles, Dr. Biden sat down at the table between some of the students.
"I'm Jill Biden, nice to meet you!" she said as she greeted the students and their teacher enthusiastically. She told one of the teachers about her own role as an educator, before turning back to the students
"Hello! How are you? Are you excited about tomorrow?" she asked one young girl.
 "How was your lunch? Do you like that coronation sandwich?" she asked another.
The small girl beside her giggled.
"Nice to see you all, have fun tomorrow, I'll be thinking about all of you," she told the children seated around her.


May 5, 2023 14:58 BST

FLOTUS Pool report No. 4
The school's headteacher Michael Eggleton and student leaders accompanied Dr. Biden and Ms. Murty, Ambassador Hartley and Finnegan Biden as they visited with students and toured the school.
All four stopped by a music classroom where they sat among a group of students who performed a very beautiful version of "Lovely" by Billie Eilish.
Their teacher encouraged the students to "really dig in" as they played the strings driven rendition.
"Amazing," Ms. Murty exclaimed. "May I ask if those are the school's guitars or do they bring their own?"
The teacher told them the string instruments belong to the school.
"It was incredible," Dr. Biden remarked. "This was a treat, thanks for having us!"
"You made it look so easy," Ms. Murty added.
Dr. Biden asked one student who his favorite musician was, to which he replied, "Michael Jackson."
"Thank you for sharing your talent with us," Dr. Biden said, before the pool was ushered out of the room at around 2:30 p.m. local time.
FLOTUS, Ms. Murty, Finnegan Biden and the ambassador departed Charles Dickens Primary School at 2:35 p.m. in a convoy. The pool dispersed as Dr. Biden will head to the U.S. embassy to meet with staff and families there which is closed to the press.
That's all from me as your pooler today.
(Small correction from pool report 2 — portrait was of Henry VIII, pardon my Roman numerals.)



  