
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate six individuals, appoint two individuals and designate three individuals to serve in his Administration.
The President intends to nominate David F. Girard-diCarlo, of Pennsylvania, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Austria. Mr. Girard-diCarlo currently serves as Chairman of Blank Rome, LLP. Prior to this, he served as a Managing Partner at Blank Rome, LLP. Earlier in his career, he served as a board chairman and chairman of the Executive Committee of the Greater Philadelphia Chamber of Commerce. Mr. Girard-diCarlo received his bachelor's degree from St. Joseph's University and his JD from Villanova University.
The President intends to nominate Patrick J. Durkin, of Connecticut, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation for the remainder of a three-year term expiring 12/17/09.
The President intends to nominate Michael B. Bemis, of Mississippi, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Tennessee Valley Authority, for the remainder of a five-year term expiring 05/18/13.
The President intends to nominate the following individuals to be Members of the Board of Trustees of the James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation:
John J. Faso of New York, (Public Member), for the remainder of a six-year term expiring 05/29/13
Joe Manchin III of West Virginia, (CEO of a State), for the remainder of a six-year term expiring 11/05/12
Harvey M. Tettlebaum of Missouri, (Public Member), for the remainder of a six-year term expiring 10/03/12
The President intends to appoint Joseph Cascio, of Maryland, to be Federal Environmental Executive of the Environmental Protection Agency. Mr. Cascio currently serves as a Senior Associate at Booz Allen Hamilton. Prior to this, he served as Vice President of the International Resources Group, Limited. Earlier in his career, he served as Vice President of the Global Energy and Technology Foundation. Mr. Cascio received his bachelor's degree from Polytechnic University of New York, his master's degree from the University of Southern California, and his JD from Fordham University.
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the President's Committee on the National Medal of Science, for the remainder of a three-year terms expiring 12/31/10:
Gary S. Becker, of Illinois
Lucille Shapiro, of California
Robert J. Zimmer, of Illinois
The President intends to designate Matthew W. Friedrich, of Texas, to be Acting Assistant Attorney General (Criminal Division).
The President intends to designate Jason J. Fichtner, of Virginia, to be Acting Deputy Commissioner of Social Security.
The President intends to designate Linda P.B. Katehi of Illinois, to be Chairman of the President's Committee on the National Medal of Science.
  