
    Over 500 Women Across the Mountain State Lend Their Support to Hillary
(Charleston, WV) - The Clinton Campaign today announced a list of over 500 West Virginia Women for Hillary from across the Mountain state who are helping make Hillary Clinton successful in the upcoming primary.
"Hillary Clinton has shown a long commitment to solving the challenges facing West Virginia families," said AFT-West Virginia President Judy Hale. "From working to get affordable health care for all, to strengthening public education, to creating stable, good paying jobs here at home, Hillary Clinton is the candidate who is ready to lead on day one and find real solutions for America."
The Clinton campaign will hold a West Virginia Women for Hillary phone bank and sign-making party tonight at 6:30 p.m. at the Charleston Headquarters, 191 Summers Street, Charleston, WV in advance of Hillary Clinton's trip tomorrow. The Fairmont for Hillary headquarters will also hold a West Virginia Women for Hillary phone bank at 6:00 p.m. tonight.
West Virginia Women for Hillary includes: Belinda Biafore, Vice Chair, West Virginia State Democratic Executive Committee Bonnie Brown, Member, House of Delegates (30th District) Marge Burke, Former member, House of Delegates Barbara Core, Circuit Clerk, Marion County Barbara Evans Fleischauer, Member, House of Delegates (44th District) Jean Ford, Mayor of Williamstown Judy Hale, President, AFT-West Virginia Elaine Harris, International Representative, Communications Workers of America Barbara Hatfield, Member, House of Delegates (30th District), Registered Nurse Linda Longstreth, Member, House of Delegates (43rd District) Cleo Mathews, Mayor of Hinton Marlene Middleton, WV Air National Guard, Ret. (Persian Gulf) Fayette County Teresa Kay Miller, Former Morgantown City Council Member Charlotte Moreland, Former Deputy Staff Director, U.S. Senate Committee on Veterans Marie Prezioso, DNC National Committeewoman Phyllis Rutledge, Former Speaker Pro Tempore of the West Virginia House of Delegates Jenny Selin, Morgantown City Council Member Libby Stout, WWII Veteran, 110th Women's Army Corps. Full list available upon request.
  