
    >Office of National Drug Control Policy
Today, the White House Office of National Drug Control Policy (ONDCP) released a report on the President's Commission on Combating Drug Addiction and the Opioid Crisis.
"From day one, our mission has been the same – to save more of our family members, friends, and neighbors dying from drug overdoses. Over the past year, the Trump Administration has made record investments and brought together the entire federal government to tackle America's addiction crisis. The President's Commission helped shape and inform the strategy we are implementing, and we have already begun to see significant progress because of these efforts," ONDCP Director James Carroll said.
The report outlines the progress the Trump Administration has made to curb addiction and tackle drug demand and the opioid crisis through prevention, interdiction, and treatment, including:

The Trump Administration's ad campaign, conducted in partnership with Truth Initiative and the Ad Council, has over 1 billion views, with 58% of young adults ages 18-24 aware of these ads.
From the President's inauguration in January 2017 to February 2019, initial market data suggests that the total amount of opioids being prescribed monthly (by retail and mail-order pharmacies) has dropped by 34%.
Under President Trump's watch, the Department of Justice is prosecuting more fentanyl traffickers than ever before – 40 times more in FY 2018 than in FY 2016.
To stop the flood of deadly fentanyl into our communities, President Trump secured a commitment from China to stop trafficking Chinese fentanyl, and has successfully called over 130 countries to join our efforts against drug trafficking.
Since the President took office, the number of patients receiving buprenorphine (one form of medication-assisted treatment) increased 23%, while the number of prescriptions for naltrexone (another form of medication-assisted treatment) increased 42%.
From January 2017 through February 2019, the number of naloxone prescriptions dispensed has increased 484%.

Thanks to these and other efforts from across the Trump Administration, there has been an estimated 5% decrease in reported provisional overdose deaths for the 12-month period ending in September 2018.
More highlights and the full Report can be accessed HERE.
  