
    Pool Reports by Nadia Bilbassy, Alarabiya 



Sent:
Reports:




May 30, 2023 20:36 EDT

FLOTUS pool report 1: trip to the Middle East
It's my pleasure to be your print pooler on this FLOTUS official trip to the Middle East .
Mortocade is now rolling from the South Lawn to JBA , President Biden wearing a white shirt and no jacket spotted with few staffers, I presume saying goodby to the First Lady .
Your pooler hasnt seen FLOTUS yet .


May 30, 2023 20:52

FLOTUS pool #2 Middle East trip
FLOTUS emerged from the motorcade wearing a black suit, long black skirt, she walked to the plane and was greeted at the top of the stairs by her sister Bonny Jacobs who is traveling with her along with her daughter Ashley.
The two ladies exchanged hugs. We are taking off shortly. I will update you from Shannon airport in Dublin.


May 30, 2023 21:21

FLOTUS Pool #3 Middle East Trip
REPORTABLE BACKGROUND FROM THE OFFICE OF THE FIRST LADY:
DAY 1 OF 7: TUESDAY, MAY 30TH
From Tuesday, May 30th through Monday, June 5th, 2023, First Lady Jill Biden will travel to Jordan, Egypt, Morocco, and Portugal to strengthen the United States' partnerships and advance our shared priorities in the region.
Tonight, the First Lady will depart Washington, D.C. at Joint Base Andrews for Amman, Jordan. This departure will be covered by the traveling print pooler.
There will be a brief fuel stop in Shannon, Ireland.
Overview of Dr. Biden's Visit to Jordan, Egypt, Morocco, and Portugal:
The First Lady's engagements will focus on the empowerment of youth around the world. Dr. Biden believes that supporting youth across the world is critical to our common future, with education and empowerment at the heart of it.
While in Amman, Jordan, the First Lady will attend the wedding of His Royal Highness Crown Prince Al Hussein bin Abdullah II and Miss Rajwa Khalid Al Seif at the Zahran Palace. President Joe Biden and the First Lady have a longstanding friendship with King Abdullah II and Queen Rania Al Abdullah.
While in Egypt and Morocco, the First Lady will meet with women and youth, and highlight U.S. investments aimed at supporting education initiatives and increasing economic opportunity.
In Portugal, the First Lady will mark the 60th anniversary of the U.S. State Department's Art in Embassies program, highlighting the important role of the arts in our cultural diplomacy efforts around the world.
Dr. Biden's Previous Travel and Engagements in the Region:
As First Lady, this will be Dr. Biden's second visit to the African continent and her first visit to the Middle East. As Second Lady, Dr. Biden visited Jordan twice and once for Egypt, Morocco, and Portugal.
Previous travel to the African continent:

February 2023: Most recently, as First Lady, Dr. Biden visited Namibia and Kenya to strengthen the United States' partnerships on the African continent, and advance our shared priorities in the region. Dr. Biden's engagements focused on the empowerment of women and youth, efforts to address drought and food insecurity, and promoting our shared democratic values. The visit followed the U.S.-Africa Leaders Summit late last year where Dr. Biden hosted a two-day spousal program. This was Dr. Biden's first visit to Namibia and third visit to Kenya. 

Previous travel to Jordan:

March 2016: Then-Vice President Biden and Dr. Biden traveled to Jordan as part of a five-day trip to the Middle East. Dr. Biden visited the Zaatari Refugee Camp, home to 80,000 people and a symbol of the long-running Syrian refugee crisis. Dr. Biden also visited the Al Fadeen Elementary School in Mafraq, Jordan, in which a large number of refugee students were enrolled at the time. 
March 2010: Then-Vice President Biden and Dr. Biden traveled to Amman, Jordan, during their six-day trip to the Middle East and visited the ancient city of Petra. 

Previous travel to Egypt:

June 2010: Then-Vice President Biden and Dr. Biden visited Sharm el-Sheikh, Egypt, along their trip to Kenya and South Africa. During the visit to Sharm el-Sheikh, they met with then-President Hosni Mubarak and then-First Lady Suzanne Mubarak. 

Previous travel to Morocco:

November 2014: Then-Vice President Biden and Dr. Biden traveled to Morocco as part of a five-day trip to Morocco, Ukraine, and Turkey. Dr. Biden delivered remarks at the Global Entrepreneurship Summit Women's Day in Marrakech, Morocco, where she highlighted the importance of decreasing gender gaps in health, education, politics, and business. 

Previous travel to Portugal:

July 2016: Dr. Biden traveled to Lisbon, Portugal after a three-country visit to Ethiopia, Malawi, and Niger. During the visit, Dr. Biden met with then-U.S. Ambassador to Portugal Robert Sherman and the U.S. Embassy team. Dr. Biden also visited the Torre de Belem and Jeronimos Monastery.




May 31, 2023 10:51 IST

FLOTUS Pool #4 Middle East Trip
Good Morning from Shannon airport in Shannon, Ireland. We are stopping for around an hour for refueling. We haven't seen Dr Biden except for a brief glimpse during take off, she was chatting with few guests on the plane .


May 31, 2023 11:27 IST

FLOTUS Pool #5 Middle East Trip
We are taking off now on our way to Amman, Jordan, the trip duration is around 5 hours.
While in Amman, the First Lady will attend the wedding of His Royal Highness Crown Prince Al Hussein bin Abdullah II and Miss Rajwa Khalid Al Seif at the Zahran Palace.
President Joe Biden and the First Lady have a longstanding friendship with King Abdullah II and Queen Rania Al Abdullah


May 31, 2023 19:42 EEST

FLOTUS Pool #6 Middle East Trip
Spotted on the plane is Paul Pelosi, husband of former House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, he was chatting with other guests and seems to be in good spirits. Also on the plane is Grace Nelson wife of former Senator Bill Nelson, both are attending the Royal wedding and will drop off after Jordan segment of the trip.
Also, a couple of ladies at the duty-free cashier told me to tell FLOTUS that she is welcome anytime in Ireland and expressed disappointment for not seeing her when we stopped in Shannon for refueling.
Plane touched down at 6:32 pm Jordan time, a red carpet with the royal guards lining both sides of the red carpet were waiting for the First Lady to disembark.
FLOTUS walked down the plane waving for few dignitaries waiting to greet her , She then exchanged few words with them , the longest with the Jordanian lady who won the courage award .
DAY 2 OF 7: WEDNESDAY, MAY 31ST
Arrival in Amman, Jordan
In the afternoon, the First Lady will arrive at Marka International Airport in Amman, Jordan. This arrival will be covered by the traveling print pooler.
Upon arrival, the First Lady will be greeted by Jordanian officials, U.S. officials, and the 2023 International Women of Courage Award recipient Hadeel Abdel Aziz:

Her Excellency Ms. Kholoud Al-Saqqaf, Minister of Investment of Jordan
Dania Al Jurf, Director of Protocol, Office of Her Majesty Queen Rania, Royal Hashemite Court 
Ambassador Henry Wooster, U.S. Ambassador to the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan 
Dr. Laura Dallman, Spouse of U.S. Ambassador Henry Wooster 
Rohit Nepal, Deputy Chief of Mission, U.S. Embassy Amman 
Colonel Robert Gillespie, Senior Defense Office / Defense Attaché to the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan  
Chief Master Sergeant Anthony Augustine, Jr., Operations Coordinator, U.S. Defense Attaché, U.S. Embassy Amman 
Hadeel Abdel Aziz, Recipient of the 2023 U.S. Department of State International Women of Courage Award 

About the International Women of Courage Award  This year, in March, the First Lady and Secretary of State Antony J. Blinken hosted the 17th annual International Women of Courage (IWOC) Award Ceremony. The ceremony took place at the White House for the first time in the award's history. Ms. Abdel Aziz was a recipient of the International Women of Courage Award.
The annual IWOC Award recognizes women from around the globe who have demonstrated exceptional courage, strength, and leadership in advocating for peace, justice, human rights, gender equity and equality, often at great personal risk and sacrifice. Since 2007, the Department of State has recognized more than 180 women from over 80 countries.
About Hadeel Abdel Aziz  Human rights activist Hadeel Abdel Aziz is a frontline defender of Jordan's most marginalized, including juveniles, refugees, migrants, and survivors of sexual and gender-based violence. As founder of the Justice Center for Legal Aid (JCLA), a leading legal aid provider in Jordan, Ms. Abdel Aziz has built a nationwide network of clinics which provide services to thousands of vulnerable individuals every year. Ms. Abdel Aziz and JCLA have played a critical role in advocating against arbitrary detention, including detention of women "for their own protection" from so-called honor crimes. Ms. Abdel Aziz has been a consistent advocate for access to justice for all Jordanians, and a constructive partner with government institutions. Over more than a decade of leadership, she has demonstrated courage in presenting a clear-eyed vision for how a fairer justice system can strengthen Jordan.


May 31, 2023 20:02 EEST

FLOTUS pool #7 Middle East trip
Jordanians lined up the streets of Amman, some were waving and many were taking photos of FLOTUS motorcades, as we were heading towards mid town we could hear groups of people having street parties in anticipation of the royal wedding, there also some security vans. We saw huge placards of the Royal couples hanging from different building congratulating Crown Prince Al Houssein and Miss Rajwa AlSeif including the embassies of Kuwait and Oman.
We are now at the hotel, there is no more public events for tonight.
Have a restful evening.
Additional information about Prince Al Houssein Bin Abdullah II
BIOGRAPHY: HIS ROYAL HIGHNESS CROWN PRINCE AL HUSSEIN BIN ABDULLAH II
Born in Amman on June 28, 1994, His Royal Highness Crown Prince Al Hussein bin Abdullah II is the eldest son of Their Majesties King Abdullah II and Queen Rania Al Abdullah and the 42nd direct descendant of Prophet Mohammad. The Crown Prince has one brother, His Royal Highness Prince Hashem, and two sisters, Their Royal Highnesses Princess Iman and Princess Salma.
On July 2, 2009, a royal decree was issued naming His Royal Highness the Crown Prince of Jordan. Since then, His Royal Highness has also assumed the role of Regent to His Majesty King Abdullah II on several occasions.
EducationCrown Prince Al Hussein completed his high school education at King's Academy, Jordan, graduating in 2012. His Royal Highness went on to study International History at Georgetown University in Washington, D.C, where he graduated with a bachelor's degree in 2016.
Military ServiceHis Royal Highness holds the rank of Captain in the Jordan Armed Forces – Arab Army, which he joined on June 28, 2012. Following in the footsteps of Their Majesties King Abdullah II and the late King Hussein bin Talal, His Royal Highness also went on to graduate from the Royal Military Academy Sandhurst in the United Kingdom in 2017.
The Crown Prince has received multi-qualification military training in several branches, including military intelligence, paratroopers, and armor. Alongside his fellow members of the Jordan Armed Forces, he has taken part in various courses and specialized field exercises in Jordan and abroad in the United States, the United Kingdom, Austria, France, and the United Arab Emirates, in programs spanning Basic Counter Terrorism CT Skills, CT, Airborne, Maritime CT, Diving, Motor Boat Driving, and Black Hawk Aircraft Training. Additionally, His Royal Highness has a solo flight certification.
The Crown Prince has served as a Mechanized Infantry Platoon Leader, and then Mechanized Company Deputy Commander, within the Prince Al Hussein bin Abdullah II 1st Royal Mechanized Battalion. His current position is Tank Company Deputy Commander in the 2nd Royal Armored Battalion.
Honors and Orders· Great Arab Revolt Centennial badge (Jordan)· Order of King Abdullah II ibn Al Hussein for Excellence of the First Class (Jordan) · 1st Class of the King Hamad Order of the Renaissance (Bahrain)· Knight Grand Cross of the Royal Norwegian Order of St. Olav (Norway)· The Grand Cordon of the Order of Al Istiqlal (Jordan)· Order of the State Centennial (Jordan)· The Royal Order of The Polar Star - Commander Grand Cross (Sweden)
Official Duties and ResponsibilitiesFollowing the example of his father King Abdullah II and the Hashemites, Crown Prince Al Hussein is committed to maintaining a strong relationship with his fellow Jordanians across the country by accompanying the King on visits throughout the Kingdom, and partaking in His Majesty's official and military engagements both locally and abroad.
In addition to regional and international working trips, His Royal Highness regularly visits Jordan's governorates to stay close to the Jordanian public. A strong advocate for youth, the Crown Prince consistently emphasizes the significance of technical education and the advancement of key sectors, such as information technology and tourism.
Participation in International ForumsActive on the international stage, His Royal Highness has represented Jordan at multiple international forums, including, most prominently, the United Nations Security Council and the United Nations General Assembly. In April 2015, His Royal Highness chaired a Security Council open debate on the role of youth in countering violent extremism and promoting peace, making him the youngest person ever to chair a meeting at the council.
After the meeting, and under the direction of His Royal Highness, Jordan hosted a Global Forum on Youth, Peace, and Security in August 2015, where the Amman Youth Declaration was presented. In December 2015, His Royal Highness' efforts culminated in the UN Security Council's adoption of Resolution 2250 on Youth, Peace, and Security, the first of its kind to call for empowering youth to participate in global conflict resolution.
Additionally, on May 21, 2017, Crown Prince Al Hussein acted as deputy to His Majesty King Abdullah II at the 72nd Session of the United Nations General Assembly, where he delivered Jordan's address and spoke about the country's positive global contributions, the importance of education reform, and the need to support young entrepreneurs.
The Crown Prince FoundationEstablished in 2015, the Crown Prince Foundation (CPF) stems from Crown Prince Al Hussein's commitment to building a bright future for Jordan's youth and his belief that, armed with the right opportunities and skills, young men and women possess boundless potential to contribute to the development of their nation. Guided by the vision "Capable youth for an aspiring Jordan," the foundation aims to inspire and encourage young people across the Kingdom to serve their communities, assume leadership roles, and pursue and benefit from available socioeconomic opportunities.
CPF focuses on three foundational areas – Employability and Entrepreneurship; Leadership; and Citizenship – and oversees more than 10 related initiatives and programs covering a variety of sectors. In addition to its offices in Amman, its four locations in Ma'an, Aqaba, Zarqa, and Mafraq governorates serve as open platforms for meaningful collaboration, bringing together youth, civil society organizations, public and private institutions, and other stakeholders working across the Kingdom's governorates.
CPF initiatives and programs include Al Hussein Technical University, online platform for facilitating philanthropy, Naua, the National Youth Engagement and Volunteering Program Nahno, TechWorks innovation platform, One Million Jordanian Coders Initiative, the Crown Prince Award for Best Government Application, Qusai Initiative for sports therapy, Haqiq youth leadership initiative, the Youth Excellence Fund, and youth leadership Al Hussein Fellowship program.
Interests and HobbiesIn his spare time, His Royal Highness regularly enjoys practicing various sports, including football, diving, and archery. He also enjoys riding motorbikes and adventure sports.



\r\n
  