
    WASHINGTON, DC – Today, President Barack Obama nominated Debra M. Brown, Pamela L. Reeves and Elizabeth A. Wolford for District Court judgeships.
"These individuals have demonstrated the talent, expertise, and fair-mindedness Americans expect and deserve from their judicial system," said President Obama. "I am grateful for their willingness to serve and confident that they will apply the law with the utmost impartiality and integrity."
Debra M. Brown: Nominee for the United States District Court for the Northern District of Mississippi
Debra M. Brown has been a shareholder at the law firm of Wise Carter Child & Caraway, P.A. in Jackson since 2012, where she handles a wide variety of commercial litigation matters before both federal and state courts. Previously, she worked at Phelps Dunbar LLP for more than 14 years. Brown received her J.D. in 1997 from the University of Mississippi School of Law and her B.Arch. in 1987 from Mississippi State University. Between college and law school, Brown worked as an architect in the Washington, D.C. area. From 2003 to 2004, she served as President of the Mississippi Women Lawyers Association.
Pamela L. Reeves: Nominee for the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Tennessee
Pamela L. Reeves has worked at the law firm of Reeves, Herbert & Anderson, P.A. in Knoxville since 2002, where she has both mediation and litigation practices concentrating on employment and contract matters. Prior to forming Reeves, Herbert & Anderson, she spent approximately 14 years at the law firm previously known as Watson, Hollow & Reeves. She began her legal career as an associate attorney at the law firms Morrison, Morrison, Tyree & Dickinson, from 1985 to 1987, and Griffin, Burkhalter, Cooper & Reeves, from 1979 to 1985. Reeves received her J.D. in 1979 from the George C. Taylor College of Law at the University of Tennessee and her B.A. with highest honors in 1976 from the University of Tennessee. From 1998 to 1999, she was the first woman to serve as President of the Tennessee Bar Association.
Elizabeth A. Wolford: Nominee for the United States District Court for the Western District of New York
Elizabeth A. Wolford is a partner at The Wolford Law Firm LLP in Rochester, New York, where she concentrates her practice in the areas of commercial, employment, and personal injury litigation before both federal and state courts. Wolford joined the law firm upon graduating from law school. She received her J.D. in 1992 from the University of Notre Dame Law School and her B.A. in 1989 from Colgate University. Throughout her legal career, Wolford has been actively involved in the Rochester legal community, including serving as President of the Foundation of the Monroe County Bar from 2010 to 2012 and as President of the Greater Rochester Association for Women Attorneys from 2003 to 2004.
  