
    Pool Reports by Max A. Cherney, Silicon Valley Business Journal 



Sent:
Reports:




May 22, 202310:56 PDT

VP Travel Report #1 / wheels down
VP landed at Moffett Federal Airfield at 10:53 am local time.


May 22, 2023 11:27 PDT

VP Travel Report #2/ moffett field
Vpotus exited af2 to blue skies and a slight breeze at 11:05 am and greeted a local delegation, she spent several minutes talking with them. At 11:09 the VP walked to a cheering crowd behind fences and led a rendition of "happy birthday" to Shana. Posed for selfies with the folks at the rope line and departed at 11:21am for Applied Materials campus in Sunnyvale.
Local delegates who greeted the VP.Mayor Alison Hicks (D-Mountain View, CA)- Mayor Lisa Gillmor (D-Santa Clara, CA) - Mayor Larry Klein (D-Sunnyvale, CA)- Eugene Tu, Director, NASA Ames Center Director


May 22, 2023 12:25 PDT

VP Travel Report #3 / applied materials, roundtable with business leaders
Vp arrived at applied materials in Sunnyvale at 11:32am.
At 11:52 am VP made remarks at a roundtable of business leaders inside Applied Materials' office in Sunnyvale (list of attendees below). VP discussed U.S. and administration commitment to the U.S. semiconductor industry; "for 60 years the U.S. has been a leader in chip r&d." Discussed the importance of talking about jobs in the chip industry that don't need advanced degrees. Emphasized the importance of public-private partnerships, and the private sector's expertise. VP said that in the past year there has been more than $500 billion of commitments from the private sector. After roughly seven minutes, the press were ushered out for a "working meeting," the VP said.
Business leaders at the round table and background from the White House:
- Mark Liu, Chairman, Taiwan Semiconduction Manufacturing Company (TSMC)- Naga Chandraseksran, Senior Vice President, Micron Technology- Sanjay Natarajan, Senior Vice President, Logic Technology Development, Intel- Jaihyuk Song, R&D President, Samsung Electronics- Aart De Geus, CEO, Synopsis- Larry Smith, President, TEL-US (Tokyo Electron)- Wei Jen Lo, Senior Vice President and Head of R&D, Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company (TSMC)- Ilsup Jin, Chief Technology Officer, SK Hynix- Charlie Kawwas, President of Semiconductor Solutions,Broadcom- Ishi Maru, Chief Technology Officer, Rapidus- Atiq Bajwa, Chief Technology Officer, Ampere- Ed Kaste, Senior Vice President of Product Management, GlobalFoundries- Ivo Bolsens, Senior Vice President, Head R&D, AMD- Rani Borkar, Corporate Vice President and Head of Silicon R&D, Microsoft- Susan Feindt, Senior Fellow and Director of Physical Technology Strategy, Analog Devices- Mukesh Khare, Vice President of Research, IBM- PR Chidi, Fellow and Vice President of Engineering, Qualcomm- Ahmad Bahai, Senior Vice President and Chief Technology Officer, Texas Instruments- Siva Sivaram, President, Western Digital
On Background from a White House Official:Today, Monday, May 22nd, Vice President Harris will visit Applied Materials in Sunnyvale, California to highlight how the Biden-Harris Administration's Investing in America agenda is catalyzing historic private sector investments in semiconductor manufacturing and research and development to support American innovation, create jobs, and advance America's competitiveness.
As part of a semiconductor R&D summit convened by Applied Materials, a leading producer of chip-making equipment for the semiconductor industry, the Vice President Harris will meet with executives from major U.S. and international semiconductor manufacturing, R&D, and supply chain companies, to discuss the value of investing in America while creating American jobs, and revitalizing American manufacturing and R&D.
After, she will deliver remarks at a ceremony celebrating the announcement of Applied Materials investment of up to $4 billion in a new research and development facility, dubbed the EPIC Center, where it will design the next-generation of tools for semiconductor manufacturing, including in collaboration with leading chipmakers who will ultimately use those tools in their factories. Her remarks will be livestreamed at 1:30PM PT (4:30PM ET) at www.whitehouse.gov/live. 
Additional Background

In just over nine months since President Biden signed the CHIPS and Science Act into law, private companies have announced nearly $140 billion in investments in semiconductor production, supply chains, and R&D to be made over the next decade. And, the Department of Commerce has already received 300 Statements of Interest from potential applicants interested in applying for CHIPS incentives, covering projects in 37 states and all parts of the semiconductor ecosystem.
Over the last two years, the Vice President has met with semiconductor executives in Japan and Singapore to encourage investment in American innovation and manufacturing. Some of those same companies, including Micron, TSMC, and GlobalFoundries have recently made major U.S. investments and will be represented at the event.




May 22, 2023 13:50 PDT

VP Travel Report #4 / applied materials outdoor remarks
At 1:15 pm Vpotus was introduced by an Applied Materials process engineer and took the stage outdoors under a temporary tent. Vpotus spoke for about 15 minutes. The speech touched on the importance of semiconductors in the modern and future economy, and US leadership. Vpotus discussed the administrations efforts to through the CHIPS and Science Act to invest in chip research and development and new factory construction in the US. After her remarks Vpotus signed a cornerstone. The vp motorcade left Applied Materials at 1:38pm. Quotes from the speeches TK.
A White House staffer emailed this background material below
On background from a WH Official 
Following the roundtable, the Vice President met with Applied Materials employees, Yann Lapnet and Satomi Angelika Murayama. Gary Dickerson, CEO of Applied Materials joined the greet.


May 22, 2023 14:07 PDT

VP Travel Report #5 / wheels up
Vpotus wheels up from Moffett Federal Airfield at 2:05pm.



\r\n
  