
    Pool Reports by Kadia Goba, BuzzFeed News



Sent:
Reports:




May 1, 202011:06 

In town pool report #1
Good morning. I'll be your White House pooler today. Please note the addition of the 2pm briefing with new press secretary Kayleigh McEnany to the schedule.
If you have questions for the first press briefing with a White House press secretary in more than a year, send them over.



May 1, 202012:56 

In town pool report #2 Lunch Lid
A lunch lid was called at 12:53 until the press briefing at 2pm.



May 1, 202014:12 

In town pool report #3 WH Press Sec Briefing
White House Press Secretary Kayleigh McEnany began today's briefing at 2:11.
Feel feee to tune in and I'll try to ask some of your questions you sent over.



May 1, 202015:18 

In town pool report #4 Readout with President of Portugal & POTUS
>From the White House -- A readout of a phone call between President Trump and President Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa of Portugal:
President Donald J. Trump spoke with President Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa of Portugal. President Trump and President Rebelo de Sousa discussed the latest efforts to combat the coronavirus pandemic and reopen global economies. President Trump commended President Rebelo de Sousa for his strong response to help stop the spread of the virus. The leaders also discussed critical bilateral and global issues.



May 1, 202015:43 

In town pool report #5 Call to Oval w/ POTU & Gilead Sciences
Pool called to gaggle in the Oval around 3:35. He's joined by VP Pence and, Dr Birx and others.
Will update with quotes but they're speaking to the work of Gilead with regards to HIV and Hepatitis C



May 1, 202016:09 

In town pool report #6 POTUS remdesivir announcement
POTUS spoke from 3:36 to 4:01.
Check quotes against transcript.
POTUS: I'm pleased to announce that Gilead now has an E wave from the FDA for remdesivir. And you know what that is because that's been the then the hot thing, also in the papers and in the media for the last little while — an important treatment for hospitalized coronavirus patients.
And it's something. I spoke with Dr Khan and Dr. Fauci spoke with Debra [Birx] about it and it's really a very promising situation. We've been doing work with teams at the FDA and NIH and Gilead had poor spearheading this public private partnership to make this happen very quickly.
Birx: I think this really illustrates what can happen in such a short time. For the first case, that was diagnosed in the United States to now, our first step forward with a therapeutic in less than 90 days.



May 1, 202016:27 

In town pool report #6a TYPO Fixed: POTUS remdesivir announcement
POTUS: I'm pleased to announce that Gilead now has an EUA from the FDA for remdesivir. And you know what that is because that's been the hot thing in the papers and in the media for the last little while — an important treatment for hospitalized coronavirus patients.
And it's something. I spoke with Dr Khan and Dr. Fauci and I spoke with Debra [Birx] about it and it's really a very promising situation. We've been doing work with the teams at the FDA and NIH and Gilead for spearheading this public private partnership to make this happen very quickly.
Birx: I think this really illustrates what can happen in such a short time. For the first case, that was diagnosed in the United States to now, our first step forward with a therapeutic in less than 90 days.



May 1, 202016:42 

In town pool report #7 Background for Blue Room
Here's background from the White House on the Presidential Recognition Ceremony: Hard Work, Heroism, and Hope which was supposed to start at 4pm.
Pool is in place and waiting for it to start.
Today, President Donald J. Trump will deliver remarks in the Blue Room highlighting the hard work, heroism, and hope that Americans, from all walks of life, have demonstrated during the Coronavirus Pandemic. The President is honored to recognize a handful of individuals who have gone above and beyond to assist their fellow Americans during this challenging time. These individuals represent all Americans who have demonstrated generosity, selflessness, and compassion during this time of need.
The following individuals are expected to attend:
The White HousePresident Donald J. Trump
External ParticipantsLibby Bish, Co-Founder of Frontline FuelRafael Melo, Co-Founder of Frontline FuelTJ Kim, Sophomore, The Landon SchoolFrank Siller, Founder and President, Tunnel to TowersKyle West, Mailman, Cincinnati, Ohio



May 1, 202016:57 

In house pool # 8 CORRECTION — mislabeled pool (previously sent as 11)
Note: Proper pool # 8 (incorrect pool number sent earlier)
Presidential Recognition Ceremony: Hard Work, Heroism, and Hope. started at 4:47 and is being streamed via the White House.--



May 1, 202017:14 

In town pool report #9
Blue Room event ended at 5:09. POTUS did not take questions. Pool was called to the South Lawn for directly after for POTUS' Marine 1 departure en route to Camp David



May 1, 202017:40 

In town pool report #10 POTUS departure
Marine 1 took off at 5:29.
POTUS took a few questions. Will send more shortly:
On a fertilizer plant in N. Korea: I'd rather not comment on it yet.
Would he advise the president of Brazil to support social distancing: I think he's doing a very good job he's a great friend of mine. And the President is doing really well in Brazil. We're very proud of him.
They've been hit hard, very hard, but you have a president that's doing a very good job.
On social distancing during his week weekend: "Yah, I will."



May 1, 202016:53 

In town pool report #11 Blue Room Event
Presidential Recognition Ceremony: Hard Work, Heroism, and Hope. started at 4:47 and is being streamed via the White House.



May 1, 202018:08 

In house pool #11 More on POTUS' gaggle before boarding Marine 1
More notes from POTUS's departure who said, "We'll be at Camp David for a work weekend."
(Full Quote on North Korea leader showing up at a fertilizer plant): I'd rather not comment on it yet -- Kim Jong Un. We'll have something to say about it at the appropriate time.
Do you know if Kim Jong Un is alive? Can you at least say that? I don't want to talk about it.
On Georgia and it's reopening POTUS's comments on reopening Georgia: I didn't say that, Joe. I said I didn't like the particular place -- a spa, a tattoo parlor. No, no, I think it's wonderful. I want to see us open safely. But I didn't like spas and tattoo parlors. And I wasn't thrilled about that, but I said nothing about Georgia other than that. I like the state's opening. They will be opening. They're going to open safely and quickly -- I hope -- because we have to get our country back. Thank you.



May 1, 202018:23 

In House Pool # 12 Last POTUS quote before boarding Marine 1
POTUS on imposing tariffs on China: So, we're going to see what happens. A lot of things are happening with respect to China. We're not happy, obviously with what happened, This is a bad situation -- all over the world, 183 countries. But we'll be having a lot to say about that. It's certainly an option. It's certainly an option.



May 1, 202018:26 

In House Pool #13 LID
A travel/photo lid was called at 6:23. Good night!



May 1, 202018:32 

In House Pool # 14
The White House asked that I send this along: The President was wheels down at Camp David at 6:10 p.m.




  