
    Mr. General Secretary Brezhnev, Mr. Chairman of the Presidium, Mr. Chairman of the Council of Ministers, and all of our distinguished guests:
This house, which is the American Embassy, is greatly honored tonight by the presence of our Soviet guests.
I say this not only because of your rank, the leaders of the great Soviet people, but also because of the boundless hospitality you have extended to all of us on our visit to Moscow. We look forward to the time when we shall be able to welcome you in our country and in some way respond in an effective manner to the way in which you have received us so generously in your country.
This has been described as a visit of the summit. But as we all know, there are many summits in the world. This is the first meeting. There will be others.
And now this is, of course, an evening that will always be remembered in this house for another reason: Tonight at 11 o'clock there will be signed an historic agreement between the Soviet Union and the United States.
It is an agreement which will limit strategic arms between the two most powerful nations in the world. It is an enormously important agreement, but again it is only an indication of what can happen in the future as we work toward peace in the world. But I have great hopes on that score.
The Soviet people and the American people demonstrated over 25 years ago how they could fight together to win a war. And now in our meetings this week, and particularly culminating in the signing of this agreement tonight, we shall demonstrate to the world how these two great peoples, the Soviet people and the American people, can work together to build a peace.
Every leader of a nation wonders at times how he will be remembered in history. But, as I have met with the top Soviet leaders--with General Secretary Brezhnev, with Chairman Kosygin, with Chairman Podgorny--I am convinced of this fact: We want to be remembered by our deeds, not by the fact that we brought war to the word, but by the fact that we made the world a more peaceful one for all peoples in the world.
It is in that spirit that, here in the American Embassy, we all proudly raise our glasses to the leaders of the Soviet peoples and to the great cause of peace-peace between our two countries and peace for all peoples to which we think this visit, this meeting, has contributed and will contribute in the future.
  