
    "On day one, President Romney will immediately approve the Keystone pipeline, creating thousands of jobs and strengthening our energy security. He will introduce tax reform that lowers rates and rewards job creators. And he will begin replacing Obamacare with commonsense health care reform. Compare that to what the first day of President Obama's second term would look like. On day one of the Romney presidency, we will begin restoring the greatness of America." –Andrea Saul, Romney Campaign Spokesperson
Click Here To View "Day One": http://mi.tt/KjkEj6
COMPARE THE FIRST DAY AGENDAS OF MITT ROMNEY AND BARACK OBAMA:
Day One Of The Romney Presidency: Immediate Action To Strengthen America And Turn The Economy Around

Day One Under President Romney: Pursue Tax Reform That Will Spark Economic Growth, Expand Domestic Energy Exploration, And Address Runaway Spending. "Romney spoke without a prepared text under a banner that read, 'Day One, Job One,' inside a sweltering North Las Vegas truck warehouse. He laid out 10 actions he said he would take on his first day in the Oval Office that would create more certainty for businesses. They include five measures that would: lower the corporate tax rate to 25 percent from 35 percent; implement free-trade agreements with Colombia, Panama and South Korea; expand domestic energy exploration; consolidate worker retraining programs and turn them over to the states; and cut non-security discretionary spending by 5 percent." (Philip Rucker and Karen Tumulty, "Romney Unveils Sweeping Plan For Jobs, Economy," The Washington Post, 9/7/11)


Day One Under President Romney: Approve The Keystone XL Pipeline, Creating Thousands Of Jobs That President Obama Has Blocked. "I will permit access to our resources in the Gulf of Mexico, the Outer Continental Shelf, western lands and the Alaska National Wildlife Refuge. I also will partner closely with our neighbors. Canada and Mexico have extraordinary resources of their own that can provide secure, reliable supplies for our economy. This starts with my approval of the Keystone XL pipeline on Day One." (Mitt Romney, Op-Ed, "U.S. Can Be Energy Superpower," The Columbus Dispatch, 3/5/12)


Day One Under President Romney: Stop Obamacare In Its Tracks. "If I were president, on Day One I would issue an executive order paving the way for Obamacare waivers to all 50 states. The executive order would direct the Secretary of Health and Human Services and all relevant federal officials to return the maximum possible authority to the states to innovate and design health-care solutions that work best for them." (Mitt Romney, Op-Ed, "If I Were President: Obamacare, One Year In," National Review, 3/22/11)

Day One Under President Obama: More Of The Same Old Liberal Policies That Are Taking Us In The Wrong Direction


    Day One Under President Obama: Move Toward One Of The Biggest Tax Increases In American History. "President Obama unveiled part two of his American Jobs Act on Monday, and it turns out to be another permanent increase in taxes to pay for more spending and another temporary tax cut. No surprise there. What might surprise Americans, however, is how the President is setting up the U.S. economy for one of the biggest tax increases in history in 2013." (Editorial, "The 2013 Tax Cliff," The Wall Street Journal, 9/14/11)
  



    Day One Under President Obama: Double Down On The Outdated Energy Policies That Have Led To Higher Prices And Fewer Jobs. OBAMA: "We have to have an even more robust energy policy if we're going to create the kind of jobs in this new energy sector that are needed and we're going to deal with climate change in a serious way." (President Barack Obama, Remarks in San Francisco, CA, 2/17/12)
  
Day One Under President Obama: Obamacare Begins To Kick In, Raising Taxes And Stifling Growth. "Keep in mind that Mr. Obama has already signed the largest tax increase since 1993. While everyone focuses on the Bush tax rates that expire after 2012, other tax increases are already set to hit the economy thanks to the 2010 Affordable Care Act. As a refresher, here's a non-exhaustive list of ObamaCare's tax increases..." (Editorial, "Taxes Upon Taxes Upon . . .," The Wall Street Journal, 7/11/11)

  