
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
May 8
In the morning, the President participated in a wreath-laying ceremony at Arlington Cemetery in Arlington, VA, commemorating the 50th anniversary of V-E Day.
In the afternoon, the President and Hillary Clinton traveled to Moscow, Russia. While en route to Moscow, the President had a telephone conversation with President-elect Jacques Chirac of France.
The President announced his intention to nominate Leo K. Goto to be a member of the Civil Liberties Public Education Fund Board of Directors.
The President announced his intention to nominate Marc B. Nathanson as a member of the Broadcasting Board of Governors for the International Bureau of Broadcasting.
May 9
Following their arrival in Moscow in the early morning, the President and Hillary Clinton went to the Kremlin where they participated in a wreath-laying ceremony at the Tomb of the Unknowns. They then viewed the veterans parade at Red Square.
In the afternoon, the President and Hillary Clinton toured the Central Museum of the Great Patriotic War at Poklonnaya Gora. Later in the afternoon, they attended a reception for U.S. veterans of World War II at the Radisson Slavjanskaya Hotel.
In the early evening, the President and Hillary Clinton toured the Novedevichy Convent. Following a reception for heads of state at St. George's Hall, they attended a state dinner hosted by President Boris Yeltsin of Russia at the Palace of Congresses in the Kremlin.
The President announced his intention to nominate John White to be Deputy Secretary of Defense.
May 10
In the morning, the President met with President Yeltsin in St. Catherine's Room at the Kremlin.
In the evening, the President and Hillary Clinton attended a dinner in the Hall of Facets at the Kremlin.
The President declared a major disaster in the State of Louisiana and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms, tornadoes, and flooding on May 8-9.
The White House announced that the President has invited President Robert Mugabe of Zimbabwe to the White House for an official working visit on May 18.
May 11
In the morning, the President and Hillary Clinton met with staff at the U.S. Embassy compound.
In the afternoon, the President and Hillary Clinton toured a Coca-Cola plant. Following the tour, they traveled to Kiev, Ukraine, where the President met with President Leonid Kuchma of Ukraine at Mariinsky Palace.
In the evening, the President and Hillary Clinton attended a state dinner hosted by President Kuchma at Mariinsky Palace.
The President announced his intention to appoint Michael L. Beatty to be the U.S. Representative to the Western Interstate Nuclear Board.
The President announced his intention to appoint the following individuals to the Advisory Committee on the Arts of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts:
—Don Anselmi;
—Gregory Carr;
—David Cofrin;
—Susan Gelman;
—Mary C. Hansen;
—Gary Hindes;
—Sherry K. Jelsma;
—Michael Pannos; and
—Gail Rosene Smith.
The White House announced that the President has asked a delegation led by Deputy Secretary of Veterans Affairs Hershel Gober, Assistant Secretary of State Winston Lord, and Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for POW/MIA Affairs James Wold to travel to Vietnam, May 13-16, and Laos, May 17-18, to facilitate the fullest possible accounting of American POW/MIA's.
May 12
In the morning, the President and Hillary Clinton participated in a wreath-laying ceremony at the World War II Memorial.
In the afternoon, following a departure ceremony at Mariinsky Palace and tours of St. Andrew's Church and Kyyevo-Pecherska Lavra monastery, the President and Hillary Clinton returned to Washington, DC.
In the evening, the President and Hillary Clinton traveled to Camp David, MD, for the weekend.
  