
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

America is a nation founded on imagination and courage; our history is a record of the entrepreneurial spirit of our people. This bold, creative spirit is clearly embodied by the 19 million small business men and women across the United States today.
Small businesses lead the way in developing new technologies and products and in creating opportunities for young and unskilled workers. They are a driving force behind our Nation's record economic expansion. More than half of the U.S. labor force is employed by small business, and most first-job opportunities are in the small business community. In fact, small businesses are responsible for two out of three jobs created in the private sector. These tremendous contributions to our society send a message to the rest of the world that individual freedom and initiative breed innovation and economic productivity.
The small business owners of our Nation understand their leadership role and accept no boundaries or limits to their potential. Increasingly, there are no borders to their commerce. Small business people are now significant players in the international marketplace. Their determined, independent spirit and far-reaching influence will continue to ensure our Nation's growth into the 21st century, and will allow us to enhance our competitiveness in the global arena.
Enthusiastic and confident, the small business community is the cornerstone of America's economy -- and it is an inspiration to people around the world.
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush, President of the United States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim the week of May 7 through May 13, 1989, as Small Business Week, and I call on every American to join me in this very special tribute.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this eighth day of May, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-nine, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and thirteenth.

GEORGE BUSH
  