
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate three individuals to serve in his administration.
The President intends to nominate Vincent Martin Battle to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Lebanon. A career member of the Senior Foreign Service, Battle has been the Director of the Office of Career Development and Assignments in the Bureau of Human Resources at the Department of State since 1999. From 1994 to 1996 he was Chief of the Senior Level Division in the Bureau of Human Resources and served as Deputy Chief of Mission in Beirut from 1991 to 1994. He has held a variety of other posts overseas and has received several awards including a Senior Foreign Service Performance Award in 1998. He is a graduate of Georgetown University, received a Diploma in Education from Makerere University in Uganda, and earned a Master's degree and Ph.D. from Columbia University.
The President intends to nominate Congressman Asa Hutchinson to be Administrator of the Drug Enforcement Administration at the Department of Justice. He currently represents the Third District of Arkansas in the U.S. House of Representatives, where he serves on the Speaker's Task Force for a Drug Free America. Before being elected in 1996, he practiced law in Fort Smith, Arkansas, with the law firm of Karr & Hutchinson. He was appointed by former President Reagan as U.S. Attorney for the Western District of Arkansas in 1982 and he served in that capacity until 1985. Hutchinson received an undergraduate degree from Bob Jones University and a J.D. from the University of Arkansas.
The President intends to nominate Brian Carlton Roseboro to be Assistant Secretary of the Treasury for Financial Markets. He is presently the Deputy Director of Market Risk Management with the American International Group in New York, New York. He was Director of the Risk Management Advisor at SBC Warburg Dillon Reed from 1993 to 1996 and was with the First National Bank of Chicago from 1990 to 1993. From 1983 to 1986 he held several positions at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York including Chief Dealer for Foreign Exchange Trading. Roseboro is a graduate of the University of Rochester and earned an M.B.A. from Columbia University Graduate School of Business.
  