
    "President Obama and Vice President Biden have crisscrossed the country talking to college graduates – but one thing they haven't mentioned is the impact their failed liberal policies have had on the job market. After trillions in wasteful spending and new debt, college graduates – like all Americans – need a leader like Mitt Romney who knows how to get our economy moving again." –Amanda Henneberg, Romney Campaign Spokesperson
With College Students Graduating Around The Country, President Obama's Allies And The Media Have Noted The Difficulties Facing Graduates In The Obama Economy:
"A Weak Labor Market Already Has Left Half Of Young College Graduates Either Jobless Or Underemployed In Positions That Don't Fully Use Their Skills And Knowledge." (Hope Yen, "1 In 2 New Graduates Are Jobless Or Underemployed," The Associated Press, 4/22/12)
In 2011, Approximately 1.5 Million College Graduates Under The Age Of 25 Were "Jobless Or Underemployed, The Highest Share In At Least 11 Years." "About 1.5 million, or 53.6 percent, of bachelor's degree-holders under the age of 25 last year were jobless or underemployed, the highest share in at least 11 years. In 2000, the share was at a low of 41 percent, before the dot-com bust erased job gains for college graduates in the telecommunications and IT fields." (Hope Yen, "1 In 2 New Graduates Are Jobless Or Underemployed," The Associated Press, 4/22/12)
College Graduates Are Increasingly Underemployed Or Employed In Occupations That "Require A High School Diploma Or Less." "Out of the 1.5 million who languished in the job market, about half were underemployed, an increase from the previous year. Broken down by occupation, young college graduates were heavily represented in jobs that require a high school diploma or less." (Hope Yen, "1 In 2 New Graduates Are Jobless Or Underemployed," The Associated Press, 4/22/12)
Former Clinton Labor Secretary Robert Reich, On Employment For College Graduates: "You're Going To Have A Hell Of A Hard Time Finding A Job." "First, you're going to have a hell of a hard time finding a job. The job market you're heading into is still bad. Fewer than half of the graduates from last year's class have as yet found full-time jobs. Most are still looking. That's been the pattern over the last three graduating classes: It's been taking them more than a year to land the first job. And those who still haven't found a job will be competing with you, making your job search even harder." (Robert B. Reich, "The Commencement Address That Won't Be Given," www.robertreich.org, 5/18/12)
And College Graduates Aren't The Only Young Adults Experiencing Difficulties Finding Work Under President Obama:
Unemployment Among Young Adults Ages 16 To 24 Is 16.4% – More Than Double The National Unemployment Rate. (Bureau Of Labor Statistics, www.bls.gov, Accessed 5/21/12)


    Under President Obama, The Unemployment Rate Among Young Adults Has Increased From 14.9% To 16.4%. (Bureau Of Labor Statistics, www.bls.gov, Accessed 5/21/12)
  

The Current Unemployment Rate For Young Adults Ages 16 To 19 Is Even Higher At 24.9%. (Bureau Of Labor Statistics, www.bls.gov, Accessed 5/21/12)
"Young Americans Graduating From High School And College Over The Last Several Years Have Been Confronting One Of The Worst Job Markets In Decades." (Josh Sanburn, "Fewest Young Adults In 60 Years Have Jobs," Time, 2/9/12)
Employment Among Young Adults Is At The Lowest Level "Since The Government Started Keeping Records In 1948." "How hard has the Great Recession hit young adults in the U.S.? According to a report released Thursday by the Pew Research Center, only 54.3% of young adults aged 18 to 24 have a job. It's the lowest rate since the government started keeping records in 1948." (Josh Sanburn, "Fewest Young Adults In 60 Years Have Jobs," Time, 2/9/12)
  