
    Pool Reports by  David Sanger, New York Times 



Sent:
Reports:




May 16, 202109:22

Pool Report 1
POTUS motorcaded to St. Joseph on the Brandywine Church, just minutes from his home, at 9:05. Pool saw him fleetingly, walking into the front door of the church, a creme-colored stucco classic with a 19th century graveyard in front.
It is a cool morning with sporadic sun, and pool is holding in front of church, in need of caffeine.



May 16, 202109:46

Pool Report 2
At 9:35 am POTUS re-emerged from the church - alone, masked, carrying a newspaper that he glanced at - and walked back to the Beast. Pool now rolling back toward the house. No one out on the road to greet, protest or notice; houses each seemed to have several acres around them.



May 16, 202110:56

Pool report 3
White House sends this:
The President and the First Lady pre-taped a message to the Muslim community for Eid al-Fitr and the conclusion of Ramadan. In place of the White House Iftar, the White House is hosting a virtual Eid observance today to commemorate the end of Ramadan. The President and the First Lady’s pre-taped message will premiere at the event, which will be open to the public for the first time. Consistent with our virtual Passover and Easter events, this event will mark one of the most important holidays for the Muslim community, and we will publicly share the video message from the President and First Lady on social channels when the event concludes.



May 16, 202113:26

Pool Report 4 - Golf 
At 1:07 pm POTUS left the house for what appears to be a golf outing. Motorcade wound through back roads and some lovely lakes, and into the Fieldstone Golf Club, about 10 minutes from the house. The clubhouse is made of …fieldstone. (The website offers "full", "young executive" and "social" memberships.)
We never saw the President and have been dispatched to a restaurant hold off the club's premises. No word yet on golf partners.



May 16, 202116:25

Pool report 5 - Golf over, and a lid 
Golf ended at the stroke of 4 pm; POTUS was back home at 4:13. White House is strangely reticent to say who his golf partners were. Your pooler will endeavor to solve the mystery. The one time Pres. Biden has played golf since becoming president (that statistic alone is the truest sign that the Obama and Trump eras are over), names were released.
We have a lid. Enjoy the evening.




  