
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
May 13
In the evening, the President attended Democratic National Committee dinners at the Jefferson Hotel and the Sheraton Carlton Hotel.
The President announced his intention to nominate Kerry-Ann Jones as Associate Director for National Security and International Affairs at the Office of Science and Technology Policy.
The President announced the nominations of the following individuals to ambassadorial posts:
—Stanley Schrager, Ambassador to Djibouti; —Arlene Render, Ambassador to Zambia; —Alan R. McKee, Ambassador to Swaziland; —John F. Hicks, Ambassador to Eritrea; and —Harold Walter Geisel, Ambassador to the Seychelles.
May 14
In the morning, the President met with Bosnian Federation leaders and officials of the Governments of Bosnia-Herzegovina and Croatia in the Roosevelt Room.
In the afternoon, the President attended a Democratic National Committee lunch at the Jefferson Hotel. He then met in the Cabinet Room with a group of District of Columbia residents representing nonprofit organizations.
May 15
In the afternoon, the President had a telephone conversation with Senator Bob Dole to discuss the Senator's decision to retire from the Senate.
The White House announced the President appointed David P. Twomey, William P. Hobgood, and Carl E. Van Horn to the Presidential emergency board established to investigate disputes between certain railroads and employees represented by the Brotherhood of Maintenance of Way Employes.
May 16
In the morning, the President hosted a breakfast for the White House Conference on Corporate Citizenship in the State Dining Room.
In the evening, the President attended the NAACP Legal Defense Fund honoree reception at the Washington Hilton Hotel and the Southwest Voter Registration Education Project dinner at the Mayflower Hotel.
The President announced his intention to nominate Marcia E. Miller as a Commissioner of the International Trade Commission.
The President declared a major disaster in the State of Montana and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms, flooding, ice jams, and excessive soil saturation.
May 17
In the morning, the President traveled to St. Louis, MO. Following his arrival, he addressed the community at the Webster Groves High School.
In the evening, the President attended a dinner for Representative Richard A. Gephardt at the Trans World Dome. Following the dinner, he returned to Washington, DC, arriving after midnight.
The President announced his intention to nominate Arma Jane Karaer as Ambassador to Papua New Guinea, to the Solomon Islands, and to Vanuatu.
The President accorded the personal rank of Ambassador to James W. Pardew, Jr., in his capacity as U.S. Special Representative for Military Stabilization in the Balkans.
The President announced his intention to nominate Alan Philip Larson to be an Assistant Secretary of State for Economic and Business Affairs.
  