
    Memorandum for the United States Trade RepresentativeSubject: Western Red Cedar Shakes and Shingles Import Relief Determination
Pursuant to Section 202(b)(1) of the Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 2251(b)(1)), I have determined the action I will take with respect to the report of the United States International Trade Commission (ITC), transmitted to me on March 25, 1986, concerning the results of its investigation of a petition for import relief filed by the Northwest Independent Forest Manufacturers on behalf of the domestic industry producing wood shakes and shingles, provided for in item 200.85 of the Tariff Schedules of the United States.
After considering all relevant aspects of the case, including those set forth in Section 202(c) of the Trade Act of 1974, I have determined that provision of import relief in the form of a tariff for up to 5 years is in the national economic interest. The tariff will apply to all U.S. imports of western red cedar shakes and shingles. The additional duty will be 35 percent ad valorem for the first 30 months of the period, 20 percent ad valorem for months 30 through 54, and 8 percent ad valorem for months 54 through 60. This 5-year relief program should be sufficient to enable the domestic producers of red cedar shakes and shingles to adjust to competition during the relief period.
In conjunction with providing import relief, I hereby direct you to request that the ITC advise me of the probable economic effect on the domestic industry of the termination of import relief after 30 months. This advice is to include a review of the progress and specific efforts being made by the domestic producers of western red cedar shakes and shingles to adjust to import competition. I also direct you to request, on my behalf, advice regarding termination of relief from the Secretaries of Commerce and Labor. The ITC, Commerce, and Labor advice is to be provided to me, through you, 3 months prior to the expiration of the 30-month period. It is my intention to continue relief for the entire 5-year period if general market conditions continue to warrant relief and if the domestic producers have begun to make reasonable progress toward adjustment during the first 30-month period.
As required by Section 203(e)(1) of the Trade Act of 1974, this tariff will be implemented by Presidential Proclamation no later than June 7, 1986, which is the 15th day after the date of this determination.
This determination shall be published in the Federal Register.
RONALD REAGAN
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 9:08 a.m., May 27, 1986]
  