
    Pool Reports by Andrew Restuccia, The Wall Street Journal 



Sent:
Reports:




May 3, 2023 09:01

In town pool report #1 — breakfast lid
The White House called a breakfast lid until 12:45 pm. 


May 3, 2023 12:57

In town pool report #2 -- briefing delayed
The White House says today's briefing will now begin at 1:15 pm 


May 3, 2023 13:21

In town pool report #3 -- briefing delayed again
From the White House: The press briefing will begin in 10 minutes. 


May 3, 2023 13:31

In town pool report #4 -- two minutes to briefing
Two minutes to the press briefing 


May 3, 2023 14:32

In town pool report #5 -- briefing ends
The briefing ended at 2:31 pm 


May 3, 2023 14:51

In town pool report #6 -- lunch/dinner lid
Hi there. The White House just called a lunch/dinner lid until 6 p.m.
Per the daily guidance, the president and first lady are hosting a dinner for combatant commanders at 6:30 p.m. 


May 3, 2023 18:18

In town pool report #7 -- pool gathering
Pool is now gathering for the combatant commander dinner 


May 3, 2023 19:15

In town pool report #8 — dinner and lid
No news
 POTUS entered Cross Hall at 7 pm.
 He spoke at a lectern. In front of him were a row of round tables packed with dinner guests. Each table was covered in an ivory and gold table cloth, as well as fresh flowers.
 POTUS thanked the guests. It was very difficult to hear POTUS because the speakers were muffled.
POTUS pointed to what he called the military's "chain of honor"
 "Over the years that chain has grown stronger thanks to generations of military leaders."
"When you think about it, there's never been a question in any of our minds that we have the finest military in the history of the world."
"I will always have your back."
He said the US has a responsibility to care for members of the military when they return from service.
 He said Ukraine's people and military has been courageous and "incredibly brave."
He thanked the military for its work helping Americans in Sudan.
 POTUS mentioned Gen. Milley, who is retiring, and said he was thankful for his service.
"Each and every day you put us in the strongest strategic position around the world," he told the commanders.
He noted that some of the commanders couldn't be at the dinner because they were working. "They're at their posts."
"Together we face new challenges and complex threats, and you've remained unflinching in your pride, your purpose and your passion."
He also thanked the commanders' spouses and families. "You also serve and you also sacrifice."
 The president raised a glass for a toast
 The pool was pulled out at 7:09 pm., and a lid was called at 7:10 pm
Earlier, while we were waiting to enter the event, the pool spotted Jake Sullivan, who promptly rerouted when he saw us.
From the White House:
In attendance for a dinner hosted by the President and the First Lady for senior leaders from the Department of Defense, including Service Secretaries, Service Chiefs, and Combatant Commanders:
Secretary Lloyd Austin, Department of Defense Mrs. Charlene Austin, Spouse of Secretary Lloyd Austin Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs Liz Sherwood-Randall, Assistant to the President and Homeland Security Advisor Curtis Ried, Deputy Assistant to the President and Chief of Staff and Executive Secretary Kathleen Hicks, Deputy Secretary of Defense Dr. Tom Hicks, Spouse of Deputy Secretary Kathleen Hicks Cara Abercrombie, Deputy Assistant to the President and Coordinator for Defense Policy and Arms Control Christine Wormouth, Secretary of the Army Mr. Drew Kuepper, Spouse of the Secretary of the Army Christine Wormouth Carlos Del Toro, Secretary of the Navy Mrs. Betty Del Toro, Spouse of the Secretary of the Navy Carlos Del Toro Frank Kendall, Secretary of the Air Force Mrs. Beth Kendall, Spouse of the Secretary of the Air Force Frank Kendall General Mark Milley, USA, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff  Mrs. Hollyanne Milley, Spouse of General Mark Milley Admiral Christopher Grady, USN, Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff  Mrs. Christine Grady, Spouse of Admiral Christine Grady General David Berger, USMC, Commandant of the Marine Corps Mrs. Donna Berger, Spouse of General David Berger General James McConville, USA, Chief of Staff of the Army  Mrs. Maria McConville, Spouse of General James McConville Admiral Michael Gilday, USN, Chief of Naval Operations  Mrs. Linda Gilday, Spouse of Admiral Michael Gilday General Charles Q. Brown, Jr., USAF, Chief of Staff of the Air Force Mrs. Sharene Brown, Spouse of General Sharene Brown General Chance Saltzman, USSF, Chief of Space Operations  Mrs. Jennifer Saltzman, Spouse of General Chance Saltzman General Daniel Hokanson, USA, Chief of the National Guard Bureau Mrs. Kelly Hokanson, Spouse of General Daniel Hokanson Admiral Linda Fagan, USCG, Commandant of the Coast Guard General Paul Nakasone, USA, Commander, U.S. Cyber Command  Mrs. Susan Nakasone, Spouse General Paul Nakasone General Glen VanHerck, USAF, Commander, U.S. Northern Command  Mrs. Marilyn VanHerck, Spouse of General Glen VanHerck General James Dickinson, USA, Commander, U.S. Space Command  Mrs. Angie Dickinson, Spouse of General James Dickinson Admiral John Aquilino, USN, Commander, U.S. Indo-Pacific Command  Mrs. Laura Aquilino, Spouse of Admiral John Aquilino General Jaqueline Van Ovost, USAF, Commander, U.S. Transportation Command  Mr. Alan Frosch, Spouse of General Jaqueline Van Ovost General Laura Richardson, USA, Commander, U.S. Southern Command  Lieutenant General (retired) Jim Richardson, USA, Spouse of General Laura Richardson General M. Erik Kurilla, USA, Commander, U.S. Central Command  General Bryan Fenton, USA, Commander, U.S. Special Operations Command  Mrs. Dawn Fenton, Spouse of General Bryan Fenton Admiral Anthony Cotton, USN, Commander, U.S. Strategic Command  Mrs. Marsha Cotton, Spouse of Admiral Anthony Cotton General Paul LaCamera, USA, Commander, United Nations Command/Combined Forces Command/United States Forces Korea, Republic of Korea Mrs. Theresa LaCamera, Spouse of General Paul LaCamera 



  