
    Today, El Tiempo Latino published an article highlighting how President Biden's Investing in America agenda – including the Inflation Reduction Act – is providing more job opportunities for the Latino community and reducing climate pollution. The article notes that since the Inflation Reduction Act was signed into law, companies have announced nearly 200 clean energy project and investments across the country, creating 31,015 new jobs in Latino communities. The article states that "so far, 85,263 clean energy jobs have been created in communities of color across the United States" as a result of these investments.
The article also discusses the threat that House Republicans pose to the Inflation Reduction Act, noting: "Despite the job creation and progress the law has generated in less than a year, Republican representatives in Congress have not stopped trying to defund it." President Biden, on the other hand, is committed to defending and continuing to implement the Inflation Reduction Act, which is creating good-paying jobs in communities across the country, strengthening our energy security, and growing our economy from the middle-out and bottom-up.
Read the full story below:
El Tiempo Latino: Inflation Reduction Act: More job opportunities for Latinos and less climate pollution [Staff, 5/18/23] [TRANSLATED FROM SPANISH]
The Inflation Reduction Act (IRA) is one of the most aggressive actions in US history to address the climate crisis. It was approved in August 2022 and since then it has generated more than 140,000 clean energy jobs across the country.
But this legislation, which offers financing, programs and incentives to companies to accelerate their transition to a clean energy economy, has also become one of the cards of the Republican party to negotiate the increase in the debt ceiling while demanding its repeal.
New clean energy jobs
According to a report by the organization Climate Power, since the IRA law was passed, companies have made very significant investments to build a clean energy future.
"The expansion of clean energy is creating new job opportunities for our community and at the same time reducing climate pollution, an essential step for those who suffer the consequences of pollution on a daily basis," said Antonieta Cádiz, Executive Director of the organization.
This has led to the announcement of 191 projects that have required more than 140,000 workers, including electricians, mechanics, construction workers, and technicians. 129 of the projects are located in communities of color, which has generated 85,000 jobs for these minorities throughout the United States. In Latino communities, 43 projects and 35,105 new jobs have been created. Arizona, Nevada, California, Texas and Rhode Island are the states where Latinos have benefited the most. Other minority communities, such as Native Americans, have received 48 projects and 37,987 jobs. So far, 85,263 clean energy jobs have been created in communities of color across the United States.
States with the Most Clean Energy Jobs
The 129 projects that are located in communities of color are spread across 34 states:
Arizona with 12,120 jobs; Georgia with 11,461; South Carolina with 11,060. Additionally, 10,800 jobs have been created in Nevada for communities of color.
And Michigan, Oklahoma, New York, California, Tennessee, North Carolina, Texas, Idaho, Rhode Island, Florida, Colorado, Kentucky, Alabama, and Ohio also make the list.
The states that have the most clean energy jobs for Latinos are Arizona, Nevada, California and Texas.
The GOP Threat
Despite the job creation and progress the law has generated in less than a year, Republican representatives in Congress have not stopped trying to defund it.
During the negotiations for the debt ceiling increase, the Republican leaders have raised the possibility of repealing this law, among other measures, to reach an agreement.
House Republican Leader Kevin McCarthy even declared that the rescission "will end green giveaways to companies that distort the market and waste taxpayer money."
However, President Biden has been adamant to uphold the law that has increased clean energy jobs while combating environmental pollution.
  