
    Pool Reports by Brian Karem, Playboy 



Sent:
Reports:




May 19, 202309:34 PDT

VP travel pool report #1
Good morning from L.A. I'll be your intrepid pooler for the VP's visit today.
Arrival and a visit to Baby2Baby to come.
any questions? Just drop me a line.
On Background from a White House Official
Today, May 19, 2023, as part of her leadership addressing the maternal health crisis, Vice President Harris will travel to Los Angeles, California to tour Baby2Baby. Baby2Baby is a non-profit organization that supports women and families by providing essential supplies and information on government resources for lower-income moms throughout California and the nation, in partnership with community organizations that receive federal grants.
As part of the Biden-Harris Administration's innovative initiatives to improve experiences for mothers and families participating in government programs, the Administration has implemented a public-private partnership with Baby2Baby, to launch the Newborn Supply Kit which will provide essential supplies for families and information on government resources for low-income moms in selected pilot states to support maternal and infant health.
The Vice President's tour of the distribution center will include the bundling area where kits are assembled, the diaper station, and the warehouse space with supplies including clothing, baby gear and safety items (car seats, cribs, strollers), shelf-stable food and formula, maternal health items, and emergency supplies for the disaster relief program. Following the tour, the Vice President will meet with mothers to hear about their experiences. HHS Assistant Secretary January Contreras will join the Vice President during the visit.
Additional Background
Vice President Kamala Harris has spent her career fighting for the health, safety, and wellbeing of women and children, including by elevating the maternal health crisis. As Vice President, she has taken action to improve maternal health outcomes for women and families. Highlights of previous work on maternal health include:

In June 2022, the Vice President announced the White House Blueprint For Addressing The Maternal Health Crisis. (Blueprint, Fact Sheet)
In April 2022, the Vice President convened a historic meeting with Cabinet Secretaries and agency leaders to discuss the Administration's whole-of-government approach to addressing maternal mortality and morbidity. (Remarks)
In December 2021, the Vice President called on states to expand their postpartum coverage (through Medicaid and CHIP) from 2 months to 12 months. As of May 2023, 33 states and D.C. have answered that call. This matters because Medicaid covers approximately 40% of all births nationwide, and about one-third of pregnancy-related deaths occur between 1 week and 1 year postpartum.
In December 2021, the Vice President hosted the first ever White House Maternal Health Day of Action and launched a Call to Action to improve maternal health outcomes, and she secured public and private sector commitments. (Fact Sheet; Remarks)

· As U.S. Senator, Vice President Harris brought racial disparities in maternal mortality, particularly for Black women, to the forefront legislatively, increasing awareness and leading to a broader discussion of racial disparities. She introduced several bills in the Senate specifically targeted to addressing racial disparities in maternal mortality, including the Maternal CARE Act and the Black Maternal Health Momnibus Act.


May 19, 202313:04 PDT

VP Travel pool report #2
Under overcast skies VPOTUS, Second Gentleman have wheels down and pool rolling to Baby2Baby.
Guest: January Contreras, asst. sec. HHS



May 19, 202314:14 PDT

VPOTUS travel Pool #3
Tour has concluded. Background will follow.
VPOTUS took one question on the pause in Debt Ceiling negotiations. Paraphrasing- says the WH team will continue to operate in good faith and that whatever the differences are the US should not default on its debt.
More to come.
Holding at Baby2Baby site for now.



May 19, 202316:11 PDT

VPOTUS pool report #4
Holding now for unscheduled event.
Efforting exact quote on debt ceiling. Am told pool camera picked it up.
Meanwhile:
On background from a White House Official:
The Vice President toured Baby2Baby, a non-profit that serves women and families in CA and the nation by distributing donated essential supplies, while also promoting maternal and child health outcomes.
Tour GuidesNorah Weinstein, Co-CEO, Baby2BabyKelly Sawyer Patricof, Co-CEO, Baby2Baby
Tour stops:Tour Stop 1:Tour of the Baby2Baby WarehouseThe VP heard history, operation, and impact of the organization. The VP viewed supplies such as diapers, car seats, and clothing.
Tour Stop 2: package assembly lineThe VP viewed the assembly line where staff and volunteers put together the Baby2Baby packages.



May 19, 202316:16 PDT

VPOTUS Travel pool #5
Quote on Baby2Baby - launching in Arkansas, New Mexico and Louisiana first - all red states - VPOTUS says "that is where we have the most need" - not necessarily because they are Red States.
On pause in negotiations for the Debt Ceiling: "These negotiations are difficult. We are absolutely committed to progress. America cannot default. We've never defaulted. It would have a direct impact on the economy. So what I would suggest to our elected leaders is that we come to an agreement because default is not an option."



May 19, 202318:58 PDT

VPOTUS travel pool #6
Pool has arrived at Crypto.com Arena. VPOTUS has arrived for WNBA Los Angeles Sparks game. Scheduled to meet Brittney Griner.



May 19, 202319:38 PDT

VPOTUS travel pool report #7
VPOTUS has met Brittney Griner, in her first official game back with Phoenix Mercury.
And is meeting with Los Angeles Sparks now.
VPOTUS scheduled to make a presentation on court shortly



May 19, 202320:23 PDT

VPOTUS travel pool #8
VPOTUS, after meeting both LA Sparks and Phoenix Mercury in the dressing rooms showed up at center court to cheers from about 10,000 people received an honorary jersey from the Sparks.
That's a wrap from LA.
Peace and happy weekend!




  