
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate ten individuals and appoint ten individuals to serve in his Administration.
The President intends to nominate Tevi David Troy, of New York, to be Deputy Secretary of Health and Human Services. Dr. Troy currently serves as Deputy Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy. Prior to this, he served as Special Assistant to the President and Deputy Cabinet Secretary. Earlier in his career, he served as Deputy Assistant Secretary for Policy at the Department of Labor. Dr. Troy received his bachelor's degree from Cornell University and his master's degree and PhD from The University of Texas at Austin.
The President intends to nominate Kerry N. Weems, of New Mexico, to be Administrator of the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services at the Department of Health and Human Services. Mr. Weems currently serves as Deputy Chief of Staff at the Department of Health and Human Services. Prior to this, he served as the Acting Assistant Secretary for Budget, Technology, and Finance and Chief Financial Officer. Earlier in his career, he served as Deputy Assistant Secretary for Budget at the Department of Health and Human Services. Mr. Weems received his bachelor's degree and BBA from New Mexico State University and his MBA from the University of New Mexico.
The President intends to nominate Cameron R. Hume, of New York, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Indonesia. Mr. Hume, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, currently serves as Charg D'Affaires of the United States Embassy in Khartoum, Sudan. Prior to this, he served as Deputy Inspector General at the Department of State. Earlier in his career, he served as United States Ambassador to South Africa. Mr. Hume received his bachelor's degree from Princeton University and his JD from American University.
The President intends to nominate Bradford P. Campbell, of Virginia, to be Assistant Secretary of Labor (Pension and Welfare Benefits). Mr. Campbell currently serves as Acting Assistant Secretary and Deputy Assistant Secretary at the Employee Benefits Security Administration. Prior to this, he served as Senior Legislative Officer in the Office of Congressional Affairs at the Department of Labor. Earlier in his career, he served as legislative director to U.S. Representative Ernie Fletcher and as senior legislative assistant to former U.S. Representative Christopher Cox. Mr. Campbell received his bachelor's degree from Harvard University.
The President intends to nominate Charles E. F. Millard, of New York, to be Director of the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation. Mr. Millard currently serves as Managing Director at Broadway Partners, LLC. Previously, he served as a Managing Director at Lehman Brothers. From 1995 to 1999 he served as President of the New York City Economic Development Corporation. He also served as Group Head and Managing Director at Prudential Securities, Inc. and was twice elected to the New York City Council. Mr. Millard received his bachelor's degree from the College of the Holy Cross and his JD from Columbia University.
The President intends to nominate Bartholomew H. Chilton, of Delaware, to be a Commissioner of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, for the remainder of a five-year term expiring 04/13/08. Mr. Chilton currently serves as Chief of Staff and Vice President for Government Relations at the National Farmers Union. Prior to this, he served as Executive Assistant to the Board of the United States Farm Credit Administration. Earlier in his career, he served as Special Advisor to the Majority and Minority Leader of the United States Senate.
The President intends to nominate Jill E. Sommers, of Kansas, to be a Commissioner of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, for the remainder of a five-year term expiring 04/13/09. Ms. Sommers recently served as Policy Director and Head of the United States Government Affairs at the International Swaps and Derivatives Association. Earlier in her career, she served as Associate Director of Government Affairs of the Chicago Mercantile Exchange. Ms. Sommers received her bachelor's degree from the University of Kansas.
The President intends to nominate the following individuals to be Members of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for National and Community Service:
James Palmer, of California, for the remainder of a five-year term expiring 10/06/11; Stan Z. Soloway, of the District of Columbia, for the remainder of a five-year term expiring 10/06/11.
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the Committee for Purchase from People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled:
Kathleen A. James, of Virginia (Representing the Department of the Air Force); Paul M. Laird, of Wisconsin (Representing the Department of Justice); Patrick Leahy, of Maryland (Representing the Department of Commerce); James Omvig, of Louisiana (Representing Blind Employed in Nonprofit Agencies for the Blind), for the remainder of a five-year term expiring 12/21/11; Alan S. Thompson, of Florida (Representing the Department of the Navy); Edward W Walters, III, of New York (Representing the Department of the Army).
The President intends to nominate Lorne W. Craner, of Virginia, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Millennium Challenge Corporation (recommended by then House Majority Leader John Boehner), for a three-year term.
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the Cultural Property Advisory Committee:
Joan Breton Connelly, of New York (Archaeology), for an additional three-year term expiring 04/25/09; Winton S. Holladay, of the District of Columbia (Public), for the remainder of a three-year term expiring 04/25/09; Robert Bruce Korver, of Texas (International Sales Expert), for an additional three-year term expiring 04/25/09; Katharine Lee Reid, of North Carolina (Museum Representative), for the remainder of a three-year term expiring 04/25/09.
  