
    On Tuesday, May 7, 2019, First Lady Melania Trump will celebrate the anniversary of her initiative Be Best at the White House. Since its launch in 2018, Be Best has affected local communities across the country and world, spreading its message of kindness and shining a spotlight on successful programs and services so children and families can address the many issues they face in today's world. Students, medical professionals, technology companies, members of the President's Administration and Cabinet, and many other leaders and organizations who have shared in Be Best's message and success will be among the attendees present.
The celebration will include three guest speakers, each representing one of the three pillars of her initiative, and other guests who embody what Be Best is all about.
As First Lady of the United States, Mrs. Trump has chosen to focus her efforts and resources on helping children become the best that they can be. Broken into three main pillars, Be Best promotes a world for children based around healthy living, kindness, and respect.  Be Best acknowledges an ever-changing society that relies primarily on technology and works to find ways for children to live in a safer online environment. Be Best also aligns with the Administration's focus on the opioid crisis. Mrs. Trump will continue to use her initiative to promote people, programs, medical research, and organizations that can help mothers and families deal with and defeat opioid addiction.
"I am looking forward to this celebration," First Lady Melania Trump said. "Over the past year, I have had the opportunity to meet so many incredible people who are working hard every day to care for and provide a better world for our children. Next week will not only be an opportunity to thank so many leaders and innovators for their contributions to making Be Best a success, but a chance to come together as a community and set plans for expanding the initiative in the coming year as we work towards building a greater future for our children."
A reception will precede the event in the Kennedy Garden.
  