
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
May 3
In the afternoon, the President traveled from Palo Alto to Westwood, CA. In the evening, he traveled to Beverly Hills.
May 4
In the morning, the President traveled to San Fernando, CA.
In the afternoon, the President traveled to Chicago, IL, and in the evening, he returned to Washington, DC.
The President announced his intention to nominate Hans Mark to be Director of Defense Research and Engineering at the Department of Defense.
The President announced his intention to nominate former Representative Norman Y. Mineta to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Metropolitan Washington Airports Authority.
The President announced his intention to nominate Clyde J. Hart to be Administrator for the Maritime Administration at the Department of Transportation.
The President announced his intention to appoint Donna Nigh as a member of the President's Committee on Mental Retardation.
May 5
The President announced his intention to nominate L. Britt Snider to be Inspector General of the Central Intelligence Agency.
May 6
In the morning, the President met with Prime Minister Romano Prodi of Italy in the Oval Office.
May 8
In the morning, the President traveled to Dover, DE. In the afternoon, he returned to Washington, DC.
The President announced his intention to nominate Raymond W. Kelly to be Commissioner of the U.S. Customs Service.
The President announced his intention to nominate James E. Johnson to be Under Secretary for Enforcement at the Department of the Treasury.
The President announced his intention to nominate Elisabeth A. Breese to be Assistant Secretary for Enforcement at the Department of the Treasury.
The President declared a major disaster in Indiana and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by a severe winter storm on March 9-12.
  