
    Strongest at the Top of the Ticket: Several members of Congress released a letter yesterday to other Democrats touting their support for Hillary, saying she is the strongest candidate to have at the top of the ticket in the fall: "[W]e are convinced that Hillary Clinton has the vision, skills and commitment to make the changes our country needs. As Democrats who have run and won in competitive Congressional districts and battleground states, we believe that Hillary is best positioned to successfully lead the Democratic ticket in districts and states like ours around the country." Read more and more. [Click here] to view the Power Point presentation.
Automatic Delegate Watch: Yesterday, Texas Congressman Ciro Rodriguez and Pennsylvania Congressman Chris Carney endorsed Hillary. Said Rodriguez, "I believe Hillary Clinton has the experience, vision, and toughness to win a general election and can help expand our Democratic majority in Congress. Not only can she win, I am convinced that she will be a truly great President."
A Mother's Day Wish: In a new video, Chelsea shares some of her fondest memories of her mother, and asks mothers across the country to share their mother's day wishes with her. [Watch here.]
Fourth Quarter: Ellen Malcolm writes in a Washington Post op-ed today: "Here we are in the fourth quarter of the nominating process and the game is too close to call...Why on earth should one candidate quit before the contest is finished? Democrats need not be so fainthearted...So why are some Democrats so afraid? We simply need to count every vote, let the remaining states have their say and see the process through to its conclusion." Read more.
WV Endorsement Watch: Former West Virginia Governor Hulett Smith and the State Senate Majority Leader Truman Chafin endorsed Hillary yesterday.
On the Air in OR and WV: In a new Oregon ad, U.S. Ambassador Joe Wilson and Valerie Plame Wilson tell voters why they support Hillary. A West Virginia ad demonstrates Hillary's commitment to leveling the playing field against special interests and strengthening America's middle class. Watch here and here.
Touting Health Care in OR: "Sen. Hillary Clinton used an hourlong visit with Doernbecher Children's Hospital patients and their families Friday morning to push for her universal health care plan, which she called the '˜unfinished business' of the nation." Read more.
Previewing Today: Hillary attends a Mother's Day celebration with Chelsea in New York.
  