
    WASHINGTON, DC – Today, President Barack Obama announced his intent to appoint the following individuals to key Administration posts:
•      Henry C. Eickelberg – Member, Advisory Committee to the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation
•      Sachin Dev Pavithran – Member, Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board
•      Shelley Siegel – Member, Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board
•      Wayne A. I. Frederick – Member, President's Board of Advisors on Historically Black Colleges and Universities
•      Janice Bryant Howroyd – Member, President's Board of Advisors on Historically Black Colleges and Universities
President Obama said, "I am confident that these experienced and hardworking individuals will help us tackle the important challenges facing America, and I am grateful for their service. I look forward to working with them."
President Obama announced his intent to appoint the following individuals to key Administration posts:
Henry C. Eickelberg, Appointee for Member, Advisory Committee to the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation
Henry C. Eickelberg is an Adjunct Professor of Law at Georgetown University Law Center (Georgetown), a position he has held since 2005. He also serves as Faculty Advisor for Georgetown's graduate-level Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA) Certificate Program, a position he has held since 2015. Mr. Eickelberg has been an Employer Trustee since 2012, and now serves as Employer Co-Chair for the IAM National Pension Fund and the IAM National 401(k) Plan. From 1997 to 2015, Mr. Eickelberg served in a number of positions at General Dynamics Corporation. From 2010 to 2015, Mr. Eickelberg served as Vice President for Human Resources & Shared Services. From 2007 to 2010, he was Vice President of Human Capital Processes, Staff Vice President of Human Capital Processes from 2002 to 2007, and Staff Vice President for Benefit Programs from 1997 to 2002. Mr. Eickelberg served as Chairman of the American Benefits Counsel and on the Board of Directors of the ERISA Industry Committee. Earlier in his career, he served as a law partner at Jenner & Block, and as an ERISA consultant with William M. Mercer, Inc. He is a frequent lecturer and instructor for the American Bar Association. Mr. Eickelberg is a Certified Public Accountant who received a B.S.C. from DePaul University, and a J.D. and an LL.M. from John Marshall Law School.
Sachin Dev Pavithran, Appointee for Member, Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board
Sachin Dev Pavithran is Program Director of the Utah Assistive Technology Program at Utah State University's Center for Persons with Disabilities, a position he has held since 2011. Mr. Pavithran has served in a variety roles at the Center since 2002, including Program Coordinator and Disability Policy Analyst. Mr. Pavithran has more than 15 years of experience as a consultant in developing, testing, and training users of assistive technology and accessible websites. He serves on the Association of Assistive Technology Act Programs National Board, the Research and Development Committee of the National Federation of the Blind, and the National Multicultural Council of the Association of University Centers for Disabilities. In 2016, Mr. Pavithran was selected as one of Government Technology's Top 25 Doers, Dreamers & Drivers for his accomplishments in using technology to improve government operations. Mr. Pavithran was appointed to the Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board in 2012 and has served as Chair since 2015. Mr. Pavithran received a B.A., B.S., and M.S. from Utah State University.
Shelley Siegel, Appointee for Member, Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board
Shelley Siegel is Founder and President of Universal Design & Education Network, LLC, positions she has held since 1991. She has also been Consulting Designer of the Siegel Design Group, Inc., since 1972. Ms. Siegel is a Fellow of the American Society of Interior Designers and a member of the Design Alliance for Accessible Sustainable Environments. She is a former member of the Advisory Panel for the National Universal Design Program of the American Society of Interior Designers, the Florida Coordinating Council on the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA), and the Florida Department of Cultural Affairs ADA Advisory Board. Ms. Siegel received an A.S. from the Art Institute of Fort Lauderdale, a B.L.S. from Barry University, and an M.A. from Nova Southeastern University.
Dr. Wayne A. I. Frederick, Appointee for Member, President's Board of Advisors on Historically Black Colleges and Universities 
Dr. Wayne A. I. Frederick is the President of Howard University, a position he has held since 2014. Prior to becoming the President, Dr. Frederick held several leadership positions at Howard University, including Interim President, Associate Dean in the College of Medicine, Division Chief in the Department of Surgery, Director of the Cancer Center, and Deputy Provost for Health Sciences. Before joining the administration at Howard University, Dr. Frederick served as the Associate Director of the Carole and Ray Neag Comprehensive Cancer Center, the Director of Surgical Oncology, and as an Assistant Professor in the Department of Surgery at the University of Connecticut Health Center. Dr. Frederick received a B.S., M.B.A. and M.D. from Howard University.
Janice Bryant Howroyd, Appointee for Member, President's Board of Advisors on Historically Black Colleges and Universities 
Janice Bryant Howroyd is the CEO of ACT-1 Group, an employment and management company that offers a range of services from employee background checks to executive travel management. She founded the organization in 1978. Ms. Bryant Howroyd is an Ambassador of the Department of Energy's Minorities in Energy Initiative, a Board Member of the Department of Labor's Workforce Initiative Board, and a Member of the Industry Trade Advisory Committee on Services and Finance Industries of the U.S. Trade Representative and the Department of Commerce. She has also served on the Women's Leadership Board at Harvard University's Kennedy School of Government and the Board of Directors for North Carolina Agricultural and Technical State University.
  