
    Dear Mr. Speaker: (Dear Mr. Chairman:)
In accordance with the provisions of Public Law 95-384, I am submitting the following report on progress made during the past 60 days toward the conclusion of a negotiated solution of the Cyprus problem.
The intercommunal talks have not yet resumed. In order to circumvent the difficulties that caused the breakdown of the talks last June, Secretary General Waldheim suggested to the two Cypriot communities a formula under which both sides might return to the intercommunal table and begin concrete negotiations on the substantive aspects of the Cyprus problem. Neither community was able to accept all elements of the Secretary General's proposals. Despite intensive efforts, the Secretary General and his representative have, so far, been unable to achieve agreement on a compromise formula.
However, in a report to the General Assembly on the Cyprus question dated April 2, 1980, Mr. Waldheim states that he continues "to hold to the opinion that the intercommunal talks, if properly used, represent the best available method for negotiating a just and lasting political settlement of the Cyprus problem based on the legitimate rights of the two communities." A copy of the Secretary General's report is attached.
Both communities on Cyprus have welcomed the news that the Secretary General plans to continue his efforts, and both have reaffirmed their belief that the intercommunal talks are the best means of negotiating a fair and permanent solution to the Cyprus problem. I, too, am pleased that the Secretary General plans to continue his search for a Cyprus settlement. The United States fully supports his pursuit of a solution.
While Secretary General Waldheim's proposal for resuming the talks has not yet met with success, his proposal contains a sound basis for achieving a resumption of negotiations. Both communities must make renewed and sincere efforts to cooperate with the Secretary General as he endeavors to bridge the remaining differences.
During the past 60 days, there have been a number of informal contacts between various groups of Greek and Turkish Cypriots in Cyprus. It is heartening that some lines of communication are being re-established between the two communities; these may help establish an atmosphere more conducive to reaching a permanent solution to the island's problems.
Sincerely,
JIMMY CARTER
  