
    More than 30 Democratic leaders endorse Edwards for president
Chapel Hill, North Carolina – As Senator John Edwards' presidential campaign continues to gain support across the country, more than 30 Democratic leaders from Indiana came out in support of Edwards and his vision to transform America. Among those endorsing Edwards for president are Indiana House of Representatives Majority Leader Russ Stillwell and former Indiana Democratic Party Chairs Robin Winston and Ann DeLaney.
"As a third generation coal miner, I understand the challenges facing America's working families," said Stilwell. "Between caring for elderly parents, paying their bills and educating their children, working men and women struggle to make ends meet. John Edwards understands the choices facing Hoosier workers as they strive to provide for their families. I am proud to join other Democrats in supporting John Edwards for President because I know he will work to make the American dream a reality for all of us."
Winston endorsed Edwards saying, "John Edwards embodies the spirit of our party. He has plans to address the issues that matter to Hoosier families—plans to provide universal health care, create a new energy economy, strengthen our middle class and protect our country. Senator Edwards reminds me of the best of our Midwest values and will help move Indiana and our nation forward."
DeLaney said, "I think that John Edwards is uniquely qualified in this very dangerous time to lead our country. He shares the values of Hoosiers and understands the challenges facing the middle class. I enthusiastically endorse his candidacy."

The Indiana Democrats endorsing Edwards for president are:


Ann DeLaney, former Indiana Democratic Party Chairperson
Robin Winston, former Indiana Democratic Party Chairperson
Russ Stilwell, Majority Leader, Indiana House of Representatives
Dennie Oxley House Majority Whip
State Representative Terri Austin
State Representative Terry Goodin
State Representative Sheila Klinker
State Representative Robert Kuzman
State Representative Linda Lawson
State Representative Scott Pelath
Nancy Michael, Mayor of Greencastle
D. William (Bill) Moreau, Jr. Former Chief of Staff to Governor Evan Bayh
Shaw Friedman, 2004 Dean for America Indiana coordinator, General Chairman of the Donnelly for Congress (IN-02), former LaPorte County Democratic Chair, and former Legal Counsel, Indiana Democratic Party
Mike Jones 9th Congressional District Chair
Marjorie Warnick, 3rd Congressional District Democratic Vice Chair
Mary Lou Terrell, 8th Congressional District Vice Chair former Indiana Democratic Party Vice Chair
Tom O'Donnell Business Manager IBEW Local 481
Brian Williams former Political Director Indiana Democratic Party
Mark Owen, former Vanderburgh County Democratic Chair
Greg Hahn, Legal Counsel, Marion County Democratic Party and attorney
Terry Burns, Marion County Democratic Party Communications Director
Elizabeth (Beth)White, Marion County Clerk
Bruce Kehoe, partner in Kehoe and Willingham
Edward DeLaney, community activist
Laura Michaels, local businesswoman
David Galvin, political activist
John Wilcox, political activist
Ehren Bingaman, political activist
Kate Sweeney-Bell, political activist
Amanda Lawson, political activist
Patty Yount, political activist

  