
    My administration is pursuing a comprehensive strategy to address the full spectrum of needs in these communities, supporting both health and economic revitalization. --President Donald J. Trump
SUPPORTING UNDERSERVED COMMUNITIES: President Donald J. Trump is working to aid communities that have been disproportionately harmed by COVID-19.

President Trump is committed to providing unprecedented health and economic support to individuals in traditionally underserved communities affected by COVID-19.
The Administration is reaching out and directly working with leaders in these communities.

The White House has provided at least 550,000 African American stakeholders with comprehensive, direct updates on preparedness, response, and mitigation efforts.
The White House has reached hundreds of thousands of Hispanic stakeholders through conference calls, town halls, and virtual events to inform about our COVID-19 response.
The Administration has held weekly calls with tribal leaders to assist tribal communities with response, mitigation, and recovery efforts.


The President has also directed the White House Opportunity and Revitalization Council to focus on underserved communities impacted by the virus.

DELIVERING CRITICAL ECONOMIC SUPPORT: President Trump is committed to ensuring that distressed communities have access to vital economic assistance during this time of crisis.

President Trump signed legislation providing $60 billion in loans under the Paycheck Protection Program targeted to support minority and disadvantaged communities.
The President is delivering up to $1,200 in direct cash payments to Americans who have been affected by the COVID-19 pandemic and providing additional payments for their families.
The Department of Education temporarily delayed student loan repayments, held interest rates at zero, and provided more than $6 billion in emergency assistance to students.
The President signed legislation providing $1 billion to Historically Black Colleges and Universities, Hispanic Serving Institutions, and other minority serving institutions that have experienced hardship due to COVID-19 and continues to target funds to institutions in need.
The President signed legislation providing $3.5 billion to keep child care centers open for low-income families and frontline workers.
The President halted evictions on Federal Government-assisted housing and is temporarily preventing foreclosures for some Federal Housing Administration insured mortgages.

PROVIDING QUALITY CARE: President Trump is working tirelessly to provide underserved communities with the healthcare resources they need to fight the virus.

The President is committed to equipping underserved communities with the necessary testing and healthcare resources they need to combat the COVID-19 pandemic.
The Administration is investing approximately $2 billion in community health centers, helping their 28 million patients in medically underserved areas receive the care and testing they need.
President Trump signed legislation to guarantee coronavirus testing free of cost-sharing, removing financial obstacles for Americans who would otherwise be unable to access them.
$2 billion has been devoted to support hospitals with high COVID-19 admissions based on their Medicare and Medicaid disproportionate share and uncompensated care payments.
To remove financial hurdles to getting appropriate care, the Federal Government is covering the cost of coronavirus treatment for uninsured patients.

  