
    [President Trump's remarks were joined in progress.]
President Trump. ——most of the credit. And I, likewise, have some tremendously talented people. But in particular, Jason, you love Israel so much, that he left a very, very, very substantial job to be able to help on a peace treaty. And you would love to see that, wouldn't you? Huh? And David Friedman, likewise, one of the most successful lawyers in the United States. And he said, I want to do something. He's your Ambassador, as you know, David Friedman.
So we're very honored to have the two of you working so hard to try and bring about peace. And I think you'll be very successful. And if you're not, you'll get blamed, because I just put it on record that you're going to do a good job. [Laughter]
So that's all right, but my staff has been fantastic. And as you know, Rex, our Secretary of State, has done an incredible job. We just got back from the Middle East. We just got back from Saudi Arabia. And we were treated incredibly well. And there's tremendous—well, really good—feeling toward Israel. And I will say, one of the things, I think—we can call it an outreach—but what's happened with Iran has brought many other parts of the Middle East toward Israel. And you could say that's one of the—if there's a benefit, that would be the benefit, because I've seen such a different feeling toward Israel from countries that, as you know, were not feeling so well about Israel not so long ago. And it's brought a lot of folks together, and I think you've seen it, and you've even mentioned it many—on many occasions. So that is a real positive, and we're very happy about that.
President Rivlin. Every challenge creates opportunities.
President Trump. It's a challenge, and it's an opportunity.
President Rivlin. And I'll——
President Trump. But you have a great opportunity right now. There's a great feeling for peace throughout the Middle East. I think people have just had enough. They've had enough of the bloodshed and the killing. And I think you're going to see things starting to happen.
What we did over the weekend was—they say there's never been anything like it ever before. And it was really a coming together. And now, today, being in Israel is just very, very special for us. So we expect to have some very interesting talks.
President Rivlin. Absolutely. We are praying for peace, and we are pushing for peace for the last 100 years. And with God's help, somebody will bring us peace, all together—all together. Thank you.
President Trump. Thank you very much.
  