
    Ladies and gentlemen:
It is a very great privilege and pleasure for Mrs. Ford and me to have you with us on this occasion in the White House. On your first visit to our country since ascending the throne, I welcome you very warmly on behalf of all of the Americans.
Americans have a historic affinity and a special friendship for Denmark, and we want your stay in our country to be as joyous and rewarding as possible. There are no less than 22 cities and towns in the United States called Denmark. I think this is somewhat indicative of the Danish influence in America's heartland where I understand you are visiting, and those of us who come from that part of the country, of course feel it is the heartland of America.
I am tremendously delighted that you will visit many, many parts of the United States and that our people have an opportunity to meet you and to treat you as hospitably as I know they will. I am especially pleased that you will visit the Virgin Islands because of the very special ties flowing from those historic islands.
Your visit is very timely in this Bicentennial Year because our two countries have maintained uninterrupted diplomatic relations with each other longer than America has had such relations with any other country. Our relations began in 1801 and they have never been severed by war or for any other reason.
In your American travels you will meet millions of Danish ancestry. We are extremely proud of the contributions to our progress by those who have your cultural heritage and the moral and spiritual values that are important to both of our peoples.
The traditional ties between Denmark and the United States are reinforced by a common dedication to the freedom and the dignity of the individual and to the economic and social progress which is important to us all. It is these shared commitments that make us not only close friends but steadfast allies in the North Atlantic Treaty Organization.
In these shared commitments we, of course, feel that the rich culture is a vitally important part. And Denmark has given, not only to NATO but to Western Europe, much to humanity. Committed to the objective of peace among nations, the Danes have made that goal a reality by serving in the United States (Nations) peacekeeping activities and efforts in the Middle East, the Congo, as well as Cyprus.
As a member of the European Community, Denmark enhances contacts between the Community and the United States. The United States does attach a very great importance to our relationship with Denmark, and I note that these relations are excellent at the present time, and I am confident that those relations will continue. We will understand each other's views on various international problems, on peace, security, and economic progress.
As President, I welcome the outstanding contributions which the Danish Government, the Danish Bicentennial Committee, and the Danish people are making to the observance of our 200th anniversary. In addition to the visit of Your Majesty and His Royal Highness, Danish programs for the Bicentennial encompass a very broad range of activities in the field of music, art, education, and history. They include the tours by the Royal Danish Ballet and the Copenhagen Boys' Choir, exhibits, presentations of books and musical anthologies to various American universities and conservatories, and very generous gifts to the Kennedy Center and the Government of the Virgin Islands. All of us are very deeply grateful for this thoughtfulness and this generosity.
Denmark perhaps is the only other country which for years has celebrated July 4. A Danish society has met on July 4 for many, many years to reaffirm the very friendly ties between Denmark and the United States.
Your Majesty, Your Royal Highness, once again we bid you a sincere and very hearty welcome.
Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to join me in a toast to Her Majesty and to His Royal Highness. May the friendship between Denmark and the United States continue to grow and may our two nations move toward one another on common objectives of peace, progress, and liberty for all peoples.
  