
    The Rudy Giuliani Presidential Committee today announced five Rhode Island state co-chairs responsible for building support throughout the state and establishing a strong grassroots organization.
Team Rudy's Rhode Island state co-chairs include Republican National Committeeman Robert Manning, Rhode Island Senate Minority Leader Dennis Algiere, Warwick Mayor Scott Avedisian, Former Mayor of Cranston Steve Laffey and Former Rhode Island Republican Party Chairwoman Patricia Morgan.
"Mayor Giuliani can win Rhode Island in the primary and general election," said Giuliani's political director Mark Campbell. "We have a solid and experienced team leading our efforts in the state who will promote Rudy's long record of real results and leadership credentials."
Rhode Island Leadership Team
Republican National Committeeman Robert Manning
Robert Manning is the Republican National Committeeman for Rhode Island, and a member of several corporate and not-for-profit boards.
Manning is President of Gray's Point Investments LLC, a private equity and real estate investment firm.
Previously Manning was with Citibank/Citigroup for 26 years, retiring in 2001 as Managing Director and Head of Corporate Finance for Citigroup Japan.
Senate Minority Leader Dennis Algiere
Rhode Island Senate Minority Leader Dennis L. Algiere represents two Rhode Island shoreline towns, Westerly and Charlestown.
He is a native of Westerly, R.I. and works as a senior vice-president for The Washington Trust Company, a Rhode Island-based financial institution.
The Senator is also involved with a number of community-based organizations.
Mayor Scott Avedisian
Warwick Mayor Scott Avedisian has been the leader of Rhode Island's second largest city since 2000 — winning five elections for Mayor without ever losing a polling place or district.
Before his time as Mayor, he served for five terms as a member of the City Council.
Under his leadership, Warwick was named the 16th safest city in the nation, was named one of the top 100 places to live the country, posted six budget surpluses in a row, led the state in environmental action, and reformed human services and health care for the people of his city.
Former Mayor Steve Laffey
Mayor Laffey grew up in Cranston, Rhode Island and is a graduate of Bowdoin College and Harvard Business School.
After a successful career in business (he was the President and COO of Morgan Keegan, a large investment banking firm), Laffey returned to his home town and became the Mayor of Cranston.
He helped engineer the fastest financial turnaround of any city in recent U.S. history and was reelected by the widest margin in recent history.
Former Rhode Island Republican Party Chairwoman Patricia Morgan
Patricia Morgan recently finished serving two terms as the Rhode Island Republican Chairwoman.
As Chairwoman, she worked closely with the Governor and other elected officials to support a Republican agenda that exposed government corruption, strengthened republican representation in the State House and worked to bring responsible, fiscal management to the state.
Patricia is a financial advisor at Smith Barney and is the mother of three children. She currently resides in West Warwick where she has held various locally appointed positions.
  