
    The President. Thank you all for coming. Thank you all for coming out. Come on, Laura. As you can see, I'm traveling with the A team of the Bush family. We're really glad to be here in Wisconsin, and I want to thank you all for coming out to say hello.
We're on a bus trip because I'm out asking for the vote. I'm here to tell the people of this State I'd like to be your President for 4 more years. And one of the best reasons why is to keep Laura as the First Lady for 4 years.
I'm not really here to politic you too much, but I do want you to know that I've got a plan to win this war on terror, and I've got a plan to spread freedom and peace. That's what I want to do. We're going to have to be tough in the years coming, and we've got to be compassionate too. This economy of ours is getting better. I hope the people in this part of the State are working. I know the farm economy is strong, and that's good for America. It's good for this part of Wisconsin.
I've got a plan to keep us going, so people can find work and realize their dreams. We got some good news today. They added—we added 288,000 new jobs last month. That's a good sign. Part of it has to do with making sure you get to keep more of your own money. That stimulus plan is working.
And finally, my job is to tap into the compassion of America. Let me tell you where the strength of the country is. The strength of the country is in the hearts and souls of our citizens, like the people living right here in Lancaster. That's the strength of this country, and for those of you who are—those of you who are loving your neighbor like you'd like to be loved yourself, I'm here to thank you for that; thanking you for mentoring children; thanking you for feeding the hungry, providing shelter for the homeless; thank you for hearing that universal call—that universal call to help change this country one heart and one soul at a time. My job is to rally the spirit of this great country, and that's what I'm— that's what I'm doing, traveling your great State.
I'm proud you're here, Mr. Mayor. Thanks for coming. Come on up here, Mr. Mayor. I always like to give the mayors advice. My advice is: Fill the potholes. [Laughter] Thanks for coming, Mayor.
[At this point, Mayor Jerry Wehrle of Lancaster made brief remarks and presented the President with a key to the city.]
The President. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Thanks for coming.
Again, thank you all for coming out to say hello. We're kind of heading down the road, but before I leave I do want to say I ask for God's blessings on you, and may God continue to bless our country.
Thank you. God bless.
  