
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Kevin Madden (857) 288-6390
Boston, MA - Today, Governor Mitt Romney issued the following statement on yesterday's Iraq War funding vote in Congress:
"At a time when the men and women of our military fighting terrorism around the globe needed them most, Senators Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama cast a vote that singularly defines their lack of leadership and serves as a glaring example of an unrealistic and inexperienced worldview on national security that is regrettably shared by too many of their fellow Capitol Hill Democrats.
"Voting against our troops during a time of war shows the American people that the leaders of the Democrat Party will abandon principle in favor of political positioning.
"Their votes render them undependable in the eyes of the men and women of the United States military and the American people."
Background On The Iraq War Funding Vote:
Senators Hillary Clinton (D-NY) And Barack Obama (D-IL) Voted Against Providing Funds For Our Troops In Iraq. "Reid, D-Nev., motion to concur in the House amendments to the bill that would appropriate $120 billion in fiscal 2007 emergency spending, including $94.4 billion for military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan. It would establish 18 'benchmarks' for the Iraqi government and require the president to report on progress towards meeting the benchmarks. It would permit, but not require, the president to withhold reconstruction funds if the benchmarks were not met. It would provide $3.1 billion in funding for military base closure expenses, $1.8 billion for veterans medical care, $2.9 billion for hurricane relief, and $3 billion in funding for agriculture disaster relief. It would raise the minimum wage to $7.25 per hour over two years and provide $4.8 billion in small-business tax incentives." (H.R. 2206, CQ Vote # 181: Motion Agreed To 80-14: R 42-3; D 37-10; I 1-1, 5/24/07, Clinton And Obama Voted Nay)
- The Associated Press: "Courting the anti-war constituency, Democratic presidential rivals Hillary Rodham Clinton and Barack Obama both voted against legislation that pays for the Iraq war but lacks a timeline for troop withdrawal." (Liz Sidoti, "Clinton, Obama Vote 'No' On Iraq Bill," The Associated Press, 5/25/07)
  