
    Today, President Donald J. Trump announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key positions in his Administration:
Edward A. Burrier, of the District of Columbia, to be Deputy Chief Executive Officer of the United States International Development Finance Corporation.
Mr. Burrier currently serves as the Executive Vice President for Strategy at the United States International Development Finance Corporation (DFC). From 2017 to 2019, Mr. Burrier served as the Chief Operating Officer and Vice President for External Affairs at DFC's predecessor agency, the Overseas Private Investment Corporation. He was central to the Trump Administration's work with Congress to pass the Better Utilization of Investment Leading to Development (BUILD) Act, the legislation that created DFC.
Previously, Mr. Burrier worked for 18 years on Capitol Hill, including as Deputy Staff Director of the House Foreign Affairs Committee. Mr. Burrier earned his B.A. in Political Science from Mary Washington College and his M.A. in National Security and Strategic Studies from the United States Naval War College.
Michael W. Hail, of Kentucky, to be a Member of the Board of Trustees of the Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation for an additional term.
In addition to his service on the Board of Trustees of the Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation, Dr. Hail serves as Coordinator of Government and Political Science programs and as a Professor of Government at Morehead State University. Dr. Hail was elected to the Somerset Independent Schools Board of Education in Kentucky and serves as its Chairman.
He received his Ph.D. from the University of Delaware and his B.A. from Centre College.
—
Today, President Donald J. Trump announced his intent to appoint the following individuals to key positions in his Administration:
Dianne Moss, of Texas, to be a Member of the President's Commission on White House Fellowships.
Timothy O. Horne, of Colorado, to be a Member of the National Infrastructure Advisory Council.
Philip Anderson, of Washington, to be the United States Commissioner of the Pacific Salmon Commission.
  