
    To the Congress of the United States:
Section 202(d) of the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1622(d)), provides for the automatic termination of a national emergency unless, prior to the anniversary date of its declaration, the President publishes in the Federal Register and transmits to the Congress a notice stating that the emergency is to continue in effect beyond the anniversary date. I have sent the enclosed notice to the Federal Register for publication, stating that the national emergencies declared with respect to the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) (the "FRY (S&M)") in 1992 and with respect to Kosovo in 1998, are to continue beyond May 30, 2001, and June 9, 2001, respectively. The most recent notice continuing these emergencies was published in the Federal Register on May 26, 2000.
With respect to the 1992 national emergency, on December 27, 1995, President Clinton issued Presidential Determination 96-7, directing the Secretary of the Treasury, inter alia, to suspend the application of sanctions imposed on the FRY (S&M) and to continue to block property previously blocked until provision is made to address claims or encumbrances, including the claims of the other successor states of the former Yugoslavia. This sanctions relief, in conformity with United Nations Security Council Resolution 1022 of November 22, 1995 (hereinafter the "Resolution"), was an essential factor motivating Serbia and Montenegro's acceptance of the General Framework Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina initialed in Dayton on November 21, 1995, and signed in Paris on December 14, 1995 (hereinafter the "Peace Agreement").
Sanctions against both the FRY (S&M) and the Bosnian Serbs were subsequently terminated by United Nations Security Council Resolution 1074 of October 1, 1996. This termination, however, did not end the requirement of the Resolution that those blocked funds and assets that are subject to claims and encumbrances remain blocked, until unblocked in accordance with applicable law.
Until the status of all remaining blocked property is resolved, the Peace Agreement implemented, and the terms of the Resolution met, this situation continues to pose an unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security, foreign policy, and economy of the United States. For these reasons, I have determined that the 1992 emergency, and the measures adopted pursuant thereto, must continue beyond May 30, 2001.
With respect to the 1998 national emergency regarding Kosovo, on January 17, 2001, President Clinton issued Executive Order 13192 in view of the peaceful democratic transition begun in the FRY (S&M); the continuing need to promote full implementation of United Nations Security Council Resolution 827 of May 25, 1993, and subsequent resolutions calling for all states to cooperate fully with the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia (ICTY); the illegitimate control over FRY (S&M) political institutions and economic resources or enterprises exercised by former President Slobodan Milosevic, his close associates and other persons, and those individuals' capacity to repress democracy or perpetrate or promote further human rights abuses; and the continuing threat to regional stability and implementation of the Peace Agreement. The order lifts and modifies, with respect to future transactions, most of the economic sanctions imposed against the FRY (S&M) in 1998 and 1999 with regard to the situation in Kosovo. At the same time, the order imposes restrictions on transactions with certain persons described in section 1(a) of the order, namely Slobodan Milosevic, his close associates and supporters and persons under open indictment for war crimes by ICTY. The order also provides for the continued blocking of property or interests in property blocked prior to the order's effective date due to the need to address claims or encumbrances involving such property.
Because the crisis with respect to the situation in Kosovo and with respect to Slobodan Milosevic, his close associates and supporters and persons under open indictment for war crimes by ICTY has not been resolved, and because the status of all previously blocked property has yet to be resolved, this situation continues to pose an unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security and foreign policy of the United States. For these reasons, I have determined that the emergency declared with respect to Kosovo, and the measures adopted pursuant thereto, must continue beyond June 9, 2001.
GEORGE W. BUSH
The White House,
May 24, 2001.
  