
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate four individuals and appoint two individuals to serve in his administration:
The President intends to nominate Ralph Leo Boyce, of Virginia, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Kingdom of Thailand. A career member of the Senior Foreign Service, Ambassador Boyce currently serves as Ambassador to the Republic of Indonesia. He previously served as Deputy Assistant Secretary for Southeast Asia, Australia, New Zealand, and the Pacific Islands at the State Department's Bureau of East Asia and Pacific Affairs. Prior to this position, Ambassador Boyce served as Deputy Chief of Mission in Bangkok and Singapore. He earned his bachelor's degree from The George Washington University and his master's degree from Princeton University.
The President intends to nominate John Marshall Evans, of Virginia, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Armenia. A career member of the Senior Foreign Service, Mr. Evans currently serves as Director of the State Department's Office of Russian Affairs. He previously served as Director of the Office of Analysis for Russia and Eurasia in the Bureau of Intelligence and Research. Mr. Evans earned his bachelor's degree from Yale University.
The President intends to nominate John D. Rood, of Florida, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Commonwealth of the Bahamas. Mr. Rood currently serves as Chairman of The Vestcor Companies, which he founded in 1983. The Jacksonville, Florida company develops multifamily rental and condominium communities, controls a real estate investment portfolio, and provides construction services to its clients. Mr. Rood earned his bachelor's degree from the University of Montana.
The President intends to nominate Craig T. Ramey, of West Virginia, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the National Board for Education Sciences (Researcher), for a two-year term.
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the President's National Security Telecommunications Advisory Committee:
Gary D. Forsee of Missouri
William H. Swanson of Massachusetts
  