
    President Donald J. Trump today announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key positions in his Administration:
Claire M. Grady of Pennsylvania to be Under Secretary for Management, Department of Homeland Security. Ms. Grady assumed the position of the Director, Defense Procurement and Acquisition Policy in June 2015. She serves as the principal advisor to the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology and Logistics and the Defense Acquisition Board on acquisition and procurement strategies for all major weapon systems programs and major automated information systems programs. She also leads policy for Department of Defense services acquisition. From February 2013 through May 2015, she was the Coast Guard's Deputy Assistant Commandant for Acquisition and Director of Acquisition Services. Ms. Grady served as the Coast Guard's Head of the Contracting Activity from 2007-2013. Ms. Grady previously served as the director of strategic initiatives in the Office of the Chief Procurement Officer for the Department of Homeland Security. Ms. Grady received a Bachelor of Arts from Trinity University, a Master of Business Administration from the University of Maryland, and a Master of Science in national resource strategy from National Defense University's Industrial College of the Armed Forces. She holds Level III acquisition professional certifications in contracting and program management. In 2010, Ms. Grady was recognized with the Presidential Rank Award of Meritorious Executive.
David J. Redl of New York to be Assistant Secretary for Communications and Information, Department of Commerce. Mr. Redl is currently Chief Counsel at the U.S. House of Representatives Committee on Energy and Commerce. He serves as principal legal advisor to the Chairman and Members of the Energy and Commerce majority on communications and technology matters. Prior to his time with the Energy and Commerce Committee, Mr. Redl was Director of Regulatory Affairs at CTIA - The Wireless Association, where his work focused on spectrum policy, wireless broadband, and reducing regulatory mandates. Mr. Redl earned a BA in Journalism and a BA in Political Science from the Pennsylvania State University and a JD from the Catholic University of America. Mr. Redl is admitted to the New York and District of Columbia bars. He lives in Falls Church, Virginia with his wife, Amy and their son, Benjamin.
-------
President Donald J. Trump Announces Intent to Designate Members of the Board of Directors of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation
President Donald J. Trump today announced his intent to designate the following individuals to be government representatives on the Board of Directors of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation.

Wilber L. Ross Jr., Secretary of Commerce
Alexander Acosta, Secretary of Labor

  