
    Today, Vice President Kamala Harris delivered the commencement address at the U.S. Military Academy at West Point for the Class of 2023, becoming the first woman in its 221 year history to do so.
In her remarks, Vice President Harris made the case that global security and global prosperity depend on American leadership and strength. She discussed the sources of our military's strength, and how the cadets graduating from West Point will contribute to the strength of our military and the strength of our nation.
Vice Presidents have historically addressed the graduating class at one of the federal service academies on a rotating basis.
Read more below: 
CNN: Harris becomes first woman to deliver commencement address at West Point[Jasmine Wright, 5/27/2023]
[…] In the history-making speech, Harris discussed themes of global security and prosperity, arguing that America's democratic ideals "inspire billions."
"In the face of all these challenges, America plays a singular role of leadership," the vice president told the graduates. "Cadets, global security and global prosperity depend on the leadership of the United States of America. And a strong America remains indispensable to the world." […]
"To the Class of 2023: You join the greatest fighting force the world has ever seen," Harris said Saturday. "And in years to come, I promise you, you will be tried, and you will be tested."
"And I am so very confident that you will rise to each occasion. Whatever comes your way. You are ready. And you are ready because you are true leaders of character."
Harris previously made history in 2021 as the first woman to give a commencement address at the US Naval Academy. Last year, she spoke at the US Coast Guard Academy's graduation ceremony.
NPR: VP Harris becomes the first woman to give a West Point commencement speech[Emma Bowman and Juliana Kim, 5/27/2023]
[…] The watershed moment comes amid the 75th anniversary of two major turning points in the U.S. military — the beginning of women having a permanent place in the armed forces and the end of racial segregation in the military.
"These milestones are a reminder of a fundamental truth," Harris told graduates on Saturday morning. "Our military is strongest when it reflects people of America." […]
Traditionally, vice presidents have delivered the commencement speech to graduating classes at U.S. military academies. Last year, Harris gave the commencement address to U.S. Coast Guard Academy graduates, and in 2021, she became the first female commencement speaker at the U.S. Naval Academy.
Associated Press: VP Harris, 1st woman to give commencement speech at West Point, welcomes cadets to 'unsettled world'[Bobby Calvan, 5/27/2023]
Vice President Kamala Harris, the first woman to deliver a commencement speech at West Point, lauded graduating cadets Saturday for their noble sacrifice in serving their country, but noted they were entering an "unsettled world" because of Russian aggression and the rising threats from China.
"The world has drastically changed," Harris told the roughly 950 graduating cadets. She referred to the global pandemic that took millions of lives and the fraught shifts in global politics in Europe and in Asia.
Harris' visit is her first to the U.S. Army academy. Commencement speakers at the country's military academies are usually delivered by the president, vice president or high-ranking military official — which until Harris' election meant speakers have always been men.
  