
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate six individuals, appoint eleven individuals and designate two individuals to serve in his Administration:
The President intends to nominate Ondray T. Harris, of Virginia, to be Director of the Community Relations Service at the Department of Justice, for a four-year term and designate Acting. Mr. Harris currently serves as Deputy Chief of the Employment Litigation Section of the Civil Rights Division at the Department of Justice. Prior to this, he served as a Partner at Leclair Ryan. Earlier in his career, he served as an Assistant Attorney General for the Commonwealth of Virginia's Office of the Attorney General. Mr. Harris received his bachelor's degree from Hampden-Sydney College and his JD from Washington & Lee University.
The President intends to nominate Diane Auer Jones, of Maryland, to be Assistant Secretary for Postsecondary Education at the Department of Education. Ms. Jones currently serves as Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary for the Office of Postsecondary Education at the Department of Education. Prior to this, she served as Deputy to the Associate Director for Science in the Office of Science and Technology Policy in the Executive Office of the President. Previously, she served as Director of the Office of Government Affairs at Princeton University. Earlier in her career, she served as Program Director in the Division of Undergraduate Education at the National Science Foundation and as an Associate Professor at the Community College of Baltimore County. Additionally, Ms. Jones is the former Chair of the Intellectual Property Working Group within the Council on Federal Relations for the American Association of Universities. Ms. Jones received her bachelor's degree from Salisbury State University and her master's degree from the University of Maryland, Baltimore County.
The President intends to nominate Anne W. Patterson, of Virginia, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Islamic Republic of Pakistan. Ms. Patterson currently serves as Assistant Secretary at the Bureau of International Narcotics and Law Enforcement Affairs at the Department of State. Prior to this, she served as Deputy Permanent Representative at the United States Mission to the United Nations. Earlier in her career, she served as United States Ambassador to Colombia. Ms. Patterson received her bachelor's degree from Wellesley College.
The President intends to nominate Michael Schwartz, of Illinois, to be Member at Large and Chairman of the Railroad Retirement Board for an additional five-year term expiring 08/28/12. Prior to his service on the Railroad Retirement Board, Mr. Schwartz served as Director of the Illinois Department of Central Management Services. Earlier in his career, he served as Associate Director of the Illinois Department of Central Management Services. Mr. Schwartz received his bachelor's degree from Illinois State University and his master's degree from the University of Illinois, Springfield.
The President intends to nominate Jerome F. Kever, of Illinois, to be a Member of the Railroad Retirement Board (Representing Carriers), for the remainder of an additional five-year term expiring 08/28/08. Prior to his service on the Railroad Retirement Board, Mr. Kever served as Vice President and Controller of the Santa Fe Southern Pacific Corporation. Earlier in his career, he served as Director of Internal Audit at Household International. Mr. Kever is a Certified Public Accountant and received his bachelor's degree from Indiana University.
The President intends to nominate Virgil M. Speakman, Jr., of Ohio, to be a Member of the Railroad Retirement Board (Representing Employees), for the remainder of an additional five-year term expiring 08/28/09. Prior to his service on the Railroad Retirement Board, Mr. Speakman served as President of the Brotherhood of Railroad Signalmen. Mr. Speakman began his railroad career as a signalman and foreman on the old Pennsylvania Railroad.
The President intends to appoint Charles E. F. Millard, of New York, to be Interim Director of the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation. Mr. Millard currently serves as Managing Director of Broadway Partners, LLC. Prior to this, he served as a Managing Director at Lehman Brothers. Earlier in his career, he served as Group Head and Managing Director of Prudential Securities. Mr. Millard received his bachelor's degree from the College of the Holy Cross and his JD from Columbia University.
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the Commission for the Preservation of America's Heritage Abroad:
Linda Leuchter Addison, of Texas, for an additional three-year term expiring 02/27/10;
Ronald H. Bloom, of California, for an additional three-year term expiring 02/27/10;
Amy S. Epstein, of Florida (Representing then Speaker of the House of Representatives, Dennis Hastert), for the remainder of a three year term expiring 08/09/08;
Tyrone Fahner of Illinois (Representing then President pro tempore of the Senate, Ted Stevens), for the remainder of a three-year term expiring 07/13/08;
Andrew M. Klein, of Maryland, for an additional three-year term expiring 02/27/10;
Michael A. Menis, of Illinois (Representing then Speaker of the House of Representatives, Dennis Hastert), for the remainder of a three-year term expiring 06/24/07 and an additional term expiring on 06/24/10;
Warren Lloyd Miller, of Virginia (Representing then President pro tempore of the Senate, Ted Stevens), for the remainder of a three-year term expiring 07/13/07 and an additional three-year term expiring 07/13/10 and upon appointment re-designate Chair;
Harriet Rotter, of Michigan (Representing then Speaker of the House of Representatives, Dennis Hastert), for the remainder of a three-year term expiring 08/09/07 and an additional three-year term expiring 08/09/10;
Steven Edward Some, of New Jersey (Representing then Speaker of the House of Representatives, Dennis Hastert), for the remainder of a three-year term expiring 08/02/08;
Robert Zarnegin, of California, for an additional three-year term expiring 02/27/10.
  