
    "If President Obama's Ohio campaign promises sounded familiar for Americans struggling to find good-paying jobs, it's because we've heard it all before. After more than three years of failed economic policies, President Obama has left Americans with fewer jobs, declining incomes, and skyrocketing expenses." –Andrea Saul, Romney Campaign Spokesperson
Four Years After Promising Ohioans He Would "Create The Good-Paying Jobs Of Tomorrow," Ohio Still Has Nearly Half A Million Unemployed Workers:
President Obama, This Weekend In Ohio: "If You're Willing To Work Hard, You Should Be Able To Find A Good Job." OBAMA: "If you're willing to work hard, you should be able to find a good job. If you're willing to meet your responsibilities, you should be able to own a home, maybe start a business, give your children the chance to do even better -- no matter who you are, or where you come from, or what you look like, or what your last name is." (President Barack Obama, Remarks, Columbus, OH, 5/5/12)


    Candidate Obama, Nearly Four Years Ago In Ohio: "It's Time To Create The Good-Paying Jobs Of Tomorrow." OBAMA: "We know that it's time to create the good-paying jobs of tomorrow. Ohio is hurting. 12,000 jobs have been lost this year. You've got 7.4 percent unemployment. Wages are flat-lining." (Sen. Barack Obama, Remarks, Chillicothe, OH, 10/10/08)
  

Ohio Currently Has 437,978 Unemployed Workers. (Bureau Of Labor Statistics, www.bls.gov, Accessed 5/6/12)
During President Obama's Time In Office, Ohio Has Lost 67,100 Jobs. (Bureau Of Labor Statistics, www.bls.gov, Accessed 5/6/12)
President Obama Promised Ohio He Would Create Jobs By "Rebuilding Our Roads And Bridges" – Despite Failing To Do So With His Trillion-Dollar Stimulus:
President Obama, This Weekend In Ohio: "Repair Our Roads And Our Bridges ... That's The Choice In This Election -- To Rebuild America." OBAMA: "I will use half of what we're no longer spending on war to pay down the deficit, and the other half to repair our roads and our bridges, our runways and our wireless networks. That's the choice in this election -- to rebuild America." (President Barack Obama, Remarks, Columbus, OH, 5/5/12)


    Candidate Obama, Four Years Ago In Ohio: "We Can Also Invest In American Jobs By Investing In America, And Rebuilding Our Roads And Bridges." OBAMA: "We can also invest in American jobs by investing in America, and rebuilding our roads and bridges. ... This will multiply into almost half a trillion dollars of additional infrastructure spending and generate nearly two million new jobs - many of them in the construction industry that's been hard hit by the housing crisis we're facing." (Senator Barack Obama, Remarks, Lorain, OH, 2/24/08)
  

President Obama's Trillion-Dollar Stimulus "Spending On Roads And Bridges 'Had No Effect On Local Unemployment And Only Barely Helped The Beleaguered Construction Industry.'" A January 2010 Associated Press analysis of Recovery Act spending on roads and bridges 'had no effect on local unemployment and only barely helped the beleaguered construction industry,' regardless of how many dollars lawmakers threw at the various projects." (Devin Dwyer, "Shovel-Ready, Take II: Would Obama Infrastructure Plan Create Jobs Now," ABC News, 9/8/11)
"Government Has Stimulated Little ... Through One Of Its Most Vaunted Programs -- Road Construction." "President Obama's top economist gave administration support for a new $75 billion stimulus plan that passed the House last month, but a new analysis shows the government has stimulated little in the past year through one of its most vaunted programs -- road construction." ("More Stimulus? Analysis Finds Funds For Roads, Bridges Has Had No Impact," Fox News, 1/11/10)
Since President Obama Took Office, Ohio Has Lost 22,700 Construction Jobs. (Bureau Of Labor Statistics, www.bls.gov, Accessed 5/6/12)
President Obama Promised Ohio He Would Fix The Economy That Left Americans "Without Homes" – But Four Years Later Ohio Is Still Suffering From The Housing Crisis:
President Obama, This Weekend In Ohio: "I've Heard From Too Many People Wondering ... Why Their Home Is Still Under Water..." OBAMA: "Too many of our friends, too many of our neighbors are still hurting because of this crisis. I've heard from too many people wondering why they haven't been able to get one of the jobs that have been created; why their home is still under water; why their family hasn't yet been touched by the recovery." (President Barack Obama, Remarks, Columbus, OH, 5/5/12)


    Candidate Obama, Nearly Four Years Ago In Ohio: "So Many Americans Without Jobs And Without Homes." OBAMA "Together, we cannot fail. Not now. Not when we have a crisis to solve and an economy to save. Not when there are so many Americans without jobs and without homes. Not when there are families who can't afford to see a doctor, or send their child to college, or pay their bills at the end of the month." (Sen. Barack Obama, Remarks, Toledo, OH, 10/13/08)
  

In 2011, Ohio Had The Eleventh Highest Foreclosure Rate In The Nation. "But there's trouble looming on another front: the housing market's still struggling, especially in states key to his reelection prospects. Four of the biggest battlegrounds — Michigan, Florida, California and Nevada — are among the top 10 states with the highest foreclosure rates. Ohio, central to every presidential campaign, is ranked at number 11." (Joseph Williams, "Foreclosures May Dog Obama," Politico, 2/9/12)
"Ohio Has The Nation's Ninth Highest Percentage Of Mortgages Under Water." "Nearly a quarter of Ohio homeowners were drowning in mortgage debt at the end of last year, based on figures from housing data tracker, CoreLogic. That was slightly higher than the U.S. rate of about 23 percent of all residential properties. Nationally, that means about 11 million homeowners are under water. Ohio has the nation's ninth highest percentage of mortgages under water." (Randy Tucker, "Mortgages Exceeding Home Values, Restraining Growth," The Dayton Daily News, 3/9/12)
  