
    AT THE invitation of His Imperial Majesty the Shahanshah Arya Mehr and Her Imperial Majesty the Shahbanou of Iran, the President of the United States of America and Mrs. Richard Nixon paid an official visit to Iran from May 30 to May 31, 1972. The President and Mrs. Nixon were received with exceptional friendliness and warmth by Their Imperial Majesties and by the Government and people of Iran.
During his visit the President held discussions with His Imperial Majesty the Shahanshah in a warm and cordial atmosphere, reflecting the close and friendly relations that exist between the two countries.
The President and His Imperial Majesty discussed recent developments on the international scene. The President told His Imperial Majesty of his visits to Moscow and Peking and of his efforts to reduce East-West tensions and restore peace and stability to Southeast Asia. They held the view that the conflict in Indochina should be settled through negotiations and that the Geneva agreements could serve as a basis for resolving problems among the states in the area and for guaranteeing their right of self-determination without any outside interference.
The President and His Imperial Majesty also discussed developments in the Middle East. They were gratified that a cease-fire continues to be observed but expressed their concern over the serious situation existing in the Middle East and reaffirmed their support for a peaceful settlement in accordance with Security Council Resolution 242.
The President and His Imperial Majesty agreed that the security and stability of the Persian Gulf is of vital importance to the littoral States, Both were of the view that the littoral States bore the primary responsibility for the security of the Persian Gulf.
His Imperial Majesty reaffirmed Iran's determination to bear its share of this responsibility.
The President and His Imperial Majesty also agreed that the economic development and welfare of the bordering States of the Persian Gulf are of importance to the stability of the region. Iran declared itself ready and willing to cooperate with its neighbors in fostering an atmosphere in which stability and progress can flourish.
The President and His Imperial Majesty voiced the hope that Pakistan and India would find ways to reach a just and honorable settlement of the existing issues. They noted with satisfaction the initiative taken by both countries for meetings which hold the promise through further talks of progress toward a peaceful settlement in South Asia built on lasting relationships of friendship and mutual respect.
The President expressed his admiration for Iran's impressive record in the development of a strong economy and the successful implementation of His Imperial Majesty's "White Revolution." His Imperial Majesty outlined the main features of Iran's new five year plan with particular emphasis on agro-industry and socio-economic projects. The President reiterated the readiness of the United States to cooperate with Iran as appropriate in this extensive program and important enterprise.
The President and His Imperial Majesty also discussed the worldwide narcotics problem. They noted that Iran and the United States were taking vigorous action against the illicit international narcotics traffic. Both took satisfaction in Iran's effective measures to control domestic opium production. The President expressed understanding of Iran's declared policy to cease internal cultivation of the opium poppy when Iran's neighbors also cease internal cultivation of the opium poppy. They agreed that the two governments should continue their close cooperation in international forums dealing with narcotic matters. The President noted with appreciation the active support provided by Iran at the recent United Nations conference which adopted a protocol amending the 1961 single conventions on narcotic drugs. The President reaffirmed United States' support for regional cooperation in solving international narcotics problems.
Both sides expressed deep satisfaction over the excellence of relations between their two countries and the expectation that they would continue in the future. His Imperial Majesty stressed once again Iran's determination to strengthen its defensive capability to ensure the nation's security. The President confirmed that the United States would, as in the past, continue to cooperate with Iran in strengthening its defenses. They reaffirmed their respect for the sovereign right of every nation to choose its own destiny in its own way without any outside interference.
In expressing appreciation for the warm hospitality shown him and Mrs. Nixon, the President invited Their Imperial Majesties to visit the United States at a mutually convenient time. The invitation was accepted with deep appreciation.
  