
    THE PRESIDENT. This is one of those delightful occasions that warms the heart of a President or any other person who loves our Nation and who admires great achievement and great courage.
I was one of the executive officers in the Lion's International Organization. And our major project, not only in this country but in more than 100 other nations, is concerning eyesight, the conservation of eyesight, and also the ability to meet the needs of those who happen to be blind, but who have an open heart and an open mind that can see and understand the world around them.
One of the most delightful achievements in our Nation is the development of a superb library of books and other materials for those who are blind, but who have not let this physical affliction interfere with their hunger for knowledge and the development of themselves.
There are several thousand volunteers in 29 centers around the country—one in Athens, Georgia; I just learned, one in Oak Ridge, Tennessee, where I'll be going this weekend—who record the texts of books of all kinds.
In addition, the organization that produces these library facilities for blind people award scholarships each year for outstanding students who want to continue their education, who happen to be blind.
On my right are four of those students to whom I will present awards in a few moments. But I would like to congratulate them on behalf of their fellow citizens in our great country for demonstrating that there is no constraint on the achievement of a physically handicapped person. Not only have they honored me by coming, made their families proud, demonstrated the efficacy of a fine organization and its work, but they can act and do act as an inspiration to other Americans who want high achievement and who need additional courage and example to follow.
So, I want to congratulate all four of you and point out that these four future lawyers that— [laughter] —I am sure, will fill a very useful place in our society. And I look forward with great interest to having you join the ranks of those who believe in the finest aspects of the law and want to pursue justice, from the vantage point of one who knows a need for opportunity for all.
So, thank you again for coming and honoring me by your presence, and I will now give the achievement awards to each of you.
The first one is to Harry John Miller II. And, I'd like to read it first.
"The Board of Directors of Recording for the Blind, Incorporated, present this scholastic achievement award to Harry John Miller II in recognition of the extraordinary scholarship, determination, and intellectual vigor displayed in earning the degree of Bachelor of Arts from Arizona State University."
It's a great honor for me to present this to you.
MR. MILLER. Thank you very much, Mr. President. God bless you, sir.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you. The envelope contains a check. [Laughter]
The next one is to Christopher John Palano. "The Board of Directors of Recording for the Blind, Incorporated, present this scholarship achievement award to Christopher John Palano in recognition of the extraordinary scholarship, determination, and intellectual vigor displayed in earning the degree of Bachelor of Arts from Clark University."
I present this to you with my congratulations and best wishes.
MR. PALANO. Thank you, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. And now Merilyn Carol Rosenthal, who, by the way, will be the first blind woman to attend the Harvard Law School.
"The Board of Directors of Recording for the Blind, Incorporated, present this scholastic achievement award to Merilyn Carol Rosenthal in recognition of the extraordinary scholarship, determination, and intellectual vigor displayed in earning the degree of Bachelor of Arts from the Douglas College of Rutgers University." Congratulations to you.
MISS ROSENTHAL. Thank you, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Good luck to you. This next award is to John Britt DeLuca, who, I noticed, wears a Phi Beta Kappa key on his lapel. "The Board of Directors of Recording for the Blind, Incorporated, present this scholastic achievement award to John Britt DeLuca in recognition of the extraordinary scholarship, determination, and intellectual vigor displayed in earning the Bachelor of Arts degree from Duke University."
John Britt DeLuca, congratulations to you.
MR. DELUCA. Thank you very much.
PETER B. PUTNAM. Mr. President, some years ago, I remember attending an Independence Day celebration for Switzerland, and at the time, the person who spoke said this is a country with no natural resources, what it had was human resources. We've been very blessed with natural resources, but I still think our human resources are our most important asset.
And I would like to pay tribute to the volunteer readers who are the human resources to help develop these human resources, and they have been of extraordinary help to us. They're not just ordinary men and women, they are highly educated, highly skilled, highly trained.
And you mentioned our studio in Oak Ridge. We had to found that because we had to get nuclear scientists to read the kind of advanced mathematics and physics our students were studying. And they are extraordinary people.
We have an award that we give to our volunteers. And I don't know who in the world wants to wear a necktie today, but I would like you to have it. [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much. I might point out as a matter of interest that these four students on my right in their achievement of their bachelors degrees have studied and, I presume, mastered a total of 639 books, all recorded by volunteers and all included in the library of more than 35,000 volumes now available to blind people in our country.
So, I would like to congratulate all of you and express my appreciation, also, for the volunteers and others who make this wonderful program possible.
Thank you very much.
  