
    In another sign of Hillary's growing support across Oregon, the Clinton campaign today announced the endorsement of more than 50 local elected officials from across the Beaver State.
"I am grateful to have such strong support across all of Oregon," said Senator Hillary Clinton. "I am committed to talking about the issues that matter to Oregonians - from creating new 'green collar' jobs, to protecting our environment and standing up for Oregon's rural communities."
These endorsements come on the heels of the Clinton campaign's statewide grassroots push this weekend as ballots arrived. Over the weekend, the Clinton campaign held community canvasses in all 36 counties and hosted 88 Women for Hillary house parties to celebrate 88 years of women's suffrage.
"After eight years of George W. Bush, we need a President who can immediately start to clean up his mess and start solving problems again," said Eugene State Representative Sara Gelser. "I'm supporting Hillary because she is the candidate who is best suited to beat John McCain in the fall and bring our country back."
"I believe that Hillary Clinton is the best choice for all Oregonians," said Milwaukie Mayor Jim Bernard. "Throughout this primary, she has listened to Oregonians. Her Oregon Compact reflects the knowledge and experience that comes from decades in public service. And her proposal for two Oregon debates shows that she is not taking our state for granted. I couldn't be prouder to be supporting Hillary."
"I'm proud to be standing with Hillary," said Greenhorn Mayor Frances Villwock. "Hillary has been fighting for change for the past 35 years and I know she is our best candidate to take on the Republicans in November. Hillary is also the only candidate with a plan for truly universal healthcare."
"Hillary has the strength and experience to start solving the big challenges we face on day one," said Lincoln City Councilor Doug Holbrook. "She has reached out directly to Oregonians and talked about the issues that are important to us. Hillary has the strength and experience to put her plan for truly universal healthcare into action. Hillary isn't taking Oregon for granted and I'm proud to be supporting her."
FULL LISTED OF LOCAL ELECTED OFFICIALS ENDORSING HILLARY:
Ted Kulongoski, Governor
Darlene Hooley, United States Congress
Vicki Walker, State Senator
Ginny Burdick, State Senator
Laurie Monnes Anderson, State Senator
Sara Gelser, State Representative
Deborah Boone, State Representative
Mitch Greenlick, State Representative
Carolyn Tomei, State Representative
Diana Simpson, Sheriff, Benton
Annabelle Jaramillo, Commissioner, Benton
Martha Schrader, Commissioner, Clackamas
Mike Dugan, District Attorney, Deschutes
Bill Dwyer, Commissioner, Lane
Lonnie Roberts, Commissioner, Multnomah
Desari Strader, Commissioner, Washington
Maria Rojo de Steffey, Commissioner, Multnomah
James White, Mayor, Depoe Bay
John McArdle, Mayor, Independence
Les Paustian, Mayor, Heppner
Jerry Cole, Mayor, Rainier
Linda Malone, Mayor, Sandy
Cheri Olson, Mayor, North Plains
John Oberst, Mayor, Monmouth
Lori Hollingsworth, Mayor, Lincoln City
Susan Walker, Mayor, Nyssa
Tom Hughes, Mayor, Hillsboro
James W. Lewis, Mayor, Jacksonville
James Bernard, Mayor, Milwaukie
Frances Villwock, Mayor, Greenhorn
Mary Schamehorn, Mayor, Bandon
Kathryn Harrington, Metro Councilor, Portland
Betty Taylor, City Councilor, Eugene
Markley Drake, City Councilor, Happy Valley
Cynthia O'Donnell, City Councilor, Hillsboro
Carrie Nelson, City Councilor, Hood River
Nancy Lodge, City Councilor, Independence
Rick Brissette, City Councilor, Lincoln City
Doug Holbrook, City Councilor, Lincoln City
Patricia Daniels, City Councilor, Corvallis
Deborah Barnes, City Councilor, Milwaukie
Mike Claassen, City Councilor, Bandon
Betty Bode, City Councilor, Beaverton
Charlie Crawford, City Councilor, Philomath
Marion Brown, City Councilor, Falls City
Cathy Stanton, City Councilor, Beaverton
Charlie Crawford, City Councilor, Philomath
William Beers, City Councilor, Rufus
Sharon Nolan, City Councilor, Rufus
Sydney Sherwood, City Councilor, Tigard
Don Clyde, City Councilor, Bay City
Sam Steidel, City Councilor, Cannon Beach
  