
    President George W. Bush today announced the laureates of the 2001 National Medals of Science and National Medals of Technology, the nation's highest science and technology honors.
The National Medal of Science honors individuals in a variety of fields for pioneering scientific research that has enhanced our basic understanding of life and the world around us. The National Science Foundation administers the award established by Congress in 1959. Including this year's laureates, the honor has been conferred on 401 distinguished scientists and engineers. More information about the National Medal of Science is available at http://www.nsf.gov/nsb/awards/nms/.
The National Medal of Technology recognizes men and women who embody the spirit of American innovation and have advanced the nation's global competitiveness. Their groundbreaking contributions commercialize technologies, create jobs, improve productivity and stimulate the nation's growth and development. This award was established by Congress in 1980 and is administered by the Department of Commerce. Including this year's laureates, this honor has been bestowed on 120 individuals and 12 companies. More information about the National Medal of Technology can be found at http://www.ta.doc.gov/Medal/.
The 2001 National Medal of Science Laureates for 2001:
Behavioral/Social Sciences

George F. Bass, Texas A&M University, College Station, Texas

Biological Sciences

Francisco J. Ayala, The University of California at Irvine, Irvine, Calif.
Mario R. Capecchi, University of Utah School of Medicine, Salt Lake City, Utah
Ann M. Graybiel, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Mass.
Gene E. Likens, Institute of Ecosystem Studies, Millbrook, N.Y.
Victor A. McKusick, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine Hospital, Baltimore, MD
Harold Varmus, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, New York, N.Y.

Chemistry

Ernest R. Davidson, Indiana University, Bloomington, Ind.
Gabor A. Somorjai, University of California, Berkeley, and Lawrence Berkeley National Lab, Berkeley, Calif.

Engineering

Andreas Acrivos, City College of the City University of New York, New York, N.Y.

Mathematics

Calyampudi R. Rao, Pennsylvania State University, University Park, Pa., and University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA
Elias M. Stein, Princeton University, Princeton, N.J.

Physical Sciences

Marvin L. Cohen, University of California, Berkeley, and Lawrence Berkeley National Lab, Berkeley, Calif.
Raymond Davis Jr., University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA
Charles D. Keeling, Scripps Institution of Oceanography, La Jolla, Calif.

The 2001 National Medal of Technology Laureates for 2001:

John A. Ewen, Catalyst Research Corporation, Houston, Texas
Arun N. Netravali, Lucent Technologies -- Bell Labs, Murray Hill, N.J.
Sidney Pestka, University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey-Robert Wood Johnson Medical School, Piscataway, N.J.
Jerry M. Woodall, Yale University, New Haven, Conn.
The Dow Chemical Company, Midland, Mich.

  