
    Well, thank you very much. And I want to start by saying happy Memorial Day. Happy Memorial Day. It's a great day.
Thank you very much. And you know, we had a tremendous couple of days with the Prime Minister. He's a great gentleman, great leader. And I just want to say that our First Lady and I are very honored to be here today on the JS Kaga. That's a great ship. They love this ship. You all love the ship, right? You feel good about it, don't you? I do too. I feel very safe on this.
And I'm honored to be with my friend, the Prime Minister, and Mrs. Abe, and the extraordinary men and women of the United States Navy's Seventh Fleet and the Japanese Maritime Self-Defense Forces.
It was a great honor last night and this morning to meet and greet your new Emperor and Empress, two very, very special people. Spectacular. And we got to know them, and they're going to do a tremendous job for Japan. Going to make you very proud.
On behalf of the First Lady and myself, I want to take a moment to send our prayers and sympathy to the victims of the stabbing attack this morning in Tokyo. All Americans stand with the people of Japan and grieve for the victims and for their families.
Our thanks to Ambassador Hagerty, Mrs. Hagerty, Vice Admiral Phil Sawyer, and Rear Admiral Gregory Fenton for joining us today. Thank you very much. Thank you.
My thanks as well to Admiral Hiroshi Yamamura and also to Captain Hideki Mizuta, who commands this magnificent ship, for joining us today. Thank you very much. I appreciate it.
At this very historic moment, as Japan begins Reiwa and the Reiwa era, we celebrate the U.S.-Japan alliance and the friendship between our freedom-loving peoples. Our armed forces train and serve together around the world, including right here. Very special. In fact, this is the only port in the world where an American naval fleet and an allied naval fleet are headquartered side by side. The American and Japanese sailors stationed in this bay are living testaments to the enduring power of our incredible partnership.
As you know, Japan recently announced its intent to purchase 105 brandnew, stealth F-35 fighter aircraft. The best in the world. This purchase would give Japan the largest fleet of F-35s of any of our allies. And soon, this very ship will be upgraded to carry that cutting-edge aircraft. With this extraordinary new equipment, the JS Kaga will help our nations defend against a range of complex threats in the region and far beyond.
I want to thank my friend and your Prime Minister—he's an extraordinary man—for his commitment to improving Japan's defense capabilities, which also advances the security of the United States of America.
And to all of the incredible American and Japanese servicemembers here today, it has been a true privilege to visit with you. On behalf of all Americans, we extend our deep gratitude for everything you do to safeguard our people.
Again, thank you. God bless you all. Thank you very much.
  