
    South Carolina State Senator John Scott and Henderson, Nevada, Councilwoman Gerri Schroder have endorsed Kamala Harris for President. Scott represents Senate District 19 in Richland County, SC. He previously served on the Richland County Council and in the South Carolina House of Representatives. Schroder was elected in 2007, representing Ward 1 in Henderson, NV, the state's second largest city. She is the only Asian and Pacific Islander American (APIA) currently elected to a city council in Nevada.
Harris visited the Palmetto State last week to meet with educators and community leaders for a roundtable discussion focused on the importance of raising teacher pay. Teachers in South Carolina participated in a Day of Reflection on May 1 to protest ongoing education issues. On April 27, Harris made a campaign stop in Las Vegas to participate in the SEIU/Center for American Progress National Forum on Wages and Working People and to meet with the Culinary Workers Union.
"Kamala Harris has a vision and a plan for the working people of South Carolina," said Scott. "On each visit to our state, she has stressed the importance of investing in our institutions of higher learning with a focus on the positive impact HBCUs have in Black communities. She has also repeatedly visited oft-ignored rural areas and outlined her vision for economic development while speaking to local concerns like hospital closure and failing water infrastructure. She is a leader for everyday people and I'm proud to join her in this fight to move our nation forward."
"The prospect of the first woman president and the first president of Asian descent is incredibly exciting," said Schroder. "With so much at stake, we need a bold champion for the people in the White House who understands the issues that matter and that our diversity is a strength to be celebrated not a weakness to be scapegoated."
"I am proud to have John and Gerri's endorsements in this race," Harris said. "As I campaign across this nation, I hear the same refrain: health care is a right, we need to fully fund public education, and we need an economy that works for working people. With their support and as champions for these issues, together we will continue to present a clear vision for our country's future."
Schroder joins Chris Miller, former Chair of the Clark County Democratic Party and State Senator Pat Spearman in endorsing Harris in Nevada. Nevada will hold its caucus contests on Tuesday, February 23, the third state in the 2020 primary schedule. In South Carolina, Harris has previously been endorsed by I.S. Leevy, Bakari Sellers, Representative JA Moore, Representative Pat Henegen, Senator Darrell Jackson, former gubernatorial candidate Marguerite Willis, and Berkeley County Democratic Chair Melissa Watson.
  