
    "America is being respected again, and America is winning again, because we are finally putting America first. -President Donald J. Trump
PROTECTING AMERICAN AUTOS: President Donald J. Trump is taking action to protect the American automobile industry, its workforce, and American innovation.

Today, President Trump issued a proclamation directing his Administration to pursue negotiations to protect the American automobile industry.
At the President's direction, the United States Trade Representative will immediately pursue negotiations to address the national security threat caused by imports of foreign-made automobiles and parts.
If insufficient progress is made to address the national security threat after 180 days, President Trump will determine whether and what further action needs to be taken.

DEFENDING OUR ECONOMIC SECURITY: Our domestic automobile industry is threatened by excessive imports of foreign-made automobiles and automobile parts.

These actions follow an investigation by the Department of Commerce, which identified significant foreign threats to the American-owned automobile industry.
Our Nation's defense and military superiority depends on the competitiveness of our automobile industry and the research and development that it generates.

The United States defense industrial base depends on the American-owned automotive sector for innovation and technologies that are essential to our national security.


American-owned producers' share of the global automobile market fell from 36 percent in 1995 to just 12 percent in 2017.

Further, American-made automobiles now account for only 22 percent of automobiles sold in the United States.


Production of American-made autos has been declining for years, while foreign-made imports have flooded the United States market.

In 2017 alone, the United States imported over $191 billion worth of automobiles.


Unfair trade barriers, like those in the European Union, Japan, and other countries, further exacerbate the effects of imports on American automobile producers.
Excessive imports have weakened American producers' ability to invest in research and develop new technologies.

PUTTING AMERICA FIRST: President Trump is working to ensure our trade relationships protect our national security, defend our economic interests, and safeguard American innovation.

Last year, President Trump implemented tariffs to protect our steel and aluminum manufacturers, which are vital to our national security.
The President negotiated the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement (USMCA), which will be an incredible boost to American automotive manufacturing.

USMCA is projected to generate $34 billion in new automotive manufacturing investments and 76,000 automobile industry jobs in the United States.


President Trump also took action to significantly improve the United States-Korea Free Trade Agreement, securing key improvements to help protect America's automobile industry.

  