
    The following listing includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the White House Press Office and not included elsewhere in this issue.
May 5
The President returned to the White House from a trip to Iowa and California.
May 7
The President met at the White House with:
—Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs;
—Frank B. Moore, Assistant to the President for Congressional Liaison;
—Representative Ed Jenkins of Georgia;
—the Cabinet;
—administration officials and environmental and community leaders to discuss nuclear power;
—Vice President Walter F. Mondale;
—Oklahoma State officials and farmers from Elk City, Okla.
May 8
The President met at the White House with:
—David L. Aaron, Deputy Assistant for National Security Affairs;
—Mr. Moore;
—the Democratic congressional leadership;
—a group of Senators to discuss the Environmental Protection Agency's proposed emission standards for the coal industry;
—James T. Mcintyre, Jr., Director of the Office of Management and Budget.
The President attended a portion of the briefing by administration officials given for black community and civic leaders from Texas, Oklahoma, and Louisiana in the State Dining Room at the White House.
The President participated in a briefing by administration officials on the Panama Canal treaty implementation legislation given for a group of Congressmen in the East Room at the White House.
The President last night declared a major disaster for the State of Tennessee as a result of severe storms, tornadoes, and flooding, beginning on or about May 3, which caused extensive private property damage.
The President transmitted to the Congress the 1975 annual report on occupational safety and health.
May 9
The President met at the White House with:
—Vice President Mondale, Secretary of the Treasury W. Michael Blumenthal, Charles L. Schultze, Chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers, Alfred E. Kahn, Advisor to the President on Inflation and Chairman of the Council on Wage and Price Stability, Barry P. Bosworth, Director of the Council on Wage and Price Stability, Stuart E. Eizenstat, Assistant to the President for Domestic Affairs and Policy, and Mr. Mcintyre;
—Mr. Moore, Danny C. Tate, Deputy Assistant for Congressional Liaison (Senate), Robert G. Beckel, Special Assistant for Congressional Liaison (House), and Robert W. Maher, Special Assistant for Congressional Liaison (House);
—Vice President Mondale, Stansfield Turner, Director of Central Intelligence, Hamilton Jordan, Assistant to the President, and Dr. Brzezinski;
—His Holiness Justin, Patriarch of the Romanian Orthodox Church;
—members of the national advisory board of the National Center of Economic Education for Children;
—Nancy Katz and Michael A. Allara, the Multiple Sclerosis Mother and Father of the Year, and officials of the National Multiple Sclerosis Society and its District of Columbia chapter.
May 10
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Mr. Moore.
In a ceremony in the Oval Office, the President received diplomatic credentials from Ambassadors Ousman Ahmadou Sallah of the Republic of Gambia, Yao Grunitzky of the Republic of Togo, Mamady Lamine Conde of the People's Revolutionary Republic of Guinea, and Ionatana Ionatana of Tuvalu.
The President transmitted to the Congress the first annual report of the Department of Energy.
May 11
The President met at the White House with:
—Vice President Mondale, Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance, Secretary of Defense Harold Brown, Dr. Brzezinski, and Mr. Jordan;
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Mr. Moore;
—the Cabinet;
—a group of editors and news directors (transcript will be printed next week);
—Gov. Fob James of Alabama. The President participated in a briefing on the administration's programs and policies given for civic and community leaders from Alabama in the East Room at the White House.
The President left the White House for Andrews Air Force Base, Md., where he met Mrs. Carter on her return from her overseas trip. They then went on to Camp Hoover, Va., for a weekend stay.
  