
    Governor Sanford, Senator Ervin, Senator Jordan, Members of the Congress, ladies and gentlemen:
We are so happy to be here in your great progressive State that has for so many years attracted the attention and set the example for all this great section of the United States.
I apologize to you for being so late. We didn't anticipate when we left Washington this morning to cover five States that we would get the opportunity of seeing so many people, shaking so many hands, looking into so many friendly faces. This has been truly a stimulating and inspiring experience for me.
If you ever need pepping up a little bit in Washington, all you have to do is get on the plane and go out and see the people. They are the optimistic group. They know we have much in this country to preserve, much to protect. They love our country, and they want guidance and leadership in what we can do to make a better land.
In the Congress we have a program pending which we are working on, and we hope to discuss that with you later in the day. I have two more appearances that I must make. Any of you that happens to be here when I return, I will be glad to have another little visit with you.
In the meantime, I want you to know that we deeply appreciate the outstanding service that your congressional delegation has rendered, that we thank you for sending them to Washington, that we want to cooperate with you in doing everything we can that is for the good of America, that we believe in protecting every person's constitutional rights, that we believe in giving every child an education, we believe in seeing that people have an opportunity to work and earn their living, we want to make this a country of taxpayers instead of a country of taxeaters, that we have a progressive and prudent administration that is trying to move ahead and still keep both feet on the ground.
We are honored that so many of you would come here to welcome us. I am sorry Mrs. Johnson can't be with us today, but I brought her fill-in, my oldest daughter, Lynda Bird. And although as far as today is concerned she is a school dropout, I am mighty happy to have her along and I would like to introduce her at this time.
Lynda Bird.
[At this point Lynda Bird responded briefly saying she did not feel as though she had lost a day of school because she had had "a cram course in geography, history, as well as physical education" trying to keep up with her lather. The President then resumed speaking.]
I want to thank your fighting Governor and his wife, your two able Senators, and the Members of your delegation for meeting us here and for going on with us to where we are going now. I want to tell you that when we come to see conditions in the country and on a trip to meet the people, we also bring the people who can get the job done.
I want to present to you some members of my Cabinet who came along to see firsthand today the conditions in the interior of the United States.
First of all the Secretary of Agriculture, the Honorable Orville freeman.
Next the Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare, Mr. Anthony Celebrezze.
Next the very distinguished Under Secretary of Commerce, the Honorable Franklin D. Roosevelt, Jr.
Next the Director of the Housing and Home finance Agency, Dr. Robert Weaver.
And next the head of the TVA, Mr. Wagner.
Ladies and gentlemen, I am going to come out and say howdy to a few of you. We need to be gone from here in 5 minutes. We'll be back as soon as the sun lets down. It has been wonderful to see you.
Thank you for your gracious welcome.
  