
    To the Congress of the United States:
Pursuant to Title IV of the International Development and Food Assistance Act of 1978, I transmit herewith regulations affecting the personnel system of the Agency for International Development, together with explanatory information. The purpose of these regulations is to extend the Foreign Service personnel system to all employees of AID in the United States and abroad who are responsible for planning and implementing AID's overseas development program and activities.
These regulations provide that by October 1, 1979, all positions in AID shall be designated as to the personnel service in which the incumbent should serve. Positions will be designated as Foreign Service unless the position is in the United States and unless it is determined that the functions of the position are primarily of a support character and can be performed without significant overseas experience or understanding of the overseas development process, or that the position requires continuity of incumbency and specialized knowledge and skill so that it is impractical to assign the incumbent abroad. The regulations provide that, when positions so designated for Foreign Service incumbency become vacant, appointments to them will be made under the Foreign Service Act. In this manner, the Administrator will be able progressively to bring to bear important field experience in the development process to key policy positions in Washington, thereby strengthening policy development and management and providing more interesting and challenging careers. These regulations, which have been prepared after extensive consultations with the appropriate committees of the Congress, are designed to have no adverse effects upon the existing rights of employees of the Agency.
The personnel regulations I am presenting today are an important step in strengthening the administration of our foreign assistance programs. As you know, I am also proposing, under the Reorganization Act of 1977, an improved organizational structure for those programs. I urge the Congress to consider favorably both of these measures to enhance the efficiency and effectiveness of our economic assistance to developing countries.
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
May 1, 1979.
  