
    President Donald J. Trump today announced his intent to nominate the following individual to a key position in his Administration:
Mindy Brashears of Texas, to be the Under Secretary for Food Safety at the Department of Agriculture.
Dr. Brashears is a Professor of Food Safety and Food Microbiology and the Director of the International Center for Food Industry Excellence at Texas Tech University. At Texas Tech University, she focuses much of her research on improving food safety standards. Dr. Brashears's work evaluates interventions in pre- and post-harvest environments and on the emergence of antimicrobial drug resistance in animal feeding systems and has resulted in the commercialization of a pre-harvest feed additive that can reduce E. coli and Salmonella in cattle. Additionally, she leads international research teams to Mexico, Central America, and South America to set up sustainable agriculture systems in impoverished areas. Dr. Brashears is past-Chair of the National Alliance for Food Safety and Security and of the United States Department of Agriculture multi-state research group.
-----
President Donald J. Trump today announced his intent to appoint the following individuals to be designated Co-Chairs and Members of the President's Council on Sport, Fitness, and Nutrition for a term of two years:

Mariano Rivera of New York
Misty May-Treanor of California
Herschel Junior Walker of Georgia

President Donald J. Trump today announced his intent to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the President's Council on Sport, Fitness, and Nutrition for a term of two years:

Brenda Larsen Becker of Michigan
William Belichick of Massachusetts
Johnny David Damon of Florida
Trevor Joseph Drinkwater of California
Louis Ferrigno of California
Robert Goldman of Illinois
Nan A.S. Hayworth of New York
Matthew Hesse of Nebraska
Ashlee Lundvall of Wyoming
Jacob Olson of California
Mehmet Oz of New Jersey
Natalie Gulbis Rodarmel of California
Shauna L. Rohbock of Utah
Kyle Frederick Snyder of Maryland
Stephen Soloway of New Jersey
Julie Teer of Michigan
Chris Tisi of Florida
Robert Charles Wilkins of New Jersey
Samuel James Worthington, Jr. of Pennsylvania
Linda Yaccarino of New York

  