
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

Good government is a reflection of the men and women who make it that way, and we Americans owe a great debt of gratitude to our Nation's 20 million public employees. Through their dedicated efforts at the Federal, State, and local levels, these men and women help to ensure our freedom, safety, security, and progress. Theirs is a noble yet challenging mission, and it is fitting that we set aside a week in their honor.
All public employees are dedicated to upholding the principles enshrined in our Constitution. They help to establish justice and ensure domestic tranquility by defending law and order in our communities and by providing for the day-to-day operation of our courts and corrections facilities; they provide for the common defense by supporting our military bases and by maintaining our transportation networks; and they promote the general welfare by conducting biomedical research, by ensuring the safety of our food supply, and by administering programs to aid citizens in need and preserve our environment. Finally, public employees help to secure the blessings of liberty to ourselves and our posterity by educating our children, by preserving historic documents and landmarks, and by ensuring the integrity of public elections. The contributions of government workers in these and countless other fields of endeavor have helped make possible the freedom and prosperity that we Americans enjoy today.
Americans who have chosen to engage in public service are making a profound difference in the lives of their neighbors and in the future of this country. For all their work to better the life of each American, they deserve our recognition and support.
The Congress, by House Joint Resolution 430, has designated the week beginning May 4, 1992, as Public Service Recognition Week and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this week.
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the week of May 4 through May 10, 1992, as Public Service Recognition Week. I encourage all Americans to observe this week with appropriate programs and activities in honor of the dedicated men and women who serve our Nation as employees of Federal, State, and local government. I also invite young Americans to learn more about the important and rewarding work that is done by public employees and to consider devoting their talents and energy toward careers in government.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this eighth day of May, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-two, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and sixteenth.

GEORGE BUSH
  