
    Pool Reports by Scott Bixby, The Daily Beast 



Sent:
Reports:




May 19, 202107:40

In-Town Pool Report #1 — Gathering for Marine One departure 
Greetings from the White House on a truly stupendous Wednesday morning. There's not a cloud in the sky, and nesting starlings are making a racket. Your pooler has been tested at Jackson Place and is now killing time ahead of the call to gather at the stakeout spot for President Biden's helicopter departure by photographing cicada husks on nearby trees. (They're very gross and cool: https://twitter.com/scottbix/status/1394980077717315590)
POTUS will be traveling to New London, Connecticut this morning to participate in the U.S. Coast Guard Academy's 140th commencement exercises, which will be covered by the travel pool. Karine Jean-Pierre will gaggle with reporters on Air Force One shortly after takeoff, which will be viewable on the White House livestream.
POTUS will return to the White House later this afternoon.



May 19, 202108:36

In-Town Pool Report #2 — Marine One departs from the Ellipse
Marine One lifted off at 8:35 a.m., about twenty minutes behind schedule, bound for JBA. President Biden waved at the assembled press while walking from the Beast to the helicopter. Just south of Marine One, a group of five Canada geese grazed on grass (or possibly cicadas) mostly unperturbed by the two helicopters nearby.
Your in-town pool is passing the baton to the travel pool — see you upon POTUS's return.



May 19, 202116:02

In-Town Pool Report #3 — Gathering for Marine One 
Your in-town print pooler has gathered with the rest of the pool at the stakeout spot, where it is 84 degrees — twenty degrees warmer than it was this morning — and feels like it.
Headed to the Ellipse momentarily, hopefully under some shade.



May 19, 202116:23

In-Town Pool Report #4 — Marine One landing
Marine One touched down on (at?) the Ellipse at 4:19 p.m. President Biden strode out of Marine One three minutes after touchdown and walked straight to the Beast without waving.



May 19, 202116:28

In-Town Pool Report #5 — Lid
A lid was called at 4:27 p.m.
Enjoy this sunny day!




 
Pool Reports below by Maureen Groppe, USA Today 



Sent:
Reports:




May 19, 202108:49

Travel Pool report #1 - JBA arrival 
Marine One landed at JBA at about 8:43 am for today's trip to the Coast Guard Academy.
Biden was greeted by Colonel Kimberly Welter, Vice Wing Commander, 89th Airlift Wing.
He didn't talk to the pool before boarding AF1.
Karine Jean-Pierre will gaggle during the approximately hour-long flight to Rhode Island's Quonset Point Air National Guard. The gaggle will be live-streamed.
Traveling with the President to Connecticut:Jen O'Malley Dillon, Deputy Chief of StaffJake Sullivan, National Security AdvisorKarine Jean-Pierre, Principal Deputy Press SecretaryRyan Montoya, Director of Scheduling & AdvanceMeghan Hays, Director of Message PlanningCarlyn Reichel, Senior Director for SpeechwritingAshley Williams, Deputy Director of Oval Office OperationsStephen Goepfert, Personal AideTravis Dredd, Trip Director



May 19, 202109:55

Travel Pool Report #2 - landing and gaggle highlight. 
AF1 landed at about 9:50 am.
The short gaggle started as we were descending.
Karine said Biden told Netanyahu this morning that he expects a significant de-escalation today on a path to a cease fire.
She didn't directly respond when asked if Netanyahu agreed.



May 19, 202110:05

Travel Pool Report #3 - departure for academy & more call info 
Biden descended AF1 at Quonset Air National Guard Base at about 10:01 am.
He took off his mask as he met with these greeters:
* Governor Dan McKee* Colonel Adam Wiggins, 143rd Airlift Wing Commander* Major General Christopher Callahan, The Adjutant General, Rhode Island
Biden did not talk to the pool before jogging toward Marine One.
Pool is loading into Ospreys.
The White House informed your poolers that Biden's call with Netanyahu happened before he got on AF1.



May 19, 202110:38

Travel Pool Report #3 - arrival at Coast Guard Academy 
Pool landed at about 10:23 am before taking out our ear plugs and getting in the motorcade for a short ride to the site.
Marine One landed at about 10:31 am.
We did not see POTUS except as the Beast drove past the pool van on the way to the head of the motorcade.
Per the White House, Biden's greeters were:
* Secretary Alejandro Mayorkas, Department of Homeland Security* Admiral Karl Schultz, Commandant of the Coast Guard* Rear Admiral William Kelly, Superintendent of the Coast Guard Academy
We are rolling.



May 19, 202111:03

Travel Pool Report #4 -- color from Cadet Memorial Field and start of ceremony 
Those waving at the motorcade during the short drive to Cadet Memorial Field include a gaggle of children from what appeared to be a day care. Pool regrets that we drove by too quickly to read any of their handmade signs.
The sun is shining brightly on the field where white folding chairs are socially distanced in front of the stage.
Red, white and blue bunting is draped on the front of the stage and along the fence that separates the field from the Thames River.
A U.S. Coast Guard ship is floating in the Thames River, behind the stage.
The bleachers are not full, due to COVID-19 restrictions.
The ceremony began promptly at 11 a.m. with the arrival of about 240 graduates in their white uniforms. (They're hatless and caps can be seen beneath the folding chairs.)
POTUS is expected to speak at about 11:40 a.m.
The program is attached.
Speakers at the 140th Commencement Exercises at the U.S. Coast Guard Academy include the following:
* Lieutenant Commander Kimberly Cain, Chaplain, Coast Guard Academy* Rear Admiral William Kelly, Superintendent of the Coast Guard Academy* Cadet First Class Sean Edward Seyller* Admiral Karl Schultz, Commandant of the Coast Guard* Secretary Alejandro Mayorkas, Department of Homeland Security* The President* Dr. Kurt J. Colella, Dean of Academics, Coast Guard Academy



May 19, 202111:46

Travel Pool Report #5 -- Biden about to speak
Homeland Security Secretary Mayorkas is wrapping up. Biden's address is next.
More color:
At the beginning of the ceremony, Biden saluted as he began to walk through the cordon of cadets stretched across nearly half of the field to get to the stage. Soon after he took his place on the unshaded stage, cannons were fired 21 times.
The motto of the class of 2021 is "We are the future."
Cadet First Class Sean Edward Seyller, who gave the cadet commencement address, said his class may not have all the answers.
"But we have the passion, courage, perseverance to find them," Seyller said, before ending his address: "Go class of '21 and go Bears."
An orange and blue bear paw print is painted on the field's artificial turf right in front of the stage.
Full dress flags are strung down both sides of the light pole behind the stage, flapping in a light breeze.



May 19, 202112:19

Travel Pool Report #6 -- Biden's remarks conclude 
After threatening to speak for four hours in the hot sun, Biden's remarks were about 30 minutes long.
Some brief highlights. (Please check quotes against transcript).
Early in his remarks, Biden told the cadets to stand up, turn around and salute your parents. "Up, up up," Biden said. (They got up.)
Biden listed the cadets' accomplishments, including the following: You got a hair cut that showed every damn bump on your head.
"Is the sun getting to you?" Biden asked at one point when he expected applause for a reference to the Navy.
Biden continued the long-standing tradition of absolving any midshipmen on restriction for minor conduct offense.
"You have no idea how much I wish I had been able to do that at my graduation," said Biden, a graduate of the University of Delaware.
Of the class motto, "We are the future," Biden said: "I don't think you have any idea how profound that assertion is. The world is changing. We're at a significant inflection point."
Biden said the U.S. has to take an active role to set the norms of conduct, shaping them around Democratic values and not autocrats.
"Your mission will become even more global and even more important."
"The world is changing. We need you even more."
"We need you badly."
"It's time to get underway."



May 19, 202113:47

Travel Pool Report #7 - conclusion of ceremony 
After Biden had awarded diplomas and shaken hands during the lengthy presentation of commissions and degrees, the class gave Biden a gift: a mounted ceremonial sword (like those given out when someone becomes a commissioned officer in the Coast Guard.)
Graduates roared when Biden lifted it over his head.
"I hope I won't need this anytime soon," Biden said.
The graduates tossed their hats in the air when told they could divest themselves of all symbols of cadet life.
Biden processed through the cordon during the recessional, leaving the field at about 1:40 p.m.



May 19, 202113:49

Travel Pool Report #8 -- photo line 
The White House provides the following information:
Following the Commencement, the President will meet with Governor Ned Lamont.
The President will participate in a photo line with Coast Guard Academy leadership, professors, and graduates.
Attendees:

Former Senator Chris Dodd (CT)
Congressman Joe Courtney (CT-02)
Rear Admiral William Kelly, Superintendent, United States Coast Guard Academy
Mrs. Angie Kelly, Spouse of RADM William Kelly
William Kelly, Father of RADM William Kelly
Mary Kelly, Mother of RADM William Kelly
Christine Rose, Civilian of the Year, Junior Grade
Phil Muir, Civilian of the Year, Mid-Grade
SK1 Justin McClurg, Enlisted Petty Officer of the Year
Bonnie Fogell, Administrative Assistant to the Superintendent
LCDR Cory Fagan, Commencement Project Officer
LT Taylor Tennyson, Superintendent Military Aide
Dr. Janet McLeavey, Most Senior Faculty Member, Retiring, & Macebearer
CAPT Richard Sanders, Retiring Professor
CAPT Melinda McGurer, Retiring Professor
Dr. Sharon Zelmanowitz, Engineering Department Head
CDR Ally Field, CGA Program Manager (DCMS-5)
Mrs. Lynda Smith, Spouse of Merle James Smith, Jr., Class of 1966 and the first African American Coast Guard Academy graduate
Dr. Aram deKoven, Chief Diversity Officer, Coast Guard Academy
Kurt Colella, Dean of Academics, Coast Guard Academy
Captain Arthur Ray, Commandant of Cadets
ENS Mark Sporay, Graduate from Middletown, DE
ENS Rebecca Dolan, Graduate from Wilmington, DE
ENS John Barbera, Graduate, Presenting the USCGA Football




May 19, 202114:25

Travel Pool Report #9 - Leaving Coast Guard Academy 
Biden boarded Marine One at about 2:20 pm. Pool was not in shouting distance.
Pool is in Osprey and about to talk off for Rhode Island.



May 19, 202114:57

Travel Pool Report #10 - switch to AF1 in RI 
Pool landed at the Quonset Point Air National Guard Base at about 2:47 pm.
POTUS exited Marine One at about 2:54 pm.
He did not engage with the pool before boarding AF1.
We are departing shortly for JBA.



May 19, 202116:10

Travel Pool Report #11 - JBA arrival and departure 
AF1 touched down at JBA at about 3:56 pm.
POTUS was greeted by Colonel Kimberly Welter, Vice Wing Commander, 89th Airlift Wing.
Biden, again, did not talk to the pool before boarding Marine One, which took off at about 4:10 pm.
Thanks to co-pooler Geoff Earle for his help today.
Handing off to the in town pool.




  