
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate three individuals to serve in his Administration:
The President intends to nominate Robert O. Blake, Jr., of Maryland, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, and serve concurrently and without additional compensation as Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of the Maldives. Mr. Blake, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, currently serves as Deputy Chief of Mission in New Delhi, India. Prior to this, he served as Executive Assistant to the Under Secretary for Political Affairs at the Department of State. Earlier in his career, he served as an economic officer in Egypt, an economic officer in Nigeria and a political counselor in Tunisia. Mr. Blake received his bachelor's degree from Harvard University and his master's degree from The Johns Hopkins University.
The President intends to nominate Elizabeth Dougherty, of the District of Columbia, to be a Member of the National Mediation Board, for a three-year term expiring July 1, 2009. Ms. Dougherty most recently served as Special Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy at the White House. Prior to this, she served as Chief Counsel for the United States Senate Subcommittee on Employment, Safety and Training. Earlier in her career, she was an Associate at Hogan & Hartson practicing labor and employment law. Ms. Dougherty received her bachelor's degree from Duke University and her JD from the University of Virginia.
The President intends to nominate Patrick W. Dunne, of New York, to be Assistant Secretary of Veterans Affairs for Policy and Planning. Mr. Dunne most recently served as President of the United States Naval Postgraduate School. Prior to this, he was a Commander of United States Naval Forces in Marianas, Guam. He also served as Deputy Chief of Navy Legislative Affairs. Earlier in his career, Mr. Dunne served as Naval Aide to President Ronald Reagan. He served in the United States Navy for 34 years, retiring as a Rear Admiral in 2006. Mr. Dunne received his bachelor's degree from the United States Naval Academy and his master's degree from the United States Naval Postgraduate School.
  