
    HOUSTON, Texas - Indiana Governor Mike Pence today penned the following op-ed in theIndy Star in support of presidential candidate Ted Cruz as the leader who will restore constitutional liberties and bring back jobs and opportunity.
Why I will vote for Ted Cruz
Indy Star
Gov. Mike Pence
On Tuesday, the eyes of the nation will focus on Indiana as Hoosiers head to the polls to play a critical role in the selection of candidates vying to serve as the next president of the United States. It has been a true joy to watch the people of our state play host to candidates from both parties and for Hoosiers of all backgrounds and beliefs to share their thoughts about the future of this great nation. To lead is to choose and this is our state's time for choosing.
I had the pleasure to meet with all three candidates running for the Republican nomination and to hear their plans for America. We discussed the great progress taking place in Indiana's economy and how our state needs a partner in the White House.
…
In making my decision to support Ted, I am guided by the principles best espoused by former President Ronald Reagan. I am a Reagan Republican; drawn to his vision of less taxes, less government, traditional values and a strong military. Ted articulates that same agenda with an unwavering devotion to our Constitution, the sanctity of life, and the freedoms enshrined in the Bill of Rights.
…
Ted's plan to lower and simplify taxes also favors manufacturers: they pay no tax on exports, encouraging more companies to come to Indiana and the rest of America's heartland, rather than transport jobs overseas.
Indiana needs a partner as president who will reform the burgeoning regulatory state that has cost good-paying jobs while increasing the cost of living for hardworking Americans. President Obama's Clean Power Plan and Hillary Clinton's promised war on coal, with the support of Democrat gubernatorial candidate John Gregg, is projected to eliminate thousands of mining jobs in southwest Indiana, 20,000 manufacturing jobs across the entire state, and increase Hoosier's electric bills by 16%.
Ted has a plan to eliminate excessive government programs and has taken on big-government overreach. He led the fight to repeal Obamacare, one of the greatest burdens on families and small businesses and I have no doubt he will follow through in checking government power to restore prosperity to the people.
This is an exciting time for Hoosiers. The eyes of the nation are looking to Indiana to make a choice. I encourage every Hoosier to evaluate each of the candidates and exercise your right to vote in the May 3 Primary. My vote goes to Ted Cruz because he is a principled conservative who will work to protect our constitutional liberties, bring back better-paying jobs, and serve all Americans with the character and judgment needed to revive our national strength.
  