
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate six individuals to serve in his Administration:
The President intends to nominate William C. Anderson, of Connecticut, to be Assistant Secretary of the Air Force (Installations and Environment). Mr. Anderson currently serves as General Manager and Senior Counsel for Environmental, Health and Safety at the General Electric Company. He previously served as General Counsel and Director of Quality and Environmental Affairs at GE Power Controls in Gent, Belgium. Earlier in his career, Mr. Anderson served as Integration Manager for GE Power Controls in Frankfurt, Germany and as Tax Counsel for GE Electrical Distribution and Control in Plainville, Connecticut. He earned his bachelor's degree from Washington College and his J.D. from Syracuse University.
The President intends to nominate Israel Hernandez, of Texas, to be Assistant Secretary of Commerce and Director General of the United States and Foreign Commercial Service. Mr. Hernandez most recently served as Deputy Assistant to the President in the Office of the Senior Advisor. He previously served as Director for Voter Outreach in the Office of Strategy on the Bush-Cheney 2000 Campaign. Prior to this position, Mr. Hernandez served as Personal Travel Aide for then Governor George W. Bush. He earned his bachelor's degree from The University of Texas and his master's degree from Texas A&M University.
The President intends to nominate Philip D. Morrison, of the District of Columbia, to be Assistant Secretary of the Treasury (Tax Policy). Mr. Morrison currently serves as a Principal with the Washington National Tax Office of Deloitte Tax LLP. He previously served as a Partner with Baker & McKenzie. Earlier in his career, Mr. Morrison served as the U.S. Treasury's International Tax Counsel, the U.S. government's chief legal adviser on international tax matters and chief negotiator of tax treaties and director of the Office of International Tax Counsel. He earned his bachelor's degree from Princeton University and his J.D. from Harvard Law School.
The President intends to nominate Ronald E. Neumann, of Virginia, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan. A career member of the Senior Foreign Service, Ambassador Neumann currently serves as Counselor for Political-Military Affairs in Baghdad, Iraq. He previously served as Chief of Mission in Manama, Bahrain. Prior to this position, Ambassador Neumann served as Deputy Assistant Secretary in the Bureau of Near East Asian Affairs. Earlier in his career, he served as Ambassador to Algeria. Ambassador Neumann earned his bachelor's degree and master's degree from the University of California at Riverside.
The President intends to nominate Richard A. Raymond, of Nebraska, to be Under Secretary of Agriculture for Food Safety. Dr. Raymond currently serves as Director of the Regulation and Licensure Agency within the Nebraska Health and Human Services System and also serves as Chief Medical Officer of the Nebraska Health and Human Services System. He previously served as the Director of the Clarkson Family Practice Residency Program. Earlier in his career, Dr. Raymond served as Medical Director for the Nebraska Health System's Hospice Program. He earned his bachelor's degree from Hastings College and his MD from the University of Nebraska.
The President intends to nominate Gregory L. Schulte, of Virginia, to be Representative of the United States of America to the Vienna Office of the United Nations, and Representative of the United States of America to the IAEA, with the rank of Ambassador. Mr. Schulte currently serves as Chief of Staff of the Roles, Missions, and Organizations Team for the Quadrennial Defense Review at the Department of Defense. He previously served as Executive Secretary of the National Security Council, as well as Senior Director for Southeast European Affairs and Special Assistant to the President for Implementation of the Dayton Peace Accords at the National Security Council. Earlier in his career, Mr. Schulte served as Director of the Secretary General's Bosnia Task Force at NATO Headquarters in Belgium. He earned his bachelor's degree from the University of California at Berkeley and his master's degree from Princeton University.
  