
    Ladies and gentlemen:
We are here today for the swearing in, as assistant to the President, of Kenneth Rush, and it carries me back almost 40 years, when I first met him. I thought he was then a rather senior person, although he was 24 and I was 21. He was an assistant professor at Duke University Law School in the field of corporations.
As assistant to the President, as we have already indicated, he will have the primary responsibility for advice and counsel in the economic area, both domestic and international. I think he certainly is a man who meets the qualifications that are needed for this very, very great responsibility.
His international credentials are well known--as Ambassador to Germany, as Deputy Secretary of State, and also on the defense side as Deputy Secretary of Defense.
What is probably not as well known is that he is a distinguished lawyer and was one of the top business leaders of the United States, chief executive officer of a great American corporation.
I think he is bringing to this position what is needed at this time, not only the coordination but also the ideas that we need to keep our economy growing and to fight the major battle that we have to fight on the economic front to handle inflation.
In addition, we are naming him as a member of the Cabinet, Counsellor to the President, and as a member of the National Security Council, a position he should be in because of his wide credentials in the international field and, particularly, the national defense field.
With all of those responsibilities, I don't know if he is going to be able to spend much time at home, but we welcome him as a member of the Cabinet today, as a member of the National Security Council, and as an assistant to the President.
Mr. Justice Powell of the Supreme Court will administer the oath. Here is the Bible.
[At this point, Associate Justice Lewis F. Powell, Jr., administered the oath of office. The President then resumed speaking.]
Before our new Counsellor responds briefly, I should point out that while he has great additional responsibilities in our battle against inflation, holding the line, he gets no additional money. Now, if you would like to say something, you may.
  