
    William Ira Althen, of Virginia, to be a Member of the Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission for a term of six years expiring August 30, 2018, vice Michael F. Duffy, term expired.
Katherine Archuleta, of Colorado, to be Director of the Office of Personnel Management for a term of four years, vice John Berry, term expired.
Ann Marie Buerkle, of New York, to be a Commissioner of the Consumer Product Safety Commission for a term a of seven years from October 27, 2011, vice Anne M. Northup, term expired.
James F. Entwistle, of Virginia, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Federal Republic of Nigeria.
Chai Rachel Feldblum, of the District of Columbia, to be a Member of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission for a term expiring July 1, 2018. (Reappointment)
Douglas Edward Lute, of Indiana, to be United States Permanent Representative on the Council of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, with the rank and status of Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary.
Victoria Nuland, of Virginia, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Career Minister, to be an Assistant Secretary of State (European and Eurasian Affairs), vice Philip H. Gordon, resigned.
Michael Sean Piwowar, of Virginia, to be a Member of the Securities and Exchange Commission for a term expiring June 5, 2018, vice Troy A. Paredes, term expiring.
Mark E. Schaefer, of California, to be Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Oceans and Atmosphere, vice Larry Robinson.
Daniel A. Sepulveda, of Florida, for the rank of Ambassador during his tenure of service as Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for International Communications and Information Policy in the Bureau of Economic, Energy, and Business Affairs and U.S. Coordinator for International Communications and Information Policy.
Lafe E. Solomon, of Maryland, to be General Counsel of the National Labor Relations Board for a term of four years, vice Ronald E. Meisburg, resigned.
Kara Marlene Stein, of Maryland, to be a Member of the Securities and Exchange Commission for a term expiring June 5, 2017, vice Elisse Walter, term expired.
Daniel M. Tangherlini, of the District of Columbia, to be Administrator of General Services, vice Martha N. Johnson, resigned.
John H. Thompson, of the District of Columbia, to be Director of the Census for the remainder of the term expiring December 31, 2016, vice Robert M. Groves, resigned.
  