
    "Before he tells Congress what it should do, President Obama should follow through on his own 'to-do' list that he outlined nearly four years ago in Denver. After more than three years of liberal policies that have driven up debt and wasteful spending, no amount of 'to-do' lists can hide the fact that the President's policies have failed to make life better for the millions of Americans who are struggling in the Obama economy." –Andrea Saul, Romney Campaign Spokesperson
Today In New York, President Obama Outlined His "To-Do" List For Congress:
In Albany, President Obama Outlined His "To-Do" List, Which Includes Proposals He Has "Outlined Previously." "Pressuring Congress, President Barack Obama is laying out an election year 'to do' list Tuesday that urges lawmakers to take another look at economic proposals to promote job creation and help families refinance their mortgages. ... Obama's wish list includes a number of proposals that he has outlined previously but have failed to gain traction in Congress." (Ken Thomas, "Obama's 'To Do' List For Congress: Jobs, Mortgages," The Associated Press, 5/8/12)
But What About Candidate Obama's "To-Do" List From The 2008 Democratic Convention? President Obama Still Hasn't Lived Up To Those Promises:
Candidate Obama, At The 2008 Democratic Convention: "I'll Invest $150 Billion ... In Affordable, Renewable Sources Of Energy ... An Investment That Will Lead To New Industries And 5 Million New Jobs..." OBAMA: "I'll invest $150 billion over the next decade in affordable, renewable sources of energy -- wind power, and solar power, and the next generation of biofuels -- an investment that will lead to new industries and 5 million new jobs that pay well and can't be outsourced." (Senator Barack Obama, Remarks, Denver, CO, 8/28/08)


    During President Obama's Time In Office, The Nation Has Lost 572,000 Jobs And The Unemployment Rate Has Increased To 8.1%. (Bureau Of Labor Statistics, www.bls.gov, Accessed 5/4/12)
  



    "The Millions Of 'Green Jobs' Obama Promised Have Been Slow To Sprout..." "But the millions of 'green jobs' Obama promised have been slow to sprout, disappointing many who had hoped that the $90 billion earmarked for clean-energy efforts in the recession-fighting federal stimulus package would ease unemployment - still above 8 percent in March." (Andy Sullivan, "Analysis: Obama's 'Green Jobs' Have Been Slow To Sprout," Reuters, 4/13/12)
  

Candidate Obama, At The 2008 Democratic Convention: "We Measure Progress In The 23 Million New Jobs That Were Created When Bill Clinton Was President When The Average American Family Saw Its Income Go Up..." OBAMA: "We measure progress in the 23 million new jobs that were created when Bill Clinton was president when the average American family saw its income go up $7,500 instead of go down $2,000..." (Senator Barack Obama, Remarks, Denver, CO, 8/28/08)


    Nearly Twenty-Three Million Americans Are Unemployed, Underemployed, Or Have Stopped Looking For Work. (Bureau Of Labor Statistics, www.bls.gov, Accessed 5/6/12)
  

    Under President Obama, Median Household Income Has Declined By $4,300. "Yet real median household income in March was down $4,300 since Obama took office in January 2009 and down $2,900 since the June 2009 start of the economic recovery, according to an analysis of census data by Sentier Research, an economic- consulting firm in Annapolis, Maryland." (Mike Dorning, "Obama Fails To Stem Middle-Class Slide He Blamed On Bush," Bloomberg, 4/30/12)
  

Candidate Obama, At The 2008 Democratic Convention: "We Measure The Strength Of Our Economy ... [By] An Economy That Honors The Dignity Of Work." OBAMA: "We measure the strength of our economy ... by whether someone with a good idea can take a risk and start a new business, or whether the waitress who lives on tips can take a day off and look after a sick kid without losing her job, an economy that honors the dignity of work." (Senator Barack Obama, Remarks, Denver, CO, 8/28/08)


    The Share Of Working-Age Americans In The Labor Force Is At Its "Lowest Level Since 1981." "The share of working-age Americans who are in the labor force, meaning they are either working or actively looking for a job, is now at its lowest level since 1981 — when far fewer women were doing paid work." (Catherine Rampell, "U.S. Added Only 115,000 Jobs In April; Rate Is 8.1%," The New York Times, 5/4/12)
  



    "More Than 5 Million Americans Have Been Unemployed For Six Months Or Longer..." "More than 5 million Americans have been unemployed for six months or longer, an astonishingly high number almost three years into a recovery." (Christopher S. Rugaber, "US Hiring Slows Sharply With Just 115K Jobs Added," The Associated Press, 5/4/12)
  

Candidate Obama, At The 2008 Democratic Convention: "I Will Go Through The Federal Budget, Line By Line ... Because We Cannot Meet Twenty-First Century Challenges With A Twentieth Century Bureaucracy." OBAMA: "But I will also go through the federal budget, line by line, eliminating programs that no longer work and making the ones we do need work better and cost less - because we cannot meet twenty-first century challenges with a twentieth century bureaucracy." (Senator Barack Obama, Remarks, Denver, CO, 8/28/08)


    "Taxpayer Dollars Were Squandered" After GSA Officials Spent Nearly $1 Million For A Lavish Conference For Only 300 Attendees. "GSA Administrator Martha Johnson admitted in a letter of resignation that her agency had made a 'significant misstep' and that 'taxpayer dollars were squandered.' A GSA Inspector General's report on the 2010 GSA 'Western Regions' training conference in Las Vegas shows the government spent more than $822,000 for the 300 attendees..." (Lesa Jansen, "GSA Head Resigns Over 'Wasteful' Las Vegas Seminar," CNN, 4/2/12)
  



    "Obama's Budget Projects That The Deficit For The Current Year Will Total $1.33 Trillion, The Fourth Straight Year Of Deficits Over $1 Trillion." ("Highlights Of Obama's $3.8 Trillion Budget," The Associated Press, 2/13/12)
  



    Under President Obama, The Nation's Total Public Debt Has Reached A Record $15.6 Trillion. (U.S. Department Of Treasury, www.treasurydirect.gov, Accessed 5/8/12)
  

  