
    STATEMENT OF ADMINISTRATION POLICY
(House Floor)(Sponsor: Whitten (D), Mississippi)
This Statement of Administration Policy expresses the Administration's views on H.R. 2251, as introduced. The Administration commends the House for acting expeditiously on this bill. In keeping with the sense of urgency we share concerning the plight of the refugees in and around Iraq, the Administration supports House passage of the bill in its current form. The Administration will work with the Congress in an effort to make certain changes, particularly those discussed below, as the bill moves through the legislative process.
With regard to the funding for the Department of Defense, the Administration is pleased that the bill funds operations in support of Operation Provide Comfort from the Persian Gulf Regional Defense Fund (PGRDF), as requested. The current language appropriating $320.5 million will enable the armed services to continue their missions through the end of May. The Administration continues to prefer "such sums" language, as requested, rather than a specified amount as there is a high degree of uncertainty about how long assistance will be required.
With regard to the funding for the Department of State and the Agency for International Development, the Administration supports providing funds at the requested levels for refugee and disaster assistance in the Persian Gulf and for the UN Iraq- Kuwait border force, financed through the use of interest on funds in the Defense Cooperation Account (DCA). The Administration opposes the provision of $85 million above the request. These additional funds are not now needed. Should the Congress insist on appropriating additional funds, however, the Administration could support such funding if it is financed by the use of additional amounts of available interest on DCA funds. If a satisfactory resolution of this issue is not achieved in the House, the Administration will seek necessary changes in the Senate.

EXECUTIVE OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENTOFFICE OF MANAGEMENT AND BUDGETWASHINGTON, D.C. 20503
May 9, 1991
Honorable Robert C. ByrdChairman, Committee on AppropriationsUnited States SenateWashington, D.C. 20510
Dear Mr. Chairman:
The purpose of this letter is to express the views of the Administration on H.R. 2251 as introduced in the House of Representatives.
The Administration has commended the House for acting expeditiously on this bill and for limiting the scope of the bill. At the same time, however, the Administration has objected to several provisions of the House bill. In keeping with the sense of urgency we share concerning the plight of the refugees in and around Iraq, the Administration has supported House passage while stating that we will work with the Congress in an effort to make the changes discussed below as the bill moves through the legislative process.
With regard to the funding for the Department of Defense, the Administration is pleased that the bill funds operations in support of Operation Provide Comfort from the Persian Gulf Regional Defense Fund (PGRDF), as requested. The current language appropriating $320.5 million will enable the armed services to continue their missions through the end of May. The Administration continues to prefer "such sums" language, as requested, rather than a specified amount, as there is a high degree of uncertainty about how long this effort will be required.
The Administration recommends that the provision permitting up to $16 million to be contributed to military relief societies be dropped from the bill. Such contributions would set a precedent for contributions to a wide variety of voluntary, nonprofit relief groups. Singling out for Federal aid three nonprofit organizations from all such groups is difficult to justify and would appear to other groups to be highly inequitable.
IDENTICAL LETTER SENT TO HONORABLE MARK O. HATFIELD
With regard to the funding for the Department of State and the Agency for International Development, the Administration supports providing funds at the requested levels for refugee and disaster assistance in the Persian Gulf and for the UN Iraq- Kuwait border force, financed through the use of interest on funds in the Defense Cooperation Account (DCA). The Administration opposes the provision of $85 million above the request. These additional funds are not now needed or requested. Should the Congress insist on appropriating additional funds, however, the Administration could support such funding if it were financed by the use of additional amounts of interest on DCA funds.
In my letter of May 7, I expressed the expectation that the House might pass a "clean" supplemental; and the hope that the Senate might then do the same. It now seems even more likely that the House will confine its action to refugee assistance and peacekeeping. I, therefore, respectfully repeat the request that the Senate do the same.
I, of course, remain aware of other interests and potential claims for resources. Indeed, OMB is required to report on these by the bill introduced in the House. We look forward to working with you on these other matters cooperatively. For the moment, however, I would urge prompt action on the narrow issue of Iraqi refugee assistance and peacekeeping. If the bill is broadened to treat other interests at this stage, this would likely prove contentious, leading to regrettable stalemate or delay.
I know you are sympathetic to the need for prompt action and look forward to working with you to that end.
With best regards,
Richard DarmanDirector
cc: Honorable Robert J. DoleHonorable George J. Mitchell
  