
    "Four years ago in Ohio, Candidate Obama described our national debt as 'obscene.' That was before President Obama piled on trillions and trillions more. The Obama-Biden Administration's liberal policies of wasteful spending and bigger government have not worked, and our children are stuck with the bill for their broken promises. America needs a president willing to make tough spending choices – not someone content to pass our financial burdens on to the next generation." –Andrea Saul, Romney Campaign Spokesperson
Four Years Ago In Ohio, Candidate Obama Criticized $4 Trillion In New Debt As "Obscene":
In February 2008, Candidate Obama Characterized America's National Debt As "Obscene." OBAMA: "We know that all of this must be done in a responsible way, without adding to the already obscene debt that has grown by four trillion dollars under George Bush. We cannot build our future on a credit card issued by the bank of China." (President Barack Obama, Remarks, Lorain, OH, 2/24/08)
Since Taking Office, The Obama-Biden Team Has Racked Up More Than $5 Trillion In New Debt – An Increase Of Over $15,000 For Each Ohioan:
Under President Obama, The National Debt Has Surpassed $15.7 Trillion – An Increase Of More Than $5 Trillion. (Department Of The Treasury Website, www.treasurydirect.gov, Accessed 5/16/12)


    Every Ohioan Owes $50,194.45 For Their Portion Of The National Debt. (Department Of The Treasury, www.treasurydirect.gov, Accessed 5/13/12; Census Bureau, www.census.gov, Accessed 5/16/12)
  



    Every Ohioan's Share Of The National Debt Has Increased By $15,442.72 Since President Obama Took Office. (Department Of The Treasury, www.treasurydirect.gov, Accessed 5/16/12; Census Bureau, www.census.gov, Accessed 5/16/12)
  

The Washington Post: "[President Obama's] Record On The Growth Of National Debt Is The Worst Of Recent Presidents." "But the fact remains that under basic economic measures, not phony ones, [President Obama's] record on the growth of the national debt is the worst of recent presidents." (Glenn Kessler, "A Bogus Chart On Obama And The Debt Gets A New Lease On Life," The Washington Post, 9/29/11)
PolitiFact.com: "Obama Is The Undisputed Debt King Of The Last Five Presidents." "So by this measurement -- potentially a more important one -- Obama is the undisputed debt king of the last five presidents, rather than the guy who added a piddling amount to the debt, as Pelosi's chart suggested." (Louis Jacobson, "Nancy Pelosi Posts Questionable Chart On Debt Accumulation By Barack Obama, Predecessors," PolitiFact.com, 5/19/11)
And While The President's Economic Policies Have Led To More Spending And More Debt, His Environmental Policies Are Hurting Ohio's Coal Industry:
Senator Biden, At An Ohio Campaign Event In 2008: "We're Not Supporting Clean Coal. ... No Coal Plants Here In America." QUESTIONER: "Wind and solar are flourishing here in Ohio, so why are you supporting clean coal? BIDEN: "We're not supporting clean coal. Guess what, China is building two every week. Two dirty coal plants. And it's polluting the United States, it's causing people to die." Question: "So will you support wind and solar technologies?" BIDEN: "Absolutely. Before anyone did. The first guy to introduce a global warming bill was me, 22 years ago. ... China's going to burn 300 years of bad coal unless we figure out how to clean their coal up because it's going to ruin your lungs and there's nothing we can do about it. No coal plants here in America." (Senator Joe Biden, Remarks, Maumee, OH, 9/17/08)
EPA Regulations Will Force More Than 32 Of The Nation's Coal Fired Plants To Shut Down. "More than 32 mostly coal-fired power plants in a dozen states will be forced to shut down and an additional 36 might have to close because of new federal air pollution regulations, according to an Associated Press survey. Together, those plants -- some of the oldest and dirtiest in the country -- produce enough electricity for more than 22 million households, the AP survey found. But their demise probably won't cause homes to go dark." (Dina Cappiello, "AP Impact: EPA Rules Threaten Older Power Plants," The Associated Press, 12/19/11)
FirstEnergy Has Announced That It Will Close Three Ohio Power Plants Due To EPA Regulations, Threatening Over 500 Jobs. "The Akron-based utility which owns Toledo Edison said it was shutting the facility because of air emission standards being imposed by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. In all, FirstEnergy said it would also shut plants in Eastlake, Ashabula, and Cleveland in Ohio, as well as in Adrian, Pa., and Williamsport, Md. The plants collectively produce 2,689 megawatts of electricity and employ 529 workers." ("FirstEnergy To Shutter Bay Shore Coal-Fired Plant," The Toledo Blade, 1/26/12)
President Obama's EPA Has Also Threatened A Coal Plant In Clermont County And Generating Units Of Plants In Conesville And Muskingham River. "Large Ohio coal plants will go dark within a few years. Duke Energy announced that the Walter C. Beckjord Generating Station in Clermont County east of Cincinnati will cease operating coal-fired units in 2015. ... Other Ohio utilities have announced coal-burning power plants headed for closure, including American Electric Power in Columbus. AEP said it would close two West Virginia plants and one Ohio plant, Picway. Two other Ohio plants, Conesville and Muskingum River, would close generating units." (Steve Bennish, "EPA Rules To Force Old Coal Plants To Adapt, Close," Dayton Daily News, 1/6/12)
The [Cleveland] Plain Dealer: "These Plant Closures Will Be A Punch In The Gut For Communities Already Battling Sour Unemployment Numbers." "These plant closures will be a punch in the gut for communities already battling sour unemployment numbers. Three of the plants are in Cleveland, Eastlake and Ashtabula, which stand to lose millions in property taxes as well as many jobs." (Editorial, "Coal Plants' Loss Will Hurt Ohio," The Plain Dealer, 1/29/12)
  