
    
  STATEMENT OF ADMINISTRATION POLICY

(House Rules)
(Rep. Shimkus, R-IL, and 16 cosponsors)
The Administration strongly supports the bipartisan, bicameral efforts to reform the Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA) embodied in the Senate Amendment to H.R. 2576. The bill is a clear improvement over the current TSCA and represents a historic advancement for both chemical safety and environmental law.
Consistent with the Administration's 2009 Principles for TSCA Reform, the Senate Amendment to H.R. 2576 would address flaws in current law that have limited the Environmental Protection Agency's (EPA) ability to protect public health and the environment from chemical risks. These important changes include: (1) requiring EPA to evaluate new and existing chemicals against a new risk-based safety standard that includes explicit considerations for vulnerable populations; (2) empowering EPA to require the development of chemical information necessary to support these evaluations; (3) establishing clear and enforceable deadlines that ensure both timely review of prioritized chemicals and timely action on identified risks; (4) increasing the public transparency of chemical information by limiting unwarranted claims of confidentiality and allowing for the appropriate sharing of confidential information with States and health and environmental professionals; and (5) providing a source of funding for EPA to carry out these significant new responsibilities. While not perfect, the bill meets the high goals set by the Administration for meaningful reform and we commend the House and Senate for taking this historic step.
If the Federal government is to restore public confidence in the safety of chemicals, which are used in commerce and are an integral part of the Nation's economy, it is essential that the Congress provide EPA with the necessary tools and authorities to effectively assess chemicals and regulate risks. This legislation provides a solid foundation for advancing these goals and improving public health and environmental protection. The Administration encourages quick action on this landmark reform.
  