
    Governor Bullock: About a hundred years ago, this was "the richest hill on earth."
The men who owned it were called kings.
With their money, they bought politicians, attacked unions, exploited workers, and left us all with a toxic reminder of what happens when our democracy is put up for sale.
Today we see evidence of a corrupt system all across America – a government that serves campaign money, not the people.
After the Citizens United decision, a lot of folks said 'game over'.
But as Attorney General, I refused to give up without a fight.
Rachel Maddow, MSNBC: "Every single state in the union abandoned its own corporate spending regulations after Citizens United. Except for one. Except for Montana. Attorney General, Steve Bullock, has personally fought to keep Montana's elections laws the way they are."
Governor Bullock: And when we lost, I found another way.
Unidentified Voice: "The Governor of the State of Montana, the Honorable Steve Bullock"
As a Democratic Governor in a state Trump won by 20 points, I don't have the luxury of only talking to people who agree with me.
Willie Geist, MSNBC: "You're a Democratic Governor in that state, who's pro-choice, you're for marriage equality, you've expanded Medicaid, you've expanded spending on education, you've protected the environment from corporate interests."
Governor Bullock: I go all across our state's 147-thousand-square miles; and look for common ground to get things done.
That's how I was able to bring Democrats and Republicans together to fight dark money, and pass one of the strongest campaign finance laws in the country.
Unidentified Voice: "The bill is a way to prevent dark money groups from controlling an election"
Governor Bullock: And if we can kick the Koch Brothers out of Montana, we sure as hell can kick them out of every place in the country.
Look, to be honest, I never thought I'd be running for president.
Raised by a single mom, we struggled just to get by.
I only knew there was a governor's house in town because I delivered newspapers to it.
Now, my wife Lisa and I are raising our kids in that same house.
I believe in an America where every child has a fair shot to do better than their parents.
But we all know that that kind of opportunity no longer exists for most people and for far too many, it never has.
That's why we need to defeat Donald Trump in 2020, and defeat the corrupt system that lets campaign money drown out the people's voice...so we can finally make good on the promise of a fair shot for everyone.
This is the fight of our time.
It's been the fight of my career.
I'm Steve Bullock, and I'm running for President.
With your help, we will take our democracy back.
  