
    The President today announced the appointment of the new members of the President's Commission on White House Fellowships. The Commission is bipartisan. Its purpose is to recommend to the President the White House fellows who serve for a 1-year period on the White House staff, in the Executive Office of the President, Office of the Vice President, or the offices of members of the Cabinet.
The new Chairman of the Commission is Vice Adm. James B. Stockdale (USN-Ret.). A native of Abington, Ill., Admiral Stockdale completed a distinguished Naval career in 1979. He is the recipient of more than 25 combat decorations, including the Congressional Medal of Honor, which was awarded to him for valor during the 8 years he spent as the senior American Naval prisoner of war in North Vietnam. Admiral Stockdale served as President of the Naval War College from 1977 to 1979 and as the president of the Citadel from 1979 to 1980. He is the recipient of seven honorary degrees and is currently a senior research fellow at the Hoover Institution on War, Revolution and Peace at Stanford University.
The other members of the Commission are:
Dennis L. Bark, deputy director and senior fellow, the Hoover Institution, Stanford, Calif. Dr. James E. Bostic, Jr., corporate executive, Riegel Textile Corp., Greenville, S.C.
Bruce L. Bower, attorney at law, Winston & Strawn, Chicago, Ill.
Marva Nettles Collins, founder and teacher, Westside Preparatory, Chicago, Ill.
Midge Decter, executive director, Committee for the Free World, New York, N.Y.
Ads E. Deer, legislative liaison, Native Americans Study Commission, Washington, D.C.
Donald J. Devine, Director, Office of Personnel Management, Washington, D.C.
Edwin J. Fuelher, president, Heritage Foundation, Washington, D.C.
Lt. Gen. Andrew Jackson Goodpaster, Superintendent, U.S. Military Academy, West Point, N.Y.
Edith Green, retired Congresswoman, Wilsonville, Oreg.
Michel T. Halbouty, independent oil producer, Houston, Tex.
Bruce H. Hasenkamp, director of government and industrial relations, The Shaklee Corp., San Francisco, Calif.
Susan C Herter, founder and former president of Volunteer Opportunities Inc., New York, Santa Fe, N. Mex.
Richard Hinojosa, attorney at law, Evers & Toothaker, McAllen, Tex.
Francis S. M. Hodsoll, Deputy Assistant to the President, Washington, D.C.
Author E. Hughes, president, University of San Diego, San Diego, Calif.
Nancy Landon Kassebaum, United States Senator, Washington, D.C.
Irving Kristol, coeditor, The Public Interest, New York, N.Y.
Sammy Lee, medical doctor and former Olympic diver, Santa Ana, Calif.
James T. Lynn, attorney at law, Jones, Day, Reavis & Pogue, Washington, D.C., and former Director of the Office of Management and Budget
Dana G. Mead, vice president for human resources, International Paper Co., New York, N.Y.
Rita Moreno, actress, Pacific Palisades, Calif.
Martha Peterson, president, Beloit College, Beloit, Wis.
Nancy Clark Reynolds, vice president, Bendix Corp., Washington, D.C.
Jean Smith (Mrs. William French), officer and member of numerous volunteer organizations, San Marino, Calif.
Robert S. Strauss, attorney at law, Akin, Gump, Strauss, Hauer & Field, Washington, D.C., and Dallas, Tex., and former chairman of the Democratic National Committee
Deanell Reece Tacha, associate vice chancellor, University of Kansas, Lawrence, Kans.
Shannon J. Wall, president, National Maritime Union, New York, N.Y.
Margaret Bush Wilson, attorney at law, Wilson, Smith & McCullin, St. Louis, Mo., and former chairman of the board of NAACP National Housing Corp.
In addition, James C. Roberts, 34, of Great Falls, Va., was named Director of the Commission. Roberts previously was president of James C. Roberts and Associates, a Washington-based public relations firm.
Named Deputy Director of the Commission was Lt. Comdr. Marsha A. Johnson-Evans, 33, of Springfield, Ill. Lieutenant Commander Johnson-Evans is a former White House fellow and is .on detail from the Navy.
  