
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
May 8
In the morning, the President traveled from Austin, TX, to Oklahoma City, OK, where he toured the tornado damaged areas by helicopter.
In the afternoon, the President took a walking tour of the tornado damage in Del Aire, a neighborhood in Del City, OK. Later, he returned to Washington, DC.
May 10
In the afternoon, the President met with President Fernando Cardoso of Brazil in the Oval Office to discuss global, regional, and other issues.
The President announced his intention to nominate Stuart E. Weisberg to be a member of the Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission.
May 11
In the morning, the President met privately with 15 corporate leaders in the Cabinet Room to discuss the new markets initiative.
Later, the President traveled to Atlanta, GA, where he toured the Sweet Auburn Market.
In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC.
The President announced his intention to appoint Don Christiansen and Robert Valentine to serve as members of the Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission.
May 12
In the evening, the President met with tribal leaders in the Chief of Staff's office.
The President announced his intention to nominate Jeffrey Rush, Jr., to be Inspector General at the Department of the Treasury.
The President announced his intention to nominate Prudence Bushnell to be Ambassador to Guatemala.
The President announced his intention to nominate Jack E. Hightower to be a member of the National Commission on Libraries and Information Science.
The President announced his intention to appoint Ray Marshall as a member of the National Skill Standards Board.
The President declared a major disaster in Tennessee and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms, tornadoes, and flooding on May 5 and continuing.
May 13
In the evening, the President attended a Democratic National Committee (DNC) Jefferson Trust dessert reception at a private residence.
The White House announced that the President will travel to Eulee, FL, on May 25-30.
The President announced his intention to designate Edward B. Montgomery to serve as Acting Deputy Secretary of the Department of Labor.
The President announced his intention to nominate Arthur L. Money to be Assistant Secretary of Defense for Command, Control, Communications and Intelligence.
The President announced his intention to appoint Jane Slate Siena to the J. William Fulbright Foreign Scholarship Board.
The President announced his intention to appoint Parker Westbrook and Arva Parks McCabe as members of the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation.
May 14
In the morning, the President had a telephone conversation with President Jiang Zemin of China concerning the Chinese Embassy bombing in Belgrade.
Later, the President traveled to Seattle, WA, where he attended a DNC luncheon at the Rainier Club.
In the late afternoon, the President traveled to Palo Alto, CA, where he attended a DNC dinner at a private residence.
The President announced his intention to appoint Kevin Gover as a member of the Board of Trustees of the American Folklife Center.
The President announced his intention to appoint Karen Lau Sullivan as U.S. Representative to the Pacific Community.
  