
    To the Congress:
Early in the present session of the Congress the Philippine Independence Act was passed. This Act provided that after the inauguration of the new interim or Commonwealth form of government of the Philippine Islands trade relations between the United States and the Philippine Islands shall be as now provided by law. Certain exceptions, however, were made. One of these exceptions required levying on all coconut oil coming into the United States from the Philippine Islands in any calendar year in excess of 448,000,000 pounds, the same rates of duty now collected by the United States on coconut oil imported from foreign countries.
It is, of course, wholly clear that the intent of the Congress by this provision was to exempt from import duty 448,000,000 pounds of coconut oil from the Philippines.
Later in the present session, the Congress in the Revenue Act imposed a three cent per pound processing tax on coconut oil from the Philippines. This action was of course directly contrary to the intent of the provision in the Independence Act cited above.
During this same period, the people of the Philippine Islands through their Legislature accepted the provisions of the Independence Act on May 1, 1934.
There are three reasons why I request reconsideration by the Congress of the provision for a three cent per pound processing tax.
First, it is a withdrawal of an offer made by the Congress of the United States to the people of the Philippine Islands.
Second, enforcement of this provision at this time will produce a serious condition among many thousands of families in the Philippine Islands.
Third, no effort has been made to work out some form of compromise which would be less unjust to the Philippine people and at the same time attain, even if more slowly, the object of helping the butter and animal fat industry in the United States.
I, therefore, request reconsideration of that provision of the Revenue Act which relates to coconut oil in order that the subject may be studied further between now and next January, and in order that the spirit and intent of the Independence Act be more closely followed.
  