
    President Bush to Appoint 16 Individuals to Serve in His Administration
President George W. Bush today announced his intention to appoint 16 individuals to serve in his administration.
The President intends to appoint the following ten individuals to serve as Members of the President's New Freedom Commission on Mental Health:
Dr. Jane Adams is currently the Executive Director of Keys for Networking, Inc., in Topeka, Kansas. Dr. Adams recently served as an appointee to the Kansas State Mental Health Task Force to examine hospital closures and as a trainer at Wraparound Kansas Mental Health Centers.
Rodolfo Arredondo is a Professor of Psychiatry at Texas Tech University in Lubbock, Texas, and serves as the Executive Director of the Southwest Institute for Addictive Diseases as well as the Co-Director of the Center for Tobacco Intervention and Control.
Dr. Daniel B. Fisher is the Co-Director of the National Empowerment Center in Lawrence, Massachusetts, which has produced a number of training tools kits, curriculums and videos promoting the concept of recovery from mental illness. Dr. Fisher has broad experience as a researcher, practicing psychiatrist and advocate for the mentally ill.
Dr. Anil Godbole is presently a psychiatrist with Advocate North Side Health Network in Chicago, Illinois, and he is the Chairperson of the Advocate Behavioral Health Council.
Dr. Henry Troutman Harbin is the Chairman and CEO of Magellan Health Services in Columbia, Maryland. Prior to joining Magellan, Dr. Harbin was the co-founder of Green Spring, which grew to be one of the largest managed behavioral healthcare companies in the country, and from 1978 to 1988, he served as Director and Regional Director of the State of Maryland Mental Health Administration. Dr. Harbin is the founder and past Chairman of the American Managed Behavioral Healthcare Association.
Ginger Lerner-Wren is a Judge in the 17th Judicial Circuit in Ft. Lauderdale, Florida. In 1993, she was appointed to serve as the Public Guardian of the Seventeenth Judicial Circuit, and in 1997, the Chief Judge of the Seventeenth Circuit appointed her to preside over the nation's first Mental Health Court.
Robert Neil Postlethwait of Zionsville, Indiana, was most recently the President of the Neuroscience Product Division for Eli Lilly where he served from 1971 to 1999.
Waltraud Ellinger Prechter is Chairman of Prechter Holding, Inc., in Southgate, Michigan. Mrs. Prechter was instrumental in establishing the Depression Center at the University of Michigan and she founded the Heinz C. Prechter Fund for Manic Depression to help develop a cure for bipolar disorder.
Randolph John Townsend served as a Member of the Nevada State Senate from 1983 to 2001. He played a vital role in shaping the state's health care policies and secured funding to enhance mental health services throughout the state and improve insurance coverage for people with severe mental illness.
Deanna Felber Yates is a Psychologist in private practice in San Antonio, Texas, and the President-elect Designate of the Texas Psychological Association.
The President intends to appoint the following six individuals to serve as Members of the Board of Trustees of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts:
For the remainder of a six-year term expiring September 1, 2006:Smith Bagley of the District of ColumbiaWilliam Francis McSweeny of the District of ColumbiaFrank Hilton Pearl of the District of ColumbiaMark S. Weiner of Rhode IslandThomas Edgar Wheeler of the District of Columbia
For the remainder of a six-year term expiring September 1, 2002 and an additional six-year term expiring September 1, 2008:Albert B. Glickman of Maine
  