
    Today, California Attorney General Xavier Becerra released the following statement endorsing Joe Biden for President of the United States:
"I ask every American to join me in supporting Joe Biden for President. We need a leader in the White House who is not only committed to fighting for hard working Americans, but knows how to govern and uphold the rule of law. Vice President Biden is a man of experience, knowledge, and grit — traits sorely missed in today's world of unprecedented challenge.
"A President Joe Biden will leave no doubt that he will tackle the festering shortcomings that have prolonged today's public health crisis. He will heed facts and science. He will faithfully execute the law. He will lead by example, not presumption. And he will put Americans back to work safely and ensure our nation bounces back.
"I served with Vice President Biden. I worked with him. I know first-hand his commitment and ethic to serve and defend every American.
"This is 2020, not 1920. It's time for every American to have health security. It's time for a leader who knows how to put America back to work safely. It's time for a President who has earned the respect of the American people and their confidence. It's time for Joe Biden as President."
Xavier Becerra serves as the Attorney General of California. Sworn in in 2017, Becerra became the first Latino to serve that role. Prior to serving as Attorney General, Becerra represented Los Angeles in the U.S. House of Representatives for 12 terms, including 10 years as a U.S. House leader. Attorney General Becerra has sued Donald Trump more than 80 times to stand up for working families and currently leads the fight to protect the Affordable Care Act before the Supreme Court, joined by a coalition of 20 states and D.C. as 18 Republican states and the Trump Administration attempt to destroy the law in its entirety. Additionally, he leads the multistate coalition that's fighting to protect DACA before the Supreme Court.
Becerra also joins a strong list of California leaders backing Biden, including House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, Senator Kamala Harris, Senator Dianne Feinstein, Governor Gavin Newsom, and Representatives Ami Bera, Karen Bass, Peter Aguilar, Tony Cardenas, Gil Cisneros, Doris Matsui, Lou Correa, Jim Costa, John Garamendi, Jared Huffman, Jerry McNerney, Scott Peters, Katie Porter, Harley Roua, Lucille Roybal-Allard, Raul Ruiz, Brad Sherman, Jackie Spier, Juan Vargas, Adam Schiff, Ted Lieu, Julia Brownley, Mike Levin, Barbara Lee, Ro Khanna, and Josh Harder.
Nationally, Biden for President has previously announced more than 2,500 endorsements from national, state, and local leaders, including current and former U.S. senators and representatives, governors, state elected officials, community leaders, and national security professionals.
  