
    THANK YOU very, very much, Dan. These two people have done a great job, and I can't thank both of them enough, and I am very, very appreciative. But there's no way I can express my appreciation adequately for what all you have done except to say that Betty and I, or First Mama and I, are very, very grateful. [Laughter]
But we have some very good news. I just found out that CBS is projecting that I win in Kentucky by about 53 to 46, as I understand it. And the first returns in from Tennessee show us--what is it, Dick?--a six-point lead, with the first returns from Tennessee.
Let me just say we've got the momentum going. We got it back on the track in Michigan and Maryland, and we apparently have it back on track with several of the States that have reported already. We want that momentum going from now until Kansas City, and California is important.
One thing I do want to dispel and end it right here and now--some rumors were being spread. I can't tell you by whom, but they are totally unfounded. Some people were saying or writing that Jerry Ford was not going to make a big effort in California. That's not true, and after being here at Walnut Creek and Contra Costa County and all the other places I have been, I am getting very encouraged that an underdog can win in California.
That reception in Walnut Creek was one of the most inspirational and one of the nicest that I have ever had an opportunity to be a part of. And I know all of you helped, and I think you can express to your friends and neighbors in Walnut Creek and the county how deeply grateful I am. I wish you would, because I leave this county with warm, warm feelings and a feeling that, you know, sometime maybe at the end of another 4 years we might come back and see you on a more permanent basis.
Again, I want to thank Dan and Claudia and all of you. If I could just mingle and shake hands--I have made enough speeches today, so I would just like to say hello and thank all of you personally as well as meet you.Thank you very, very much.
  