
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate three individuals and appoint two individuals to serve in his administration:
The President intends to nominate George A. Krol of New Jersey, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Belarus. A career member of the Senior Foreign Service, Mr. Krol is currently attending the Senior Seminar at the National Foreign Affairs Training Center. Previously he served as the Minister-Counselor for Political Affairs in Moscow and as Director of the Office of Russian Affairs. Other overseas posts include Deputy Chief of Mission for the U.S. Embassy in Minsk, Belarus and Political/Economic Officer for the U.S. Embassy in Kiev, Ukraine. Mr. Krol earned his bachelor's degree from Harvard University and his master's degree from Oxford University.
The President intends to nominate Howard Radzely of Maryland, to be Solicitor for the Department of Labor. Mr. Radzely currently serves as Deputy Solicitor for the Department of Labor, where he earlier served as Acting Solicitor. Prior to joining the Department of Labor, Mr. Radzely served as a Senior Associate with the law firm of Wiley, Rein, & Fielding. Earlier in his career, he served as law clerk for the Honorable Antonin Scalia, Associate Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States and as a law clerk for Judge J. Michael Luttig of the United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit. Mr. Radzely earned his bachelor's degree from the University of Pennsylvania and his J.D. from Harvard Law School.
The President intends to nominate Morgan Edwards of North Carolina, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the National Institute of Building Sciences, for the remainder of a three-year term expiring September 7, 2005.
The President intends to appoint Paul R. Corts of Florida, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Federal Prison Industries, Inc. (Justice Representative).
The President intends to appoint John Hartnedy of Arkansas, to be a Member of the Department of Defense Retirement Board of Actuaries, for the remainder of a fifteen-year term expiring September 17, 2014.
  