
    President Donald J. Trump welcomed Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas to the White House today to discuss the advancement of Middle East peace and the strengthening of United States-Palestinian relations. President Trump and President Abbas reaffirmed the commitment of both the United States and the Palestinian Authority to achieving a genuine and lasting peace between the Israelis and Palestinians. President Trump stressed that he is personally committed to helping Israelis and Palestinians achieve a comprehensive peace, and that any peace settlement can only be the product of direct negotiations between the Israelis and Palestinians. President Trump expressed appreciation for President Abbas' unambiguous support for a negotiated settlement of the conflict. Both leaders agreed that while the United States can support progress toward a peace deal, a solution cannot be imposed on the Israelis and Palestinians by any party, including by one side on the other. The two leaders discussed the value of actions that can help create a climate conducive to tangible progress toward peace.
President Trump and President Abbas reaffirmed the joint determination of the Palestinian Authority and the United States to combating violence and terrorism. The two leaders discussed the importance of the United States-Palestinian partnership in building and sustaining the capacity of Palestinian security forces to counter terrorism, maintaining peace and security for the Palestinians, and continuing strong coordination with the Israeli government to benefit both peoples. President Trump emphasized the importance of making a clear commitment to preventing inflammatory rhetoric and to stopping incitement, and to continue strengthening efforts to combat terrorism. President Trump raised his concerns about payments to Palestinian prisoners in Israeli jails who have committed terrorist acts, and to their families, and emphasized the need to resolve this issue.
President Trump highlighted his commitment to enabling meaningful economic growth in the West Bank and Gaza Strip, which will enhance the prospects for a just and lasting peace. The two leaders agreed to continue close consultations.
  