
    Senior congressmen are California superdelegates
Chicago, IL - Congressman Henry Waxman and Congressman Howard Berman, major committee chairmen and California superdelegates, endorsed Barack Obama today, citing his ability to unite the country and put and end to eight years of failed Bush policies. Congressman Waxman chairs the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform; Congressman Berman chairs the House Committee on Foreign Affairs. Both are respected leaders in the American Jewish community and major voices in Democratic policymaking.
"Senator Obama's vision for change has inspired tens of millions of Americans," Chairman Waxman said. "And he's also proved that he has the experience, judgment, integrity, and toughness to bring real reform to Washington. Our nation faces big challenges. We need to bring our troops safely home from Iraq. We need to solve global warming and finally enact universal health care legislation. And we need to create new jobs and strengthen our middle class. Senator Obama is the leader we need both here and around the world. He will be an extraordinary President, and I look forward to working with him to make his vision for change the new reality in Washington."
To view Chairman Waxman's full statement, click HERE.
"Barack Obama has laid out a foreign policy vision driven by principle and conviction, and he understands that our moral authority and our safety as a nation go hand in hand," Chairman Berman said. "I spoke with him about a number of foreign policy issues that most concern me. He assured me that he shares my views. The moment President Obama takes office, we'll send a powerful message to the world that America is back and ready to lead again-that we haven't abandoned the values that made us the light of the world, and neither should anyone else."
The endorsements bring Senator Obama's superdelegate total to 292.5. Obama is now 130.5 total delegates away from the nomination.
"Chairmen Waxman and Berman set the standard for leadership and judgment in Congress," Senator Obama said. "I'm humbled to have their support and grateful to have their counsel in this campaign. They know that this will be a defining election, and they know better than anyone the grit and hard work it's going to take to turn things around and deliver for the American people again. We couldn't ask for two more gifted or dedicated lawmakers to lead this coalition for change."
  