
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

At no time in recent history has international commerce been so important to the economic productivity and strength of the United States. As more and more peoples around the world join the ranks of free and democratic nations and reform their economies on the basis of market principles, American business, agriculture, and industry face unpecedented opportunities and challenges. Thus, it is fitting that we pause to recognize the role of international trade in creating jobs for our citizens while spurring America's productivity and competitiveness.
Today the success of U.S. exporters is driving our Nation's economy toward stronger growth. Last year, U.S. merchandise exports soared to a record high of $422 billion. Our trade deficit dropped to $66 billion, the lowest level since 1983. Exports not only mean jobs to the men and women who develop, grow, manufacture, and market products for sale abroad but also help to bring prosperity to our communities.
This Administration will continue to work in partnership with U.S. business and industry to promote the quality of American goods and services and to eliminate barriers to free and fair trade. The United States led the way in initiating the current set of negotiations on the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT), and we will continue to work to bring the Uruguay Round to a successful conclusion. We also remain committed to the full implementation of our Enterprise for the Americas Initiative, as well as to the completion of a North American Free Trade Agreement, which will create a thriving market of 360 million consumers and an estimated $6 trillion annual output -- the largest integrated market in the world. The United States is determined to advance our free trade agenda on both the multilateral and bilateral levels.
There remains tremendous export potential in America today, and much of it lites with small- and medium-sized companies. In fact, while the United Staes leads the world in exports, just 15 percent of our exporters account for more than 60 percent of the value of goods shipped across our borders. American businesses and industries, large and small, must take advantage of recent events in the world marketplace and recommit themselves to the aggressive pursuit of export markets abroad. The Trade Promotion Coordinating Committee, which is chaired by the Secretary of Commerce and comprised of 18 Federal agencies, was established to coordinate government export programs and to assist American business in their exporting efforts.
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush, President of the United States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim the week of May 17 through May 23, 1992, as World Trade Week. In encourage all Americans to observe this week with appropriate programs, ceremonies, and activities.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my this eighteenth day of May, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-two, and of the Independence of the United States of American the two hundred and sixteenth.

GEORGE BUSH
  