
    Previewing Today:  Hillary hosts a "Solutions for Puerto Rico's Families" town hall in Aguadilla, Puerto Rico.
Fiscal Responsibility  in South Dakota: "As gas and grocery prices continue to climb heading into this Memorial Day weekend, Senator Hillary Clinton joined families [yesterday]  at a local Sunshine Foods grocery store in Brandon, SD [to discuss] her commitment to fiscal responsibility and her plans to provide relief and economic opportunity to South Dakota families...[Hillary said:] ‘The contrast with Senator McCain couldn't be greater. John McCain would take President Bush's reckless record and double down. He is proposing more than $400 billion in new tax cuts and spending programs without a hint as to how he would pay for them.'" Read more.
"Everybody's Vote, Everybody's Voice" Yesterday, Hillary "spoke to about 300 invited supporters at a suburban Sioux Falls grocery store before heading to Brookings for an evening rally."  While she spoke, "a woman and her two grand-daughters peeked around a display of Rice Crispy cereal boxes...[the woman said] she doesn't want Clinton to step out of the race until after the last states vote. ‘Everybody's vote, everybody's voice should be heard in this,' she said."  Read more.
On the Ropeline: The New York Times reports, "You can learn a lot about the state of a campaign from its rope lines, and about the style of the person running...Mrs. Clinton lingers, chats and signs her first name — on a Krispy Kreme box, construction gloves and a ‘Mrs. President'  Girl Scout patch (one night alone in Kentucky last week). Her supporters cling to her and urge her not to quit." Read more.
Supporters "In the Race to the End" "‘If she's in it, I'm in it,' said Tanner, 32, an accountant from Birmingham, Alabama, who has taken weeks of vacation and paid her own way to Texas, Pennsylvania, Indiana and Kentucky to wave signs, canvass neighborhoods and shout herself hoarse...Paula Steinher, a 58-year-old housewife from Anderson, Ohio, has worked phone banks in three states. ‘I say, ‘Go to the end.''"  Read more.
Real Solutions:  In the wake of a new Pentagon report on faulty Iraq war contracting practices, Hillary said yesterday, "As President, I would ensure our government is accountable for the taxpayer dollars it spends. I will make certain that the Pentagon is handling taxpayers' money with care...These are the most basic functions of a government that operates with accountability and care...I will soon introduce legislation - and push aggressively for its passage - aimed at making our government contracting process work again." Read more.
  