
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate five individuals to serve in his administration.
The President intends to nominate Douglas Alan Hartwick to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Lao People's Democratic Republic. A career member of the Senior Foreign Service, he has served as Director of the Office of Philippines, Indonesia, Malaysia, Brunei and Singapore Affairs since 1997. He served as the Counselor of Embassy for Economic and Science Affairs in Dew Delhi and has served as the Economic Counselor in Kuala Lumpur. He has served in a variety of other posts both in Washington D.C. and abroad. He is a graduate of the College of William and Mary, holds Master's degrees from Washington State University and the National Defense University.
The President intends to nominate Alberto Jose Mora to be General Counsel of the Department of the Navy. He is currently Of Counsel at the Law Firm of Greenberg Traurig in Washington, D.C., and was a Partner with Holland & Knight from 1993 to 1997. From 1989 to 1993, he served as General Counsel at the United States Information Agency and worked as an Attorney in Miami, Florida, from 1981 to 1989. Mora has been a Governor on the Broadcasting Board of Governors since 1995 and sits on the Board of Directors for Radio Free Europe and Radio Free Asia. He is a former Foreign Service Officer and is a graduate of Swathmore College and University of Miami School of Law.
The President intends to nominate Everet Beckner to be Deputy Administrator for Defense Programs at the Department of Energy. He is currently the Deputy Chief Executive of Atomic Weapons Establishment for the Lockheed Martin Corporation and served at the Department of Energy from 1990 to 1996 as Deputy Assistant Secretary for Defense Programs. He served at Sandia National Laboratories from 1961 to 1986 in a variety of positions including Vice President of Defense Programs from 1986 to 1991. Originally from New Mexico, he is a graduate of Baylor University and received a Master's degree and Ph.D. from Rice University.
The President intends to nominate Thomas C. Hubbard to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Korea. He is presently the Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for East Asia and Pacific Affairs, and from 1996 to 2000 he concurrently held the posts of Ambassador to the Republic of the Philippines and to the Republic of Palau. From 1993 to 1996 he was Deputy Assistant Secretary for East Asian and Pacific Affairs and as Minister and Deputy Chief of Mission in Manila from 1990 to 1993. He has filled various other positions both at the Department of State and overseas since joining the Foreign Service in 1965. Originally from Tennessee, he is a graduate of the University of Alabama.
The President intends to nominate William Riley to serve as a Judge on the United States Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit.
  