
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

Safe drinking water is a vital resource. Yet, because our drinking water in the United States is generally low in cost and high in quality, it is easily taken for granted. Thus, this week, we recognize the care and cooperation of those scientists, engineers, lawmakers, water plant operators, and regulatory officials who bring safe and inexpensive drinking water to our taps each day.
Thanks, in large part, to the work of these Americans, serious health problems caused by contaminated drinking water -- such as epidemics of cholera and typhoid -- have been eliminated in the United States. Today, under the leadership of the Environmental Protection Agency, scientists and water system operators are working to maintain the safety of our drinking water.
The Safe Drinking Water Act of 1974 established standards for drinking water safety, giving the country its first comprehensive national program to protect public drinking water. In 1986, the Congress amended the Act to require guidelines for protecting groundwater, a crucial source of drinking water, from contamination. The Act as amended (Public Law 99-939) also prohibits the use of lead pipe in public drinking water systems.
With the replacement or repair of aging pipes and equipment, the improved operation and maintenance of water treatment facilities, and the implementation of new technologies and conservation programs, our Nation can look forward to a ready supply of safe drinking water for generations to come. Ensuring continued progress toward this goal will require the ongoing efforts of Federal, State, and local government leaders and the sustained cooperation of scientists, waterworks officials, and consumers alike.
In recognition of the importance of safe drinking water, the Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 230, has designated May 6 through May 12, 1990, as "National Drinking Water Week" and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of that week.
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim May 6 through May 12, 1990, as National Drinking Water Week. I call upon government officials and the people of the United States to observe this week with appropriate programs, ceremonies, and activities.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this third day of May, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fourteenth.

GEORGE BUSH
  