
    MRS. OBAMA: Thank you! Oh, it's great to be here.
MR. DALY: By the way, throughout our studio audience tonight, our country's finest active-duty servicemen and women, veterans and their families. Welcome, all of you, and thank you so much also for being here tonight. (Applause.) Special night for us here at The Voice. And I want to say welcome to the both of you again. It is so great to have you here.
MRS. OBAMA: Thanks so much, Carson. It's great to be here.
DR. BIDEN: We're thrilled to be here.
MR. DALY: Well, your Joining Forces initiative is celebrating its fifth anniversary, and, as we all know, May is Military Appreciation Month. It's only because of our military's service and sacrifice that we all have a voice.
MRS. OBAMA: Carson, we are so excited to be kicking off this anniversary with all of you at The Voice. And we are particularly excited to be here with these extraordinary military families! (Applause.) Absolutely.
Over the past five years, through Joining Forces, Jill and I have had the privilege of traveling across this country and around the world to meet our troops, veterans and our military families. And we are just in awe of them. We're in awe of their courage and their patriotism.
DR. BIDEN: You know, this is personal. Michelle and I have seen the incredible resilience of our military and their families, and we wanted to show them how much we appreciate their service with real, concrete action through employment, education and wellness initiatives. Joining Forces gives all Americans the opportunity to show their support for those who serve and sacrifice so much for our country. (Applause.)
MR. DALY: Thank you so much. So grateful to have you guys here. (Applause.) Mrs. Obama, I don't want to put you on the spot, but if you'd like to have the honors of introducing our next special performance, we'd be honored.
MRS. OBAMA: It is a pleasure. In honor of our brave men and women in uniform, our veterans and their families, please welcome your Top 10 singing "Home." (Applause.)
(Performance begins.)
  