
    The President announced his intention today to nominate five individuals to serve in his Administration:
The President intends to nominate Diane G. Farrell, of Connecticut, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Export-Import Bank of the United States for the remainder of a four-year term expiring 01/20/11. Mrs. Farrell recently served as First Selectwoman of Westport, Connecticut. Prior to this, she served as a member of Westport's Board of Finance. Prior to entering public service, she worked in the advertising industry in Los Angeles and New York City. Mrs. Farrell received her bachelor's degree from Wheaton College.
The President intends to nominate Preston M. Geren, of Texas, to be Secretary of the Army. Mr. Geren currently serves as Under Secretary of the Army and Acting Secretary of the Army. Prior to this, he served as Acting Secretary of the Air Force. Earlier in his career, he served as Special Assistant to the Secretary of Defense. Mr. Geren received his bachelor's degree and JD from the University of Texas.
The President intends to nominate James W. Holsinger, Jr., of Kentucky, to be Medical Director in the Regular Corps of the Public Health Service and Surgeon General of the Public Health Service at the Department of Health and Human Services. Dr. Holsinger currently serves as the Wethington Endowed Chair in the Health Sciences and Professor of Preventive Medicine in the College of Public Health at the University of Kentucky. Prior to this, he served as Secretary of the Cabinet for Health and Family Services of the Commonwealth of Kentucky. Earlier in his career, he served as Chief Medical Director of the Veterans Health Administration. Dr. Holsinger received his bachelor's degree from the University of Kentucky, his master's degrees from the University of South Carolina and Asbury Theological Seminary, and his PhD and MD from Duke University.
The President intends to nominate Michael W. Michalak, of Michigan, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Socialist Republic of Vietnam. Mr. Michalak, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, currently serves as United States Senior Official to the Asian Pacific Economic Cooperation Forum at the Department of State. Prior to this, he served as Deputy Chief of Mission at the United States Embassy in Tokyo, Japan. Earlier in his career, he served as Deputy Director of the China Desk for Economics at the Bureau of East Asian and Pacific Affairs. Mr. Michalak received his bachelor's degree from Oakland University and his master's degrees from Catholic University and Harvard University.
The President intends to nominate Robert Charles Tapella, of Virginia, to be the Public Printer. Mr. Tapella currently serves as Chief of Staff of the United States Government Printing Office. Prior to this, he served as Deputy Chief of Staff at the United States Government Printing Office. Earlier in his career, he ran Kelly Communications. Mr. Tapella received his bachelor's degree from California Polytechnic State University.
  