
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate two individuals to serve in his administration:
The President intends to nominate James G. Roche of Maryland, to be Secretary of the Army. He currently serves as Secretary of the Air Force. Prior to returning to the Department of Defense in 2001, he served as Corporate Vice President and President of the Electric Sensors and Systems Sector of the Northrop Grumman Corporation where he served since 1984. Earlier, Roche served as Democratic Staff Director for the U.S. Senate Committee on Armed Services from 1983 to 1984 and served at the State Department as Principal Deputy Director of the Policy Planning Staff. He was a senior professional staff member of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence from 1979 to 1981, and served as Assistant Director of the Office of Net Assessment in the Office of the Secretary of Defense from 1975 to 1979. Roche is a twenty-three year veteran of the U.S. Navy, received his bachelor's degree from the Illinois Institute of Technology, his master's degree from the U.S. Naval Postgraduate School and his doctorate from Harvard Business School.
The President intends to nominate Colin R. McMillan of New Mexico, to be Secretary of the Navy. Currently, he is Chairman and CEO of the Permian Exploration Corporation. In July 2001, McMillan was appointed by the President to serve as Chairman of the Board for Sallie Mae, Inc. Earlier in his career, he served as Pecos River Commissioner for the State of New Mexico and as Secretary of the New Mexico State Board of Finance. In March of 1990, McMillan was appointed by President George H. W. Bush to be Assistant Secretary of Defense (Production and Logistics). He served as Assistant Secretary until 1992, the same year he was honored by the Department with a Medal for Distinguished Services. McMillan served as a member of the New Mexico Legislature from 1971 to 1982. He is a graduate of the University of North Carolina and then went on to serve on active duty in the U.S. Marine Corps and the Marine Corps Reserve.
  