
    As Prepared for Delivery—
Good evening. In the life of our nation, there are few more sacred places than our national cemeteries—around the world, at Arlington and our national cemeteries across our country.
Earlier today, I was honored to join the Memorial Day ceremony at the Abraham Lincoln National Cemetery in Elwood, Illinois. Unfortunately, some very severe storms moved in, and for the safety of all involved, the ceremony was cancelled. But while the storm raged outside, I was fortunate to meet with some of the families, friends and veterans who had come to honor loved ones who had given their lives in service to this nation. Later, I was privileged to visit with families of our wounded warriors as they battle to recover from the wounds of war.
These families know in their hearts what every American must never forget. At its core, the nobility and majesty of Memorial Day can be found in the story of ordinary Americans who became extraordinary for the most simple of reasons: they loved their country so deeply, so profoundly, that they were willing to give their very lives to keep it safe and free.
In another time, they might have led a life of comfort and ease. But a revolution needed to be won. A Union needed to be preserved. Our harbor was bombed. Our country was attacked on clear September morning.
So they answered their country's call. They stepped forward. They raised their hand. They took an oath. And they earned a title they would define them for the rest of their lives. Soldier. Sailor. Airman. Marine. Coast Guardsman.
In the letters they wrote home they spoke of the horrors of war and the bravery it summoned—how they endured the slaughter of the trenches and the chaos of beach landings, the bitter cold of a Korean winter and the endless heat of a Vietnam jungle.
Today, we can imagine what it must have been like, for all those they fought to save, when American forces came into view. A country was liberated. A Holocaust was over. A town was rid of insurgents. A village was finally free from the terror of violent extremists.
But had you asked any of these troops, they would have likely told you the same thing. Yes, we fought for freedom. Yes, we fought for that flag. But most of all, we fought for each other—to bring our buddies home; to keep our families safe. And that is what they did, to their last breath.
This is what we honor today—the lives they led, the service they rendered, the sacrifice they made—for us. In this time of war, we pay special tribute to the thousands of Americans who have given their lives during the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq and who have earned their place among the greatest of generations. And though our hearts ache in their absence, we find comfort in knowing that their legacy shines bright in the people they loved—America's Gold Star families.
Their legacy lives on in the pride of their parents, like the mother who wrote to me about her son, Specialist Stephan Mace, who gave his life in Afghanistan. She told me, "I just wanted you to know what kind of hero he was." To all these moms and dads, you instilled in your sons and daughters the values and virtues that led them to service. To you, every American owes a debt of profound gratitude.
Their legacy lives on in the love of their spouses—the wives and husbands who gave to our nation the person they cherished most in the world. To all these spouses, you have sacrificed in ways most Americans cannot even begin to imagine, but as you summon the strength to carry on each day, know that you are not alone. America will always be at your side.
Their legacy lives on in their beautiful children. To all these sons and daughters, we say as one nation: your moms and dads gave their lives so you could live yours. America will be there for you as well, as you grow into the men and women your parents knew you could be.
Their legacy lives on in those who fought alongside them—our veterans who came home and our troops who are still in harm's way. Just as you keep alive the memory of your fallen friends, America must keep its commitments to you. That means providing the support our troops and families need, and the health care and benefits our veterans deserve. This is our sacred trust to all who serve, and upholding that trust is our moral obligation.
Finally, on this day of remembrance, I say to every American—the legacy of these fallen heroes lives on in each of us. The security that lets us live in peace, the prosperity that allows us to pursue our dreams, the freedoms that we cherish—these were earned by the blood and sacrifice of patriots who went before. Now it falls to us to preserve this inheritance for all who follow.
They proclaimed our unalienable rights, so let us speak out for the dignity of every human being and rights that are universal. They saved the Union, so let us never stop working to perfect it. They defeated fascism and laid the foundation for decades of prosperity, so let us renew the sources of American strength and innovation at home. They forged alliances that won a long Cold War, so let us build the partnerships for a just and lasting peace.
And today, our forces are fighting and dying once more, in faraway lands, to keep our homeland safe. So let us be worthy of their sacrifice. Let us go forward as they do—with the confidence and the resolve, the resilience and the unity that has always defined us as a people, shaped us as a nation and made America a beacon of hope to the world.
May God bless our fallen heroes and may He comfort their families. And may God bless the United States of America.
  