
    The following listing includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the White House Press Office and not included elsewhere in this issue.
May 20
The President returned to the White House following his commencement address at Cheyney State College, Cheyney, Pa.
May 21
The President met at the White House with:
—Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs;
—Frank B. Moore, Assistant to the President for Congressional Liaison;
—the Cabinet;
—U.S. Ambassador to Egypt Alfred L. Atherton, Jr., and Mrs. Atherton.
The President participated in a briefing by administration officials on the strategic arms limitation agreement given for a group of Senators in the East Room at the White House.
May 22
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Mr. Moore;
—the Democratic congressional leadership;
—Mrs. Carter, for lunch;
—James T. Mcintyre, Jr., Director of the Office of Management and Budget.
In a ceremony in the Oval Office, the President greeted Lisa Branchina, 15, of Hampton, Va., the 5 millionth winner of the Presidential Physical Fitness Award. Participants in the ceremony included officials of the President's Council on Physical Fitness and Sports, and the American Alliance for Health, Physical Education, Recreation and Dance, Minnie Branchina, Lisa's mother, and George Nailor, Lisa's physical education teacher.
The President participated in a briefing by administration officials on the strategic arms limitation agreement given for a group of civic and community leaders in the East Room at the White House.
May 25
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Mr. Moore, Danny C. Tate, Deputy Assistant for Congressional Liaison (Senate), and William B. Cable, Deputy Assistant for Congressional Liaison (House);
—Senators J. James Exon, Birch Bayh, John C. Culver, Gary W. Hart, Nancy Landon Kassebaum, George McGovern, and Edward Zorinsky, Secretary of Energy James R. Schlesinger, and White House staff members, to discuss the energy situation in the Midwest;
—Vice President Walter F. Mondale, Stansfield Turner, Director of Central Intelligence, Hamilton Jordan, Assistant to the President, and Dr. Brzezinski;
—Representative James R. Jones of Oklahoma, to discuss hospital cost containment legislation;
—Senator Donald W. Riegle, Jr., of Michigan;
—Representative William R. Cotter of Connecticut, to discuss hospital cost containment legislation.
The President has designated the Secretaries of Commerce, Housing and Urban Development, and Transportation, the Administrator of General Services, the Chairman of the National Museum Services Board, and the Director of the Institute of Museum Services, as members of the Federal Council on the Arts and the Humanities.
The President participated in the swearing-in ceremony for Richard F. Celeste as Director of the Peace Corps held in the East Room at the White House.
May 24
The President met at the White House with:
—Vice President Mondale, Secretary of the Treasury W. Michael Blumenthal, Charles L. Schultze, Chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers, Alfred E. Kahn, Advisor to the President on Inflation and Chairman of the Council on Wage and Price Stability, Barry P. Bosworth, Director of the Council on Wage and Price Stability, Stuart E. Eizenstat, Assistant to the President for Domestic Affairs and Policy, and Mr. McIntyre; —Dr. Brzezinski;
—Mr. Moore, Mr. Cable, Mr. Tate, and Robert G. Beckel, Special Assistant for Congressional Liaison (House);
—Vice President Mondale;
—Peter Shapiro, chief executive of Essex County, N.J.
The President participated in a briefing by administration officials on the strategic arms limitation agreement given for a group of civic and community leaders in the East Room at the White House.
The President is sending Deputy Assistant to the President Bill Simpson on a followup tour of the flood disaster area in Mississippi. The President has directed Simpson to talk with State and local officials and with citizens in Jackson and smaller communities, and to provide him with an update on the progress of the recovery effort in all affected sections of the State. Simpson will visit Columbia, Valley Park, Canton, and Jackson on Friday, May 25, to gather information for his report to the President.
May 25
The President met at the White House with:
—Vice President Mondale, Secretary of Defense Harold Brown, Deputy Secretary of State Warren Christopher, Dr. Brzezinski, and Mr. Jordan;
—Mr. Moore;
—Mr. Schultze;
—R. Heath Larry, president, and Forrest I. Rettgers, executive vice president, National Association of Manufacturers.
The President left the White House for Camp David, Md., where he spent the Memorial Day weekend.
  