
    Mr. President, Madam Giscard d'Estaing, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen:
Thank you very kindly, Mr. President, for your very thoughtful and very generous words. Mrs. Ford and I are most appreciative and highly honored for the opportunity to join with you and your many friends here on this occasion this evening.
Once again I have a firsthand opportunity and a welcome opportunity, I might say, to enjoy the incomparable hospitality and cuisine of the French people as well as yourself. France's reputation, as we all know, for its hospitality is just one of the many dimensions of French contributions to the world as a whole.
Frequent mention has been made during your visit, and appropriately so, Mr. President, of France's role in our struggle in this country for our independence. Yet the French influence in America long preceded 1776. Much of the New World was opened by French explorers such as Marquette and LaSalle. Their influence is very obvious, very apparent in the names of American towns and American cities, north and south, from Detroit to Joliet to New Orleans.
French influence is still very vivid in Louisiana, which you, Mr. President, will visit later this week. Closer to home, we enjoy the superb artistry of L'Enfant and design of our beautiful Capital City. It was he who selected the site for the Capitol Building and for the White House itself, creating for the latter a beautiful President's park where your helicopter landed just yesterday.
For this reason, I am pleased at the renewed interest on both sides that my visit at your invitation has generated in our two countries. For the people of France, it has been an occasion to discover the realities of present-day America as they have been presented on this occasion by our combined information services.
I would like to think that it has also helped the American people to become better acquainted with the France of today, the France that is changing by virtue of her younger outlook and her sense of effort.
For this reason, I also set great value--as you know you do, too, Mr. President-on the cooperation that we have decided to implement in an area that is limited but full of human implications. I am referring to the war on cancer. I shall follow its development personally.
French philosophers have profoundly influenced and inspired the nature of our democracy and the spirit of our laws in America. Thanks in a very large measure to the writings of Montesquieu and Rousseau, our nations share a heritage of human values. These values are today the very basis of our philosophy, of our freedom, our justice as well as our equality.
America remains greatly inspired by the wisdom and the vision of France in the history of our great country. It is especially gratifying to celebrate the Bicentennial of our independence with the distinguished President of our country's oldest friend and oldest ally. Ours is a partnership and an alliance unique in world history, a relationship which each has extended the hand of friendship and assistance to the other in the hour of maximum peril.
As in the past, our security and our prosperity still depend upon our willingness to work together, to cooperate in meeting common problems and meeting common challenges.
We meet tonight, Mr. President, in a time of peace. Continued peace requires that every democracy remain strong and prepared to defend its liberty. As Washington said: To be prepared for war is one of the most effectual means of preserving the peace.
In a gesture symbolic of the commitment of both of our nations to safeguarding the security of our peoples, Madam Giscard d'Estaing will travel to Mississippi in the next day or two to christen the United States Navy's newest destroyer, the DeGrasse. And I compliment you and wish you well on that fine occasion on Saturday.
This ship, Mr. President, named for the French admiral whose fleet made possible a very decisive victory at Yorktown will contribute to the strength and to the capability of our own Navy. The DeGrasse will also contribute to the objectives and to the goals that we share with France--to preserve the peace, to protect our freedom, and to keep the sea lanes of the world fully open to the democratic nations.
Mr. President, for 200 years France and the United States shared dreams, shared challenges, shared victories in every sphere of human endeavor. The mutual esteem and inspiration which mark our relationship today flow from common ideals, determination, and mutual reinforcement. I foresee a very vital partnership for generations to come between our two nations.
And I might say on a personal basis, Mr. President, it has been a unique and a wonderful experience for me to have made your acquaintance and to have worked with you, and I look forward to a continuation of that experience for what I hope is the benefit of our countries for a good many years to come.
It is altogether fitting that the nations which two centuries ago gave the world two very fundamental charters of liberty--our Declaration of Independence and the declaration of the rights of man--should still stand together for freedom and for justice for all.
So, let us toast that partnership on the eve of its third century. To the health of the President of the French Republic and to the liberty, equality, and fraternity of the people of France and the United States.
  