
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate three individuals and appoint two individuals to serve in his Administration.
The President intends to nominate Asif J. Chaudhry, of Washington, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Moldova. Mr. Chaudhry, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, currently serves as Deputy Administrator of the Office of Global Analysis at the Department of Agriculture. Prior to this, he served as Agricultural Minister Counselor at the United States Embassy in Cairo. Earlier in his career, he served as Assistant to the General Sales Manager of the Foreign Agriculture Service in the Office of the Administrator. Mr. Chaudhry received his bachelor's degree from the University of Punjab, his master's degree from the American University of Beirut and his PhD from Washington State University.
The President intends to nominate Husein A. Cumber, of Florida, to be a Member of the Surface Transportation Board, for a five-year term beginning 01/01/09. Mr. Cumber currently serves as Deputy Chief of Staff of the Department of Transportation. Prior to this, he served as Assistant to the Secretary for Policy at the Department of Transportation. Earlier in his career, he served as Vice President of Florida East Coast Industries, Inc. Mr. Cumber received his bachelor's degree from Duke University.
The President intends to nominate Tina S. Kaidanow, of the District of Columbia, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Kosovo. Ms. Kaidanow, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, currently serves as Chief of Mission in Pristina. Prior to this, Ms. Kaidanow served as Deputy Chief of Mission at the United States Embassy in Sarajevo. Earlier in her career, she served as Special Assistant to the Deputy Secretary of State. Ms. Kaidanow received her bachelor's and master's degrees from the University of Pennsylvania and another master's degree from Columbia University.
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the Commission on Wartime Contracting in Iraq and Afghanistan:
Grant S. Green, of Virginia
Dov S. Zakheim, of Maryland
  