
    To the Congress of the United States:
After extended efforts at settlement the Nation is once mare confronted by an emergency arising from an unresolved labor dispute in the railroad industry. The dispute involves disagreement over wages, hours and working conditions between the Brotherhood of Railway Signalman representing approximately 10,000 employees and the National Railway Labor Conference representing the Nation's railroads. Throughout the course of negotiations, the parties have had the assistance of the Federal Government in their efforts to resolve their differences. Now, all existing governmental procedures for resolving this dispute have been exhausted and the union has called a nationwide work stoppage this morning, May 17, 1971.
A nationwide stoppage of rail service would cause great hardship to all Americans and strike a serious blow at the Nation's economy. It is essential that our railroads continue to operate. I had hoped for a voluntary negotiated settlement of this dispute; however, this was not forthcoming. I am, therefore, recommending that Congress enact legislation which would extend the present negotiations until July 1, 1971. Such a recommendation is not only consistent with the national interest in continued rail service but preserves the processes of free collective bargaining. I have asked the Secretary of Labor to follow closely the situation as it develops, to continue assisting the parties and, if no settlement has been reached, to report to me and the Congress by June 21, 1971.
It is indeed regrettable that Congress must act once again to forestall another in a long line of crises occurring in the railroad industry. This situation reemphasizes the chaotic nature of collective bargaining in the transportation industry as it functions under existing legislation. The time has long since passed for active consideration and action by the Congress on the proposals which I have twice presented to it to resolve emergencies such as this in an equitable and conclusive manner and, thus, to preclude the necessity of Congressional action on each individual dispute. It is inexcusable that the Nation should continue to pay the price of archaic procedures for the resolution of labor-management disputes in the transportation industry.
However, pending such action, I must urge that Congress act immediately on the proposal we are now presenting so that a crippling stoppage can be averted and the Nation can continue to have rail service.
RICHARD NIXON
The White House
May 17, 1971
  