
    130 Members of NM National Guard C Company Head to Iraq, 20 Members of Combat Arms Training Company to go to Afghanistan
SANTA FE - New Mexico Governor, Bill Richardson, confirmed that President Bush has authorized the Department of Army to order to federal active duty two units and approximately 150 soldiers from the New Mexico National Guard.
"New Mexicans have always served our country with valor and I am sure that the Combat Arms Training Company and "C" Company of the 200th Infantry will continue this long, proud tradition," stated Governor Richardson. "I will join their families and loved ones in praying for their safe return."
The first unit-C Company, 200th Infantry, commanded by Captain John Anderson, is headquartered in Las Cruces. The unit will be mobilized for a period of up to 400 days to support Operation Iraqi Freedom.
A "Yellow Ribbon" departure ceremony will take place the week of June 10th, 2007 in Las Cruces. After the Yellow Ribbon Ceremony, the soldiers will depart for Fort Dix, New Jersey where they will receive a few weeks of additional training before departing for Iraq.
The second group of soldiers belongs to the Combat Arms Training Company. It is commanded by Major Frank Oliviera, and is headquartered in Santa Fe. The twenty-member group of soldiers will be mobilized for a period of up to 400 days to support Operation Enduring Freedom.
Final details for a "Yellow Ribbon" departure ceremony are still being worked out; however, the event will occur the week of September 16, 2007. After the Yellow Ribbon Ceremony, the soldiers will depart for Fort Riley, Kansas where they will receive 30 days of training before departing for Afghanistan.
Since 9/11, almost 4000 New Mexico Guardsmen have been deployed in support of Operations Noble Eagle, Enduring Freedom and Iraqi Freedom. These soldiers from C Company, 2nd Battalion, 200th Infantry and the Combat Arms Training Company are the second and third groups from the New Mexico National Guard to receive deployment orders this year.
The first deployment this year is A Company, 1st Battalion, 200th Infantry. They will report to Fort Dix, NJ on May 17th for 30-45 days of training and then will deploy to Iraq for a year.
  