
    Pool Reports by Cheryl Bolen, Bloomberg Government



Sent:
Reports:




May 30, 202010:31

In-town pool report #1 
It's 75 degrees outside, mostly sunny and Lafayette Square appeared empty and clean this morning as pooler arrived at the White House.
Both in-town and travel poolers were administered Abbott ID NOW Covid-19 tests and will be notified only if positive.
POTUS and FLOTUS are scheduled to depart at 12:10 p.m. today for Kennedy Space Center in Florida to watch the launch of the SpaceX capsule.



May 30, 202012:22

In-town pool report #2 
Call readout from White House:
Today, President Donald J. Trump spoke with President Emmanuel Macron of France. President Trump and President Macron discussed progress on convening the G7. The two leaders also discussed issues of mutual concern, including Hong Kong, Libya, and telecommunications security.



May 30, 202012:42

In-town pool report #3 
Departure:
POTUS emerged from the Diplomatic Room doors at 12:34 p.m. and walked over to take questions for 4 minutes, on space launch, MAGA protest tonight, Minneapolis and George Floyd.
Pool could barely hear over engines and will send quotes from TV feed. No sign of FLOTUS.
The weather in Washington is spectacular, 77 degrees, low humidity & slight breeze.
Marine One was wheels up for JBA at 12:42 p.m.



May 30, 202013:10

In-town pool report #4 
Quotes from departure [from a subpar recording]
Trump said he had an obligation to be at the SpaceX launch, even though it's a 50-50 shot that it will happen today. Otherwise it will be postponed until next Wednesday.
Was asked about his tweet this morning inviting a MAGA protest tonight. Trump said these are people who love their country and he has no idea if they're going to be here, he was just asking. "By the way, they love African American people, they love Black people," he said.
Was asked about protest last night. Trump thanked the Secret Service, calling them professional. Trump said he loves Minneapolis and has had success there. "They've got to get tougher," he said. "Honor the memory of George Floyd." But the city cannot let that happen, he said.
The mayor is probably a good person but is a radical left mayor, Trump said. When he saw the police running out of a station, and for it to be abandoned and taken over, he's never seen anything so horrible and stupid in his life. "And then I see them trying to justify it," he said.
"We have our military ready, willing and able if they ever want to call our military," Trump said. "We can have troops on the ground very quickly," he said. They have to be tough, strong and respected. "Because these people, this Antifa, there's a lot of radical left bad people, and they've got to be taught that you can't do this," he said.



May 30, 202016:42

In-town pool report #5 - protesters 
There is now a noisy crowd of protesters at 17th St. and Pennsylvania shouting "I can't breathe" and "Don't shoot," with whistles and drumsticks to add noise.
Secret Service and D.C. police have mobilized, they are carrying shields and have blocked off Lafayette Square.
In-town pool remained in the briefing room following departure. Service has not locked us in the briefing room, but reporters were asked to move away from the fence and near the stakeout camera location.



May 30, 202020:27

In-town pool report #6 
Arrival:
Marine One was wheels down at 8:22 p.m. on a beautiful balmy evening. Many car horns as well as police sirens can be heard related to the protest over George Floyd's death in Minneapolis.
POTUS waved several times to the media but did not stop to take questions. He walked through the Diplomatic Room doors at 8:25 p.m.
Protesters have moved from 17th and Pennsylvania to the edge of Lafayette Square along H St. Secret Service, D.C. police and other law enforcement are stationed throughout the park and areas around the White House.



May 30, 202020:50

In-town pool report #7 - lid 
A travel/photo lid was declared. Stay safe out there everyone.




 
Pool Reports below by Gabby Orr, POLITICO



Sent:
Reports:




May 30, 202012:59

Travel Pool Report No. 1 — JBA 
Good afternoon from Andrews. It is sunny and 75°. I'll be your pooler for the president's second trip this week to Cape Canaveral to hopefully view the launch of the SpaceX Crew Dragon mission. Reports on the ground indicate a 50-50 chance the launch will happen today, due to a stormy forecast.
Marine One touched down at 12:53 p.m. POTUS boarded AF1 solo after briefly speaking to pool about the rocket launch and protests last night. He said he was grateful for Secret Service who "handled the Antifa or the radical left incredibly" outside the White House. He also said there's a 50-50 chance the SpaceX launch doesn't happen today.
We are wheels up shortly.



May 30, 202014:47

Travel Pool Report No. 2 — Arrival in FL 
AF1 landed at 2:36 p.m. after an uneventful 2-hour flight. It is hot and humid, but it is not raining here in Cape Canaveral, where the SpaceX Crew Dragon capsule is currently scheduled to launch at 3:22 p.m. Local reports now put the chance of a launch at 70 percent.
POTUS deplaned at 2:45 p.m. and was followed off the plane by Reps. McCarthy and Gaetz.
TVs in the press cabin were tuned to Fox News on the flight down, where anchors focused on both the rocket launch and nationwide protests over the death of George Floyd. Unlike Wednesday, when POTUS first traveled to Florida for the since-rescheduled launch, the plane did not circle over the cape to provide those of us aboard with a view of the launch site.
Motorcade is rolling to the Kennedy Space Center at 2:45 p.m.



May 30, 202014:56

Travel Pool Report No. 3 — Arrival 
Motorcade pulled into the Kennedy Space Center at 2:54 p.m. Pool was quickly escorted to the roof of Operations Support Building II and did not see POTUS upon arrival.
We are approximately 2 miles away from the launch site, but currently have a clear view of the rocket.
Per the White House, POTUS was greeted on tarmac earlier by:Administrator Jim BridenstineNational Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA)Director Bob CabanaDirector of the Kennedy Space Center



May 30, 202015:11

Travel Pool Report No. 4 — Scene & photos 
Pool is now holding on the roof of the OSB II. There is a radio broadcast of some kind being blasted out of speakers on the rooftop and we have been told we are operating on schedule. We are under 18 minutes from liftoff as I send this report.
Pool still does not have eyes on POTUS, though there is a stage on the rooftop that suggests he will join us shortly. Vice President Mike Pence was already on the ground here when we arrived.
Photos attached.



May 30, 202015:22

Travel Pool Report No. 5 — POTUS Arrives 
POTUS joined us on the rooftop at 3:14 p.m. as "Macho Man" by the Village People blasted overhead. He was joined by the VP and Second Lady Karen Pence.
The three of them stood on a platform and talked amongst themselves as the music continued to play at an extremely loud volume. We are inching closer to takeoff.



May 30, 202015:31

Travel Pool Report No. 6 — Takeoff & POTUS comments 
The SpaceX Crew Dragon Falcon 9 rocket launched at approx 3:24 p.m. The rooftop shook as the capsule lifted off and POTUS and several Cabinet officials watched in silence. Within seconds of the launch, Elton John's "Rocket Man" — a Trump rally classic — began to play over speakers.
POTUS spoke to us shortly after the launch and also took a few questions. He said he spoke with Elon Musk, who he called one of the "great brains." He also spoke with the two NASA astronauts prior to takeoff. Please check quotes against transcript.
"I'm so proud of the people, of NASA, public and private. When you see a sight like that, it's incredible. When you hear that sound — the roar — you can imagine how dangerous it is."
"They have a long way to go but that's a very dangerous part of it there."
At one point, Rep. McCarthy said "If it was legal for Elon to give us a ride, I'd go."
More from POTUS:
"They're going to the moon so they can go to Mars."
"I said, ‘Would you hear anything?' because we're a good distance away and then all of a sudden you hear that roar."
"I think this is such a great inspiration for our country. Our country is doing well... We suffered something that was terrible. It should have never happened — it should have never come out of China... That's one of the reasons why I wanted to be here today and I think any one of you would say that was an inspiration to see what we just saw."
More TK. From the White House:
The following individuals are expected to attend:
The White HousePresident Donald J. TrumpVice President Mike PenceSecond Lady Karen Pence
Trump AdministrationAdministrator Jim Bridenstine, National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA)



May 30, 202016:50

Travel Pool Report No. 7 — Command Center stop 
Motorcade arrived at Firing Room Four of the Kennedy Space Center at 4:41 p.m. POTUS was already inside and appeared to be congratulating NASA personnel.
Your pooler could not see POTUS or hear him, but thanks to our wonderful photographers, who had a far better vantage point, he was standing beside Elon Musk as he spoke.
Motorcade is rolling at 4:49 p.m. to the location of POTUS' remarks.



May 30, 2020
[APP Note: Report #8 does not exist or was not received by the APP.]


May 30, 202017:15

Travel Pool No. 9 – Awaiting remarks from POTUS 
NOTE: The previous pool report was misidentified as pool report no. 7. It should have been no. 8. Your pooler apologizes.
Motorcade arrived the Vehicle Assembly Building on the Kennedy Space Center Campus at 4:55 p.m. A large crowd was seated inside the massive structure, where space vehicle components are assembled, when pool arrive on the scene. The chairs did not appear to be seated six feet apart and the crowd exceeded 50 people.
A model of the SpaceX Crew Dragon capsule and Apollo Lunar Module were placed behind the stage where Vice President Mike Pence and NASA Administrator Jim Bridenstine spoke, and where POTUS will soon deliver remarks. Elon Musk sat in the front row and jumped up and down several times when the VP thanked him for his work on SpaceX. Pence briefly discussed the death of George Floyd, too. Quotes below.
"Millions of Americans today will find the same inspiration and unity of purpose that we found in those days in the 1960s. In America, every life matters and there's no tolerance for racism or violence in the streets... We will honor the life of George Floyd. We will have law and order in our streets and we will heal our land. And we will prove again that even in the most challenging times, Americans rise aboce. We always move forward."
Remarks by VP and POTUS are open press and televised, but your pooler will share additional color from the scene here.



May 30, 202017:26

Travel Pool Report No. 10 – POTUS comments on George Floyd, protests 
POTUS took the stage at 5:16 p.m. as Lee Greenwood's "God Bless the USA" played in the Vehicle Assembly Building. He began his remarks with comments about George Floyd and the protests that have erupted across the country. Please check quotes against transcript.
"Before going further on this exciting day for all of America and space, I want to say a few words about the situation in Minnesota. The death of George Floyd in the streets of Minneapolis wass a grave tragedy. It should never have happened. It has filled Americans all over the country with horror, anger and grief."
"Yesterday, I spoke to George's family and expressed the sorrow of our entire nation for their loss. I stand before you as a friend and ally to every American seeking justice and peace, and I stand before you in firm opposition to anyone exploiting this tragedy to loot, rob, and menace. Healing not hatred, justice not chaos are the mission at hand."
"I undersand the pain that people are feeling. We support the right of peaceful protests and we hear their pleas, but what we are now seeing on the streets of our cities has nothing to do with the memory of George Floyd. The violence and vandalism is being led by antifa and other radical left-wing groups who are terrorizing the innocent, destroying jobs, hurting businesses and burning down buildings."
"The main victims of this horrible, horrible situation are the citizens who live in these once-lovely communities... The mobs are devastating the life's work of good people and destroying their dreams. We support the overwheming majority of police officers who are incredible in every way and devoted to public service."
"No one more upset than fellow law enformcent officers by the small handful who failed to abide by their oath and protect."
POTUS is now speaking about today's SpaceX launch.



May 30, 202017:43

Travel Pool Report No. 11 – Astronauts are safely in low-Earth orbit 
Following his remarks about George Floyd, POTUS announced that the two NASA astronauts inside the Crew Dragon capsule were "safe and sound" after successfully reaching low-Earth orbit.
"We wish them Godspeed on their journey and as one proud nation, we salute their fearless service."
Weaving comments about the global coronavirus outbreak into his remarks, POTUS said today's successful launch proved the United States is equipped to "conquere this disease on earth."
"As you know, this spring our nation has endured the pain and hardship of a global pandemic. As we usher in a new era in space exploartion, we are reminded that America is always in the process of transcending great challenges... The same spirit of American determination that sends our spirit into space will conquer this disease on earth. Nothing – not even gravity itself – can hold Americans down or keep America back."
POTUS also recognized SpaceX chief executive Elon Musk. "He could have spent his fortune yachting," POTUS said, thanking Musk for his involvement in space exploration. Musk stood up and gave a small bow to the crowd.



May 30, 202017:53

Travel Pool Report No. 12 – Motorcade rolling 
POTUS finished speaking at 5:48 p.m. He promised "we are on the verge of our most exciting years and next year might be the most exciting."
"We are a nation of pioneers. We are the people who crossed the ocean, carved out a foothold on a vast continent, settled a great wilderness and then set our eyes upon the stars. Now, like our ancestors before us, we are venturing out to explore a new and magnificent frontier. It's called space."
Pool did not see POTUS exit the building or join the motorcade. We are rolling toward the airport at 5:53 p.m.



May 30, 202018:06

Travel Pool Report No. 13 — Leaving FL 
Motorcade arrived on the tarmac at 6:01 p.m. Pool did not see POTUS board AF1. We are taxing down the runway at 6:07 p.m. en route back to JBA.
The White House passed along this list of guests who attended the president's remarks earlier:Today, President Donald J. Trump will deliver remarks from the Vehicle Assembly Building (VAB) at the Kennedy Space Center, Cape Canaveral, Florida.The following individuals are expected to attend:The White HousePresident Donald J. TrumpVice President Mike PenceSecond Lady Karen PenceDirector Kelvin Droegemeier, Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy
Trump AdministrationSecretary Wilbur Ross, Department of CommerceSecretary Dan Brouillette, Department of EnergySecretary Betsy DeVos, Department of EducationActing Secretary Chad Wolf, Department of Homeland SecurityDirector John Ratcliffe, Office of the Director of National IntelligenceSecretary Barbara Barrett, Secretary of the Air ForceGen Mark Milley, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of StaffGen David Goldfein, Chief of Staff of the Air ForceGen Jay Raymond, Commander of the United States Space CommandAdministrator Jim Bridenstine, National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA)Director Bob Cabana, Director of the Kennedy Space Center
Florida Elected OfficialsGovernor Ron DeSantisLieutenant Governor Jeanette NunezAttorney General Ashley MoodyChief Financial Officer Jimmy Patronis
Members of CongressSenator Rick Scott, United States Senator from FloridaRepresentative Kevin McCarthy, House Minority Leader and United States Representative from California's 23rd Congressional DistrictRepresentative Gus Bilirakis, United States Representative from Florida's 12th Congressional DistrictRepresentative Bill Posey, United States Representative from Florida's 8th Congressional DistrictRepresentative Ted Deutch, United States Representative from Florida's 22nd Congressional DistrictRepresentative Bill Flores, United States Representative from Texas's 17th Congressional DistrictRepresentative Daniel Webster, United States Representative from Florida's 11th Congressional DistrictRepresentative Rodney Davis, United States Representative from Illinois's 13th CongressionalRepresentative Brian Babin, United States Representative from Texas's 36th Congressional DistrictRepresentative Elise Stefanik, United States Representative from New York's 21st Congressional DistrictRepresentative Charlie Crist, United States Representative from Florida's 13th Congressional DistrictRepresentative Brian Fitzpatrick, United States Representative from Pennsylvania's 1st Congressional DistrictRepresentative Matt Gaetz, United States Representative from Florida's 1st Congressional DistrictRepresentative Roger Marshall, United States Representative from Kansas's 1st Congressional DistrictRepresentative Brian Mast, United States Representative from Florida's 18th Congressional DistrictRepresentative John Rutherford, United States Representative from Florida's 4th Congressional DistrictRepresentative Darren Soto, United States Representative from Florida's 9th Congressional DistrictRepresentative Kendra Horn, United States Representative from Oklahoma's 5th Congressional DistrictRepresentative Michael Waltz, United States Representative from Florida's 6th Congressional District
External ParticipantsElon Musk, Founder & Chief Executive Officer & Lead Designer, SpaceX



May 30, 202019:55

Travel Pool Report No. 14 — G7 news 
AF1 touched down at JBA at 7:54 p.m. POTUS came back to the press cabin to chat off the record for several minutes toward the end of the flight.
He made some news — which he permitted us to use on the record — about the G7. He is postponing it until September and plans to invite Russia, South Korea, Australia and India.
"I don't feel that as a G7 it properly represents what's going on in the world. It's a very outdated group of countries," he said.
Alyssa Farah said this is bringing together our traditional allies to talk about how to deal with the future of China.



May 30, 202021:01

Addendum to Travel Pool Report No. 14 
Your pooler has received some questions about the timing of the G7 summit following the announcement by POTUS that he plans to postpone it. I've added some additional quotes and information below that I initially thought was off the record, but has since been shared by the wires.
POTUS first said he was postponing the G7 until September and wanted to add the aforementioned four countries as participants.
"We want Australia, we want India, we want South Korea. And what do we have? That's a nice group of countries right there," he said, not mentioning Russia.
He later described it as the "G-10 or G-11" said she's "roughly" broached the idea with the leaders of the four countries he'd like to add.
At another point during the conversation, he said: "Maybe I'll do it after the election. I think a good time would be before the election."
He then said the summit could take place the weekend before or after the UN General Assembly, which is currently scheduled to begin Sept. 15.
Lastly, he said: "So it might be a G10, G11, and it could be after the election is over..."



May 30, 202020:13

Travel Pool Report No. 15 — Back to the WH 
POTUS disembarked AF1 at 8:06 p.m. with Leader McCarthy. He walked to Marine One alone after a brief smile and wave toward the pool and was wheels up for the White House at 8:12 p.m.
Signing off on this historic day for America. Have a safe evening everyone.




  