
    The following releases of the Office of the White House Press Secretary, distributed during the period covered by this issue, are not included in the issue.
Released May 7, 1977
News conference: on the President's meeting with Chancellor Helmut Schmidt of the Federal Republic of Germany, at Winfield House, London, England--by Dr. Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs (held at Winfield House)
News conference: on the first session of the international economic summit meeting-by Secretary of the Treasury W. Michael Blumenthal (held at the Churchill Hotel)
News conference: on the second session of the international economic summit meeting-by Secretary of the Treasury W. Michael Blumenthal (held at the Churchill Hotel)
Released May 8, 1977
News conference: on the President's meeting with Prime Minister Giulio Andreotti of Italy, at Winfield House, London, England-by Assistant Secretary of State for European Affairs Arthur Hartman (held at Winfield House)
Released May 9, 1977
News conference: on the President's meeting with President Hafiz al-Asad of Syria, at the Intercontinental Hotel, Geneva, Switzerland-by Dr. Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs (held at the Intercontinental Hotel)
Released May 11, 1977
Pool report: on a question-and-answer session with reporters on the President's meetings in London and Geneva--by Dr. Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs (held on Air Force One on return from London to Washington)
Released May 13, 1977
Biographical data: Jamie C. Boyd, the President's nominee to be U.S. Attorney for the Western District of Texas; Andrew W. Danielson, the President's nominee to be U.S. Attorney for the District of Minnesota; James R. Britton, the President's nominee to be U.S. Attorney for the District of North Dakota; John C. Merkel, Jr., the President's nominee to be U.S. Attorney for the Western District of Washington; Albert S. Hinds, the President's nominee to be U.S. Marshal for the Eastern District of Illinois; Rodolfo A. Garza, the President's nominee to be U.S. Marshal for the Western District of Texas; and Harold C. Warren, the President's nominee to be U.S. Marshal for the District of North Dakota.
  