
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate eight individuals, appoint twelve individuals and designate nine individuals to serve in his Administration:
The President intends to nominate Ravic R. Huso, of Hawaii, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Lao People's Democratic Republic. Mr. Huso, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, currently serves as Political Advisor to the Commander of the United States Pacific Command. Prior to this, he served as Deputy Chief of Mission in Bangkok. Earlier in his career, he served as Senior Director of the National Security Council. Mr. Huso received his bachelor's degree from the College of Idaho and his master's degree from the University of Virginia.
The President intends to nominate Howard Radzely, of Maryland, to be Deputy Secretary of Labor and appoint him to serve as a Labor Representative on the Congressional-Executive Commission on the People's Republic of China. Mr. Radzely currently serves as Acting Deputy Secretary of Labor and as Solicitor of Labor. Prior to this, he served as Deputy Solicitor at the Department of Labor. Earlier in his career, he worked at Wiley, Rein & Fielding concentrating in labor and employment law. Mr. Radzely received his bachelor's degree from the University of Pennsylvania and his JD from Harvard University Law School.
The President intends to nominate Ned L. Siegel, of Florida, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Commonwealth of the Bahamas. Mr. Siegel currently serves as Chairman and President of The Siegel Group. Mr. Siegel also serves as a Member of the Board of Directors of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation and as a Public Delegate of the U.S. Mission to the 61st United Nations General Assembly. Prior to this, he served as President of SGS Communities in Florida. Mr. Siegel received his bachelor's degree from the University of Connecticut and his JD from Dickinson School of Law, Penn State University.
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the Board of Directors of the Valles Caldera Trust:
Stephen E. Henry, of New Mexico (Management of Game and Nongame Wildlife), for a four-year term expiring 01/16/11 James D. Range, of Tennessee (Nonprofit Conservation Organization), for a four-year term expiring 01/16/11 Edward R. Tinsley, III, of New Mexico (Financial Management), for a four-year term expiring 01/16/11
The President intends to designate the following individuals to be Delegates of the United States to the Sixtieth World Health Assembly of the World Health Organization:
Michael O. Leavitt, of Utah, to be Chief Delegate William Raymond Steiger, of Wisconsin Warren W. Tichenor, of Texas
The President intends to designate the following individuals to be Alternate Delegates of the United States to the Sixtieth World Health Assembly of the World Health Organization:
John O. Agwunobi, of Florida Ann S. Blackwood, of Virginia Julie L. Gerberding, of South Dakota David E. Hohman, of Virginia Michael W. Miller, of the District of Columbia Mary Lou Valdez, of Maryland
The President intends to nominate Robert Lance Boldrey, of Michigan, to be a Member of the Board of Trustees of the Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation, for an additional six-year term expiring 05/26/13.
The President intends to appoint Barbara Bruin, of New Mexico, to be a Member of the Federal Service Impasses Panel, for the remainder of a five-year term expiring 01/10/09.
The President intends to nominate the following individuals to be Members of the United States Advisory Commission on Public Diplomacy, for the remainder of three-year terms expiring 07/01/09:
John E. Osborn, of Delaware Lezlee J. Westine, of Virginia
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the United States Commission on International Religious Freedom:
Michael Lewis Cromartie, of Virginia, for an additional two-year term expiring 05/14/08 Talal Eid, of Massachusetts, for a two-year term expiring 05/14/09 Leonard A. Leo, of Virginia, for the remainder of a two-year term expiring 05/14/08
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission:
Brad T. Barber, of Utah (Environmental Representative Representing the Governor of Utah), for the remainder of a four-year term expiring 07/10/10 Don A. Christiansen, of Utah (Representing the Central Utah Water Conservancy District), for the remainder of a four-year term expiring 11/20/08 James F. Karpowitz, of Utah (State Wildlife Agency Representative Representing the Governor of Utah), for the remainder of a four-year term expiring 11/06/09 Dallin Willard Jensen, of Utah (Representing the Speaker of the House of Representatives), for the remainder of a four-year term expiring 07/18/10
The President intends to nominate the following individuals to be Directors of the Board of Directors of the Securities Investor Protection Corporation (Securities Industry):
William S. Jasien, of Virginia, for the remainder of a three-year term expiring 12/31/09 Mark S. Shelton, of Kansas, for the remainder of a three-year term expiring 12/31/08
  