
    U.S. Senator Daniel Akaka Endorses Barack Obama
The Senator from Hawaii Cites Obama's Ability to Unite Americans Around Common Interests
Chicago, IL - Today, U.S. Senator Daniel Akaka from Hawaii endorsed Barack Obama for President. Akaka is the 280th superdelegate to endorse Obama, who is now 151 delegates away from securing the Democratic nomination.
Senator Akaka's Statement is below:
"For more than a year, people have asked me who I plan to endorse for President of the United States. I've waited this long for several reasons. The Democratic campaign began with more than ten declared candidates. As a veteran of more than 30 years on Capitol Hill, I knew each and everyone of them and had worked closely with all. I had no doubt that each of them had the knowledge and ability to lead our country out of the financial and diplomatic chaos that we've experienced for the past eight years.
Having waged a number of campaigns myself, I can tell you they are not easy. Campaigns are tests, and there's no tougher one than running for President. Like many Americans, I've followed the campaign for President closely and with growing interest, eager to see which candidate would articulate a vision for our country, encourage hope and renew faith in our government, and stand to the rigors of a nationwide contest.
After giving it a lot of thought, I've decided that for me, that candidate is Barack Obama.
Rather than echo his supporters or review his platform on health care, the environment, or the war in Iraq, I want to add a different voice to those who believe Senator Obama would make a fine President. He is the antidote we need to cure Washington of the uninspired, partisan politics that has plagued our country far too long.
What makes him uniquely qualified? A March 2008 feature in Vanity Fair magazine offers a clue: "He was born and came of age in Hawaii, the 50th state and in many ways among the freest 'thinking, where mixed' race ancestry is …a given... If Obama comes across as a bit of a softy—if you don't see the toughness or the ambition at first—it may be in part because he spent his formative years in a place where 'Live Aloha' had not yet become a slogan aimed at recapturing a more gracious time, but was simply a way of life."
I have great hope, that in his own way, Barack Obama will achieve what I have been working to accomplish my entire Congressional career, more tolerance and understanding, an appreciation for common goals and interests, rather than an emphasis on our differences.
While I am pledging my support to Senator Obama, I want to make it very clear that I hold both Senator Hillary Clinton and President Bill Clinton in the highest regard as colleagues and friends. Senator Clinton has campaigned hard and well and I wish her all the best as we move forward. In an example of her leadership and commitment, Senator Clinton has promised that come November, the Democratic Party will be united behind our presidential nominee and I send her my fondest aloha for her courage and selflessness."
Hawaii Superdelegate Dolly Strazar Endorses Barack Obama
Chicago, IL - Today, Hawaii Superdelegate Dolly Strazar endorsed Barack Obama for President. Strazar is the 279th superdelegate to endorse Obama. Obama is 152 delegates away from securing the Democratic nomination.
"As a Democratic National Committeewoman, I have felt it my duty to let this unique presidential campaign process play out, one that has reached across the country and engaged millions of Americans in expressing their preference for a Democratic nominee before expressing my preference as a superdelegate. I am now convinced that it is time to pull together behind a single candidate who has the backing of a growing number of Americans . I therefore announce my wholehearted endorsement of Senator Barack Obama.
I have had and still do have the utmost respect for Senator Hillary Clinton and the positive and uplifting force that both of the Clintons have been in Hawaii. It excites me, however, to enter active campaigning for a son of Hawaii who learned the lessons of "getting along" that so dominate the values of the people of the fiftieth state. I am convinced that these values of inclusiveness and respect for differences that we take for granted in Hawaii are part of what has made our America a nation based on freedom, equality, justice and the pursuit of happiness. I further believe that these values will serve to unify our country and lead us to victory in November.
The will of Democrats in Hawaii was expressed loudly and clearly in February and I am proud to see that that same vision has been reflected throughout the country in Democratic support for Senator Obama."
Dr. Marie Dolly Strazar is a member of the Hawaii Democratic Party.
##############
Idaho Superdelegate Keith Roark Endorses Barack Obama
Idaho Democratic Party Chairman Cites Obama's Ability to Help Rebuild the Party in the West
Chicago, IL - Today, Idaho Superdelegate Keith Roark endorsed Barack Obama for President. Roark is the 281st superdelegate to endorse Obama, who is 150 delegates away from securing the Democratic nomination.
"After several months of careful consideration, I am announcing today that I will cast my vote this August at the Democratic National Convention for the next President of the United States, Senator Barrack Obama. I have not come quickly or easily to this decision. Democrats are blessed to have two outstanding candidates vying for our party's nomination at this defining moment in American history.
I have no doubt that Senator Obama will run the stronger race. The unprecedented enthusiasm Senator Obama has generated here in Idaho is unlike anything I have seen in the past 31 years of active political participation in this State. He has captured the imagination and mint fresh optimism of young voters from Couer d'Alene to Caldwell, from Murphy to Montpelier. I firmly believe that the critical process of rebuilding the Idaho Democratic Party will receive a once in a lifetime boost from Senator Obama's candidacy."
Keith Roark is Chairman of the Idaho Democratic Party.
  