
    The following list contains releases of the Office of the Press Secretary that are neither printed as items nor covered by entries in the Digest of Other White House Announcements.
Released May 13
Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Mike McCurry
Released May 14
Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Mike McCurry
Transcript of a press briefing by Vice President Al Gore, Counselor to the President Mack McLarty, Deputy Attorney General Jamie Gorelick, Gen. John Tilelli, Major Gen. Bob Hicks, Deputy Secretary of Transportation Mort Downey, and Larry Haas, OMB Associate Director for Communications on the Olympic games in Atlanta, GA
Statement by Press Secretary Mike McCurry announcing notification to Congress of the release of $100 million for firefighting activities Statement by Press Secretary Mike McCurry on National Security Adviser Anthony Lake's mission to Burundi
Statement by Press Secretary Mike McCurry on the President's meeting with Bosnian Federation leaders and the announcement of a new business development mission to Bosnia and Croatia
Released May 15
Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Mike McCurry
Statement by Press Secretary Mike McCurry announcing appointments to the Presidential emergency board
Announcement of the nominations for U.S. District Judges for the Central District of California and the Northern District of Georgia
Released May 16
Transcript of a press briefing by Secretary of State Warren Christopher, Secretary of Defense William Perry, and U.N. Ambassador Madeleine Albright on the antipersonnel landmines initiative
Fact sheet announcing the antipersonnel landmine policy
Fact sheet on U.S. efforts to address the problem of antipersonnel landmines
Fact sheet on the U.S. demining program
Listing of participants in announcement of landmines policy
Statement by Chief of Staff Leon Panetta on budget legislation
Statement by Press Secretary Mike McCurry announcing OMB Director Alice Rivlin's letter to congressional leaders on the budget
Statement by Press Secretary Mike McCurry announcing budget amendments for additional funds for firefighting activities
Statement by Counsel to the President John M. Quinn announcing the President's annual Public Financial Disclosure Report
Announcement of the nomination for U.S. Attorney for the District of South Carolina
Released May 17
Statement by Press Secretary Mike McCurry on the Vice President's meeting with U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees Sadako Ogata on the situation in Liberia
Statement by Press Secretary Mike McCurry announcing budget amendments in support of the Israeli Government's requirement for counterterrorism assistance
  