
    The President today announced that Lynda Johnson Robb will chair the President's Advisory Committee for Women, and he announced that he will appoint four new members, who will join members who previously served on the National Advisory Committee for Women. Marjorie Bell Chambers and Elizabeth Koontz will serve as Vice-Chairs of the Committee.
The President today signed an Executive order which reestablishes the National Advisory Committee for Women as the President's Advisory Committee for Women. The order also limits the number of members on the Committee to 30, and extends its work to December 31, 1980.
The President's Advisory Committee for Women will work to carry out the President's mandate to promote equality for women in the cultural, social, economic, and political life of this country.
The President's choice of Lynda Johnson Robb to chair the Committee emphasizes the importance he places on women's right to choose freely among playing the role of wife and mother, combining work in the home with work outside, and pursuing a career outside the home.
Robb is a homemaker with three children, who is also actively involved in civic affairs and her business interests. The President feels that she can bring to the Committee greater understanding of the concerns of women who have chosen the role of homemaker, and that she can provide these women with greater perspective on the effects of women's issues on their lives.
Robb, 35, is a homemaker in McLean, Va., and the mother of three daughters aged 10, 8, and 10 months. She is a contributing editor to Ladies Home Journal, and was on the staff of McCall's magazine from 1966 to 1968. She is vice president of the L.B.J. Co. and of Northern Virginia Broadcasting, and is on the board of directors of station KLBJ in Texas. She is a director of the L.B.J. Family Foundation and serves on the National Advisory Board of Reading is Fundamental. She has worked actively for passage of the equal rights amendment in Virginia and attended the National Women's Conference in Houston. A 1966 graduate of the University of Texas, Robb is the daughter of former President Lyndon Baines Johnson, and the wife of Virginia Lieutenant Governor Charles S. Robb.
The four new members announced today, in addition to Robb, are:
LINDA J. LEE, an assistant on human resources issues to New York City Council President Carol Bellamy and president of the Council of Asian American Women;
ALICE McDONALD, executive assistant to the mayor of Louisville, Ky., and former director of the Neighborhood Development Office there;
ANN S. RAMSAY, director of the office of budgets of Harvard University, previously first deputy secretary of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts;
JILL L. SCHROPP, a Seattle real estate investor
and former journalist who was campaign manager for Citizens to Retain Fair Employment in Seattle.
Marjorie Bell Chambers, newly named Vice-Chair of the Committee, has served as Acting Chair since January. The President expressed his thanks to her for her outstanding work as Acting Chair. She is president of the American Association of University Women.
The other Vice-Chair, Libby Koontz, is assistant State superintendent of education for North Carolina and chair of the National Commission on Working Women.
  