
    Diverse Group of Community Leaders to Serve as Advisory Body
NEVADA -- Hillary Clinton's Nevada Chair Rory Reid today announced the formation of the Nevada African American Leadership Council, a group of African American community leaders from a wide range of personal and professional backgrounds, who are united in support of Hillary Clinton's bid for the presidency. Joining Reid for this morning's teleconference announcement were council representatives Dr. Robert Fowler and Hannah M. Brown.
"Senator Clinton has demonstrated a commitment to protecting civil rights and expanding opportunities for African Americans throughout her career," said Fowler. "She has the experience and vision to break down barriers between us and move our country in the right direction. I am thrilled to be a part of this Leadership Council, dedicated to making Hillary Clinton our next president."
"Hillary has always been an advocate for those without a voice in society," said Brown. "She has championed equal access to education, health care and home ownership - and fought discrimination in all its forms. I know that as President, she will be a leader who gives voice to all of our hopes for a better America."
The Council will serve as a steering committee and advisory body for the campaign on African American community issues and outreach efforts. The wide-ranging group of founding Council members includes educators, business leaders, public service veterans and community activists from across the state.
"The breadth of experience and depth of knowledge assembled in this group of leaders is very exciting for our campaign," said Reid. "Their endorsement is a tribute to Senator Clinton's record of achievement and vision for our country, and their support and expertise will bring immeasurable value to our efforts in Nevada."
The founding members of Hillary Clinton's Nevada African American Leadership Council, announced today, are:

Nedra Armstrong, member of the Deltas, Treasurer of Las Vegas Branch of the NAACP
Yolanda Arrington, advocate for children and community
Hannah Brown, Community activist
Anthony Cartwright, Housing Chair, NAAACP, Las Vegas branch; employed by US AIRWAYS; Board of the Detroit Connection Incorporated
Brenda Chaney, Community activist
Patricia Cunningham, Founder, Alliance for Social Justice
Evelyn Mount, Founder, Reno's Community Outreach; known for organizing holiday food drives
Dr. Robert Fowler, Pastor, Victory Missionary Baptist Church
Rekaya Gibson, EMERGE candidate and small business owner
Mildred Gilliard, Longtime Political activist in Ohio and Nevada politics
Rosemary Hall, Educator
Verlia Davis-Hoggard, Formerly of Clark County Social Services, community activist
Marsha Irvin, Education advocate
James Brown, Retired Business Owner, Retired Union Member UFCW
Jo Cato, President, Pulse Magazine
Kenneth Dalton, Reno firefighter, past president of Reno-Sparks NAACP; founded "Our Story" history project
Lavonne Lewis, Political activist
Carrie Lewis-Willis, National Coalition of 100 Black Women, local chapter
Lonnie Feemster, real estate broker and community activist
Lucille Adin - Current president, Reno-Sparks NAACP; past chair and current trustee, Washoe County Library Board
Dr. Ronan Matthew, Principal, Canyon Springs High School
Denyse McGuinn, Retired Army Officer
Mujahid Ramadan, Community Activist and mentor, Coalition of 100 Black Men
Sumayah Ramadan, Executive, Treasure Island Hotel and Casino
Dr. SS Rogers, Pastor, The Greater Mt. Sinai Missionary Recruiting Ministries
Cordell Stokes, Founding Member of the Caucus of African American Nevadans (CAAN) and former president and spokeman for CAAN; Political Advisor to Gubernatorial Candidate and the Nevada State Democratic Party
Genie Stokes, Community Activist
Pastor Ronald Thomas, Pastor, Reconciliation Apostolic Ministry
Dr. Porter Troutman, Professor, College of Education at UNLV focusing on diversity and multicultural education; Founder of the National Association for Multicultural Education
Elizabeth Valentine, Political activist
Donna Watson, Political activist
Reverend Ralph E. Williamson, Pastor, First African Methodist Episcopal Church
Jeff Wilson, doctoral student, UNLV
Dr. Linda Young, Education activist

  