
    Today, civil rights activist and American labor leader Dolores Huerta endorsed Joe Biden for President of the United States and released the following statement:
"Joe Biden has been an ally to labor his entire career — consistently standing shoulder to shoulder with workers. On issues from campaign finance reform to climate change to systemic racism to organized labor to marriage equality, Biden has never been afraid to be one of the first voices speaking out for what he believes is right.
"Not only has he been a staunch advocate for labor, Joe has made the Latino community a priority. At a time when the current White House has used fear mongering and racist rhetoric towards Latinos, Joe has made it clear that he will fight to protect and advance our community. In the midst of the current COVID-19 pandemic, he has honed in on the importance of keeping our essential workers healthy and safe by establishing and enforcing strong safety standards and providing them with personal protective equipment and testing, in addition to providing paid sick leave for all workers. This November, our country will be at a crossroads — supporting Joe Biden is crucial to the success of our families, our workers, and our country."
Dolores Huerta is a labor and civil rights icon who served as the co-founder of the National Farmworkers Association, now United Farm Workers (UFW), alongside Cesar Chavez. In 1993, Dolores became the first Latina inducted into the National Women's Hall of Fame. She also has received countless awards and recognition for her advocacy efforts. In May of 2012, Dolores received the Presidential Medal of Freedom from President Barack Obama.
Nationally, Biden for President has previously announced more than 2,500 endorsements from national, state, and local leaders, including current and former U.S. senators and representatives, governors, state elected officials, community leaders, and national security professionals. National unions representing a range of other workers and professions have also endorsed Biden, including the International Association of Firefighters (IAFF), United Auto Workers (UAW), International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers (IBEW), National Education Association (NEA), United Food and Commercial Workers (UFCW), American Federation of Teachers (AFT), American Federation of State, County, and Municipal Employees (AFSCME), International Association of Bridge, Structural and Ornamental Iron Workers (IW), Amalgamated Transit Union (ATU), Operative Plasterers' & Cement Masons' International Association (OPCMIA), and International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers (IAM), and the International Longshoremen's Association (ILA).
  