
    Pool Reports by Christian Datoc, Washington Examiner 



Sent:
Reports:




May 5, 2023 10:07

In-town pool report #1 — checking in
Good morning from the White House where it's a crisp 59 degrees this Friday (Cinco de Mayo).
The president received the PDB earlier this morning and will convene an Investing in America Cabinet meeting at 11:55am, but otherwise, today's slate is wide open, with no briefing currently on the schedule
EDT
9:00 AM THE PRESIDENT receives the Presidential Daily Briefing  Closed Press
10:00 AM In-Town Pool Call Time 
11:45 AM THE PRESIDENT meets with his Investing in America Cabinet; THE VICE PRESIDENT attends Roosevelt Room In-House Pool Spray (Gather 11:35 AM — Brady Press Briefing Room Doors)
As always, feel free to reach out to me directly with any questions. 


May 5, 2023 11:53

In-town pool report #2 — gathering for Roosevelt Room event
Pool gathered at 11:53am for Biden's Invest in America Cabinet meeting in the Roosevelt Room.
Tktktk 


May 5, 2023 12:23

In-town pool report #3 — event begins
Pool entered the Roosevelt Room at 12:11pm, and the event began at 12:12pm.
Quotes to follow… event is ongoing 


May 5, 2023 12:26

In-town pool report #4 — meeting topper/POTUS says he'll have a press conference this afternoon
Biden, sitting below a portrait of Teddy Roosevelt, opened the meeting by claiming the cabinet has been "working straight through," since the last meeting, on "growing the economy from the bottom up and the middle out."
POTUS noted the "good news" in Friday's jobs report, including 3.4% unemployment and the highest labor force participation rate in 15 years.
"We obviously have more work to do but we're trending in the right direction."
Biden says his economic progress comes from "investing in America"
"We're making real progress… we're finally bringing back the supply chain to the United States"
"Our MAGA Republicans in Congress are threatening to undo all this progress"
Biden says spending and the debt limit "are two separate issues. Let's get it straight. They're "holding the debt hostage to" some "draconian cuts"
"Their budget would put 21 million people at risk of losing Medicaid. It would cut law enforcement by 28,000 personnel… it would cut 30 million veterans health care visits"
"We're not a debt beat nation. We pay our bills"
"Next week I'm going to reiterate to Congressional leaders they should… pass the debt limit. Avoid default"
Biden added that he's open to "normal" spending negotiations but not when it risks default
"Debate the vision and whether or not we'll take the country backward, but certainly not that we'll default on our debt"
"I understand the Republican position… but should have the debate in the open" not shrouded by the debt debate
OF NOTE: POTUS closed by stating the he'll have a "major press conference this afternoon" — staff did not answer questions about Biden's remarks.
POTUS briefly addressed a question on Russia and potential AI threats… said he would talk about Russia but not now
On AI: "there are dangers but we'll get a chance to talk talk about that. I promise you"
Stand by for full quotes 


May 5, 2023 12:28

In-town pool report #5 — gathering for OTR movement
As of 12:26pm
More tktktk 


May 5, 2023 12:28

In-town pool report #6 — meeting attendees
Passing along from WH
The President is meeting with his Investing in America Cabinet to discuss how his Investing in America agenda is unleashing private sector investments, revitalizing American manufacturing, creating good-paying jobs and rebuilding the economy from the middle out and the bottom up.
In-Person Attendees: The Vice President Secretary Janet Yellen, Department of the Treasury Secretary Gina Raimondo, Department of Commerce Acting Secretary Julie Su, Department of Labor Secretary Xavier Becerra, Department of Health and Human Services Secretary Pete Buttigieg, Department of Transportation Director Shalanda Young, Office of Management and Budget Jeff Zients, Assistant to the President & Chief of Staff Natalie Quillian, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff Anita Dunn, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President Susan Rice, Assistant to the President & Director of the Domestic Policy Council Evan Ryan, Assistant to the President & Cabinet Secretary Ali Zaidi, Assistant to the President & National Climate Advisor Lael Brainard, Assistant to the President & Director of the National Economic Council John Podesta, Senior Advisor to the President for Clean Energy Innovation Gene Sperling, Senior Advisor to the President & American Rescue Plan Coordinator Lisa Hansmann, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the Deputy Chief of Staff Dan Koh, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Cabinet Secretary
Virtual Attendees: Secretary Deb Haaland, Department of the Interior Secretary Jennifer Granholm, Department of Energy Secretary Miguel Cardona, Department of Education Mitch Landrieu, Senior Advisor & Infrastructure Implementation Coordinator 


May 5, 2023 12:35

In-town pool report #7 — rolling
Motorcade departed WH at 12:35pm, destination unknown.
Pool did not see POTUS enter the Beast.
Tktktk 


May 5, 2023 12:49

In-town pool report #8 — arrival
Motorcade arrived at the Bryant Street NE shopping center at 12:48pm. end destination still unknown. Pool is out of the vans and moving. More to come.
Some color: A large contingent of tourists and/or onlookers filmed and waved at the motorcade as is drove through DC. One of our eagle eyes still reporters caught one sign holding a "Free the Jan 6 Protesters" sign 


May 5, 2023 12:53

In-town pool report #9 — Taqueria Habanero
POTUS and VP entered the food court at 12:52pm and waved to the cheering crowd. "We love you Biden! We love you Joe!"
POTUS is currently ordering tktktk 


May 5, 2023 13:01

In-town pool report #10 — more color
Both POTUS and VP are visited with with TH staff and posed for photos behind the register and in the kitchen before collecting their order. Biden waved to the crowd and held up the to-go bag when asked what the order was (pool has asked staff for an exact breakdown).
POTUS and VP exchanged pleasantries with other customers and onlookers until ___. Pool was too far away to catch any of their words but POTUS engaged at least 2 young children and their parents.
Pool moved back to motorcade at 1:00pm, and Biden was still visiting with the crowd.
Tktktk 


May 5, 2023 13:06

In-town pool report #11 — rolling back
Pool reloaded at 1:04pm and motorcade is Oscar Mike as of 1:05pm
Tktktk 


May 5, 2023 13:15

In-town pool report #12 — order
Passing along from WH
Chicken quesadilla
Churros
And an assortment of tacos for White House staff 


May 5, 2023 13:19

In-town pool report #13 — back on campus
Motorcade pulled back onto the WH grounds at 1:16pm. Pool spotted POTUS and VP exit the motorcade and walk back toward the Oval Office at 1:18pm, which Biden entered but Harris did not. Pool now heading back toward the briefing room--


May 5, 2023 14:23

In-town pool report #14 — LID
... called at 2:21pm.
Happy Cinco de Mayo, y'all. Enjoy the sun and margaritas 



  