
    Daschle: Obama will stop sending billions to Iraq, start investing American economy
Sioux Falls, SD - Senator Barack Obama's South Dakota campaign today begins airing a new radio ad featuring former South Dakota Senator and U.S. Senate Majority Leader Tom Daschle. In the ad, Daschle - who was one of Obama's earliest public supporters - asks South Dakotans to join him in backing the candidate who will "put you first - not the special interests."
"When milk and gas are both pushing 4 dollars a gallon, and jobs are hard to find, it's time for a president who will change things," Daschle says in the ad - entitled "Rebuild South Dakota."
Daschle also discusses Obama's background as a community organizer who worked in the churches to help those who lost their jobs when the steel plants closed, and adds, "it's no surprise Barack's plan invests in our economy. He'll stop sending billions to Iraq and end this war. And he'll end tax breaks for companies that ship jobs overseas."
To listen to the ad, click HERE.
SCRIPT - "Rebuild South Dakota"

  Hi, this is Tom Daschle. You know, when milk and gas are both pushing 4 dollars a gallon, and jobs are hard to find, it's time for a president who will change things -- start rebuilding America. That's why I'm for Barack Obama.
He didn't grow up with money… He was raised by a single mom and his grandparents, and worked hard to get by.
A Christian, Barack's first job was with churches helping those left behind when steel plants closed… passing up big jobs on Wall Street.
So it's no surprise Barack's plan invests in our economy. He'll stop sending billions to Iraq and end this war. And he'll end tax breaks for companies that ship jobs overseas. He'll invest in alternative energy that helps states like South Dakota, so that we're not held hostage to foreign oil.
This is Tom Daschle. If you're ready for a president who'll put you first - not the special interests - and finally bring America together, vote for Barack Obama. He's change we can believe in.

  