
    Campaign Unveils New Website, www.supportthetroopsendthewar.com
Calls on the American people to reclaim patriotism over Memorial Day weekend by supporting our troops and ending the war
Henniker, New Hampshire – During his commencement address at New England College, Senator John Edwards today called on the American people to honor our troops by speaking out and taking action this Memorial Day weekend to end the war in Iraq. Edwards urged Americans to call on our government to support our troops in the most important way it can - by ending this war and bringing them home. Excerpts of Edwards' remarks are included below.
Edwards believes that we must reclaim what patriotism means - the best way to support our troops is not doing whatever President Bush says to prolong the war, but rather ending the war and bringing our troops home to a hero's welcome. This Memorial Day weekend, Edwards is encouraging every American to take responsibility for our country and the men and women who protect it by taking action - whether volunteering, praying or speaking out - to support the troops and end the war.
Edwards launched a new website today, www.supportthetroopsendthewar.com which lays out ten action items Americans can take to support our troops. The website includes a video message from Edwards, allows people to search the website to find activities going on in their communities, and encourages people to come up with their own ideas on how to support our troops and end the war. Activities include sending care packages to troops serving overseas, organizing a prayer vigil, holding public gatherings in support of the troops and ending the war, and contacting local representatives in Congress.
Excerpts of Edwards' Remarks as Prepared for Delivery at New England College:
"As I have said repeatedly, Congress' only real power to end this war is to use its funding power to force an end.
"But while that's Congress' only real power - it's not the only power in America.
"The irresistible power of America lies in your hands, in the hands of the American people.
"Each of us has a responsibility as Americans, a duty to our troops and to each other, to do all we can to support the troops and end this war. This Memorial Day weekend, that means more than just getting in your car, driving to the beach, or a parade, or a picnic and saying the words, "We support our troops."
"We must take responsibility and take action together - as citizens, as Americans, as patriots. To support the troops. To end the war.
"As citizens, we honor and support our troops for their service and sacrifice.
"As Americans, we are blessed by that sacrifice and support, which keeps us safe and keeps us strong.
"And as patriots, we call on our government to support our troops in the most important way it can - by ending this war and bringing them home.
"So today, I am calling on Americans to raise their voices this Memorial Day weekend in honor of all the brave men and women who have served in Iraq and all who have ever served America in uniform.
"If you and Americans across the country rise up and demand an end to this war, Congress will find the courage, and the president will find he has no choice.
"Support the troops. End the war.
"On this Memorial Day weekend, let us all take responsibility for the country we love and the brave men and women who protect it.
"As citizens, let us volunteer in support of our troops, to offer our service in honor of theirs.
"As Americans, let us take a moment to join in prayer for our troops in thanks for their sacrifice.
"And during this weekend, let us gather as patriots. Wherever you are - with your family, with your friends, at a barbeque, at a parade - wherever you are, let us raise our voices and say together:
"We are citizens. We are Americans. We are patriots.
"We support our troops. End the war. Bring them home."
  