
    Pool Reports by Linda Feldmann, The Christian Science Monitor



Sent:
Reports:




May 2, 202012:46

In-town pool report #1: travel/photo lid
A travel/photo lid was called at 12:31 pm.
POTUS, as you know, is at Camp David. I reached out to the press office this morning, and asked for more detail on who he's with and what else he might be doing besides having meetings and foreign leader phone calls, as he told us yesterday on his way to Marine One. Will onpass if I learn anything.
CNN has reported that he's with a small group of aides, including chief of staff Mark Meadows and first daughter Ivanka Trump.
Enjoy this beautiful, sunny Saturday!



May 2, 202013:02

In-town pool report #2: call w/Bolivian interim president 
>From the press office:
Today, President Donald J. Trump spoke with Interim President Jeanine Áñez of Bolivia to discuss ways the two governments can work together in response to the coronavirus pandemic. President Trump offered to provide assistance to help the Transitional Government of Bolivia in its efforts to care for its citizens. President Trump also expressed support for Interim President Áñez's implementation of much-needed economic assistance measures, commended her strong leadership, and reiterated United States support for a peaceful and democratic transition in Bolivia.



May 2, 202015:10

In-town pool report #3: call w/Paraguay president 
From Judd Deere:Today, President Donald J. Trump spoke with President Mario Abdo Benítez of the Republic of Paraguay to discuss efforts to combat the coronavirus pandemic. President Trump offered to provide assistance to the Government of Paraguay in support of its healthcare system. President Trump also expressed support for President Abdo Benítez's initiatives to deliver financial help to Paraguayans during this difficult time, and thanked his government for being a strong United States ally on Venezuela and other issues. Both leaders reaffirmed the strong United States-Paraguay relationship and reiterated the importance of working together to advance our shared priorities in the Western Hemisphere.




  