
    President Bush to Nominate Five and Appoint Five Individuals to Serve in His Administration
President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate five individuals and his intention to appoint five individuals to serve in his administration.
The President intends to nominate Gregory Robert Miller to be United States Attorney for the Northern District of Florida. He is currently serving as an Assistant United States Attorney in the Northern District of Florida, and held the same position from 1989 to 1998. From 1998 to 2000, he was an Associate with the Tallahassee law firm of Fowler, White, Gillen, Boggs, Banker and Villareal. From 1987 to 1989, Miller was an Assistant United States Attorney in the Middle District of Florida, and from 1983 to 1987, he was a State's Attorney in Florida's Sixth Judicial Circuit. A former U.S. Marine, Miller is a graduate of Drew University and Ohio Northern University Law School.
The President intends to nominate Steven D. Deatherage to be United States Marshal for the Central District of Illinois. He has served with the East Peoria Police Department since 1975, where he has been promoted through the ranks to Chief of Police. Previously, he served for two years as a Patrolman with the Washington, Illinois, Police Department. Deatherage earned a bachelor's degree from Illinois State University.
The President intends to nominate the following individuals to serve as Member of the Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation:


  William Preston Graves of Kansas for the remainder of a six-year term expiring December 10, 2005
John Roderick Davis of Alabama for the remainder of a six-year term expiring December 10, 2005
Patrick Lloyd McCrory of North Carolina for the remainder of a six-year term expiring December 10, 2005

The President intends to appoint Michele Ridge to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Student Loan Marketing Association. Mrs. Ridge served as the Director of the Erie County Library System from 1979 to 1995. She earned a bachelor's degree from Seton Hill College and a Master's degree in Library Science from the University of Pittsburgh.
The President intends to appoint the following four individuals to serve as Members of the Board of Visitors to the United States Air Force Academy:


  Candace C. De Russy of New York for the remainder of a three-year term expiring December 30, 2004
John E. Kidde of California for the remainder of a three-year term expiring December 30, 2004
Dionel E. Aviles of Texas for the remainder of a three-year term expring December 30, 2003
James H. Harless of West Virginia for the remainder of a three-year term expiring December 30, 2003

  