
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
May 26
In the morning, the President traveled to Arlington National Cemetery in Arlington, VA, where he laid a wreath at the Tomb of the Unknowns. In the afternoon, he returned to Washington, DC.
In the evening, the President and Hillary Clinton traveled to Paris, France, arriving the following morning.
May 27
In the morning, the President met with President Jacques Chirac of France in President Chirac's office at Elysee Palace.
In the afternoon, the President attended a luncheon hosted by President Chirac in the State Dining Room of the Palace.
In the evening, the President met with President Boris Yeltsin of Russia in the Samuel Bernard Room at the U.S. Ambassador's Residence. Later, the President and Hillary Clinton traveled to Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
The President announced the nomination of Bonnie R. Cohen as Under Secretary for Management at the State Department.
May 28
In the afternoon, the President and Hillary Clinton took a brief walking tour of a shopping district in The Hague. In the evening, they took a walking tour of downtown Delft, a Dutch city dating back to the 15th century.
The President announced his intention to nominate Susan Rice as the Assistant Secretary for African Affairs at the State Department.
The President announced the appointment of Christopher J. Queram as a member of the Advisory Commission on Consumer Protection and Quality in the Health Care Industry.
The White House announced that the President will meet with Prime Minister John Howard of Australia at the White House on June 27.
May 29
In the morning, the President and Hillary Clinton traveled to London, United Kingdom. Later, the President met with Prime Minister Tony Blair in the White Room at 10 Downing Street.
In the afternoon, the President and Hillary Clinton visited the U.S. Ambassador's Residence where the President addressed the Embassy staff. In the evening, they returned to Washington, DC.
The President announced the nomination of Paul Simon to serve as a member of the National Institute for Literacy Advisory Board.
May 30
The President announced his intention to nominate James Franklin Collins as Ambassador to Russia.
The White House announced that Chelsea Clinton will graduate from the Sidwell Friends School in Washington, DC, on June 6.
  