
    The President today announced his intention to appoint the following individuals to be members of the Commission on Presidential Scholars.
Bruce E. Brombacher will serve during his tenure as National Teacher of the Year. He is a teacher and chairman of the mathematics department at Jones Junior High School in Arlington, Ohio. He is married, has two children, and resides in Westerville, Ohio. He was born July 3, 1948.
Thomas B. Capecelatro has been an instructor of industrial education for the Norwalk Board of Education since 1976. In addition, he has been owner and manager of a carpentry/landscaping business since 1972. He graduated from Central Connecticut State College (B.S., 1976). He is married, has one child, and resides in Derby, Conn. He was born March 6, 1954.
Betty L. Holmes is associate executive director of the Lake Cumberland Medical Center in Somerset, Ky. She was associate executive director/ nursing service at Suburban Hospital in Louisville, Ky., in 1972-1980. She received her R.N. from the Norton Memorial Infirmary School of Nursing (1950) and graduated from the University of Louisville (B.A., 1971). She has four children and resides in Louisville, Ky. She was born July 9, 1927.
Martha C Moore is Republican National Committeewoman for Ohio, elected in 1968. She attended Wellesley College and graduated from Muskingum College and Ohio State University. She resides in Cambridge, Ohio. She was born November 13, 1918.
James P. Morris is owner and manager of the Commercial Warehouse Co. and Sun City Transfer and Storage Co. in Albuquerque, N. Mex. He is also chairman, Republican State Central Committee of New Mexico. He attended the University of New Mexico. He is married, has three children, and resides in Albuquerque. He was born August 12, 1935.
Priscilla B. Rakestraw is Republican National Committeewoman from Delaware. In addition, she is personnel and training supervisor in the biochemical department at E.I. du Pont de Nemours and Co., Inc. She is married and resides in Hockessin, Del. She is a graduate of Goldey Beacom Junior College. She was born June 7, 1942.
Samuel N. Stroum is chairman of the board and chief executive officer of Schuck's Auto Supply, Inc., in Seattle, Wash. In addition, he serves as a board member and chairman of the audit committee for the Seafirst Corp. and Seattle First National Bank. He is married, has two children, and resides in Mercer Island, Wash. He was born April 14, 1921.
  