
    Pool Reports by Kéthévane Gorjestani, France 24 



Sent:
Reports:




May 3, 202109:28

VP Pool report #1
Good morning,The pool has gathered in the ceremonial office for Bill Nelson‘s swearing-in ceremony as NASA Administrator. The event is scheduled to start at 9:50am.This is the first of 2 swering-in ceremonies on the VP's schedule today.VP's office passes along some background info:
Some background on Bill Nelson's swearing in as the Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA):
The bible he will be sworn in on is a family bible. Today we have a moon rock with us for the ceremony — see additional info below.
Guests:
Nan Ellen Nelson (wife)Bill Nelson Jr (son)Charlie Bolden (former NASA Administrator under Obama-Biden)Pam Melroy (current nominee for Deputy NASA Administrator)Jim Bridenstine (former NASA Administrator – VIRTUAL)
Background on lunar rock:
This Apollo 16 lunar sample (Moon rock) was collected by Astronaut John Young, Commander of the mission, about 15 meters southwest of the landing site.
This rock weighs 129.0 grams. It is a fragment of the original rock that weighed 4,307 grams when returned to Earth.
The sample is a polymict breccia. This rock like all lunar highland breccias is very old, about 3,900,000,000 years, older than 99.99 percent of all Earth surface rocks.
Scientific research is being conducted on the balance of this sample at NASA's Johnson Space Center and at other research centers in the United States and certain foreign nations under a continuing program of investigation of lunar samples collected during the Apollo Program.



May 3, 202110:43

VP pool report #2
The VPOTUS entered the room at 10:25 am followed by Bill Nelson, his family and former NASA administrators.Nelson was sworn in by the VP with his hand on the family Bible.
Correction to previous report on guest list. Bill Nelson was accompanied by his wife GRACE Nelson and his daughter NAN ELLEN Nelson (and his son Bill Nelson Jr)
Charlie Bolden (former NASA Administrator under Obama-Biden) and Pam Melroy (current nominee for Deputy NASA Administrator) were holding a laptop through which Jim Bridenstine (former NASA Administrator) was participating to the ceremony virtually.
Bill Nelson made quick remarks after the swearing in.Pointing to the past administrators, he said it showed "the continuity and bipartisanship with which you run the country's space program"He also called his wife, his "rock, just like the moon rock", pointing to the Apollo 16 lunar sample on the table.
Pool was escorted out at 10:30am
Fuller quotes to come...



May 3, 202111:07

VP Pool report #3
Fuller quotes from Bill Nelson's swearing in (as always do check against tape)
Bill Nelson:"To have the President and Vice Presiden have this kind of confidence in an old buddy from the senate is indeed one of the high honors that anyone could have."
"We wanted not only my family to be here but represented, the former administrator Charlie Bolden, General Bolden, 8 years under Obama, the former administrator Jim Bridenstine, 4 years under Trump, to show the continuity and bipartisanship with which you run the nation's space program particularly NASA."
VPOTUS"Congratulations M. Administrator and for all the work you've done and all you've dedicated to our country."
"Couldn't agree more that this has to be about our nation and what is best for out nation, unencumbered by partisan politics but based on what we know is the right thing to do."
VP has another swearing in ceremony this afternoon for Ambassador Samantha Power as the Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development (USAID)Event is scheduled for 1:30pm per VP Guidance.
That's it from me.Have a great day!




Pool Reports below by Suzanne Lynch, The Irish Times 



Sent:
Reports:




May 3, 202112:28

VP Afternoon Pool Report #1
Good afternoon from the White House.
I will be your pooler for the swearing-in ceremony for Samantha Power as the next head of the US Agency for International Development (USAID)
Ambassador Power is due to be sworn-in by Vice-President Kamala Harris at 1.30 pm in the ceremonial office of the Eisenhower Executive Office Building.
Some background:
Ms Power served as US ambassador to the United Nations during the Obama administration. Born in Ireland, she moved to the United States aged nine with her mother and brother.The Senate confirmed Power as the next USAID administrator last Wednesday on a 68 to 26 vote.
At her hearing before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee in March, she said that she first witnessed the impact of USAID in 1993 in Bosnia when she began her career as a reporter.If confirmed, she said her aim was "to ensure that USAID enhances its longstanding leadership in food security, education, women's empowerment, and global health," while also addressing "four interconnected and gargantuan challenges confronting the world at this moment" - the coronavirus pandemic, climate change, conflict and state collapse, and democratic backsliding.



May 3, 202114:01

VP Afternoon Pool Report #2
Vice-president Kamala Harris entered the ceremonial office in the Eisenhower Executive Office building at 1.41 pm with Samantha Power and her family.
Ambassador Power was accompanied by her husband, Cass Sunstein, her children Declan and Rían, and stepfather Edmund Bourke.
VP Harris administered the oath of office to Ms Power as she held her right hand aloft and left hand on a bible. "Congratulations Madame Administrator" said VP Harris to applause.
After posing for photos with her family, Ms Power gestured towards her daughter Rían who stood on her righthand side. Turning to VP Harris she described "how thrilling it is for me to bring my daughter here, to meet you, to see you in action, for her to know that everything is available to her. {"That's right" - said Harris] From the very first time she saw you on the big screen, you were a role model for her. I know that you're doing that all around the world, but it's personal for us, so thank you."
She continued:
"This is a family commitment, and I just want to thank my family, because we know what lies ahead. In terms of USAID, USAID is an agency that tackles the world's hardest problems. It's no secret that we've got a few of those on our plate right now. From covid itself to the fallout from covid economically, setting back so many development gains that have been experienced in a positive way in recent years. Now, so many of those - whether girl's education, the other vaccinations and immunizations, to economic growth - everything's set back. So we have our work cut out for us, compounded by climate change, compounded by democratic backsliding and I just feel so unfortunate I have one of the greatest work forces that I've ever encountered in actual technical expertise. We've returned to evidence, we've returned to science, we have that expertise to bring to bear."
"So I can't wait to work with you, for you to get to know some of the members of this team. I'm just incredibly honored by your trust in me, by President Biden's trust in me. Thank you so much, and again thanks to my family for bearing with me for the next four years."
VP Harris: "Congratulations - congratulations to the whole family."
All exited the room
From VP office - Guests:Cass Sunstein (Spouse)Rian Power Sunstein (daughter)Declan Power Sunstein (son)Edmund Bourke (Father)Brenda Selena Alfaro González



May 3, 202114:25

VP Afternoon Pool Report #3 (final report)
As I am unable to attach photos, please find link below to a pic on my twitter feed:
https://twitter.com/suzannelynch1/status/1389279693950574593?s=20
Also, note typo in previous report. Penultimate paragraph should read: "I just feel so fortunate I have one of the greatest work forces that I've ever encountered..."
That's all from me - have a good afternoon,




  