
    STATEMENT OF ADMINISTRATION POLICY
(House Rules)(Sponsors: Obey (D), Wisconsin; Hefner (D), North Carolina)
This Statement of Administration policy expresses the Administration's views on H.R. 4453, the Military Construction Appropriations Bill, FY 1995, as reported by the House Appropriations Committee.
The Administration supports House passage of H.R. 4453 as reported by the Committee. The Administration appreciates the Committee's support of the requests for the base closure and realignment program, the operation and maintenance portion of the family housing program, and most construction projects. However, the Administration objects to the Committee's adjustments that would provide:

$789 million for 143 unrequested construction projects, including $268 million for unrequested projects for the National Guard and Reserve;   
$100 million less than the $219 million requested for the NATO Infrastructure program; and   
only $51 million of the $276 million requested for two Army chemical weapons destruction facilities. 

The Administration urges the deletion of funding for unrequested, low-priority projects and the redirection of this funding to high-priority programs, including NATO Infrastructure. The Committee's failure to provide requested funding for NATO Infrastructure could threaten other programs, such as the Partnership for Peace and the Combined Joint Task Force that were recently announced by the President and our allies. Such action could also undermine NATO infrastructure agreements and treaty commitments, and frustrate our efforts to increase the burdensharing contributions of our allies.
The Administration further urges the full funding requested in FY 1995 for two chemical weapons destruction facilities. Providing the $225 million for completion of these projects in FY 1996, as directed by the Committee, would reduce the FY 1996 funding available for other projects, including the readiness and quality of life programs supported by the Administration and the committee.
  