
    "You know, [President Obama] talks like he's for the underprivileged, but when it comes to the money that comes from the teachers union, he's putting the campaign cash ahead of the needs of our kids. We have to recognize it's time to put our kids first, to get education on track by giving people greater choice in schools, by making sure we reward the very best teachers with great careers and rising incomes. We know what to do to make our schools better." – Mitt Romney
Fox and Friends
FOX News
May 24, 2012
Click Here To Watch Mitt Romney Discuss His Plan To Reform Education
STEVE DOOCY, FOX NEWS: "Also yesterday, you had a speech down in, I believe, Washington, DC where you took a shot at unions, teachers' unions, holding back America's students. And, in fact, you came out and you really were pushing more vouchers and things like that. What's the number one problem with the education system in the country right now?"
MITT ROMNEY: "Well, we know what the solutions are to get education to work because we're -- we have 50% of the kids in our 50 largest cities won't even graduate from high school. And we have terrific teachers, we have wonderful parents that are invested and concerned about their kids. But we have a teachers' union that too often stands in the way of the kind of reforms that would make education work. We know, for instance, in Washington, DC that school choice there helped immeasurably with young people improve their quality of learning and their skills, and yet the President shut down the program. You know, [President Obama] talks like he's for the underprivileged, but when it comes to the money that comes from the teachers' union, he's putting the campaign cash ahead of the needs of our kids. We have to recognize it's time to put our kids first, to get education on track by giving people greater choice in schools, by making sure we reward the very best teachers with great careers and rising incomes. We know what to do to make our schools better. One more, by the way, is digital learning. It's making an impact. The teachers' unions fight it tooth and nail. We got to put the unions behind, put the kids first."
  