
    When asked on Good Morning America this morning what tax rate he pays, Donald Trump responded "it's none of your business." If his tax rate is none of our business, what else in his tax returns does Trump think is none of the voters' business? Donald Trump has repeatedly refused to release his tax returns because he claims he's under audit. Unfortunately for Trump, the IRS has explicitly said that excuse is bogus. It's time for Donald Trump to release his full tax returns and stop hiding the truth from voters.
"Our country has a long history of presidential candidates releasing their full tax returns and for good reason. Voters deserve to know what's in Donald Trump's returns - how exactly he makes his money and what he does with it. Enough is enough. We know he's done his best to avoid paying his fair share of taxes. What else is he hiding in those tax returns?" said Hillary for America Deputy Communications Director Christina Reynolds.
But don't just take our word for it:
New York Daily News: Donald Trump could be hiding his true net worth or that he skirts taxes by not coughing up returns
Atlantic: What Is Trump Trying to Hide in His Tax Returns?
Fortune: Here's What Might Be Hiding in Donald Trump's Tax ReturnsTIME: The 'Bombshells' That Could Be in Trump's TaxesCBS News: 5 ways Donald Trump's tax returns could spook votersWashington Post: Trump's false claim that 'there's nothing to learn' from his tax returns
Associated Press: What's in Trump's returns? A look at how he plays tax game
Bloomberg: I Saw Trump's Tax Returns. You Should, Too.
New York Times: What We Can Learn From Donald Trump's Unreleased Tax Returns
Chicago Sun Times: Top five reasons Donald Trump should cough up his tax returns
Market Watch: Opinion: 'Dodging Donald' Trump has no good reason to withhold his tax returns
Boston.com: Mitt Romney calls Donald Trump's refusal to release tax returns 'disqualifying,' again speculates of 'bombshell'
Citizens for Tax Justice: Why Donald Trump May Be Hiding His Tax Returns
  