
    President Donald J. Trump today announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key positions in his Administration:
Richard Ashooh of New Hampshire to be an Assistant Secretary of Commerce, Export Administration. Mr. Ashooh currently serves as the Director of Economic Partnerships at the University System of New Hampshire. Before this, he was the Executive Director of the Warren Rudman Center at the University of New Hampshire School of Law. Prior to his work in higher education, Mr. Ashooh served for over two decades as a senior executive in the aerospace industry, starting his career with Lockheed Martin and then BAE Systems. His primary focus was ensuring the success of programs that protect United States and Allied warfighters, particularly in the electronic warfare space. He has also held senior positions in corporate strategy, homeland security, and public affairs. Earlier in his career, Mr. Ashooh was a Professional Staff Member for the U.S. Senate Committee on Governmental Affairs, with a concentration on federal procurement policies. He graduated from the University of New Hampshire, where he met his wife, with whom he has five children. They reside in Bedford, New Hampshire.
Callista L. Gingrich of Virginia, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Holy See. Ms. Gingrich has been the President and CEO of Gingrich Productions, a multimedia production and consulting company in Arlington, Virginia, since 2007. She is the author of the New York Times bestselling "Ellis the Elephant" children's series and co-author of "Rediscovering God in America." Ms. Gingrich also produces and hosts historical and public policy documentary films. She served as a congressional aide in the U.S. House of Representatives and is President of The Gingrich Foundation, which supports charitable causes. Ms. Gingrich has sung for two decades with the Choir of the Basilica of the National Shrine of the Immaculate Conception in Washington, D.C. She earned a BA cum laude from Luther College in Decorah, Iowa.
----------
President Donald J. Trump Announces Intent to Designate Dr. Poonam Alaigh to be Acting Under Secretary of Veterans Affairs for Health
President Donald J. Trump today announced his intent to designate Dr. Poonam Alaigh to be Acting Under Secretary of Veterans Affairs for Health.
Dr. Poonam Alaigh to be designated Acting Under Secretary of Veterans Affairs for Health. Dr. Poonam Alaigh will serve as Acting Under Secretary for Health for the Department of Veterans Affairs. She has served as the Senior Advisor to the Under Secretary for Health and the executive sponsor of the MyVA Access Initiative. Dr. Alaigh also previously worked as the Commissioner of the Department of Health and Senior Services of New Jersey, as the Executive Medical Director at Horizon Blue Cross Blue Shield of New Jersey, and as National Medical Director for GlaxoSmithKline. Dr. Alaigh completed her residency in internal medicine along with a Masters in Health Care Policy and Management at the State University of New York at Stony Brook, NY.
  