
    To the United States Delegates to the Nineteenth International Labor Conference:
Nineteenth International Labor Conference to which you are accredited as delegates of the United States meets at Geneva on June 4, 1935. It is the first of these conferences at which this Government has been officially represented. In 1933 and again in 1934 we sent observers, but since then, in accordance with the Joint Resolution passed by Congress, the United States has become a member of the International Labor Organization and is now for the first time entitled to full representation on behalf of the American Government, American employers, and American workers.
A conference of this sort is truly an event of significance to the world. From fifty-eight different countries will be assembled governmental officials, employers and workers. Speaking for these three different interests, they will consider certain problems that affect the welfare of wage-earners throughout the world; and after their deliberations they will, it is hoped, propose specific recommendations for action by the several Governments.
On this year's agenda the Conference has a number of matters in which the United States has a deep interest. For example, the Conference proposes to consider an international agreement whereby the hours of work may be reduced to forty in certain specified industries. To the United States such a proposal is not novel. It represents on an international scale the sort of steps that we have already taken through the National Industrial Recovery Act and local legislation. But though it is not novel, it is a proposal for which I hope our delegates will earnestly contend.
Another significant item that the Conference will discuss is the problem of "Unemployment among Young Persons." In response to a request from Congress, the Secretary of Labor has recently made a report on this subject; and this report, in addition to our concrete accomplishments in this field, such as the work of the Civilian Conservation Corps, will undoubtedly guide our American delegates in their attitude.
I know that though there is much that we have to contribute to this Conference, there is also much that we have to learn. And I particularly urge that you, as our delegates, make careful inquiry into such phases of economic security, old-age pensions and unemployment insurance as may come up for discussion at the Conference. It is from the exchange of knowledge and suggestions on these topics that the United States will develop not merely a sounder national policy in the field of social legislation, but also a greater understanding of and sympathy with the problems of' other countries.
  