
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate four individuals and appoint two individuals to serve in his administration:
The President intends to nominate Timothy S. Bitsberger, of Massachusetts, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Treasury (Financial Markets). Mr. Bitsberger currently serves as Deputy Assistant Secretary for Federal Finance at the Department of the Treasury. He previously served as Senior Vice President of Investments at Salomon Smith Barney. Prior to this position, Mr. Bitsberger served as a consultant for J.F. Lehman & Company. He earned his bachelor's degree from Yale University and his master's degree from Harvard University.
The President intends to nominate Larry C. Kindsvater, of Virginia, to be Deputy Director of Central Intelligence for Community Management. Currently, Mr. Kindsvater serves as Executive Director for Intelligence Community Affairs in the Office of the Director of Central Intelligence. He previously served as Director of the Resource Management Office in the Office of the Deputy Director of Central Intelligence for Community Management. Mr. Kindsvater earned his bachelor's degree from Susquehanna University and his master's degree from Bowling Green State University.
The President intends to nominate James R. Kunder, of Virginia, to be an Assistant Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development (Bureau for Asia and the Near East). Mr. Kunder currently serves as Deputy Assistant Administrator for Asia and the Near East at the United States Agency for International Development, where he previously served as Director for Relief and Reconstruction in Afghanistan. Prior to this position, Mr. Kunder served as Founder and Principal of Kunder/Reali Associates, a consulting firm specializing in international humanitarian assistance, post-conflict reconstruction and peacekeeping. He earned his bachelor's degree from Harvard University and his master's degree from Georgetown University.
The President intends to nominate Joseph F. Bader, of the District of Columbia, to be a Member of the Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board for the remainder of a five-year term expiring October 18, 2007. Mr. Bader currently serves as Vice President of Hill International, a worldwide construction consulting firm. Earlier in his career, Mr. Bader served as Senior Project Director for Fluor Daniel, Inc., an engineering, procurement, construction and maintenance services organization. He earned his bachelor's degree from Villanova University and his master's degree from the University of Virginia.
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the Community Development Advisory Board for a four-year term:
John Bryant of California (Officer of a National Consumer or Public Institution Organization)
Nancy J. Leake of Arkansas (Expert in Community Development)
  