
    Pool Reports by Emily Goodin, Daily Mail 



Sent:
Reports:




May 19, 202210:28 ECT

FLOTUS travel pool #1 - arrival at presidential palace
Good morning from Ecuador where Dr. Biden has four events scheduled for today.
First up she's meeting with President Guillermo Lasso and First Lady María de Lourdes Alcívar de Lasso at the Carondelet Palace.
FLOTUS arrived at 9:57 am local time (which is -1 EST) to a full ceremonial welcome.
Biden is wearing a white dress with blue butterflies on it. She and Mrs. Alcívar de Lasso hugged and waved.
Photographers called for shots as the two women posed on a stage in the inner courtyard of the palace.
"Can we go?" Biden joked after a minute of camera shots.
The palace literally rolled out the red carpet. It lined an outdoor colonnade that led to an inner courtyard where the formal greeting took place. There were two soldiers in dress uniforms - white breeches, bright blue coats with gold fastenings, red collar and cuffs, blue hats, tall black boots, and holding long spear-type poles with the Ecuadorian flag on the end - lining each side of the door.
A military band played as Dr. Biden walked up the red carpet where she was greeted at the courtyard entrance by the head of palace protocol and the head of palace security.
They led her to where Mrs. Alcívar de Lasso was waiting.
The inner courtyard had a stage where Dr. Biden and Mrs. Alcívar de Lasso hugged. Ecuadorian and American flags made up the backdrop along with a row of ferns. On each side of the stage was a trellis filled with red, white, pink and yellow roses. Roses are in the top three exports from Ecuador and these flowers were from different regions of the county.
The courtyard was in open air with a fountain on each end. More rose-filled trellises are around the fountains. Staircases led up to the residence. Red, white and blue bunting decorates the upper walkways. There's planters filled with red and pink gardenias on the upper terraces.
After the formal greeting from Mrs. Alcívar de Lasso, Biden and Mrs. Alcívar de Lasso went upstairs to the residence to meet with President Guillermo Lasso (note he was not at the arrival).
It's 57 degrees and sunny here with rain scheduled for later today. We crossed the equator so it's winter here. We are also at 9,350 feet elevation.
The pool preset and did not travel with FLOTUS to the palace.
Pool is holding while Dr. Biden has coffee/tea with the president and First Lady in the residence.
Background from East Wing on this stop:
Today, the First Lady will meet with Guillermo Lasso, President of Ecuador, and María de Lourdes Alcívar de Lasso, First Lady of Ecuador, at Carondelet Palace. Dr. Biden will arrive and greet with Erick Medina, Chief of Protocol, Ecuadorian Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Human Mobility. She will then greet with the following individuals:o Maria Mercedes Guevara, Chief of Protocol of the Presidencyo General Ivan Vasconez Hurtado, Chief of the Military Houseo Ivonne A-Baki, Ambassador of the Republic of Ecuador to the United Stateso Michael Fitzpatrick, United States Ambassador to Ecuadoro Silvana Valdivieso, Spouse of Ambassador Fitzpatrick
Dr. Biden and María de Lourdes Alcívar de Lasso will then proceed inside to the private residence, where they will meet privately with President Guillermo Lasso. (Official photos will be released by the East Wing)
Carondelet Presidential Palace is located in the heart of downtown Quito next to the main square (Plaza Grande) of the city. The palace serves as both the seat of the executive branch of government, as well as the residence of the president and the president's family.
After this we head to our next event where Dr. Biden and First Lady María de Lourdes Alcívar de Lasso will visit Centro De Desarrollo Infantil San Francisco de Quito, a child development center, and learn more about the Government of Ecuador's efforts on childhood nutrition, a priority of the First Lady of Ecuador.
Later Dr. Biden will give a speech. Please note White House live will air her remarks.
Here is what the East Wing gave pool on her speech:
In the afternoon, the First Lady will return to the Carondelet Presidential Palace in Quito to deliver remarks and demonstrate the growing strength of our bilateral relationship with Ecuador; present U.S. regional goals for the hemisphere in advance of the Summit of the Americas to be held in Los Angeles in June; and recognize the importance of the region. Interconnectedness is a key theme of the speech. The President and First Lady of Ecuador will also give remarks. 300-400 people are expected to attend the event.
Then Dr. Biden will cap off her day with a visit to Escuela Oswaldo Guayasamín, a public school that is hosting a U.S.-supported accelerated learning program that helps Ecuadorian, Venezuelan, and Colombian teenagers – who were previously out of school – rejoin the formal school system.
More from this day to come…



May 19, 202211:42 ECT

FLOTUS travel pool report #2 - headed to child development center/FLOTUS remarks
Jill Biden and First Lady María de Lourdes Alcívar de Lasso exited the Carondelet Palace at 11:00 am.
The coffee/tea meeting lasted about 50 minutes and was closed press.
A row of soldiers in ceremonial blue uniforms stood at attention as the two women walked down the red carpet on the colonnade of the palace. Flower boxes filled with blue and white hydrangeas and red and pink geraniums decorated the outside of the colonnade.
They exited on to Plaza Independence - a large park area with two fountains, palm trees and many pigeons.
They walked along the outside of the palace with Mrs. Alcívar de Lasso pointing out features in the plaza and around then palace. Pool couldn't hear the conversation but Mrs. Alcívar de Lasso was pointing and Dr. Biden was smiling.
They came over to take a question from the press about their meeting.
Dr. Biden said they "talked about everything" and "we are friends already."
Mrs. Alcívar de Lasso thanked Dr. Biden for coming and said how important her visit was.
Dr. Biden: "We talked about everything. We talked about education, the pandemic, people, families, how important it is to support the families of our country. And so we're friends already."
More Biden: "And our two countries support one another. We talked about how important democracies are."
Readout of meeting:
"It was a warm conversation that went longer than expected. They really liked one another," East Wing spokesman Michael LaRosa said of the meeting. "It was very personal conversation where they talked about family a lot of the time. About being grandparents. They also talked about what Dr. Biden saw in the Ukraine."
LaRosa also said at the end Mrs. Alcívar de Lasso's daughter Maria Mercedes came in to meet Dr. Biden and gave her a hug.
The two First Ladies are driving separately to our next stop: Centro De Desarrollo Infantil San Francisco de Quito, a child development center, to learn more about the Government of Ecuador's efforts on childhood nutrition, a priority of the First Lady of Ecuador.
Motorcade is rolling …



May 19, 202212:07 ECT

FLOTUS travel pool #3 - child development center visit
Dr. Biden's motorcade arrived at the Centro De Desarrollo Infantil San Francisco de Quito child development center at 11:26 am.
She and First Lady María de Lourdes Alcívar de Lasso first watched some children do an activity.
"Hola," Dr. Biden told the kids when they entered the classroom. "How are you?"
There are seven little kids - aged one to three - seated on the ground. "Hola" they yelled.
The focus of the program is to work with children who live in poverty and in vulnerable situations, an aide told FLOTUS.
The two First Ladies joined the kids around a large circular colorful cloth - everyone grabbed an edge and they waved the cloth up and down. The kids sang a Spanish song. At the end of the song everyone - including the First Ladies - stuck their heads under the cloth.
The classroom had a sign hanging on the wall that said welcome in Spanish. "Bienvendias Jill Biden y María de Lourdes Alcívar de Lasso" it said. It was decorated with the kids handprints in various colors.
At the end of the visit the sign was taken down and placed on a table for Dr. Biden and Mrs. Alcívar de Lasso to sign.
"This is beautiful," Dr. Biden said of it.
At the second classroom seven kids sat around a kids table with a healthy fruit snack in front of them. They are three years old. There are two baskets of fruit on the table with banana, pineapple and papaya.
"What are you eating?" Dr. Biden asked as she sat at the table.
A staff member spoke in Spanish. Dr. Biden had a translator at her side. This is the nutrition room. The kids at center get four meals/snacks daily. The kids also learn to wash their hands and about healthy food.
Dr. Biden tried to interact with a young boy seated next to her - asking his name and what he was eating - but he kept hiding his head and acting shy.
Mrs. Alcívar de Lasso was at the other end of the table speaking with the kids in Spanish.
The classroom was painted in light pink paint with lots of drawings by kids handing in walls - including large poster boards with kids handprints on them in a variety of colors.
From the East Wing on this stop:
The two first ladies will visit the Centro de Desarrollo Infantil San Francisco de Quito, a child development center in Quito, to learn about the Government of Ecuador (GOE)'s nutrition efforts. Addressing chronic childhood malnutrition is a top policy priority for Ecuadorian First Lady María de Lourdes Alcívar de Lasso. The first ladies will visit a playroom and an art room, where they will interact with children and hear about chronic childhood malnutrition in Ecuador, the Government of Ecuador's programs, and the center's efforts to combat child malnutrition.
Upon arrival at the center, the two first ladies will greet with the following individuals:o Esteban Bernal, Minister of Economic and Social Inclusiono Jenny Tierra, Director, San Francisco de Quito Centro de Desarrollo Infantilo Erwin Ronquillo, Secretary, Technical Secretariat for the Prevention and Reduction of Child Chronic Malnutrition, Government of Ecuadoro Isabel Cruz, Director of Articulation and Cooperation, Technical Secretariat for the Prevention and Reduction of Child Chronic Malnutrition, Government of Ecuador. Isabel will lead the tour of the center.
The San Francisco de Quito child development center was founded in 1978 after the Municipality of Quito donated the facilities to the then-Ministry of Social Wellbeing. The center's operations are 100 percent funded by the Government of Ecuador. The center serves 56 children ranging from 1- 3 years old. At this center, there are currently 12 staff, including 6 caregivers. The children at this center receive meals throughout the day, plus health and hygiene care as needed. The center is open from 8:00 AM to 5:00 PM.
Pool is headed to a hold until Dr. Biden's speech.



May 19, 202214:08 ECT

FLOTUS travel pool #4 - remarks at presidential palace
Dr. Biden will make remarks at the presidential palace around 2:15 pm local time, 3:15 pm ET.
Speech will be steamed on White House live: https://www.whitehouse.gov/live/
She's giving it in the inner courtyard of the Carondelet Palace.
Guillermo Lasso, President of Ecuador, and María de Lourdes Alcívar de Lasso, First Lady of Ecuador, will also give remarks.
This is the same area where FLOTUS was formally greeted by Mrs. Alcívar de Lasso this morning. The red carpet is gone and chairs have been set up around the courtyard for the attendees. There is a military band that has been entertaining the crowd.
On either side of the stage are teenage girls in white dresses with colorful embroidery and black cowboy hats. The area in front of the stage has rows of guests.
From the East Wing:
In the afternoon, the First Lady will return to the Carondelet Presidential Palace in Quito to deliver remarks and demonstrate the growing strength of our bilateral relationship with Ecuador; present U.S. regional goals for the hemisphere in advance of the Summit of the Americas to be held in Los Angeles in June; and recognize the importance of the region. Interconnectedness is a key theme of the speech. The President and First Lady of Ecuador will also give remarks. 300-400 people are expected to attend the event.
Note pool arrived to preset so didn't travel with FLOTUS.
After the speech we are headed to her final stop of the day - a visit to Escuela Oswaldo Guayasamín, a public school that is hosting a U.S.-supported accelerated learning program that helps Ecuadorian, Venezuelan, and Colombian teenagers – who were previously out of school – rejoin the formal school system.
Dr. Biden will be speaking shortly.



May 19, 202214:56 ECT

FLOTUS travel pool #5 - FLOTUS remarks
Dr. Biden changed into a white skirt and white jacket with gold buttons for her remarks. She spoke for about 15 minutes.
María de Lourdes Alcívar de Lasso, First Lady of Ecuador, introduced Dr. Biden. Pool was not provided a translation of her remarks. FLOTUS was wearing an earpiece for the translation.
As always please double check quotes against transcript.
Dr. Biden started off by thanking Ecuador for the "warm hospitality and welcome."
She praises the progress Ecuador has made as an inspiration to the region.
"When we work together we can make our nations and our world stronger," she said.
She talked about the mothers she met on her visit to Ukraine. And she talked about parents she met in Buffalo, NY.
She discussed how the world is connected: "Yes, we are connected, especially in the Americans."
"If one nation is vulnerable to … authoritarianism,… or poverty, it won't be long before those same problems reach us all."
"But when nations here in South America embrace democracy you become a living proof that governments can deliver for the people that they represent - inspiring others to follow."
She said of POTUS: "You know, Joe, and I hope that you know that he cares deeply about you and I do too. And that's why I'm here today."
"The United States is committed to Ecuador," she said to great applause.
"We vaccinated people and we're working working on strengthening your healthcare system. Together. We've trained and mentored entrepreneurs and small businesses, especially those run by women. And together, we work to preserve Ecuador's precious environment, help more students go to college. And together, we will defend your government from cyber attacks," she said.
She said the United States is committed to the region.
"And in June, Joe and I are excited to invite leaders and their spouses to Los Angeles, California for the Summit of the Americans. At this summit our leaders have a very ambitious agenda, to come together on things like achieving an equitable and sustainable future."
President Guillermo Lasso and First Lady María de Lourdes Alcívar de Lasso hugged her after her remarks.
President Lasso kissed her cheek. "He said let me give you a kiss," Dr. Biden said.
After President Lasso's remarks, the three posed for a photo.
Motorcade is rolling out shortly for next stop.



May 19, 202216:08 ECT

FLOTUS travel pool #6 - school visit
Dr. Biden arrived at the school at 3:20 pm. It's pouring rain.
The first stop was a classroom with a colorful sign saying "Bienvenida Jill Biden."
There are eight students in the room.
Dr. Biden came in wearing a purple wrap and blue face mask. "Hola," she said.
The teacher spoke in Spanish. Dr. Biden had a translator next to her.
The students were working on a crossword puzzle. Dr. Biden followed along. She got one of the answers "mercy." Unclear what the clue was.
A bunch of students were gathered in a classroom FLOTUS did not visit. They tapped on the glass and waved as pool walked by. Dr. Biden stopped to wave at them.
In the second classroom there were six students - they were all 15 or 16 - around a table. Dr. Biden went around and shook their hands. The students are in an accelerated learning program.
The students introduced themselves. They spoke in Spanish and FLOTUS had a translator with her.
The teens are different nationalities. One boy talked about being a migrant from Venezuela. And they're in a program for students who have missed school and are looking to return to their regular class.
Dr. Biden asked them their dream, what they would like to do.
Answers included forensic doctor, IT engineer, police officer, and business person.
FLOTUS asked if they all have laptops and was told no. She asked if there was a program to loan laptops and was told no. She was told many neighborhoods don't have internet access.
She was asked if she had any other questions such as their favorite subject.
"I know their favorite subject - it's English," said Dr. Biden, an English teacher.
"If you take me back to your country I will go with you gladly," one student told her and they all laughed.
The rain stopped while FLOTUS was in second classroom. A basketball game started in the outdoor courtyard.
The students from the second classroom and Dr. Biden took a photo together outside.
She also took a photo with another group of students in the courtyard. As she stopped to talk to a few girls who wanted the photo, a bunch of other students ran up to get in the shot.
Dr. Biden was then swarmed by students wanting selfies. They circled her and held up their phones. It got a little chaotic and she was surrounded. Senior adviser Anthony Bernal took her elbow and led her out of the mass to a third group of students lined up further down the courtyard for a pic.
After that it was back to the motorcade.
From the East Wing:
Dr. Biden will visit a school to meet with Venezuelan, Ecuadorian, and Colombian teenagers who participate in an accelerated learning program led by the U.S. Department of State's partner, Ecuadorian nongovernmental organization (NGO) "Centro de Desarrollo y Autogestion"(DYA) (Center for Development and Self-Management). With U.S. support, these teenagers, who were previously out of school, are completing accelerated studies in order to rejoin the formal school system at an age appropriate level.
Oswaldo Guayasamin Elementary School provides classrooms on behalf of Ecuador's Ministry of Education for the teenagers to participate in the accelerated learning program. In total, 63 teens participate in the year-long course held at this elementary school. About 500 teens throughout Ecuador are participating in accelerated learning programs made possible through the U.S. State Department's grant to DYA. Dr. Biden will hear from displaced Venezuelan and Colombian youth and out-of-school Ecuadorian teenagers.
Upon arrival, the First Lady, Ambassador Michael Fitzpatrick and Silvana Valdivieso, Ambassador Fitzpatrick's spouse, will arrive and greet with the following individuals:o Sebastian Yerovi, School Superintendent, South Quitoo Gloria Romero, Director, Oswaldo Guayasamin Schoolo Juan Samaniego, Director, Centro de Desarrollo y Autogestion (DYA)o Katrina Reichwein, Regional Refugee Coordinator, U.S. Embassy Quito
Dr. Biden, Ambassador Michael Fitzpatrick, and Silvana Valdivieso will proceed to a classroom, led by Katrina Reichwein. Dr. Biden will have several interactions with students throughout the visit.
This was the last stop. We're headed back to the RON. That's a wrap for today. More tomorrow.




  