
    The President today announced the appointments of the 1985-1986 White House fellows. This is the 21st class of fellows since the program began in 1964.
The 14 fellows were chosen from among 1,139 applicants and screened by 11 regional panels. The President's Commission on White House Fellowships, chaired by Vice Adm. James B. Stockdale, USN (Ret.), interviewed the 34 national finalists before recommending the 14 persons to the President. Their year of government service will begin September 1, 1985.
Fellows serve for I year as special assistants to the Vice President, members of the Cabinet, and the President's principal staff. In addition to the work assignments, the fellowship includes an education program which parallels and broadens the unique experience of working at the highest levels of the Federal Government.
The program is open to U.S. citizens in the early stages of their careers and from all occupations and professions. Federal Government employees are not eligible, with the exception of career Armed Forces personnel.
Leadership, character, intellectual and professional ability, and commitment to community and nation are the principal criteria employed in the selection of fellows.
Applications for the 1986-1987 program are available from the President's Commission on White House Fellowships, 712 Jackson Place NW., Washington, DC 20503.
The 1985-1986 fellows are:
John L. Barry, 33, of Norfolk, VA, is currently a student at the Armed Forces Staff College and a major in the United States Air Force.
Thomas E. Bennett, Jr., 34, of Stillwater, OK, is currently executive vice president of Stillwater National Bank and Trust Co.
Alexander Dimitrief, 26, of Cambridge, MA, is currently a student at Harvard Law School. He is also managing editor of the Harvard Law Review.
Jeri A. Eckhart, 30, of Boston, MA, is currently manager of the Boston Consulting Group.
Karen M. Galatz, 30, of Carson City, NV, is currently the Governor of Nevada's executive aide and news secretary.
Charles B. Kubic, 34, of New York, NY, is currently a lieutenant commander in the United States Navy and assistant officer in charge of construction in the Mediterranean.
Jerrold T. Lundquist, 35, of Stamford, CT, is currently a consultant with McKinsey and Co.
Mark T. Parris, 28, of Dallas, TX, is currently executive director of the Baylor Institute for Rehabilitation.
Kien D. Pham, 27, of Stanford, CA, is currently an M.B.A. student at the Graduate School of Business at Stanford University.
Ronald Z. Quincy, 34, of Lansing, MI, is currently executive director of the Michigan department of civil rights.
Charlene C. Quinn, 30, of Baltimore, MD, is currently professor, School of Nursing, at the University of Maryland.
Arnold I. Rachlis, 36, of Evanston, IL, is currently a rabbi at the Jewish Reconstruction Congregation.
Ann E. Rondeau, 33, of Washington, DC, is currently a lieutenant commander in the United States Navy in the Office of the Assistant Secretary of Defense, International Security Affairs, at the Pentagon.
Richard P. Sybert, 32, of Los Angeles, CA, is currently a partner with Sheppard, Mullin, Richter & Hampton.
  