
    For nearly 50 years, I have had the privilege of calling Tom Carper my friend, my trusted colleague, and my elected representative. Over the years, Tom and I often rode the train together, getting to Washington early in the morning, and back to Wilmington late at night. I personally witnessed his tireless dedication to the people of Delaware. And I continue to admire his sincere commitment to forging consensus across the aisle in order to get things done.
Every part of the State of Delaware is better off because of Tom's devoted service. As State Treasurer, Representative, as Governor, and as U.S. Senator, Tom's steady leadership has made an indelible impact on the State, from strengthening our economy to protecting the environment, to revitalizing our infrastructure.
As a member of the Senate Finance Committee, Tom was instrumental in passing the Affordable Care Act, which has extended quality, affordable health care to millions of Americans. As chairman of the Senate Committee on Environment and Public Works, his leadership has been vital to progress we've made in Delaware and across America to protect public lands and waters and to fight the existential threat of climate change. Over the last 2 years, Tom's leadership has been integral to securing passage of the historic infrastructure law, a once-in-a-generation investment in modernizing our Nation's roads, bridges, railroads, ports, airports, water systems, and high-speed internet, as well as the Inflation Reduction Act, the most significant investment ever to tackle the climate crisis, lower health care and energy costs, and strengthen our energy security.
Tom is also the last Vietnam war veteran serving in the Senate and has spent his career advocating for veterans, especially veterans health care. For millions of veterans across America, and for their families, Tom has been a relentless fighter and persistent advocate.
Beyond his innumerable accomplishments in office, Tom has empowered and inspired generations of young Delawareans to enter public service and run for office. He has served as a role model, a mentor, and a trusted advisor to countless public servants throughout the State.
I look forward to working with Tom over the next year and a half to keep delivering for the American people, and I continue to be grateful for his leadership and service to the people of Delaware in the U.S. Senate.
  