
    Pool Reports by Erin Logan, Los Angeles TimesNote: The pooler continued the numbering sequence from the previous day. Reports numbered 1 through 5 are available in Vice Presidential Pool Reports of May 6, 2022 



Sent:
Reports:




May 7, 202208:05 CDT

VP Supplemental Travel Pool Report #6: VPOTUS arrives at TSU
Good morning from Nashville! It's about 56 degrees Fahrenheit. VPOTUS left RON at 7:47 am CDT via the motorcade, which arrived at TSU without incident at 7:55am.
Your pooler did not see Harris enter or exit her car and peeled off from her at arrival.
Per a WH official, commencement begins at 9am CDT. VPOTUS will begin her commence address between 9:35am-9:45am CDT and it will last for about 20 mins. She's expected to stay the entire ceremony, which is taking place in an outdoor football field.
You can watch the address live here: https://youtu.be/O8-hS_iUHp0
On Background from a White House Official:
Yesterday, Friday, May 6, Vice President Kamala Harris traveled to Nashville, Tennessee where she will deliver the undergraduate commencement address at Tennessee State University. The commencement ceremony will take place at Hale Building Stadium Today, Saturday, May 7th. Vice President Harris will be joined by TSU President Glenda Glover, Birmingham Mayor Randall Woodfin, and Nashville Mayor John Cooper. There, she will also accept an honorary Doctorate of Humane Laws. Vice President Harris will speak to more than 500 graduates about the opportunity and responsibility of leadership in this moment in history. She will discuss how the world needs them and their individual perspectives to help shape the principles that will define the future. She will also talk about how her own experiences—including as a fellow graduate of a Historically Black College or University (HBCU)—have influenced the way she views the world.
Vice President Harris' participation in Tennessee State University's graduation ceremonies comes after a year and a half of historic investments by the Biden-Harris Administration in Historically Black Colleges and Universities, including $5.8 billion in resources and the reissuance of the White House Initiative on HBCUs. In March, President Biden announced TSU President Dr. Glenda Glover would serve as Vice Chair of President Biden'sBoard of Advisors on HBCUs.
As a graduate of Howard University, Vice President Harris understands first-hand the critical role of HBCUs in strengthening our country and developing future leaders, and has prioritized visiting HBCUs and meeting with HBCU leaders. Vice President Harris has visited Hampton University, Clark Atlanta University, Morehouse College, and Howard University, and as recently as this month met with Thurgood Marshall Fund Presidents and Chancellors.
On January 20, 2021, Vice President Harris became the first Vice President to have graduated from an HBCU. On Saturday, May 7th, she will become the first sitting Vice President to have graduated from HBCU to deliver the keynote address at an HBCU's Commencement.
Vice President Harris will also deliver the keynote address during the U.S. Coast Guard Academy's Commencement Exercises on May 18th in New London, Connecticut. In 2021, she delivered the commencement address at the U.S. Naval Academy in Annapolis, Maryland.
Excerpts from Vice President Harris' Remarks as Prepared"Each of you has your own story. Your own way of looking at the world, shaped by every moment that brought you to this point. I was around your age when I made the decision that I wanted to take on systemic problems from inside the system. That I would seek solutions through the lens of my own experiences and perspectives. That I wanted—that I needed—to be in the rooms where decisions were being made. Graduates, you stand on the brink of a new frontier… and we need you in the room helping to make these decisions."
"I stand before you today—as the Vice President of the United States of America, and as a proud graduate of a HBCU—to say: There is no limit to your capacity for greatness. There is no obstacle you cannot overcome. There is no barrier you cannot break.
"I want you to always remember that you are not alone. That you come from people. That you come with people. Because I promise you, there will be a time when you walk into a boardroom, or a courtroom, or maybe even the Situation Room. You will walk into the room, and find that you are the only person there who looks like you or has had your life experience. At that moment, you must remember you are not in that room alone."
Doctorate of Humane LawsTennessee State University's Honorary Doctor of Humane Letters degree recognizes individuals who inspire others, personify excellence, integrity, and commitment, and enhance the public good. According to TSU, "Vice President Kamala Harris serves as the first female and first person of color in her capacity as the Vice President of the United States of America, and as such makes her an excellent recipient for this award. For these accomplishments and more, Vice President Harris will be presented with the Honorary Doctor of Humane Letters degree."
Notable individuals who have received the Honorary Doctorate of Humane Letters from Tennessee State University include: Coach Ed Temple, TSU and Olympic Track and Field Coach, considered the greatest track and field coach of all times; Rev. Al Sharpton, Civil Rights Leader and Motivational Speaker; and Dr. Michael Eric Dyson, Author and Motivational Speaker.
Biden-Harris Administration's Accomplishment on HBCUs

The American Rescue Plan included $3.7 billion to help HBCUs support students' basic needs during pandemic, support campus operations, staffing, teaching, and educational programs; and keep campus safe from COVID.

Tennessee State University received $58.5 in Higher Education Emergency Relief Funds from the American Rescue Plan.
Here is a state-by-state breakdown of $2.7 billion in investments to HBCU.


The Department of Education announced $1.6 billion of debt discharged from loans provided to HBCUs institutions in April 2021.
The Department of Education awarded more than $500 million in grant funding to HBCUs for academic capacity-building and fiscal stability.
In September 2021, President Biden signed an Executive Order to re-establish the White House Initiative on Advancing Educational Equity, Excellence, and Economic Opportunity through HBCUs and issued a proclamation recognizing National HBCU Week.
During HBCU week 2022, President Biden also named Tony Allen, President of Delaware State University, as Chair of the President's Board of Advisors on HBCUs.
In response to bomb threats earlier this year at over 50 HBCU campuses, the Administration announced Project School Emergency Response to Violence (Project SERV) grants for HBCUs that have recently experienced a bomb threat. The $50,000 -$150,000 Project SERV grants could be used for mental health services or improvements to security and readiness infrastructure for impacted Universities.

Tennessee State UniversityTennessee State University was founded in 1912 and is Nashville's only public university and a historically black university. TSU offers 39 bachelor's degree programs, 24 master's degree programs, and eight doctoral degrees. TSU is a comprehensive research-intensive institution with a R-2 Carnegie designation and has a graduate school on its downtown Avon Williams Campus, along with the Otis Floyd Nursery Research Center in McMinnville, Tennessee. Tennessee State University received $58.5 in Higher Education Emergency Relief Funds from the American Rescue Plan.


May 7, 2022
[APP Note: Report #7 does not exist or was not received by the APP.]


May 7, 202209:54 CDT

VP Supplemental Travel Pool Report #8: Harris speech commencement begins
Hello,
It is raining harder!
VPOTUS stood along with the audience who cheered for and sang along as TSU's band played Francis Scott Key's The Star-Spangled Banner and James Weldon Johnson's Lift Every Voice and Sing, which is commonly referred to as the Black national anthem. As the latter played, a montage of videos played on screen. The audience cheered when they saw what appeared to be a clip of the Obama family walking on stage during the 2008 presidential election victory celebration in Chicago.
Harris began speaking at 9:51am CDT.
You can watch the address live here: https://youtu.be/O8-hS_iUHp0



May 7, 202210:18 CDT

VP Supplemental Travel Pool Report #9: VPOTUS commencement speech ends+gets an honorary doctorate degree
At the top of the speech, Harris acknowledged students' family members.
To students, she said:
"I recognize the pride in your eyes," she said. "I can see it."
She asked the class of 2022 to look at each other and remember their colleges experiences, including remote learning and homecoming.
"There are future members of your wedding party in this class. Someone sitting near you will ask you to be godparent to their child."
She said the students were entering an uncertain world. She mentioned the war in Ukraine. She said equality and fairness are being called into question and said extreme poverty and wealth were both on the rise. Harris also mentioned climate change. She said voting and abortion rights, which were settled, were now being called into question.
The audience cheered when she said "The rights of women to make decisions about their own bodies" were being threatened.
Harris expressed optimism, however about theirs and the United States' future.
"You are a generation that grew up online and survived a pandemic. You are familiar with a world that for many of us feels strange and new," she said.
The audience cheered when she mentioned she graduated from an HBCU.
The audience cheered after Harris told a story about the first time she flew on M2. As the helicopter circled around Howard University's "the yard," it's main courtyard, she recalled her days there and said she could "do anything…even if it had never been done before."
She told students:
"There is no limit to your capacity for greatness. And their is no obstacle you cannot overcome. And there is no barrier you cannot break."
She also said:
"I want each and every one of you to always remember that you are not alone. That you come from people, that you come with people. Because I promise you, there will be a time when you walk into a courtroom…and you will walk into the room and you will find you are the only person who looks like you or has had your life experience. And in that moment, you must remember you are not alone."
"I have been many firsts in my lifetime. And as I look out to all of you, I know I will not be the last."
The speech concluded at 10:10 am CDT.
Much of the audience stood when her speech ended.
The university awarded her an honorary doctorate.
Here is background previously shared from a WH official about it:
Doctorate of Humane Laws
Tennessee State University's Honorary Doctor of Humane Letters degree recognizes individuals who inspire others, personify excellence, integrity, and commitment, and enhance the public good. According to TSU, "Vice President Kamala Harris serves as the first female and first person of color in her capacity as the Vice President of the United States of America, and as such makes her an excellent recipient for this award. For these accomplishments and more, Vice President Harris will be presented with the Honorary Doctor of Humane Letters degree."
Harris is expected to shake the hands of all graduates, per a WH official.
You can watch the entire address here: https://youtu.be/O8-hS_iUHp0
I recorded the entire speech. You can listen to it on otter here: https://otter.ai/u/hl7nb-arR4vDUOXRybYYBIx_aMQ
Let me know if you have any Qs.
Please excuse typos I'm typing from my iPhone



May 7, 202211:10 CDT

VP Supplemental Travel Pool Report #10: pool holding at TSU, graduation still ongoing
The rain really picked up after Harris’ speech. Your pool saw Harris shake students hands after they received degrees. Pool was shuffled to the motorcade around 10:50 am CDT and escaped the downpour.
Pool is holding on a dry bus and has a distant view of Harris on stage. She’s expected to stay until commencement concludes, which should be around 11:30.



May 7, 2022
[APP Note: Report #11 does not exist or was not received by the APP.]


May 7, 202212:07 CDT

VP Supplemental Travel Pool Report #12: VPOTUS arrives at Nashville Airport, wheels up shortly
VPOTUS’ ride to BNA, which concluded at 12:02 am CDT, was uneventful. A few dozen onlookers documented the motorcade on their phones as it rolled by.
On the tarmac, VPOTUS did not stop to speak with press under the wind and instead proceeded to AF2. She waved and ascended at 12:04 am CDT.
Before ascending, she took a photo with a few staff members in front of AF2.
We will be wheels up momentarily.



May 7, 202212:20 CDT

VP Supplemental Travel Pool Report #13: AF2 wheels up
At 12:19 pm CDT.
En route to Washington



May 7, 202215:01 EDT

VP Supplemental Travel Pool Report #14: AF2 wheels down, Harris en route to residence+lid
Hello,
AF2 had wheels down at 2:43 pm EDT. The ride was quite smooth initially then became very rocky as we descended. Harris exited AF2 at 2:58pm EDT and proceeded straight to her motorcade, which left JBA en route to the Naval Observatory at 3pm EDT.
Harris was supposed to take M2 to her residence but opted for the motorcade in anticipation of bad weather, according to a WH official. It is currently cold, very windy and rainy.
Pool was not provided a van to travel with VPOTUS to her residence so this will be my last report of today.
Have a wonderful weekend. And don’t forget to see the new Marvel movie!




  