
    The following listing includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the White House Press Office and not included elsewhere in this issue.
April 30
The President met at the White House with:
—Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs;
—Frank B. Moore, Assistant to the President for Congressional Liaison; —Secretary of Transportation Brock Adams;
—Vice President Walter F. Mondale;
—former President Gerald R. Ford. The President transmitted to the Congress the 1977 annual report of the Upland Cotton program.
The President declared a major disaster for the State of Minnesota as a result of severe storms and flooding, beginning on or about April 14, which caused extensive public and private property damage.
The President declared a major disaster for the State of Illinois as a result of severe storms and flooding, beginning on or about March 1, which caused extensive public and private property damage.
May 1
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Mr. Moore;
—the Democratic congressional leadership;
—a group of Congressmen to discuss the department of education legislation;
—Senator John C. Stennis of Mississippi;
—James T. Mcintyre, Jr., Director of the Office of Management and Budget.
The President attended a portion of the briefing by administration officials for members of the Advertising Council held in Room 450 of the Old Executive Office Building.
The President transmitted to the Congress the 1977 annual report of the Department of Transportation.
May 2
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Mr. Moore, Danny C. Tate, Deputy Assistant for Congressional Liaison (Senate), and William H. Cable, Deputy Assistant for Congressional Liaison:
—Thomas Murphy, chairman of General Motors Corp., and winners of the General Motors Cancer Research Foundation Awards;
—members of the Japanese Diet.
The President hosted a reception for Asian/Pacific Americans on the State Floor at the White House.
The President declared a major disaster for the State of Louisiana as a result of severe storms and flooding, beginning on or about April 20, which caused extensive public and private property damage.
May 3
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Mr. Moore;
—Vice President Mondale, Stansfield Turner, Director of Central Intelligence, Hamilton Jordan, Assistant to the President, and Dr. Brzezinski;
—Representative William H. Gray III of Pennsylvania and the National Championship Chess Team from Vaux Junior High School, Philadelphia; —Mrs. Carter, for lunch;
—Emile Van Lennep, Secretary General of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development;
—Ambassador Chai Zemin of the People's Republic of China, Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance, and Dr. Brzezinski.
May 4
The President met at the White House with Vice President Mondale, Secretary Vance, Secretary of Defense Harold Brown, and Dr. Brzezinski.
The President left the White House for a trip to Iowa and California.
  