
    Pool Reports by Brian Bennett, Time Magazine 



Sent:
Reports:




May 1, 2023 10:45

In town pool report #1 - checking in
Greetings from a breezy spring day at the White House. It's about 60 degrees, with just a few grey clouds breaking up the blue sky.
I'll be your print pooler for the day.
Here's the President's schedule, per the White House:
12:00 PM THE PRESIDENT and THE VICE PRESIDENT deliver remarks during National Small Business Week; THE SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATOR participates Rose Garden  Open Press (Preset 11:00 AM, Gather 11:45 AM — Palm Room Doors)
2:30 PM THE PRESIDENT AND THE FIRST LADY welcome His Excellency Ferdinand R. Marcos Jr. President of the Republic of the Philippines and Mrs. Louise Araneta-Marcos to the White House South Portico Open Press (Preset 12:40 PM, Gather 2:15 PM — Palm Room Doors) 
2:45 PM THE PRESIDENT holds a bilateral meeting with His Excellency Ferdinand R. Marcos Jr. President of the Republic of the Philippines  Oval Office In-House Pool Spray (Gather 2:35 PM — Brady Press Briefing Room Doors)
5:30 PM THE PRESIDENT hosts a reception celebrating Eid-al-Fitr; THE VICE PRESIDENT and THE SECOND GENTLEMAN attend East Room Pre-Credentialed Media and Pooled for TV (Preset 3:15 PM, Gather 5:15 PM — Palm Room Doors)
Briefing Schedule
3:00 PM Press Briefing by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre 


May 1, 2023 11:48

In town pool report #2 - gathering for Rose Garden SBA event
Press is gathering for the Rose Garden event.
President Biden will speak to mark National Small Business Week. He will be joined by Vice President Harris and Small Business Administrator Isabel Guzman. The event is open press and scheduled to start at 12 noon.
Biden's remarks will be streamed live on the White House  YouTube channel and on CSPAN. 


May 1, 2023 12:16

In town pool report #3 - 2 minute warning - attendees for SBA event
At 12:13 pm, a White House aide said the SBA event will start in 2 minutes.
From the White House press office:
In attendance for the President and the Vice President's remarks during National Small Business Week:
The Vice President Administrator Isabella Casillas Guzman, U.S. Small Business Administration The Small Business Association 2023 Small Business Person of the Year Award Winners from all 50 states, the District of Columbia & Puerto Rico
Speaking Program
Administrator Isabella Casillas Guzman, U.S. Small Business Administration The Vice President Jill Scarbro, CEO of Bright Futures Learning Services The President
Background on Jill Scarbro, CEO of Bright Futures Learning Services
Jill Scarbo won National Small Business of the Year in 2022 and is the CEO of Bright Futures Learning Services (BFLS), a provider of Applied Behavior Analysis (ABA) therapy services for children with autism.
BFLS began in 2007, helping one child in Scarbro's grandmother's kitchen. Scarbro saw a need for ABA services in West Virginia and expanded her practice to help more children throughout the state.
In 2016, with the help of SBA's 504 program, BFLS moved to their 7,300 square foot home in Winfield, WV. In 2021, BFLS opened a second location in Hurricane, WV and now has 36 employees educating and advocating for children with special needs.
Scarbro has benefited by an array of SBA programs and services including SCORE and SBDC Counseling, the 504 Loan, Emerging Leaders Program, SBA District Office training and counseling, and COVID-19 Economic Injury Disaster Loans, the Paycheck Protection Program, and Debt Relief funding. BFLS was able to retain all employees and pay creditors throughout the pandemic due to this assistance. 


May 1, 2023 12:45

In town pool report #4 - Biden on First Republic Bank
Biden walked out of the Oval Office and into the Rose Garden at 12:23 pm.
He was with VP Harris and Jill Scarbro, CEO of Bright Futures Learning Services. Harris spoke first at the lectern and introduced Scarbro.
Biden came to the microphone at 12:32 pm.
On First Republic Bank:
"Regulators have taken action to facilitate the sale of First Republic Bank and ensure that all depositors are protected, and the taxpayers are not on the hook."
"These actions are going to make sure that the banking system is safe and sound and that includes protecting small businesses across the country who need to make payroll for workers."
"Let me be very clear, while depositors are being protected, shareholders are losing their investments and critically tax payers are not on the hook, as I said earlier."
On debt limit:
"We pay our bills and we should do so without the reckless hostage taking from some of the MAGA Republicans in Congress."
Event is still going on. 


May 1, 2023 12:55

In town pool report #5 - remarks over
Biden finished speaking at 12:49 pm. He walked down to the front row of the audience near the Oval Office windows and is currently shaking hands and talking with attendees.


May 1, 2023 13:04

In town pool report #6 - Biden walks back into the Oval
After his remarks at the SBA event, Biden spent about 10 minutes talking to people in the audience. At one point he put a white cell phone to his ear and talked. As he prepared to leave, he seemed to say, "My wife is waiting for me." (It was hard to hear over the music playing.) Then he turned and walked into the Oval Office with VP Harris at 12:59. 


May 1, 2023 13:35

In town pool report #7 - Lunch lid until 2:15 pm
White House press called a lunch lid until 2:15 pm. 


May 1, 2023 14:55

In town pool report #8 - Marcos arrival
At 2:47 pm, Marcos's black Chevy Suburban pulled up to the South Portico. Philippines President Ferdinand R. Marcos Jr. and Mrs. Louise Araneta-Marcos stepped out of the vehicle.
When the Suburban pulled away, your pooler could see Biden and Jill Biden greeting President Marcos and Mrs. Arneta-Marcos. The four stood for a photo. A reporter shouted a question about what the visit means for China. They walked inside the South Portico. 


May 1, 2023
[APP Note: Report #9 does not exist or was not received by the APP.]


May 1, 2023 15:22

In town pool report #10 - Biden and Marcos remarks in Oval, bilat meeting attendees
The press pool was brought into the Oval Office at 2:54 pm. Biden and President Marcos were sitting in chairs in front of the fireplace, under the portrait of FDR
Biden spoke first.
Biden quotes:
"Welcome back to the White House. We were talking on the way over, it's been a while since you've been here." Biden said that President Marcos told him he had visited the White House with his father.
"We welcome you back."
As Biden spoke, he glanced at a card balanced on his knee.
"We are facing new challenges and I couldn't think of a better partner to have than you."
"Together we're tackling climate change, we're accelerating our countries' transition to clean energy and we're standing up for our shared democratic values and workers rights and rule of law."
"And together we're deepening our economic cooperation."
"We're going to announce today that we're sending a first of its kind presidential trade and investment mission to the Philippines."
"The United States also remains ironclad in our commitment to the defense of the Philippines. Including the South China Sea and we will continue to support the Philippines military modernization."
President Marcos:
"We need to find many ways to strengthen our alliance and our partnership in the face of the new economy, post pandemic. Beyond that there are also new political issues that have made the region where the Philippines is possibly the most complicated geopolitical situation in the world right now. So it is only natural that the Philippines to look to its sole treaty partner in the world to strengthen, to redefine, the relationship that we have and the roles that we play in the face of those rising tensions that we see now around the South China Sea and Asia Pacific."
Press was ushered out of the Oval Office at 2:59 pm.
As press was ushered out the door, President Marcos leaned over to say something to President Biden, but your pooler couldn't hear over the sound of wranglers saying "thank you press."
From the White House:
The President is hosting President Ferdinand Marcos Jr. of the Republic of the Philippines for a bilateral meeting.
U.S. Delegation The President T.H. Antony Blinken, Secretary of State T.H. Lloyd Austin, Secretary of Defense T.H. Tom Vilsack, Secretary of Agriculture T.H. Gina Raimondo, Secretary of Commerce T.H. Katherine Tai, United States Trade Representative T.H. Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs T.H. MaryKay Carlson, Ambassador of the United States to the Republic of the Philippines T.H. Kurt Campbell, Deputy Assistant to the President and Coordinator for the Indo-Pacific, National Security Council T.H. Daniel Kritenbrink, Assistant Secretary of State for East Asian and Pacific Affairs T.H. Edgard Kagan, Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for East Asia and Oceania, National Security Council Ms. Henrietta Levin, Director for Southeast Asia, National Security Council
Philippines Delegation H.E. Ferdinand Marcos Jr., President of the Republic of the Philippines T.H. Ferdinand Martin Romualdez, Speaker of the House of Representatives of the Republic of the Philippines H.E. Enrique Manalo, Secretary for Foreign Affairs of the Republic of the Philippines H.E. Jose Manuel Romualdez, Ambassador of the Republic of the Philippines to the United States T.H. Jesus Crispin Remulla, Secretary of Justice of the Republic of the Philippines T.H. Alfredo Pascual, Secretary of Trade and Industry of the Republic of the Philippines T.H. Maria Antonia Yulo-Loyzaga, Secretary of Environment and Natural Resources of the Republic of the Philippines T.H. Raphael Perpetuo Lotilla, Secretary of Energy of the Republic of the Philippines T.H. Maria Susana Ople, Secretary for Migrant Workers of the Republic of the Philippines T.H. Eduardo Año, National Security Advisor of the Republic of the Philippines T.H. Carlito Galvez Jr., Senior Undersecretary and Officer-in-Charge of the Department of National Defense of the Republic of the Philippines 


May 1, 2023 17:51

In town pool report #11 - Eid-al-Fitr reception - attandees
President Biden walked into the East Room at 5:44 pm for a reception for Eid-al-Fitr.
Imam Makhdoom Zia of MakeSpace spoke first and offered a prayer.
From the White House:
In attendance for the President's remarks at the White House Eid-al-Fitr Reception:
The Vice President The Second Gentleman Rep. Rashida Tlaib (MI-13) Rep. Andre Carson (IN-7) Rep. Illhan Omar (MN-5) Mayor Farrah Khan, Irvine, California Mayor Amer Ghalib, Hamtramck, Michigan Mayor Abdullah Hammoud, Dearborn, Michigan Imam Mohammed Magid, U.S. Commission on International Religious Freedom Additional state and local elected officials
Speaking Program Imam Makhdoom Zia The President 


May 1, 2023 18:21

In town pool report #12 -- Biden remarks at Eid-al-Fitr reception
In the East Room, Biden began speaking at 5:52 pm. Biden interacted a lot with the audience during the speech. The crowd was enthusiastic and vocal.
As Biden started, some one shouted, "We love you!"
Biden said: "Welcome to your home."
Someone said, "Thanks Uncle Joe."
Biden spoke about the importance of "standing up against hate" and described the task force his administration created to reduce anti-Muslim violence and discrimination.
He mentioned the Muslim lawmakers in the room including Rep. Ilhan Omar.
He name checked Ms. Marvel, a Muslim American TV character.
When he stumbled over Kareem Abdul-Jabbar's name in his speech, he said, "I bet he calls me Joe Bidden everyonce in a while."
When a person in the audience pointed out a federal judge in the room, Biden said: "I don't know why you wanted the job man."
When that same person kept talking, Biden said: "You want to come make the speech? Hush up boy, as my mother would say."
A woman later held up her phone and said her son is a US Marine and wants to say hello.
Biden quotes:
"Muslims have been part of the United States from the very start."
"Thank you all of your for your contributions to our nation."
"So I don't get in trouble for holding up prayer to long, happy Eid Mubarak."
He stopped speaking at 6:03 pm. He then walked into the crowd to shake hands and take photos with people. Biden left the room at 6:14 pm.
Here's the link to the White House YouTube channel recording of the event:
https://www.youtube.com/live/fXZpnG6Fr94?feature=share 


May 1, 2023 18:34

In town pool report #13 - lid
White House called a lid at 6:32 pm.
Good evening all! 


May 1, 2023 19:53

In town pool report #14 - Secret Service statement on NJ mayor turned away from Eid event
Your pooler asked the White House about reports that the mayor of Prospect Park, NJ Mohamed Khairullah was blocked from attending tonight's Eid al-Fitr reception with Biden.
A spokesman for the US Secret Service sent this response:
"While we regret any inconvenience this may have caused, the mayor was not allowed to enter the White House complex this evening. Unfortunately we are not able to comment further on the specific protective means and methods used to conduct our security operations at the White House." --Anthony Guglielmi, Chief of Communications, United States Secret Service 




Pool Reports below by Lalit K Jha, Press Trust of India 



Sent:
Reports:




May 1, 202314:50

Foreign Pool Report # 1
At 2:45 pm POTUS and FLOTUS welcomed President Ferdinand R. Marcos Jr. of the Philippines and Mrs. Louise Araneta-Marcos at the South Portico
POTUS and President Marcos are now headed to the Oval for a bilateral meeting. There would be a pool spray at the top. 



  