
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate two individuals, appoint 14 individuals and designate one individual to serve in his administration:
The President intends to nominate Peter Cyril Wyche Flory, of Virginia, to be an Assistant Secretary of Defense (International Security Policy). Mr. Flory currently serves as Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense ( International Security Affairs). Prior to that position, he served as Chief Investigative Counsel and subsequently Special Counsel for the U.S. Senate Select Committee on Intelligence. Earlier in his career, Mr. Flory worked at the Department of State as an Associate Coordinator for Counter-Terrorism and served as Special Assistant to the Under Secretary for Policy at the Department of Defense. He earned his bachelor's degree from McGill University and his J.D. from Georgetown University.
The President intends to nominate William Sanchez, of Florida, to be Special Counsel for Immigration-Related Unfair Employment Practices at the Department of Justice for a term of four-years. Mr. Sanchez currently serves as Senior Partner in the law firm of William J. Sanchez, P. A., specializing in immigration and international law. Prior to establishing his own firm, he was an international law professor at Ateneo University in Manila, Philippines. Earlier in his career, he worked as a staff attorney at the Haitian Refugee Center in Miami, Florida. Mr. Sanchez earned his bachelor's degree from the University of Miami and his J.D. from Georgetown University.
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the President's Advisory Commission on Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders:
Betty Wu, of New York, and upon appointment designate Chairman William P. Afeaki of Utah Nina Nguyen Collier of Washington Akshay Desai of Florida Vellie Sandalo Dietrich-Hall of Virginia William Kil of California John C. Kim of California Jimmy Lee of Illinois Joseph Melookaran of Kansas Derrick Nguyen of California Rudy Pamintuan of Illinois Martha Cruz Ruth of Guam Jeffrey B. Sakaguchi of California Kenneth Wong of Pennsylvania
  