
    Pool Reports by Laura Figueroa Hernandez, Newsday 



Sent:
Reports:




May 25, 2023 09:32

Pool Report 1 - Brunch Lid/12:30pm
Good Morning,
The White House Press Office passes along the following...
Brunch lid until 12:30 PM.
A reminder that the preset for the Rose Garden event is at 12:30 PM. 


May 25, 2023 13:12

Pool Report 2 -- 2 minute warning/Briefing
2 minute warning called at 1:10pm 


May 25, 2023 13:43

Pool Report 3 - Gathering
Pool and press have been called to gather for POTUS Rose Garden event announcing new Chairman for the JCOS. We are now in position as the daily press briefing continues.
Pooler will send color, but the event itself will be livestreamed for those who want to follow along
Whitehouse.gov/live 


May 25, 2023 13:51

Pool Report 4 - 2 min warning
National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan was seated in the front row. John Kirby seated behind him. SGOTUS just arrived
2 min warning.... 


May 25, 2023 14:02

Pool Report 5 - POTUS on debt limit negotiations
POTUS walked out of the Oval Office at 1:52pm
Started off by addressing debt ceiling negotiations:
Speaker McCarthy and I have a very different view of who should bear the burden of additional efforts to get our fiscal house in order. I don't believe the whole burden should fall on the backs of middle class and working class Americans..."
POTUS then went on to introduce his appointee
For chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, General Charles Q. Brown as VPOTUS and Defense Secretary Austin also joined on stage
Attendee list From the White House:
In attendance for the President's remarks announcing his intent to nominate General Charles Q. Brown, Jr. to serve as the next Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff:
The Vice President The Second Gentleman Secretary Lloyd Austin, Department of Defense Jeff Zients, Assistant to the President and Chief of Staff to the President Director Avril Haines, Office of the Director of National Intelligence Rep. Betty McCollum (MN-04) Rep. Kenneth Calvert (CA-41) Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs Jon Finer, Assistant to the President & Principal Deputy National Security Advisor Liz Sherwood-Randall, Assistant to the President & Homeland Security Advisor Phil Gordon, Assistant to the President & National Security Advisor to the Vice President Kathleen Hicks, Deputy Secretary of Defense  Frank Kendall, Secretary of the Air Force General Mark Milley, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Director William Burns, Central Intelligence Agency Colin Kahl, Undersecretary of Defense for Policy  Admiral Christopher Grady, Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff General David Berger, Commandant of the Marine Corps  General James McConville, Chief of Staff of the Army  Admiral Michael Gilday, Chief of Naval Operations  General Charles Q. Brown, Jr, Chief of Staff of the U.S. Air Force General Danial Hokanson, Chief of the National Guard Bureau  Cara Abercrombie, Deputy Assistant to the President & Coordinator for Defense Policy and Arms Control Garrett Hoffman, Deputy Assistant to the President & Director of the White House Military Office John Kirby, Deputy Assistant to the President and NSC Coordinator for Strategic Communications Jason Israel, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for Defense Policy and Strategy Department of Defense officials and military leaders 


May 25, 2023 14:08

Pool Report 6 - Event concludes/No Qs
Ceremony concluded at 2:05pm
POTUS did not respond to questions shouted from reporters about the ongoing negotiations 


May 25, 2023 16:44

Pool Report 7 -- Lid
A lid was called at 4:43p.m. 



\r\n
  