
    The following list does not include promotions of members of the Uniformed Services, nominations to the Service Academies, or nominations of Foreign Service officers.
Submitted May 18
Jose de Jesus Rivera, of Arizona, to be U.S. Attorney for the District of Arizona for a term of 4 years, vice Janet Napolitano, resigned.
Submitted May 21
Richard M. Berman, of New York, to be U.S. District Judge for the Southern District of New York, vice Kevin Thomas Duffy, retired.
Sylvia de Leon, of Texas, to be a member of the Reform Board (Amtrak) for a term of 5 years (new position).
Michael S. Dukakis, of Massachusetts, to be a member of the Reform Board (Amtrak) for a term of 5 years (new position).
Donovan W. Frank, of Minnesota, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of Minnesota, vice David S. Doty, retired.
Linwood Holton, of Virginia, to be a member of the Reform Board (Amtrak) for a term of 5 years (new position).
Colleen McMahon, of New York, to be U.S. District Judge for the Southern District of New York, vice John F. Keenan, retired.
William H. Pauley III, of New York, to be U.S. District Judge for the Southern District of New York, vice Peter K. Leisure, retired.
Amy M. Rosen, of New Jersey, to be a member of the Reform Board (Amtrak) for a term of 5 years (new position).
John Robert Smith, of Mississippi, to be a member of the Reform Board (Amtrak) for a term of 5 years (new position).
Tommy G. Thompson, of Wisconsin, to be a member of the Reform Board (Amtrak) for a term of 5 years (new position).
Submitted May 22
Louis Caldera, of California, to be Secretary of the Army, vice Togo Dennis West, Jr.
Greta Joy Dicus, of Arkansas, to be a member of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission for the term of 5 years expiring June 30, 2003 (reappointment).
Awilda R. Marquez, of Maryland, to be Assistant Secretary of Commerce and Director General of the U.S. and Foreign Commercial Service, vice Lauri Fitz-Pegado.
Hugh Q. Parmer, of Texas, to be an Assistant Administrator of the Agency for International Development, vice M. Douglas Stafford, resigned.
Joan Specter, of Pennsylvania, to be a member of the National Council on the Arts for a term expiring September 3, 2002, vice Patricia Ann Brown, term expired.
Gerald Bruce Lee, of Virginia, to be U.S. District Judge for the Eastern District of Virginia, vice James C. Cacheris, retired.
Patricia A. Seitz, of Florida, to be U.S. District Judge for the Southern District of Florida, vice Stanley Markus, elevated.
  