
    Ladies and gentlemen:
As you know, for the past several weeks we have been considering in the leadership meetings and in other areas, reform of the postal system.
Those studies have now been completed, and I am sending to the Congress today a message incorporating the recommendations made by the Postmaster General. This is the most significant reform bill ever sent to the Congress, ever offered by an administration in this area.
The Postmaster General will answer your specific questions, but I would summarize these points:
First, it will dramatically improve the working conditions for the 750,000 men and women who work in the postal service.
Second, we believe it will, without question, increase the efficiency and reduce the cost, eventually, of postal service in the United States.
Third, it continues the progress toward a goal we set for ourselves early in this administration, of completely removing the Post Office Department from political control.
As a matter of fact, this is the first message, I believe, sent by a President to the Congress in which the President is recommending, with the concurrence of his Cabinet officer, that the Cabinet position be abolished, because the Postmaster General, assuming that we are able to get approval of this program, substantially, the Postmaster General will no longer hold the Cabinet rank that he presently has.
I believe this message is one of the most significant proposals that will be made during the entire period of this administration. I think it will have a very significant effect on not only this Government but particularly the future of the Nation insofar as the postal service affects it.
It has my complete backing, and I think the Postmaster General is to be congratulated for getting the support that he has on a bipartisan basis--as he will explain to you in his speaking before you--on a bipartisan basis from the Congress and in the country for the message up to this time.
The Postmaster General--at least we call you that until this program is adopted.
  