
    Pool Reports by Shelby Talcott, The Daily Caller 



Sent:
Reports:




May 19, 202115:56

VP Pool Report #1: Pool Gathered
Good afternoon! I'll be your pooler for the top of VP's virtual meeting with individuals from the Guatemalan diaspora.
Pool has gathered ahead of event at approx 3:55pm. I'll pass along information from WH and color as it pops up.



May 19, 202116:01

VP Pool Report #2: Rolling
Pool was ushered into EEOB at 3:58pm. We're holding outside of VP's Ceremonial Office as of 4:00pm.



May 19, 202116:10

VP Pool Report #3: Background from WH
?Pool was ushered into VP Chief of Staff office at 4:08 for holding.
*One change per WH that pool was just informed of: Everyone's in person for this event.
Background from WH:
ON BACKGROUNDToday at 4:15 PM ET, the Vice President is meeting with Guatemalan justice sector leaders in her Ceremonial Office. The meeting will underscore the importance of a just, transparent, and impartial legal system in Guatemala that allows Guatemalans to build a safer and better future.The meeting is with four Guatemalan women who served in prominent judicial roles in Guatemala and worked to strengthen the rule of law and expand access to justice. The participants are Guatemalans who live and work in the United States or elsewhere, largely because they have had to leave Guatemala because of reprisal and recrimination for their work to increase access to justice and fight corruption in Guatemala.
Their perspectives will add to the information the VP has heard from experts on the region, philanthropic leaders with expertise in the region, community leaders on the ground, and others on Root Causes of Migration, economic development and opportunity, women and youth, and other issues.
As leaders in key Guatemalan judicial institutions during the past decade, they worked to reduce violence against women, tackle corruption, and find reconciliation for crimes committed during Guatemala's Civil War (1960-96). They have also worked on issues such as domestic violence, tackling organized crime, protecting indigenous rights, and broader reforms that underpin a thriving business community.
Participants:

Claudia Paz y Paz, Former Attorney General of Guatemala (2010-2014)
Claudia Escobar, Former Guatemalan Appeals Court Magistrate (2010-2015)
Thelma Aldana, Former Attorney General of Guatemala (2014-2018)
Gloria Porras, Former Guatemalan Constitutional Court Judge (2011-2020)

Staff at tableRicardo Zuniga, Special Envoy to the Northern TriangleNancy McEldowney, National Security AdvisorJuan GonzalezSpecial Assistant to the President and Senior Director for Western Hemisphere


May 19, 202116:20

Pool Report #4: VP Begins Remarks
?VP passed by Chief of Staff's office at 4:16, maskless and smiling. She said hi to pool as she passed by.
Pool was ushered back into hallway in front of entrance to VP Ceremonial Office at 4:17. Pool entered room at 4:19 and VP began speaking at that time.
Quotes/color to follow.



May 19, 202116:28

Pool Report #5: VP Remarks
"Most of my career I spent as an attorney fighting for injustice ... this is a table of leaders," VP began.
One woman at the table was wearing a mask. Everyone else was maskless. Everyone had a glass of half filled water and name tags (that your pooler could not read).
"Today we have leaders from this background who have fought .... fighting for justice in Guatemala," VP said.
She noted that some leaders have been forced to leave the country because of their work and she's here today to hear their stories. VP said she will use these stories to help her address issues (mentions migration at the border).
VP also mentioned her visit to Guatemala in June. She said injustice is the root cause of migration.
"People are facing discrimination ... families are living in fear of traffickers and gangs," VP said.
"I believe strongly in judicial independence, that will be a topic of our discussion. I believe the government must be held accountable when it violates the rights of its people," VP added.
Her final points: "If we give people a sense of hope that if they stay help is on the way, that they will do what they want to do." (remain with their families.)
VP did not respond to a question from a member of the pool. Pool was ushered out at 4:25pm.
Rough transcript to follow.



May 19, 202116:55

VP Pool Report #6: Rough Transcript of VP remarks
*This is a rough transcript*
VP: "It is an honor to be with all of you and thank you for accepting the invitation to meet with me and our team this afternoon. As you may know from my background and most of my career I spent as an attorney fighting for justice and fighting against injustice and this is a table of leaders who have fought for justice and fought against injustice – often at great peril to yourselves, but in the interest of the greater good, in the interest of Democratic values, and in the interest of all that we hold dear in terms of ensuring that we have a just society that will fight corruption that the individual does not experience injustice ...
And so today we have leaders from this background, who have fought and who have spent their entire career fighting for justice in Guatemala. At this table are attorneys who have prosecuted drug traffickers and organized crime. At this table are judges who have advocated for an independent judiciary and the rule of law. Leaders who have taken on corruption, who have taken on violence and have worked to commit themselves to what must happen in terms of ensuring there will be justice as it relates to all people in Guatemala.
Some of these leaders have been forced to leave the country because of this work and we are here because I want to hear your stories – unfiltered, unedited and direct. I intend to then work, informed with your knowledge, your feedback and your perspective on the work that we, as the United States, intend to do to address the root causes of migration from the Northern Triangle.
Understanding that among the root causes is the issue of corruption and the disintegration or violations of the rule of law. So that's why I've asked you to join me today and along ... in preparation for the ongoing work we will do, including my visit to Guatemala at the beginning of June.
And, as you know and I don't need to tell you this, injustice is a root cause of migration and in particular it is causing the people of the region to leave their homes involuntarily, meaning they don't want to leave but they are fleeing. Women, indiginous people, Afro-descendants, LGBTQ people are facing discrimination and persecution.
Families are living in fear of traffickers and gangs. Corruption is preventing people from getting basic services that they should be entitled to receive such as educating their children, getting a business started or participating in a fair judicial trial.
And so these are some of the areas that we will focus on. I want to underscore one point also, which is that corruption is also a deterrent to financial and economic investment in the region. A significant deterrent. So if part of our goal is to look at what we can do to support and enhance economic development in the region, understanding that lack of economic opportunity is one of the reasons that...
If we are prevented from a course of action that is about spurring economic activity because of the legitimate concern of corruption, that is another reason that demands our attention to what we must move to reduce corruption, if not eliminate it in the region.
So that's the work that we are going to do together. I believe strongly in judicial independence, that is a topic that will be the topic of our discussion. I believe that the government must be held accountable when it violates the rights of its people and I believe that a judicial system, when it is just, gives people confidence that they can live in a way that they can raise their families, that they can live with freedom and they can live with certainty that there will be equal application of the law as it relates to all people, regardless of who they are and which family they were born into.
So, I will say as my final points that the work that we are doing in this region is motivated by a number of principals, including my firm belief that if we give people a sense of hope – that if they stay help is on the way – that they will do what they want to, which is remain with their families, remain with their kin. And part of giving people hope is having a very specific commitment to rooting out corruption in the region.
So that is our work and I am honored again to have these incredible leaders join us and I'm looking forward to our candid discussion.
That's all from me today! Please don't hesitate to reach out with questions and have a great rest of the day.(Apologies, for pool report 4 and 5 I forgot to note in subject it was VP pool)



May 19, 2021
[APP Note: Report #7 does not exist or was not received by the APP.]



 
Pool Reports below by Christian Datoc, Washington Examiner 



Sent:
Reports:


May 19, 202118:13

VP pool report #8 — remarks
Pool was escorted over to EEOB around 5:35pm and huddled just outside South Court.
When we entered the room. VP was already standing on the stage and kicked off her remarks at 6:02pm.
She opened her remarks by thanking the summit hosts.
"The work of the AAPI victory alliance is so important... for strengthening democracy for all Americans."
"We are at the start of a new era. We have a unique opportunity to shape our nation's future."
"First we have the opportunity to shape how we live, and what I mean by that is how we live together"
VP noted that over 6,000 anti-Asian hate incidents were reported throughout the pandemic.
"Those numbers are always underreported"
She noted that she and POTUS met with AAPI leaders in ATL following the string of spa shootings that killed 6 people of Asian descent"
"In America a harm against one of us is a harm against every one of us..."



May 19, 202118:13

VP pool report #9 — more quotes, remarks finished
She noted that POTUS will soon sign the anti-AAPI jate bill into law.
Harris said the administration is working to increase the number of AAPI workers who are union members.
"I'm also talking about lowering the barriers" that make it harder for ppl to work, like child care costs.... "That is a priority for us. Everyone who wants to work should" be able to
"We have the opportunity to shape how we vote... and we must start with how we" handle attacks on voting rights.
"Since the start of 2021, more than 360 bills that restrict the right to vote have been introduced" in states across the country.
"Voting rights are not Democratic rights or Republican rights. They are American rights"
"This past year has been marked by pain... we have an opportunity to turn that pain into action"
VP finished her remarks at 6:10pm and exited the stage before pool. We're now waiting to walk back to WH.
Full transcript to follow



May 19, 202118:37

VP pool report #10 — the stage and full transcript 
The scene (typical South Court): https://twitter.com/TocRadio/status/1395141254569242624
TRANSCRIPT (remember to check against the tape: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vr7BdEIZ5eA&feature=youtu.be)—————————————————Thank you, [Chairman] Shakar, thank you. Thank you for everything you do, and to all the leaders who are part of this convening this evening, I say to each and every one of you. Needless to say, there are people who we may never meet, and people may never know your names, who are benefiting because of your work, your hard work and your advocacy and your strength and your courage and your commitment.
So with that I think Good evening, it is an honor to be with everyone this evening. I want to begin of course by thanking our Chairman Shaker and Natalie Reyes and Stephanie Brown James for your leadership. The work of the AAPI Victory Alliance is so important, and it is the work of mobilizing our AAPI community and strengthening the community, and strengthening our democracy for all Americans. This work could not be more important, so thank you all.
You know, as we emerge from the pandemic, I believe that we are at the start of a new era. I believe that we have a unique opportunity now to shape our nation's future. To transform how we live, how we work, and how we vote for the better. First, we have the opportunity to shape how we live, and what I mean by that is how we live together. How we live together as one nation, built by many. How we respect one another, and how we see one another. So early on in the pandemic 1,100 anti-Asian hate incidents, had been reported. Over a year later, just about a year later, we are now up to more than 6,600, and nearly two in three were reported by women. And I will tell you, as the previous Attorney General of California — and I've published case reports —those numbers are always underreported. So the numbers I just shared with you are not an accurate reflection necessarily of the number of hate crimes that have actually occurred.
In March, President Joe Biden and I sat down with Asian American leaders in Atlanta, Georgia, days after the shootings, tragic shootings that killed eight people, six of whom we all know were of Asian descent. Seven who were women. And I spoke then about how Asian Americans have the right to be recognized as American, not as the other. Not as them, but as us. In America, I do believe a harm against any one of us is a harm against all of us, and we should all then recognize that interconnection between each of us. And that is why thanks to leaders like my dear friend Senator Mazie Hirono, and the great Grace Meng, the congresswoman from New York, Congress passed the COVID-19 Hate Crimes Act. And that is why the President will soon sign this historic bill into law.
Second, we have the opportunity to shape how we work, and I'm talking about putting Americans to work in good union jobs. The AAPI community knows the power of unions, building on the tradition of the Filipino farmworkers who organized in the 1960s, to the fact that as of today, we know at least 10 percent of AAPI workers are represented by unions. And we are working, of course, to increase that number, because it is about making sure that all workers have a voice in a way that we ensure they are paid for the value of their work, and they work in a place that gives them safety and protection. I'm also talking about removing the barriers that make it harder for people to work, and that means lowering the cost of childcare and strengthening our care infrastructure for those with aging relatives. We were all raised to take care of our elders, to understand how much they deserve to have our respect and dignity, and so that is a priority for us because everyone who wants to work should have the support they need to support their family members, including their elders, and do what they need to do to work.
Finally, we have the opportunity to shape how we vote. We have the opportunity to makevoting easier, not more difficult, to lift up more voices, not fewer. And we must start by fighting against attacks on voting rights, and it is happening right before us in so many instances in such a blatant way, and in an unapologetic way. So we must fight against those attacks was the start of 2021. More than 360 bills to restrict the right to vote have been introduced in nearly every state in the United States of America. Many of these bills, specifically target vote by mail, and let's be clear about this, specifically target vote by mail while 64 percent of Asian Americans vote by mail. In fact, in Georgia, in the state of Georgia in the runoff election that just happened, which by the way, changed the balance of the United States Senate, so that now I'm the tiebreaker. Well, nearly 34 percent of Asian Americans voted by mail, compared to 24 percent of voters on average. So we must see these efforts for what they are. Let's be clear eyed: they are an attempt to suppress the right to vote, and while we must be vigilant in defending the voting rights that currently exist, we must also do that and work to expand the right of all Americans to vote, and that includes urging Congress to pass the John Lewis Voting Rights Advancement Act and urging the Senate to pass the For The People Act and to send both to the president's desk for signature. And I want to be clear, as far as I'm concerned, voting rights is not a Democratic right, or a Republican right, it is an American right.
Let me end today, where I began with, where I see us, in terms of this new era, that I believe we are in. I know this past year has been marked by pain, so much pain for so many, and in particular, members of the AAPI community. When we saw the targeting, when we've seen this hate, when we've seen the viciousness of it all. We all see that, and as a member of this community, I share in that outrage and grief. And I believe we have an opportunity now to turn that pain into action. To turn that pain, that righteous anger because of the injustice of it, we have an opportunity to turn that into power. Into power.
The work, to transform our nation's future, and it is what I call the American aspiration, is the ability to see what can be unburdened by what has been. It is the determination, not only to train, but to do. It is the mission of the AAPI Victory Alliance. Thank you all again for everything you do, and may we all continue to aspire to what can be. May God bless you, and may God bless America.———————————
Have a great rest of your Wednesday evening, y'all!





  