
    Today, Senator Gillibrand is proud to announce her first New Hampshire endorsement: State Representative Sue Ford. Citing her focus on families, Representative Ford knows that Senator Gillibrand is the best person to take on the greed and corruption that has taken over Washington and stand up for working families. This endorsement comes after Senator Gillibrand introduced her plan to establish a Family Bill of Rights.
State Representative Sue Ford is a four-term State Representative from Grafton and the current Chair of the House Finance Division II Committee. She served as the Grafton County Democratic Committee Chair up until earlier this month, when she decided not to seek re-election, and was also previously the Grassroots Chair for the New Hampshire Democratic Party, where she coordinated with activists across the state to promote Democratic causes and organize actions.
Representative Ford said, "I'm endorsing Senator Gillibrand because she cares for New Hampshire families as if they were her own. I won't soon forget her first visit to Littleton where she entered the room and immediately chose to talk to a young boy of about 8, and heard from him about what he's worried about. It says something that she not only acknowledges different voices, but actively seeks them out."
"Senator Gillibrand will always fight for the silenced, marginalized, or ignored and I know that as President she will amplify those voices as she builds on her record of standing up for what's right and advocates for the issues that affect our children like education, climate change, and public safety. I'm proud to endorse Senator Gillibrand."
Representative Ford also released a Medium Post elaborating on her support of Senator Gillibrand.
"I'm honored to have earned the endorsement of State Representative Sue Ford," said Senator Kirsten Gillibrand. "She is an incredible legislator who has used her position to take on the big fights in New Hampshire, like fighting for high quality education and health care, and has delivered results to families across the state. Her bravery and refusal to accept the status quo inspires me to continue to stand up for what's right and fight back against the corruption and greed that has come at the expense of millions of Americans.
"I'm proud to have her support as we continue to build our grassroots campaign in New Hampshire, and look forward to working with her in the coming months to win the First in the Nation Primary and then head to the White House."
  