
    Pool Reports by Shelby Talcott, The Daily Caller 



Sent:
Reports:




May 25, 202118:00

VP Pool Report #1: Gathering
Good evening from the White House, I’ll be your VP pooler.
Your pooler was COVID tested and pool is gathering as of 6:00pm. Will pass along background information from the WH when available.



May 25, 202118:16

VP Pool Report #2: Background & On The Record Quote
Passing along background from the WH on those attending:
Guests of Kristen ClarkeMiles Avery (son)Pansy Clarke (mom)Karen Clarke (sister)Mustafa Aksakal (partner)Clara Aksakal (daughter of Mustafa)Here's on the record comment from Symone Sanders. Please check this against the audio (many thanks to Jeff Mason!):
"This is a historic moment because for the first time since its creation, following the enactment of following the enactment of the Civil Rights Act of 1957, the confirmed Assistant Attorney General for Civil Rights will be a woman, and will be a black woman, and that is Kristen Clark. She is a timeless champion of equal justice. She has done groundbreaking and courageous legal advocacy and enforcement work, accompanying virtually every area of civil rights, including voting rights, religious freedom, gender equity, educational equity, LGBTQ rights, criminal justice reform, immigration rights. She's got a long list of accomplishments, she's a badass ... The Department of Justice is, I would argue, getting a gem in Kristen Clark. In this position, her personal and professional experience has prepared her to take on this important job and it's a critical moment in this time and vice president Harris is looking forward to swearing her into that. Thank you. Great, thank you. And I guess the last one I want to make is that ... And I would I would refer you all over to the Department of Justice for additional questions about Clark's confirmation and the work that she will be, she is going to be doing, but I think it is safe to say from my perspective that there's nothing partisan about protecting the civil rights of the American people. And that's exactly what we'll be doing in this role."
Pool is holding in van as of 6:15pm.



May 25, 202118:30

VP Pool Report #3: Rolling
?Pool is rolling to DOJ as of 6:29.
We are told she will make comments on Floyd after swearing in. Will pass along.



May 25, 202118:37

VP Pool Report #4: Arrival
Pool arrived at approx 6:34pm and are holding inside the building. This event will be in the same room where Merrick Garland was confirmed, we’re told.



May 25, 202118:40

VP Pool Report #5: Holding
Pool was ushered down a few halls and into the attorney general’s conference room at 6:38pm. We are holding here.



May 25, 202118:46

VP Pool Report #6: Note on Sanders statement
Note: For pool report #6, transcript for last line should read "that's exactly what Kristen Clarke will be doing..." I sent along the recording but please let me know if you didn't get and need.
We are still holding as of 6:44.



May 25, 202118:54

VP Pool Report #7: Swearing in
VP, Clarke and attendees entered room at 6:50pm. VP, in a black suit, swore Clarke, wearing a blue dress, in. Garland stood by smiling. VP congratulated Clarke and those in the room clapped.
Garland began speaking at 6:51pm with a brief history lesson on the Lawyers Committee for Civil Rights.
"This gives me particular pride of being able to have the now former president of the civil rights committee as our civil rights division ... We are so happy that you have finally arrived."



May 25, 202119:02

VP Pool Report #8: VP on George Floyd
VP spoke about George Floyd for a few minutes, appearing to almost tear up at one point. She ended her comments at 6:56 and left the room. Below is a *rough* transcript. I'll send a more complete one soon once I listen to the recording.
Pool is holding in the room as of 6:58pm.
Remarks:
"Yeah, so it was good to see the family again. Today of course the anniversary of his [George Floyd] murder. And, you know I have to tell you, it has been the case since I first met the family through today, that they have shown such dignity in the face of such an atrocious tragedy. They have been consistent in using their voice in a way that has been about lifting. Other families and other injustices, but doing it with the purpose of compelling actions to fix what we know are the problems in the system, in their grief, are so generous in the way that they have been supporting other families and supporting a system that that, that is rightly you in the face of injustice to what we know, needs to be reformed. And so I commend them I am in awe of their courage, their continuing courage, the selflessness. I mean truly in the way that they have approached this and George Floyd would be alive today."
On likelihood of legislation being passed soon:
"you know we are waiting, we're listening, we're hearing. The work is happening, you know Senator Cory Booker, he and I together wrote the Justice and Policing act when I was in the Senate, together with Karen Bass and Jerry Nadler on the House side, and, and the work that they have been doing has it been I think intensive work through the weekends. Some House members ... not going back to the district, continuing to work on it so they're working around the clock from everything I can see. And we're waiting to hear that there seems to be a bit of optimism, coming from the hill, and that gives me a sense of optimism and we'll wait and see."



May 25, 202119:11

VP Pool Report #9: Rolling / Transcript
Pool left the room at 7:03pm. (Apologies as well, the room we were in is where Garland was sworn in). Clarke's mother held the Bible for her swearing in.
Here's a better transcript. Please reach out to me if you'd like a recording and I can send.
"Yeah, so it was good to see the family again. Today, of course, the anniversary of his [George Floyd] murder. And, you know I have to tell you, it has been the case since I first met the family through today, that they have shown such dignity in the face of such an atrocious tragedy. They have been consistent in using their voice in a way that has been about lifting up Other families and other injustices, but doing it with the purpose of compelling actions to fix what we know are the problems in the system. They in their grief, are so generous in the way that they have been supporting other families and supporting a system that that, that should rightfully yield in the face of injustice to what we know needs to be reformed. And so I commend them, I am in awe of their courage, their continuing courage, the selflessness. I mean truly, selfless, in the way that they have approached this and George Floyd should be alive today."
On likelihood of legislation being passed soon:
"You know we are waiting, we're listening, we're hearing. The work is happening, you know Senator Cory Booker, he and I together wrote the Justice and Policing Act when I was in the Senate, together with Karen Bass and Jerry Nadler on the House side, and, and the work that they have been doing has it been I think intensive work through the weekends. Some House members including Karen Bass not going back to the district, continuing to work on it so they're working around the clock from everything I can see. And we're waiting to hear that there seems to be a bit of optimism, coming from the Hill, and that gives me a sense of optimism and we'll wait and see."
Pool rolling back to WH as of about 7:07.



May 25, 202119:16

VP Pool Report #10: Arrival at WH
Pool arrived back at WH at 7:14. VP went back to residence.
That’s all from me. Please reach out with questions and have a good evening!




  