
    
"Senator Obama has said he would sit down without condition with Ahmadinejad, the President of Iran. That not only gives prestige to a terrible America- and Israel-hater, but it also threatens our allies in the region. ... I'm saying when it comes to dealing with enemies, both in the Middle East and around the world, Senator McCain has more experience, more balance, knows when to be tough, knows when to be soft." -- Senator Joe Lieberman
Senator Joe Lieberman (I-CT)
CNN's "Late Edition"
May 11, 2008
CNN'S WOLF BLITZER: "All right, do you have any doubt about Senator Obama's commitment to maintain a very supportive role for the United States as far as Israel is concerned?"
SEN. LIEBERMAN: "I have no doubt about that. But here's what I want to say. Senator Obama has said he would sit down without condition with Ahmadinejad, the President of Iran. That not only gives prestige to a terrible America- and Israel-hater, but it also threatens our allies in the region.
"Look, I'll give you another example. This is an indirect step that can undermine our position in the Middle East. Earlier this year, Senator Kyl and I introduced a resolution in the Senate, which called on the administration to impose economic sanctions on the Iranian Revolutionary Guard that is training and equipping Iraqis that are going back into Iraq and killing American soldiers, hundreds of them. ... Senator Obama did not [support it]. He said it was saber-rattling. It was the exact opposite of that. It was economic sanctions. It had nothing to do with the military." 
BLITZER: "I think what he said, it would give a green light to the Bush administration to consider military action. Something like that." 
SEN. LIEBERMAN: "No way. It was the exact opposite of that. I don't question Senator Obama's commitment to the security of the state of Israel. I'm saying when it comes to dealing with enemies, both in the Middle East and around the world, Senator McCain has more experience, more balance, knows when to be tough, knows when to be soft."
Watch Senator Joe Lieberman On CNN's "Late Edition"
  