
    I had a report this morning from the White House escort group, or the guides, that this was the most vigorous and dynamic group they've ever taken through the White House. I asked them if you were trying to take the paintings off the wall and so forth. They said, "No, they're just interested in everything, and they really are eager."
I'm very glad to welcome here the senior citizens who are participating in the seventh year of the legislative intern program. This is, I think, vivid proof that you don't have to have a massive Federal bureaucracy to have an excellent program. And I'm very proud that you would come and let me share in your experience here in learning about our Federal Government at first hand.
I know you've had thorough briefings on many of the things that apply directly to the retired people of our Nation concerning social security. I know you've learned that this Congress quite courageously in the last 2 years has protected the integrity of the social security system. When I was campaigning for President in 1976, I don't think I ever had a meeting with a group that I didn't get a question, "What are we going to do about social security, because it's facing bankruptcy?"
It's no longer facing bankruptcy. It's sound. And I hope that you'll express your appreciation to the Members of Congress who did take this politically courageous step. It's not always easy, as you know, to increase taxes on those who are working in our country. But we saw the necessity for bringing social security back to a sound financial condition.
I think it's important to point out, too, that although inflation is a problem for us all, we have, from the Government perspective, made that portion of your income, in effect, inflation-proof. And your July checks, as you well know, will encompass an increase that would accommodate inflation having been measured in the month of June.
I wish that all aspects of inflation could be alleviated. You can help me a great deal when you go back to your home, when you have influence on the preparation of the policies of senior citizens groups. I hope that you'll remember that the most singly important step that the Congress can take this year on inflation is to pass hospital cost containment.
Many of you may feel that since Medicaid and Medicare takes care of many of the hospital bills, that this is all you need. But that's not true at all, because the extraordinary increase in hospital costs, about twice as rapid an increase as the general inflation rate, doubling every 5 years, not only prevents our moving into a more comprehensive health program, because of the extraordinary costs, we have got to control costs before we can have a full-time program.
But I'd like to point out to you that everything you buy in this Nation is affected by the impact of rapidly increasing health care costs. I won't take much time, but let me give you one example.
If any of you buy an automobile this year or next year, the cost of health care for automobile employees, those who make the automobiles, is greater in your automobile cost than the cost of all the steel that goes into the automobile. So, you are paying in everything you buy for these extraordinary increases in health care, much above what it ought to be.
In the States like Connecticut, for instance, and others that have imposed hospital cost containment, everyone has benefited. Those who go to the hospital as patients, the owners of hospitals, the general public has benefited, and, of course, your money goes in, if you pay taxes, to finance the unwarranted, excessively high cost of hospital care. I need your help on that.
You've gotten briefings on transportation; you've gotten briefings on consumer affairs from Esther Peterson. You've gotten briefings on other very important elements of government that apply directly to you. But I don't look on senior citizens its just being interested in things that apply to you personally.
In effect, you come here as students, and I know the tremendous benefit of continued education programs. I'm under the process of being educated every day myself as President. And I hope that you will set an example of how a senior citizen's mind and heart can continue to grow and to expand every day of life.
My mother is, obviously, that way. She'll be 81 this summer and she's growing every day, and I know all of you are. And I think this dynamic expression of the ability of senior citizens, not only to grow within yourself but to continue to contribute just as greatly, perhaps some of you contribute even more to a better America now than you did when you were full-time employees at a young, vigorous age.
Now, in your older, vigorous age, I want you to do the same thing. And I want our Government to force us to recognize that. But I also want you to be interested in other things as well. SALT is important. The security of our country, the contribution to world peace is just as great a responsibility on your shoulders as it is on the shoulders of your sons and daughters or your grandsons and granddaughters, and as it is on mine. And I know that your own concept of responsibilities of our Government has been greatly expanded by your presence here.
The last thing I'd like to say is that you will, in effect, be ambassadors in the coming months and years, because those around you in your own home communities and your own families will look upon you as having had a special privilege to come and meet with and serve with Members of the Congress, to be briefed by top administration officials, to come to the White House to meet personally with the President. That's an experience and a privilege that many people don't have.
And so, you will be observed very carefully as you go back home, and as the months and years go by as a special ambassador for the Government of the United States of America. And so, in effect, you'll be partners with me and with the Congress. And I have great appreciation for your contribution so far and even greater appreciation for the tremendous increased contribution that you'll make in the future.
Thank you very much. God bless all of you.
  