
    Miller to Serve as Co-Chair of Governors Council
The Clinton campaign today announced the endorsement of former Nevada Governor Bob Miller and named him co-chair of the campaign's national Governors Council.
"I am so pleased today to endorse Hillary Rodham Clinton for President," said Miller. "I have known Senator Clinton for many years, and know first hand that she has both the experience and the vision to lead our country. I am honored to serve a strategic role in the campaign by co-chairing the Governors Council, and excited about the opportunity to help elect a leader who has shown a deep, personal commitment to public service throughout her career."
The Governors Council is a national panel of current and former top state executives who will advise the campaign on policy issues and both state and regional outreach strategies.
Miller served as Governor of the State of Nevada from 1989 to 1999, and is distinguished as the longest serving governor in state history. He served as Chair of both the National Governors Association (1996-7) and the Western Governors Association (1993-4). He also served as Co-Chair of ACHIEVE, NGA's public/private partnership to improve American education. He is a founding member and current Chair of the Past Governors Association.
Miller, who has held several elected offices including Lieutenant Governor and Clark County District Attorney, is known for his leadership and advocacy for education, combating crime and protecting natural resources. During his tenure as governor, he was appointed by President Bill Clinton to the Advisory Commission on Intergovernmental Relations.
Miller is currently a principal with Dutko Worldwide and operates its Las Vegas office. He has been affiliated with Dutko since 2001 as a Partner in Kaufman, Pattee, Branstad & Miller. Miller was formerly a partner in the Las Vegas law firm of Jones Vargas, practicing legislation and government relations, international business law, resort development and gaming law.
Governor Miller served as Nevada State Chair of Bill Clinton's 1992 and 1996 presidential campaigns.
"Bob is one of the most respected leaders in the country, due to his achievements as Governor of one of the fastest-growing states in the nation, his work in promoting education at all levels and strengthening public safety in our communities, and his leadership among state executives on a national level," said Clinton. I am delighted that he will help to lead our efforts nationally."
  