
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

More than two centuries ago, our Nation's founders, with clear vision and courageous hearts, fashioned a new form of government for our new country. They created a government that honors human dignity and protects individual rights—a democracy strong enough to withstand external threats, secure enough to allow dissent from within, and responsive enough to help our citizens achieve their dreams. In doing so, America's founders created a Nation that inspired loyalty from its citizens and gave hope to oppressed peoples around the world.
Since then, generations of Americans have reaffirmed their loyalty and devotion to our country. During times of war, Americans have fought and died to defend our liberty and promote the ideals of democracy. In times of peace, we have strived to preserve the rights secured for us in the Constitution and to ensure that every American enjoys the full protection of those rights. And throughout the decades, Americans have strived to build upon the "more perfect Union" envisioned by our country's founders.
On Loyalty Day, as we formally acknowledge our faith in America and in this great democracy, let us rededicate ourselves to the continuing quest for a more perfect union. Let us have the courage not only to recognize our differences, but also to build on the dreams we share and on the values we hold in common. Let us reaffirm our belief in freedom, equality, justice, and opportunity for all of our people. And let us show to all the world that our diversity is a source of lasting strength and renewal.
The Congress, by Public Law 85-529, has designated May 1 of each year as "Loyalty Day" to remind us of the many blessings we enjoy as citizens of this great land.
Now, Therefore, I, William J. Clinton, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim May 1, 1998, as Loyalty Day. I urge all Americans to recognize the heritage of American freedom, to honor the memory of those who have served and sacrificed in defense of that freedom, and to express our loyalty to our Nation through appropriate patriotic programs, ceremonies, and activities. I also call upon Government officials to display the flag of the United States in support of this national observance.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this first day of May, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-eight, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and twenty-second.

WILLIAM J. CLINTON
  