
    Veteran Official and Teacher to Co-Chair State Campaign
The Clinton campaign today announced the endorsement of Clark County Commissioner Chris Giunchigliani and named her co-chair of the Nevada campaign.
"I am absolutely thrilled to endorse Hillary Clinton today, and can't wait to see her take office as our next president," said Giunchigliani. "Hillary is a visionary with an unmatched record of advocacy on behalf of those without a voice in society. As president she will fight for better education, more accessible health care and ethical, responsible government. Those are priorities with the power to set our nation on the right track. I'm honored to play a strategic role in the campaign and to help Hillary make history -- here in Nevada and all the way to the White House."
Giunchigliani, who took office as Clark County Commissioner in January, 2007, is one of Nevada's most dedicated and respected community leaders. A 27 year resident of Clark County, she has served as a member of numerous boards, committees and organizations. She was elected to the State Assembly in 1990, where she served for eight sessions and five special sessions prior to her election to the Clark County Board of Commissioners.
A career teacher, Giunchigliani has taught middle school special education for more than 25 years. She served as president of the Clark County Education Association from 1983 to 1987, and president of the Nevada State Education Association from 1987 to 1991.
She is widely recognized for her leadership on issues ranging from law enforcement and the environment to advocacy on behalf of women and working families. She has been named "Role Model of the Year" by Las Vegas Life Magazine, and recognized as a "Fighter and Advocate for the Little Guy" by former Nevada Governor Bob Miller.
"Chris Giunchigliani is a true dynamo, with tremendous knowledge of Nevada and one of the most recognized grassroots networks in the West," said Clinton Nevada Chair Rory Reid. "Her work as a special education teacher, community advocate and elected official gives her a unique understanding of the important role government can play in assisting the disadvantaged. Her experience and endless enthusiasm will be tremendous assets to our efforts."
  