
    By the President of the United States of AmericaA Proclamation
1. On January 19, 2018, the Secretary of Commerce (Secretary) transmitted to me a report on his investigation into the effect of imports of aluminum articles on the national security of the United States under section 232 of the Trade Expansion Act of 1962, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1862). The Secretary found and advised me of his opinion that aluminum articles were being imported into the United States in such quantities and under such circumstances as to threaten to impair the national security of the United States.
2. In Proclamation 9704 of March 8, 2018 (Adjusting Imports of Aluminum Into the United States), I concurred in the Secretary's finding that aluminum articles were being imported into the United States in such quantities and under such circumstances as to threaten to impair the national security of the United States, and decided to adjust the imports of aluminum articles, as defined in clause 1 of Proclamation 9704, by imposing a 10 percent ad valorem tariff on such articles imported from most countries.
3. In Proclamation 9704, I further stated that any country with which we have a security relationship is welcome to discuss with the United States alternative ways to address the threatened impairment of the national security caused by imports from that country, and noted that, should the United States and any such country arrive at a satisfactory alternative means to address the threat to the national security such that I determine that imports from that country no longer threaten to impair the national security, I may remove or modify the restriction on aluminum articles imports from that country and, if necessary, adjust the tariff as it applies to other countries, as the national security interests of the United States require.
4. The United States has successfully concluded discussions with Canada and Mexico on satisfactory alternative means to address the threatened impairment of the national security posed by aluminum imports from Canada and Mexico. The United States has agreed on a range of measures with Canada and Mexico to prevent the importation of aluminum that is unfairly subsidized or sold at dumped prices, to prevent the transshipment of aluminum, and to monitor for and avoid import surges. These measures are expected to allow imports of aluminum from Canada and Mexico to remain stable at historical levels without meaningful increases, thus permitting the domestic capacity utilization to remain reasonably commensurate with the target level recommended in the Secretary's report. In my judgment, these measures will provide effective, long-term alternative means to address the contribution of these countries' imports to the threatened impairment of the national security.
5. In light of these agreements, I have determined that, under the framework in the agreements, imports of aluminum from Canada and Mexico will no longer threaten to impair the national security, and thus I have decided to exclude Canada and Mexico from the tariff proclaimed in Proclamation 9704, as amended. The United States will monitor the implementation and effectiveness of these measures in addressing our national security needs, and I may revisit this determination as appropriate. 6. In light of my determination to exclude, on a long-term basis, these countries from the tariff proclaimed in Proclamation 9704, as amended, I have considered whether it is necessary and appropriate in light of our national security interests to make any corresponding adjustments to such tariff as it applies to other countries. I have determined that, in light of the agreed-upon measures with Canada and Mexico, it is necessary and appropriate, at this time, to maintain the current tariff level as it applies to other countries.
7. Section 232 of the Trade Expansion Act of 1962, as amended, authorizes the President to adjust the imports of an article and its derivatives that are being imported into the United States in such quantities or under such circumstances as to threaten to impair the national security.
8. Section 604 of the Trade Act of 1974, as amended (19 U.S.C. 2483), authorizes the President to embody in the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (HTSUS) the substance of statutes affecting import treatment, and actions thereunder, including the removal, modification, continuance, or imposition of any rate of duty or other import restriction.
Now, Therefore, I, Donald J. Trump, President of the United States of America, by the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including section 232 of the Trade Expansion Act of 1962, as amended, section 301 of title 3, United States Code, and section 604 of the Trade Act of 1974, as amended, do hereby proclaim as follows:
(1) Clause 2 of Proclamation 9704, as amended, is further amended in the second sentence by deleting the "and" before "(c)" and inserting before the period at the end: ", and (d) on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on May 20, 2019, from all countries except Argentina, Australia, Canada, and Mexico".
(2) The "Article description" for heading 9903.85.01, in subchapter III of chapter 99 of the HTSUS, is amended by replacing "of Australia" with "of Australia, of Canada, of Mexico".
(3) The modifications made by clauses 1 and 2 of this proclamation shall be effective with respect to goods entered for consumption, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on May 20, 2019, and shall continue in effect, unless such actions are expressly reduced, modified, or terminated.
(4) Any imports of aluminum articles from Canada and Mexico that were admitted into a U.S. foreign trade zone under "privileged foreign status" as defined in 19 CFR 146.41, prior to 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on May 20, 2019, shall not be subject upon entry for consumption made after 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on May 20, 2019, to the additional 10 percent ad valorem rate of duty imposed by Proclamation 9704, as amended.
(5) Any provision of previous proclamations and Executive Orders that is inconsistent with the actions taken in this proclamation is superseded to the extent of such inconsistency.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this nineteenth day of May, in the year of our Lord two thousand nineteen, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and forty-third.
DONALD J. TRUMP
  