
    Energized: Hillary "had been campaigning for more than 16 hours when she strode onto the stage at Evansville Central High School just before 11 p.m....But Clinton betrayed barely a hint of fatigue as she beamed at a crowd of screaming supporters at the high school. '˜This campaign has been a joy,' she said...Clinton has brought a new zeal to the trail in recent weeks that she shows no signs of abandoning." Read more.
By the Numbers: "The latest Ipsos poll conducted over the weekend shows that on the eve of the Indiana and North Carolina primaries, Democratic candidate Hillary Clinton has taken over the lead in popular support from Democrats nationally (47-40)." Less than two weeks ago, Ipsos showed Sen. Obama leading nationally. Read more.
If You Watch One Thing: "Democratic presidential contender Hillary Clinton appeared on Monday on the '˜Late Show with David Letterman' to deliver the '˜Top 10' reasons she loves America, which included the ability to order her trademark pantsuits around the clock on the Internet." [Watch here.] Read more.
Why I Support Hillary: General Hugh Shelton, former Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff on why he supports Hillary: "We need a president who will end this war honorably...Clinton is the best person for the huge challenge we still face in Iraq...[she] has gotten to know our military during her time as first lady and as a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee...She understands the impact of endless commitments on the service families who also serve our country...After five years, we now have the opportunity to bring this war to an honorable end, with Sen. Clinton as our next commander-in-chief." Read more.
Sen. Obama's Attacks Debunked: "Obama is wrong about the gas tax: Think Clinton's plan to suspend the gas tax temporarily is a bad idea? A similar measure in Illinois - which Obama backed - seems to have helped consumers." Read more.
"Illuminating, Inspiring" A Charleston Gazette op-ed describes how "Hillary Clinton's performance on the Senate Armed Services Committee demonstrates her deep desire to know everything necessary to lead this country in difficult, even dangerous, times." Read more.
Clinton Is Right For Democrats: The Bend Bulletin endorsed Hillary yesterday: "[S]he is a candidate of proven substance. Even if you discount the value of her eight years as first lady " which, if nothing else, familiarized her with the position she seeks — her Senate tenure has been more than twice as long as Obama's... this country would be better off under the leadership of a pragmatic realist than a celebrity politician whose legislative record, such as it is, contradicts his oratory. In any case, she'd probably be more likely than Obama to defeat McCain in November."
  