
    Pool Reports by Emily Goodin, Daily Mail 



Sent:
Reports:




May 18, 202212:32 EDT

FLOTUS travel pool #1 - Ashley Biden tested positive for Covid and not coming on trip
Ashley Biden was scheduled to come on the Ecuador, Panama and Costa Rica trip with Dr. Biden but is no longer coming as she has tested positive for Covid, per East Wing spokesman Michael LaRosa.
Pooler has inquired if she was a close contact to POTUS and FLOTUS and will share any information received.
Your FLOTUS pool is in route to JBA. Dr. Biden will arrive later via Marine One with POTUS, who is scheduled to attend a hurricane preparedness briefing at the base.
We are scheduled for a 1:40 pm departure to Quito, Ecuador.



May 18, 202213:03 EDT

FLOTUS travel pool report #1A - Ashley Biden not a close contact to POTUS and FLOTUS
Ashley Biden is not considered a close contact to POTUS and FLOTUS, per East Wing spokesman Michael LaRosa.



May 18, 202213:45 EDT

FLOTUS travel pool #2 - Departure to Ecuador
Dr. Biden arrived at JBA via Marine One at 1:34 pm.
She came off Marine One with POTUS. The two walked to Executive One Fox holding hands.
The Bidens kissed and hugged at the bottom of the stairs. POTUS stood at the bottom watching as FLOTUS boarded. She blew him a kiss from the top of the stairs and waved. He waved back.
Dr. Biden is wearing a white skirt with a light blue jacket. She was wearing a face mask when she stepped off Marine One but removed it.
It is a five hour flight to Quito, Ecuador. We are traveling on a blue and white C32. Tail number 90003.
FLOTUS has one event scheduled upon arrival. It is closed press. From her official schedule:
The First Lady will depart the United States for Quito, Ecuador on the afternoon of Wednesday, May 18. In the evening, she will meet with U.S. embassy staff at the U.S. embassy in Quito.
Executive One Foxtrot is wheels up shortly.



May 18, 202219:01 ECT

FLOTUS travel pool #3 - arrival in Ecuador
Executive One Foxtrot was wheels down at Mariscal Sucre International Airport in Quito, Ecuador at 6:31 pm local time (which is -1 EST).
Flight was uneventful with no visitors to the press area.
Dr. Biden descended into the dark rainy night at 6:48 pm. It is 60 degrees and pouring here.
FLOTUS had on a trench coat. One of Executive One Foxtrot's flight attendants walked behind her carrying an umbrella over her as she came down the stairs.
The official greeting line has red and black umbrellas being held over their heads.
Dr. Biden walked down the greeting line (see list of names below) shaking hands and chatting. She and the First Lady of Ecuador exchanged kisses on the cheek.
FLOTUS waved as she got in her car but didn't stop to chat.
At 6:54 pm, Dr. Biden's motorcade headed to the embassy to meet with staff. It is closed press so the pool is headed to the RON.
From the East Wing:
The First Lady looks forward to arriving in Latin America today on a long-planned trip in advance of the Summit of the Americas to discuss issues that are important to families across the Americas. Ecuador, Panama, and Costa Rica are partners in the region, and her trip reflects the importance of our relationship with these three nations as well as their commitment to democracy.Upon arrival in Quito, the First Lady will greet with the following individuals:His Excellency Erick Medina, Chief of Protocol, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Human Mobility, Republic of EcuadorMrs. María de Lourdes Alcívar, First Lady of the Republic of EcuadorMs. Maria Mercedes, First Daughter of the Republic of EcuadorHis Excellency Juan Carlos Holguin, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Human Mobility of the Republic of EcuadorHer Excellency Ivonne A-Baki, Ambassador of the Republic of Ecuador to the United StatesThe Honorable Michael Fitzpatrick, U.S. Ambassador to EcuadorMrs. Silvana Valdivieso, Spouse of the U.S. Ambassador to Ecuador
After, FLOTUS will head to the U.S. Embassy Quito, where she will meet and greet with embassy staff and their families, and show her appreciation for their service and gratitude for their resilience and accomplishments through the challenges of COVID-19.
TRAVELING WITH FLOTUSEmily Mendrala, Deputy Assistant Secretary, Bureau of Western Hemisphere Affairs, U.S. Department of StateAnthony Bernal, Senior Advisor to the First LadyJordan Montoya, Senior AideMala Adiga, Policy DirectorMichael LaRosa, Press SecretaryAmber Macdonald, SpeechwriterMarty Browne, Trip DirectorKelsey Donohue Deputy Comms. DirectorPatricia Liu, Deputy Associate Director of PolicyErin Scott, PhotographerJenna Sumar, VideographerEric Jacobstein, Director for Central America, National Security CouncilMarcus Switzer, Deputy Director of Protocol, U.S. Department of State
That's all from Day One. More tomorrow.




  