
    WASHINGTON, DC – Today, President Barack Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key Administration posts:
•      Greta C. Holtz – Ambassador to the Sultanate of Oman, Department of State
•      Alexander M. Laskaris – Ambassador to the Republic of Guinea, Department of State
•      Allison M. Macfarlane - Commissioner, Nuclear Regulatory Commission, upon appointment to be designated Chair
•      Marcie B. Ries – Ambassador to the Republic of Bulgaria, Department of State
•      Walter M. Shaub, Jr. – Director, Office of Government Ethics
The President also announced his intent to appoint the following individuals to key Administration posts:
•      Fred P. Hochberg - Member, Board of Trustees of the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars
•      Earl W. Stafford – Member, President's Board of Advisors on Historically Black Colleges and Universities
President Obama said, "These dedicated individuals bring a wealth of experience and talent to their new roles, and I am grateful they have agreed to lend their considerable talents to this Administration. I look forward to working with them in the months and years ahead."
President Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key Administration posts:
Greta C. Holtz, Nominee for Ambassador to the Sultanate of Oman, Department of State
Greta C. Holtz, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Minister-Counselor, serves as Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for Public Diplomacy and Strategic Communications in the Bureau of Near Eastern Affairs. From 2009 to 2010, Ms. Holtz was Director for Provincial Affairs at the U.S. Embassy in Baghdad. Previous assignments in Washington include Director of the Middle East Partnership Initiative in the Bureau of Near Eastern Affairs (2006-2007) and Coordinator for the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe within the Bureau of European Regional Political-Military Affairs (2004-2006). Ms. Holtz entered the Foreign Service in 1985 and has served at U.S. Missions in Saudi Arabia, Yemen, Tunisia, Syria, and as Principal Officer in Adana, Turkey. She received a B.S. from Vanderbilt University, an M.A. from the University of Kentucky, and an M.S. from the National War College.
Alexander M. Laskaris, Nominee for Ambassador to the Republic of Guinea, Department of State
Alexander M. Laskaris, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Counselor, is Consul General at the U.S. Consulate in Erbil, Iraq, a position he has held since June 2010. Previously, he was the Team Leader for the Provincial Reconstruction Team in Mosul, Iraq from 2008 to 2009. Prior to serving in Iraq, he was the Deputy Chief of Mission at the U.S. Embassy in Kosovo (2006-2009) and Burundi (2003-2005). Previously, Mr. Laskaris was a member of the U.S. Secretary of State's Policy Planning Staff (2001-2003) and Advisor to the U.S. Mission to the United Nations (1999-2001). Other overseas assignments have included Political Officer in Luanda, Angola; Political and Economic Officer in Gaborone, Botswana; and Vice Consul in Monrovia, Liberia. From 1996 to 1997, he served as Desk Officer for Rwanda and Burundi at the Department of State. He received a B.S. from Georgetown University and an M.A. from the U.S. Army War College.
Allison M. Macfarlane, Nominee for Commissioner, Nuclear Regulatory Commission, and upon appointment to be designated Chair
Allison M. Macfarlane is an associate professor of Environmental Science and Policy at George Mason University (GMU), a position she has held since 2006. Dr. Macfarlane served as a member of the Blue Ribbon Commission on America's Nuclear Future from March 2010 to January 2012. Dr. Macfarlane worked as a research associate at Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) from 2004 to 2006 and 2000 to 2003, and as an associate professor at the Georgia Institute of Technology from 2003 to 2004. She was also a fellow at Harvard University's Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs from 1998 to 2000, and a fellow at Stanford University's Center for International Security and Cooperation from 1997 to 1998. Dr. Macfarlane began her teaching career in the Department of Geography and Earth Systems Science at GMU. She received a B.Sc. from the University of Rochester and a Ph.D. in Geology from MIT.
Ambassador Marcie B. Ries, Nominee for Ambassador to the Republic of Bulgaria, Department of State
Ambassador Marcie B. Ries, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Career-Minister, is currently Deputy Assistant Secretary of State in the Bureau of Arms Control, Verification and Compliance. From 2008 to 2009, she was Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for European and Eurasian Affairs. Previously, she served as Minister-Counselor for Political-Military Affairs at the U.S. Embassy in Baghdad (2007-2008), U.S. Ambassador to the Republic of Albania (2004-2007), and Chief of Mission at the U.S. Office in Pristina, Kosovo (2003-2004). She has also served as Director of the Office of United Nations Political Affairs in the Bureau of International Organizations (2001-2003) and as Political Counselor at the U.S. Embassy in London (1996-2000). Other overseas assignments include posts to the U.S. Mission to the European Union in Brussels; Ankara, Turkey; and Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic. She received a B.A. from Oberlin College and an M.A. from the School of Advanced International Studies at Johns Hopkins University.
Walter M. Shaub, Jr., Nominee for Director, Office of Government Ethics
Walter M. Shaub, Jr. is Deputy General Counsel of the U.S. Office of Government Ethics (OGE), a position he has held since 2008. In addition, he served as a supervisory attorney at OGE from 2006 to 2008. From 2004 to 2006, he worked as an attorney with the law firm Shaw, Bransford, Veilleux and Roth, P.C., where he focused on federal employment law. Previously, Mr. Shaub served as a staff attorney at several federal agencies, including OGE from 2001 to 2004, the Central Office of the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) from 2000 to 2001, the Office of General Counsel of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services from 1998 to 2000, and the VA's Baltimore-Washington Regional Counsel's office from 1997 to 1998. He earned a B.A. in History from James Madison University and a J.D. from American University Washington College of Law.
President Obama announced his intent to appoint the following individuals to key Administration posts:
Fred P. Hochberg, Appointee for Member, Board of Trustees of the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars
Fred P. Hochberg is President of the Export-Import Bank of the United States, having been appointed by President Obama in May 2009. From 2004 to 2008, Mr. Hochberg was Dean of Milano, The New School for Management and Urban Policy in New York, N.Y. From 1998 to 2001, he served first as Deputy Administrator, then as Acting Administrator of the Small Business Administration (SBA). Prior to his service at SBA, Mr. Hochberg was President and Chief Operating Officer of the Lillian Vernon Corporation. He is a past board member of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, the Citizens Budget Commission, the Foundation for International Community Assistance, and the New York State Financial Control Board. Mr. Hochberg received his B.A. from New York University and an M.B.A from Columbia University.
Earl W. Stafford, Appointee for Member, President's Board of Advisors on Historically Black Colleges and Universities 
Earl W. Stafford is Chief Executive Officer of The Wentworth Group, LLC, a position he has held since February 2009. Mr. Stafford is also Chairman of The Stafford Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization he founded in 2002. From 1988 to 2009 he was Chairman and Chief Executive of Universal Systems & Technology, Inc. Previously, Mr. Stafford served in the United States Air Force from 1967 to 1987. He currently serves on the boards of several organizations, including the Horatio Alger Association, the Joint Center for Political and Economic Studies, the Wesley Theological Seminary, and the Venture Philanthropy Partners. Mr. Stafford holds a B.B.A. from the University of Massachusetts, Amherst and an M.B.A. from Southern Illinois University. He is a graduate of the Owner/President Management Executive Program at Harvard Business School, and received an honorary Doctorate of Humane Letters from Virginia State University.
  