
    Sanders announces a slate of endorsements from elected officials in the Granite State
MANCHESTER, NH - U.S. Sen. Bernie Sanders' campaign announced a slate of endorsements today from elected officials in New Hampshire. The endorsements, announced nearly nine months before the state's primary, demonstrates the growing support for Sanders' presidential run.
Bernie 2020 New Hampshire State Director, Joe Caiazzo, said:"We are grateful for the support of these elected leaders from across New Hampshire. They will play a crucial role in our grassroots campaign in their communities and throughout the Granite State."
The slate of endorsements includes:

Alderman at-Large Brandon Laws, City of Nashua - Representing all 9 wards in the City of Nashua, Alderman Laws was first elected in 2017.
Representative Josh Adjutant, (Ashland) Grafton - District 17: Representing the towns of Alexandria, Ashland, Bridgewater, Bristol, Enfield, and Grafton, Rep. Adjutant was first elected in 2018 and serves on the State-Federal Relations and Veterans Affairs Committee.
Representative Mark King, (Nashua) Hillsborough - District 33: Representing Ward 6 in the City of Nashua, Rep. King was first elected in 2016 and serves on the Fish and Game and Marine Resources Committee.
Representative Skip Cleaver, (Nashua) Hillsborough - District 35: Representing Ward 8 in the City of Nashua, Rep. Cleaver was first elected in 2016 and serves on the Transportation Committee.
Representative Tim Smith, (Manchester) Hillsborough - District 17: Representing Ward 10 in the City of Manchester, Rep. Smith was first elected in 2012 and serves on the Legislative Administration Committee.
Representative Catherine Sofikitis, (Nashua) Hillsborough - District 34: Representing Ward 7 in the City of Nashua, Rep. Sofikitis was first elected in 2016 and serves on the Environment and Agriculture Committee.
Representative Ellen Read, (Newmarket) Rockingham - District 17: Representing the towns of Newfields and Newmarket, Rep. Read was first elected in 2016 and serves on the Fish and Game and Marine Resources Committee.
Representative Art Ellison, (Concord) Merrimack - District 27: Representing Wards 1,2,3,4,6, and 7 in the City of Concord, Rep. Ellison was first elected in 2016 and serves on the Education Committee.
Representative Cam Kenney, (Durham) Strafford - District 6: Representing the town of Durham, Rep. Kenney was first elected in 2018, and serves on the Judiciary Committee.

  