
    Pool Reports by Tyler Pager, The Washington PostNote: The reporter continued the numbering sequence started on the previous day.Reports #1 through 4 can be found by clicking here.



Sent:
Reports:




May 18, 202316:03 JST

Out-of-town Pool Report #5: Wheels down in Japan
AF1 was wheels down at Marine Corps Air Station Iwakuni at 3:58 pm local time
No visitors to the press cabin on the flight over to Japan.



May 18, 202316:17 JST

Out-of-town Pool Report #6: POTUS arrival
POTUS walked down the steps of AF1 at 4:14 pm and shook hands with the officials listed below. Secretary of State Tony Blinken followed behind POTUS.
We are headed to a greeting with troops.
From the White House:
Greeting the President upon arrival to Marine Corps Air Station Iwakuni, Japan
Yamada Kenji, Japanese State Minister of Foreign AffairsRahm Emanuel, Ambassador of the United States to JapanColonel Richard Rusnok, Commanding Officer Marine Corps Air Station IwakuniSergeant Major Adam M. Gharati, MCAS Senior Enlisted AdvisorYoshihiko Fukuda, Mayor of Iwakuni CityRear Admiral Takuhiro Hiragi, Commander, Fleet Air Wing 31, Japan Maritime Self Defense ForceDirector General Manabu Imakyurei, Director General, Chugoku-Shikoku Defense Bureau, Ministry of Defense



May 18, 202316:42 JST

Out-of-town Pool Report #7: Greeting with troops
POTUS entered an airport hangar at 4:19 pm to loud applause from about 400 American and Japanese troops gathered inside.
POTUS made very brief remarks, but the pool was stationed too far away and there was music playing so we could not make out what he said.
POTUS then walked along the barricade to shake hands and take selfies with the troops.
Pool was escorted out of the hangar at 4:40 just as POTUS was leaving. We are headed to the helos.
On background from a White House spokesperson:
One of the reasons Bruce Reed is traveling with POTUS on the foreign trip is because he has been an integral part of the negotiations with Congress so he will be part of the team updating POTUS on the status of the talks.



May 18, 202316:49 JST

Out-of-town Pool Report #8: Departure from air base
Pool did not see POTUS board or take off from M1 but the press helo was wheels up at 4:48 en route to Hiroshima
From the White House:
Traveling with the President aboard Marine One en route to Hiroshima Heliport Landing Zone, Hiroshima, Japan:
Secretary Antony Blinken, Department of StateJake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security AffairsJen O'Malley Dillon, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff



May 18, 202317:14 JST

Out-of-town Pool Report #9: Hiroshima arrival
Pool did not see M1 land but POTUS walked out of the helicopter at 5:09 pm and entered the Beast.
Motorcade started rolling at 5:12 to Rihga Royal Hotel Hiroshima for bilat with Japanese PM.
From the White House:
Traveling with the President via motorcade en route to Rihga Royal Hotel Hiroshima, Hiroshima, Japan:
Rahm Emmanuel, Ambassador of the United States to JapanSecretary Antony Blinken, Department of StateJake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security AffairsJen O'Malley Dillon, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of StaffBruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of StaffAnnie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President & Director of Oval Office OperationsKarine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press SecretaryAmbassador Rufus Gifford, Chief of ProtocolMike Pyle, Deputy National Security Advisor for International Economic AffairsRyan Montoya, Deputy Assistant to the President & Director of Scheduling & AdvanceKurt Campbell, Deputy Assistant to the President & National Security Council Coordinator for the Indo-PacificEdgard Kagan, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for East Asia and Oceania



May 18, 202317:48 JST

Out-of-town Pool Report #10: Arrival at hotel
After an uneventful drive, the motorcade arrived at the Rihga Royal Hotel Hiroshima at 5:46 pm.



May 18, 202318:25 JST

Out-of-town Pool Report #11: bilat spray
POTUS arrived outside a hotel ballroom at 5:59 pm and greeted PM Kishida. The two shook hands and posed for a photo.
POTUS thanked the PM for welcoming him to Japan and then whispered something to him and laughed.
The two leaders entered the bilat room and the pool briefly held outside while the leaders sat down.
The pool was brought into the room at 6:02 PM.
POTUS was seated in between Jake Sullivan and Tony Blinken.
PM Kishida spoke first, welcoming POTUS to his hometown and to the G7. Through a translator, he said the US and Japan have a "strong relationship not only in the area of security" but "strong cooperation in all areas."
He said the US-Japanese relationship "has evolved by leaps and bounds."
He noted that Micron is doing research in Hiroshima and Japan is planning for a global startup campus in Tokyo in partnership with MIT.
POTUS then spoke and accidentally referred to Kishida as "Mr. President."
As always, please check quotes against transcript.
"Thank you for hosting the G7 summit here. Under Japan's leadership, we've already delivered progress on the G7 agenda this year, and I'm looking forward to our meetings in the days ahead. As you said back in January when you were at the White House… we face one of the most complex environments in recent history, security environments, and I couldn't agree more. And I'm proud that the United States and Japan are facing it together."
"We stand up for the shared values including supporting the people Ukraine as they defend their sovereign territory and holding Russia accountable for its brutal aggression … to ensuring a free and open Indo Pacific."
"It seems to me we're deepening our cooperation on emerging technologies including new partnership between the United States and Japanese companies, and as you mentioned in universities as well, in areas like quantum computing and semiconductors."
"I want to thank you for Japan's commitment increase in investment in these areas. The bottom line Mr. Prime Minister is that when our countries stand together, we stand stronger, and I believe the whole world is safer when we do."
POTUS ignored shouted questions about default
The pool was escorted out of the bilat at 6:06 p.m. and is holding.
From the White House:
The President is participating in a bilateral meeting with Prime Minister Kishida Fumio of Japan.
U.S. ManifestThe PresidentT.H. Rahm Emanuel, Ambassador of the United States to JapanT.H. Antony Blinken, Secretary of StateT.H. Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security AffairsT.H. Jen O'Malley Dillon, Assistant to the President and Deputy Chief of StaffT.H. Mike Pyle, Deputy Assistant to the President and Deputy National Security Advisor for International EconomicsT.H. Kurt Campbell, Deputy Assistant to the President and Coordinator for the Indo-Pacific, National Security Council
Japan ManifestH.E. Prime Minister Kishida Fumio of JapanH.E. Mr. Hayashi Yoshimasa, Minister for Foreign Affairs of JapanMr. Kihara Seiji, Deputy Chief Cabinet SecretaryMr. Akiba Takeo, National Security AdvisorH.E. Mr. Tomita Koji, Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of Japan to the United States of AmericaMr. Yamada Shigeo, Senior Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs



May 18, 202319:19 JST

Out-of-town Pool Report #12: motorcade rolling
Motorcade started rolling from the Riggs Royal Hotel at 7:18 pm. We did not see POTUS leave the hotel.



May 18, 202319:38 JST

Out-of-town Pool Report #13: lid
The motorcade arrived at the RON at 7:31
A lid was called at 7:34
Thanks to co-pooler Courtney Subramanian for help today.




  