
    First Lady Jill Biden will travel to Ecuador, Panamá, and Costa Rica from May 18 - May 23, 2022 in advance of the U.S.-hosted Summit of the Americas that will take place in Los Angeles the week of June 6-10, 2022. During her trip, the First Lady will emphasize the importance of the U.S. partnership with these three nations as well as their commitment to democracy.
The First Lady will depart the United States for Quito, Ecuador on the afternoon of Wednesday, May 18. In the evening, she will meet with U.S. embassy staff at the U.S. embassy in Quito.
On Thursday, May 19, the First Lady will meet with President Guillermo Lasso and First Lady María de Lourdes Alcívar de Lasso of Ecuador at the Carondelet Palace. The two first ladies will also visit a child development center and learn more about the Government of Ecuador's efforts on childhood nutrition, a priority of the First Lady of Ecuador. Afterwards, the first ladies will return to the Carondelet Palace where Dr. Biden will deliver remarks.
Later, the First Lady will visit an elementary school that is hosting a U.S.-supported accelerated learning program that helps Ecuadorian, Venezuelan, and Colombian teenagers – who were previously out of school – rejoin the formal school system.
On Friday, May 20, the First Lady will depart Quito for Panama City, Panamá. In Panama City, she will meet with the First Lady of Panamá, Yazmin Colón de Cortizo, at the Presidential Palace. The first ladies will also visit a local school to learn more about Mrs. Cortizo's "See and Hear to Learn" program, which provides eye and hearing exams – and eyeglasses and hearing aids, as needed – to students.
In the evening, the First Lady will meet with U.S. embassy staff at the U.S. embassy in Panama City.
On Saturday, May 21, the First Lady will visit The Good Samaritan Home, a shelter which houses those living with HIV/AIDS and assists with their care. She will spend time with individuals who are served by The Good Samaritan Home and benefit from HIV/AIDS relief programs funded through the United States' President's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR) initiative. The Good Samaritan Home, which has been working in Panamá since 1998, is a non-governmental organization connected to the Catholic Church.
Afterwards, the First Lady will depart Panama City, for San José, Costa Rica.
In San José, the First Lady will travel to the Chief of Mission Residence where she will address and visit with Costa Rican women who have participated in U.S. State Department programs focused on women's entrepreneurship and economic empowerment. Afterwards, the First Lady will meet with President Rodrigo Chaves and First Lady Signe Zeikate.
On Sunday, May 22, the First Lady will visit the National Children's Hospital of Costa Rica to highlight U.S.– Costa Rican collaboration on combatting cancer and deliver remarks.
Afterwards, she will meet with U.S. embassy staff at the Chief of Mission Residence in San José.
On Monday, May 23, the First Lady will visit a community center supported through the Sembremos Seguridad, or "Planting the Seeds of Security," program. The program is led by the Costa Rican government with support from the U.S. Department of State. It aims to transform the security of local communities by working with local governments, NGOs, and law enforcement to provide prevention programs, including healthy outlets and safe spaces for Costa Rican youth.
Afterwards, the First Lady will depart San José for Joint Base Andrews.
  