
    President Donald J. Trump today announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key positions in his Administration:
Mark Andrew Green of Wisconsin to be Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development. Ambassador Mark Green is currently serving as President of the International Republican Institute (IRI), a nonpartisan, nonprofit organization dedicated to advancing citizen-responsive, citizen-centered governance around the world. In addition to his leadership of IRI, during 2011-16, he served on the Board of Directors of the Millennium Challenge Corporation. In 2007-09, he served as the U.S. Ambassador to Tanzania, and oversaw major programs in the areas of global health and economic development. Prior to his role as ambassador, Mr. Green represented Wisconsin's 8th District in the U.S. House of Representatives and served on the House Judiciary and International Relations Committees. He helped craft key policy initiatives like the Millennium Challenge Act and President George W. Bush's international AIDS program. He holds a law degree from the University of Wisconsin, a bachelor's degree from the University of Wisconsin–Eau Claire, and an honorary Doctor of Science from Georgetown University.
David J. Kautter of Virginia to be an Assistant Secretary of the Treasury, Tax Policy. If confirmed, Mr. Kautter will serve as Assistant Secretary of the Treasury for Tax Policy. Mr. Kautter currently serves as Partner-in-Charge of the Washington National Tax practice for RSM, an audit, tax, and consulting services firm. He was also previously the Managing Director of the Kogod Tax Center and Executive-in-Residence at the Kogod School of Business at American University (AU). Prior to his work at AU, Mr. Kautter spent over 30 years at Ernst and Young, including serving as Director of National Tax for over 13 years. Mr. Kautter also worked on Capitol Hill as Tax Legislative Counsel for former Senator John C. Danforth of Missouri. He is a high honors graduate of the University of Notre Dame and received his J.D. from Georgetown Law Center.
---
President Donald J. Trump Announces Intent to Appoint the Following Individuals to Key Administration Posts
President Donald J. Trump today announced his intent to appoint the following individuals to be members of the President's Commission on White House Fellowships:

R. J. Zlatoper of Hawaii
Richard H. Bagger of New Jersey

President Donald J. Trump today announced his intent to appoint the following individuals to be members of the Commission on Combating Drug Addiction and the Opioid Crisis:

Governor Chris Christie of New Jersey to be designated chair
Governor Roy Cooper of North Carolina
Governor Charlie Baker of Massachusetts
Former U.S. Representative Patrick J. Kennedy of Rhode Island
Bertha K. Madras of Massachusetts

President Donald J. Trump today announced his intent to appoint the following individual to be a member and chairperson of the United States Holocaust Memorial Council:

Howard Mark Lorber of New York, for the remainder of a five-year term expiring January 15, 2020

  