
    Pool Reports by Rob Crilly, Washington Examinerl



Sent:
Reports:




 May 26, 2020 11:13

 Pool report #1: Good morning 
Your restricted in-town pool is currently being tested. No news is good news, apparently.
We have a 2pm Press Secretary briefing followed by 4pm diabetes event in the Rose Garden.
Will let you know if anything changes. 


 May 26, 2020 12:15

 Pool report #2: Kudlow gaggle
Ric Grennel made his way up driveway but declined to answer questions.
Larry Kudlow stopped to speak after a TV hit.
When will unemployment be back below say 8%? This year? Next?"I don't want to make a forecast on employment. I think that this is the contraction quarter, this is what we've been saying. Very bad, very difficult. Employment down, unemployment up. Have to face that and it's a big hardship issue.On the other hand we are seeing now this is one of the reasons the stockmarket is rallying so well — a lot of evidence of the early signs of recovery. We are seeing it almost across the board, not quite, but almost across the board. Consumer confidence today was up a little bit but when you look at the six-month-ahead section it's almost twice or more than twice what it is for the current situation so people are probably looking down the road, they realise this is temporary and they believe they are going to go back to work and businesses will reopen. I think that's a big plus. I think the third quarter is going to be huge growth quarter, we agree with Congressional Budget Office, and the four the quarter —the whole second half — we're going to see a tremendous rebound, going to spill over into 2021"The president calls it transition to greatness. And he's rebuilt the economy once, with lower taxes and deregulation and better trade deals and I believe he can rebuild it a second time after the toll of this pandemic runs its course."
Why are markets doing so well when unemployment will be high for so long?"As I said the consumer confidence is improving, particularly the six months ahead."All the curves are flattening and moving downward, mortality and new cases. Second of all, a lot of talk about a speedy movement towards a vaccine, moving faster than these companies have ever done before. We've deregulated a lot to allow them to do that. We're partnering with the private sector, that's President Trump's philosophy"Also a lot of progress on therapies and medicines, which may surface this summer. That's a big plus."Then people see that the businesses are starting to reopen. We got 50 states in different phases of reopening and that's a plus. They are reading this story on the front page of the Wall Street Journal but there have been a number of these stories — I saw one in Politico where a good friend of mine from the other side agrees with us and the CBO — of a very strong third quarter and second half rebound."People see that. There's more travelling going on, more gas demand, very very strong housing demand. Some of the housing surveys were ahead of pre-pandemic. And businesses are opening"I think there's grounds for optimism. Hope and prayer plays a role. We've been through bloody hell on this, we know that. There's been a lot of hardship and heartbreak but I think our actions, the president's actions, the vice president's leadership, medical experts have done a terrific job, they've constructed this whole infrastructure on testing and equipment and therapies and vaccinations — it's remarkable — in just a couple of months. I give them a lot of credit.
Pay roll tax cut?"The president's very strong on it, very keen this time on the workforce side. We got it for the business side. He's very keen on it."
Tax deductions? Travel America tax credit, deducting entertainment expenses?"We haven't made up our mind on specifics yet. Right now, as you know, we are in the assessment or reassessment period. We'll surface with more concrete policies before long."All that's in play, that you mentioned. All these deductions are in play, payroll taxes in play absolutely."
Infrastructure spending in light of Michigan dam?"I honestly don't know, I don't want to get ahead of the curve on any of that. In the past the president has touted infrastructure spending, could be put to good use."
Impact of USMCA entering force on July 1?"Once the economies get on their feet you're going to see a lot of … a real pickup in trade. Canada and Mexico are very important trade partners. USMCA is by the way twice the trading activity, two-way trading, that China is, so my answer to you is yes, it's going to add quite a lot to GDP and jobs. Let's get through the virus first but yes I think it's going to be very… I think if the Chinese implement their side, I don't know that they will. But if they do we are going to see a big export boom there too. That's all pro-growth, pro-jobs"I think the president's negotiation of these trade deals is a big economic plus and we'll see more of that later in the year and next year." 


 May 26, 2020 13:30

 Pool report #3: lunch lid 
And we have a lunch lid until 2pm. 


 May 26, 2020 14:09

 Pool report #4: two minute warning to briefing 
The event will be livestreamed so pooler will endeavour to supply extra colour and details as merited. 


 May 26, 2020 14:12

 Pool report #5: Briefing under way 
Press Secretary entered the briefing room at 14:11. 


 May 26, 2020 15:52

 Pool report #6: rose garden 
https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44f... 


 May 26, 2020 16:04

 Pool report #7: Insulin Medicare announcement 
Judd Deere sends the following ahead of Rose Garden event:
Today, President Donald J. Trump will announce the exciting results of the Part D Senior Savings Model that will provide Medicare patients with new choices of Part D plans that offer insulin at an affordable and predictable cost of no more than $35 for a month's supply. Yet again, President Trump is delivering on his promise to protect older Americans and lower prescription drug prices. 


 May 26, 2020 16:14

 Pool report #7a: attendees 
Apologies. I truncated previous report with info from Judd Deere:
The following individuals are expected to attend: 
 The White House
President Donald J. Trump  Vice President Mike Pence  Kellyanne Conway, Assistant to the President and Senior Counselor  Brooke Rollins, Assistant to the President and Acting Director, Domestic Policy Council
Trump Administration
Seema Verma, Administrator, Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, HHSDr. Jerome Adams, Surgeon General
External Participants
Insulin Manufacturerso William (Bill) Sibold, President, Sanofi North Americao Douglas (Doug) Langa, Executive Vice President, Head of North America Operations and President of Novo Nordisk Inc.o David Ricks, Chairman and CEO, Eli Lilly and Companyo Steve Ubl, President and Chief Executive Officer, PhRMA
Health Insurers  o Dirk McMahon, CEO, UnitedHealthcare o Bruce Broussard, President and CEO, Humana Inc.  o Tim Wentworth, President, Express Scripts and Cigna Services  o Scott Serota, President and CEO, BCBSA  o Ceci Connelly, President and CEO, ACHP  o Matt Eyles, President and CEO, AHIP
Patient Advocacy Groups  o Tracey Brown, CEO, American Diabetes Association  o Bob Carlstrom, President, AMAC Action 


 May 26, 2020 16:30

 Pool report #8: Under way 
POTUS emerged from the Oval at 16:29 accompanied by VPOTUS who took up seat in front row. 


 May 26, 2020 17:15

 Pool report #9: Questions 
POTUS and guests spoke until 17:02. POTUS has been taking questions since then
Earlier, once again invited speakers spoke at a separate lectern, socially distanced from POTUS.
Most of the audience removed their masks during the presentation.
Tracey Brown of the American Diabetes Association was one of those who didn't and who kept it on when she took the stage to speak.
>From the administration we heard from VPOTUS - who said that on Monday 505 Americans died from Covid-19, the lowest number since March - and Seema Verma. 


 May 26, 2020 17:24

 Pool report #10: Wraps up 
POTUS left the podium at 17:22 after 20 minutes of questions.
Took questions on:ChinaForeign visasInsulinKlausutis tweetJoe Biden's maskTravel bansFlynn-Kislyak transcriptNorth Carolina Republican National ConventionMemorial Day crowdsMail-in voting 


 May 26, 2020 17:33

 Pool report #11: Travel photo lid
called at 17:32 



  