
    The following listing includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the White House Press Office and not included elsewhere in this issue.
May 3
The President met at Camp David, Md., with Secretary of Defense Harold Brown, Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs, David L. Aaron, Deputy Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs, and the following officials of the Department of State: Acting Secretary Warren M. Christopher, Secretary-designate Edmund S. Muskie, Ambassador at Large Henry D. Owen, Under Secretary for Political Affairs David D. Newsom, Under Secretary for Management Benjamin H. Read, W. Anthony Lake, Director, Policy Planning Staff, and Peter Tarnoff, Special Assistant to the Secretary and Executive Secretary of the Department.
May 5
The President returned to the White House from Camp David.
The President met at the White House with:
—Lord Carrington, British Secretary of State for Foreign and Commonwealth Affairs and Minister of Overseas Development;
—Frank B. Moore, Assistant to the President for Congressional Liaison;
—Vice President Walter F. Mondale;
—James T. Mcintyre, Jr., Director of the Office of Management and Budget;
—members of the Illinois General Assembly, to discuss ratification of the equal rights amendment.
In the afternoon, the President attended a White House reception in the Rose Garden for delegates to the 20th Mexico-United States Interparliamentary Conference.
The White House announced that the President will designate Mary F. Berry as Vice Chairman of the Civil Rights Commission upon her confirmation by the Senate. She was nominated to be a member of this Commission last month.
May 6
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—the congressional delegation from Florida, to discuss the Cuban and Haitian refugee situation;
—Mr. Moore;
—Vice President Mondale, Stansfield Turner, Director of Central Intelligence, Hamilton Jordan, Assistant to the President, and Dr. Brzezinski;
—David P. Reynolds, chairman of the board of the Reynolds Metals Co., and Ira Davidson, executive vice president of the Kaiser Aluminum & Chemical Corp.;
—Vice President Mondale, Paul Volcker, Chairman of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, Charles L. Schultze, Chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers, and Alfred E. Kahn, Advisor to the President on Inflation;
—Secretary-General Joseph M. A. H. Luns of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization;
—Ambassador Budimir Loncar of Yugoslavia.
The President announced that he will nominate Morris D. Busby, of Springfield, Va., for the rank of Ambassador when he is representing the United States at international conferences and meetings on fish and wildlife matters. Busby is Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for Oceans and Fisheries Affairs.
The President issued a declaration of a state of emergency in portions of the State of Florida severely affected by the influx of thousands of refugees. The President also has authorized the use of $10 million from his emergency fund under the Refugee Act to provide urgent relief through community organizations. The emergency declaration, as authorized under Public Law 93-288, authorizes the Federal Government to reimburse State and local governments for extraordinary costs incurred in responding to the emergency.
May 7
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Dr. Kahn;
—Helen Holliday, of St. Petersburg, Fla., the National Goodwill Graduate of 1980;
—Ann Howell, of Thibodaux, La., and Rick Douglas, of Wilton, Conn., the Multiple Sclerosis Society's 1980
Mother and Father of the Year;
—Mrs. Carter, for lunch.
May 8
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Mr. Moore;
—representatives of agricultural production industries;
—Senators Lawton Chiles of Florida and Sam Nunn of Georgia.
May 9
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Vice President Mondale, Secretary Brown, Secretary of State Edmund S. Muskie, Deputy Secretary of State Warren M. Christopher, Hedley W. Donovan, Senior Adviser to the President, Mr. Jordan, and Dr. Brzezinski.
The President announced that he has appointed John P. Condon to be the Representative of the United States on the South Pacific Commission. Condon is U.S. Ambassador to Fiji, the Kingdom of Tonga, and Tuvalu.
The President traveled to Philadelphia, Pa., where he addressed the World Affairs Council of Philadelphia and held a townhall meeting with area residents. The President then went to Camp David for the weekend.
The White House announced that the administration proposed an amendment to the 1980 budget to assist the United States Olympic Committee in launching a major fundraising drive. The proposal calls for an appropriation of $1 of Federal funds for every $2 that the Committee is able to raise from non-Federal sources. The maximum Federal contribution is $10 million.
  