
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Kevin Madden (857) 288-6400
Boston, MA – Today, Romney for President announced the additional Campus Chairs of "Iowa Students for Romney," a grassroots group that will inform their on-campus communities around the state about Governor Romney's plan to bring real change to Washington.
Together, these sixteen young leaders will serve as Students for Romney Campus Chairs at their respective colleges and universities around the state. Romney for President announced the formation of the first chapter at the University of Northern Iowa in March. Since that time, the organization has grown statewide.
"The hard work of these college and university students will play a pivotal role in the success of our grassroots organization," said Gentry Collins, Iowa Romney for President Campaign Manager. "They understand that Governor Romney is the only candidate putting forward specific proposals and ideas to keep the opportunity for prosperity alive for future generations. Each campus chair will organize fellow students and make sure their campus communities know that Governor Romney will successfully lead our nation to answers for the new generation of challenges we're facing."
Iowa Students For Romney Campus Chairs:
Donald Bladt (Cornell College, Chair): Bladt grew up on a farm outside of Shelby, Iowa. He is a sophomore Chemistry major, a member of the football team and a member of the Health Professions Society.
Tristan Cook (Cornell College, Co-Chair): Cook is a senior from Madison, Wisconsin. He is a double major in History and Psychology with a minor in American Politics. Prior to his involvement with "Students for Romney," he worked on Congressman Jim Leach's re-election campaign in 2006.
Phil Jeneary (Central College): Jeneary is a senior at Central College majoring in Political Science, and is from Le Mars, IA. He has interned with Senator Grassley in Washington, D.C., and has previously campaigned for President Bush, Senator Grassley, Congressman Steve King and gubernatorial candidate Jim Nussle.
Ashton Schmidt (Drake University): Schmidt is a sophomore at Drake University majoring in Marketing and minoring in Theatre. She is a graduate of Denison High School in Denison, Iowa. Schmidt is currently the publicity chair for the Drake Chapter of College Republicans.
Luke Martz (Iowa State University): Martz is from Muscatine, Iowa. He is 20 years old and studying Political Science at Iowa State University. He is an active member of the College Republicans and the Solar Car Team. He is also an FAA certified pilot.
Geoff Gustitus (Loras College): Gustitus is a junior at Loras College majoring in Political Science and Business. He is the chapter chair of the Loras College Republicans as well as the Dubuque Regional Coordinator for the Iowa Federation of College Republicans.
Colton Long (Luther College): Long is a sophomore majoring in both Political Science and Communications at Luther College. Colton has been involved in Iowa politics since he was a young child, and is a strong supporter of personal responsibility, fiscal conservatism, and national security at home and abroad.
Casandra Young (Morningside College, Chair): Young is a native of San Luis Obispo, California and is a Political Science and Mass Communication major at Morningside College. Young was recently elected president of Morningside College Republicans for the 2007-08 year. Young participates in Morningside Volleyball and received Academic Athletic Honors. She has participated in volunteer work with the King for Congress Campaign, Nussle for Governor and President Bush's visit in Le Mars in 2006.
Kathryn Kotlik (Morningside College, Co-Chair): Kotlik is a native of Bellevue, Nebraska and a junior Political Science and Spanish major at Morningside College. Kotlik was elected as the Vice President of Morningside College Republicans for the 2007-2008 year. Kotlik also participates on the Mock Trial team and the Mustang volleyball team. Kotlik worked on the King for Congress and Nussle for Governor campaigns this past year.
Amanda Allen (Northwestern College): Allen is a junior majoring in Political Science, with a French minor at Northwestern College in Orange City, IA. Originally from Lebanon, OR, Allen became active with College Republicans and volunteered for George W. Bush's reelection campaign in 2004. During her time at Northwestern, she has also been active in Sioux County Republican politics, as well as campaigning for Congressman Steve King and Jim Nussle in 2006.
Matt O'Brien (University of Dubuque): O'Brien was born and raised in Dubuque, Iowa. He is currently a sophomore at the University of Dubuque, majoring in Environmental Science. O'Brien plans to go to graduate school for soil science.
Ben Johnson (University of Iowa): Johnson started three Young Republicans clubs in his, and surrounding, high schools. He is the Past-Chairman of the Kirkwood College Republicans. He is the current Chairman of the statewide Iowa Federation of College Republicans. Johnson has worked for Grassley, Leach & Mayor Paul Pate.
Carrie Janura (University of Iowa): Carrie is a sophomore from Geneva, Illinois, and is majoring in Business and pursuing a minor in Law at The University of Iowa. Janura also volunteers with the Ronald McDonald House in Iowa City.
Melissa Mozingo (University of Northern Iowa): Mozingo, is a junior at UNI, majoring in International Marketing, and is a member of the American Marketing Association (AMA). Mozingo has been active in politics since high school.
Janna Carson (William Penn University): Carson is a freshman at WPU. She is involved in the following campus programs: Women's Soccer, Student Ambassador, Resident Assistant, William Penn University College Republican-Public Relations Director, and is the 2007-2008 Student Government Public Relations Director.
Michael Bahr (Ellsworth Community College): Bahr was born in Iowa Falls, IA and is a 2005 Graduate of Iowa Falls-Alden High School. He is currently a sophomore at Ellsworth Community College majoring in Political Science. At age 18 Bahr ran for City Council and lost to the incumbent by 9 votes. Bahr is currently a 2007 City Council Candidate.
  