
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

Transportation is an essential part of America -- its history, its culture, its security, and its progress. Our Nation's transportation system has not only enabled our citizens to enjoy unparalleled personal mobility but also encouraged the growth of industry and commerce, thereby strengthening our American heritage of freedom and prosperity.
The United States has always been a Nation on the move. From the sea lanes that served coastal towns and cities to the wagon trails and railroad lines forged across the frontier -- our transportation network made possible the settlement and development of America.
Amidst the strife of more recent wars, transportation has carried our armed forces to far-flung regions of the world and provided them with the materiel needed to defend our national interests. In each instance, millions of civilians in the transportation industry have assisted in the mobilization of our troops despite tremendous logistical challenges. Thus, transportation has played a key role in America's military preparedness, as well as in its social and economic development.
Even as we note the high levels of mobility and security that we enjoy today, we also recognize the need for continuing investments and improvements in American transportation. Efforts to strengthen our transportation infrastructure will create jobs and economic growth while enhancing the safety and efficiency of our roads, air routes, public transit systems, and waterways. This is the mandate set forth by the Intermodal Surface Transportation Efficiency Act of 1991, which I signed into law last year, and our commitment to its goals and to other objectives of our National Transportation Policy will help move us toward a bright future.
In recognition of the importance of transportation and of the millions of Americans who work to meet our transportation needs, the Congress, by joint resolution approved May 16, 1957 has requested that the third Friday in May of each year be designated as "National Defense Transportation Day" and, by joint resolution approved May 14, 1962 that the week in which that Friday falls be proclaimed "National Transportation Week."
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim Friday, May 15, 1992, as National Defense Transportation Day and the week of May 10 through May 16, 1992, as National Transportation Week. I urge all Americans to observe these occasions with appropriate ceremonies and activities that will give due recognition to the individuals and organizations that build, operate, safeguard, and maintain our transportation system. I ask that special recognition be extended to the men and women of the United States Department of Transportation, which celebrates its 25th anniversary this year.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set may hand this eleventh day of May, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-two, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and sixteenth.

GEORGE BUSH
  