
    Mr. President:
I am delighted to welcome you to the United States as the guest of the people of this Nation. I personally am happy to be able to renew our acquaintanceship, and to reciprocate the generous hospitality which you accorded me on my visit to Brazil in 1947. I sincerely hope that your stay in the United States will prove as enjoyable to you as my trip to your country was to me.
This is the first time a Brazilian chief of state has visited our country since Dom Pedro II attended the Centennial Exposition at Philadelphia in 1876. He captivated the people of the United States with his gracious manner and lively interest in the scientific and social developments that characterized that period of our history. I trust that you will find the contemporary scene equally interesting and significant.
The exchange of visits between the heads of state of Brazil and the United States symbolizes the cordial relations that have always existed between our two countries. Throughout the history of the two nations, our relationship has been one of warm friendship and mutual helpfulness. We have fought through two world wars as loyal allies. In peace and in war, Brazil and the United States have been secure in the knowledge that we could confidently rely upon the active and effective support of each other.
At the present time, when the world is still disturbed by fear and conflicting ideologies, it is gratifying to know that Brazil and the United States are exerting their constructive efforts in the common resolve to strengthen democracy and assure world peace under conditions in which freedom and human rights will flourish.
Mr. President, all of us in this country are honored by your visit as the Chief Executive of a great nation and a great people. You share with us the principles and ideals which have guided our countries in our progress toward a better life for our people.
I know that these ideals will continue to inspire us in our quest for peace and happiness for all mankind.
  