
    Pool Reports by Linda Feldmann, The Christian Science Monitor 



Sent:
Reports:




May 1, 202210:38

In-town pool report 1 - good morning
Good morning from the White House, and happy May Day and morning-after-WHCD. It's cloud/chilly (60 degrees).
Pool has gathered for POTUS liftoff on Marine One from south lawn, en route JBA then Minneapolis for the memorial service of former VPOTUS Walter Mondale.



May 1, 202210:49

In-town pool report #2 - M1 lifts off/travelers
Potus, dressed in dark suit, emerged from WH central portico at 10:44 am.
As he walked to M1, he was asked if he had talked to Speaker Pelosi.
"Not since she's landed" he said.
M1 lifted off from the South Lawn at 10:48.
Handing off to travel pool.
From the press office:Traveling with the President on Marine One to Joint Base Andrews:Ron Klain, Assistant to the President & Chief of StaffJake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security AffairsAnnie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office OperationsStephen Goepfert, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the President



May 1, 202213:34

In-town pool report #3 - POTUS spoke w/Pelosi
From the White House:
President Biden spoke with Speaker Pelosi today following her return to Poland to discuss her visit to Ukraine and her meeting with President Zelenskyy.



May 1, 202219:34

In-town pool report #3 - POTUS returns/lid
Marine One landed on the South Lawn at 7:29 pm.
POTUS emerged at 7:31 pm and walked straight into the White House thru the central portico. He started with a mask on, peeled it off part way across. Didn’t respond to shouted questions.
Travel/photo lid called at 7:32 pm.




 
Pool Reports below by Alex Gangitano, The Hill 



Sent:
Reports:




May 1, 202211:00 EDT

Travel pool report #1- Hello from JBA
Good morning from JBA and happy day after the WHCA dinner.
Marine One touched down at 10:56am and POTUS boarded Air Force One.
POTUS is traveling to Minneapolis, Minnesota to attend and deliver remarks at the memorial service of Vice President Walter Mondale. The service is at the Northrop Memorial Auditorium at University of Minnesota.



May 1, 202211:11 EDT

Travel pool #2- wheels up
Air Force One was wheels up at 11:10am, heading to Minnesota.



May 1, 2022
[APP Note: Report #3 does not exist or was not received by the APP.]


May 1, 202212:51 CDT

Travel pool report #4- arrival at MSP
POTUS landed at Minneapolis-St. Paul International Airport (MSP) at 12:37pm CDT.
He spent several minutes speaking with his greeters on the tarmac. We are rolling to the University of Minnesota.
Passing along from the WH-
Upon arrival at MSP, the President will be greeted by

Colonel Kenneth Rose, Commander, 934th Maintenance Group
Chief Master Sergeant Jennifer L. Murphy, 934th Aircraft Maintenance Squadron

Greeting the President on the tarmac at MSP will be:

Tim Walz, Governor of Minnesota and his wife Gwen Walz
Melvin Carter, Mayor of Saint Paul and his wife Dr. Sakeena Futrell-Carter
Jacob Frey, Mayor of Minneapolis, and his wife Sarah Clarke




May 1, 2022
[APP Note: Report #5 does not exist or was not received by the APP.]


May 1, 202213:34 CDT

Travel pool #6- Biden spoke w/ Pelosi
Passing along from the White House—
President Biden spoke with Speaker Pelosi today following her return to Poland to discuss her visit to Ukraine and her meeting with President Zelenskyy.



May 1, 202213:40 CDT

Travel pool report #7- program starts
POTUS entered the Northrop Auditorium, Carlson Family Stage at the University of Minnesota at 1:39pm to applause and took a seat on the far end of the front row. The Mondale memorial service has started with remarks from Gov. Walz.
Passing along from the White House--
The funeral program is scheduled to proceed as follows:
- Minnesota Governor Tim Walz delivers remarks welcoming guests and reflecting on Vice President Mondale's southern Minnesota values.
- University of Minnesota President John Gabel moves to the stage and delivers remarks welcoming guests to the University of Minnesota.
- Larry Jacobs delivers remarks.
- Reverend Tim Hart-Andersen delivers remarks.
- A video plays of Josie Johnson delivering remarks.
- Senator Tina Smith delivers remarks including a eulogy from President Jimmy Carter and a statement from President Clinton.
- Jon Meacham moves to the stage and delivers remarks.
- Senator Amy Klobuchar delivers remarks
- POTUS deliver remarks on his friendship with Vice President Mondale.
- Theodore and William Mondale deliver remarks.
- Lillian Hochman and Phillip Brunelle perform "Tomorrow" from the musical Annie.
- The University of Minnesota Marching Band move to the stage and perform the Minnesota Rouser.



May 1, 202214:31 CDT

Travel pool report #8- on Pelosi call/program info
Passing along--
The earlier statement on the President’s call to Speaker Pelosi is attributable to a White House Official.
And a reminder that Biden's remarks will be live-streamed so I will not be sending quotes. They are coming up after Sen. Klobuchar's remarks.
Let me know any questions!



May 1, 202215:27 CDT

Travel pool report #9- rolling out
The motorcade is rolling out of the University of Minnesota as of 3:35pm. The pool did not see POTUS exit the building.
Biden spoke at the Mondale memorial service for about 27 minutes.
Also to note, the guidance from the White House that I passed along spelled the University of Minnesota president’s name wrong. Her name is Joan Gabel.



May 1, 202216:11 CDT

Travel pool report #10- wheels up
Biden arrived at MSP at 3:49pm and went inside the airport to greet people before boarding. It’s now rainy and still chilly in Minneapolis.
Biden emerged at 3:57pm and the pool shouted "are you going to Ukraine?" and someone asked about when he’s going to decide about forgiving student debt.
He pointed his hand ahead as his response and he boarded the plane.
Pool saw National security adviser Jake Sullivan take a photo with Sen. Amy Klobuchar on the tarmac.
"Welcome to Minnesota, it is balmy!" Klobuchar said to a very cold, wind blown pool before boarding Air Force One.
We are wheels up at 4:10pm.



May 1, 202216:13 CDT

Travel pool report #11- traveling with
Passing along--
Travelling with the President en route JBA :
Guests:Amy Klobuchar, U.S. Senator (MN)Norm Ornstein, Emeritus Scholar at the American Enterprise InstituteJon Meacham, Canon Historian of the Washington National Cathedral
Staff:Ron Klain, Assistant to the President and Chief of StaffJake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security AffairsAnnie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office OperationsStephen Goepfert, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the PresidentTravis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip DirectorMeghan Hays, Special Assistant to the President & Director of Message PlanningKaitlyn Demers, Special Assistant to the President & Chief of Staff for the Office of Legislative Affairs



May 1, 202219:05 EDT

Travel pool #12- wheels down
We are wheels down at JBA at 7:03pm EST after an uneventful flight.
From the White House-
Also traveling with the President:
Stu Eizenstat, Special Advisor on Holocaust Issues at U.S. Department of State




  