
    Pool Reports by Niels Lesniewski, CQ Roll Call 



Sent:
Reports:




November 15, 202117:09

VP virtual pool #1 -- remarks to Declaration for American Democracy
I was the print pooler for Vice President Harris delivering brief virtual remarks to a quarterly meeting of the Declaration for American Democracy coalition.
The VP was speaking about civil rights and specifically voting rights, renewing the call for Congress to pass the Freedom to Vote Act and the John Lewis Voting Rights Advancement Act.
The remarks started at 5:01 p.m., which your pooler joined via Zoom. The remarks concluded at 5:06 p.m.
Quotes to follow.



November 15, 202117:36

VP virtual pool #2 -- quotes from remarks
The VP began by thanking leaders of the Declaration for American Democracy coalition, discussing the benefits of the "inside-outside process" to get things done. She noted there are 240+ organizations involved.
"To the credit of a lot of the folks who are part of this meeting, in 2020 more Americans voted than ever before. And what a beautiful sight that was to see. Then, of course, in 2021, states across our nation started passing anti-voter laws. And you all know, the purpose of these laws is no secret. They are in reaction to the 2020 turnout. They are an extension of what has been referred to as The Big Lie," Harris said.
"We must repeat the facts over and over so everyone is really clear: there was not rampant fraud. The people voted, the people voted. The results were certified by state after state and reaffirmed by court after court."
"And still this year 33 anti-voter laws have been passed in 19 states. These laws are designed to make it more difficult for people to vote so that they won't vote. They are designed so that when people do vote, their vote might not be counted in a fair and transparent process. And all of this is why Congress must pass the Freedom to Vote Act and the John Lewis Voting Rights Advancement Act. As you all know, the combination of these bills would set a basic standard for voting that puts a stop to obstructionist tactics. These bills would help make sure that all voters no matter where they live, can vote and have their vote counted. And you know, thus far, sadly, nearly every Senate Republican has refused to even debate these two bills. But I want to be very clear, their unwillingness will not stop our will. And I know everyone here knows we must not give up. We must not give in and we have to keep fighting."
She did not make any news on what the next steps in the Senate may actually be, in terms of process. The VP then highlighted meetings she has had on voting rights.
"I've ... convened meetings with activists and advocates and local policymakers and elections officials, young people who are making sure that their peers know that their vote matters. Poll workers who are committed to serve despite fear of harassment, Native voters who have to travel miles and hours to make their voices heard. Voters with disabilities who have to overcome incredible structural obstacles to cast their ballot. In fact, one such voter told me I quote 'being able to vote is a cornerstone of what it means to be part of a community.' The right to vote is a cornerstone of our communities, the right to vote is the cornerstone of our democracy," the VP said.
The VP called on the attendees to continue the work, while acknowledging that sometimes "we can get a bit tired" in the long "process of fighting for civil rights, human rights, social justice."
"And we know that while we are in these positions, having been in this long relay race for the fight for civil rights and equality and justice, while we are the ones who have been handed the baton, we must do everything we can while we possess it, before we pass it on to the next one, to make sure that on this issue of voting that we protect, and we stand for all people's right to be able to have and express their constitutional right to vote."
As always, check these long quotes against the official transcript. This concludes the VP virtual pool coverage for the night.




  