
    The Rudy Giuliani Presidential Committee today unveiled additional members of Rudy Giuliani's Justice Advisory Committee.
The Committee is chaired by former U.S. Solicitor General Ted Olson and is comprised of some of America's leading conservative scholars and practicing attorneys, many of whom Rudy Giuliani has known since his time serving as Associate Attorney General in Ronald Reagan's Justice Department.
"From his remarkable tenures as Associate Attorney General, U.S. Attorney and Mayor, Rudy Giuliani knows the importance of judges with a keen respect for the Tenth Amendment, for federalism, and for state and local authority," said Nicholas Quinn Rosenkranz, Associate Professor of Law at Georgetown University and a member of the Board of Visitors of the Federalist Society. "I believe that he would appoint judges like Scalia, Thomas, Alito, and Roberts--who apply the law as written, who know the meaning of judicial restraint, and who know that the People, and not the judges, have the power to change the Constitution."
Members will advise Rudy Giuliani on a wide range of legal and policy issues including judicial appointments, tort reform and reducing frivolous lawsuits in our country.
Justice Advisory Committee Additions:
Lillian BeVier
BeVier has taught constitutional law, real property, and torts since coming to the University of Virginia in 1973. At Stanford Law School, BeVier was revising editor for the Stanford Law Review and a member of the Order of the Coif. Previously, she was an associate professor of law at the University of Santa Clara Law School and practiced law with Spaeth Blase Valentine & Klein in Palo Alto, California. Additionally, BeVier served as research associate to Professor William F. Baxter at Stanford University Law School, was an assistant to the general secretary and assistant staff legal counsel for Stanford University.
Randy Evans
Randy Evans served as the outside counsel to the Speakers of the 104th through the 109th Congresses of the United States – Speakers Newt Gingrich and Dennis Hastert. He chairs the companies of Newt Gingrich and former House Republican Conference Chairman J.C. Watts. Evans is the General Counsel of the Georgia Republican Party and a member of the five-person Georgia State Election Board. He represents a host of well-known public officials including Senators, Members of Congress, Governors, and state elected officials. Evans is a partner at McKenna, Long & Aldridge where he chairs the Financial Institutions practice. He has been recognized in various publications as one of the "Best Lawyers In America" and one of Georgia's "most influential people."
John McGinnis McGinnis, a scholar in the areas of constitutional and international law, served as Deputy Assistant Attorney General in the Office of Legal Counsel at the Department of Justice under Presidents Ronald Reagan and George H.W. Bush. In addition, he clerked for the Honorable Kenneth W. Starr when he served on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia. McGinnis has been appointed chairman of the government's advisory committee on free trade agreements and labor standards. The Office of the U.S. Trade Representatives also has added him to the roster of Americans who can be appointed as panelists to resolve World Trade Organization disputes. He is a past winner of the Paul Bator Award given by the Federalist Society to an outstanding academic under 40. He contributes regularly to both law reviews and popular journals.
Edward R. Reines
Reines is a partner at Weil, Gotshal & Manges LLP where he practices technology litigation and is nationally recognized as a leader in patent law. He is President of the Bar Association of the Federal Circuit Court of Appeals and is a member of its Board of Governors. Additionally, Reines serves on the Advisory Committee to the Federal Circuit, the Patent Rules Advisory Committee for the United States District Court for the Northern District of California and the Amicus Committee of the AIPLA. He has testified before Congress repeatedly on patent issues and his trial practice has involved a plaintiff win involving Nobel Prize winning technology and a defense win identified as a top defense win of 2005 by the California Daily Journal. Currently, Reines teaches patent litigation at the University of California, Berkeley. In 1988, he received his J.D. from Columbia Law School with honors.
Gerald A. Reynolds
Reynolds serves as Assistant General Counsel at Kansas City Power & Light Company. Previously, Reynolds was the Deputy Associate Attorney General in the U.S. Department of Justice providing strategic advice on matters ranging from terrorism-related litigation to spent fuel litigation. He also provided oversight for several litigation components within the Department's Civil Division, including consumer protection and immigration. In 2002, President George W. Bush appointed him Assistant Secretary of Education for the Office for Civil Rights. Further, Reynolds has served as President for the Center for New Black Leadership, worked as a legal analyst for the Center for Equal Opportunity and practiced law at Schatz & Schatz, Ribicoff & Kotkin. He has authored articles on several public policy issues and has edited a book on the criminal justice system. Reynolds received his law degree from Boston University School of Law, where he sat on the editorial board of the American Journal of Law and Medicine.
Nicholas Quinn Rosenkranz
Nicholas Quinn Rosenkranz is an Associate Professor of Law at Georgetown University and a member of the Board of Visitors of the Federalist Society. Before teaching, he served for several years in the federal government, first as law clerk to Judge Frank H. Easterbrook on the U.S. Court of Appeals; next as law clerk to Justice Anthony M. Kennedy at the U.S. Supreme Court; and then as Attorney-Advisor at the Office of Legal Counsel in the U.S. Department of Justice. Rosenkranz began his career as a constitutional scholar by publishing his first two articles in the Harvard Law Review and his third piece in the Stanford Law Review. He has also testified as an expert before the Senate Judiciary Committee, the House Judiciary Committee, and the House Judiciary Subcommittee on the Constitution. Rosenkranz is a member of the New York Bar and the U.S. Supreme Court Bar. And he is a graduate of Yale College and Yale Law School.
Ronald D. Rotunda
Rotunda is a university professor and professor of law at George Mason University who teaches constitutional law and legal ethics. He has authored several treatises that are among the most widely cited modern authorities on constitutional law and procedure and professional ethics. He was ranked 17th highest in the nation according to the 2000 University of Chicago Press study examining the influence, productivity and reputations of law professors over the last several decades. A magna cum laude graduate of Harvard Law School, Professor Rotunda served as a member of the Harvard Law Review and later clerked for Judge Walter R. Mansfield of the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit. He also served as assistant majority counsel for the Watergate Committee, and from 1993 to 2002 he was the Albert E. Jenner, Jr. Professor of Law at the University of Illinois.
Jon A. Sale Sale, a prominent Florida attorney at Sale & Weintraub, P.A., is a graduate of New York University Law School and a former federal prosecutor. Currently, he is an adjunct professor at St. Thomas University Law School in Miami Gardens, Florida, and previously taught law at Nova Southeastern Law School of Ft. Lauderdale. Sale joined Mayor Giuliani's Florida campaign team as a Senior Counselor and also serves on the Mayor's Miami-Dade County leadership team.
Justice Advisory Committee Existing Members:
Chairman of Justice Advisory Committee: Ted Olson, former Solicitor General of the United States
Members:
Miguel Estrada, former Assistant to the Solicitor General of the United States
Steven Calabresi, Co-Founder of the Federalist Society
Larry Thompson, former Deputy Attorney General of the United States
Charles Fried, former Solicitor General of the United States Carol Dinkins, former Deputy Attorney General of the United States
Maureen Mahoney, former Deputy Solicitor General of the United States
Doug Cox, former Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General of the United States Marc Mukasey, former Assistant U.S. Attorney
Dan Webb, former U.S. Attorney for the Northern District of Illinois
Bart Schwartz, former Chief of the Criminal Division, U.S. Attorney's Office for the Southern District of New York
Ron Cass, former Dean, Boston University School of Law
Jason Barclay, former Counsel and Policy Director to Governor Mitch Daniels (R-IN)
Randy Mastro, former Deputy Mayor of New York City
Howard Wilson, former Commissioner of Investigation for New York City
Daniel Rodriguez, former Dean, University of San Diego School of Law
George Priest, Professor of Law and Economics, Yale University
Walter Olson, Senior Fellow, Manhattan Institute
  