
    The following listing includes the President's daily schedule and other items of general interest as announced by the White House Press Office during the period covered by this issue. Events and announcements printed elsewhere in the issue are not included.
November 5
The President met at the White House with Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs.
The President has declared a major disaster for the State of Arizona as a result of severe storms and flooding, beginning about October 6, which caused extensive public and private property damage.
November 7
The President met at the White House with:--Dr. Brzezinski;--senior White House staff members;--the Cabinet;--Vice President Walter F. Mondale;--James T. Mcintyre, Jr., Acting Director of the Office of Management and Budget;--Secretary of the Treasury W. Michael Blumenthal.
The President attended a briefing on the Panama Canal treaties, given for State officials and business and political leaders from Alaska, Rhode Island, and Missouri in the State Dining Room.
The President declared a major disaster for the State of Georgia as a result of the collapse of an earthen dam backing up Kelley Barnes Lake and the resultant flooding beginning on November 6, which caused extensive public and private property damage.
November 8
The President met at the White House with:--Dr. Brzezinski;--former Prime Minister Golda Meir of Israel;--Vice President Mondale, Adm. Stansfield Turner, Director of Central Intelligence, and Dr. Brzezinski;--Mrs. Carter, for lunch.
November 9
The President met at the White House with:--David L. Aaron, Deputy Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs;--members of the Congressional Black Caucus, Vice President Mondale, and Dr. Brzezinski;--Representative James C. Corman of California;--a group of administration officials to discuss national health insurance.
November 10
The President met at the White House with:--Dr. Brzezinski;--Vice President Mondale, Secretary Blumenthal, Mr. Mcintyre, Charles I,. Schultze, Chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers, and Arthur F. Burns, Chairman of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System;--Nikolay Aemenovich Patolichev, Minister of Foreign Trade of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics;--Secretary Blumenthal, Secretary of Energy James R. Schlesinger, Mr. Schultze, Ambassador Robert S. Strauss, Special Representative for Trade Negotiations, and a group of business leaders.
The President attended a briefing on the Panama Canal treaties, given for representatives of women's organizations in the State Dining Room.
The President has declared a major disaster for the State of North Carolina as a result of severe storms and flooding, beginning about November 4, which caused extensive public and private property damage.
November 11
The President met at the White House with:--Vice President Mondale, Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance, and Dr. Brzezinski;--Dr. Brzezinski;--Representative Harley O. Staggers of West Virginia;--Vice President Mondale and Mr. Schultze;--Mayor Abraham Beame of New York;--a group of editors, publishers, and broadcasters (transcript will be printed next week);--a group of economic and budget advisers for a budget review meeting.
  