
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

During this week that includes our traditional observance of Thanksgiving, Americans will pause in prayer to thank Almighty God for their many blessings -- in particular, for the gifts of life, home, and family. At a time when many of us enjoy being reunited with relatives and friends, it is fitting that we also remember the more than 40,000 children in the United States who long for loving, permanent homes and families of their own. These are children who wait to be adopted.
More than 50,000 children in the United States are adopted each year, and as any adult who has been blessed with an adopted child or grandchild well knows, these youngsters are as eager to give love and affection as they are to receive them. Yet, while adoption benefits everyone involved -- including the biological mother who, for whatever reason, cannot care for her child and offers him a chance at life in a secure, loving environment -- thousands of other children continue to wait. Among those who wait are children with special needs: older children, children with disabilities, members of minority groups, and children with siblings who must be adopted by the same family.
Early on in the Administration, I was pleased to propose legislation designed to encourage "special needs" adoption. Since that time, the Federal Government has continued to play a leading role in overcoming legal, financial, and attitudinal barriers to adoption. This week we salute the many dedicated men and women across America who make adoption work: concerned parents, social services professionals and counselors, State officials, attorneys, members of the clergy, and others. Recognizing that adoption is a tremendous act of courage and generosity under any circumstances, we salute especially each of the brave women who, when faced with a crisis pregnancy, chooses life for her unborn child and offers that child a chance to gorwn up in a stable, loving home.
As an unselfish, life-affirming, and lifelong commitment, adoption is rooted in the virtues that define and strengthen a family and that, in turn, enrich the lives of individuals and the communities in which they live. This week, let us acknowledge the importance of stable, loving families to children and to our Nation, and let us renew our support for adoption.
The Congress, by Public Law 102-174, has designated the week of November 22 through November 28, 1992, as "National Adoption Week" and has requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this week.
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the week of November 22 through November 28, 1992, as National Adoption Week. I urge all Americans to observe this week with appropriate programs and activities.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this tenth day of November, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-two, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and seventeenth.

GEORGE BUSH
  