
    Obama Discusses Plan to Reclaim American Dream on Day 4 of "Change We Can Believe in" Tour Across Iowa
Des Moines, IA -- Senator Barack Obama today hosted a roundtable with local women about his plan to reclaim the American Dream and discussed the challenges working women face. Obama's plan, unveiled this week in Bettendorf, includes guaranteeing paid sick days, expanding the Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA), supporting paid FMLA, and doubling funding for after-school programs.
"As the son of a single mother, I don't accept an America that forces women to choose between their kids and their careers," Obama said. "You shouldn't have less opportunity because you are a single mom. You shouldn't have to lose your wages or quit your job to care for a newborn baby, or a sick child, or an elderly parent. That's wrong for America's children, and American families. I'll be a President who stands up for the American family."
At today's roundtable discussion, Obama spoke with 8 Polk County working women and listened as they discussed the hardships they face while juggling their families and careers.
"We need a President who will stand up to the special interests in Washington and work across the aisle to make progress on the challenges working women face," roundtable participant Teresa Jones said. "Barack understands that women shouldn't have to face discrimination in the work place or chose between their children and their careers. As President, Barack will fight for women like me and that's why I'm working to elect him as the next President of the United States."
Obama's plan to reclaim the American Dream addresses the economic challenges women face by expanding FMLA to cover businesses with as few as 25 employees, allowing workers to take leave to care for elderly parents, and allowing parents up to 24 hours of annual leave to join school activities with their kids. Obama's plan also doubles funding for after-school programs, which would reach 300,000 Iowa children and give families the child care flexibility they need while providing children more opportunities to learn. To read more about his plan, click here: http://iowa.barackobama.com/WorkFamilyFactSheet.
  