
    
  STATEMENT OF ADMINISTRATION POLICY

(House)
(Rep. Lamborn, R-CO, and 2 cosponsors)
The Administration strongly opposes H.R. 1965, which would undermine the Nation's energy security; roll back policies that support the continued growth of safe and responsible energy production in the United States; discourage environmental analysis and civic engagement in Federal decision-making; direct that Federal lands be managed for the primary purpose of energy development rather than for thoughtfully balanced multiple uses; and undermine public resource management plans that establish a balance between energy development and resource protection.
H.R. 1965 would reverse Administration oil and gas leasing reforms that have established orderly, open, efficient, and environmentally sound processes for energy development on public lands. Specifically, this bill would favor an arbitrary standard for leasing in open areas over leasing on the basis of greatest resource potential; limit the public's opportunity to engage in decisions about the use of public lands; raise the potential for costly litigation, protests, and delays; strip the ability of the Department of the Interior to issue permits to drill based on important environmental reviews, clearances and tribal consultation; and curtail the use of public lands for other uses like hunting, fishing, and recreation. The legislation would also remove the environmental safeguards that ensure sound Federal leasing decision-making by eliminating appropriate reviews under the National Environmental Policy Act, and undermine public resource planning efforts that have established a balanced approach to responsible oil and gas development while providing protection to valuable surface and subsistence resources in the National Petroleum Reserve-Alaska.
H.R.1965 runs contrary to the Administration's commitment to promoting safe and responsible domestic oil and gas development as part of an energy strategy that reduces the Nation’s dependence on foreign oil by increasing domestic production and increasing the fuel economy of the country’s cars and trucks. Under the Administration’s strategy, the United States now produces more oil at home than the Nation buys from other countries for the first time in nearly two decades.
If the President were presented with H.R. 1965, his senior advisors would recommend that he veto the bill.
  