
    Pool Reports by Tarini Parti, The Wall Street Journal 



Sent:
Reports:




November 12, 202112:59

In-town Pool #1 briefing delay 
Hi there -- I'm your pooler for the day. Briefing has been slightly delayed. It will now be at 1:15 pm.
Two other things on the sched today:
2:30 PM THE PRESIDENT holds a Cabinet Meeting to discuss implementation of the Bipartisan Infrastructure Deal and the results it delivers for the American peopleCabinet RoomIn-House Pool Spray at the Top (Gather 2:15 PM – Brady Press Briefing Room)
5:40 PM THE PRESIDENT departs the White House en route Camp DavidSouth LawnOpen Press and Pooled for TV (Gather 5:25 PM – Palm Room Doors)



November 12, 202113:29

In-town Pool #2 two-min briefing warning 
We got the 2-min warning for the briefing at 1:29 pm.



November 12, 202114:28

In-town Pool #3 Briefing ended/pool gathering 
Psaki's briefing ended at around 2:23 pm. We were told to gather for the cabinet meeting at 2:25 pm.



November 12, 202114:44

In-town Pool #4 cabinet meeting quotes 
Pool was ushered in at 2:36 pm for about 5 mins.
Biden opened by acknowledging that VP Harris was on conference call on her way back from France. He said he would like to catch up with her when she's back. She said "I'd like that."
Biden said it was a moment of "immense hope and possibilities" for America. He went through elements of his bipartisan infrastructure package, saying he wanted to make sure the money was being spent efficiently. Joked he was called "sheriff Joe" when he was in charge of the recovery package's implementation as VP. "We owe it to the American people," he said.
He said he would be talking to his cabinet about ensuring the money is used wisely today.
"If we do it right, we know what it will mean." He added his plans would ease inflationary pressures. And said he would have an announcement next week on who would be in charge of implementation of the infrastructure package.
We were ushered out at 2:41 pm.
Full quotes TK.



November 12, 202115:00

In-town Pool #5 More quotes/meeting participants 
Some fuller quotes from the president at the cabinet meeting. Please check against the transcript. And list of participants, per WH, is below.
"I've gathered my cabinet this afternoon at a moment of immense hope and possibilities for the United States. The American people sent us here to deliver. The American people sent us here to make the government work. And they sent us here to make a difference in their lives. And I believe we're doing that."
Biden said he's looking forward to the infrastructure bill signing ceremony on Monday, "which we will do outside, God willing the weather holding."
He commented on the bipartisan nature: "And truly we can still come together. It's hard, but we can still come together to get something big done for the American people. And the bill represents critical investments that are long overdue."
"One of our biggest responsibilities is to make sure all the money is used efficiently and effectively," he said. "I have a lot of experience in doing that."
Brought up his experience in implementing the recovery act. "The president started calling me Sheriff Joe," he said.
"I made it a point every day to stay on top of how exactly we spent the money, what projects were being built, what projects were not being built..."
He said he wants the infrastructure package to meet the same standards.
"we're going ease—and I say yes, ease, lower—inflationary pressures on our economy."
"Next week, we'll have further announcements on exactly who's going to be in charge."
--
Participating in the President's Cabinet meeting:
VP is also participating in the meeting via dial-in.
Cabinet members- Secretary of State Antony Blinken- Secretary of the Treasury Janet Yellen- Secretary of Defense Lloyd Austin- Secretary of the Interior Deb Haaland- Secretary of Commerce Gina Raimondo- Secretary of Labor Marty Walsh- Secretary of Health and Human Services Xavier Becerra- Secretary of Transportation Pete Buttigieg- Secretary of Energy Jennifer Granholm- Secretary of Education Miguel Cardona- Secretary of Veterans Affairs Denis McDonough- Secretary of Homeland Security Alejandro Mayorkas- Environmental Protection Administrator Michael Regan- Acting Director of the Office of Management and Budget Shalanda Young- Director of National Intelligence Avril Haines- U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations Linda Thomas-Greenfield- Chair of the Council of Economic Advisers Cecilia Rouse- Administrator of the Small Business Administration Isabel Guzman- Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy Eric Lander- Ron Klain, Assistant to the President & Chief of Staff
Staff- Cristóbal Alex, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Cabinet Secretary- Kate Bedingfield, Assistant to the President & Director of Communications- Brian Deese, Assistant to the President & Director of the National Economic Council- Jen O'Malley Dillon, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff- Mike Donilon, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President- Jen Klein, Deputy Assistant to the President & Co-Chair & Executive Director of the White House Gender Policy Council- Jen Psaki, Assistant to the President & Press Secretary- Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff- Dana Remus, Assistant to the President & White House Counsel- Julissa Reynoso, Assistant to the President & Chief of Staff to the First Lady- Steve Ricchetti, Assistant to the President & Counselor to the President- Susan Rice, Director of the Domestic Policy Council- Cedric Richmond, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor & Director of the Office of Public Engagement- Julie Rodriguez, Deputy Assistant to the President & Director of the Office of Intergovernmental Affairs- Evan Ryan, Deputy Assistant to the President and Cabinet Secretary- Gene Sperling, White House American Rescue Plan Coordinator & Senior Advisor to the President- Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President & National Security Advisor- Neera Tanden, Staff Secretary and Senior Advisor to the President- Louisa Terrell, Assistant to the President & Director of the Office of Legislative Affairs



November 12, 202117:00

In-town Pool #6 cabinet meeting ends 
Meeting ended at 4:36 pm, per the WH.



November 12, 202117:24

In-town Pool #7 gathering for departure 
Pool is gathering at 5:22 pm for the president's departure to Camp David.



November 12, 202117:43

In-town Pool #8 lift off/q on Belarus 
The president walked out at 5:33 pm and boarded Marine One soon after.
He got a shouted q on the situation between Poland and Belarus. It was very hard to hear but we think he said: "It's of great concern. We've communicated our concern to Russia. We've communicated our concern to Belarus. We think it's a problem."
Lift off for Camp David at 5:37 pm.
Per WH, traveling to Camp David with the President on Marine One:Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations e TomasiniYohannes Abraham, Deputy Assistant to the President & Chief of Staff and Executive Secretary for the NSCStephen Goepfert, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the President



November 12, 202118:50

In-town Pool #9 travel/photo lid 
Biden landed at Camp David at 6:09 pm, per the WH. We have a travel/photo lid at 6:49 pm.
Happy Friday!




  