
    DES MOINES, IA — U.S. Senator Amy Klobuchar today received the endorsement of two additional Iowa leaders: State Representative Cindy Winckler and Fremont County Democratic Party Chair Alice Hodde.
Winckler, who has represented Davenport in the State House since 2001, praised Klobuchar's record of achievement in the Senate in her endorsement.
"A leader is someone who builds relationships and finds common ground, while holding steadfast to her values and core principles. Amy Klobuchar has done this time and time again as the lead Democrat on over 100 bipartisan bills that have become law," said Iowa Representative Cindy Winckler. "Her remarkable record of accomplishment as a legislator is matched by her commitment to bringing civility back to our politics. We need a President who will have the respect of the Congress and can bring meaningful policy to completion. I'm proud to support Amy's campaign and look forward to caucusing for her in February."
Winckler currently represents House District 90, and has been a key leader in the Davenport area for decades. As a legislator, she has been a champion for public education, access to affordable health insurance and gender equity in the workplace. Winckler has also fought for legislation to boost wages and to expand access to affordable child care for Iowa's working families.
She currently serves as a commissioner on the Education Commission of the States and has been a member of organizations including the Leadership Partnership with School Administrators of Iowa, the Department of Education Advisory Board for the University of Northern Iowa, and the Scott County Kids Early Iowa Board.
Hodde, a longtime local party activist and community leader, praised Klobuchar's policy priorities in announcing her support.
"From the moment I first saw Amy Klobuchar in action, I was immediately impressed with her poise, grit and grace under pressure. Beyond her impressive legislative record, Amy connects with voters on a human level and understands their everyday struggles," said Fremont County Democratic Party Chair Alice Hodde. "She is focused on the issues that matter most to Iowans, including affordable healthcare, education and protecting our farmers and rural communities. I believe she's the right candidate for Iowa and I'm thrilled to support her campaign."
Klobuchar, who is one of only six candidates to qualify for the December Democratic debate, has the support of more current and former Iowa legislators than any other Democratic candidate. She recently completed her 23rd trip to Iowa and has now visited 60 of the state's 99 counties.
  