
    Pool Reports by Yasmeen Abutaleb, The Washington Post 



Sent:
Reports:




November 13, 202209:49 ICT

Travel pool report #1 - checking in
Good morning from Phnom Penh, where your pool has been covid tested and swept. There is lots of chatter about Nevada being called this morning (or Saturday evening in DC).
We are getting ready to depart to the Sokha Hotel for President Biden's second and final day at ASEAN. Schedule below:
Sunday, November 13, 2022
In the morning, the President will participate in the East Asia Summit in Phnom Penh, Cambodia. This event at the Sokha Hotel, Phnom Penh, Cambodia will be covered by the out-of-town pool.
In the afternoon, the President will hold meetings and a trilateral meeting with Prime Minister Fumio Kishida of Japan and President Yoon Suk-yeol of the Republic of Korea to continue enhancing trilateral cooperation throughout the Indo-Pacific, particularly in regard to our joint efforts to address the ongoing threat posed by the Democratic People's Republic of Korea's unlawful weapons of mass destruction and ballistic missile programs. The trilateral meeting will have an out-of-town pool spray.
In the evening, the President will travel to Bali, Indonesia for the G20 Leaders' Summit. In Bali, the President will commend President Widodo's leadership of the G20 and highlight the U.S. commitment to this premier forum for economic cooperation with countries representing more than 80% of the world's GDP. He will work with G20 partners to address key challenges such as climate change, the global impact of Putin's war on Ukraine, including on energy and food security and affordability, and a range of other priorities important to the global economic recovery and building a sustainable and inclusive global economy. The departure from Phnom Penh International Airport, Phnom Penh, Cambodia and the arrival to Ngurah Rai International Airport, Bali, Indonesia will be covered by the out-of-town pool.
Briefing Schedule
Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre and National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan will gaggle aboard Air Force One en route Bali, Indonesia
IDT
9:30 AM Out-of-Town Pool Call Time
10:15 AM THE PRESIDENT participates in the East Asia Summit Sokha Hotel, Phnom Penh, CambodiaOut-of-Town Pool 
1:30 PM THE PRESIDENT holds a meeting with Prime Minister Fumio Kishida of JapanSokha Hotel, Phnom Penh, Cambodia Closed Press
2:45 PM THE PRESIDENT holds a meeting with President Yoon Suk?yeol of the Republic of KoreaSokha Hotel, Phnom Penh, Cambodia Closed Press
3:30 PM THE PRESIDENT holds a trilateral meeting with Prime Minister Fumio Kishida of Japan and President Yoon Suk-yeol of the Republic of KoreaSokha Hotel, Phnom Penh, CambodiaOut-of-Town Pool Spray
4:55 PM THE PRESIDENT departs Phnom, Penh, Cambodia en route Bali, IndonesiaPhnom Penh International Airport, Phnom Penh, CambodiaOut-of-Town Pool 
CIT
9:30 PM THE PRESIDENT arrives in Bali, Indonesia Ngurah Rai International Airport, Bali, IndonesiaOut-of-Town Pool



November 13, 202210:34 ICT

Travel pool report #2 - heads up on Biden remarks coming
We have unplanned remarks from the president coming at his hotel. Not yet clear if there will be a livestream but pool will send quotes ASAP.



November 13, 202210:43 ICT

Travel pool report #3 - Biden remarks finish
Biden finished his remarks just before 10:40 am local time. He took a couple questions from reporters. More quotes coming in just a couple minutes but here are a couple rough ones:
"I feel good and I'm looking forward to the next couple years." (On holding the senate)
On whether he's coming into the meeting Xi in a stronger position now: "I know I'm coming in stronger. ... I've always had straight forward discussions with him."



November 13, 202210:44 ICT

Travel pool report #4- Biden congratulatory calls
From the White House:
The President made congratulatory calls this morning from Phnom Penh, Cambodia to Senator Catherine Cortez Masto at 10:08 AM local time and Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer at 10:28 AM local time.



November 13, 202210:57 ICT

Travel pool report #5 - more Biden quotes
Apologies, I sent two travel reports labeled 3 so this is #5. Many, many thanks to co-poolers Geoff Earle and Patsy Widakuswara for enormous help with quotes.
Audio was hard to hear so please check against transcript
He congratulated Sen. Schumer and said their focus now is on Georgia. "I'm not surprised by this. .. I think it's a reflection of the quality of our candidates."
"It's always better at 51." He mentioned that with 51, Democrats don't need to have an even makeup of committees.
"It's just simply better." (Having 51 vs 50 seats)
"Republicans are going to have to decide who they are."
"We're also going to break down what happened with the court case (on student debt)."
On going into the meeting with Xi stronger: "I know I'm coming in stronger ... we know that his circumstances have changed."
"I know Xi Jinping, he knows me." Said they have always had "straightforward discussions."
"We have very little misunderstanding. We just gotta figure out what the red lines are."



November 13, 202210:57 ICT

Travel pool report #6 - arrival
We arrived to the Sokha hotel at 10:53 am



November 13, 202211:09 ICT

Travel pool report #7 - holding and more congratulatory calls
Pool is holding for the next couple hours at the Sokha Hotel until President Biden's meeting with Japanese Prime Minister Fumio Kishida, which is scheduled for 1:30 pm (it's now 11:07 am local time).
And from the White House:
The President made a congratulatory call from Phnom Penh, Cambodia to Representative Mike Levin at 10:34 AM local time.



November 13, 202211:19 ICT

Travel pool report #8 - Summit participants
From the White House:
The President is participating in the East Asia Leaders Summit. Summit participants include:
Members of the East Asia SummitH.E. Hun Sen, Prime Minister of Cambodia & 2022 Chair of ASEANH.E. Hassanal Bolkiah, Sultan of BruneiH.E. Joko Widodo, President of IndonesiaH.E. Phankham Viphavanh, Prime Minister of LaosT.H. Azhar Harun, Prime Minister's Special Envoy of MalaysiaH.E. Ferndinand Marcos Jr., President of the PhilippinesH.E. Lee Hsien Loong, Prime Minister of SingaporeH.E. Prayut Chan-o-cha, Prime Minister of ThailandH.E. Pham Minh Chinh, Prime Minister of VietnamT.H. Lim Jock Hoi, Secretary General of ASEANH.E. Anthony Albanese, Prime Minister of AustraliaT.H. Li Keqiang, Premier of the People's Republic of ChinaT.H. Jagdeep Dhankhar, Vice President of IndiaH.E. Fumio Kishida, Prime Minister of JapanH.E. Jacinda Ardern, Prime Minister of New ZealandH.E. Yoon Suk-yeol, President of the Republic of KoreaT.H. Sergey Lavrov, Foreign Minister of Russia
International OrganizationsH.E. Charles Michel, President of the European CouncilT.H. Zhang Ming, Secretary-General of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization
U.S. DelegationT.H. Antony Blinken, Secretary of StateT.H. Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security AffairsT.H. Yohannes Abraham, Ambassador of the United States to ASEANT.H. Kurt Campbell, Deputy Assistant to the President and Coordinator for the Indo-Pacific, National Security CouncilT.H. Dan Kritenbrink, Assistant Secretary of State for East Asian and Pacific AffairsT.H. Edgard Kagan, Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for East Asia and Oceania, National Security Council
Speaking OrderH.E. Hun Sen, Prime Minister of Cambodia & 2022 Chair of ASEANCharles Michel, President of the European CouncilZhang Ming, Secretary-General of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization



November 13, 202213:22 ICT

Travel pool report #9 - pull aside with Australian PM
Pool caught President Biden walking for about 2 seconds ahead of a pull aside with the Australian PM, per White House



November 13, 202215:01 ICT

Travel pool report #10 - Japan bilat
From the White House:
The President is participating in a meeting with Prime Minister Fumio Kishida of Japan. Meeting participants include:
U.S. ManifestThe PresidentT.H. Antony Blinken, Secretary of StateT.H. Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security AffairsT.H. Rahm Emanuel, Ambassador of the United States to JapanT.H. Kurt Campbell, Deputy Assistant to the President and Coordinator for the Indo-Pacific, National Security CouncilT.H. Dan Kritenbrink, Assistant Secretary of State for East Asian and Pacific AffairsT.H. Edgard Kagan, Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for East Asia and Oceania, National Security Council
Japan ManifestH.E. Kishida Fumio, Prime Minister of JapanMr. Isozaki Yoshihiko, Deputy Chief Cabinet SecretaryMr. Akiba Takeo, Secretary General of the National Security SecretariatMr. Yamada Shigeo, Senior Deputy Minister for Foreign AffairsMr. Funakoshi Takehiro, Director-General, Asian and Oceanian Affairs BureauMr. Shimada Takashi, Executive Secretary to the Prime MinisterMr. Otsuru Tetsuya, Executive Secretary to the Prime Minister



November 13, 202215:40 ICT

Travel pool report #11 - Japan bilat ends
President Biden wrapped up his meeting with Japan PM Fumio Kishida at 3:34 pm. For those interested, we are running about 90 minutes behind schedule.



November 13, 202215:48 ICT

Travel pool report #12 - South Korea bilat starts
The president began his bilateral meeting with South Korea at 3:43 pm.
From the White House:
The President is participating in a meeting with President Yoon Suk-Yeol of the Republic of Korea. Meeting participants include:
U.S. ManifestThe PresidentT.H. Antony Blinken, Secretary of StateT.H. Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security AffairsT.H. Kurt Campbell, Deputy Assistant to the President and Coordinator for the Indo-Pacific, National Security CouncilT.H. Dan Kritenbrink, Assistant Secretary of State for East Asian and Pacific AffairsT.H. Edgard Kagan, Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for East Asia and Oceania, National Security CouncilMs. Henrietta Levin, Director for Southeast Asia, National Security Council
South Korea ManifestH.E. Yoon Suk-Yeol, President of the Republic of KoreaH.E. Park Jin, Minister of Foreign AffairsMr. Kim Sung Han, National Security AdvisorMr. Choi Sang Mak, Senior Economic SecretaryMr. Kim Tae Hyo, First Deputy National Security AdvisorMr. Lee Moon Hee, Secretary to the President for Foreign AffairsMr. Lim Sang Woo, Director-General for North American Affairs, Ministry for Foreign Affairs



November 13, 202216:32 ICT

Travel pool report #13 - South Korea bilat ends
The President wrapped his meeting with South Korean President Yoon Suk-Yeol at 4:29 pm, per White House.
Pool is lined up and waiting for Biden remarks ahead of trilateral meeting with Japan and South Korea.



November 13, 202216:48 ICT

Travel pool report #14 - Japan/South Korea bilat begins
Pool was ushered in at 4:37 pm for remarks ahead of trilat. Quotes from that coming shortly.
From the White House:
The President is participating in a trilateral meeting with President Yoon Suk-Yeol of the Republic of South Korea and Prime Minister Fumio Kishida of Japan. Meeting participants include:
U.S. ManifestThe PresidentT.H. Antony Blinken, Secretary of StateT.H. Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security AffairsT.H. Kurt Campbell, Deputy Assistant to the President and Coordinator for the Indo-Pacific, National Security CouncilT.H. Dan Kritenbrink, Assistant Secretary of State for East Asian and Pacific AffairsT.H. Edgard Kagan, Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for East Asia and Oceania, National Security CouncilMs. Henrietta Levin, Director for Southeast Asia, National Security Council
Japan ManifestH.E. Kishida Fumio, Prime Minister of JapanMr. Isozaki Yoshihiko, Deputy Chief Cabinet SecretaryMr. Akiba Takeo, Secretary General of the National Security SecretariatMr. Yamada Shigeo, Senior Deputy Minister for Foreign AffairsMr. Funakoshi Takehiro, Director-General, Asian and Oceanian Affairs BureauMr. Shimada Takashi, Executive Secretary to the Prime MinisterMr. Otsuru Tetsuya, Executive Secretary to the Prime Minister
South Korea ManifestH.E. Yoon Suk-Yeol, President of the Republic of KoreaH.E. Park Jin, Minister of Foreign AffairsMr. Kim Sung Han, National Security AdvisorMr. Choi Sang Mak, Senior Economic SecretaryMr. Kim Tae Hyo, First Deputy National Security AdvisorMr. Lee Moon Hee, Secretary to the President for Foreign AffairsMr. Lim Sang Woo, Director-General for North American Affairs, Ministry for Foreign Affairs



November 13, 202217:07 ICT

Travel pool report #15 - rolling and remarks at top of trilat
There was a lot of pushing and shoving from other countries' press pools. President Biden said "this is conflict, look at this" and "gentlemen, calm down a little bit." At the end of the spray said something to the effect of "if we can get out without getting hurt, that would be good."
We are rolling to the airport ahead of our departure to Bali.
These are rough quotes so please check against the transcript. Many thanks to co-poolers Geoff Earle and Patsy Widakuswara for help with quotes.
Biden spoke first and extended condolences to South Korea for the Halloween parade that killed hundreds of people.
"Japan and the Republic of Korea are critical allies of the United States."
He said North Korea has continued its "provocative" behavior and "this partnership is more important than it's ever been."
Said they would discuss a number of issues, including supply chain issues and "How we can preserve peace and stability across the Taiwan Strait."
"How we can expand our coordinated support in Ukraine" and how we can work towards a "common goal of a free and open Indo-Pacific."
"Our countries are more aligned than ever."
Japanese PM Kishida went next:
Also extended condolences to South Korea.
Said we can assume there could be more coming from North Korea so it's "extremely timely" that the three leaders were meeting.
Finally South Korean President Yoon Suk-Yeol went:
He mentioned that two Americans and two Japanese died in the South Korean stampede. "You have given us warm words of condolences."
Said the current developments in the Korean Peninsula "require the strongest level of our trilateral cooperation."
Noted that North Korea has launched some 50 missiles since he took office in May and stepped up its aggression in October.
"At a time when South Koreans are grieving in deep sorrow, North Korea continues its provocations."



November 13, 202217:24 ICT

Travel pool report #16 - airport arrival
POTUS arrived at the airport at 5:13 pm. He waved to the press at the top of the stairs but did not take questions.
From the White House:
Traveling with the President aboard Air Force One en route Bali, Indonesia:
Secretary Antony Blinken, Department of StateJen O'Malley Dillon, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of StaffJake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security AffairsMike Donilon, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the PresidentAnnie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office OperationsKate Bedingfield, Assistant to the President & Director of CommunicationsKarine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press SecretaryRyan Montoya, Deputy Assistant to the President & Director of Scheduling & AdvanceKurt Campbell, Deputy Assistant to the President & Coordinator for the Indo-PacificAmos Hochstein, Special Presidential CoordinatorAmbassador Rufus Gifford, Chief of Protocol for the United StatesJohn Kirby, National Security Council Coordinator for Strategic CommunicationsAshley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office OperationsCurtis Ried, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for Multilateral AffairsLaura Rosenberger, Special Assistant to the President & National Security Council Senior Director for ChinaCarlyn Reichel, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for Speechwriting & Strategic Initiatives



November 13, 202217:31 ICT

Travel pool report #17 - wheels up
We are wheels up to Bali at 5:30 pm.
Gaggle with Jake Sullivan and Karine Jean-Pierre is scheduled for later in the flight, around two hours from now, but in-town pool will send more precise time in a bit.



November 13, 202221:51 WITA

Travel pool report #18 - arrival in Bali
We touched down in Bali at 9:47 pm (moved ahead one hour from Phnom Penh).



November 13, 202222:12 WITA

Travel pool report #19 - arrival ceremony
President Biden stepped off Air Force 1 at 10:03 pm. He was greeted by cultural performers before watching a Balinese dance of welcome. We are rolling.



November 13, 202222:13 WITA

Travel pool report #20 - more detail on arrival ceremony
From the White House:
Greeting the President upon arrival at Ngurah Rai International Airport
Ambassador Sung Y. Kim, U.S. Ambassador to IndonesiaSandiaga Salahuddin Uno, Minister of Tourism and Creative Economy
Simon Soakarno, Chief of Protocol
Abdul Jailani, Foreign Ministry Director-General for the Asia-Pacific and Africa
Honor Cordon and Performers dressed in traditional Indonesian attire



November 13, 202222:36 WITA

Travel pool report #21 - lid
The White House called a lid at 10:32 pm. Press is being driven to a different part of the RON hotel. Have a great night (or day, depending on where you are)!



November 13, 202223:56 WITA

Travel pool report #22 - congratulatory call
From the White House:
The President made a congratulatory call from Phnom Penh, Cambodia to Representative Dina Titus at 2:05 PM local time.




 
Pool Reports by George Condon, National Journal 



Sent:
Reports:




November 13, 202207:03 EST

In-town pool report #1
Passing on from White House and Air Force One enroute Bali:
Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre and National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan will gaggle aboard Air Force one at 7:30am ET.




  