
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate six individuals to serve in his Administration.
The President intends to nominate Charles A. Gargano, of New York, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Austria. Mr. Gargano most recently served as Vice Chairman of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey. Prior to this, he served as Chairman of the Empire State Development Corporation of New York State and Commissioner of the Department of Economic Development. Earlier in his career, he served as Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago. Mr. Gargano received his bachelor's degree and MBA from Farleigh Dickinson University. He also received a master's degree from Manhattan College.
The President intends to nominate Mary Ann Glendon, of Massachusetts, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Holy See. Ms. Glendon currently serves as Learned Hand Professor of Law at Harvard University. Prior to this, she served as Professor of Law at Boston College Law School. Earlier in her career, she served as an Associate at the law firm of Mayer, Brown, and Platt. Ms. Glendon received her bachelor's degree, JD and MCL from the University of Chicago.
The President intends to nominate Eric J. Tanenblatt, of Georgia, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for National and Community Service, for the remainder of a five-year term expiring 10/06/12.
The President intends to nominate the following individuals to be Members of the United States Advisory Commission on Public Diplomacy:
Elizabeth F. Bagley, of the District of Columbia, for the remainder of a three-year term expiring 07/01/08.
Victoria Clarke, of Maryland, for the remainder of a three-year term expiring 07/01/09.
William J. Hybl, of Colorado, and upon confirmation designate Chairman, for the remainder of a three-year term expiring 07/01/09.
  