
    Pool Reports by Jeff Mordock, The Washington Times 



Sent:
Reports:




November 16, 202110:28

In-Town Pool Report #1 -- Checking In 
Good morning from the White House. I'll be your in-town pooler today.
It's an absolutely beautiful November day here in Washington with the temperature a crisp 54 degrees. The leaves on campus have turned a bright orange and look gorgeous.
I'll be your in-town pooler today. There have been no announced changes to POTUS schedule.
9:30 AM THE PRESIDENT receives the President's Daily BriefClosed Press
10:00 AM Out-of-Town Pool Call TimeJoint Base Andrews Visitor Control Center Overhang
11:00 AM In-Town Pool Call Time
11:15 AM THE PRESIDENT departs the White House en route Joint Base AndrewsSouth LawnOpen Press and Pooled for TV (Final Gather 11:05 AM – Palm Room Doors)
11:35 AM THE PRESIDENT departs Joint Base Andrews en route Manchester, New HampshireJoint Base AndrewsOut-of-Town Pool Coverage
12:55 PM THE PRESIDENT arrives in Manchester, New HampshireManchester-Boston Regional AirportOpen Press
1:45 PM THE PRESIDENT arrives in North Woodstock, New HampshireBradley FieldOut-of-Town Pool Coverage
2:25 PM THE PRESIDENT delivers remarks on how the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law repairs and rebuilds the nation's roads and bridgesNH 175 Bridge, Woodstock, New HampshireOut-of-Town Pool and Pre-Credentialed Media Coverage
3:25 PM THE PRESIDENT departs North Woodstock, New HampshireBradley FieldOut-of-Town Pool Coverage
4:45 PM THE PRESIDENT departs Manchester, New Hampshire en route Joint Base AndrewsManchester-Boston Regional AirportOpen Press
6:05 PM THE PRESIDENT arrives at Joint Base AndrewsJoint Base AndrewsOut-of-Town Pool Coverage
6:25 PM THE PRESIDENT arrives at the White HouseSouth LawnOpen Press and Pooled for TV (Final Gather 6:15 PM – Palm Room Doors)
Briefing Schedule
Deputy Press Secretary Andrew Bates will gaggle aboard Air Force One en route Manchester, New Hampshire



November 16, 202111:42

In-Town Pool Report #2 -- Departure 
Wheels up on Marine One at 11:41.
POTUS boarded wearing a blue suit and red tie.
He did not take any questions shouted at him by the pool reporters about his meeting with President Xi, Afghanistan and Ethiopia.
Now handing it off to the out-of-town pool. I'll rejoin you when POTUS returns this evening.



November 16, 202111:47

In-Town Pool Report #3 -- Traveling with POTUS 
Per the White House, here is who is traveling with the POTUS to New Hampshire.
NOW passing the baton to Out of Town Pool.
Traveling with the President on Marine One:
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of StaffKate Bedingfield, Assistant to the President & Director of CommunicationsMitch Landrieu, Senior Advisor & Infrastructure Act Implementation CoordinatorAshley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office OperationsStephen Goepfert, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the President



November 16, 202118:48

In-Town Pool Report #4 -- Arrival 
Marine One touched down at 6:44.
POTUS waived to the press but did not take questions as he walked off Marine One.



November 16, 202118:55

In-Town Pool Report #5 
The White House has called a lid.
It's been a pleasure being your pooler. Have a great night.




 
Pool Reports below by Andrew Restuccia, The Wall Street Journal 



Sent:
Reports:




November 16, 202111:15

Travel pool report #1 — background from the WH on NH trip 
Passing along this background from the White House:
On background from a WH official:
President Biden's trip to New Hampshire today marks the start of an administration-wide effort where the President, Vice President, and Cabinet Members will travel across the country promoting the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law and communicating directly with the American people about how it will change their lives for the better. Officials will travel red states, blue states, big cities, small towns, rural areas, Tribal communities, and more to highlight how the President forged consensus to demonstrate how democracies can deliver real results for their people. Officials will underscore what the law means in tangible terms from rebuilding roads and bridges, modernizing public transit, expanding access to clean drinking water, ensuring every American has high-speed internet, building a national network of EV charging stations, and more. In the coming days, weeks, and months, they will also carry the message through local and national TV hits, African American and Spanish-language media outlets, and digital channels with easy-to-understand explainers and content.



November 16, 202111:26

Travel pool report #1a — more background info 
The White House sends along this longer version of the statement:
On background from a White House official:
President Biden's trip to New Hampshire today marks the start of an administration-wide effort where the President, Vice President, and Cabinet Members will travel across the country promoting the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law and communicating directly with the American people about how it will change their lives for the better. Officials will travel red states, blue states, big cities, small towns, rural areas, Tribal communities, and more to highlight how the President forged consensus to demonstrate how democracies can deliver real results for their people. Officials will underscore what the law means in tangible terms from rebuilding roads and bridges, modernizing public transit, expanding access to clean drinking water, ensuring every American has high-speed internet, building a national network of EV charging stations, and more. In the coming days, weeks, and months, they will also carry the message through local and national TV hits, African American and Spanish-language media outlets, and digital channels with easy-to-understand explainers and content.
ADMINISTATION TRAVEL FOR THE BIPARTISIAN INFRATRUCTURE LAW
Tuesday, 11/16

POTUS in Woodstock, NH
Admin. Regan in New Orleans, LA & St. John and St. James Parish, LA

Wednesday, 11/17

POTUS in Detroit, MI
Admin. Regan in New Orleans, LA

Thursday, 11/18

Sec. Haaland in Barnstable, MA
Admin. Regan in Mossville, LA and Houston, TX

Friday, 11/19

VPOTUS in Columbus, OH
Sec. Walsh in Detroit, MI
Sec. Buttigieg in AZ
Admin. Regan in Houston, TX

Saturday, 11/20

Sec. Fudge in Atlanta, GA
Sec. Haaland in San Francisco, CA

Monday, 11/22

Sec. Granholm in Oak Ridge, TN
Sec. Haaland in NM




November 16, 202111:55

Travel pool report #2 — JBA, no questions 
Marine One touched down at JBA at 11:50 am
POTUS, in a red striped tie, exited Marine One at 11:52 am.
He spoke and shook hands with one of the greeters. He waved to the press but did not take questions.
He entered AF1 at 11:54 am, saluting and waving at the top of the stairs
We'll be wheels up for New Hampshire momentarily. We're taking the big plane today.
Deputy press secretary Andrew Bates will be gaggling aboard Air Force One. It's his first time gaggling. The audio from the gaggle will be streamed live.
From the White House:
Greeting the President upon arrival at Joint Base Andrews:Colonel Matthew Jones, Commander, 89th Airlift Wing
Traveling with the President on Air Force One:Senator Jeanne Shaheen (NH)Senator Maggie Hassan (NH)Representative Annie Kuster (NH-02)Representative Chris Pappas (NH-01)Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of StaffKate Bedingfield, Assistant to the President & Director of CommunicationsMitch Landrieu, Senior Advisor & Infrastructure Act Implementation CoordinatorShanthi Kalathil, Deputy Assistant to the President and Coordinator for DemocracyVinay Reddy, Deputy Assistant to the President & Director of SpeechwritingAshley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office OperationsStephen Goepfert, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the PresidentTravis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President and Trip DirectorAndrew Bates, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Press SecretaryChad Metzler, Special Assistant to the President & Senate Legislative Affairs Liaison



November 16, 202112:05

Travel pool report #3 — wheels up 
AF1 was wheels up to New Hampshire at 12:04



November 16, 202113:11

Travel pool report #4 — AF1 landed
AF1 landed at 1:05 pm as Andrew Bates was finishing his gaggle.
Bates gaggled on the plane amid turbulence and a bumpy landing. He gaggled for a little over 20 minutes and the audio should have been streamed live.
The plane ride was otherwise uneventful. The TVs were tuned to CNN end the press was served paninis.



November 16, 202113:30

Travel pool report #5 — leaving airport
POTUS exited AF1 at 1:21 pm. He shook hands and spoke with Gov. Sununu, who greeted him at the bottom of the stairs. POTUS did not speak to reporters.
POTUS walked to Marine One after talking to Gov. Sununu for a few minutes.
The pool then rushed to our waiting ospreys. From our seats on the ospreys, we could not see Marine One lift off. The ospreys were wheels up at 1:28 pm.
We are on the way to the landing zone at Bradley Field in North Woodstock
From the WH:
Greeting the President at Manchester-Boston Regional Airport:New Hampshire Governor Chris Sununu



November 16, 202114:16

Travel pool report #6 — motorcade rolling
The osprey carrying the pool landed at 1:50 pm
The flight from the airport was bumpy but uneventful, aside from beautiful views of the New England foliage below.
Marine One, kicking up grass and leaves, landed at 2:02 pm.
The pool was positioned at least 100 yards away from Marine One, so we couldn't yell questions. We couldn't see POTUS exit Marine One because our view was blocked by vehicles in the motorcade.
The field where POTUS landed is surrounded by rolling mountains dotted with trees in shades of brown, green and orange. There's a small pond at one end of the field.
It's 39 degrees and cloudy here. It's snowing very lightly.
The pool loaded into vans and the motorcade was rolling at 2:14 pm
We're on our way to nearby Woodstock, where POTUS will deliver remarks on infrastructure at the NH 175 Bridge.



November 16, 202114:34

Travel pool report #7 — arrival at bridge
The motorcade stopped at 2:24 pm. We did not see POTUS exit.
The motorcade passed several onlookers along the way. Many waved and snapped photos, with some holding American flags.
One man held a "Let's Go Brandon" sign. A sign on a truck read "F [picture of an American flag] K Biden." Later, we passed a business with a sign out front that read, "Let's Go Brandon." A confederate flag was displayed alongside the sign.
A stage is set up in front of the NH 175 Bridge, where Biden will deliver his remarks. A large American flag has been strung across the bridge as a backdrop.
The bridge, which appears to be made of steel, stands over a river below.
On the stage, there's a lectern with the presidential seal. A teleprompter is set up facing the stage.
Pool spotted POTUS in a tent behind the flag as we walked past. We are holding waiting for his remarks.



November 16, 202114:44

Travel pool report #8 — attendees
The White House passes this along:
REPORTABLE:
Joining the President on the NH 175 Pemigewasset River Bridge:
Senator Jeanne Shaheen (NH)Senator Maggie Hassan (NH)Representative Annie Kuster (NH-02)Representative Chris Pappas (NH-01)New Hampshire Department of Transportation Commissioner Victoria Sheehan



November 16, 202114:52

Travel pool report #9 — remarks start
POTUS started speaking at 2:51 pm.
The speech is being streamed live.
Some color: it's lightly snowing here and 37 degrees.
There are a couple dozen people in the crowd. They're seated in white folding chairs.



November 16, 202115:26

Travel pool report #10 — remarks end
POTUS wrapped up his remarks at 3:12 pm
POTUS then shook hands with people in the crowd. The crowd of a couple-dozen people formed a circle around the president and he posed for photos
One note: the pool could hear people yelling during the president's speech, but the people were far away and we couldn't make out what they were saying. Your pool couldn't see the people, who appeared to be outside the secure area where the president was speaking.
Local reporters here said the yelling was coming from a group of a couple dozen anti-Biden protesters located outside the secure area.
From the WH:
Introducing the President:
New Hampshire Department of Transportation Commissioner Victoria Sheehan



November 16, 202115:28

Travel Pool report #11 — Biden on Fed
Biden, asked by pool about an announcement on Fed chair, said he hoped to make a final decision in about four days.



November 16, 202115:33

Travel pool report #12 — more Biden remarks
POTUS responded to questions about his China meeting and Fed. It was very hard to hear. Working on getting audio.
On when he'd make an announcement on Fed chair:
"In about four days."
On China meeting:
"We talked together on a whole range of issues."
More TK



November 16, 202115:45

Travel pool report #13 — Biden on China
The motorcade arrived back at the Bradley Field landing zone at 3:39 pm. We didn't see POTUS exit
We're loading into osprey
Biden on China from after his speech:
"It was a good meeting we got a lot to follow up on. We set up four groups we're gonna get our folks together on a whole range of issues. I'll have more to report for you in the next two weeks."
Any progress on Taiwan?
"Yes. We made very clear we support the Taiwan Act and that's it. It's independent. It makes its own decisions."
On motorcade ride:
few supporters holding phones and waving as Biden drove through.
One elderly woman held a "Trump won," "god bless America" sign.
A man held a "Let's go Brandon" sign.
A pickup truck with a "fuck Biden" sign on the back.



November 16, 202115:47

Travel pool report #14 — full Fed quote
?Reporter asked re Fed chair "Any closer to a decision?" After a pause, Biden responded: "Yes, as my grandfather would say, with the grace of God and the goodwill of the neighbors, you're gonna hear that in about four days."



November 16, 202116:27

Travel pool report #15 — Manchester airport
The osprey carrying the pool landed at Manchester airport at 4:09 pm. Another bumpy but uneventful ride as the sun began to set in New Hampshire.
Marine One touched down at 4:19 pm. POTUS walked with the greeter into a building at the airport for a photo line, per WH. The pool is still outside waiting to depart.
Per WH:
Greeting the President at Manchester-Boston Regional Airport:
Manchester Mayor Joyce Craig



November 16, 202116:28

Travel pool report #16 — photo line participants
?Per WH:
Participating in a photoline with the President:
Manchester Mayor Joyce CraigNew Hampshire House Minority Leader Renny CushingNew Hampshire State Representative, Grafton District 3, Denny RuprechtNew Hampshire State Representative, Merrimack District 11, Steve ShurtleffNew Hampshire Executive Councilor, District 2, Cinde WarmingtonCarol Shea Porter, Former U.S. Congresswoman from New Hampshire, & Gene Porter



November 16, 202117:07

Travel pool report #17 — more Biden on China
POTUS exited the airport building where the photo line took place at 4:56 pm.
He walked to Air Force One and then stopped to talk to reporters
He said he wasn't changing US policy on Taiwan and clarified his earlier comments
"We're not going to change our policy at all."
"I said they have to decide on Taiwan, not us. We are not encouraging independence. We're encouraging them to do exactly what the Taiwan Act requires. That's what we're doing. Let them make up their mind."
More broadly on his chat with Xi
"I made it clear all along that we're going to abide by the rules of the road. What constitutes international airspace is international airspace no matter what they say. There's no air identification zone. Secondly, the law of the seas requires and dictates what constitutes territorial waters. We're going to stay outside of their territorial waters."



November 16, 202117:11

Travel pool report #18 — more Biden China
?On the South China Sea: "secondly, the law of the seas requires and dictates what constitutes territorial waters. We're going to stay outside their territorial waters and we're not going to be intimidated or change to not go to the South China Sea. And we talked about that and there was no argumentation. It was a matter of fact."
Asked if the US would send a delegation to the Olympics, Biden said, "I'm the delegation." It was unclear what he meant by that. It wasn't clear if he understood the question.
Wheels up momentarily



November 16, 202117:13

Travel pool #19 — wheels up
?Wheels up at 5:10



November 16, 202118:36

Travel pool report #20 — JBA
AF1 touched down at JBA at 6:12 pm
POTUS exited AF1 at 6:27 pm. He shook hands with the greeter and walked to Marine One. He didn't speak to the pool.
Marine One was wheels up at 6:35 pm
Handing off to the in-town pool. Big thank you to my colleagues in the pool for their help today.
From the WH:
Greeting the President upon arrival at Joint Base Andrews:Colonel Matthew Jones, Commander, 89th Airlift Wing




  