
    WASHINGTON – Today, President Barack Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individual to a key Administration post:
•      Sim Farar, Member, United States Advisory Commission on Public Diplomacy
The President also announced his intent to appoint the following individuals to key Administration posts:
•      Benjamin Cardin, Member, Board of Trustees of the James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation
•      John Cornyn, Member, Board of Trustees of the James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation
•      Elizabeth Young McNally, Member, Board of Visitors to the United States Military Academy
President Obama said, "I am proud to have these tremendously accomplished individuals serve in these important roles. I look forward to working with them in the months and years to come."
Senators Cardin and Cornyn will be appointed to the Board of Trustees of the James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation in addition to their duties in the United States Senate.
President Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individual to a key Administration post:
Sim Farar, Nominee for Member, United States Advisory Commission on Public Diplomacy
Sim Farar is the President of JDF Investments Company, which specializes in corporate development, and the President and Director of IFC Financial Services, a mortgage brokerage company. In 1999, Mr. Farar was nominated and confirmed by the U.S. Senate to serve as a U.S. Representative to the 54th General Assembly of the United Nations. In 1994, he was appointed to the Advisory Committee on the Arts of the Kennedy Center for Performing Arts, and he has also served on the California Senate Small Business Advisory Board Commission and the California Senate Advisory Committee on Business Insurance. Mr. Farar received an A.A. from the College of the Desert in Palm Desert and a B.A. from California State University, Northridge.
President Obama announced his intent to appoint the following individual to a key Administration post:
Elizabeth Young McNally, Appointee for Member, Board of Visitors to the United States Military Academy
Elizabeth Young McNally is a management consultant at McKinsey & Co. in New York, where she has served clients in the financial services and health care sectors as well as in the federal government. She is also a Captain in the U.S. Army Reserves, assigned as a Strategic Communicator for the Commander, International Security Assistance Force/US Forces-Afghanistan. Previously, she spent eight years in the active duty Army. During that time, Ms. McNally served two tours in Iraq, including a year as the speechwriter for General David Petraeus, the then-commander of military forces in Iraq; in Hawaii as a military police company commander and brigade operations officer; and in Germany as a military police platoon leader. A Rhodes Scholar and Truman Scholar, she graduated from the US Military Academy and also received a Masters of Philosophy in International Relations from Oxford University.
  