
    Pool Reports by Noah Robertson, The Christian Science Monitor 



Sent:
Reports:




November 4, 202209:44 PDT

WH Travel Pool Report #1 – Good Morning
Good morning from San Diego!
Your pool is Covid tested and swept – our bags were checked by an eager Belgian mal named Bitty. We have another busy day here, though not quite as long as yesterday. Then off to Chicago.
It's cool and sunny here, a perfect fall day.
Guidance, per usual, is below.
PDT
9:30 AM Out-of-Town Pool Call Time
11:45 AM THE PRESIDENT delivers remarks at an American technology company that will benefit from passage of the President's CHIPS and Science Act and more chips being made in AmericaSan Diego, CaliforniaOpen Press
1:15 PM THE PRESIDENT departs San Diego, California en route Chicago, IllinoisMarine Corps Air Station Miramar, San Diego, CaliforniaOut-of-Town Pool
CDT
7:05 PM THE PRESIDENT arrives in Chicago, IllinoisChicago O'Hare International Airport, Chicago, IllinoisOpen Press
7:30 PM THE PRESIDENT participates in a political receptionChicago, IllinoisRestricted Out-of-Town Pool
Briefing Schedule
Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre will gaggle aboard Air Force One en route Chicago, Illinois



November 4, 202210:56 PDT

WH Travel Pool Report #2 – Rolling
The pool is rolling a little late at 10:55 am to ViaSat, a comms company, for remarks by the president. Details on that below.
There was a small crowd on the neighboring sidewalk waiting to watch the motorcade drive out.
The pool did not see the president enter his vehicle. KJP walked by a few moments ago.
(Also, I checked again about the dog's name and it's actually Biggie, as in the rapper Biggie Smalls. Apparently, Secret Service also gives out baseball cards of the dogs, but they're all out today.)
From a White House official: 
Today in San Diego, the President will join Congressman Mike Levin for a visit to Viasat, a leading global communications company – with a focus on hiring veterans as they transition from military to civilian life - that will benefit from passage of the President's CHIPS and Science Act and more chips being made in America. Pandemic-era supply disruptions and a dearth of domestic chip manufacturing hindered American companies like Viasat who rely on these components to build technologies used by leading industries and the U.S. military. At Friday's event, the President will highlight the role the CHIPS and Science Act will play in helping American companies reduce their reliance on overseas chip manufacturers and reduce costs for American consumers.
Viasat is a Carlsbad-headquartered communications company that provides satellite and fixed and mobile broadband internet. The company is known for its commitment to supporting veterans and their families and has more than 700 veteran employees spread across its offices throughout the U.S. Viasat has also been recognized by the U.S. Department of Labor for its continued investments in recruiting,employing, and retaining veterans. Viasat currently employs around 7,000 people.
Friday's trip is the latest event to highlight the resurgence of American manufacturing driven by passage of CHIPS, the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, and the Inflation Reduction Act. These events emphasizing the President's commitment to building more in America stand in stark contrast to Congressional Republicans, who have spent the last several weeks talking about ripping away the progress we've made, raising costs for working people,and putting Medicare and Social Security on the chopping block.
Recent events highlighting the President's work to revitalize American manufacturing, include:

In September, the President delivered remarks at the groundbreaking of Intel's $20 billion investment in building chips in Ohio.
In October, the President toured IBM's Poughkeepsie campus and delivered remarks at the company's announcement of a $20 billion investment in developing A.I. and quantum computing technology in the United States.
In October, the President announced $2.8 billion in BIL awards to boost the domestic manufacture of batteries for electric vehicles and the electrical grid.
In October, the President visited Syracuse following Micron's announcement of a $100 billion investment in building chips in New York.
Earlier this week, the President hosted labor, non-profit, educational, and industry leaders at the White House as they announced commitments to train Americans for jobs created by the BIL, CHIPS and Science Act and IRA.




November 4, 202211:33 PDT

WH Travel Pool Report #3 – Arrival and Holding
The pool arrived at a ViaSat parking garage in Carlsbad at 11:24 am. No sight of POTUS.
A few folks stood at the intersection, one with a poster decorated with a heart. No protesters.
We're now holding outside at a small event space filled with employees. Rep. Levin was just speaking. It's a plaza style office park, and "Come and Get Your Love" is playing aside Jackson 5 hits.
Per the WH
The President will deliver remarks at ViaSat, an American technology company that will benefit from passage of the President's CHIPS and Science Act and more chips being made in America The company also has a focus on hiring veterans as they transition from military to civilian life.AttendeesRep. Mike Levin (CA-49)Veterans and advocates, supporters, ViaSat leadership, and local elected officials
Pre-ProgramSteve Hart, Co-founder of ViaSatCraig Miller, President of Government Systems at ViaSatRep. Mike Levin (CA-49)
Speaking ProgramTaryne Haskamp, Certification Program Manager of ViaSat, veteran of the U.S. Marine Corps and U.S. NavyThe President
…
Traveling with the President via motorcade en route ViaSat Office Building 1:
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of StaffAnita Dunn, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the PresidentAnnie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office OperationsKarine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press SecretaryVinay Reddy, Assistant to the President & Director of SpeechwritingCarla Frank, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of the Office of Political Strategy & OutreachAshley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office OperationsTravis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip DirectorCurtis Ried, Chief of Staff & Executive Secretary for the National Security Council



November 4, 202212:21 PDT

WH Travel Pool Report #4 – President Begins
The president began speaking at 12:20 pm.
The stage is in front of four flags – two American, two with the presidential seal – and a mural of a cresting blue wave.
Stream at  http://WhiteHouse.gov/live
A ViaSat employee thanked the president for the CHIPS and PACT acts before Biden took the stage. The crowd gave him a standing ovation.
Per the WH
Participating in a photo line with the President at ViaSat Office Building 1:
Rep. Scott Peters (CA-52)Rep. Mike Levin (CA-49)Todd Gloria, Mayor of San Diego, CaliforniaNathan Fletcher, Chair of the San Diego County Board of SupervisorsSabrina Cervantes, California State AssemblymemberTasha Boerner Horvath, California State Assemblymember



November 4, 202213:15 PDT

WH Travel Pool Report #5 – Highlights & Rolling
The president finished speaking at 12:55 pm.
We're rolling back to Marine Corps Air Station Miramar now at 1:14 pm. We didn't see the president board.
(Check quotes against the audio)
He started by complimenting the veterans present and referencing his late son Beau again. Biden thanked the two representatives in attendance and said he and Rep. Levin have a lot in common because they married "above their station."
The president told some stories about being in Iraq and Afghanistan. He spoke about relevant bills, like the PACT Act, the ARP (with VA funding), the infrastructure act, and the CHIPS and Science Act.
The last got the most attention. He said "America stopped investing in America," prompting the need for an industrial strategy. "It has in a big way turned things around," he said of the bill. But "it's not state planning." Instead he said it was a way to encourage private companies to invest in American industries.
References to union work, reshoring, manufacturing, inflation, supply chain issues on both sides of the war in Ukraine.
Biden pitched the economy, including the jobs report. He said the IRA would help with inflation and talked about "breathing room." Some jabs at Pharma – he said in the past he "spoke to the guy that invented insulin" about its price.
"I'm going to have a little … come to the lord talk with the oil companies pretty soon."
References to climate spending and EVs. "We're going to be shutting down these plants across America" he said of coal energy that would be replaced with wind and solar.
He made a comment about having cut "the federal deficit in half" that the pool couldn't quite understand.
"There are bright spots where America is reasserting itself."
Color:
"Everything starts in a garage" he joked about California's tech businesses.
"What's the best part of being president?" He said of AF1. "The plane doesn't leave until you get there."
"When I was in the Senate they called me Mr. Amtrak"



November 4, 202214:07 PDT

WH Travel Pool Report #6 – Airport & quotes
Back at the airport.
Biden exited his vehicle at 1:55 pm. He walked over to the pylons next to the station and shook hands with military families down the line, including with a boy smiling widely. A hug and kiss on the check with one woman.
He stopped by for a short gaggle with only one question.
Be extra careful with quotes and check otter link.
"We're going to win this time around"
He predicted Democrats would hold win a seat in the senate and hold onto the house. "I feel optimistic."
"I think that we have pretty good crowds" he said of the rallies even though he said we "don't report it that way."
His reason for optimism he said is the Dems' policies.
He said no questions but answered one about a meeting with oil companies saying "nothing's set up"
Otter link here:
https://otter.ai/u/5dSncj0pEd6HtDFKID0VVJdcCF8
A calm ride. The motorcade was flipped off by one woman on the sidewalk and thumbs-downed by another nearby man.



November 4, 202214:12 PDT

WH Travel Pool Report #7 – Liftoff
I'm going to transcribe the quotes in the air in case y'all don't get the transcript before. Taxiing now at 2:11 pm
Per the WH
Traveling with the President aboard Air Force One en route Chicago O'Hare International Airport:
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of StaffAnita Dunn, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the PresidentAnnie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office OperationsKarine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press SecretaryVinay Reddy, Assistant to the President & Director of SpeechwritingCarla Frank, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of the Office of Political Strategy & OutreachAshley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office OperationsTravis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip DirectorCurtis Ried, Chief of Staff & Executive Secretary for the National Security Council



November 4, 202214:16 PDT

WH Travel Pool Report #8 – more quotes
"We're going to win this time around"
"I don't think we're going to not win. We're keeping the house"
"So I'm optimistic. I really am"
"I know you don't think it but we have pretty good crowds"
"I don't know anybody whose really opposed to us bringing down medical prices and prescription drugs and all those other things"



November 4, 202220:12 CDT

WH Travel Pool Report #9 – Landing in Chicago & Rolling
AF1 landed at Chicago O'Hare Airport at 7:58 pm (now in CDT). The president exited the plane at 8:08 pm.
He greeted Cook County Board President Toni Preckwinkle with a big hug after descending the steps. It's warm and windy. They spoke for a moment, hugged again, and he stepped into his car.
We're rolling now to the fundraiser at 8:11 pm.
KJP began the in flight gaggle at 6:31 pm and finished at 7:00 pm. The event tonight, she confirmed, is a fundraiser for Reps Underwood and Casten. And the event in NY is with Gov Hochul.
She took questions on Twitter, Trump's near announcement, Biden's Iran comment, Adv. Sullivan's Ukraine visit, midterm issues motivating voters, the jobs report, anti-semitism and Kyrie Irving, oil companies, California gas prices, student debt relief timing, and crime messaging.
At 7:14 pm two SAOs came back for a 20-minute off the record conversation.



November 4, 202220:32 CDT

WH Travel Pool Report #10 – Hotel
We arrived at the Loews Hotel, where the fundraiser will be, at 8:28 pm. The pool did not see POTUS exit the vehicle.



November 4, 202220:49 CDT

WH Travel Pool Report #11 – Fundraiser Remarks Begin
The president began speaking at 8:42 pm after remarks by Reps Underwood and Casten. There's about 40 people here, and we're in a far corner room in the hotel.
Per the WH
The President is participating in a political reception in Chicago, Illinois:
Speaking ProgramSenator Dick DurbinRep. Lauren Underwood (IL-14)Rep. Sean Casten (IL-06)The President



November 4, 202221:18 CDT

WH Travel Pool Report #12 – Fundraiser ends, Quotes, & Dinner Lid
The president finished speaking at 9:08 pm and we at 9:10 p.m. got a dinner lid until 11 p.m.
Quotes below
"Folks, I'm not buying the notion that we're in trouble."
The president reiterated his prediction that the Dems would keep the House and Senate. "I think we're going to win. I really do."
Later, he added that "If we lose the House and Senate it's going to be a horrible two years. The good news is that I'll have the veto power"
On Twitter, he mentioned that "Elon Musk goes out and buys an outfit that spews lies all across the world."
"There's no editors anymore in America"

First, some compliments.
"You may have the most innovative damn governor in the country." The president praised Gov Pritzker for using ARP funds well. Ditto for Sen. Durbin. "The only drawback is they've been so good that people haven't realized how good they are yet," he said of the Dem's big bills passed.
The president transitioned to complimenting the House members present. "He's focused like we all are on public safety," he said of Rep. Casten. Then he referenced the gun bill and his goal for another assault weapons ban.
"There's a mass shooting every day in our city streets. We've gotta stop it." The ARP, he said, invested in police forces. "I'm not a defund the cops guy. I'm a hold the cops responsible guy"
"We expect them to do everything," he said of police.
"There's good presidents and bad presidents, good senators and bad senators, good cops and bad cops"

He touted the bipartisan bills the Congress has passed in the last couple years – in particular the burn pits bill. "That's the stuff we're doing. That's the stuff we Democrats are doing."
"Everything we've done is for the people"

Then onto the economy and more digs at Republicans.
"There's a lot going on because of 'inflation.' And it's real." He blamed inflation on the war in Ukraine, primarily. But he reiterated this trip's talking points on bringing down costs.

"We're now in a situation where the Republicans are running at us on almost everything they can think of ... but ask yourself what are they for?"
"Everything they want to do would make inflation worse."
On the jobs report: "The unemployment rate ticked up to 3.7, the second lowest in American history"
"Yeah you can say that again" he said of a boo of Sen. Rick Scott

Then, onto "This guy who I even have less respect for – Ron Johnson," the president said, criticizing again their stances on Social Security and Medicare.

"Democracy is really on the block"



November 4, 202221:28 CDT

WH Travel Pool Report #13 – Slight Correction to Quote
Checked my notes once more and it's "If we lose the House and Senate it's going to be a horrible two years. The good news is that I'll have the veto pen"



November 4, 202221:47 CDT

WH Travel Pool Report #14 – lid
Called at 9:45 pm.




 
Pool Report below by Geoff Earle, Daily Mail 



Sent:
Reports:




November 4, 202219:31 EDT

In town pool report Number 1 - gaggle starting
The gaggle aboard AF1 is about to start, per the White House.




  