
    President Biden. Prime Minister, it's good to see you and have a chance to offer my congratulations in person again, in front of everyone here.
And I think this meeting is an opportunity for us to reaffirm the incredible and close relationship between Great Britain and the United States. You are our closest ally and closest friend, and we appreciate that.
We stand together with Ukraine and the Ukrainian people and continue to take issue with Russian behavior. And we're going to continue to support Ukraine as long as Russia continues their aggression.
And this morning we've already met with our fellow NATO and G-7 leaders to address Russia's latest missile strikes against Kyiv and western Ukraine. And it's just—it's merciless. And it's—I think it borders on—anyway, it's way over the top what they're doing.
And at the moment when world leaders here in Bali are seeking to make progress on global peace, Putin is striking civilian targets and children and women. And I mean, it's just—it's almost—in my words, not yours—barbaric, what he's doing.
And Russia can and should stop the war. They're able to do it. They could stop it tomorrow if they wanted to. But I'm glad we're on the same page in terms of supporting the Ukrainian people's right to be free and free of all Russian forces in their country.
So—but thank you. And I'm looking forward to our discussion.
Prime Minister Sunak. Well, President Biden, it's a great honor to have the opportunity to sit down with you. I think the partnership between our countries is unique and enduring, and of course, it's bigger than any two individuals. But I'm proud to have stewardship of it at the moment.
And as you said——
President Biden. I'm glad you are too.
Prime Minister Sunak. Yes. Well, as you said, the United States is our closest ally, biggest trading partner, closest security partner. And I'm glad to see that partnership in action doing good, whether it's standing up to—and I agree with your words—barbaric activity by Russia in Ukraine, but also tackling climate change, stabilizing the global economy.
Our values are aligned, our interests are aligned, and there's much good that we can do working together. I look forward to our discussion.
President Biden. I'm looking forward to it too.
Thank you all.
Prime Minister Sunak. Thank you.
Q. Mr. President, do you believe the strike in Poland was a mistake, sir?
President Biden. [Inaudible]
Q. Mr. President, are you certain that Russia fired the rockets——
  