
    THE PRESIDENT. I would like to say to my wife, Rosalynn, and to Surgeon General Richmond, to Mrs. Young, who is our National Chairman for the Year of the Child, that I'm deeply grateful to them for their willingness to go to Thailand, to observe at first hand the consequences of the horrible tragedy that is occurring there.
It's imperative that our Nation exert its moral leadership as an example to the entire world of the true feelings of Americans, as we have observed with deep concern and with horror the unprecedented loss of life, because of starvation and persecution, of the people of Cambodia, many of whom have now fled into Thailand. It's important that we maintain our commitment and our concern to all the starving people there, regardless of their political affiliation, regardless of the circumstances under which they suffer.
Secondly, I would like for the Surgeon General and my wife and others in the group to assess the bureaucratic obstacles that exist. This is an international effort, but our Nation plays a major role in shaping the means by which relief—food, medical care can be delivered to the starving and suffering people who have crossed the border into Thailand. And I would hope that when they come back, they can report accurately what can be done to remove any such obstacles from the delivery of this care. We recognize that the warring parties in Kampuchea have provided an unwarranted obstacle to the delivery of food, and I would hope they would explore every possibility for the breaking down of these obstacles.
The third thing I've asked Rosalynn to do is to deliver to Prime Minister Kriangsak and the Royal Family of Thailand a personal message of appreciation and admiration for the courage and the generosity of the Thais in receiving literally hundreds of thousands of refugees into a country already somewhat impoverished, already having exhibited great generosity in the past.
This tragedy, where almost one-half the total population of Kampuchea has died, is of unbelievable proportions, and it's important that the world and the people of the United States maintain their intense interest and their intense commitment until the tragedy is relieved. Our country has already committed a major share of the total international effort. We are ready to do more. We have no political motives. We have one single commitment, and that is to stop the suffering and the starvation among these unfortunate people. This trip, we hope, will increase both the public and private commitment to alleviate suffering there.
Rosalynn and Jean and Dr. Richmond, our hearts and our prayers go with you. And we look forward to this weekend, when you return, for a means by which our Nation can be reinspired to assist in every possible way the people who are suffering so deeply.
Would you like to say just a word?
Mrs. CARTER. This is a tragic situation, and out' whole country is concerned. I want to go also to see what every American can do to help.
Thank you very much.
  