
    President George W. Bush today announced the leadership of the 2005 Presidential Inaugural Committee. The committee will be responsible for planning and coordinating all official activities associated with the President's upcoming Inauguration.
The following is a list of the Members of the 2005 Presidential Inaugural Committee:
Bill and Kathy DeWitt of Ohio, Co-Chairs of the Presidential Inaugural Committee. Mr. DeWitt is the Co-Chairman of Reynolds, DeWitt and Company, a Cincinnati-based investment firm. Mr. and Mrs. DeWitt served as Co-Chairs for the 2001 Presidential Inaugural Committee.
Brad Freeman of California, Co-Chair of the Presidential Inaugural Committee. Mr. Freeman is a founding partner of Freeman Spogli & Co., a private investment firm with offices in Los Angeles and New York. Mr. Freeman served as Co-Chair for the 2001 Presidential Inaugural Committee.
Mercer and Gabrielle Reynolds of Ohio, Co-Chairs of the Presidential Inaugural Committee. Ambassador Reynolds served as the National Finance Chairman of Bush-Cheney 2004. Ambassador Reynolds served as Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Switzerland, and as Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Principality of Liechtenstein. Ambassador and Mrs. Reynolds served as Co-Chairs for the 2001 Presidential Inaugural Committee.
Jeanne L. Phillips of Texas, Chairman of the Presidential Inaugural Committee. Ambassador Phillips served as the Representative of the United States of America to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (rank of Ambassador). Ambassador Phillips served as Executive Director of the 2001 Presidential Inaugural Committee. Ambassador Phillips is a Texas businesswoman.
Greg Jenkins of Virginia, Executive Director of the Presidential Inaugural Committee. Mr. Jenkins has served as Deputy Assistant to the President and Director of Presidential Advance for the past two years.
Finance Committee Members:
Nancy and Rich Kinder of Texas, Finance Chairs Dawn and Al Hoffman of Florida, Honorary Finance Chairs Dawn and Roland Arnall of California, Finance Co-Chairs Marcie and Bruce Benson of Colorado, Finance Co-Chairs Sue Ellen and Joe Canizaro of California, Finance Co-Chairs Germaine and Jim Culbertson of North Carolina, Finance Co-Chairs Marilyn and Sam Fox of Missouri, Finance Co-Chairs Martha and Dwight Schar of Virginia, Finance Co-Chairs Patty and Roger Williams of Texas, Finance Co-Chairs
Please direct media inquiries to (202) 863-2005
  