
    
  Santorum Announces Social & Cultural Policy Agenda

Verona, PA - This afternoon, former Senator Rick Santorum (R-PA) launched the "Faith, Family, and Freedom Tour" in Urbandale, IA, where he unveiled the social and cultural policy agenda for a Santorum Administration.
As a husband and father, Rick Santorum knows the importance of protecting and providing for your family. He believes that at the core of the American experience is the family, and that without strong families, we cannot have a strong and vibrant nation. Senator Santorum believes that at its core, America is a moral enterprise, but that foundation is quickly eroding. As President, Rick Santorum commits to rebuild that foundation and lead the way on restoring traditional American values
Executive Orders, Rulemaking and other Executive Branch Actions

Repeal Clinton-era Title X family planning regulations, and will direct HHS to restore the separation of Title X family planning from abortion practices and restore a ban on referrals for abortion
Reinstitute the Mexico City Policy to stop tax-payer funding or promotion of abortion overseas
Ban federal funding for embryonic stem cell research
Restore conscience clause protections for health care workers
Defend the Defense of Marriage Act in court
Ban military chaplains from performing same sex marriage ceremonies on military bases or other Federal properties
Repeal Obamacare mandate for contraceptive services in healthcare plans
Re-direct funds within HHS so it can create a public/private partnership with state &local communities, not-for-profit organizations, and faith-based organizations for the purpose of strengthening marriages, families, and fatherhood
Veto any bill or budget that funds abortion or funds any organization that performs abortions including Planned Parenthood

Congressional Directives

Call on Congress to abolish the 9th Circuit Court of Appeals
Advocate for a Personhood Amendment to the Constitution
Call on Congress to pass the Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act
Advocate for a Federal Marriage Amendment to the Constitution
Call on Congress to reinstitute Don't Ask/Don't Tell
Call on Congress to pass the Workplace Religious Freedom Act
Call on Congress to reinstitute 2008-level funding for the Community Based Abstinence Education program
Advocate for a federal law permitting schools to allow prayer at graduations, football games and other school functions

During his time in elected office, Rick Santorum was the national leader for the preservation of the traditional American family and for the protection of the most vulnerable in our society. Rick led the fight to preserve the traditional family and American values:

Banned Partial-Birth Abortions
Authored the original Federal Marriage Amendment
Wrote and passed the "Born Alive Infant Protection Act" and the "Unborn Victims of Violence" Act
Led the fight for longer sentences for child predators
Named by Time magazine as one of the 25 most influential evangelical leaders

Senator Santorum said: "The economy is inextricably linked to the moral fabric of this country. And we can't have a real solution-based conversation about fixing the economic problems in this country without faith and family being a large part of that conversation.
It's wrong for anyone to try and reduce the idea of America solely to economy - because the spirit of America is much more than money - it's faith, family and freedom. The strength of the traditional family, the moral fabric of our nation, and basic value of human life greatly impact our economy. In fact, the family is the first economy, and without strong families we cannot have limited government, nor can we have a vibrant free market economy. Our Founders understood this basic fact, which is why the explicitly declared that our Rights come to each and every individual from God and not to a King to be spread around. Our Founders trusted in free people to make good and moral choices, and we must do that again today if we hope to remain a free and vibrant society."
Hogan Gidley, National Communications Director, said: "The next president must have the trust of the American people and must possess experience, knowledge, and ability to lead this nation forward. A President Santorum will be able to successfully address all major issues that confront this nation - the economic, the national security and the moral, cultural issues. The press would have you believe that the only issue is the economy - and yes, the economy is certainly a pressing issue - however, to have debates with no questions about the threat of a nuclear Iran and no questions about preserving the traditional American family is a disservice to American people. I will remind folks that in 2008, only one candidate - Tommy Thompson - received the lone health care related question in the presidential debates, and now, healthcare is the cornerstone issue of this election season. We must have a president ready to deal with all issues that come across his desk, and Rick Santorum is the one candidate prepared to do just that."
  