
    BEAUFORT, S.C. – New national polls released on Sunday show Democratic Party presidential candidate Bernie Sanders steadily gaining ground.
Sanders rose 13 points since last month in an ABC News/Washington Post poll released on Sunday. Former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton leads Sanders 60 percent to 34 percent, but her 26-point nationwide lead today shrank significantly from a 39-point edge she enjoyed only one month earlier.
"He's gained significantly among registered Democrats and Democrat leaners under age 50, runs closely with Clinton among liberals and has closed the margin, to some extent, among nonwhites and women – results that may give Clinton pause, if not palpitations," according to a news release by ABC and the Post.
Sanders also picked up two points compared to Clinton in a Fox News Poll released on Sunday. His 32 percent support in that survey was up seven points in the past month and was more than double his standing in a survey conducted by the same pollster before the U.S. senator from Vermont began his White House quest last April 30.
"There is overwhelming evidence from practically every public poll that Bernie Sanders is gaining ground and making progress in the Democratic primary," said Ben Tulchin, Sanders' pollster. "In fact, he is doing better against Hillary Clinton than Barack Obama was doing against Clinton at this stage of the campaign," added Tolchin, citing a recent Gallup poll.
In early caucus and primary states, Sanders was within seven points of Clinton among likely Iowa caucus goers in the most recent survey for Bloomberg and The Des Moines Register. In New Hampshire, Sanders has led Clinton in several surveys and a mid-November poll for Fox News had him one point up, 45-44.
In South Carolina, where Sanders on Sunday attended church services in North Charleston and hosted a town-hall style meeting here in Beaufort to wrap up a three-day campaign swing, a recent Monmouth University poll showed 66 percent of Democratic voters remained undecided.
To read more about the ABC News/Washington Post poll, click here.
To read more about the Fox News Poll, click here.
To read more about the NBC poll, click here.
  