
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate nine individuals to serve in his Administration.
The President intends to nominate Goli Ameri, of Oregon, to be Assistant Secretary of State (Educational and Cultural Affairs). Ms. Ameri most recently served as a Principal at ETinium, Inc. Prior to that she served as a Public Delegate to the 61st session of the United Nations Commission on Human Rights in Geneva, Switzerland. Earlier in her career, she served as Director of U.S. Leasing, a former division of Ford Motor Credit and Fleet Bank. Ms. Ameri received her bachelor's degree and master's degree from Stanford University.
The President intends to nominate Craig W. Duehring, of Minnesota, to be Assistant Secretary of the Air Force (Manpower and Reserve Affairs). Mr. Duehring currently serves as Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Reserve Affairs and Acting Assistant Secretary of the Air Force (Manpower and Reserve Affairs). Prior to this, he served as Executive Director of the Patrick Henry Center for Individual Liberty. Mr. Duehring received his bachelor's degree from Minnesota State University at Mankato and his master's degree from Troy State University.
The President intends to nominate Ana M. Guevara, of Florida, to be United States Alternate Executive Director of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Ms. Guevara currently serves as Deputy Assistant Secretary for Services in the Office of International Trade Administration at the Department of Commerce. Prior to this, she served as Vice President of Public Affairs for the Americas Region of the United Parcel Service. Earlier in her career, she served as a Special Assistant in the Office of the Assistant Secretary for Policy and International Affairs at the Department of Transportation. Ms. Guevara received her bachelor's degree from the George Washington University.
The President intends to nominate Tracy Ralph Justesen, of Utah, to be Assistant Secretary for Special Education and Rehabilitative Services at the Department of Education. Mr. Justesen currently serves as Deputy Director of the National Institute on Disability and Rehabilitation Research at the Department of Education. Prior to this, he served as an Attorney-Advisor in the Disability Rights Section at the Department of Justice. Earlier in his career, he served as an Associate Director in the Domestic Policy Council at the White House. Mr. Justesen received his bachelor's degree from Southern Utah University and his master's degree from Utah State University. He received his JD from Drake University and his LLM from The George Washington University.
The President intends to nominate Eric M. Thorson, of Virginia, to be Inspector General at the Department of the Treasury. Mr. Thorson currently serves as Inspector General of the Small Business Administration. Prior to this, he served as Chief Investigator for the Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigation and for the Senate Committee on Finance. Earlier in his career, he served as Special Assistant to the Republican Leader in the United States Senate. Mr. Thorson received his bachelor's degree from the United States Air Force Academy.
The President intends to nominate Neel T. Kashkari, of California, to be Assistant Secretary of the Treasury (International Affairs). Mr. Kashkari recently served as Senior Advisor to the Secretary at the Department of the Treasury. Prior to this, he served as Vice President of Goldman, Sachs & Co. Earlier in his career, he served as a Research and Development Principal Investigator at TRW. Mr. Kashkari received his bachelor's degree and master's degree from the University of Illinois. He received his MBA from the University of Pennsylvania.
The President intends to nominate the following individuals to be Members of the Reform Board (AMTRAK) for five-year terms:
Thomas C. Carper, of Illinois;
Nancy A. Naples, of New York;
Denver Stutler, Jr., of Florida.
  