
    WASHINGTON - Today, President Obama nominated Judge Timothy S. Hillman, Judge Robin S. Rosenbaum and Robert J. Shelby to serve on the United States District Court bench.
"Throughout their careers, these nominees have displayed unwavering commitment to justice and integrity," said President Obama. "Their records of service to the public and the legal profession are distinguished and impressive and I am confident that they will serve the American people well from the United States District Court bench. I am honored to nominate them today."
Judge Timothy S. Hillman: Nominee for the United States District Court for the District of Massachusetts
Judge Timothy S. Hillman has been a United States Magistrate Judge for the District of Massachusetts since 2006. Previously, Judge Hillman served as a Justice on the Massachusetts Superior Court from 1998 to 2006 and a Justice on the Massachusetts District Court from 1991 to 1998. Prior to his service on the Massachusetts courts, Judge Hillman was in private practice for over a decade and served as City Solicitor to the cities of Fitchburg and Gardner and Town Counsel to the towns of Athol, Lunenburg, and Petersham, all in Massachusetts. He received his J.D. in 1973 from Suffolk University Law School and his B.A. in 1970 from Coe College in Cedar Rapids, Iowa.
Judge Robin S. Rosenbaum: Nominee for the United States District Court for the Southern District of Florida
Judge Robin S. Rosenbaum is a United States Magistrate Judge for the Southern District of Florida, a position she has held since 2007. From 1998 until her appointment to the bench, Judge Rosenbaum was an Assistant United States Attorney in the same district, where she served as Chief of the Economic Crimes Section in the Fort Lauderdale office beginning in 2002. Before joining the United States Attorney's Office, Judge Rosenbaum clerked for Judge Stanley Marcus on the United States Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit in 1998, worked as a litigation associate at Holland & Knight from 1996 to 1997, and served as staff counsel at the Office of the Independent Counsel in Washington, D.C. from 1995 to 1996. She began her legal career as a trial attorney at the Federal Programs Branch of the United States Department of Justice from 1991 to 1995. Judge Rosenbaum received her J.D. magna cum laude in 1991 from the University of Miami School of Law and her B.A. in 1988 from Cornell University.
Robert J. Shelby: Nominee for the United States District Court for the District of Utah
Robert J. Shelby is currently a shareholder at the Salt Lake City law firm of Snow, Christensen & Martineau, where his practice focuses on complex commercial litigation and catastrophic personal injury cases on behalf of both plaintiffs and defendants in state, federal, and administrative courts throughout the country. Shelby was an associate at Snow, Christensen & Martineau from 2000 to 2005 and returned to the firm earlier this year as a shareholder. In the intervening years, Shelby was a partner at another Salt Lake City firm, Burbridge Mitchell & Gross. He began his legal career as a law clerk to the Honorable J. Thomas Greene in the United States District Court for the District of Utah. Shelby received his J.D. in 1998 from the University of Virginia School of Law and his B.A. in 1994 from Utah State University.
  