
    "Together, our two nations will handle threats to peace and security, stand up to those who would threaten our freedom, and boldly seize the incredible opportunities for a better, brighter, and more prosperous tomorrow." – President Donald J. Trump
STRENGTHEN INTERNATIONAL RESOLVE TO DENUCLEARIZE NORTH KOREA: President Donald J. Trump strengthened international resolve to address the security challenges presented by North Korea.

The United States and Republic of Korea urged North Korea to abandon its illicit weapons of mass destruction and ballistic missile programs that deepen its diplomatic and economic isolation.
The United States and Republic of Korea reaffirmed their commitment to the Maximum Pressure Campaign to bring North Korea back to the path of denuclearization.
President Trump emphasized the United States' priority of defending the Republic of Korea against North Korean aggression, and reaffirmed the commitment of the United States to enhancing United States strategic asset deployment on a rotational basis. 
President Trump and President Moon welcomed the adoption of the Republic of Korea's Revised Missile Guidelines (2017) to remove Republic of Korea missile payload restrictions to combat the North Korean threat. 
The two leaders pledged to boost trilateral security cooperation with Japan for enhanced deterrence and defense against North Korean aggression.

PROMOTE A FREE AND OPEN INDO-PACIFIC REGION: President Trump strengthened the United States-Republic of Korea alliance, which contributes to a free and open Indo-Pacific.

The President delivered clear public messages that the United States-Republic of Korea alliance, which is built on mutual trust and shared values of freedom, democracy, human rights, and rule of law, remains the linchpin of security, stability, and prosperity in the Indo-Pacific region.
President Trump and President Moon committed to strengthening alliance defense and deterrence capabilities, including through the Republic of Korea's acquisition and development of highly advanced military assets to counter North Korean aggression, which now threatens the entire world. 

ADVANCE AMERICA'S PROSPERITY: President Trump promoted American prosperity and trade, including through new investments and energy sales that will lead to more American jobs.

The two leaders stated their commitment to improving the Korea-United States Free Trade Agreement (KORUS) and to reducing the United States' trade deficit with the Republic of Korea and achieving balanced and reciprocal trade between the two countries.
On November 8, Republic of Korea companies announced 64 new projects, worth over $17 billion, in the United States over the next four years and plans to purchase $58 billion in United States goods and services, including $23 billion in energy purchases. 
President Trump and President Moon praised robust Korean investment in the United States, which will result in thousands of jobs for Americans.

  