
    The following list does not include promotions of members of the Uniformed Services, nominations to the Service Academies, or nominations of Foreign Service officers.
Submitted November 7 [xix]1
Donald J. Barry, of Wisconsin, to be Assistant Secretary for Fish and Wildlife, vice George T. Frampton, Jr., resigned.
Robert T. Dawson, of Arkansas, to be U.S. District Judge for the Western District of Arkansas, vice H. Franklin Waters, retired.
Joan Avalyn Dempsey, of Virginia, to be Deputy Director of Central Intelligence for Community Management (new position).
Alan Greenspan, of New York, to be U.S. Alternate Governor of the International Monetary Fund for a term of 5 years (reappointment).
Winter D. Horton, Jr., of Utah, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for Public Broadcasting for a term expiring January 31, 2002, vice Carolyn R. Bacon, term expired.
Elaine D. Kaplan,
of the District of Columbia, to be Special Counsel, Office of Special Counsel, for the term of 5 years, vice Kathleen Day Koch, term expired.
Wilma A. Lewis,
of the District of Columbia, to be U.S. Attorney for the District of Columbia, vice Eric H. Holder, Jr., resigned.
Robert J. Shapiro,
of the District of Columbia, to be Under Secretary of Commerce for Economic Affairs, vice Everett M. Ehrlich.
Withdrawn November 7 [xx]1
James S. Ware, of California, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the Ninth Circuit, vice J. Clifford Wallace, retired, which was sent to the Senate on June 27, 1997.
Submitted November 8
Ronald M. Gould, of Washington, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the Ninth Circuit, vice Robert R. Beezer, retired.
Sam A. Lindsay, of Texas, to be U.S. District Judge for the Northern District of Texas (new position).
Barry G. Silverman, of Arizona, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the Ninth Circuit, vice William Cameron Canby, Jr., retired.
Orson Swindle, of Hawaii, to be a Federal Trade Commissioner for the term of 7 years from September 26, 1997, vice Roscoe Burton Starek III, term expired.
Donna Tanoue, of Hawaii, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation for the remainder of the term expiring October 3, 2000, vice Ricki Rhodarmer Tigert, resigned.
Donna Tanoue, of Hawaii, to be Chairperson of the Board of Directors of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation for a term of 5 years, vice Ricki Rhodarmer Tigert, resigned.
Mozelle Willmont Thompson,
of New York to be a Federal Trade Commissioner for the term of 7 years from September 26, 1996, vice Christine A. Varney, resigned.
Joseph Robert Brame III, of Virginia, to be a member of the National Labor Relations Board for the term of 5 years expiring August 27, 2000, vice James M. Stephens, term expired.
Sarah McCracken Fox, of New York, to be a member of the National Labor Relations Board for the term of 5 years expiring December 16, 1999, vice John C. Truesdale.
Cyril Kent McGuire, of New Jersey, to be Assistant Secretary for Educational Research and Improvement, Department of Education, vice Sharon Porter Robinson, resigned.
Withdrawn November 8
Joseph Robert Brame III, of Virginia, to be a member of the National Labor Relations Board for the term of 5 years expiring December 16, 1999, vice John C. Truesdale, which was sent to the Senate on October 28, 1997.
Sarah McCracken Fox, of New York,
to be a member of the National Labor Relations Board for the term of 5 years expiring August 27, 2000, vice James M. Stephens, term expired, which was sent to the Senate on January 9, 1997.
  