
    
  Scores With Voters On Immigration And National Security

HOUSTON, Texas – By almost all accounts Presidential candidate Ted Cruz was one of – if not the – big winner from last night's Republican Presidential Debate in Milwaukee.  Below is a sample of what people are saying:
"Ted Cruz wins the night... Ted Cruz had a terrific night. He had a stand-out answer on immigration and wages and made his own fortune by getting into an argument with John Kasich on bank bailouts, enunciating the anti-bailout position forcefully and repeatedly...He was pointed, eloquent, and, of course, very conservative." – Rich Lowry
"Cruz really won tonight. He had just a stellar performance. Every word was memorable. Every line was precisely delivered. His defense of his tax plan was solid." – Erick Erickson
"I thought Ted Cruz was very strong.  I thought he had substantive answers that were well delivered...I thought he was just impressive." – Bill Kristol
"Ted Cruz, fabulous night. He followed up on a great night in the previous debate. He had more time than he had in other debates. I think you got to see the knowledge and substance and passion. I would say by far Ted Cruz probably had the best night of everybody." – Sean Hannity
".@TedCruz just hit 94 by saying all the rules that apply to America will apply to Congress." – Frank Luntz
".@TedCruz scores big (hits 98) with 'I'm tired of being told I'm anti-immigrant. It's offensive.' Actually outscores Trump on immigration."  – Frank Luntz
"I think it goes Cruz, Rubio, Fiorina." – Bret Baier
"Cruz is showing why so many insiders think he'll eventually be in the final two or three when the field winnows" – Chuck Todd
"I think that is the best moment Ted Cruz had in the debate last night was talking about immigration in the way he did."  – John McCormack
"[Cruz] had a very good night." – Jonah Goldberg
"Ted Cruz proved that he didn't need to assault the media to turn in an impressive performance... it was the strong answer to the bailout question that put him over the top in my view. The contrast was obvious... none of [the other candidates] gave a clear answer on what they would do differently in the same situation. Then Cruz absolutely dominated it." – Ben Domenech
  