
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate 18 individuals to serve in his administration:
The President intends to nominate Jonathan Steven Adelstein, of South Dakota, to be a Commissioner for the Federal Communications Commission, for the remainder of a five-year term expiring June 30, 2008. Mr. Adelstein has served as Commissioner of the Federal Communications Commission since 2002. Before joining the FCC, he served as a senior legislative aide to Senator Tom Daschle. Earlier in his career, Mr. Adelstein was a teaching fellow in the History Department at Harvard University and a teaching assistant in the History Department at Stanford University. He received his bachelor's degree and master's degree from Stanford University.
The President intends to nominate Harold Jennings Creel, Jr., of South Carolina, to be a Commissioner of the Federal Maritime Commission, for the remainder of a five-year term expiring June 30, 2009. Mr. Creel has served as Commissioner of the Federal Maritime Commission since 1994. He served as the Commission's Chairman from 1996 to 2002. Prior to his appointment to the Commission, Mr. Creel was the Senior Counsel of the Merchant Marine Subcommittee of the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation. Earlier in his career, he was an attorney with the National Oceanic and Atmosphere Administration at the Department of Commerce. Mr. Creel received his bachelor's degree from Wofford College and his J.D. from the University of South Carolina School of Law.
The President intends to nominate Patricia Cushwa, of Maryland, to be a Member of the United States Parole Commission for a six-year term. Ms. Cushwa currently serves as Chair and Commissioner of the Maryland Parole Commission. Prior to her appointment to the Commission, she was a member of the adjunct faculty at Hagerstown Community College. Earlier in her career, Ms. Cushwa served in the Maryland State Senate. She received her bachelor's degree and master's degree from Hood College. The President intends to nominate Michael V. Dunn, of Iowa, to be a Commissioner of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, for the remainder of a five-year term expiring June 19, 2006. Mr. Dunn currently works on the Senate Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry Committee. He previously served as Commissioner and Director of the Office of Policy and Analysis at the Farm Credit Administration. Earlier in his career, Mr. Dunn served as Under Secretary for Marketing and Regulatory Programs at the Department of Agriculture. He received his bachelor's degree and his master's degree from the University of New Mexico.
The President intends to nominate Tony Hammond, of Virginia, to be a Commissioner of the Postal Rate Commission, for a six-year term expiring October 14, 2010. Mr. Hammond currently serves as Vice Chairman and Commissioner of the Postal Rate Commission. He previously owned and managed T. Hammond Company, a private consulting firm based in Arlington, Virginia. Mr. Hammond also served as Senior Vice President of the direct marketing firm, Feather, Larson & Synhorst. He earned his bachleor's degree from Southwest Missouri State University.
The President intends to nominate Albert Henry Konetzni, Jr., of New York, to be a Member of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, for the remainder of a five-year term expiring June 30, 2009. Vice Admiral Konetzni retired from the United States Navy in July 2004, after 38 years as a Nuclear Submariner. He served as Deputy Commander of the U.S. Fleet Forces Command and U.S. Atlantic Fleet. Admiral Konetzni received his bachelor's degree from the United States Naval Academy and his master's degree from The George Washington University.
The President intends to nominate Dallas Tonsager, of South Dakota, to be a Member of the Farm Credit Administration Board, for the remainder of a six-year term expiring May 21, 2010. Mr. Tonsager currently works as Executive Director of the South Dakota Value Added Agriculture Development Center. He previously served as owner of Golden Plains Ventures and Tonsager Consulting. Earlier in his career, Mr. Tonsager was the South Dakota State Director for Rural Development at the Department of Agriculture. He received his bachelor's degree from South Dakota State University.
The President intends to nominate Raymond Thomas Wagner, Jr., of Missouri, to be a Member of the Internal Revenue Service Oversight Board for a five-year term expiring September 14, 2009.
The President intends to nominate Jay T. Snyder of New York, to be a Member of the United States Advisory Commission on Public Diplomacy for a three-year term expiring July 1, 2007.
The President intends to nominate Ernest J. Wilson, III, of Maryland, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for Public Broadcasting for the remainder of a six-year term expiring January 31, 2010.
The President intends to nominate Sharon Tucker, of Georgia, to be a Member of the Board of Trustees of the Harry S Truman Scholarship Foundation (Postsecondary Education Representatives) for the remainder of a six-year term expiring December 19, 2005.
The President intends to nominate the following individuals to be Members of the Board of Trustees of the Barry Goldwater Scholarship and Excellence in Education Foundation:
Laurie Stenberg Nichols, of South Dakota, for the remainder of a six-year term expiring March 11, 2010
Edward Alton Parrish, of Virginia, for the remainder of a six-year term expiring April 17, 2008
Charles P. Ruch, of South Dakota, for the remainder of a six-year term expiring August 11, 2010
The President intends to nominate the following individuals to be Members of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for National and Community Service:
Jacob Joseph Lew, of New York, for the remainder of a five-year term expiring October 6, 2008
Mimi Mager, of the District of Columbia, for the remainder of a five-year term expiring December 27, 2007
The President intends to nominate the following individuals to be Members of the Broadcasting Board of Governors:
D. Jeffrey Hirschberg, of Wisconsin, for a three-year term expiring August 13, 2007
Kenneth Y. Tomlinson, of Virginia, to be a Member and Chairman for a three-year term expiring August 13, 2007
The President intends to appoint John Salamone, of Virginia, to be a Member of the Board of Trustees of the Christopher Columbus Fellowship Foundation (Recommendation of the Minority Leader of the Senate) for a six-year term expiring October 2, 2010.
  