
    A Policy Of Strength, Not Dining With Dictators
"We are long past the time for political correctness and accommodation of Ahmadinejad's and his regime's outrageous rhetoric and support for terror. It is time to speak clearly and frankly, to strengthen alliances and build new ones, and to act with unity and decisiveness against a regime that threatens to reintroduce the world to the horrors of nuclear devastation and genocide." – Gov. Mitt Romney (Romney For President, Press Release, 9/24/07)
THE ROMNEY VISION: DEFEATING THE JIHADIST THREAT THROUGH STRENGTH
Gov. Romney Supports All Options To Prevent A Nuclear Iran:
Gov. Romney Believes It Is "Unacceptable" For Iran To Have Nuclear Weapons. "[Gov. Romney] added: 'That's an option that's on the table. And it's is not something which we'll spell out specifically. I really can't lay out exactly how that would be done, but we have a number of options from blockade to bombardment of some kind. And that's something we very much have to keep on the table, and we will ready ourselves to be able to take, because, frankly, I think it's unacceptable for Iran to have nuclear weapons.'" (Glen Johnson, "Romney: 'Bombardment' Of Iran Must Be Option To Stop It Getting Nuclear Weapons," The Associated Press, 10/25/07)
- Gov. Romney: "If For Some Reasons They Continue Down Their Course Of Folly Toward Nuclear Ambition, Then I Would Take Military Action If That's Available To Us." (Glen Johnson, "Romney: 'Bombardment' Of Iran Must Be Option To Stop It Getting Nuclear Weapons," The Associated Press, 10/25/07)

Gov. Romney Has A Comprehensive Plan To Prevent A Nuclear Iran:
Gov. Romney Is The Only Presidential Candidate Who Has Proposed A Comprehensive Plan To Prevent A Nuclear Iran. "In January 2007 at the Herzilya Conference In Israel Governor Romney outlined a plan that will tighten economic sanctions against the Iranian regime, isolate Iran diplomatically and indict Iran's President Ahmadinejad for inciting genocide, enlist Arab states to join our efforts, make clear to the Iranian people the peril of acquiring nuclear capabilities, and maintain the military option." (Romney For President, "Defeating The Jihadist Threat," Press Release, 10/17/07)
- Click Here To Read Governor Romney's Remarks On His Iran Strategy.

SEN. OBAMA: TAKE OPTIONS OFF THE TABLE, SIT DOWN WITH DICTATORS
Sen. Barack Obama Would Not Take A Strong Stance On Stopping A Nuclear Iran:
Sen. Obama Suggests He Doesn't Support Regime Change In Iran. "Senator Barack Obama says he would 'engage in aggressive personal diplomacy' with Iran if elected president and would offer economic inducements and a possible promise not to seek 'regime change' if Iran stopped meddling in Iraq and cooperated on terrorism and nuclear issues." (Michael R. Gordon and Jeff Zeleny, "Obama Envisions New Iran Approach," The New York Times, 11/2/07)
Sen. Obama Said He Would Talk To Iran Without Preconditions. "Making clear that he planned to talk to Iran without preconditions, Mr. Obama emphasized further that 'changes in behavior' by Iran could possibly be rewarded with membership in the World Trade Organization, other economic benefits and security guarantees." (Michael R. Gordon and Jeff Zeleny, "Obama Envisions New Iran Approach," The New York Times, 11/2/07)
- Sen. Obama Said The Talks Would Be Done To Show "Good Faith." "'We are willing to talk about certain assurances in the context of them showing some good faith,' [Obama] said in the interview at his campaign headquarters here. 'I think it is important for us to send a signal that we are not hellbent on regime change, just for the sake of regime change, but expect changes in behavior. And there are both carrots and there are sticks available to them for those changes in behavior.'" (Michael R. Gordon and Jeff Zeleny, "Obama Envisions New Iran Approach," The New York Times, 11/2/07)

Sen. Obama Has Repeatedly Said He Would Meet With Leaders Of Rogue Nations:
Sen. Obama Said One Of The First Things He Would Do If Elected Is Meet With Leaders Of Rogue Nations. OBAMA: "And I think that it is a disgrace that we have not spoken to them. We've been talking about Iraq -- one of the first things that I would do in terms of moving a diplomatic effort in the region forward is to send a signal that we need to talk to Iran and Syria because they're going to have responsibilities if Iraq collapses." (CNN/YouTube Democratic Presidential Debate, 7/24/07)
- Sen. Obama: "I Would. And The Reason Is This, That The Notion That Somehow Not Talking To Countries Is Punishment To Them – Which Has Been The Guiding Diplomatic Principle Of This Administration – Is Ridiculous." (CNN/YouTube Democratic Presidential Debate, 7/24/07)

  