
    GOOD evening. It is nice to see you all. I am delighted and pleased to be in West Virginia again and have an opportunity to answer a question or two, if you have any.
REPORTER. What is your reaction, sir, to the U.N. action on the Zionism resolution?
THE PRESIDENT. I have spoken out very strongly against it, and Secretary Kissinger has done likewise. And of course, Ambassador Moynihan made a very strong speech last night during the debate. It is something that this Government strongly opposes.
Q. Mr. President, do you favor any sort of punitive action toward either the United Nations or the countries who supported the resolution?
THE PRESIDENT. We, of course, will be completely firm in our position. We, of course, would look at how the situation was handled there and the nations that vigorously proposed it, but I wouldn't want to make any specific comments at this time.
Q. You are leaving open the option possibly that you might want to take specific action at some later date?
THE PRESIDENT. I wouldn't say how I would describe the action, but certainly I am disappointed with the action that was taken.
Q. Are you concerned, sir, that any action the United States might take in a punitive form, such as cutting the aid to countries who supported the resolution, might harm the chances of peace in the Middle East?
THE PRESIDENT. I wouldn't want to get into the details of that. It doesn't seem to me that we should make any snap judgments. We did strongly oppose the U.N. resolution, and we will take whatever the appropriate action is as we move
ahead in the area of trying to achieve peace in the Middle East.
Q. Mr. President, what effect will this have on.-
THE PRESIDENT. Are you one of the local people, Walt [Walter Rodgers, Associated Press Radio]?
Q. What effect does this have on the possibility of reaching a Middle East peace and a further negotiated settlement there?
THE PRESIDENT. We, of course, will continue to make our efforts in the Middle East for a long and fair and stable peace in the Middle East. I wouldn't want to pass judgment on that question at this time, but our efforts will continue in that area.
Thank you very, very much. It is nice to see you.
  