
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Romney Press Shop (857) 288-6390
Boston, MA – Governor Mitt Romney today announced that Jacksonville Sheriff John H. Rutherford, Nassau County Sheriff T.L. "Tommy" Seagraves and St. Johns County Sheriff David Shoar have endorsed his candidacy for President of the United States.
"I am honored to have the support of Sheriffs Rutherford, Seagraves and Shoar. All three are widely respected leaders in the Florida law enforcement community and tremendous public servants," said Governor Romney. "In addition to keeping our children, families and local communities safe, we agree that local law enforcement plays an increasingly vital role in keeping our homeland and borders secure. As President, I am committed to ensuring they have the resources needed to protect the American people."
Sheriffs Rutherford, Seagraves and Shoar join Collier County Sheriff Don Hunter, who also recently endorsed Governor Romney.
In a joint statement, the sheriffs said, "In Massachusetts, Governor Romney was a staunch advocate for state and local law enforcement and has a strong record on law enforcement issues ranging from helping enable state troopers to enforce immigration laws to imposing tougher penalties on dangerous sex offenders. As a candidate, Governor Romney is the only individual in the race who continues to propose substantive solutions to the challenges we face as a nation, both domestically and abroad. We are proud to support Governor Romney because he has the experience, values and vision needed to lead America in the right direction."
Northeast Floridians leading Governor Romney's campaign in the state include Florida Steering Committee Chair John Thrasher, former Speaker of the Florida House of Representatives, and Steering Committee Co-Chair Jennifer Carroll, a state legislator representing parts of Duval and Clay Counties. Additional area leadership includes State Senator Stephen Wise and State Representatives Don Davis and Dick Kravitz, Jacksonville Mayor John Peyton, former U.S. Ambassador John Rood, Jacksonville City Councilman Art Shad and former Jacksonville City Councilman Lake Ray.
Background On Jacksonville Sheriff John H. Rutherford:
John Rutherford Was Elected Sheriff Of Jacksonville In 2003 And Subsequently Reelected Earlier This Year. Sheriff Rutherford is a 33-year veteran of the Jacksonville Sheriff's Office. He is a graduate of The Florida State University, the FBI National Academy, and the National Executive Institute. He is currently Chairman of the Law Enforcement Committee of the Regional Domestic Security Task Force. John is also Chair of the Legislative Committee of the Florida Sheriff's Association. Sheriff Rutherford has served on the board of the Jacksonville Community Council, Inc., Seamark Ranch, Inc and the Justice Coalition and is a past president of the Northeast Florida Law Enforcement Executive Association.
Background On Nassau County Sheriff T.L. "Tommy" Seagraves:
T.L. "Tommy" Seagraves Was Elected Nassau County Sheriff In 2004. Sheriff Seagraves is a native of Nassau County and a veteran of the United States Air Force Reserve. He has served in the Nassau County Sheriffs Office for more than 20 years, including previously serving as Under-Sheriff, Major of Corrections and Narcotics Commander and Marine Unit Supervisor. Sheriff Seagraves is a graduate of the F.B.I. National Academy and the Northeast Florida Criminal Justice Center.
Background On St. Johns County Sheriff David Shoar:
David Shoar Was Elected St. Johns County Sheriff In 2004. Sheriff Shoar has served as a member of the St. Johns' law enforcement community for more than 25 years, including serving the St. Augustine Police Department as Chief of Police from 2000-2004. Sheriff Shoar is a graduate of the F.B.I. National Academy and a 24-year veteran of the Florida Army National Guard. He has served on a number of professional boards, including the St. Johns County Task Force on Domestic Violence, University of North Florida's advisory council for the Institute of Local Government, Florida FBI National Academy Associates.
  