
    First Lady Melania Trump traveled with her husband to Paris, France to commemorate the 100th anniversary of Armistice that ended World War I. Upon arrival, the President and First Lady were greeted by the United States Ambassador to the French Republic, Jamie McCourt; Prefect of Val-de-Marne Department, Laurent Prevost; Chief of Protocol of the French Republic, Ambassador Frederic Billet; Director for Protocol Airport, Françoise Pichon; and French Republic Ambassador to the United States, Gérard Araud.
On Saturday, Mrs. Trump traveled to the Élysée Palace, joining Mrs. Macron for a brief tour of the Palace before joining President Trump and President Macron for a private lunch.
Due to inclement weather, the First Lady and President were unable to visit the Aisne-Marne American Cemetery and Memorial in Belleau, France. The cemetery contains the graves of 2,289 American heroes, and inscribed on the walls of the Memorial Chapel are the names of 1,060 missing American Soldiers from the War.
In the evening, the First Lady joined her husband for a dinner hosted by President Macron and Mrs. Macron at the Musée d'Orsay. Additional attendees of the dinner included members of several foreign delegations and their spouses.
On Sunday morning, the First Lady and the President attended France's "Centennial of the 1918 Armistice Day" ceremony with President Macron and Mrs. Macron at the Arc de Triomphe on the Champs Élysées.
Following the ceremony, the First Lady attended a spousal luncheon at the Palace of Versailles. Upon arrival, Mrs. Trump was welcomed by Mrs. Macron. The First Lady participated in a family photo followed by a luncheon in the Salon de Venus – one of the many historic rooms of the Palace.
"Thank you to President Macron and Mrs. Macron for a beautiful celebration of our countries to commemorate the end of World War I," said First Lady Melania Trump. "We will never forget the sacrifices made for the freedoms we enjoy today. We remember and honor the heroic efforts made not only by our brave men in uniform at that time, but of all the American people who came together in this great time of need."
  