
    Steve Grubbs, the Iowa Chairman for the Herman Cain for President Campaign announced today that the organizational effort in Iowa had reached a significant milestone: 800 precinct captains across the state.
"Our entire grassroots team continues their sprint to the caucuses. On October 20th, the campaign started with 30 precinct captains and less than a month later, has successfully reached 800 precinct captains across the state," said Steve Grubbs, Iowa campaign chair. "I want to congratulate Larry Tuel and his Des Moines staff for their herculean effort. People have wondered if four paid staffers could get the job done of much larger staffs, but with our legion of passionate grassroots volunteers, we are seeing a true revolution in American politics."
There are roughly 1600 precincts in Iowa and each one will hold a Republican caucus on January 3rd. Some urban caucuses will be combined with other precincts making the job of organizing a little easier.
"The rapid growth of our organizational effort in Iowa shows that despite whatever challenges may present themselves, the Cain Campaign is charging ahead," said Mark Block, Chief Political Strategist and Chief of Staff for the campaign effort. "Our social media model delivered roughly 25 percent of our Iowa precinct captains which is a tribute to our people and the new model of campaigning in the United States."
With less than six weeks before the First-in-the-Nation Iowa Caucuses, the Iowa Cain team still has a big task in front of it. "We are filling our Des Moines phone bank with volunteers every day and using our Internet-based phone system as well to leverage our volunteers across the state," said Larry Tuel, State Director for the Iowa Cain campaign.
"As a point of comparison, when I worked with the Dole and Forbes campaigns, we spent six to eight months getting our precinct captains lined up. I believe the Cain campaign will accomplish the same thing in about eight weeks," said Grubbs. "People have doubted this campaign from the beginning, but people are ready to put a CEO in the White House and get this economy turned around."
Phone bank director, Steven Hensler, has headed up the phone calling in Iowa along with Lisa Lockwood and Zach Dalluge.
For More Information:
J.D. Gordon, Vice President of Campaign Communications
Friends of Herman Cain, Inc.
  