
    CONCORD, NH — Michael Bennet officially filed to be on the ballot for the New Hampshire presidential primary today, joined by supporters at the State House in Concord. Bennet for America also announced new endorsements from New Hampshire community leaders, some of whom were on hand for the filing.
"As a former school superintendent, I wake up every day and go to bed every night thinking about how we can build a better future for our kids, and I'm running for president to ensure we leave more to the next generation," said Bennet. "As the only candidate to win two national races in a state that's only one-third Democrats, I also know what it takes to win in a purple state like New Hampshire and what it's going to take to beat Donald Trump in 2020. While other candidates may be turning their backs on the Granite State, I'm expanding my operation here and meeting voters where they are as they play a critical role in selecting our nominee."
Former U.S. Senator Gary Hart — who won an insurgent victory in New Hampshire during the 1984 Democratic presidential primary — endorsed Bennet in September at the New Hampshire Democratic Party State Convention. Will Kanteres, a key aide to Hart's campaign and a Manchester business owner and community leader, endorsed Bennet today.
"Michael Bennet's experience in the U.S. Senate and as superintendent of the Denver schools has taught him that the best solutions do not just address the immediate symptoms of a problem, but rather provide the roadmap and tools necessary for long-term solutions," said Kanteres. "He is running not just for our generation but for a better future for our children. Michael is also the best candidate to beat Donald Trump in a purple state like New Hampshire and help Democrats win up and down the ballot."
Other new community leader endorsements include:

Lucy Hodder, UNH School of Law Professor & Former Legal Counsel to then-Governor Maggie Hassan
Molly Shaheen, Designer & Entrepreneur
Maria Law, Partner, Rath & Pignatelli
Rick Loeffler, Small Business Owner
Pete Spanos, Democratic Activist
Mike Steinberg, CEO & Founder, Relyco
Meryl Levin, Executive Director, Mill Falls Charter School
Sheridan Brown, Attorney & Conservation Activist
Mary Reudig, Democratic Activist
Kyri Claflin, Retired Professor & Voting Rights Activist
Nancy Vawter, Small Business Owner
Kathie Latham, Nashua Public School Teacher

Bennet's latest visit comes as praise continues to mount in the Granite State. Last month, New Hampshire DNC Committee Member Bill Shaheen said Bennet "would be a terrific choice for president," and the Union Leader editorial board wrote that Bennet "continues to impress here in New Hampshire...."
Bennet will also speak with voters today at meet and greets hosted by Relyco CEO & Founder Mike Steinberg in Dover and State Rep. Marjorie Smith in Durham.
  