
    Pool Reports by Meryl Kornfield, The Washington Post 



Sent:
Reports:




November 22, 2022
[APP Note: Report #1 does not exist or was not received by the APP.]


November 22, 202210:35 PHST

VP travel pool report #2 - rolling
We are rolling at 10:33 a.m.



November 22, 202211:04 PHST

VP travel pool report #3 - airport
The Vice President and Second Gentleman stepped out of the motorcade at 10:53 a.m. They posed with members of the advance team in front of Air Force Two, before shaking hands with the greeters listed below. The pooler was too far away to hear anything that was said. They then climbed the stairs and turned back to wave at the pool and entered the plane.
Greeters upon departure from Manila- Ambassador MaryKay L. Carlson, U.S. Ambassador to the Republic of the Philippines- Heather Variava, Deputy Chief of Mission, U.S.Embassy Philippines



November 22, 202211:06 PHST

VP travel pool report #4 - village background
On background from a White House Official
The Vice President is visiting Tagburos village in Palawan to speak with local leaders, fishers, and community members supporting sustainable fisheries.
Tagburos is one of 431 villages in Palawan, and is home to about 1500 fisher families. About half of the fish supply of Puerto Princesa comes from Tagburos.Sustainable fisheries fuel coastal economies like those in the Philippines and across the globe.
Unsustainable fishing practices perpetuate a cycle of poverty and natural resource depletion. USAID Fish Right's interventions are designed to advance sustainable and resilient fisheries, anchored on improving the resilience of small-scale fishers. Fish Right is a five-year, $28 million flagship program of USAID on sustainable fisheries management and marine biodiversity conservation in the Philippines that builds on several decades of USAID's environment assistance. USAID Fish Right provides direct assistance to fishing communities that are vulnerable to diminished resources as a result of Illegal, Unreported and Unregulated (IUU) fishing, further compounded by the impacts of climate change.
As one of USAID Fish Right's learning innovation hubs in the West Philippine Sea, USAID will support Tagburos through a multifaceted set of resilience interventions that includes IUU assessment and risk reduction planning, ensuring resilience of fish stocks, systematic marine protected area network designing, and improving fish catch through appropriate harvest controls. The program will also boost the community's resilience by putting in place safety nets in fishing communities such as: improving fishers' financial literacy; establishing market linkages between fishers and government agencies, academic institutions and private sector; setting up community savings associations, and developing micro enterprises to lessen their dependence on marine resources. The program pays special focus on women's inclusion and empowerment so they are able to play a significant role in managing marine resources sustainably.
Following the establishment of Fisheries Management Areas (FMA) by the Department of Agriculture-Bureau of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources (DA-BFAR) delineating Philippine waters into 12 FMAs, the program is shifting its focus to the West Philippine Sea where fisheries resources are further challenged due to encroachment by large-scale, domestic fishing fleets on the nearshore fishing grounds of small-scale fishers due to competition and harassment from foreign maritime forces and private fishing vessels. As a priority seascape, the West Philippine Sea is home to one of the largest reef areas in the South China Sea; and is the source of 27 percent of the Philippines' total fisheries catch. USAID Fish Right advances a collaborative and multi-disciplinary approach to sustainable fisheries management in the West Philippine Sea to enhance platforms for the effective use of science data in policies and management actions.



November 22, 202211:09 PHST

VP travel pool report #5 - embargoed speech
Excerpts from the VP's remarks at the Philippine Coast Guard engagement below.
Embargoed until delivery:
To uphold international rules and norms, is to support the lives and livelihoods of people throughout the region.
[…]
However, the vitality of communities like this is at risk. Communities like this have seen the consequences when foreign vessels enter Philippine waters and illegally deplete the fishing stock, when they harass and intimidate local fishers, when they pollute the ocean, and destroy the marine ecosystem.
Illegal, unreported, and unregulated, fishing—also called IUU fishing--is far too common across the world's oceans. It presents a direct threat to coastal eco-systems and economies.
To help address these maritime issues, the United States is proud to have a strong partnership with the Philippines which includes the training recently conducted on this very ship with the Philippine Coast Guard and U.S. service members. And today, I am pleased to announce additional areas of cooperation.
[…]
In addition, we have stepped up efforts to provide countries in the region with a wider and more accurate picture of their territorial waters. In May, in Tokyo, alongside the leaders of Australia, Japan, and India, President Joe Biden launched The Indo-Pacific Partnership For Maritime Domain Awareness. This initiative uses space based platforms to deliver a common operating picture of Indo-Pacific waterways, and to promote transparency, so that our allies and partners can better protect vulnerable fisheries, respond to humanitarian disasters, and detect and counter illicit activities.
I am pleased to report that the Philippines is already receiving this stream of near-real-time data, alongside other partners here in Southeast Asia. And we plan to increase this work in the coming months, to includelaunching new satellites into orbit in December to expand this program.
[…]
This is how I see it: to protect the economic vitality of these communities, to protect the ecosystems they rely on, and to protect lives and livelihoods, we must uphold international rules and norms. 
We must stand up for principles such as respect for sovereignty and territorial integrity, unimpeded lawful commerce, the peaceful resolution of disputes, and the freedom of navigation and overflight in the South China Sea, and throughout the Indo-Pacific.
To the Philippine Coast Guard, you are on the front-lines of standing up for the international rules-based order. Each and every day, as you patrol these waters, you uphold the rules and norms that are vital to the prosperity of the Filipino people, and people around the world.
The United States– and the broader international community –have a profound stake in the future of this region. America's prosperity relies on the billions of dollars that flow through these waters every day. And we are proud to work with you in your mission.
As an ally, the United States stands with the Philippines in the face of intimidation and coercion in the South China Sea. As the United States has long made clear: We support the 2016 ruling of the UN Arbitral Tribunal, which delivered a unanimous and final decision firmly rejecting China's expansive South China Sea maritime claims. The tribunal's decision is legally-binding, and must be respected.
We will continue to rally our allies and partners against unlawful and irresponsible behavior, when the international rules-based order is threatened somewhere, it is threatened everywhere.
So, to all of you here today, I say: The U.S.-Philippines Alliance is strong. We are committed to you. We are committed to your success. And to all the lives and livelihoods that rely on your work.



November 22, 2022
[APP Note: Report #6 does not exist or was not received by the APP.]


November 22, 202212:45 PHST

VP travel pool report #7 - rolling
The Vice President and the Second Gentleman stepped off Air Force Two at 12:36 p.m. There was a sign that said "Port of Puerto Princesa Welcomes Honorable Kamala Harris." There were not greeters to name. Harris did not respond to shouted questions, including a question about her reaction to the shooting in Colorado Springs. She waved at the pool and got into the motorcade. We are now rolling to Tagburos village.



November 22, 202214:18 PHST

VP travel pool report #8 - village
At 1:03 p.m., the Vice President walked into a gymnasium at a community center, where local schoolchildren did a choreographed wave, saying "welcome Vice President." The girls wore long skirts and sashes with a pattern of pink flowers and yellow flowers in their hair, and the boys wore red pants and kerchiefs and white shirts. Harris smiled and thanked the children, adding "I'm so happy to meet you." She asked the kids to show her their dance and she watched as they whirled around in unison. She praising them once they finished. She then walked over to another group of kids gathered beside a painting of boats, fish and sea life that read in black text "WELCOME BRGY. TAGBUROS U.S. VICE PRESIDENT KAMALA HARRIS." "What beautiful art," she said.
You made this?" she asked the kids. "Yes," they responded. "I'm very proud of you," she said.
Guided by Harris walked over to a dock along the water where women dressed in red aprons were cutting, cleaning and placing a local fish called Lamayo in a brine, in front of a backdrop of water and small boats. Men carried large baskets filled to the brims with fish past Harris, as she greeted each when they passed her. Nigel Armada, who identified himself as the chief scientist of the USAID Fish Right program, and Melissa Macasaet, who identified herself as an agriculturist, welcomed Harris. Macasaet shared her "heartfelt welcome" with Harris. Harris told them she's read about their work. Armada said the fish in buckets that were carried by Harris when she arrived are tuna and they were caught out in the ocean. "But this community is also very much dependent on the near shore habitat like sea grasses and mangrove," Armada said. Harris then greeted the women preparing the fish. Jacqueline Relator, who spoke through a translator and led the effort, described the process and then introduced the other women as her "best friends." "Best friends," Harris said, waving at the women and laughing. Harris asked questions about the fish and the women's day-to-day. Asked when the women start their days, Harris was told they work from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. She asked if she could touch the fish, and she said, "That's going to be good." Pool was then ushered away and taken to the next location, the Coast Guard ship, via motorcade.
From the White House:Participants in walking tour in addition to the Vice President:- Ambassador MaryKay Carlson, U.S. Ambassador to the Philippines- Roberto Tero, Village Leader- Becky Guieb, USAID — tour guide- Nigel Armada, Fisheries Expert, Fish Right- Melissa Macasaet, City Agriculturalist- Jacqueline Relator, Women Leader, Fish Drying Business



November 22, 202221:16 PHST

VP travel pool report #8a - conversation
While talking with the fisheries expert and agriculturalist, the VP asked about lessons learned but the pool was moved away before an answer was given.
A senior administration official said:
The rough response was "the partnership of the community with the local government is critical like the way this community jointly stopped illegal fishing. The diversification of local livelihoods that USAID supports is also important. In this village, women is being empowered with the increase in livelihood opportunities."



November 22, 202214:50 PHST

VP travel pool report #9 - Teresa Magbanua tour
Harris boarded the Teresa Magbanua to an overhead announcement saying "Vice President of the United States of America aboard." She was guided through the ship — named after a local heroine known as the "Visayan Joan of Arc" — by Coast Guard officials and led into a closed door meeting. The pool was brought onto the bridge, which she then visited. A commander explained the navigational system that can self-guide, and Harris asked a question about when the ship was built. The ship was commissioned in May 6, the commander explained. It is used for joint training exercises and is the largest in the Philippine Coast Guard. The pool was then led to where Harris is going to deliver her remarks in front of both Philippine Coast Guard and U.S. Army personnel.
From the White House:
Arrival greeters at Teresa Magbanua:- Captain Chris Mediado, Coast Guard District Commander- Vice Admiral Ronaldo Punzalan, Coast Guard Deputy Commandant for Operations- Commander Erwin Tolentino, Commanding Officer, BRP Teresa Magbanua



November 22, 202215:27 PHST

VP travel pool report #10 - speech
Elmer Sarmiento, the Transportation Undersecretary for Maritime Affairs, introduced the Vice President, who then spoke before a crowd seated aboard the ship and on the dock. Some quotes below as well as Otter link:
"However, the vitality of communities like this is at risk. Communities like this have seen the consequences and people here know the impacts when foreign vessels enter Philippine waters and illegally deplete the fishing stock, when they harass and intimidate local fishers, when they pollute the ocean and destroy the marine ecosystem. Illegal, unreported, and unregulated, fishing—also called IUU fishing--is far too common across the world's oceans. It presents a direct threat to coastal eco-systems and economies. To help address these maritime issues, the United States is proud to have a strong partnership with the Philippines which includes the training recently conducted on this very ship with the Philippine Coast Guard and U.S. service members. And today, I am pleased to announce additional areas of cooperation."
"In addition, we have stepped up efforts to provide countries in the region with a wider and more accurate picture of their territorial waters. In May, in Tokyo, alongside the leaders of Australia, Japan, and India, President Joe Biden launched The Indo-Pacific Partnership For Maritime Domain Awareness. This initiative uses space-based platforms to deliver a common operating picture of Indo-Pacific waterways, and to promote transparency, so that our allies and partners can better protect vulnerable fisheries, respond to humanitarian disasters, and detect and counter illicit activities. I am pleased to report that the Philippines is already receiving this stream of data, alongside other partners here in Southeast Asia. And we plan to increase this work in the coming months, to include launching new satellites into orbit in December to expand this program."
"This is how I see it: to protect the economic vitality of these communities, to protect the ecosystems they rely on, and to protect lives and livelihoods, we must uphold international rules and norms. And that is why I work here is so very important. We must stand up for principles such as respect for sovereignty and territorial integrity, unimpeded lawful commerce, the peaceful resolution of disputes, and the freedom of navigation and overflight in the South China Sea, and throughout the Indo-Pacific. To the Philippine Coast Guard, you are on the front-lines of standing up for the international rules-based order. Each and every day, as you patrol these waters, you uphold the rules and norms that are vital to the prosperity of the Filipino people, and people around the world. The United States– and the broader international community – have a profound stake in the future of this region. America's prosperity relies on the billions of dollars that flow through these waters every day. And we are proud to work with you in your mission. As an ally, the United States stands with the Philippines in the face of intimidation and coercion in the South China Sea. As the United States has long made clear: We support the 2016 ruling of the UN Arbitral Tribunal, which delivered a unanimous and final decision firmly rejecting China's expansive South China Sea maritime claims. The tribunal's decision is legally binding, and must be respected. We will continue to rally our allies and partners against unlawful and irresponsible behavior. When the international rules-based order is threatened somewhere, it is threatened everywhere."
"So, to all of you here today, I say: The U.S.-Philippines Alliance is strong. We are committed to you. We are committed to your success. And to all the lives and livelihoods that rely on your work."
Otter: https://otter.ai/u/6LZTezkuc1x6cxY6ajx-LEOudJw



November 22, 202215:29 PHST

VP travel pool report #10a - corrected Otter
Wrong Otter was linked in the last report. See the link below for speech.
Otter: https://otter.ai/u/NSI8MO468RtBKhZRoAl6mh9qpq4



November 22, 202215:39 PHST

VP travel pool report #11 - gaggle
Pool gathered on the ship, and the Vice President summarized her remarks and answered questions about Taiwan, Trump, the Georgia runoff and the shooting in Colorado.
Please check the audio in the Otter link for cq quotes:
Q&AWould you support the new house speaker visiting Taiwan?"Oh I'm not going to speak to that. First of all, I don't think that we have actually made a decision yet about who is the House Speaker, or did that happen while I've been here?"
Trump announcement, can you and Biden beat him?"As the president said, he intends to run. And if he does, I will be running with him. And I have no doubt about the strength of the work that we have done over these past two years. We have delivered unprecedented relief for the American people during the pandemic. We have passed an infrastructure law that many are talking about — we actually did it. We just recently with the inflation reduction act" ….
Is trump's president running for President good for the country?"I am thinking about right now what we need to do in the Indo-Pacific. Thank you for the question."
When will you campaign in GA for Warnock?"I haven't made any decision yet on the first thing. I'm basically still trying to figure out what I'm doing tomorrow."
Reaction to Colorado shooting?"let's talk about Colorado. It is just tragic that these killings keep happening, that these shootings keep happening. And in particular, we've seen this before, where people should have an expectation and a right to be in a safe place and to be able to be themselves and enjoy each other's company and celebrate a moment together without fear of violence, must less death. And this is what we are seeing continuously. My heart goes out for those families and for that whole community. And I think we all have to speak out about what this kind of violence does and what it means and it is not reflective of who we are and who we believe ourselves to be as Americans."
Thank you to Bloomberg's Jenny Leonard for providing these quotes.
Otter: https://otter.ai/u/WuHDX9US1BsK_mYruZHvWAUfAw4



November 22, 202215:42 PHST

VP travel pool report #12 - memorial
The Vice President, while en route to Air Force Two, stopped at a memorial for POWs. She walked up to the stone monument, placed a burlap-wrapped bouquet of white flowers at the foot of it and walked away, not answering a question shouted by a pooler about her thoughts on being the highest ranking U.S. official to visit.
On Background from a White House Official:
Vice President Harris is stopping at Plaza Cuartel, a restored Spanish colonial-era garrison and memorial. Near the end of the Japanese occupation of the Philippines during WWII, as Allied and Filipino forces were retaking the islands, nearly 150 American POWs were rounded up in the underground tunnels of the garrison and burned to death on December 14, 1944. Eleven POWs escaped the massacre, swimming to nearby islands to take refuge until Palawan was liberated.



November 22, 202215:47 PHST

VP travel pool report #13 - departure
The Vice President departed the motorcade at 3:35 p.m., greeted officials lined up along a red carpet, took photos with staff in front of Air Force Two. She then boarded the plane with the Second Gentleman.
(Your pooler has more feeds incoming but we're about to fly out so there will be a delay until more feeds can send.)
From the White House:
Departure greeters:
-Adelio Angelito S. Cruz, Chief of Presidential Protocol- Governor Victorino Dennis Socrates, Palawan- Congressman Jose Chaves Alvarez, District Two, Palawan- Ambassador Jose Manuel Romualdez, Ambassador of the Republic of the Philippines to the United States- Speaker Ferdinand Martin Gomez Romualdez, Speaker of the House of Representatives of the Philippines- Ambassador MaryKay Loss Carlson, United States Ambassador to the Philippines



November 22, 202212:41 AKST

Travel pool report #14 - refuel
Air Force Two landed at Elmendorf Air Force Base at 10:58 a.m. to refuel, and it took off at 12:39 p.m.
(The plane landed at Yokota Air Base at 9:15 p.m. local time for a refuel and departed at 10:44 p.m., but your pooler lost connection before that report could be sent.)



November 22, 202218:31 PST

VP travel pool report #15 - goodbye
After a long journey, Air Force Two landed at 6:02 p.m. at Los Angeles International Airport. The Vice President left in a closed-press departure for her holiday. During our trip back, Harris visited with us for an off the record conversation.
This will be my last pool report of this trip. Thanks, and wishing you all a Happy Thanksgiving!




  