
    "[E]ven his rivals have to admit: when [Romney] admits he's proud of his health care record in Massachusetts, when he's not afraid to explain what he did, when he wields his accomplishment as a sword... he's very compelling. Say what you will about the guy: he expended political capital, he worked hard, and he did something meaningful to reform the health care system in his state. Very few candidates on either side can say that." (Marc Ambinder, The Atlantic Blog, http://marcambinder.theatlantic.com/, Posted 10/21/07)

The Giuliani Health Care "Vision" – Or, The Plan That Wasn't:
Mayor Giuliani Outlined A "Vision" For Health Care In Summer 2007, But Promised To Release A Plan In The Fall. "He said his goal was to outline his 'vision,' with more details to come in the fall." (Marc Santora, "Giuliani Seeks To Transform U.S. Health Care Coverage," The New York Times, 8/1/07)
At The Time, Mayor Giuliani Couldn't Provide Specifics About Costs Or How Many Uninsured It Addressed, But Promised Answers In Upcoming Months. "Giuliani offered the broad outline of his plan but his campaign did not provide many specifics. Asked how much his plan would cost and how many of the people without insurance it would help, Giuliani said he won't have those answers for two or three months." (Holly Ramer, "Giuliani Calls For Tax Breaks For Private Health Insurance," The Associated Press, 7/31/07)
Flashback: Mayor Giuliani Supported HillaryCare In 1994:
In 1994, Mayor Giuliani Praised The Clinton Health Care Plan As "Doing Some Pretty Good Things." " In 1994, Mr. Giuliani ... saluted the Clinton health care plan as 'doing some pretty good things' and boasted that New York offered 'universal health care,' not least for illegal immigrants. 'Isn't it better they get some humane treatment for themselves?' Mr. Giuliani told a caller." (Michael Powell, "Giuliani Pulled No Punches On The Radio," The New York Times, 10/5/07)
Sen. Hillary Clinton Supports A Big-Government Takeover Of Health Care:
Sen. Hillary Clinton (D-NY) Supports A "Medicare For All" Government-Run Health Care Program. "She also proposed providing 'options to people to buy into government health care.' A far broader program known as 'Medicare for All,' she said, 'would be something to be considered' if Democrats can win at least 55 seats in the Senate." (Ben Smith, "Clinton Set To Unveil Health Care Plan," The Politico, 9/17/07)
Sen. Clinton's Plan Would Expand Government Programs, Like Medicaid And S-CHIP. "Strengthen Medicaid and CHIP: The Plan will fix the holes in the safety net to ensure that the most vulnerable populations receive affordable, quality care." (Hillary For President, "The American Health Choices Plan," Press Release, 9/17/07)
Sen. Clinton's Plan Will Cost An Estimated $110 Billion Per Year. "The proposal, Clinton's first major effort to achieve universal health coverage since an ill-fated 1994 plan, carries a price tag of about $110 billion per year." (Beth Fouhy, "Clinton Health Plan Outlined," The Associated Press, 9/17/07)
Sen. Clinton Will Raise Taxes To Pay For Her Big-Government Healthcare Plan. "The plan offers tens of millions of Americans a new tax credit to make premiums affordable-which more than offsets the increased revenues from the Plan's provisions to limit the employer tax exclusion for health care and discontinue portions of the Bush tax cuts for those making over $250,000." (Hillary For President, "The American Health Choices Plan," Press Release, 9/17/07)
  