
    Today, President Donald J. Trump announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key positions in his Administration:
Henry T. Wooster of Virginia, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan.
Henry Wooster is a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, who currently serves as the Deputy Assistant Secretary for the Maghreb and Egypt in the Bureau of Near Eastern Affairs of the State Department. Previously, he was Deputy Chief of Mission at the U.S. Embassy in Paris, France, and Deputy Chief of Mission and then Charge d'Affaires at the U.S. Embassy in Amman, Jordan. Mr. Wooster also previously served as Political Counselor at the U.S. Embassy in Islamabad, Pakistan, Director for Central Asia at the National Security Council, and the Foreign Policy Advisor to the Commanding General, U.S. Joint Special Operations Command. Earlier in his career, he also worked as the Acting Deputy Assistant Secretary for Iran in the Department of State's Bureau of Near Eastern Affairs and as the Director of the Office of Iranian Affairs in the Department of State. Mr. Wooster was an officer in the U.S. Army Reserves for 24 years. He earned a B.A. from Amherst College and an M.A. from Yale University. He speaks French and Russian and has a working knowledge of Arabic, Farsi, and Syriac/Aramaic.
Crosby Kemper III of Missouri, to be the Director of the Institute of Museum and Library Services.
Crosby Kemper is the Director of the Kansas City Public Library, where he provides library resources to residents of the greater Kansas City region in Missouri. During his tenure as Director, the Kansas City Public Library was awarded the 5-Star Rating from the Library Journal three times, a Gold Medal from Institute of Museum and Library Services, and the Library Excellence Programming Award. Mr. Kemper previously served as CEO for the UMB Financial Corporation and, in 2004, he chaired the Commission on the Future of Higher Education for former Gov. Bob Holden. A graduate of Yale University, Mr. Kemper is a current Board Member of the Rabbit Hole, a center promoting children's books, and served on the Board of the Mercantile Library in St. Louis.
  