
    President Bush Announced His Intention to Designate One Individual and Appoint Nine to Serve as Members of His Administration
President George W. Bush today announced his intention to designate one individual and appoint nine individuals to serve as members of his administration.
The President intends to designate Cornelius Williams Ruth of Texas to be the United States Representative and Chairman of the Rio Grande Compact Commission for Colorado, New Mexico, and Texas. Mr. Ruth is the retired Principal Engineer of the International Boundary and Water Commission, where he worked for a total of 25 years. In 1995, he received the Bronze Medal for Commendable Service from the Environmental Protection Agency. Mr. Ruth received his bachelor's degree from Texas Technological University in Lubbock, Texas.
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the Board of Trustees of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts:
Thomas C. Foley of Connecticut, for the remainder of a six-year term expiring September 1, 2008
Brenda LaGrange Johnson of New York, for the remainder of a six-year term expiring September 1, 2008
James A. Johnson of the District of Columbia, for the remainder of a six-year term expiring September 1, 2008
Marlene A. Malek of Virginia, for the remainder of a six-year term expiring September 1, 2008
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the President's Committee on the Arts and the Humanities:
Frank E. Fowler, II of Tennessee
Margaret Robson of New Mexico
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the Ticket to Work and Work Incentives Advisory Panel:
Mary Elizabeth Child of Michigan, for a four-year term expiring December 4, 2006
Torrey Westrom of Minnesota, for the remainder of a four-year term expiring July 27, 2006
The President intends to appoint the following individual to be a Member of the Commission on Presidential Scholars:
Andrew Ly Thanh Buhr of Missouri
  