
    WASHINGTON – U.S. Sen. Bernie Sanders on Friday kicks off a three-day swing through South Carolina and Georgia. The Democratic Party presidential candidate is scheduled to make stops in Charleston, North Charleston, Columbia, Orangeburg, Beaufort and Savannah. Sanders will discuss a wide range of issues, including criminal justice reform, his college affordability plan, immigration reform, income and wealth inequality and getting big money out of politics.
Here is the itinerary:
Friday, November 20
7 p.m. Charleston Democratic Presidential Town Hall Hosted by state Senator Marlon Kimpson, Burke High School, 244 President Street, Charleston, SC
Information for the public: Doors open at 6 p.m. The event is free and open to the public. Tickets are not required, but an RSVP is strongly encouraged. Admission is first come, first served.
Saturday, November 21
11:50 a.m. South Carolina Democratic Party Blue Jamboree, Jenkins Institute For Children, 3923 Azalea Drive, North Charleston, SC
Information for the public: Doors open at 11 a.m. Tickets can be purchased here.
Press interested in attending this event should register here.
2:35 p.m. 20/20 Leaders of America Candidates Justice Forum, John Hurst Gymnatorium, Allen University, Pine Street, Columbia, SC
Information for the public can be found here.
4 p.m. Primary Filing and Rally with Bernie Sanders, South Carolina Democratic Party HQ, 915 Lady Street #111, Columbia, SC
Information for the public: this event is free and open to the public. A ticket is not required but an RSVP is strongly encouraged.
7 p.m. Orangeburg Town Hall, Kirkland W. Green Student Center, South Caroline State University, 300 College St. NE, Orangeburg, SC
Information for the public: Doors open at 6 p.m. This event is free and open to the public. Tickets are not required, but an RSVP is strongly encouraged. Admission is first come, first served.
Sunday, November 22
3 p.m. Beaufort Town Hall, Darrah Hall, Penn Center, 16 Penn Center Circle West, St. Helena, SC
Information for the public: Doors open at 2 p.m. This event is free and open to the public. Tickets are not required, but an RSVP is strongly encouraged. Admission is first come, first served.
6 p.m. Savannah Town Hall, Savannah Station, 601 Cohen Street, Savannah, GA
Information for the public: Doors open at 5 p.m. This event is free and open to the public. Tickets are not required, but an RSVP is strongly encouraged. Admission is first come, first served.
  