
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Romney Press Shop (857) 288-6390
Boston, MA – Today Governor Mitt Romney announced the endorsement of Jim Ogonowski, an Air Force veteran and the Republican nominee in the 2007 special election to represent Massachusetts's 5th Congressional District. Despite running in a heavily Democratic district, Ogonowski ran an extremely competitive campaign.
"Having known Jim for these past few years as a man of courage and conviction, I am proud to have his support as we campaign to bring change to Washington. We both understand what it means to stand strong for Republican principles in the bluest of the blue states," said Governor Romney. "I look forward to working with Jim and know that he will be a valuable addition to our team in Massachusetts."
Announcing his support today, Ogonowski said, "Governor Romney is the candidate with the experience, vision and values to bring change to Washington and build a stronger America. I have had the privilege of seeing Governor Romney's leadership up close and know that he can bring the change we need. In Massachusetts, he put common sense principles to work to meet our most pressing challenges. We need that leadership in Washington today."
Background On Jim Ogonowski:
Jim Ogonowski Retired From The United States Air Force And The Air National Guard After 28 Years Of Service. Jim Ogonowski is a farmer and small businessman from Dracut who recently retired as a Lieutenant Colonel after serving 28 years in the Air Force and Air National Guard. He first came to national attention on September 11, 2001 when the plane his brother was piloting was hijacked and flown into the World Trade Center. In the words of ABC News, Jim "stepped forward when others could only cry." As one of the organizers of the largest airlift in New Hampshire National Guard history, he deployed 1,000 soldiers and airmen to provide relief during Hurricane Katrina. Upon his retirement, Jim was awarded the Meritorious Service Medal for his outstanding service to the country – marking the third time he received this honor. He was born and raised in the Merrimack Valley where his family roots lie for over 100 years. He currently lives in Dracut, Massachusetts with his wife Kathy and his children Charlie and Catherine.
  