
    Kihuen to Join Clinton at "Organizing for Change" Event in Las Vegas November 17
The Clinton campaign today announced the endorsement of Nevada Assemblyman Ruben J. Kihuen, and named him national Co-Chair of Hispanic Outreach.
"Hillary Clinton has both the strength and experience to lead our nation from her very first day in office," said Kihuen. "She is also a tested advocate who cares about the issues of greatest concern to our communities, and is the one candidate who can bring the American people together as a nation united. The issues I hear about every day from my constituents are her top priorities – health care, education, economic opportunity. I am honored to support Senator Clinton and mobilize caucus goers to support her candidacy."
Kihuen will join Senator Clinton at an "Organizing for Change" event in Las Vegas, Assembly District 11, next Saturday, November 17. Additional details on this event will be released soon.
Elected to serve the 11th Assembly District of Nevada in 2006, Ruben Kihuen has spent his entire professional career advocating for working families, students ad the poor – as a community organizer, college recruiter and adviser, and political adviser and activist. As deputy field director and base vote director for the Nevada State Democratic Party, he was instrumental in registering nearly 15,000 new voters and turning out Hispanic voters in record numbers. He has worked as a field organizer for the Democratic National Committee for campaigns in Virginia, Florida and Texas, and also served as regional representative to United States Senator Harry Reid.
Kihuen was born in Guadalajara, Mexico and grew up in Las Vegas. He is the first Hispanic immigrant to be elected to political office in the state. He was named by his colleagues Nevada State Legislature co-Freshman of the Year, 2007 and has been recognized for excellence in public service by the Latin Chamber of Commerce, the City of Las Vegas, the Familias Unidas Association and the Julio Cesar Chavez Foundation. He currently serves as team captain of "Los Democratas," a Democratic Party-sponsored soccer team.
"Ruben Kihuen is a true American success story who has devoted his career to empowering and advocating for those in need," said Clinton Nevada Chair Rory Reid. "He knows firsthand the power of grassroots networking and organizing to create change, and brings great energy to that cause every day. I have no doubt that Ruben will not only mobilize caucus goers in the community for Senator Clinton, but that he will also personally roll-up his sleeves and knock on doors. We couldn't be more excited to have Ruben on our team."
  