
    WASHINGTON, DC – Today, President Barack Obama announced his intent to appoint the following individuals to key Administration posts:
•      John P. Bilbrey –Member, Advisory Committee for Trade Policy and Negotiations
•      Brian Greenspun- Member, Commission for the Preservation of America's Heritage Abroad
•      Andres W. Lopez – General Trustee, Board of Trustees of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts
•      Emma Sepulveda – Member, J. William Fulbright Foreign Scholarship Board
President Obama said, "I am pleased to announce that these experienced and committed individuals have decided to serve our country. I look forward to working with them in the months and years ahead."
President Obama announced his intent to appoint the following individuals to key Administration posts:
John P. Bilbrey, Appointee for Member, Advisory Committee for Trade Policy and Negotiations 
John P. Bilbrey is President and CEO of The Hershey Company, positions he has held since 2011. He has been a senior executive at The Hershey Company since 2003, serving as COO from 2010 to 2011, President of Hershey North America from 2007 to 2010, President of the International Commercial Group from 2005 to 2007, and President of Hershey International from 2003 to 2005. Prior to joining The Hershey Company, Mr. Bilbrey held executive positions at Mission Foods and Danone Waters of North America, Inc. He worked at Procter & Gamble Co. for 22 years in international consumer sales and marketing. He has been a Director of McCormick & Company, Inc., since 2005. Mr. Bilbrey received a B.S. from Kansas State University.
Brian Greenspun, Appointee for Member, Commission for the Preservation of America's Heritage Abroad
Brian Greenspun is the owner of the Greenspun Media Group. He was Chairman and CEO of the Greenspun Corporation from 1990 to 2011. Mr. Greenspun is a member of the Board of Trustees of the Brookings Institution. He is also a board member of Barrick Gold Corporation and a member of the University of Nevada, Las Vegas Foundation. He was appointed to the White House Commission on Small Business in 1993 by President Bill Clinton. Mr. Greenspun received a B.A. and a J.D. from Georgetown University.
Andres W. Lopez, Appointee for General Trustee, Board of Trustees of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts
Andres W. Lopez is an attorney and founder of The Law Offices of Andres W. Lopez, P.S.C. in San Juan, Puerto Rico. Before starting his firm, Mr. Lopez worked at Fiddler, Gonzalez & Rodríguez P.S.C. and at Hill & Barlow, P.C. He clerked for Judge George A. O'Toole, Jr. of the U.S. District Court for the District of Massachusetts and Judge Jay A. García-Gregory of the U.S. District Court for the District of Puerto Rico. Mr. Lopez was an advisor to President Barack Obama's campaigns in 2008 and 2012, a member of the Obama for America National Finance Committee from 2007 to 2012, and the National Chairman of the Futuro Fund from 2011 to 2012. He served as Member of the Commission to Study the Potential Creation of a National Museum of the American Latino from 2009 to 2011. He was Chairman of the Harvard Law School Association's Latino alumni committee, a founder of the Harvard Latino Law Review, and currently sits on its Board of Advisors. Mr. Lopez received a B.A. and J.D. from Harvard University.
Emma Sepulveda, Appointee for Member, J. William Fulbright Foreign Scholarship Board
Emma Sepulveda is a Foundation Professor in Foreign Language and Literature at the University of Nevada, Reno, a position she has held since 2004. She is an author and former columnist for the Reno Gazette Journal and the Spanish newspaper, Ahora. In 1995, Ms. Sepulveda founded Latinos for Political Education, advocating for civic engagement by members of the Latino community. She has been a member on the boards of United Way, the Girl Scouts, and Habitat for Humanity, as well as a board trustee of KNPB, a local public television station. Ms. Sepulveda served as a Member of the Commission to Study the Potential Creation of a National Museum of the American Latino from 2009 to 2011. Ms. Sepulveda received a B.A. and an M.A. in Latin American Literature from the University of Reno, and a Ph.D. from the University of California, Davis.
  