
    Pool Reports by Kéthévane Gorjestani, France 24 



Sent:
Reports:




November 30, 202210:11

VP supplemental pool #1 - background
Hello all,
I'm your pooler for the VP's engagement with French President Emmanuel Macron at NASA HQ.
We're holding with the French pool awaiting the start of the meeting.
Here's some background from the VP's office:
Background on the Vice President's Engagement with President Macron on U.S.-France Space Cooperation 
Attributed to a White House Official: 

The Vice President is hosting President Macron for a meeting at NASA Headquarters to highlight the strong U.S.-France partnership in outer space, which has been ongoing for more than 60 years.


It will be an opportunity to review existing cooperation in space science, space exploration, and using data collected from space to fight climate change. It will also build upon new areas of cooperation established after the Vice President and President Macron met in Paris last year.

Background on the Vice President's engagement with France on space cooperation:

In April 2022, as part of her effort to establish international rules and norms for space, the Vice President announced a new U.S. commitment not to conduct destructive, direct-ascent anti-satellite missile testing, and called on other nations to join us. Remarks: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/04/18/rem....

Yesterday, France committed to adopt this norm. Statement: https://www.diplomatie.gouv.fr/fr/politique-etrangere-de-la-france/secur...




In November 2021, strengthening space cooperation was a key area of focus during the Vice President's meeting with President Macron in Paris.

Fact Sheet: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/11/10/...
Remarks: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/11/10/rem...




In November 2021, the Vice President and President Macron agreed to create a Comprehensive Dialogue on Space. The first meeting was on November 10, 2022. Statement:https://www.state.gov/joint-statement-of-the-first-meeting-of-the-u-s-fr...


In November 2021, The Vice President announced the U.S. would join the France-led Space for Climate Observatory. NOAA Administrator Spinrad signed the charter in June 2022. Statement:https://www.noaa.gov/news-release/us-joins-space-for-climate-observatory


In November 2021, the Vice President urged President Macron to join the Artemis Accords, a set of principles to guide civil use of space. France signed the Accords in June 2022. Statement: https://www.state.gov/france-becomes-twentieth-nation-to-sign-the-artemi...




November 30, 202211:12

VP supplemental pool #2
Pool was ushered in at 10:44am.
The VP & the French President were seated side by side and the rest of the attendees around an L shaped table.
The VP spoke for several minutes calling France a vital partner.
President Macron followed.
They wrapped up their opening remarks at 10:54am.
President Macron acknowledged one shouted question on whether he was concerned about Ukraine funding with Republicans controlling the House. It was hard to hear with all the commotion of being ushered out but he said something along the lines of: he wanted to focus on the topic at hand, space.
Will send quotes soon.
Participating in the briefing were the French Ambassador to the US and the US ambassador to France as well as several french ministers (Economy, Foreign Affairs, Higher Education & research)
Also in attendance, NASA administrator Bill Nelson & French astronaut Thomas Pesquet.
Still waiting for a full official list of attendees.



November 30, 202211:57

VP supplemental pool #3 - quotes
Kamala Harris:"France is a vital ally for the US"
"So Mr. President today we have the occasion to celebrate the cooperation of our two nations in space."
"I believe space remains a place of undiscovered and unrealized opportunities. And for that reason, there's so much potential in terms of the work that nations can do there. And in particular, when we work together, based on shared principles, and values, to seize these opportunities."
Emmanuel Macron (spoke in English)"we did a lot together in the past decades and I think we can do a lot and we have a lot of projects. I want to thank you personally because indeed when you came one year ago in Paris, we had this very long discussion, we decided together to strengthen this cooperation and larger strategic dialogue of space."
"Space is the new place of conflict. And, we have crazy players in this space as well. And we have rogue states. And we have new hybrid attacks. And I think it's very important together because we do share this history. We do have the same commitment and attachment to science and progress that we do share as well as democratic values and I think building these new rules and setting them together is for us very important."



November 30, 202212:18

VP supplemental pool #4 - participants
Per VP's office
PARTICIPANTS
U.S. Delegation
-Vice President Kamala Harris- Administrator Richard Spinrad, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA)- Administrator Bill Nelson, National Aeronautics & Space Administration (NASA)- Ambassador Denise Bauer, United States Ambassador to France- Phil Gordon, National Security Advisor- Chirag Parikh, Executive Secretary of the National Space Council- Rebecca Lissner, Deputy National Security Advisor- Ike Irby, Senior Advisor for Policy & Strategic Advisor for the National Space Council- Dean Lieberman, Special Advisor for National Security- Alton Bouland, Special Advisor for Europe, Russia, and Defense- Madhurita Sengupta, Director for Civil Space Policy, National Space Council- Ricky Arnold, NASA Astronaut- Dr. Karen St. Germain, NASA Earth Science Division Director- Dr. Mitch Goldberg, NOAA Senior Scientist- Mr. Amit Kshatriya, Assistant Deputy Associate Administrator for Exploration Systems Development
French Delegation
- President Emmanuel Macron of France- Philippe Baptiste, President, National Center for Space Studies (CNES) (France)- Catherine Colonna, Minister for Europe & Foreign Affairs- Bruno Le Maire, Minister of Economy & Finance- Sylvie Retailleau, Minister for Research, Higher Education, & Innovation- Philippe Etienne, French Ambassador to the United States- Ambassador Emmanuel Bonne, Presidential Diplomatic Advisor- Nicolas Maubert, Space Counselor at the French Embassy- Thomas Pesquet, French Astronaut at the European Space Agency- Faoutmata Kebe, Astrophysicist at Pierre-et-Marie-Curie University- Frederic Michel, Presidential Chief Advisor for Communication and Strategy- Admiral Jean-Philippe Rolland, Presidential Chief of the Military Staff- Walid Fouque, Presidential Counselor for Asia, America and Oceania- Matthieu Landon, Presidential Counselor for industry, research and innovation- Sophie Adenot, French Astronaut at the European Space Agency- Antoine Petit, President of French National Centre for Scientific Research (CNRS)- Rémi Soummer, Astronomer, Space Telescope Science Institute



November 30, 202212:20

VP supplemental pool #5
Non NASA related
On Background from a White House Official
VP Harris kicked off the Democracy Alliance conference today with 150 progressive and labor movement leaders, held at the AFL-CIO headquarters. She thanked them for their work to protect and defend democracy across our country over the last year.
That's all from me for today!




 
Pool Reports below by Nick Allen, The Telegraph 



Sent:
Reports:




November 30, 202214:52

VP supplemental pool report #1
Good afternoon
I'm your pooler as Vice President Harris is due to deliver remarks at the White House Tribal Nations Summit at 3pm.
This event is at the Department of the Interior.
It will be live-streamed at whitehouse.gov/live



November 30, 202214:59

VP supplemental pool report #2 - background
This on background from a White House official:
On Background from a White House OfficialThis afternoon at 3 PM ET, Vice President Harris will deliver remarks at the 2022 White House Tribal Nations Summit, which will be livestreamed on whitehouse.gov/live.
In her remarks, the Vice President will focus on how improving maternal health, increasing access to capital, fighting the climate crisis, and protecting the Indian Child Welfare Act (ICWA) will help build a future where all people have the opportunity to succeed and thrive. The Vice President will outline the Administration's actions to address these issues, and will emphasize the Administration's commitment to working with Tribal leaders.
This year's in-person summit brings together Tribal leaders to discuss top priorities, key policies, and critical issues that impact Tribal communities. Last year, the Vice President delivered remarks at the all-virtual Summit, where she highlighted the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law's investment in Tribal broadband and the need to protect Native voting rights.
Additional Background on Vice President's Work to Support Tribal CommunitiesAlongside President Biden, Vice President Harris has led the Administration's efforts to create opportunity and to promote equity in Tribal communities:
Maternal Health

The U.S. has the highest rate of pregnancy-related deaths among wealthy / developed nations. Native women are more than twice as likely to die as a result of pregnancy-related issues.
In 2022, the Vice President announced the release of the first White House-led Maternal Health Blueprint for Addressing the Maternal Health Crisis, which contains commitments from federal agencies to guarantee safe childbirth for all women.
In 2021, the Vice President organized the first-ever White House Maternal Health Day of Action, where she issued a Call to Action to states to extend Medicaid coverage for postpartum women from 2 months to 12 months.
As of November 2022, more than half of all states have expanded coverage, benefiting over 400,000 women.

Access to Capital

Native Americans are more than 3 times as likely to not have access to traditional financial institutions.
The Vice President has consistently advocated for expanding access to capital and credit for underserved small and minority-owned businesses. As a Senator, the Vice President partnered with key Congressional stakeholders to secure a transformative $12 billion investment for CDFIs and MDIs in December 2020. Since that time, she has worked with Secretary Yellen and the Department of the Treasury to develop a forward-looking plan on amplification of CDFIs and deployment of those recently appropriated funds.
Of that $12 billion investment, tens of millions of dollars have been invested in Native CDFIs around the country.
In July, the Vice President announced a first-of-its-kind private sector initiative—the Economic Opportunity Coalition (EOC)— with more than 20 corporations and foundations committed to investing billions of dollars in underserved communities and small businesses emerging from the pandemic.

Climate

The Vice President has made climate action and environmental justice a cornerstone of her work, ensuring that communities, including Native communities, not only have a seat at the table, but also have the tools and resources to drive environmental action themselves.
The Vice President's work on wildfire and drought, including historic funding in the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, has centered communities on the front lines of the climate crisis.
The Vice President announced last month that as part of the new Clean School Bus Program, multiple Tribal Nations will receive electric school buses.
As the District Attorney of San Francisco, the Vice President established one of the first environmental justice units in the nation, and as California Attorney General, she took action against polluters to protect vulnerable communities. As a Senator, the Vice President led efforts around the Climate Equity Act, the Water Justice Act, and the Environmental Justice for All Act, which sought to center communities on the front lines of toxic pollution and the climate crisis, including Native communities.

Indian Child Welfare Act (ICWA)

As California's Attorney General, the Vice President established the Bureau of Children's Justice, and launched a task force to investigate local government for violating Native children's rights by failing to comply with the Indian Child Welfare Act.
The Vice President was the first attorney general to provide a tribal police department full access to a state-run criminal history database.
Prior to holding elected office, the Vice President served as chief of the Division on Children and Families for the San Francisco City Attorney's Office, where she worked on child welfare issues, including protecting the needs of Native children.




November 30, 202215:28

VP supplemental pool report #3
Vice President Harris was introduced by Chairman Mark Macarro, Tribal Chairman at Penchanga Band of Luiseno Indians.
She spoke in a large auditorium on a stage flanked by flags, and in front of a blue background.
A reminder: the livestream is here - whitehouse.gov/live
Some quotes:
"Every day tribal leaders help America live up to our highest ideals."
"You speak truth about our country's history so the lessons of our past can lead us to a better future."
"The bonds between our nations are sacred."
She said the administration had a "duty to honor tribal sovereignty, to ensure tribal self-determination."
"We must always speak truth, no matter how difficult it is for some to hear, about our history."
She said "deep disparities persist" and "we have put equity at the center of all our work."



November 30, 202215:58

VP supplemental pool report #4 - more quotes
Vice President Harris spoke for 15 minutes.
Some more quotes:
"Native communities are on the front line in the fight against the climate crisis."
"Across America, Native communities are disproportionately impacted by toxic air and water pollution."
"All the while, we also know Native peoples have served as responsible stewards of our environment and natural resources for millennia."
"So, to create enduring solutions to the climate crisis we must rely on your traditions, your expertise, your knowledge, your history, your leadership."
"Native families and communities continue to face profound threats from the urgent crisis of missing and murdered Indigenous people."
"For centuries Native children were torn away from their families and their communities. These acts were not only violations of basic human rights for those children and their families but also an attack on the very existence of tribal nations."
"As our administration tries to create an America where all have the opportunity to succeed and thrive we will continue to depend on your friendship, on your leadership, and on your partnership. Together we will continue to build a better future for this generation and the generations to come."
That's all from me.




  