
    McLean, VA-Today the Fred Thompson campaign announced its Students For Fred National and State Leadership Teams. These student volunteers will be actively leading the Fred Thompson grassroots efforts on college campuses across the nation.
Matthew Farrar will serve as the Florida Chairman as well as a National Co-Chair of Students for Fred Thompson. A senior political science major at Florida State University, Farrar has previously served on the 2006 Charlie Crist Gubernatorial campaigns and has worked on numerous state races throughout Florida.
"Sen. Fred Thompson has made it clear that he is the best candidate to lead our country into a strong and secure future," said Matthew Farrar. "He has shown incredible leadership capabilities, and has a solid vision of where this country needs to go. With a focus on grassroots campaigning, I look forward to spreading his message across the country to my fellow students. I am honored and excited to serve as a National Co-Chairman and the Florida Chair, and I am ready to get to work in engaging students in the issues that are crucial to our country's future"
Marianne Brennan is a senior political science major at the College of Charleston, and she will serve as a National Co-Chair. A native of Arlington, Virginia, she has been the Opinions Editor of the College of Charleston's student newspaper, the George Street Observer since her junior year.
"I am honored to serve as a National Co-Chair for Students for Fred Thompson," said Marianne Brennan. "Senator Thompson is the true consistent conservative in this race with the principles and values we need leading our nation as we face increasing challenges down the road. I look forward to spreading his message on my campus as well as on campuses across the country."
"We are very pleased to have these students volunteering their time to lead our youth effort on campuses throughout the country," said Randy Enwright, National Political Director. "The youth vote has increasingly become a crucial voting bloc during the last two presidential elections. Senator Fred Thompson recognizes the importance of the youth vote and has created this national youth effort - Students for Fred - to spread his consistent conservative message to young Americans all across the country."
Students for Fred Chairmen and Co-Chairs include:
National
Co-Chair Matthew Farrar, Florida State University
Co-Chair Ashley Garvis, William Penn University
Co-Chair Marianne Brennan, College of Charleston
Co-Chair Harrison Sonntag, Dartmouth College
Co-Chair John Carroll, University of South Carolina
Co-Chair Jonathan Bryant, Bryan College
Co-Chair James Bailey, West Virginia University
Florida
Co-Chair Matthew Farrar, Florida State University
Co-Chair Christina Cupani, University of South Florida
Co-Chair Bryan Griffin, University of Florida
Co-Chair Patrick Stauffer, University of Central Florida
Co-Chair Charles Fombrun, University of Miami
Co-Chair Jess Lanza, Stetson University
Co-Chair Brandon Lind, University of West Florida
Co-Chair Ozzie Mutz, University of Florida
Co-Chair Jason Fischer, Barry University of Law
Co-Chair Jami Rapisarda, University of West Florida
Co-Chair Melissa Rapisarda, University of West Florida
Co-Chair Jared Granger, University of West Florida
Iowa
Co-Chair Randy Weigand, Drake University
Co-Chair Mark DeRee, William Penn University
Chapter Chair Ashley Garvis, William Penn University
Chapter Chair Elena Vukmir, Drake University
Chapter Chair Josh Kreft, University of Iowa
Chapter Chair Cam Cushing, Iowa State University
Chapter Chair Adam Rohloff, Central College
New Hampshire
Chair Harrison Sonntag, Darmouth College
Co-Chair Ryan Eickmeier, New England College
Massachusetts
Co-Chair Xander Zebrose, Tufts University
South Carolina
Co-Chair John Carroll, University of South Carolina
Co-Chair Brannon N. Darby, II, The Citadel
Co-Chair Tradd Anderson, Clemson University
Co-Chair, Marianne Brennan, College of Charleston
Tennessee
Co-Chair Jared Anderson, Vanderbilt University
Co-Chair Jace Cochran, Carson Newman College
Co-Chair Robbie Champion, Maryville College
Co-Chair Zack Blair, Lipscomb University
Co-Chair Jonathan Bryant, Bryan College
Co-Chair Nathaniel Lindsley, Trevecca Nazarene University
Co-Chair Parker Mink, University of Tennessee
Co-Chair Rob Martin, Belmont University
West Virginia
Chair James Bailey, West Virginia University
  