
    The Rudy Giuliani Campaign today announced that Missouri State Representatives Kenny Jones, Ed Robb and Kevin Threlkeld have endorsed Mayor Giuliani for President. They join a strong Missouri Leadership Team, including U.S. Senator Kit Bond, Congresswoman Jo Ann Emerson and State House Majority Leader Steve Tilley.
"I know I speak for the entire Missouri team when I say Rudy Giuliani, above anyone else, has the experience and the judgment that it takes to be President of the United States. From keeping the country on the offense in the Terrorists' War on Us to growing the nation's economy, Missouri voters know Rudy can get it done," said Representative Tilley. "I'm happy to have my colleagues in the State House join in our effort to elect Rudy President."
Representative Kenny Jones
Rep. Jones, elected to the House in 2004, was the Moniteau County Sheriff for the last 20 years and spent 11 years with the Missouri Highway Patrol as a Trooper. Jones served as the 2004 Bush-Cheney Campaign's Law Enforcement Coalition Chairman, is a former President of the Missouri Sheriff's Association and is a current member of the National Rifle Association.
Rep. Jones is also an Elder in the First Christian Church of California and a member of the Lions Club and Masonic Lodge. He is also the current Vice President of the Missouri Sheriff's Retirement Board.
Representative Ed Robb
Rep. Robb, elected to the House in 2004, is President of Edward H. Robb and Associates, is the former Director of the University of Missouri-Columbia's State and Regional Fiscal Studies Unit, and Director of the Economic Policy and Analysis Research Center in Columbia, Missouri.
In addition to his legislative duties, Rep. Robb is a member of the Columbia Chamber of Commerce and an active member of the Open Door Baptist Church.
Representative Kevin Threlkeld
Rep. Threlkeld was elected to the House in November 2002. In addition to his legislative duties, Rep. Threlkeld is a primary care physician and a member of the Missouri State Medical Association, Washington Area Chamber of Commerce, New Melle Chamber of Commerce, Missouri Farm Bureau and National Rifle Association. He attends St. Francis Borgia Catholic Church.
  