
    President Obama.Selamat malam. Terima kasih, President Yudhoyono. Thank you so much for welcoming us here today. Thank you for your tremendous leadership and that of Indonesia as you host both ASEAN and the East Asia Summit. And this speaks to your commitment to the region, as well as Indonesia's role as an important leader.
Let me say the obvious: It is wonderful to be back in Bali. This is the first time I've been here in 18 years. I have to say, 18 years ago, this entire development did not exist. So it's a sign of the remarkable development that has taken place here. It is always a pleasure to be here and to have the opportunity to exchange views with my friend President Yudhoyono.
I'm pleased to be here as the first U.S. President to attend the East Asia Summit. This is another example of how the United States is refocusing on the Asia-Pacific and engaging more deeply in regional organizations so we can meet our common challenges together.
Our meeting just now focused on the growing relationship between our two nations. When I was here last year, we agreed to forge a comprehensive partnership across a whole range of areas, and today we reviewed the progress that we're making.
On the economic front, we welcome the completion of a deal that I witnessed this morning, the decision of Indonesia's Lion Air to purchase up to 230 Boeing aircraft, worth at least $20 billion and possibly much, much more. This is one of the largest commercial transactions ever between our two countries, and it's a sign of just how much potential our relationship has.
Today we're also signing, as President Yudhoyono mentioned, a Millennium Challenge Corporation compact that will provide $600 million to support environmentally sustainable economic development, public health, and improved public services in Indonesia.
With regard to security, we agreed to a number of steps that will expand our cooperation, including training and support to help the Indonesian military as it modernizes. And I'd note that this kind of defense cooperation not only helps build Indonesia's capacity to ensure its own security, it helps Indonesia play an active role in promoting security in the region.
Finally, I conveyed to President Yudhoyono our appreciation of Indonesia's regional leadership, which has helped us to achieve real progress on issues like disaster relief, maritime security, and nonproliferation. And I thanked him for Indonesia's efforts to promote democracy and human rights and advance security and peace.
So as I said, I wanted to thank President Yudhoyono for welcoming me back to Indonesia again. I know we're all very grateful for his leadership and for the hospitality of the Indonesian people and the people of Bali as they host these two important summits. And just as we deepen the partnership between our two nations, I am looking forward to the progress that we can make as a region towards greater security and prosperity for all of us.
So, President Yudhoyono, thank you very much.
President Yudhoyono.Terima kasih. Thank you.
President Obama.Terima kasih.
  