
    Joint Press Statement at the Conclusion of President Bush's State Visit to Mexico Held in Monterrey on November 27, 1990.
At the invitation of President Carlos Salinas de Gortari, President George Bush of the United States of America paid a state visit to Mexico, November 26 - 27, 1990. During this visit the two Presidents exchanged views on an extensive agenda of common interest.
Both Presidents, reflecting the climate of friendship and cordiality of relations between the two countries and the intention reaffirmed by both heads of state in previous meetings for this climate to materialize in concrete results to enhance the symbols of good neighborliness, held a friendly and cordial dialogue on the most important issues on the bilateral agenda as well as on regional and global matters.
Presidents Bush and Salinas de Gortari underscored that the best means to strengthen bilateral relations in the future is through dialogue with mutual respect for each other's sovereignty. They stressed their conviction that bilateral relations should be evaluated as a whole, without allowing any single issue, regardless of its complexity, to detract from the need for maintaining such a dialogue, in order to ensure that relations remain at their present optimum level.
The diversity and complexity of Mexico-United States affairs should be viewed as a challenge and as an opportunity that encourage nations to pay unceasing attention to this relationship and to take effective measures to solve problems still pending.
In reviewing recent achievements, the Presidents noted the progress achieved in areas such as trade, financial cooperation, border issues, the fight against international drug traffic and abuse, cooperation for environmental protection, and strengthening of cultural and educational exchange, and tourism. The Presidents also stated that such achievements are largely due to the excellent cooperation between the Governments within the framework of the binational commission, through which a substantial number of Cabinet members of both countries and leaders of U.S. agencies and Mexican decentralized organizations can meet to hold a dialogue at least once a year.
Free Trade Agreement
In the area of the rapidly expanding trade and investment, the Presidents reaffirmed their commitment in regard to the need to promote trade liberalization and to continue consultations towards a free trade agreement between Mexico and the United States, contemplating the way in which Canada might consider joining such negotiations.
Enterprise for the Americas and Uruguay Round
The Presidents also focused on the current status of consultations with Latin American countries about the Enterprise for the Americas, and reaffirmed their commitment to a successful conclusion of the Uruguay round.
Border Issues
The Presidents' discussion included a general examination of issues concerning their common border, noting that it is one of the most heavily utilized in the world.
Both governments, having agreed to facilitate the rapid passage through ports of entry, and conscious of the vital importance for border communities of both nationalities of prompt attention in the ports of entry of the two countries, and affirming their interest in achieving improved facilitation of services, including operating hours, expressed their satisfaction with the establishment of new border ports, and with the progress in the construction of the Zaragoza-Ysleta, Colombia-Dolores and Lucio Blanco-Los Indios bridges, as well as the authorization for nine new ports of entry.
The Presidents shared their concern about the cases of violence on both sides of the border. They strongly condemned such acts of violence and instructed their respective authorities to propose, through the sub-group on consular affairs and protection of the binational commission and other timely high-level meetings, joint recommendations calling for new specific mechanisms with the objectives of arriving at a satisfactory solution of pending cases and creating awareness in order to prevent the repetition of such incidents in the future.
Tuna Exports
President Salinas informed President Bush of his concern about the impact of the tuna embargo on Mexico. President Bush noted the recent judicial action in support of the administration's position that the embargo be stayed, and pledged to work cooperatively with Mexico bilaterally and other nations to seek alternative solutions to this problem, including a multilateral convention.
On the same subject, President Salinas ratified his Government's intention of taking part in multilateral agreements -- based on equity and appropriate scientific evidence -- for the conservation of marine species, including tuna and marine mammals.
The War Against Drug Trafficking and Drug Abuse
In reference to the fight against international drug trafficking, Presidents Salinas and Bush reaffirmed their conviction that only through efficient international cooperation, based on strict respect for each country's sovereignty, can drug trafficking be fought, and at the same time the demand for drugs reduced.
The Presidents underscored that in this war it is the exclusive responsibility of each country to reinforce in its respective jurisdiction applicable national laws.
The Presidents also reaffirmed once more their recognition of the courage shown by officials waging the war on drug trafficking in each country.
The Governments of Mexico and the United States further reaffirmed their intention of continuing the expeditious consultations concerning the exchange of the instruments of ratification of the mutual legal assistance agreement. President Salinas de Gortari pointed out that the Mexican Senate would have to be informed of the results of such consultations in accordance with the Mexican Constitution.
Environmental Cooperation
The Presidents emphasized the need for ongoing cooperation in the area of environmental protection.
Both Presidents instructed the authorities responsible for environmental affairs of their countries to prepare a comprehensive plan designed to periodically examine ways and means to reinforce border cooperation in this regard, based on the 1983 bilateral agreement. Such a mechanism should seek ways to improve coordination and cooperation, with a view to solving the problems of air, soil, and water quality and of hazardous wastes. State and municipal authorities of both governments and private organizations in both countries should participate in such tasks as appropriate.
Educational Cooperation
The Presidents expressed their satisfaction with the signing of an agreement to create the United States-Mexico Commission for Educational and Cultural Exchange for Scholarships, stressing the significant participation of the private sector in the Executive Board of said Commission.
Financial Cooperation
The Presidents examined the measures adopted against money laundering, as well as those designed to avoid double taxation and agreed to pursue negotiations on issues in this area.
Tourism
The Presidents agreed on the need to facilitate tourist exchange and transportation even further. To that end they agreed to support mechanisms such as the signing of a memorandum of understanding for charter buses to bring tourists into Mexico and to encourage and promote investments in this area.
World Affairs
In the area of regional and global matters, the two Presidents held an extensive exchange of views and information. President Salinas de Gortari informed President Bush of Mexico's intention to cooperate in the search for a negotiated solution to the conflict in El Salvador, in support of the measures taken by the Secretary General of the UN based on resolutions of the Security Council.
In turn, President Bush provided a detailed explanation and assessment of the Persian Gulf situation from the U.S. perspective after his recent visit to that area. The two Presidents once again expressed the desire for a peaceful resolution to the situation in accord with UN resolutions, and exhorted the Government of Iraq to effect an immediate unconditional withdrawal from Kuwait and to release at once all hostages that still remain in that country. Both Presidents expressed their satisfaction with the prevailing spirit of a frank and positive dialogue, both between themselves and their administrations, reflecting the unswerving will to sustain and strengthen the friendly relations between Mexico and the United States.
  