
    President George W. Bush today announced that he has named seven individuals to serve in his Administration:
The President has named Stephen S. McMillin to be Deputy Assistant to the President and Advisor to the Chief of Staff. Mr. McMillin recently served as Program Associate Director for General Government Programs for the Office of Management and Budget. In this capacity, he was responsible for budget and management oversight of six Cabinet agencies. Prior to joining the Administration, Mr. McMillin served on the staff of the Senate Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs for three years and on the staff of Senator Phil Gramm for nine years. During that time, he served as Senator Gramm's Legislative Director, Financial Economist and Legislative Assistant. Mr. McMillin received his bachelor's degree from the University of Texas at Austin.
The President has named Douglas B. Baker as Special Assistant to the President and Director of Border and Transportation Security. Mr. Baker recently served as Deputy Assistant Secretary at the Department of Commerce. He received his bachelor's degree from the University of Texas and his JD from South Texas College of Law.
The President has named Rudy Fernandez as Special Assistant to the President for Intergovernmental Affairs. Mr. Fernandez recently served as Deputy Assistant Secretary for Governmental Affairs at the Department of Transportation. He received his bachelor's degree from Harvard University.
The President has named Daniel W. Fisk as Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for Western Hemisphere Affairs. Mr. Fisk recently served as Deputy Assistant Secretary in the Bureau of Western Hemisphere Affairs at the Department of State. He received his bachelor's degree from the University of Tulsa. Mr. Fisk later received his master's degree and JD from Georgetown University.
The President has named Meghan L. O'Sullivan as Special Assistant to the President and Deputy National Security Advisor for Iraq and Afghanistan. Dr. O'Sullivan recently served as Senior Director for Iraq at the National Security Council. She received her bachelor's degree from Georgetown University. Dr. O'Sullivan later received her master's degree and PhD from Oxford University.
The President has named Matthew Scott Robinson as Special Assistant to the President for Speechwriting. Mr. Robinson recently served as Special Assistant in the Office of Legal Policy at the Department of Justice. He received his bachelor's degree from the University of California, San Diego.
The President has named Stephen B. Slick as Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for Intelligence Programs and Reform. Mr. Slick, a senior CIA operations officer, recently served as Director for Intelligence Programs at the National Security Council. He received his bachelor's degree from Pennsylvania State University, his master's degree from Princeton University's Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs, and his JD from the University of California, Los Angeles.
  