
    On Friday, November 11th for Veterans Day, the First Lady will participate in a series of events to honor those who have served our country in uniform, their families, caregivers, and survivors.
At 7:00AM ET, the First Lady will host the first-ever Joining Forces Veterans Day Workout on the South Lawn of the White House with U.S. Secretary of Veterans Affairs Denis McDonough. Joining Forces is the First Lady's initiative to support military and veteran families, caregivers, and survivors. The First Lady will meet with participants and deliver brief remarks.
The workout will be accessible and adaptable for individuals of all ages and skill levels, and will include a variety of organizations and veterans, service members, their families, caregivers, survivors, and non-military connected community members. Mike Erwin, founder and executive director of Team RWB (Team Red, White & Blue), an organization dedicated to supporting the mental and physical wellbeing of veterans while building connection with communities, will lead the workout. Logan Aldridge, instructor and training specialist at Peloton, and a team of therapeutic recreation specialists from the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs will lead an adaptive workout for wounded and injured participants. As part of its mission to support military families, Joining Forces seeks to build connections between military and non-military connected communities, with this workout being one of the many ways to build relationships and honor the service and sacrifice of those who have served.
This event will be open press. For interested media, RSVP HERE by Thursday, November 10th at 2:00PM ET.
At 8:00 AM ET, the First Lady will host the traditional Veterans Day breakfast at the White House. This event will be closed press.
At 11:00 AM ET, the First Lady will join Vice President Kamala Harris and Second Gentleman Douglas Emhoff at Arlington National Cemetery for the National Veterans Day Observance to honor the men and women who have served in the U.S. Armed Forces. This event will be pooled press.
  