
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
November 1
In the evening, the President spoke by telephone from the Ritz-Carlton Hotel in Amelia Island, FL, to the Arkansas Millennium Ball in Little Rock, AR.
November 2
In the morning, the President traveled from Amelia Island to Jacksonville, FL, and then to Newark, NJ. Later, he traveled to Staten Island, NY.
In the afternoon, the President traveled to Middlesex, NJ, and in the evening, he traveled to New York City. Later, he returned to Washington, DC.
The President declared a major disaster in Nebraska and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe snowstorms, rain, and strong winds, October 24-26.
November 3
In the morning, the President traveled to Alexandria, VA, and in the afternoon, he returned to Washington, DC.
The White House announced that the President will attend the Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation Economic Leaders' Meeting in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada, November 24-25.
November 5
In the morning, the President met with Representative William F. Goodling in the Oval Office.
The President announced his intention to nominate Rebecca M. Blank as a member of the Council of Economic Advisers.
The President announced his intention to nominate John Paul Hammerschmidt to serve as a member of the Metropolitan Washington Airports Authority.
The President announced his intention to appoint Mandell Ganchrow, Gary J. Lavine, Joseph Halfon, and Menno Ratzker as members of the Commission for the Preservation of America's Heritage Abroad.
The White House announced that the President invited Prime Minister Mesut Yilmaz of Turkey to the White House for a working visit on December 19.
November 6
In the morning, the President and Hillary Clinton traveled to College Station, TX. In the afternoon, they returned to Washington, DC, arriving in the evening.
The President announced his intention to nominate Gus A. Owen as a member of the Surface Transportation Board.
The President announced his intention to nominate Edward A. Powell, Jr., to be Assistant Secretary for Management at the Department of Veterans Affairs.
The President announced his intention to appoint the following individuals as new members of the Commission to Study Capital Budgeting: Willard Brittain, Stanley E. Collender, Orin S. Kramer, Richard Leone, David Levy, James T. Lynn, Cynthia Metzler, Luis Nogales, Carol O'Cleireacain, Rudolph Penner, Steven L. Rattner, Robert M. Rubin, Herbert Stein, and Laura D'Andrea Tyson.
The White House announced that the President invited President Alpha Oumar Konare of Mali to the White House for a working visit on November 19.
November 7
In the afternoon, the President met with Members of Congress in the Oval Office.
The President announced his intention to nominate Donald J. Barry to be the Assistant Secretary for Fish and Wildlife and Parks at the Department of the Interior.
The President announced his intention to nominate Federal Reserve Board Chairman Alan Greenspan to be U.S. Alternate Governor of the International Monetary Fund.
The President announced his intention to nominate Winter D. Horton, Jr., to serve as a member of the Corporation for Public Broadcasting.
The President announced his intention to nominate Elaine D. Kaplan to serve as Special Counsel in the Office of Special Counsel.
The President announced his intention to nominate Robert J. Shapiro to be Under Secretary for Economic Affairs at the Department of Commerce.
The President announced his intention to nominate Donna A. Tanoue to be Chair and member of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.
The President announced his intention to nominate Mozelle W. Thompson and Orson Swindle to be Commissioners of the Federal Trade Commission.
The White House announced that the President will host a White House Conference on Hate Crimes on November 10 at George Washington University.
  