
    As NBC News reported Sunday, Republicans in Congress don't have a plan to fight inflation, and what proposals they do have would mean higher costs for families, millions of fewer jobs, a slower economic recovery, and COVID-19 raging out of control. For months now, Republicans have treated inflation like a political football – with one GOP Senator even calling it a "gold mine" for them, and now they're showing us where their priorities really are:
First, Republicans want to remove COVID safety measures and vaccination mandates, which would inevitably drive a surge in infections and price increases driven by supply chain disruptions. In contrast, the President's vaccination plan provides a major boost to the economy – a fact confirmed by Goldman Sachs and surveys of prominent economists. The President's plan for safer workplaces and more Americans back at work means a more efficient, productive economy, and lower prices for the middle class. The Republican plan would serve to further exacerbate the pandemic, inflation, and its resulting economic pain.
Second, the Republican "plan" to oppose President Biden's Build Back Better agenda would block critical cost-saving and inflation-easing measures. The Build Back Better Agenda would help immediately address some of the biggest costs facing Americans by cutting child care costs in half, making preschool free, boosting housing supply, and making prescription drugs cheaper. It would create millions of jobs and is entirely paid for by making the wealthy and big corporations simply pay their fair share. And leading economists and forecasters agree it will ease inflationary pressures over time. Republicans want to block these measures, meaning higher prices for families, less long-term growth, and continued tax cuts for the wealthy.
While the Republican "plan" would risk returning to the depths of the pandemic and continued inflation, President Biden's vaccination plan and the Build Back Better agenda would lift the country out of the pandemic, reduce costs for families, and drive long-term growth.
Read more here:
  