
    Today, President Donald J. Trump announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key Administration posts:
Lana J. Marks of Florida, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to South Africa.
Ms. Marks is the founder and CEO of Lana Marks Ltd., Inc., a luxury fashion accessories producer. She served on the Women's Leadership Board at the Harvard Kennedy School and the Women's International Forum for more than a decade. Ms. Marks attended the University of the Witwatersrand and the Institute of Personnel Management in Johannesburg, South Africa. She speaks Afrikaans and Xhosa.
Daniel B. Maffei of New York, to be a Member of the Federal Maritime Commission for the remainder of a five-year term expiring June 30, 2022.
Mr. Maffei currently serves as Professor of Practice at the George Washington University Graduate School of Political Management. Previously, he served two years on the Federal Maritime Commission and two nonconsecutive terms in Congress representing portions of upstate New York. During his time in the House of Representatives, Mr. Maffei served on the Armed Services, Science & Technology, Financial Services, and Judiciary Committees and was the Ranking Democrat on the Science and Technology Oversight Subcommittee. He taught at the New York State College of Environmental Science and Forestry and was a Senior Fellow at Third Way and the Center for the Study of the Presidency & Congress. Prior to his service as a Member of Congress, Mr. Maffei served in senior staff positions for Senator Bill Bradley, Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, and the House Ways and Means Committee.
L. E. Sola of Florida, to be a Member of the Federal Maritime Commission for the remainder of a five-year term expiring June 30, 2023. 
Mr. Sola currently serves on the Florida Board of Pilots Commissioners and presides on the probable cause panel for maritime incidents. Previously, he was a Senior Sales Executive with Campers & Nicholson International and is a licensed International Ship Broker. He served as a consultant with Arden & Price authoring studies for the Inter-American Development Bank during the United States handover of the Panama Canal. Additionally, he served as an Adjunct Professor at Florida State University – Republic of Panama. Mr. Sola earned his B.S. in Management from the Nova Southeastern University and M.S. in International Finance from the University of Illinois. He is tri-lingual and a two-time graduate of the Defense Language Institute, Presidio of Monterey. Mr. Sola served as a Strategic Debriefer for Uunited States Army Intelligence and Security Command and subsequently in Counter Intelligence with United States Southern Command.
President Donald J. Trump announced his intention to nominate the following individuals to be Members of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for Public Broadcasting for the remainder of six-year terms expiring January 31, 2022.
• Robert A. Mandell of Florida, vice Loretta Cheryl Sutliff • Don Munce of Florida, vice Brent Franklin Nelson
— — —
President Donald J. Trump announced his intent to appoint the following individual to a key Administration post:
Major General Jeffrey L. Milhorn of Florida, to be a Member of the Interstate Commission on the Potomac River Basin.
  