
    Good morning. This is Barack Obama.
After decades of broken politics in Washington, eight years of failed policies from George Bush, and twenty-one months of campaigning – Tuesday is our opportunity to bring this country the change we need.
We face the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression. 760,000 workers have lost their jobs this year. Businesses and families can't get credit. Home values are falling, and pensions are disappearing. Wages are lower than they've been in a decade, at a time when the costs of health care and college have never been higher.
At a moment like this, with so much at stake, we can't afford four more years of the tired, old, trickle-down, on your own philosophy that got us into this mess.
America needs a new direction. That's why I'm running for President of the United States.
Senator McCain has served his country honorably. But when it comes to the economy, John McCain still can't tell the American people one major thing he'd do differently from George Bush.
At a time when so many families are hurting, John McCain wants to give a $700,000 tax cut to the average Fortune 500 CEO, but not one penny of relief to more than 100 million middle-class Americans. That's not change.
In this election, the biggest gamble we can take is embracing the same old Bush-McCain policies that have failed us for the last eight years.
We've tried it their way. It hasn't worked. It's time to turn the page.
As President, I'll give a tax break to 95 percent of workers and their families, and eliminate income taxes for seniors making under $50,000.
Unlike John McCain, I'll end tax breaks for companies that ship our jobs overseas, and give them to companies that create jobs here in America.
We'll create two million new jobs by rebuilding our crumbling infrastructure and laying broadband lines that reach every corner of the country.
We'll invest $15 billion a year over the next decade in renewable energy, creating five million new green jobs that pay well, can't be outsourced, and help end our dependence on foreign oil.
We'll reduce the cost of health care to ensure affordable, accessible coverage for all Americans. If you already have health insurance, my plan will lower your premiums. If you don't, you'll be able to get the same kind of plan I have as a Member of Congress.
We'll guarantee every child a world-class education by investing in early childhood education and recruiting an army of new teachers. And I'll make a deal with every young American: if you commit to serving your community or your country, we will make sure you can afford your college tuition.
And I will keep this country safe by ending the Iraq war responsibly – so we stop spending $10 billion a month in Iraq while it sits on a huge surplus. And I'll finish the fight against bin Laden and the terrorists who attacked us on 9/11.
None of this will be easy. It won't happen overnight. But I believe we can do all this because I believe in America. At each and every moment in our history, we've risen to meet our challenges, because we've never forgotten the fundamental truth that in America, our destiny is not written for us, but by us.
In three days, we can write our nation's next great chapter.
We can choose to end the failed philosophy that's put Wall Street ahead of Main Street and ended up hurting both.
We can choose to take on the special interests in Washington and make the White House the people's house again.
We can choose hope over fear, unity over division; the promise of change over the power of the status quo.
I'm Barack Obama. If you give me your vote on Tuesday, we won't just win this election – together, we will change this country and change the world.
Thank you for listening, and may God bless the United States of America.
  