
    Iowans from across the state are responding to Edwards' message of bold change
Des Moines, Iowa – Today, Senator John Edwards will attend the Iowa Democratic Party's Jefferson Jackson Dinner and call on America to rise up and meet the great moral test of our generation – ensuring that our children have a better, more prosperous life than we've had. Edwards has dedicated his campaign to standing up for hard-working Americans who have no voice in Washington. Edwards' speech at the Jefferson Jackson Dinner comes as his campaign is gaining momentum in Iowa with its first television ad, the endorsement of Caucus for Priorities, increasing union support and strong grassroots organizations in all 99 counties.
"This election is not about the past, it's about the future," Edwards said. "And the question is, what are we going to do for our children? Are we willing to look our children in the eye and say 'I'm going to turn this mess over to you?' I believe it's our responsibility to leave our children a better future xE2x80x93 and that means standing up to the special interests and returning our government to the American people, so we can finally restore the promise of America for our children."
Edwards' campaign continues to gain strength in Iowa. Last week the campaign launched its first television ad in Iowa, and yesterday Edwards received the endorsement of Caucus for Priorities. Iowans continue to respond to Edwards' specific plans to ensure that all Americans have the chance to work hard and get ahead. On every issue, from health care to trade to the war in Iraq, Edwards has proposed detailed solutions to change our country.
The campaign has built strong grassroots organizations in every county in Iowa. The Edwards campaign is the first campaign to announce steering committees in all 99 Iowa counties. Additionally, Edwards is the only candidate with both County Chairs and Rural County Chairs in every county, and last month Edwards reached an important milestone as he became the first candidate to visit – and answer questions from Iowans – in all 99 counties.
Last month, Edwards also earned the endorsements of the Iowa State Council of the Service Employees International Union and 11 other State Councils across the nation – including, most recently, New Hampshire. This is in addition to endorsements from the United Steelworkers, the United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners in America, the Iowa Postal Workers Union, the Transport Workers Union of America, and the United Mine Workers of America.
  