
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate five individuals to serve in his administration:
The President intends to nominate Glyn Townsend Davies, of the District of Columbia, to have the Rank of Ambassador during his tenure of service as the Political Director for the United States Presidency of the G-8. A career member of the Senior Foreign Service, Mr. Davies previously served as Deputy Chief of Mission for the American Embassy in London. Prior to this, he served as Executive Secretary for the National Security Council. Earlier, Mr. Davies served as Deputy Spokesman and Deputy Assistant Secretary for Public Affairs at the Department of State. He earned his bachelor's degree from Georgetown University, and his master's degree from the National Defense University.
The President intends to nominate William Douglas Buttrey, of Tennessee, to be a Member of the Surface Transportation Board, for a five year term expiring December 31, 2008. Mr. Buttrey currently serves as an independent consultant in Memphis, Tennessee. Previously, he served as Senior Government Affairs Representative for the Federal Express Corporation. Prior to this position, Mr. Buttrey served as Managing Director for Properties and Facilities and Manager of Airport Relations for the same corporation. Earlier, he served as Committee Counsel for the United States Senate Aviation Subcommittee. Mr. Buttrey earned his bachelor's degree from the Tennessee Technological University and his J.D. from the Memphis State University School of Law.
The President intends to nominate Francis Patrick Mulvey, of Maryland, to be a Member of the Surface Transportation Board, for the remainder of a five year term expiring December 31, 2007. Currently, Dr. Mulvey serves as Democratic Staff Director of the Railroad Committee for the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure. He previously served as Deputy Assistant Inspector General for Rail, Transit, and Special Programs for the Department of Transportation. Prior to this position, Dr. Mulvey served as Assistant Director for the U.S. General Accounting Office. He earned his bachelor's degree from New York University, his master's degree from the University of California at Berkeley, and his Ph.D. from Washington State University.
The President intends to nominate James Curtis Oberwetter, of Texas, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. Currently, Mr. Oberwetter serves as Vice President of Governmental and Political Affairs for Hunt Consolidated, Inc. He previously served as Chairman of the Texas Commission on Alcohol and Drug Abuse. Earlier, Mr. Oberwetter served as Press Secretary for then Houston Congressman George H.W. Bush. He earned his bachelor's degree from the University of Texas at Austin. The President intends to nominate Gay Hart Gaines, of Florida, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for Public Broadcasting, for a six year term expiring January 31, 2010.
  