
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate five individuals, appoint thirteen individuals and designate three individuals to serve in his Administration.
The President intends to nominate Jonathan Steven Adelstein, of South Dakota, to be a Commissioner of the Federal Communications Commission, for an additional five-year term expiring 06/30/13. Mr. Adelstein currently serves as a Commissioner of the Federal Communications Commission. Prior to this, he served as a Senior Legislative Aide to Senate Majority Leader Tom Daschle. Earlier in his career, he served as a Professional Staff Member in the Office of Senator David Pryor. Mr. Adelstein received his bachelor's degree and master's degree from Stanford University.
The President intends to designate Grace C. Becker, of New York, to be Acting Assistant Attorney General (Civil Rights).
The President intends to designate Nelson M. Ford, of Virginia, to be Acting Under Secretary of the Army.
The President intends to nominate Michael E. Fryzel, of Illinois, to be a Member of the National Credit Union Administration Board, for the remainder of a six-year term expiring 08/02/13, and upon confirmation, designate him Chairperson. Mr. Fryzel is currently an attorney in the City of Chicago. He also serves on the Illinois Governor's Board of Credit Union Advisors. Prior to this, he served as Director of the Department of Financial Institutions for the State of Illinois and as a Member of the Governor's Cabinet. Mr. Fryzel received his bachelor's degree from Valparaiso University, his MBA from the University of Chicago, and his JD from Loyola University of Chicago School of Law.
The President intends to nominate David R. Hill, of Missouri, to be Assistant Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency (Air and Radiation). Mr. Hill currently serves as General Counsel of the Department of Energy. Prior to this, he served as Deputy General Counsel for Energy Policy at the Department of Energy. Earlier in his career, he served as a Partner at Wiley, Rein & Fielding. Mr. Hill received his bachelor's degree from the University of Missouri and his JD from Northwestern University.
The President intends to nominate Charles W. Larson, Jr., of Iowa, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Latvia. Mr. Larson currently serves as a Partner at Lincoln Strategies Group. He also serves as a Major in the United States Army Reserve Judge Advocate General's Corps. Prior to this, he served as a State Representative and State Senator in the Iowa General Assembly. Mr. Larson received his bachelor's degree and JD from the University of Iowa.
The President intends to nominate Francis Mulvey, of Maryland, to be a Member of the Surface Transportation Board, for an additional five-year term expiring 12/31/2012. Mr. Mulvey currently serves as a Member of the Surface Transportation Board. Prior to this, he served as a Democratic Staff Member of the Railroad Subcommittee on the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure. Mr. Mulvey received his bachelor's degree from New York University, his master's degree from the University of California at Berkeley, and his PhD from Washington State University.
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the Presidential Emergency Board #242 to investigate the dispute between AMTRAK and eight Unions:
Ira F. Jaffe, of Maryland;
Joshua M. Javits, of the District of Columbia;
Annette M. Sandberg, of Washington;
Peter W. Tredick, of California, and upon appointment designate Chair;
Helen Mercer Witt, of Pennsylvania.
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the Board of Governors of the United Service Organizations, Incorporated, for the remainder of a three-year term expiring 10/19/10:
Edward F. Crawford, of Ohio;
Linda Maynor, of Alabama.
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Access Board:
Douglas Anderson, of Illinois, (Handicapped);
John Gunnar Box, of California, (Handicapped);
Ronald J. Gardner, of Utah, (Handicapped);
James R. Harding, II, of Florida, (Handicapped);
Neil K. Melick, of Florida;
Gary Leonard Talbot, of Michigan, (Handicapped).
  