
    Mr. Trump's Plan to Reform the Veterans Administration Lauded by Tireless Veterans' Advocate
(New York, NY) November 28, 2015 - Today Donald J. Trump announced that he is proudly receiving the endorsement of Kathryn "Kat" Gates-Skipper, the First Woman Marine in Combat Operations and tireless Veterans' advocate. Gates-Skipper will serve as Co-Chair of Florida Veterans for Donald Trump. Kathryn introduced Mr. Trump at a campaign rally in Sarasota on Saturday.
Mr. Trump stated, "It is a great honor to receive Kat's endorsement. She is a genuine patriot who has worked tirelessly in service to our country and her fellow Veterans. With her support and the support of so many other Veterans across the country, we are going to Make America Great Again."
Kathryn "Kat" Gates-Skipper served 20 years in the U.S. Marine Corps and Reserves. During her two decades of service, she was the First Woman Marine (WM) to stay overnight in the field for combat training, and the first to stay aboard a Ship overnight. She was heavily involved in Operations Desert Shield/Desert Storm and was the First WM in Combat Operations. Kat has received countless awards and recognition for her service including the Marine Corps Distinguished Service Award. A voice and advocate for Veterans, Kat is a life member of the American Legion, VFW and Marine Corps League-where she is the only female and youngest Marine at her local Detachment.
"I believe America needs strong leadership and a man like Donald Trump who will be strong on defense and ensure our Veterans have convenient access to the best quality care," said Gates-Skipper. "This Marine, this Veteran, this woman, this grandmother wants her grandchildren to grow up in an America of hard work with high rewards. That is why I am proud to be the Co-Chair of the Florida Veterans for Donald Trump, and pledge to rally other Veterans behind the only man that will fight for us, Donald J. Trump."
Mr. Trump has consistently called for better treatment of our Veterans and his support is well documented. Mr. Trump's recently released Veterans Administration Reform plan has received praise from Veterans all over the country.
Thousands attended the rally in Sarasota on Saturday, where Mr. Trump returned for the first time since he was honored with the Republican Party of Sarasota Statesmen of the Year award for the second time this spring. He continues to visit Florida regularly where his campaign office is located in Sarasota [1517 State Street, Suite 300], and he owns and operates some of the most iconic properties in the country employing thousands of people.
On Monday, Mr. Trump will host an informational meet and greet with many members of the Coalition of African American Ministers. This is not a press event, but a private meeting, after which, a number of attendees are expected to endorse Mr. Trump's campaign for President. Mr. Trump said, "As a Christian, I have had a tremendous relationship with large numbers of religious leaders, who I greatly respect. I look forward to our meeting."
  