
    Dear Mr. Speaker: 
I ask the Congress to consider the enclosed Fiscal Year (FY) 2018 Budget amendments for the Department of Defense (DOD). The request includes an additional $4.0 billion to support urgent missile defeat and defense enhancements to counter the threat from North Korea, $0.7 billion to repair damage to U.S. Navy ships, and $1.2 billion in support of my Administration's South Asia strategy.
This request supports additional efforts to detect, defeat, and defend against any North Korean use of ballistic missiles against the United States, its deployed forces, allies, or partners. The request also includes costs necessary to repair damage to and restore the operational readiness of the USS John S. McCain and the USS Fitzgerald. These ships provide critical naval presence and additional ballistic missile defense capabilities in the Asia-Pacific theater. My Administration requests that the funding requested for missile defense and Navy ship repairs be designated as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 (the "Act").
This request also includes costs associated with increased U.S. troop levels in Afghanistan in support of my Administration's South Asia strategy. The additional resources would enable DOD to deploy an additional 3,500 troops, and includes funding for urgent needs and special operations forces capabilities. My Administration requests that the funding to support the South Asia strategy be designated as Overseas Contingency Operations pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Act.
In addition, I ask the Congress to act on the FY 2018 Budget request for the border wall of $1.6 billion within the Department of Homeland Security Customs and Border Protection (CBP) Procurement, Construction, and Improvements account. Providing for the safety and security of the American people is my top priority. That priority is reflected in both the enclosed DOD Budget amendments and the border wall request, which provides the down payment on what CBP needs to secure the southwest border.
The details of the DOD Budget amendments are set forth in the enclosure from the Director of the Office of Management and Budget. The border wall request was set forth in the FY 2018 Budget request.
Sincerely,
DONALD J. TRUMP
  