
    The Rudy Giuliani Presidential Committee today announced additions to its Maryland Campaign Leadership Team. Serving as Maryland State Co-Chairs are Harford County Executive David Craig, Anne Arundel County Executive John Leopold, Wicomico County Council Member Gail Bartkovich, former Montgomery County Council Member Howie Denis and former State's Attorney Scott Rolle.
The State Chairman, former Maryland Governor Robert Ehrlich, endorsed Mayor Giuliani in March.
"This is a top-notch team of prominent Republicans who are excited by Rudy Giuliani's proven leadership and vision for the future of our nation. We are honored to build upon the tremendous amount of support that already exists for Rudy in Maryland," said Ehrlich, who is also spearheading the Mayor's Mid-Atlantic campaign efforts. "Marylanders know about Rudy's commitment to fiscal responsibility and low taxes."
About Rudy's Maryland Leadership Team Additions:
Gail Bartkovich, a retired dental hygienist, was first elected to the Wicomico County Council in November 2002 and is a member of the Salisbury-Wicomico County Planning and Zoning Commission.
David Craig has served as Harford County Executive since July 2005. He has been with the Harford County public school system for 34 years. He also served as Mayor of Havre de Grace and as a State Delegate and Senator in the Maryland General Assembly.
Howard Denis most recently served on the Montgomery County Council after representing Montgomery County in the Maryland State Senate.
John Leopold was elected Anne Arundel County Executive in November 2006 after representing the county in the House of Delegates for 20 years. At the time of his initial election as State Delegate, he was the first Republican to ever represent his district. Before moving to Maryland, Leopold served in the Hawaii State House of Representatives and Senate.
Scott Rolle was elected to serve three terms as State's Attorney for Frederick County. A graduate of the F.B.I. National Law Institute, Rolle is an adjunct professor of criminal law at Mount Saint Mary's University and Frederick Community College. He also serves as a Captain in the United States Army Reserve.
  