
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
October 30
In the morning, the President and Hillary Clinton traveled to Providence, RI, to attend the funeral service for Senator John H. Chafee, and in the evening, they returned to Washington, DC.
October 31
In the afternoon, the President traveled to Oslo, Norway, arriving the following morning.
November 1
In the morning, the President attended an arrival ceremony and later met with King Harald V of Norway in the King's Office at the Royal Palace.
In the afternoon, the President met with Prime Minister Ehud Barak of Israel in the Holmenkollen Room II at the Radisson Plaza Hotel.
In the evening, the President attended a memorial dinner honoring Yitzhak Rabin in the Grand Ballroom at the Royal Palace.
The President announced his intention to nominate Michael G. Rossmann and Daniel Simberloff to be members of the National Science Board.
The President announced his intention to reappoint Patrick D. Cannon and June I. Kailes as members of the Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board.
November 2
In the afternoon, the President met with Prime Minister Vladimir Putin of Russia in the Library Room at City Hall.
The President had separate telephone conversations with Gov. Paul E. Patton of Kentucky; Lt. Gov. Ronnie Musgrove of Mississippi; Mayor-elect Bart Peterson of Indianapolis, IN; Mayor Woodrow Stanley of Flint, MI; Mayor-elect Michael Coleman of Columbus, OH; Mayor-elect John F. Street of Philadelphia, PA; Mayor Edward Rendell of Philadelphia, chairman, Democratic National Committee; and B.J. Thornberry, executive director, Democratic Governors Association.
In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC.
The President announced his intention to nominate Revius Ortique to be U.S. Alternate Representative to the 54th session of the General Assembly of the United Nations.
The President announced his intention to nominate Irwin Belk to be Alternate Delegate for the 54th session of the General Assembly of the United Nations.
The President announced his intention to nominate Earl Anthony Wayne to be Assistant Secretary for Economic and Business Affairs at the Department of State.
The President announced his intention to appoint Gail S. Schoettler for rank of Ambassador as head of the U.S. delegation to the World Radio Conference.
November 3
In the afternoon, the President met with Deputy Prime Minister Abdallah Saud and Minister of Defense Prince Sultan of Saudi Arabia in the Oval Office.
In the evening, the President met with former Senator George J. Mitchell in the Residence at the White House.
November 4
In the morning, the President traveled to Newark, NJ.
In the afternoon, the President traveled to Hartford, CT, where he toured the El Mercado marketplace.
In the evening, the President traveled to Little Rock, AR.
The President announced his intention to nominate Carol J. Carmody to be a member of the National Transportation Safety Board.
The President announced his intention to appoint Valdis Mezainis as a member of the Enterprise for the Americas Board.
November 5
In the morning, the President traveled to Hermitage, AR, where he toured the Hermitage Tomato Cooperative Association.
In the afternoon, the President traveled to Chicago, IL, and in the evening, he returned to Washington, DC, arriving after midnight.
  