
    Mr. Chairman, Mr. Ambassador, Senator Beall, Chairman Durham and members of the Atomic Energy family and my friends:
As we contemplate the great scientific achievement of turning the atom and its mysteries to the use of man, we are tempted to turn our memories back toward the dawn of history and think of some of the other occasions when men have succeeded in penetrating nature's secrets, using her laws for their own purposes.
The strange thing about this is that every one of these inventions or these discoveries has been capable of a wicked or of a good use. When man discovered fire, he found possibly the greatest secret that has ever yet been brought to man's knowledge for his betterment. It is difficult to imagine a world without fire. Yet fire is also used in bombs in war. We have the crime of arson on our books. The discovery itself was good but men can make good or evil use of it.
The whole field of chemistry has brought to us curing drugs, sulfa drugs, the wonder drugs--Salk vaccine. It has also brought to us the most deadly poisons. And even poisons themselves, they may be used to exterminate vermin that are the curse of men, or they can be used for wicked purposes of destroying men.
And so in this modern time man has discovered another of the great secrets of nature. What differentiates it from all others is the terrible possibilities it opens for wicked men, people who want to use this new discovery for the destruction of mankind now have placed in their hands a power that certainly should give all of us pause. It should awaken man's conscience and appeal to his common sense. Because not only does it bring a sudden possibility of self-destruction but on the other side of that same coin again we have new possibilities for good--the production of power where no power was possible or was known--its usefulness in agriculture, in medicine, biology--everything we can think of. Mr. Strauss just called our attention to the fact that through it we can determine the age of objects that we find upon our earth.
That is the kind of choice that men must soon face up to, and we must do our part to see that the choice is correctly made. Man's judgment and intelligence must measure up quickly to his inventive genius or mankind's future is bleak indeed.
And so we must be strong in faith, in the faith of our fathers. We must be strong in our own determination to do right, to understand the feelings and fears and aspirations of others, as we expect them to understand our peaceful purposes.
The United States craves no other's territory. It wants no additional power in the world, or domination over any other people. It needs no greater extent of territory or of riches. It wants nothing but a peaceful world in which all peoples can share in the great happiness and betterment that a just peace can bring.
So, as I stand here, I would like to salute the people who have worked so hard in the development of this new science. On the one hand you have devoted your talents and energies, no matter in what capacity, to help make our country secure against those who would use this new power wickedly. And at the same time, through the efforts of yourselves and the people that work with you throughout the United States, there have been found new ways to make this great discovery useful to man.
I think that if in our time, or before our time is done, we can point to one single real step that can give the whole world the conviction that the peaceful use of atomic energy is now on the way, that all people--those who are our friends now and those who can one day be our friends--all people can then live in greater contentment and greater peace.
I think that if this convocation here today--I am positive-that if they could have one wish, it would be that the curse of the atomic explosion may pass from man's knowledge and only the good that results from this great discovery would be with us always.
And now it is my very great pleasure, and my proud privilege, to push this button that Chairman Strauss has told how it works-and I certainly hope it does.
  