
    Today, I take great pride in signing an Executive order that will give the Department of Justice leadership and coordination responsibilities for fighting illegal discrimination in Federal programs.
On May 1, 1980, I announced that I would be issuing an Executive order to strengthen the participation of the handicapped in Federal and federally assisted programs. In the course of developing that Executive order, I determined that it afforded an excellent opportunity to strengthen across the board implementation of statutes banning discrimination based not only on handicap but also on race, color, religion, national origin, and sex in federally assisted programs. Accordingly, the Executive order I am signing today is an important step toward a comprehensive, coherent approach to the goal of distributing Federal aid on a nondiscriminatory basis.
Under this Executive order, primary enforcement responsibility will remain with the agencies for their own programs, while coordination responsibility, in areas other than employment, will be vested in the Department of Justice. This will complement the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission's leadership responsibility in the equal employment area.
I am delegating to the Attorney General, through this Executive order, authority to approve regulations implementing laws prohibiting discrimination. Within the limits of regulatory discretion under the governing statute, the Attorney General should continue this administration's practice of balancing competing national goals to determine the general public interest. I am also instructing him to bring to my attention regulations that raise particularly difficult policy issues.
The Attorney General will be developing procedures to end duplication, inconsistency, and conflict in this crucial area. He will oversee the development of basic standards for such key elements of a compliance program as data collection, complaint investigations, cooperation with State and local human rights agencies, and the imposition of sanctions. The order also calls for the Attorney General to prepare a plan for carrying out the responsibilities assigned to him under this order. The Attorney General already has such a plan in draft form.
I believe that the action I am taking today will make it easier for those jurisdictions which wish to comply with Federal nondiscrimination statutes and much harder for those who seek to violate those provisions. It is an outgrowth of my determination to prevent Federal dollars from being used to perpetuate patterns of conduct which inhibit the full enjoyment of Federal financial assistance by all groups within our society.
  