
    Des Moines, IA -- 268 Iowa Republicans today announced their support for Senator Barack Obama, saying he is the only candidate in either party who can break through the gridlock in Washington because he has a proven record of bringing Republicans and Democrats together to solve problems. In Illinois, Obama bridged the partisan divide to extend health care to 150,000 Illinois families, pass a $100 million tax cut for working families and enact historic ethics reform.
"With all challenges our country faces, we cannot elect a President who will go to Washington and just get bogged down by the same partisan gridlock," Brett Blix said. "That's why I'm supporting Senator Obama even though I'm a Republican. He's the only candidate in either party with a record of bringing Republicans and Democrats together to solve problems, and he will always tell you where he stands even when you disagree. There are thousands of disaffected Republicans like me who are disappointed by President Bush and the Republican presidential candidates who would consider voting for a Democrat who can bring about change we can believe in."
Brett Blix is 30-year-old Iraq war veteran from Northwood, Iowa. He recently switched his party registration so that he can caucus for Senator Obama.
This public support from Iowa Republicans is yet another sign of Senator Obama's crossover appeal. Previously, Obama received third place in a poll of Republican caucus goers - receiving more support from Republicans than Mike Huckabee, John McCain and Sam Brownback combined. University of Iowa Professor and John Edwards supporter David Redlawsk said, "I do think that the message Obama is putting out right now is the most likely to reach across party lines."
"I've always believed that you can only bring about real change when people come together across party lines, and I've seen what happens when folks put politics aside and get down to work," Senator Obama said. "If you can't bring people together across the old fault lines, you simply aren't going to be able to make progress on the challenges we face."
Last weekend, Former Senate Majority Leader Tom Daschle from South Dakota, former Mississippi Governor Ray Mabus and former Oklahoma Congressman Brad Carson, all Democrats from so-called red states, criss-crossed Iowa talking about how Obama appeals to the Republicans and Independents in their home states.
  