
    I want to thank all my fellow leaders and the Trade Ministers for joining us here today. I know we all have very busy schedules, so I'm going to keep my remarks brief.
We're here today because the Trans-Pacific Partnership is a high priority for our nations and for the region. As President, strengthening American leadership in the Asia-Pacific has been one of my top foreign policy priorities. And central to that objective is working with some of our most important trading partners to try to find ways in which we can facilitate increased growth for all of us, increased investment for all of us, improved jobs prospects for all of us.
And what we are seeing is momentum building around a Trans-Pacific Partnership that can spur greater economic growth, spur greater jobs growth, set high standards for trade and investment throughout the Asia-Pacific. And I don't think I have to explain to the press why this region is so important. This is the fastest growing, most populous, most dynamic region in the world economically.
During the past few weeks, our teams have made good progress in resolving several outstanding issues regarding a potential agreement. Today is an opportunity at the political level for us to break some remaining logjams. To ensure that TPP is a success, we also have to make sure that all of our people back home understand the benefits for them: that it means more trade, more good jobs, and higher incomes for people throughout the region, including the United States. And that's a case that I'll continue to make to Congress and the American people. And I know that the leaders here are committed to making that case as well.
This has the potential for being a historic achievement. It's now up to all of us to see if we can finalize a deal that is both ambitious and comprehensive. The stronger the agreement, the greater the benefits to our people.
So to all my fellow leaders, I want to thank you not just for your participation here today, but more importantly, for the mandate that you have given to your negotiating teams to engage in some very serious work that promises to deliver greater prosperity, trade, and commerce between our nations in the future.
Thank you very much. Thank you, guys.
  