
    
Yang rises to 4 percent in new Quinnipiac poll out of South Carolina
Yang is now one poll away from securing a spot on the December debate stage

In a Quinnipiac poll released today, Andrew Yang received 4 percent support in South Carolina, the third poll qualifying him for the December Democratic debate. Quinnipiac conducted the poll of likely Democratic primary voters between November 13 to 17.
Yang's New Way Forward message continues to poll well among young voters. Yang was ranked 4th in the 18 to 34 demographic. His future-looking platform that addresses the problems America is speeding towards resonates among those who are planning for this new world.
Yang frequently talks about the need to make things better for future generations when it comes to jobs, education, and the environment. He's also set himself apart from other candidates in the field, focusing on the problems that got Trump elected in 2016. Yang's solutions will directly tackle the changing economic landscape and loss of jobs to automation.
With 61 percent of voters still forming their opinion on Yang, he will only continue to rise in the polls as his message reaches them. South Carolina voters will get a chance to get to know Yang better, as he visits the Palmetto state on Friday and continues to make investments in staff.
"It's no surprise that Yang is only one poll away from qualifying for the December Democratic debate. We will continue to succeed in South Carolina as Yang prioritizes creating a New Way Forward for Americans. There's little doubt Yang will be debating in December – and beyond," said Campaign Chief Nick Ryan.
"We're excited to see that our investment of time and resources in South Carolina is allowing us to share Andrew Yang's message in a way that is resonating among voters. Our growing team will continue to work diligently, building support for his platform among our friends and neighbors in every corner of the state for the next 103 days," said South Carolina State Director Heidi Johnson-Young.
While in South Carolina, Yang will participate in a Bully Pulpit Series at the College of Charleston, appear at Pints and Politics hosted by the Post and Courier, and host a Columbia field office meet and greet. Yang will round-out his Friday South Carolina trip with a rally in Rock Hill on Friday night.
  