
    "There are fundamental choices we must make: Will we put country first ahead of partisanship? Will we continue to lead the world's economies or will we be overtaken? Will the world become safer or more dangerous? Will our military remain the strongest in the world? Will our children's and grandchildren's future be brighter than ours? We have the power to offer a resounding 'yes!' to those questions if we vote for John McCain." -- Sen. Mel Martinez
"Sen. Mel Martinez: John McCain Will Bring The Right Type Of Change"Sen. Mel Martinez
South Florida Sun SentinelOctober 31, 2008
This historic election could define our nation for the next generation and beyond. We can all agree that change is what the country needs and that change will come regardless of whom we select Nov. 4. The question remains: Will we choose the correct type of change at this moment of crisis?
There are fundamental choices we must make: Will we put country first ahead of partisanship? Will we continue to lead the world's economies or will we be overtaken? Will the world become safer or more dangerous? Will our military remain the strongest in the world? Will our children's and grandchildren's future be brighter than ours?
We have the power to offer a resounding "yes!" to those questions if we vote for John McCain. The leadership of our nation cannot be left to the untried and untested, nor can our nation risk our future on a candidate who avoids the tough choices required of the office.
"A president can't vote 'present.' A president can't pick and choose which challenges he or she will face."
I agree with those words. I find them especially poignant because they came from Sen. Hillary Clinton.
From his stint in the Illinois Senate to his even shorter time in the U.S. Senate, Barack Obama has made it a habit to avoid the politically risky move. Whether it was funding our military fighting for freedom, or avoiding the call for regulation of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, when John McCain and I sounded the alarm, there have been two guiding principals of Sen. Obama's career: political expediency and blind ambition.
At this moment in our history, it is imperative we choose someone who can lead in a bipartisan manner. John McCain's career in the Senate is a testament to this type of leadership.
He was willing to put good policy ahead of his presidential campaign by joining with liberal icon Sen. Ted Kennedy on immigration reform.
He partnered with Sen. Joe Lieberman to bring the first real climate change bill to a vote in the Senate and he teamed with Sen. Russ Feingold, D-Wis., to usher in campaign finance reform.
Ironically, Obama rejected the McCain-Feingold law this election, making him the first person to use unlimited money -- a large portion unreported to this day -- since the days of Watergate.
Read The Entire Article
  