
    
Gifts for everyone on your list, from the capital-F feminist to the cocktail enthusiast.
We all have someone on our gift list who's impossible to shop for. But this year, Team Hillary's got you covered for some of the hardest-to-please people in your life. You'll never have to resort to a gift card again (but if you do, this one's pretty great!).

For the capital-F feminist who wrote her fifth-grade essay about why it's time to break the glass ceiling:

Hillary's been a feminist icon since the ?90s, when she went to Beijing to tell the whole world that women's rights are human rights, once and for all. Help your favorite feminist put an exclamation point on that sentiment with some fabulous pro-equality gifts.


    Hillary in seven buttons
  

    Statement bag
  

    Trailblazer tee
  

For your craft cocktail?obsessed co-worker:

Do they love craft beer? Send them some pint glasses. Do they bring their own wine to your party because yours won't be good enough? Wine glasses it is! No matter their beverage of choice, we've got all the barware you need for choosy people (who are choosing Hillary!).


    Pint glasses
  

    Rocks glasses
  

    Wine glasses
  

    Bottle opener keychain
  

For your son or daughter who acts cool but secretly REALLY LOVES THE HOLIDAYS:

Holiday cookie-baking? Tree trim? Ugly sweater party? Your kids will win every last holiday party with this festive Hillary gear.


    Holiday sweatshirt
  

    Cookie cutter
  

    Ornament
  

For the dog parents who treat their pup like a human:

Fido is way more likely to get into the best doggie day care when he's rocking a Hillary bandana or collar charm. Either way, he'll be the flyest pup in the dog park.


    Collar charm
  

    Bandana
  

    Yard sign
  

For your grandma who is objectively much cooler than you are:

Whether she's rocking bingo night, a mall walk, or the Hillary 2016 volunteer center, make sure your family's matriarch gets the style recognition she deserves in these super-fun looks:


    Pantsuit tee
  

    Yaaas tee
  

    Wool hat
  

  