
    The President today declared a major disaster exists in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts and ordered Federal aid to supplement Commonwealth and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms and flooding on October 7-16, 2005.
The President's action makes Federal funding available to affected individuals in the counties of Berkshire, Bristol, Franklin, Hampden, Hampshire, Middlesex, Norfolk, Plymouth, and Worcester.
Assistance can include grants for temporary housing and home repairs, low-cost loans to cover uninsured property losses, and other programs to help individuals and business owners recover from the effects of the disaster.
Federal funding also is available to State and eligible local governments and certain private nonprofit organizations on a cost-sharing basis for emergency work and the repair or replacement of facilities damaged by the severe storms and flooding in the counties of Berkshire, Franklin, Hampden, Hampshire.
Federal funding is also available on a cost-sharing basis for hazard mitigation measures for the counties of Berkshire, Bristol, Essex, Franklin, Hampden, Hampshire, Middlesex, Norfolk, Plymouth, Suffolk, and Worcester.
Representing the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), R. David Paulison, Acting Director, Department of Homeland Security, named Peter J. Martinasco as the Federal Coordinating Officer for Federal recovery operations in the affected area.
The Agency said additional designations may be made at a later date if requested by the State and warranted by the results of further damage assessments.
The Agency said that residents and business owners who sustained losses in the designated counties can begin applying for assistance tomorrow by registering online at http://www.fema.gov or by calling 1-800-621-FEMA(3362) or 1-800-462-7585 (TTY) for the hearing and speech impaired. The toll-free telephone numbers will operate from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. Monday through Friday.
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: FEMA (202) 646-4600.
  