
    150-second online ad cross-examines the former Speaker's record on policy, values and seriousness
LAKE JACKSON, Texas — The Ron Paul 2012 Presidential campaign announced today that it has released and will broadly distribute a 150-second online advertisement that challenges former House Speaker Newt Gingrich on a group of issues dear to conservative voters.
Much of the ad is in the former Speaker's own voice, and after a few statements by Newt it follows with an image of him sitting on a loveseat beside former House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, the two chuckling over their agreement concerning as-yet scientifically proven anthropogenic global warming. The ad also features Newt's knee-jerk assault on Rep. Paul Ryan's (R-WI) modest budget proposal, and the former Speaker's lobbying ties to government mortgage giants Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae that perpetuated the financial crisis and recession. In addition, the spot showcases discussion of Newt's lobbying ties to healthcare firms prior to his support of an Obama-Pelosi-Reid individual mandate as part of the recent wildly unpopular healthcare reform, to the absolute horror of nationally-syndicated conservative radio talk show host Rush Limbaugh.
Taken together, claims made in the ad present conservative voters with a question about Newt, and indeed the ad concludes with this query. And that is "What will you tell me next time?"
The campaign will send the ad to a far-reaching email list of conservative voters nationally, including in key early voting states, and it will purchase banner ads on national and state websites where conservative readers congregate.
"Our campaign is making a bold move to debunk the myth that the Newt we are seeing on the 2012 campaign trail is the conservative he has been touted to be all along. This step we are taking is necessary, as voters are seeking authenticity among conservatives who are able to show a decades-long career of consistently walking the walk of Constitutional principles, limited government, and promoting sound money and economic policy. Ron Paul is the only Republican presidential candidate with that record," said Ron Paul 2012 National Campaign Chairman Jesse Benton.
To view the online ad, click here.
  