
    1. President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono and President Barack Obama met in Bali on November 18, 2011. The two presidents reaffirmed the deepening engagement between the two countries on regional and global issues since establishing the U.S.-Indonesia Comprehensive Partnership in November 2010.
2. President Obama expressed the United States' admiration for Indonesia's democratic transformation, and the two presidents reaffirmed their commitment to strengthen democracy and human rights in their own societies. President Obama welcomed Indonesia's leadership of the Bali Democracy Forum as part of Indonesia's democracy promotion efforts. President Obama also reiterated the United States' support for Indonesia's national unity and territorial integrity.
3. President Obama congratulated Indonesia on its chairmanship of ASEAN and the East Asia Summit (EAS); its efforts to promote regional security, nonproliferation, and disarmament; and commitment to making democracy and human rights platforms for ASEAN's development.
4. President Yudhoyono welcomed the United States' inclusion in the EAS, noting it was the first time a U.S. president participated in the Summit. The leaders affirmed the EAS as the region's premier forum for leaders to discuss strategic political and security issues.
5. The two presidents applauded the results of the second Comprehensive Partnership Joint Commission meeting that took place in Bali in July 2011 and emphasized the need to further deepen cooperation under the U.S.-Indonesia Comprehensive Partnership's Plan of Action. The two leaders looked forward to the next session of the Joint Commission meeting in 2012.
6. The two presidents announced a $600 million Millennium Challenge Corporation Compact to support environmentally-sustainable economic development through clean energy projects and sustainable landscapes projects, community-based nutrition programs, and procurement modernization.
7. The two presidents welcomed the outcome of the Indonesia-U.S. Security Dialogue (IUSSD) in Jakarta on September 22-23, 2011 and announced the planned transfer and upgrade of 24 Excess Defense Article F-16s to the Indonesian Air Force.
8. The two presidents celebrated the success of the U.S.-Indonesia Higher Education Summit, October 31, 2011 in Washington, D.C. The two presidents also reaffirmed their support for increased education opportunities that will benefit students from both nations and enhance people-to-people ties, and welcomed continued progress in the U.S.-Indonesia Higher Education Partnership. The two presidents welcomed the commemoration of the 60th anniversary of Fulbright in Indonesia and the 20th anniversary of the American-Indonesian Exchange Foundation (AMINEF).
9. The two presidents noted their growing cooperation to address climate change and environmental challenges. The two presidents welcomed the signing of a second Tropical Forest Conservation Act debt-for-nature swap, as well as progress by the Indonesia Climate Change Center on science-based policy recommendations for peat lands, as milestones in bilateral efforts on conservation, biodiversity and climate change. They also agreed to work together, including through the Major Economies Forum on Energy and Climate and other international fora, to achieve a successful outcome at the upcoming climate change negotiations in Durban, South Africa.
10. The two presidents also noted the expanded cooperation on clean and renewable energy under the auspices of the U.S.-Indonesia Energy Policy Dialogue.
11. The two presidents reaffirmed the need for decisive action to achieve sustainable global food security. The two presidents set a goal of substantially increasing bilateral trade in food, fisheries, and sustainably managed forestry products, which will expand employment opportunities for both nations. The two presidents welcomed the development of the Advanced Science Center for Agriculture and Food Security and committed to bilateral efforts to increase agricultural productivity and sustainable fisheries.
12. President Yudhoyono appreciates President Obama's approval of the extension of the Generalized System of Preferences (GSP) facility to Indonesia on October 21, 2011. The two presidents reaffirmed their commitment to expanding commercial ties, noting that the newly-launched Commercial Dialogue will further expand trade opportunities and job creation. The two presidents welcomed the significant expansion of bilateral trade and investment, benefitting both countries' economies.
13. The two presidents welcomed the construction of Indonesia's Santi Dharma Peacekeeping Center, with U.S. support, as an important step forward in fulfilling Indonesia's ambitious goals for increasing its peacekeeping contributions around the world.
14. The two presidents celebrated the ongoing success of Peace Corps in Indonesia and reaffirmed their support for the program's expansion on a gradual basis.
15. Under the framework of our bilateral Science and Technology Agreement, President Obama and President Yudhoyono decided to convene a new senior-level science and technology dialogue in the coming year and to strengthen joint research, education, and exchange opportunities.
16. The two presidents reaffirmed their commitment to work together in the area of public health to meet Millennium Development Goals to reduce deaths of young children and women in childbirth and to stem the spread of infectious diseases, especially tuberculosis, HIV/AIDS, and avian influenza.
17. The two presidents reaffirmed the importance of EAS and reaffirmed their commitment to working together--including through international fora--to promote peace and prosperity in both countries, the region, and the world. They expressed their commitment to work together with ASEAN and other regional partners to address key challenges in the region, including maritime security, disaster preparedness and relief, and nonproliferation.
18. President Yudhoyono congratulated President Obama on the success of the U.S. Chairmanship of APEC 2011. President Obama expressed U.S. support for Indonesia's APEC Chairmanship in 2013.
19. President Yudhoyono welcomed President Obama's creation of the Open Government Partnership to improve government transparency, and the two leaders committed to rapidly implementing their national action plans. President Obama thanked Indonesia for its leadership on the steering committee of the Open Government Partnership.
20. The two presidents reaffirmed the importance of the G20 as the premier international economic forum, and discussed their efforts to promote economic recovery and create jobs by implementing the Cannes Summit commitments, and call on all G20 members to make progress on achieving G20 goals.
21. The two presidents reaffirmed their commitment to advancing the U.S.-Indonesia Comprehensive Partnership as a dynamic and enduring partnership that contributes to the security and prosperity of both countries. They also committed to work together to find solutions to strengthen international peace and cooperation in light of ongoing global economic conditions, political transitions, and other transnational challenges.
  