
    Patty Caferatta to help lead Cruz effort in the Silver State
HOUSTON, Texas – Today, Presidential candidate Ted Cruz proudly announced the endorsement of Patty Cafferata, one of Nevada's most respected Republican leaders and the first female to be elected to a statewide Constitutional office in the Silver State. Cafferata will serve as Chairwoman in Washoe County for the Cruz for President campaign and will also serve on the statewide Leadership Team. Nevada holds the first Republican contest in the West with its caucuses scheduled for February 23 — just after Iowa, New Hampshire, and South Carolina.
"We are delighted to have Patty Cafferata join our growing team of courageous conservatives in Nevada," Cruz said. "Her background and experience in national, state, and local politics is unparalleled in the state. She is truly a pioneer who has earned the love and respect of so many Nevadans, and we couldn't be more thrilled that she has joined our grassroots campaign."
"I am honored to join the campaign to help Ted Cruz win Nevada," stated Patty Cafferata. "As I've watched and listened to each of the candidates, Ted is clearly the candidate who stands out as the most principled conservative leader I trust who will lead with conviction, honesty, and integrity. He will make a great nominee for our Republican Party and as President, he will restore the individual liberties we so cherish in this great country."
Patty Cafferata has had a diverse career in the law and politics. She has served as a District Attorney, a Nevada State Assemblywoman, and she became the first Nevada female to win a statewide constitutional office when voters elected her State Treasurer in 1982. Her mother was former U.S. Congresswoman Barbara Vucanovich, who was the first Nevada female elected to Congress in Nevada. In 1984, Cafferata co-chaired President Ronald Reagan's campaign in Nevada and served as Nevada's Republican National Committeewoman during the 1990s.
From 2007 to 2009, Cafferata also served as the Executive Director of the Nevada Commission on Ethics and she currently serves as Special Assistant Attorney General for Law Enforcement, Counties, and Municipalities to Nevada Attorney General Adam Laxalt. Attorney, author, and historian, Cafferata wrote and published eight books on Nevada history and co-authored her mother's memoir, Barbara F. Vucanovich: From Nevada to Congress and Back Again.
  