
    Mitt Romney Shares His "Vision for America"
ABC News/Univision
By Mitt Romney
November 5, 2012
http://abcnews.go.com
Tomorrow is Election Day. The closing hours of a campaign have a dynamic of their own. Many voters have known for some time who they will vote for. Others are just now putting aside the demands of daily life and considering how their vote will affect their lives, the lives of their children, and the course of the country we love.
We ask you to look beyond the speeches and the attacks and the ads. Look to the record, the accomplishments and failures, and the judgment. Words are cheap. A record is real and earned with effort. Change cannot be measured in speeches; it is measured in achievements.
Four years ago, candidate Obama promised to do so very much, but he has fallen so very short. He promised to be a "post-partisan president" but he became the most partisan-- blaming, attacking, dividing. He was going to focus on creating jobs. Instead, he focused on Obamacare, which killed jobs. He said he was going to cut the federal deficit by half; then he doubled it.
He said that the unemployment rate would now be 5.2 percent; on Friday we learned that it is 7.9 percent -- it is 9 million jobs short of what he promised. Americans of Hispanic descent have been hit particularly hard by the President's failure to get our economy growing again. For the most part of Mr. Obama's presidency, the unemployment rate among Hispanics has remained at or near 10 percent. That is unacceptable.
President Obama promised change, but he could not deliver it. I promise change, and I have a record of achieving it.
I built a business, and turned around another. I helped put an Olympics back on track. And with a Democrat legislature, I helped turn my state from deficit to surplus, from job losses to job growth, and from higher taxes to higher take-home pay.
This is why I am running for president. I know how to change the course the nation is on, how to get us to a balanced budget and how to build jobs and rising take-home pay. Accomplishing real change is not something I just talk about -- it is something I have done. And it is what will do when I am President of the United States.
People across the country are responding to our comprehensive plan to create jobs. Among the things I intend to do is to boost trade, especially with Latin America. I will ask Congress for Trade Promotion Authority, a power every president has used or requested since it was first created in 1974, with the exception of President Obama.
Hispanic Americans are a major force in small business, which is itself the biggest driver of employment in our country. I intend to launch a sweeping review of all Obama-era regulations with an eye to eliminating or repairing those that are killing jobs and hurting small businesses. Every Hispanic small-business person and every job creator will know that for the first time in four years, the government of the United States likes business and loves the jobs and higher wages business brings to our fellow Americans.
I will work day and night to ensure that Hispanic children have access to a great education, affordable college, and a good paying job after graduation. I will reform Medicare and Social Security so that it doesn't fail this or future generations. l will grant you control of your healthcare decisions, not a bunch of bureaucrats in Washington. And I will achieve what President Obama promised you but did not even try to deliver -- a bipartisan agreement on immigration reform.
We are one day away from a fresh start. One day away from the first day of a new beginning. If there is anyone worried the last four years are the best we can do, if there is anyone who fears that the American Dream is fading away, if there is anyone who wonders whether better jobs and better paychecks are things of the past, I have a clear and unequivocal message: with the right leadership, America will come roaring back.
Americans don't settle. We build, we aspire, we listen to that voice inside that says, "We can do better." A better job; a better life for our children; a bigger, better country.
The door to a brighter future is there, open, waiting for us. I need your vote, I need your help. Walk with me, walk together. Let us start anew.
  