
    Today I have signed into law H.R. 4628, the "Intelligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2003," which authorizes appropriations to fund United States intelligence activities, including activities essential to success in the war against global terrorism. This Act also establishes the National Commission on Terrorist Attacks Upon the United States to examine and report on the facts and causes relating to the September 11th terrorist attacks. The Commission will build upon the work of the congressional joint inquiries to carefully examine the circumstances surrounding the attacks and the lessons to be learned from them. I expect that the Commission's final report will contain important recommendations for steps that can be taken to improve our preparedness for and response to terrorist attacks in the future.
The executive branch shall implement sections 325, 334, and 826 of the Act, and section 8H(g)(1)(A) of the Inspector General Act of 1978 as enacted by section 825 of the Act, relating to submission of recommendations to the Congress, in a manner consistent with the President's constitutional authority to supervise the unitary executive branch.
Many provisions of the Act, including section 342 and title VIII, establish new requirements for the executive branch to disclose sensitive information. As I have noted in signing last year's Intelligence Authorization Act and other similar legislation, the executive branch shall construe such provisions in a manner consistent with the President's constitutional authority to withhold information the disclosure of which could impair foreign relations, the national security, the deliberative processes of the Executive, or the performance of the Executive's constitutional duties.
The executive branch shall construe subsections 501(d) and (e), relating to the number and activities of military personnel deployed abroad, in a manner consistent with the President's constitutional authority as Commander in Chief of the Armed Forces.
GEORGE W. BUSH
The White House, November 27, 2002.
  