
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

Education requires devotion and hard work from student and teacher alike, and good teachers are inseparable from learning at any age. Education is a lifelong process that benefits individuals and entire communities and countries and helps lay the foundation of the future. We should all express our gratitude to the teachers among us who seek to offer pupils a thirst for knowledge, a solid education, and the inspiration to achieve and excel throughout life.
Teachers do an incalculable amount of good as they teach pupils how to study and learn; provide instruction in the skills of reading, writing, mathematics, languages, history, the sciences, and other disciplines; and transmit understanding of and appreciation for the many influences that have shaped our land of liberty and justice. Teachers do much good as well as they offer vocational instruction, continuing education, and education for special needs. By word and deed, teachers foster intellectual and all-around development; they must do so in conjunction with the example and guidance parents and families give their youngsters.
Our country's great teachers often make many sacrifices as they fulfill their countless responsibilities. They have earned, and truly deserve, the utmost gratitude and esteem of students, parents, and community members.
The Congress, by House Joint Resolution 438, has designated November 4, 1988, as "National Teacher Appreciation Day" and authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this day.
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim November 4, 1988, as National Teacher Appreciation Day. I call upon all Americans to observe this day with appropriate programs, ceremonies, and activities.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this fourth day of November, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-eight, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and thirteenth.

RONALD REAGAN
  