
    HOUSTON, Texas — Today, the Cruz for President campaign announced the endorsement of Alabama Congressman Mo Brooks, who is also running as a delegate in support of Cruz for the Alabama GOP primary, which will be held on March 1. Congressman Brooks will serve as chairman of the Cruz campaign's Alabama leadership team.
Last week, Heidi Cruz submitted paperwork on behalf of the Cruz for President campaign to be on the GOP primary ballot in Alabama – Ted Cruz was one of only four presidential candidates to submit a full slate of delegates.
"America needs a president with both a keen intellect and understanding of the foundational principles that have made America great and the backbone to defend and promote those foundational principles in the face of intense political pressure to do the wrong thing," Congressman Brooks said. "Ted Cruz's record proves he has the intellect, strength of character, and backbone to do what is best for America in the face of stiff political winds that seek to blow our nation off course."
In August, Congressman Brooks joined Cruz at a rally in Huntsville that drew an overflow crowd of more than 2,000 Alabamans. Since then, Cruz has announced more than 20 grassroots leaders and activists to serve on his Alabama leadership team, led by co-chairs Becky Gerritson, Chad Mathis, and Ann Eubank, and now Congressman Brooks who will serve as chairman.

"I am honored to have the support of Congressman Brooks who has been a leading conservative voice in the House of Representatives," said Cruz. "I am thrilled to have him lead our campaign efforts in Alabama and thankful for his partnership in fighting the Washington Cartel and working to restore and protect jobs, growth, and individual liberty across our nation."
Below is Congressman Brook's full statement endorsing Ted Cruz for President of the United States:
"America faces major challenges unlike any in our history. Wildly out-of-control spending, deficits and debt, foisted on America by Washington politicians who care less about America's future and more about special interest contributions and their next election, threaten America with a debilitating insolvency and bankruptcy," Said Congressman Brooks. "Moral values that have guided America to greatness are under daily attack. America's international reputation is undermined by White House hesitancy, weakness and global retreat. A free enterprise economy that has blessed America with the best standard of living on Earth is threatened by Democrats who prefer a Socialist economic model that has never worked anywhere in world history.
"America needs a president with both a keen intellect and understanding of the foundational principles that have made America great and the backbone to defend and promote those foundational principles in the face of intense political pressure to do the wrong thing. Ted Cruz's record proves he has the intellect, strength of character, and backbone to do what is best for America in the face of stiff political winds that seek to blow our nation off course.
"I wholeheartedly endorse Ted Cruz for President and encourage Americans to support Ted Cruz because he not only has what it takes to make a great President, he also has what it takes to best expose and defeat the Hillary Clinton machine in 2016."
  