
    It's easy to see why Biden's handlers kept him in his basement as much as possible.
Until the last week, Joe Biden had been noticeably absent from the campaign trail for months, only occasionally leaving his basement to recite rage-filled, barely-intelligible stump speeches from a jumbo teleprompter while avoiding questions from the press. After his campaign failed to get the early vote totals they need to assure victory, Biden is back on the trail with sparsely-attended "rallies" that have been a disastrous series of mistakes, insults, and unhealthy rage.
It's easy to see why Biden was kept hidden from the American people for so long. In just the past ten days:

Biden called himself a "grandmom."
Biden called Doug Emhoff "Kamala's wife."
Biden appeared to confuse President Trump with President George Bush.
Biden screamed "I'm sick and tired of smart guys!"
Biden insulted Americans who do not support him, calling them "chumps." Twice.
Biden called Trump supporters "ugly."
Biden coined two new words, "trunalimunumaprzure" and "badakathcare."
Biden fantasized about assaulting President Trump.
Biden inadvertently admitted his campaign has "the most extensive and inclusive voter fraud organization in the history of American politics."
Biden said he believes it's a good idea to raise taxes in the middle of an economic recovery.
Biden admitted he wants to get rid of fracking on federal land.
Biden confused journalist Chris Wallace with his father Mike, who passed away eight years ago.
Biden flip-flopped on a nationwide mask mandate—again.
Biden told his supporters he doesn't need their vote to get elected.

Joe Biden is the most inaccessible presidential candidate in modern history, routinely going weeks without facing media scrutiny and refusing to answer questions about where he stands on basic policy issues like packing the Supreme Court. If Biden can't go a single speech without a mistake, insult, or fit of rage, how on earth can he handle the relentless rigors of the presidency?
  