
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

During the past year, America's service men and women demonstrated, once again, the extraordinarily high standards of professionalism and skill that we have come to expect of the United States Armed Forces. Working together with remarkable precision and speed, they ensured the resounding success of our military operations in the Persian Gulf -- from the massive deployments of Operations Desert Shield and Desert Storm to the large-scale humanitarian relief efforts of Operation Provide Comfort and Operation Sea Angel. This month, as we salute our Persian Gulf veterans and, indeed, all those who have served in our Nation's armed forces, we also recognize the wealth of knowledge and experience that they have to offer as members of the civilian work force.
From the beginning of Operation Desert Shield, the American military showed that it is capable of planning and executing tremendously complex and sensitive operations. Our success in the Persian Gulf highlighted not only the superiority of American technology but also our troops' ability to employ these remarkable tools. Moreover, the conflict in the Gulf reminded all Americans that we can rely on our citizen-soldiers, the Reservists and National Guard members who responded so well when called upon to stand shoulder-to-shoulder with their comrades in the regular components of the active duty military forces. We also saw that the American employer is prepared to stand behind the employee who is called to active military service and to safeguard that individual's employment rights while he or she is away.
This month, as we honor our Nation's veterans, let us also recognize the value of recruiting and hiring these Americans in the workplace. Our veterans have developed special knowledge and skills through their military service, and they clearly possess the drive and the discipline that are needed to help keep American business competitive in the international arena.
The Congress, by House Joint Resolution 280, has designated the week of November 10 through November 16, 1991, as "Hire a Veteran Week" and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this week.
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush, President of the United States of America do hereby proclaim the week of November 10 through November 16, 1991, as Hire a Veteran Week. I encourage all Americans -- in particular, employers, labor leaders, and public officials -- to support the campaign to increase the employment of men and women who have served our country in the armed forces.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this twelfth day of November, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-one, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and sixteenth.

GEORGE BUSH
  