
    Hillary Kicks Off Effort By Honoring Student Activism
The Clinton campaign today announced the launch of Students for Hillary, a national effort to organize and mobilize supporters on college campuses. Supporters have already started 120 Students for Hillary chapters in 37 states and the campaign expects many more to begin in the coming weeks. The campaign also unveiled a new Web site, http://www.hillblazers.com/, which will serve as the principal organizing tool for students and other young voters. Hillary Clinton kicked off the Students for Hillary initiative at events at her alma mater, Wellesley College, and at the University of New Hampshire (UNH) and encouraged students to become active in her campaign.
"In the coming weeks, I need you to make the calls and knock on the doors and organize events," said Clinton. "That's exactly what I did back in 1968, driving from Wellesley to Manchester, New Hampshire, stuffing envelopes and walking precincts for Eugene McCarthy's Presidential campaign. And I'm so grateful that so many of you here are doing that for me today."
During her remarks at each event, Clinton honored the activism and public service of students and recent graduates. In particular, she noted that between 2000 and 2006, applications to Teach for America nearly tripled and that between 2004 and 2006, applications to the AmeriCorps VISTA program jumped 50%.
"So to those who say your generation is disengaged - that you're not as passionate and committed as we were - I say, come out to Providence and Keene and Durham and Wellesley. See how every day, young people here and across America are standing up, taking charge and making the impossible possible," said Clinton.
She also laid out an agenda to help college students and young voters realize their full potential by improving access to higher education, creating new jobs, tackling global challenges like the environment and the spread of HIV/AIDS.
"I have been a big fan of Hillary's for a long time because she understands the issues that are important to me." said Christine Snively, a UNH graduate student who is expected to introduce Hillary at an event at the Durham campus. "She has strong plans to restore the Middle Class and provide universal healthcare to every American. Hillary also recognizes the importance of making college affordable and of promoting alternative means of education for kids who don't take the college route."
  