
    MANCHESTER — Bennet for America today announced that State Representative Joyce Fulweiler (D-Merrimack) and longtime Democratic activist Dan Calegari have endorsed Michael Bennet for President of the United States.
State Rep. Fulweiler has represented Merrimack District 3 since 2016. Her lifetime of public service has included roles as Town Administrators of Northfield, Newmarket, and Tilton.
Dan Calegari has been a fixture of Granite State politics for over 30 years. He served as an advisor to Sen. John Kerry's campaign in 2004, and emerged as a key Democratic operative while serving as an integral component of then-Sen. Gary Hart's insurgent primary victory here in 1984.
"Michael Bennet is the opposite of Donald Trump — he will unify the American people and move our country forward, getting us out of the morass we have been in for the last three years and into a stronger future," said Calegari. "I worked alongside Jeanne Shaheen as a member of Gary Hart's insurgent 1984 campaign, and I know Michael has what it takes to win in tough places like New Hampshire and beat Trump. He's going to fight for the next generation and drive the kind of opportunity all Americans need. Everyone should be paying attention to Michael Bennet."
"We are so fortunate to have such a remarkable field of Democratic presidential candidates. I have decided to give my support to Colorado Senator Michael Bennet as I believe he is the best candidate to beat Donald Trump," said Fulweiler. "He's smart, experienced, and actually cares about people unlike our current president. Michael's track record of winning in tough places and his unifying agenda will be a winning combination to put us on the right path for the next generation."
Michael Bennet represents Colorado in the Senate, but he has not spent a lifetime in politics. He turned around failing businesses in the private sector and improved outcomes for kids as superintendent of the Denver Public Schools. Bennet is the only candidate in this race who has won two national elections in a swing state. He has released comprehensive, field-leading proposals to provide high-quality, affordable health care with a public option, reward hard work, fix our broken political system, and tackle climate change by working with our farmers and ranchers.
  