
    To the Congress of the United States:
On September 7, 1993, the Secretary of the Interior certified that the People's Republic of China (PRC) and Taiwan are engaging in trade of rhinoceros and tiger parts and products that diminishes the effectiveness of the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES). Five rhinoceros species and the tiger are listed in Appendix I of CITES, which means that the species are threatened with extinction and no trade for primarily commercial purposes is allowed. Although recent actions by the PRC and Taiwan show that some progress has been made in addressing their rhinoceros and tiger trade, the record demonstrates that they still fall short of the international conservation standards of CITES. This letter constitutes my report to the Congress pursuant to section 8(b) of the Fisherman's Protective Act of 1967, as amended (Pelly Amendment) (22 U.S.C. 1978(b)).
The population of the world's rhinoceros has declined 90 percent within the last 23 years to the present level of less than 10,000 animals, and the tiger population has declined 95 percent within this century to the present level of about 5,000. Neither the PRC nor Taiwan has fully implemented the international standards established by CITES for controlling the trade in these species, and the poaching of rhinoceroses and tigers continues in their native ranges fueled in part by the market demand in the PRC and Taiwan. These populations will likely be extinct in the next 2 to 5 years if the trade in their parts and products is not eliminated.
To protect the rhinoceros and tiger from extinction, all countries and entities that currently consume their parts and products must implement adequate legislative measures and provide for enforcement that effectively eliminates the trade, including taking actions to comply with the criteria set down by CITES in September 1993 and fully cooperating with all CITES delegations. The PRC and Taiwan have made good faith efforts to stop the trade in rhinoceros and tiger parts and products, and have, since the announcement of Pelly certification, undertaken some positive legislative and administrative steps in this regard. These efforts, however, have yet to yield effective reductions in trade.
I wish to support and build on these good faith efforts undertaken by the PRC and Taiwan. At the same time, I would like to make clear the U.S. position that only effective reductions in the destructive trade in these species will prevent the rhinoceros and tiger from becoming extinct. Accordingly, I have established an Interagency Task Force to coordinate the provision of U.S. technical assistance to the PRC and Taiwan to help them eliminate their illegal wildlife trade. I have also instructed the Department of the Interior, in coordination with the Department of State and the American Institute in Taiwan, to enter immediately into dialogue with the PRC and Taiwan regarding specific U.S. offers of trade and law enforcement assistance.
Actions by the PRC and Taiwan that would demonstrate their commitment to the elimination of trade in rhinoceros and tiger parts and products could include: at a minimum, consolidation and control of stockpiles; formation of a permanent wildlife or conservation law enforcement unit with specialized training; development and implementation of a comprehensive law enforcement and education action plan; increased enforcement penalties; prompt termination of amnesty periods for illegal holding and commercialization; and establishment of regional law enforcement arrangements. I would expect that in taking these actions, the PRC and Taiwan would take account of the recommendations by the CITES Standing Committee and other CITES subsidiary bodies. In that regard, I am pleased to announce that the United States will participate in a delegation to the PRC and Taiwan organized by CITES to evaluate their progress between now and the March 1994 CITES Standing Committee meeting.
At its last meeting, the CITES Standing Committee unanimously recommended that parties consider implementing "stricter domestic measures up to and including prohibition in trade in wildlife species now" against the PRC and Taiwan for their trade in rhinoceros and tiger parts and products. The United States is prepared, through close dialogue and technical aid, to assist the PRC and Taiwan. I hope that both will demonstrate measurable, verifiable, and substantial progress by March 1994. Otherwise, import prohibitions will be necessary, as recommended by the CITES Standing Committee.
WILLIAM J. CLINTON
The White House, November 8, 1993.
  