
    
Four-pronged approach focuses on regulating data use and privacy, minimizing health impacts of modern tech (especially on our children), stopping the spread of misinformation, and implementing modern antitrust and regulatory solutions.
The new, comprehensive policy highlights the government's role and responsibility to support the development of features and protections that would encourage healthy tech use among youth without stifling innovation.

NEW YORK — Presidential candidate Andrew Yang released a revolutionary tech policy that redefines how the United States would ensure the government is equipped to stay ahead of these developments and create appropriate regulations.
While other candidates are calling to break up big tech companies, that doesn't necessarily fix the underlying problems these companies are creating. No one would use the fourth-best search engine, and network effects will naturally lead to market consolidation in certain areas. And, if anything, the negative impact of social media will only be increased as companies compete for our attention, and the attention of our children.
The policy instead addresses the dire problems faced by Americans, including high levels of anxiety, depression, and stress. Citizens are also subject to the dissemination of false information on social media and invasions of their privacy by these companies.
"As the parent of two young children, I'm deeply concerned about technology and how it affects our kids. We're developing technology rapidly and we need to work together to get ahead when it comes to analyzing how it impacts our everyday lives and creating appropriate regulations," Andrew Yang said.
Healthy Use of Technology
The U.S. government will support and promote healthy use of technology by working with major tech companies to ensure platforms and products are helping — not hurting — young users. One major highlight is Yang's proposal to create a Department of the Attention Economy, which provide guidelines to companies on how to responsibly design products, such as smartphones, social media, and gaming apps.
Data Use and Privacy
Citizens should be protected and be regarded as the owners of their personal data. Tech companies are not giving Americans their fair share of profits gleaned from the use of their personal information. To ensure Americans are compensated for the use of their data, Andrew will pass a Digital Bill of Rights, ensuring ownership of data, control of how it's used, and compensation for its use.
Stopping the Spread of Disinformation
As false information continues to pervade our social channels, it will be crucial for the government to play an active role in halting the spread of misinformation. To tackle this problem, Yang will hold companies accountable for allowing bots to spread disinformation, create incentives for businesses to move to a subscription model instead of being ad-based, and require large, clear labeling on ad purchases and on how data is being used to target each individual.
21st Century Framework
Yang will build a 21st century framework to better facilitate a modern approach to regulation. Yang will revive the Office of Technology Assessment, establish a Department of Technology, and establish new antitrust guidelines.
Yang, a former tech executive and non-profit leader who has received recognition and support from big names in tech, including Elon Musk, Alex Ohanian, Sam Altman, and Jack Dorsey, has established that his campaign is the only one addressing our nation's needs as we experience the Fourth Industrial Revolution.
  