
    
  Dozens Of Editorial Boards That Endorsed Barack Obama In 2008 Have Endorsed Mitt Romney In 2012

Des Moines Register (IA): "Mitt Romney Offers A Fresh Economic Vision." "The president's best efforts to resuscitate the stumbling economy have fallen short. Nothing indicates it would change with a second term in the White House. ... A renewed sense of confidence will spark renewed investment by American companies. Industry will return to full production and hiring will begin again. That should come with Mitt Romney in the White House." (Editorial, "Mitt Romney Offers A Fresh Economic Vision," Des Moines Register, 10/27/12)
Quad-City Times (IA): "We Endorse A Successful Leader Focused On Economic Recovery And Growth And Deficit Reduction." "Today, we endorse a successful leader focused on economic recovery and growth and deficit reduction. We endorse a proven manager who won't need on-the-job training. We endorse a compromiser who offers the best hope of breaking congressional gridlock. Most of all, we endorse change. We endorse Mitt Romney for president." (Editorial, "Ready For Change," Quad-City Times, 10/28/12)
The Nashua Telegraph (NH): "Romney Is The Candidate Who Would Tackle The Serious Issues Facing This Nation..." "Nevertheless, we are confident Romney is the candidate who would tackle the serious issues facing this nation, starting with jobs, the economy and the debt. In the end, we couldn't say the same about the president." (Editorial, "Mitt Romney For President," The Nashua Telegraph, 10/31/12)
Wisconsin State Journal: "We Endorsed Obama For Change Last Time Around. Now We're Endorsing Change Again: Mitt Romney." "Not enough hope and too little change. That is President Barack Obama's record on the economy, debt and Washington gridlock after four years in the White House. ... We endorsed Obama for change last time around. Now we're endorsing change again: Mitt Romney." (Editorial, "Our Pick: Mitt Romney," Wisconsin State Journal, 11/4/12)
Florida Today: "Romney Has A Clearer Vision For A Modern Economy..." "Over the next four years, Washington must foster a more competitive economy and balance federal budgets. Florida voters rate jobs and business growth as their No. 1 concern by far. For those reasons, we endorse former Massachusetts Gov. Mitt Romney for president. Romney has a clearer vision for a modern economy. He has a better understanding than President Barack Obama of what could help manufacturers and service companies grow and hire. And he has executive experience and a record of problem solving that Obama did not have before taking office." (Editorial, "We Recommend Mitt Romney For President," Florida Today, 10/28/12)
Pensacola News Journal (FL): "We Believe [Mitt Romney] Has The Experience And Temperament To Start The Repairs." "As he did in 2008, Mitt Romney is campaigning that ‘Washington is broken': that Congress and the president can neither legislate nor lead effectively. We believe he has the experience and temperament to start the repairs. If elected, we urge him to gather key Democrats on Nov. 7 and start to find solutions to our problems." (Editorial, "We Recommend: Mitt Romney For President," Pensacola News Journal, 10/28/12)
Naples Daily News (FL): "We Believe It Will Take Another Administration Change, To Romney, To Bring The Leadership That Will Make That Recovery Timely, Robust And Sustainable." "This time four years ago, this newspaper's editorial board sized up the state of the economy and other issues and concluded the country needed a change, to Obama. While we believe the national economy is on the way back, we believe it will take another administration change, to Romney, to bring the leadership that will make that recovery timely, robust and sustainable." (Editorial, "President Of The United States," Naples Daily News, 10/28/12)
Orlando Sentinel (FL): Mitt Romney "Understands That Reviving The Economy And Repairing The Government's Balance Sheet Are Imperative." "[T]he core of Romney's campaign platform, his five-point plan, at least shows he understands that reviving the economy and repairing the government's balance sheet are imperative — now, not four years in the future. ... We endorse Mitt Romney for president." (Editorial, "Our Pick For President: Romney," Orlando Sentinel, 10/19/12)
Sun-Sentinel (FL): "We Need A Leader Who Will Chart A Clear Course, Sweat The Details And Get The Job Done Right." "In these uncertain times, we need a leader who will chart a clear course, sweat the details and get the job done right. We believe Romney's past performance is a predictor of his future behavior. He's proven himself to be a successful businessman. He rescued the 2002 Winter Olympics from scandal and mismanagement. He worked with a Democrat-dominated legislature as governor of Massachusetts to close a $3 billion budget deficit — without borrowing and raising taxes." (Editorial, "Sun Sentinel Endorses Mitt Romney For President," Sun Sentinel, 10/26/12)
Bucks County Courier Times (PA): "Romney Will Spur Confidence To Boost The Economy." "In contrast, Republican presidential nominee Mitt Romney has a record of bipartisan success. ... Likewise, Romney's success in private business and the plan he has put forward to turn the economy around, most members of our editorial board agree, could spur the confidence that's needed to get business and industry to invest and expand." (Editorial, "Romney Will Spur Confidence To Boost The Economy," Bucks County Courier Times, 10/28/12)
Herald Standard (PA): "It's Time To Let Someone Else Run The Country For The Next Four Years And Take Their Turn At Getting The Economy Moving Again. And That Someone Is Definitely Romney." (Editorial, "Romney, Obama Race A Cliffhanger," Herald Standard, 11/4/12)
Reno Gazette-Journal (NV): "We Find Ourselves In Need Of Change Yet Again. Romney Must Be The Leader To Get Things Moving." "Based on our current fiscal condition, a still-weak economy and a Congress deeply divided along party lines, our next president will continue to face a daunting challenge, one that must be met for the good of the country. Four years later, we find ourselves in need of change yet again. Romney must be the leader to get things moving." (Editorial, "Nevada Needs A Change Now; Elect Mitt Romney President," Reno Gazette-Journal, 10/20/12)
The Daily Tribune (MI): "Mitt Romney Certainly Appears To Be The Leader America Needs At This Particular Time In History." "Job creation will reduce the number of Americans on welfare, food stamps and unemployment, meanwhile producing revenue for the government to use to reduce deficits and debt. Mitt Romney certainly appears to be the leader America needs at this particular time in history." (Editorial, "Romney The Leader America Needs To Create More Jobs," The Daily Tribune, 10/12/12)
The Daily Reflector (NC): "The Present Path Is Untenable And Romney Offers The New Direction America Needs." "This is no easy decision for voters and the public's hope for Obama's success makes turning away difficult. However, the present path is untenable and Romney offers the new direction America needs."(Editorial, "Romney Offers New Direction," The Daily Reflector, 11/1/12)
The Daily Herald (IL): "We Endorse Romney Because He, Unlike Obama, Understands That Jobs Are A Creation Of Business, Not Of Government." "But ultimately, we endorse Romney because he, unlike Obama, understands that jobs are a creation of business, not of government. And that to encourage job growth, we need policies that incent business to grow and provide it with a stable environment for that growth." (Editorial, "Endorsement: The Case For Mitt Romney For President," The Daily Herald, 10/28/12)
Peoria Journal Star (IL): "A Course Correction Is Required. Mitt Romney Gets The Journal Star's Endorsement For President Of The United States." "In some ways Obama seems to have lost his zip, his party bereft of ideas. The relationship between Congress and the White House has utterly broken down. There's blame to share on that score, but Romney does have a record of working in bipartisan fashion; he had to as governor with an overwhelmingly Democratic legislature. ... Sometimes, a course correction is required. Mitt Romney gets the Journal Star's endorsement for president of the United States." (Editorial, "President Of The United States: Mitt Romney," Peoria Journal Star, 11/3/12)
The Tennessean: "Barack Obama Was Elected In 2008 With A Call For Hope And Change. Perhaps The Change He Spoke Of Could Only Come With The Help Of Mitt Romney." (Editorial, "Time For Another Change," The Tennessean, 10/17/12)
Fort Worth Star-Telegram (TX): "Romney Is An Agent Of Change Whose Primary Campaign Thrust Has Been The Economy And His Plans And Qualifications To Improve It. ... He Is Highly Qualified..." "Absent change at the White House, the economy will be left to its own devices, most likely a continued but very slow recovery. But slow isn't what the country needs. Romney is an agent of change whose primary campaign thrust has been the economy and his plans and qualifications to improve it. On this front, he is highly qualified, both by business experience and public service."(Editorial, "Mitt Romney: New Leadership For More Economic Growth," Fort Worth Star-Telegram, 10/21/12)
Houston Chronicle (TX): "A Lot Needs Fixing In America ... Mitt Romney Offers The Leadership We Require From The White House." "Gov. Romney impresses us as a focused, task-oriented problem solver, both by inclination and by experience - a ‘fix-it' guy. A lot needs fixing in America, from a broken economy to a broken-down political system. Mitt Romney offers the leadership we require from the White House." (Editorial, "Romney For President," Houston Chronicle, 10/21/12)
San Angelo Standard-Times (TX): "Romney Best Able To Lead America's Economic Recovery" "The unemployment rate is where it was when he took office. The economic recovery is weak, and more people are in worse circumstances than when he entered the White House. Nor has Obama offered a compelling vision for how those things will improve in the next four years. Mitt Romney appears better able to reinvigorate the economy, and the Standard-Times editorial board recommends his election as president." (Editorial, "Romney Best Able To Lead America's Economic Recovery," San Angelo Standard-Times, 10/27/12)
New York Daily News: "Romney's Approach Is The Stronger. Critically, He Has Tailored His Policies To Create Jobs, Jobs, Jobs." "Four years ago, the Daily News endorsed Obama, seeing a historic figure whose intelligence, political skills and empathy with common folk positioned him to build on the small practical experience he would bring to the world's toughest job. We valued Obama's pledge to govern with bold pragmatism and bipartisanship. The hopes of those days went unfulfilled. ... Romney's approach is the stronger. Critically, he has tailored his policies to create jobs, jobs, jobs." (Editorial, "Our Choice For America's Future," New York Daily News, 11/4/12)
New York Observer: Mitt Romney "Promises To Bring A New And Refreshing Attitude To Washington..." "Mitt Romney stands out because—unlike so many candidates in the past—he understands how to build businesses, create efficiencies, make tough deals and carefully consider divergent viewpoints. America needs a strong leader, a practical leader. ... Mr. Romney, on the other hand, promises to bring a new and refreshing attitude to Washington, one that speaks to his experience as both a successful business leader and the governor of a state not known for its affection for Republicans." (Editorial, "Romney For President," New York Observer, 10/16/12)
Newsday (NY): "Romney's Potential To Put America Back To Work Earns Him Our Endorsement." "Had Barack Obama done the job of president with the same passion and vision he displayed in seeking it, he would likely deserve another term. He did not. ... Romney's potential to put America back to work earns him our endorsement. Obama's failure to accelerate the improvement of the economy is the dominant reason Romney is the right choice, but it's not the only one. There are also the broken promises." (Editorial, "Elect Mitt Romney President Of The United States," Newsday, 11/3/12)
Long Beach Press-Telegram (CA): Mitt Romney "Is The Leader This Country Needs For The Future." "Four years ago, as America faced serious trouble at home and abroad, this news organization embraced the need for bold change to a different brand of leadership and endorsed Barack Obama for president. ... This is why the editorial board urges voters to choose Mitt Romney for president in the Nov. 6 election. He is the leader this country needs for the future." (Editorial, "Mitt Romney For President," Long Beach Press-Telegram, 10/26/12)
The Reporter (CA): Mitt Romney "Has The Negotiation Skills To Bring The Parties To The Table And Hammer Out Agreements That Will Right This Ship Of State And Get Her Sailing Again." "But, try as he might, [Barack Obama] has not been able to enact policies that might significantly grow jobs and restore the nation's economy. ... Mr. Romney, however, has the negotiation skills to bring the parties to the table and hammer out agreements that will right this ship of state and get her sailing again." (Editorial, "Mitt Romney For President," The Reporter, 10/28/12)
The Columbian (WA): Mitt Romney "Better Understands How An Economic Recovery Is Powered By An Incentivized Private Sector, Not A Bloated Bureaucracy." "But President Obama also must be held accountable, and even he acknowledges too little has been done to repair the economy, reduce the deficit and cut the federal debt. ... [Mitt Romney] better understands how an economic recovery is powered by an incentivized private sector, not a bloated bureaucracy." (Editorial, "President Of The United States: Mitt Romney," The Columbian, 10/14/12)
The Billings Gazette (MT): "Romney Offers New Leadership America Needs." "Romney spotlighted Obama's failure to consistently show any kind of strong leadership. Obama has failed to lead America forward from the stagnation that followed the great recession. On the other hand, Romney's leadership credentials date back to his successful work on the 2002 Salt Lake City winter Olympics and his tenure as governor of Massachusetts. ... American has just survived the worst recession since the Great Depression. But government policies must change for our great nation to thrive again. To meet the expectations of its people for continued economic growth, America needs a new CEO — Mitt Romney." (Editorial, "Romney Offers New Leadership America Needs," The Billings Gazette, 10/10/12)
Casper Star-Tribune (WY): "While Obama Talks About Getting Things Accomplished, Mitt Romney's Track Record As A Business Leader, Leader Of The Olympic Games And Governor Is A Proven Legacy Of Success..." "For all these reasons, we are endorsing Republican Mitt Romney for president. Sure, it may be easy to be persuaded by Obama's rhetorical polish. While Obama talks about getting things accomplished, Mitt Romney's track record as a business leader, leader of the Olympic Games and governor is a proven legacy of success in multiple leadership roles. Actions speak louder than pretty words." (Editorial, "After Four Years Of Failure, It's Time For A Change," Casper Star-Tribune, 10/14/12)
Bluefield Daily Telegraph (WV): Mitt Romney "Is Our Best Chance To Get America's Still Struggling Economy Back On Track, And To Help Those Millions Of Americans Who Are Still Unemployed..." "Romney is a job creator. He always has been. If elected on Nov. 6, he is our best chance to get America's still struggling economy back on track, and to help those millions of Americans who are still unemployed get back into the work force. Mitt Romney will not close coal mines and coal-fired power plants. He will fight for coal. He will fight for natural gas. He will stand up for America. He is our best hope for a more prosperous future." (Editorial, "President Of The United States, Republican Mitt Romney," Bluefield Daily Telegraph, 10/23/12)
Fitchburg Sentinel & Enterprise (MA): "It's Romney's Time To Bring Us Together ... The Sentinel & Enterprise Believes In Mitt Romney And His Vision For America's Future." "It's Romney's time to bring us together in a single purpose that embraces fairness, self-reliance, responsibility, rugged individualism, entrepreneurial spirit and unlimited success. Mitt Romney wants us to believe in America again. It begins with us believing in ourselves and each other. ... The Sentinel & Enterprise believes in Mitt Romney and his vision for America's future." (Editorial, "Romney For President," Fitchburg Sentinel & Enterprise, 10/21/12)
Worcester Telegram & Gazette (MA): "It Is Time Once Again For Change In Washington, And We Strongly Believe That Mitt Romney Offers The Right Combination Of Experience, Vision, Leadership And Moral Grounding..." "The decision to turn an incumbent president out of office is never one to be undertaken lightly by voters. But good intentions, repeated promises and lofty rhetoric are no substitute for sound economics and a foreign policy grounded in realism and strength. It is time once again for change in Washington, and we strongly believe that Mitt Romney offers the right combination of experience, vision, leadership and moral grounding to reinvigorate the nation's economy, bring a measure of control to the ocean of debt threatening to engulf us, and lay out a foreign policy that has the clarity and force needed to deter aggression while promoting international stability." (Editorial, "Romney For President," Worcester Telegram & Gazette, 10/28/12)
Cape Cod Times (MA): "The Time Is Right For Someone With His Broad Skill Set. We Recommend Romney For President." "Overall, what we've seen of Romney over many years — from business success to running a state to impeccable personal attributes — convinces us that the time is right for someone with his broad skill set. We recommend Romney for president." (Editorial, "Romney For President," Cape Cod Times, 10/28/12)
Journal And Courier (IN): "We Just Don't Believe [Barack Obama Has] Earned Another Four Years." "That said, we've watched Obama in the job. It's become increasingly clear that, while he can dish out blame for recalcitrant factions on the other side of the aisle, he either doesn't have the clout or the willingness to work the halls to recruit allies in Congress. ... We just don't believe he's earned another four years." (Editorial, "For President — Mitt Romney," Journal And Courier, 10/26/12)
The Star Press (IN): "Change Is What's Needed To Jump Start The American Economy. That Change Is More Likely To Happen Under Former Massachusetts Gov. Mitt Romney." "President Barack Obama rode a wave of support into the White House on a promise of hope and change. Four years later, little has changed and hope is not much more than an afterthought. ... To use Obama's former catchphrase, change is what's needed to jump start the American economy. That change is more likely to happen under former Massachusetts Gov. Mitt Romney." (Editorial, "Change Of Leadership Needed For Our Nation," The Star Press, 11/4/12)
The Joplin Globe (MO): "Systemic, Long-Term Change Is Needed In Washington ... Mitt Romney Should Be The Next President." "Systemic, long-term change is needed in Washington, but after four years with President Barack Obama setting the nation's course, that change has not come. ... Mitt Romney should be the next president." (Editorial, "Mitt Romney For President," The Joplin Globe, 10/27/12)
Shreveport Times (LA): "We Feel Change Is Needed Again. And We Believe Romney Fills That Ticket." "It is true that in 2008 we endorsed the change promised by Obama, but the reality today is — four years later — we have little confidence Obama will be more successful managing the economy and the budget going forward. Indeed, we feel change is needed again. And we believe Romney fills that ticket." (Editorial, "Mitt Romney: Our Choice For President," Shreveport Times, 10/26/12)
The Norwich Bulletin (CT): "Romney's Experience Is Exactly What Our Country Needs Today." "We believe electing Romney will send a jolt of excitement throughout the business world that will lead to greater job creation, conversion of dollars currently held by corporations into productive investments and an America where success is rewarded. We believe this would be a good thing. ... But it's time for a change, and we urge readers to seriously consider voting for the Romney/Ryan ticket." (Editorial, "Romney's Experience Is Exactly What Our Country Needs Today," The Norwich Bulletin, 11/3/12)
Statesman Journal (OR): "Romney's Leadership Will Inspire Businesses To Re-Invest In Workers And Products, Re-Building The Economy." "Ryan is bright and thoughtful, and his congressional experience complements Romney's background in the private sector and state government. That business skill cannot be overstated. Romney's leadership will inspire businesses to re-invest in workers and products, re-building the economy." (Editorial, "Our Presidential Endorsement: Mitt Romney," Statesman Journal, 10/31/12)
The Herald-Dispatch (WV): "Romney In Both His Rhetoric And His Past Achievements Promises A More Pro-Business Approach." "Romney in both his rhetoric and his past achievements promises a more pro-business approach. If there were ever a time for an ‘all in' energy policy, it is now. If there were ever a time to take the pressure off small business, it is now. The former governor and businessman also has demonstrated a willingness and ability to build bi-partisan coalitions, something Washington so greatly needs. That is going to be critical in addressing long-term financial challenges such as the federal deficit, Social Security and Medicare." (Editorial, "Romney Looks Better Suited For Job At Hand," The Herald-Dispatch, 10/21/12)
  