
    Castro's latest Nevada support follows Monday endorsements from DNC member, state lawmakers
SAN ANTONIO, TX (November 18, 2019) – Six more Nevadans including Latino business leaders, a UNLV student leader and the former state director for another candidate endorsed Julián Castro on Monday while he is in the state for his 12th trip since announcing his run for president.
The endorsements come after 14 endorsements earlier Monday from leaders including a third Democratic National Committee member and six current or former state lawmakers from Texas, Arizona, New Mexico and Missouri, nine new Texas endorsements earlier this month from high-profile elected Democrats including top legislative leaders, and 12 new endorsements in Iowa in the last two weeks. 
Those Nevada leaders endorsing Secretary Castro on Monday include:David Bagley, Former Nevada State Director for Marianne WilliamsonChar Frost, Mental Health AdvocatePerla Herrera, President of the National Association for Hispanic Real Estate Professionals of Greater Las VegasAaron Ibarra, Student Senator for University of Nevada, Las Vegas College of Liberal ArtsDennisse Anaya, Events Coordinator for the National Association for Hispanic Real Estate Professionals of Greater Las VegasWendy Stolyarov, Community Activist and Emerge Nevada 2020 Member
Here's what some of Secretary Castro's new endorsers had to say:
David Bagley, Former Nevada State Director for Marianne Williamson:"I support Secretary Castro for President. His People First policies are comprehensive, and focus on addressing the root causes of systemic issues other candidates are overlooking. Additionally, he has proven himself, in office and on the campaign trail, to be willing to stand alone and champion issues, whether it is transgender rights, decriminalizing border crossings, or police reform. Secretary Castro is the bold, progressive candidate we need to take on Trump."
Char Frost, Mental Health Advocate:"I support Secretary Castro in Nevada's upcoming caucus because his experience serving as Secretary of Housing and Urban development will be critical for Nevada as we go through another period of growth and shortages of affordable housing. It is also incredibly important to me that Secretary Castro has a plan to address immigration in a way that protects our border while providing dignity to those who are already here and those seeking asylum. I appreciate that he has the strength to examine an issue, dialogue with stakeholders, develop a plan and see that plan through."
Aaron Ibarra, Student Senator for University of Nevada, Las Vegas College of Liberal Arts:"I will be caucusing for Julián Castro in February. He understands the needs of our communities and isn't scared to lead and speak up on issues that others stay quiet on. He does his homework and creates bold policy proposals that are centered on issues directly affecting real people. This includes proposals that would have prevented my family from being separated when I was 8 years old, proposals that will reduce police violence and save lives, proposals that will ensure all students receive a quality education starting at pre-k, proposals that put people first. Secretary Castro is intelligent, honest, experienced, and is ready to lead our country in a post Trump world. That's why I'm proud to stand by him during this election."
Wendy Stolyarov, Community Activist and Emerge Nevada 2020 Member:"We need a candidate that embodies the values Trump has rejected:compassion, dignity and justice. Secretary Castro has the experience and the moral courage to center issues and uplift voices that normally go unheard. I am proud to endorse and caucus for Secretary Castro."
Several top Nevada leaders previously endorsed Secretary Castro including Assemblyman Edgar Flores, chair of the Hispanic Caucus, DNC automatic delegate and Secretary of the DNC's Black Caucus Allison Stephens, and West Wendover Mayor Daniel Corona.
  