
    
  Foreign Policy Experience Another Significant Difference Between Santorum and the Field

Verona, PA - Former Pennsylvania Senator Rick Santorum (R-PA) continues to be a national leader in standing tall against the radical theocracy of Iran. This past weekend, Senator Santorum devoted a large portion of his speech to the Republican Party of Iowa's Reagan Dinner to the need to address the looming threat of a nuclear Iran.
Reagan Dinner Speaker Rick Santorum Has Strong Words On Iran
Oskaloosa News
http://oskynews.org/?p=34306
"Santorum also spoke on the Iran Nuclear Situation. "Something very big is going to happen next week. It could fundamentally change this world and that's the report by the International Atomic Energy Agency about what Iran's nuclear situation is. I spent 10 years focused like a laser beam when I was in the Senate on the country of Iran. I introduce the biggest restriction and sanctions on the Iranian nuclear program 8 years ago. It was unanimously opposed even by President Bush, I got no co-sponsors. Within 2 years after people saw what Iran was doing in Iraq and Afghanistan and they saw their nuclear program was being regenerated, it passed unanimously and was signed by the President."
Santorum continued. "I have been traveling around this country talking about the threat that Iran is to the future of our country and to the stability of the middle-east and of course to the nation of Israel. If Iran is in fact found to be close, the world as you know it will have changed and we will have to do something. We will have to do something to stop that production because an Iranian state that is fixated on the return of the 12th Imam and dominating the Islamic world cannot under any circumstances have a nuclear weapon."
Senator Santorum is not new to addressing a nuclear Iran. During his tenure in the United States Senate, Senator Santorum:

Spent 8 years on the Senate Armed Services Committee, where he worked to transform America's military from a Cold War force to one prepared to deal with the terrorist threats of today and tomorrow.
Author of the "Syria Accountability Act" and the "Iran Freedom and Support Act" that imposed stiff sanctions on those rogue regimes and authorized funding for the pro-democracy movement in Iran.

  