
    Pool Reports by Brett Samuels, The Hill 



Sent:
Reports:




November 11, 202210:37

VP in-town pool report #1: Rolling to Arlington
Good morning from rainy Washington, D.C. I'll be pooling Vice President Harris' trip to Arlington National Cemetery this morning for a wreath laying and remarks in observance of Veterans Day. The first lady and second gentleman will also be in attendance.
The motorcade pulled out of the White House at 10:36 a.m., just as the rain began falling harder.



November 11, 202210:55

VP in-town pool report #2: Arlington arrival
Motorcade arrived at Arlington National Cemetery at 10:44. Pool unloaded and made its way on foot to the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier, arriving at 10:51 AM. Dozens of guests are assembled to observe the wreath laying. It is raining very hard.
The VP's remarks will be live-streamed here for those interested in watching: https://youtu.be/ZopSGD8slBY



November 11, 202211:08

VP in-town pool report #3: Wreath laying
FLOTUS and SGOTUS arrived at 10:58 as the rain let up slightly. VP Harris arrived at 11 a.m. along with VA Secretary McDonough. The military band here proceeded to play the Star-Spangled Banner.
The VP then laid a wreath at the site of the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier, pausing for a moment to reflect before stepping back. Taps was played, and the VP, First Lady and second gentleman all bowed their heads.
Pool is now moving to site of remarks. The rain has let up considerably.



November 11, 202211:52

VP in-town pool report #4: Remarks begin
Vice President Harris is now delivering remarks at an amphitheater adjacent to the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier following a procession of the colors, an invocation and an introduction by VA Secretary Denis McDonough. (See below for full list of speakers.) She stepped to the podium at 11:50 under a light drizzle.
Remarks are being live-streamed on the White House website so I won't send full quotes.
Your pooler estimates a few hundred people are in the amphitheater. Other officials in attendance include the First Lady, the second gentleman, Defense Sec. Lloyd Austin, Gen. Mark Milley, Labor Sec. Marty Walsh and Transportation Sec. Pete Buttigieg.
From the White House:
Speakers:
- Chaplain Kimberly Willis, Executive Director, U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs, Chaplain Service- Jack McManus, National President, Vietnam Veterans of America- Selina Meiners, Master of Ceremonies, U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs- Karen Durham-Aguilera, Executive Director, Army National Military Cemeteries & Arlington National Cemetery- Secretary Denis McDonough, U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs- Vice President Kamala Harris
Also on the Dais:
- Major General Allan M. Pepin, Commander, Military District of Washington, DC- Captain Kenneth Collins, Commander Officer & Leader, United States Navy Band and Sea Chanters



November 11, 202212:05

VP in-town pool report #5: Remarks end
The Vice President spoke for roughly 15 minutes, concluding her remarks at 12:04 p.m. Pool is on the move now, some details below.
Harris expressed gratitude for the courage, sacrifice and selflessness of veterans and those still serving. She also highlighted the work the Biden administration has done to provide economic opportunities for veterans, address veterans homelessness and highlighted passage of legislation to help vets exposed to toxic burn pits.
She also praised Jill Biden for her work with veterans' families and caregivers.
"I have seen first hand how Americas armed forces protect the highest ideals of our nation around the world," Harris said, noting her trips to the DMZ and NATO's eastern flank, among others.
"To be a veteran is to have truly known the true cost of freedom, and to have borne it for all of us. That is a debt that must always be remembered."



November 11, 202212:18

VP in-town pool report #6: that's a wrap
Pool van is heading back to the White House as of 12:15. We'll be splitting off from the VP motorcade, which is headed back to the Naval Observatory.
That's a lid on today's events for the VP, thanks for following along.



November 11, 202212:51

VP in-town pool report #7: Correction
Correction to the previous pool report- VP Harris actually returned to the White House campus after the event, she did not split off for the observatory.




  