
    Today, Lindsey Graham 2016 released its first television ad, entitled "Make it Count," as well as a series of radio ads, featuring two-time New Hampshire Presidential Primary winner, Senator John McCain.
In each of the ads, Senator McCain highlights his respect for the first-in-the-nation presidential primary and appreciation for the role the people of New Hampshire play in choosing our nominee while highlighting Lindsey's experience and knowledge that makes him a candidate worth considering.
To learn more about the foreign policy plan to defeat ISIL, as Senator McCain references, please click here.
"Make it Count" will air statewide on New Hampshire television. The radio ads, "Guts" and "Consider" will air throughout New England. Listen to "Consider" here and "Guts" here.
Click here to watch "Make it Count":

 
TV Ad, "Make It Count" Script:30 Seconds
John McCain:Text On Screen: Senator John McCain
People of New Hampshire have always been very good to me and you've always appreciated straight talk.
There's one candidate in this race I'd like you to consider: Lindsey Graham
Text On Screen: www.LindseyGraham.comJohn McCain:
Lindsey is the only candidate with a comprehensive plan to defeat ISIS and the only one prepared to be a Commander-in-Chief that is worthy of the sacrifices of our men and women in uniform.
New Hampshire, you've got a big role in choosing our next president, make it count.
Voiceover: I'm Lindsey Graham and I approve this message.
 
Radio Ad, "Consider" Script:60 Seconds
John McCain:
The people of New Hampshire have always been very good to me and I, as much as anyone, appreciate that you take your election seriously.
I'm John McCain.
Our country is facing real challenges: our economy is weak, our foreign policy is in shambles, and the threat of a terror attack has never been greater.
One person in the race for president is prepared for these challenges. That's my friend Lindsey Graham.
I've served with Lindsey, I've seen him under pressure, and I trust him to lead this country and keep us safe.
He served 30 years in the military. He's been with our troops in the Middle East 35 times. He knows ISIS, and what they're capable of, and he's the only candidate with a comprehensive plan to defeat them.
There are a lot of candidates but he's the only one with the knowledge and experience we need.
I'm John McCain, I hope you'll consider Lindsey Graham. He's the right leader for the world we live in today.
Lindsey Graham:
I'm Lindsey Graham, candidate for President, and I approve this message.
 
Radio Ad, "Guts" Script:60 Seconds
John McCain:
This is John McCain. The people of New Hampshire have been very good to me. You've always respected straight talk and serious candidates.
Our country is facing real challenges: our economy is weak, our military has been depleted, and the threat of a terror attack has never been greater.
Only one candidate for president has the experience to solve these problems: Lindsey Graham.
Lindsey grew up in a working class family, was the first in his family to go to college, and by 22 he lost both his parents and took on the responsibility of raising his 13 year-old sister, Darline.
He worked his way through law school, served 30 years in the military, and throughout his career earned a reputation as a man who speaks the truth and keeps his word.
At a time when sound bites dominate the news, Lindsey Graham is a man of substance.
Look — we're all sick of Obama's failed policies; let's pick a leader with the guts and experience to fix it.
Lindsey Graham:
I'm Lindsey Graham, candidate for President, and I approve this message.
  