
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
November 22
In the morning, the President had a telephone conversation from the Oval Office with President Boris Yeltsin of Russia concerning the situation in Iraq. Later, he traveled to Denver, CO. On arrival, the President met with 97-year-old Daisy Anderson, the last surviving widow of a Civil War veteran.
In the afternoon, the President traveled to Seattle, WA, and in the evening he traveled to Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada.
November 23
In the morning, the President played golf with Prime Minister Jean Chretien of Canada and Prime Minister Goh Chok Tong of Singapore at the Shaughnessy Golf Course in Vancouver.
November 24
In the morning, at the Waterfront Centre Hotel, the President hosted a breakfast with leaders of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations and later met with President Soeharto of Indonesia.
In the afternoon, at the Vancouver Trade and Convention Center, the President attended an APEC leaders' agenda briefing and a dialog with APEC Business Advisory Council representatives. The President also met with President Kim Yong-sam of South Korea.
In the evening, the President attended a dinner for APEC leaders hosted by Prime Minister Jean Chretien of Canada at British Columbia Place.
November 25
In the morning, the President attended the APEC leaders' meeting in the Museum of Anthropology at the University of British Columbia. In the afternoon, he joined APEC leaders for a luncheon in the Norman MacKenzie House at the university. Later, the President returned to the Museum of Anthropology, where he attended the afternoon session of the leaders' meeting and then met with President Eduardo Frei of Chile.
In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC, arriving after midnight.
November 26
In the afternoon, the President and Hillary Clinton went to Camp David, MD, for the Thanksgiving holiday.
The President announced his intention to appoint Ian Francis Hancock as a member of the U.S. Holocaust Memorial Council.
The President announced his intention to nominate Ryan C. Crocker to be Ambassador to Syria.
The President announced his intention to nominate William Lacy Swing to be Ambassador to the Congo.
The White House announced that Presidents Lennart Meri of Estonia, Guntis Ulmanis of Latvia, and Algirdas Brazauskas of Lithuania will visit the White House on January 16, 1998.
November 27
In the evening, the President had a telephone conversation with the crewmembers of the Space Shuttle Columbia to wish them a happy Thanksgiving.
  