
    
  We're building momentum and need your help to keep it going.

Gov. Huntsman knocked it out of the park at last night's CNN foreign policy debate, distinguishing himself as the only candidate we can trust to lead on day one.
After giving Mitt Romney his first foreign policy lesson on China two weeks ago, Gov. Huntsman followed it up with a second lesson last night, reminding him that the American people elect a Commander-in-Chief to lead the military, not the other way around.
But don't take my word for it; read some of the post-debate reaction and analysis:


    MSNBC's Joe Scarborough: "On foreign policy, Huntsman has no peer in this Republican field. That was obvious tonight."
  

    Former RNC Chairman Michael Steele: "Romney's ‘commanders on the ground' slammed up against Huntsman ‘Commander in Chief' makes the decision and got rocked."
  

    The New York Times' Nate Silver's final debate grade for Gov. Huntsman: "A-"
  

    Politico's Jonathan Martin on Huntsman's final debate answer: "One of best Huntsman answers of year."
  

    Huffington Post's Jon Ward: "Good rebuttal by Huntsman to Romney on Afghanistan. One of JH's strongest moments this campaign."
  

    Boston Globe's Glen Johnson: "Jon Huntsman Excels in Foreign Policy Debate"
  

That's just a sampling.  We have also experienced a spike in website traffic and online donations.  We're building momentum and need your help to keep it going.
First, please share this email with your friends, family and co-workers on facebook and twitter.  Encourage them to learn more about Gov. Huntsman by spending five minutes on our campaign website.  When voters see and hear Gov. Huntsman, they want to support him.
Then if you have not donated yet, or can afford to do so again, please make a donation of $25, $50, $100 or the maximum amount of $2,500 online within the next 24 hours.  Help us elect the candidate the New York Times says has the best chance of defeating Barack Obama:  Governor Jon Huntsman.
Proud to stand with Jon Huntsman,
Matt David
Campaign Manager
  