
    Will Serve as National Co-chair of Hillblazers for Hillary
MANCHESTER, NH - New Hampshire Young Democrats President Gray Chynoweth joined President Bill Clinton on stage at the National Young Democrats Convention tonight to announce his endorsement of Hillary Clinton. He will resign from his position effective Monday and serve as a National Co-Chair of Hillblazers for Hillary.
"I have come to believe that there is only one candidate, only one, that has the experience and the tenacity to make a difference in the lives of all Americans and who has what it takes to take on the Republicans and take back the White House. That candidate is Hillary Clinton," said Chynoweth.
Hillary has demonstrated her commitment to the issues that matter most to America's youth. She believes they have the right to breathe clean air, drink clean water, pursue a higher education, purchase a home, enjoy a fulfilling career, afford childcare, and live in a country that holds the same stature in the world as America did when she was growing up. Recently, she introduced plans to expand the Family and Medical Leave Act and make college affordable.
"Today's young people are tomorrow's leaders and I am gratified to have the support of so many of them throughout the Granite State," said Senator Clinton. "I am honored that Gray shares my vision for the future of our country and I will look to him to engage his peers throughout New Hampshire.. His hard work will help make this campaign a success."
Earlier this month, NH for Hillary announced 352 student leaders on 10 campuses across the state of New Hampshire supporting Hillary. In addition, supporters have already started more than 120 Students for Hillary chapters in 37 states, and the campaign expects many more to begin in the coming weeks. The campaign also unveiled a Web site, www.hillblazers.com, which will serve as the principal organizing tool for students and other young voters. Chynoweth will be the first chair named to the National Hillblazers Steering Committee which is made up of young leaders from across the country.
"There is no time to waste. I feel I must join in the fight to help elect Hillary Clinton as the next President of the United States. I have found that I care too much about this country and believe too much in the good that Hillary would do for all of us to just sit on the sidelines. We all must stand up now and get to work. And, I encourage every Young Democrat in New Hampshire and across the country to join Hillary's team in this campaign," said Chynoweth.
Chynoweth has recently accepted a position as the legal counsel for Dynamic Network Services, Inc. (DynDNS) - a Manchester-based technology company. He is also a member of the executive board of the Manchester Young Professionals Network. His primary area of practice is real estate and he focuses on representing small and mid-sized business. Gray is a magna cum laude graduate of the University of California at Berkeley and earned his JD from Duke University.
  