
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

Each year, fires claim some 6,000 lives in our country and destroy property worth $10 billion. The toll would be much higher were it not for the skilled and dedicated individuals who are our Nation's firefighters. These Americans, our friends and neighbors, confront danger every day as they protect our lives, homes, and communities. They exemplify the very best in the American spirit. On National Firefighters Day, 1988, and all year long, we owe municipal, volunteer, and all other firefighters our heartfelt thanks, our utmost respect, and our thorough cooperation in their fire prevention, rescue, and safety efforts.
Last year, 127 firefighters gave their lives in the line of duty. Let us pause in solemn and prayerful remembrance of these fallen heroes and of all firefighters who have given their lives through the years. Let us also be sure to extend our support and sympathy to their brave families.
From the days of firefighters' hand-drawn rigs in the 18th century to those of 19th-century horse-drawn engines, and on to today's modern fire and rescue vehicles, Americans young and old have thrilled, during many a parade on many a Main Street or Maple Avenue throughout our land, to colorful and exciting displays of powerful firefighting equipment. But we have thrilled even more in understanding and appreciation of firefighters' critical mission and their indispensable spirit of courage, service, and sacrifice. May such recognition always inspire us to salute and thank America's firefighters for all they do for each of us.
The Congress, by House Joint Resolution 649, has designated November 12, 1988, as "National Firefighters Day" and authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this day.
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim November 12, 1988, as National Firefighters Day. I call upon the people of the United States to observe this day with appropriate programs, ceremonies, and activities.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this tenth day of November, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-eight, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and thirteenth.

RONALD REAGAN
  