
    Pool Reports by Tina Sfondeles, Chicago Sun-Times 



Sent:
Reports:




November 6, 202211:32 CST

VP Travel Pool Report #1
Good morning from sunny Chicago, where we’re all relieved a crazy wind advisory is over.
AF2 landed at Midway International Airport at 11:27 a.m. Vice President Harris has one greeter: U.S. Rep Robin Kelly.
Harris is headlining two GOTV events. First up is an AAPI Victory Fund and Second City event at The Second City Chicago. Participants include U.S. Sen. Tammy Duckworth, U.S. Rep. Raja Krishnamoorthi and Cincinnati Mayor Aftab Pureva — and a number of artists and community leaders. Local Asian-American elected officials and candidates are also expected to participate.
The VP will then join much of the statewide Illinois Democratic ticket, including Gov. J.B. Pritzker, for a rally at XS Tennis and Education Foundation on the South Side.



November 6, 202211:45 CST

VP Travel Pool Report #2
VP motorcade is on the move at 11:42 a.m. It’s about a 30-minute drive to the first event at Second City.



November 6, 202212:05 CST

VP Travel Pool Report #3
Motorcade arrived at Second City at 12:04 p.m. Thankfully the route did not include Lake Shore Drive during a Bears game.
Pool is holding for a couple of minutes.



November 6, 202212:35 CST

VP Travel Pool Report #4
A pre-program for the Second City/AAPI Victory Fund began at 12:32 p.m. No sight of the VP yet.
Some info about the program from a White House official:
The Vice President is at the Second City Comedy Club for a moderated GOTV conversation with the AAPI Victory Fund.
Participants in moderated conversation:- Vice President Kamala Harris- Senator Tammy Duckworth (D-IL)- Jeannie Mai Jenkins, Television Host of The Real
Additional speakers:- Ari Afsar, Singer- Jimmy Yang, Comedian- The Linda Linda’s, Rock Band- Brad Jenkins, President & CEO of AAPI Victory Fund
The Vice President and moderators will be introduced by the Linda Linda’s band.



November 6, 202213:21 CST

VP Travel Pool Report #5
VP Harris took the Second City stage at 12:48 p.m. with Sen. Tammy Duckworth. She was introduced by the California punk band, the Linda Lindas, who said they are too young to vote, but stressed the importance of this year's elections.
Duckworth asked Harris how her heritage informed her views: "When I think about my background and I think the influence of my heritage on my work today, it is vast."
Harris: "The vast majority of us are so much more in common no matter the language, and that's something."
Duckworth to Harris: "Having a biracial Black Asian woman be that person in that seat of power sends messages around the world, and so we're so lucky to have you there."
Harris said Democrats are prepared to fight for democracy:
"These attacks on our democracy will not only directly impact the people around our country, but arguably around the world. That's how significant this is in terms of the scope and the depth of what is happening...When democracy is intact, it's extremely strong in what it does to uplift the people. When it's in tact it protects and defends individual rights. It works in the interest of justice and equality and fairness. It's very strong in that way. The duality is that it is incredibly fragile. It will only be as strong as our willingness to fight for it, and that's' why we're all here today. Because we are prepared to fight for it."
Harris held up a picture of the country that was color-coded with abortion laws: "There is an incredible amount of confusion and within, an environment where people are confused. It is then an environment that is ripe for...misinformation and predatory behaviors. And so, we have. This is a room full of opinion leaders. Part of the challenge we have right now is not only to reelect Tammy, not only to do what we need to do to pick up two more Senate seats, but we also need to use the bully pulpit that we bring to our work and in our lives, to make sure that we clarify what the rules are and also to remember on this issue, in the midst of this confusion."
Duckworth ended the program by bringing up the state's Asian-American elected officials and candidates. She said Illinois is the first state in the country to mandate teaching Asian-American history. VP left the stage at 1:22 p.m. And pool is on the move.



November 6, 202213:33 CST

VP Travel Pool Report #6
Motorcade left Second City at 1:25 p.m., and we’re now heading to a GOTV rally at the XS Tennis and Education Foundation with Gov. J.B. Pritzker and other Democratic statewide candidates.
The event is in the South Side’s Washington Park neighborhood.



November 6, 202213:59 CST

VP Travel Pool Report #7
Motorcade arrived at the XS Tennis and Education Foundation GOTV event at 1:42 p.m.
Pool is now in the main area awaiting the program, which is starting around 2 p.m.



November 6, 202214:39 CST

VP Travel Pool Report #8
The Democratic rally, hosted by Gov. J.B. Pritzker's campaign, began at 2:19 p.m. It's being streamed here: JBPritzker.com/Live.
Program info from a White House official:
Pre-Program speakers:

Chair Lisa Hernandez, Democratic Party of IllinoisJonathan Jackson, Democratic nominee for Illinois's 1st Congressional District
Alexi Giannoulias, Candidate for Illinois Secretary of State
Treasurer Michael Frerichs (D-IL)
Attorney General Kwame Raoul (D-IL)

Remarks program speakers:

Lt. Governor Juliana Stratton (D-IL)
Governor J.B. Pritzker (D-IL) will introduce Vice President Harris
Vice President Kamala Harris




November 6, 202215:27 CST

VP Travel Pool Report #9
VP Harris spoke for about 14 minutes. Pool headed back to motorcade at about 3:07 p.m. (Your pooler will not be watching departure from Midway).
Some highlights from her speech.
"I think it's really important to be clear, one does not have to abandon their faith or deeply held beliefs to agree the government should not be telling her what to do."
"We need two more senators. Because in addition to the Women's Health Protection Act, our President Joe Biden, has been clear. If we get two more senators, he will sign into law the John Lewis Voting Rights Act."
"These so-called extremist leaders, Republican party leaders, saying that what's on the line if they win includes Social Security, Medicare. There is so much at stake in this election."
Harris said she's met with over 100 leaders personally or by phone, including prime ministers, chancellors and kings:
"When we walk into those rooms representing the United States of America, we walk into those rooms chin up, shoulders back, professing to represent the greatest democracy in the world. Imperfect though it may be. And it gives us the authority then to talk about things like rule of law, human rights. And here's the thing about being a role model, which we all know. When you're a role model, people watch what you do to see if it matches what you say. And in that way then, my greatest fear is that dictators and autocrats around the world will say to their people who are in the struggle for rights, 'You want to talk about America. Well look what they're doing. And in that way, what is happening here, not only has a direct impact on the people of our nation. It very well will have a direct impact on the people around the world."



November 6, 202215:53 CST

VP Travel Pool Report #10
Per the VP’s office, wheels up at 3:43 p.m.
Good luck to all my fellow hardworking reporters in the coming days!




  