
    Dear George:
Your resignation as Secretary of Housing and Urban Development is a source of special regret to me, even though we have discussed your desire to leave the Cabinet for several months. I am grateful that you have agreed to serve until confirmation of a successor, and I accept your resignation effective at that time.
As a member of the Cabinet, you have contributed enormously not only of your time and energies, but also of that profound concern for the public good that has been the mark of your life and your career. Yours has been one of the most difficult assignments in the government, and you have handled it with great dedication and skill. Despite the bleak prospects which confronted the housing industry in 1969, your creative and determined actions have helped not only to set all-time records in housing production in each of the last two years, but also to energize a rebounding economy.
Your record is remarkable also for your forthrightness in pointing out the deficiencies in the untried housing programs that you were called upon, when taking office, to administer; for the innovative ways in which you worked to re-shape other HUD programs to reverse central city decay; for the programs you set in motion to modernize the housing industry, and for your establishment of mechanisms to stabilize the industry through a steadier and broader flow of mortgage funds. In addition, I have been particularly impressed by your success in decentralizing your department's operations, and bringing them closer to the communities and people they are meant to serve.
As you know, I share your concern with the need to encourage private problem-solving, and so to reduce the public temptation to expand the role of government beyond its proper limits. I also have great respect for your long and distinguished record of stimulating private and voluntary action. Thus, although I shall greatly miss having you as a member of the Administration, I am confident that in your private capacity you will continue to play a vital and constructive role in achieving the goals that we seek for America as we approach the Nation's 200th anniversary.
It has been a great personal pleasure to work with you during these past four years. Pat joins me in extending to you and Lenore our warmest good wishes, and in the hope that we will continue to see both of you often in the years ahead.
Sincerely,
RICHARD NIXON
[Honorable George W. Romney, Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, Washington, D.C. 21410]
  