
    SOUTH BEND, IN — Today, Pete Buttigieg's campaign announced that its field organizers have joined a union with the campaign's support. The campaign has voluntarily recognized IBEW Local 2321 as the exclusive bargaining unit for Pete for America staff holding the title of "Organizer."
"We are proud to work for a candidate who has proposed a bold economic agenda that would restore workers' rights, expand collective bargaining rights, and make it easier for workers to unionize," said Pete for America Campaign Manager Mike Schmuhl. "We've always said we would live our values and support our staff if they wanted to form a union and today, we are proud to keep that commitment. Our team members in the early states and across the country are working hard to make Pete the next President of the United States. We're looking forward to sitting down at the bargaining table to ensure they are receiving the great benefits and supportive working conditions that every campaign staffer deserves."
PFA Union Leadership also provided a statement of support:
"As organizers with Pete for America, we are proud of Pete Buttigieg's comprehensive and thoughtful policy to empower workers. We believe in Pete and look forward to an America where all workers have the right to unionize without interference and to collectively bargain for fair pay and benefits. Because we believe, as Pete does, in unions for all, we have chosen to unionize with IBEW Local 2321. Creating a dialogue between campaign workers and management serves to benefit everyone; not only on this particular campaign, but for future campaigns and for individuals who seek to join the profession. We do our jobs because we believe in the work and we believe in Pete Buttigieg. We consider it a privilege to work for Mayor Pete and to live out our shared values. We believe that part of living out those values is advocating for our coworkers. We look forward to Winning the Era as a unified and unionized campaign."
Campaign staff were notified of the organizers' intent to form a union, as well as the campaign's support, this afternoon.
  