
    The application for the 2018-2019 White House Fellowship is now open.
Founded in 1964, the President's Commission on White House Fellowships is the Nation's premiere program for leadership and public service. The White House Fellowship offers exceptional Americans first-hand experience working at the highest levels of the Federal Government on a strictly non-partisan basis. Selected individuals spend a year in Washington, D.C., working as full-time, paid government employees aiding Cabinet Secretaries, senior White House staff, and other top-ranking government officials.
The program has fostered a remarkable legacy of leadership. Of the more than 700 alumni in the last half-century, scores have gone on to top positions in the military, in business, in education, in the media, and in philanthropy. Current public officials who are alumni include: Representative Joe Barton of Texas; Transportation Secretary Elaine Chao; U.S. Ambassador to Japan Bill Hagerty; and Missouri Governor Eric Greitens.
The 2018-2019 White House Fellowship program year will begin in August 2018 and conclude in August 2019. All applicants must be a United States citizen and have completed their undergraduate education. Federal Government employees are not eligible, with the exception of active duty military personnel.
Selection criteria include:

A record of remarkable early-career professional achievement.
Evidence of leadership skills and the potential for further growth.
A demonstrated commitment to public service.
The skills to succeed at the highest levels of the Federal Government and the ability to work effectively as part of a team.

Interested individuals may apply at: https://fellows.whitehouse.gov/. The application is available beginning November 1 and will remain open until January 10, 2018, at 5:59 p.m. EST. Any applications received after the deadline will not be accepted.
For more information, including details about the Fellowship, its history, and the selection process, please visit: www.whitehouse.gov/participate/fellows. Any questions regarding the White House Fellows program can be directed to whitehousefellows@who.eop.gov.
  