
    The President today announced his intention to nominate the following individuals to be members of the National Council on the Arts for terms expiring September 3, 1990:
Joseph Epstein would succeed Thomas Patrick Bergin. He is a writer who has been editor of the American Scholar since 1975. He is past editor of Quadrangle-New York Times Books; past associate editor of the New Leader magazine; and past senior editor of Encyclopedia Brittanica. He is married, has two children, and resides in Evanston, IL. He was born January 9, 1937, in Chicago, IL.
Helen Frankenthaler would succeed James Rosenquist. She is an artist whose canvases hang in the Museum of Modern Art and other major museums throughout the world. In the past, she has taught at Yale, Princeton, and Hunter College. She was born December 12, 1928, in New York, NY, where she now resides.
Margaret Eleanor Hillis would succeed Robert Lawson Shaw. She is conductor of the Grammy Award winning Chicago Symphony Chorus. She is also conductor and music director of the Elgin Philharmonic Symphony and founder of the American Choral Foundation. She has received five Grammy Awards. She was born October 1, 1921, in Kokomo, IN, and now resides in Wilmette, IL.
M. Ray Kingston would succeed Bernard Bias Lopez. He has been an active supporter and participant in the arts in Utah for 30 years. He is vice president of FFKR Architects-Planners, Inc., in Salt Lake City. He is a recipient of the American Institute of Architects Silver Medal. He is married, has three children, and resides in Salt Lake City, UT. He was born October 7, 1934, in Ogden, UT.
Talbot Leland MacCarthy would succeed Rosalind W. Wyman. Mrs. MacCarthy is chairman of the Missouri Arts Council and treasurer of the Station List Publishing Co. She is also a trustee of the Arts & Education Council of Greater St. Louis. She is married, has two children, and resides in St. Louis, MO. She was born January 28, 1936, in St. Louis.
Carlos Moseley would succeed Jacob Lawrence. Mr. Moseley is chairman of the board of directors and past president of the Philharmonic-Symphony Society of New York. He has had a many-faceted career in music as a pianist, educator, government administrator, spokesman, counselor, and fundraiser. He was born September 21, 1914, in Laurens, SC, and now resides in Spartanburg, SC.
  