
    Senator Santorum said: "The economy is inextricably linked to the moral fabric of this country. And we can't have a real solution-based conversation about fixing the economic problems in this country without faith and family being a large part of that conversation.
It's wrong for anyone to try and reduce the idea of America solely to economy - because the spirit of America is much more than money - it's faith, family and freedom. The strength of the traditional family, the moral fabric of our nation, and basic value of human life greatly impact our economy. In fact, the family is the first economy, and without strong families we cannot have limited government, nor can we have a vibrant free market economy. Our Founders understood this basic fact, which is why the explicitly declared that our Rights come to each and every individual from God and not to a King to be spread around. Our Founders trusted in free people to make good and moral choices, and we must do that again today if we hope to remain a free and vibrant society."
Hogan Gidley, National Communications Director, said: "The next president must have the trust of the American people and must possess experience, knowledge, and ability to lead this nation forward. A President Santorum will be able to successfully address all major issues that confront this nation - the economic, the national security and the moral, cultural issues. The press would have you believe that the only issue is the economy - and yes, the economy is certainly a pressing issue - however, to have debates with no questions about the threat of a nuclear Iran and no questions about preserving the traditional American family is a disservice to American people. I will remind folks that in 2008, only one candidate - Tommy Thompson - received the lone health care related question in the presidential debates, and now, healthcare is the cornerstone issue of this election season. We must have a president ready to deal with all issues that come across his desk, and Rick Santorum is the one candidate prepared to do just that."
  