
    Rep. Plaskett Endorses Kamala Harris Campaign As Campaign Kicks Off Black Women Weekend Of Action
Today, Democratic Caucus Senior Whip, member of the Congressional Black Caucus, and a member of the Oversight and Reform, Transportation and Infrastructure, and Agriculture committees, Stacey Plaskett announced her support for Senator Kamala Harris' presidential bid, becoming the eleventh member of the CBC to support Senator Harris.
Congresswoman Plaskett has represented the United States Virgin Islands since 2015. Prior to her congressional career, Plaskett served as Assistant District Attorney in the Bronx DA's office, as well as Senior Counsel in the Department of Justice. There, while working on the Terrorism Task Force and the 9/11 Victims Compensation Fund, Plaskett advanced the 'DOJ Diversity Initiative' to increase minority attorneys in the Department of Justice. She also served as General Counsel for the Virgin Islands Economic Development Authority. Plaskett has been a fearless advocate for social, economic and racial justice.
"At a moment in time when forces have colluded to divide our country and expand the divisions between good Americans, there is no better person to bring the country together than Kamala Harris," said Plaskett. "Kamala's story and background is every American's story. She has not forgotten the hard honest work of her immigrant parents and the dream of a safe and prosperous future for their children in this country. As a child of Caribbean heritage and a former prosecutor like Kamala, I understand her fight to protect the forgotten victims and those unable to speak for themselves. She is the best candidate to take on Donald Trump, restore justice in the White House and our reputation among our allies, and solve the issues every day Americans face. Whether it's delivering the most significant middle class tax cut in generations, giving America's teachers a raise, or reforming our flawed criminal justice system, I know Kamala will rise above ideological debates and be a champion for all the people in the Oval Office."
"Throughout her career in public service, Stacey has been a staunch advocate for fighting poverty and protecting voting rights," Harris said. "Stacey has fought to bring economic growth and development to the Virgin Islands and has been a leader in Congress in the fight for access to affordable health care. I look forward to working with Stacey and I am glad she is joining this campaign in our fight for justice."
Plaskett joins her CBC colleagues Barbara Lee of California, Al Green of Texas, Frederica Wilson and Alcee Hastings of Florida, Lacy Clay of Missouri, Jahana Hayes of Connecticut, Bobby Rush of Illinois, Danny Davis of Illinois, Brenda Lawrence of Michigan and Marcia Fudge of Ohio. Harris' eleven CBC endorsements is more than any other candidate for president.
  