
    Des Moines, IA – Matt Reisetter, a recognized and well-respected leader in Iowa's evangelical community, has joined the Mike Huckabee for President campaign as its director of coalitions in Iowa.
"Matt is recognized as a young Iowa leader with a very bright future. His energy, optimism and passion are contagious. Matt is a man of deep faith and integrity. Matt's support for Governor Huckabee goes far beyond a job," said Bob Vander Plaats, Iowa chairman for the Huckabee campaign. "I look forward to working with Matt in delivering key coalitions to the caucuses on Jan. 3 for Governor Huckabee."
Reisetter worked as a college ministry director for seven years at Nazareth Church in Cedar Falls and is the part-time associate pastor at First Christian Church in the same community. Most recently, he has been employed by the Iowa Family Policy Center, where he will continue in a volunteer leadership role during his time with the Huckabee campaign.
"I had a great feeling about Governor Huckabee the very first time I met him way back in 2004. Since then, I've been watching him, listening to him, studying him and spending some time with him," Reisetter said. "Not only do I share his political views, and not only do we share core values that transcend politics, but I fully believe that Mike Huckabee is the right leader for America at this critical juncture in our nation's history. And he's our best chance to beat Hillary Clinton in 2008."
He added, "It is imperative that we elect a man of his caliber. I'm proud to wear myself out to help his campaign succeed. It's an opportunity I just could not pass up. And frankly, I wasn't willing to look in the mirror if, for whatever reason, Governor Huckabee ended up not being our president, wondering, ‘Could I have made a difference in the outcome?' and regretting not jumping in with both feet."
Born and raised in Cedar Falls, he graduated from the University of Northern Iowa in 1998 with a science degree and is working toward a master's degree in transformational leadership at Bethel Seminary in St. Paul. Reisetter also sought election to the Iowa House in 2006.
He and Reisetter and his wife, Jen, have two children. They reside in Cedar Falls.
  