
    "I speak to you on behalf of 350 million Americans with a message of friendship and partnership. I'm here to advance peace, to promote security, and to work with you to achieve a truly free and open Indo-Pacific region, where we are proud and we have sovereign nations and we thrive—and everybody wants to prosper."—President Donald J. Trump
President Donald J. Trump's trip to the Philippines to meet with Philippines President Rodrigo Duterte and leaders from the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN), and participate in the East Asia Summit (EAS) reaffirmed his personal commitment to promoting a free and open Indo-Pacific region based on shared principles.
STRENGTHEN INTERNATIONAL RESOLVE TO DENUCLEARIZE NORTH KOREA: President Donald J. Trump strengthened international resolve to address the security challenges presented by North Korea.

President Duterte, ASEAN, and EAS leaders reaffirmed the region's commitment to the global Maximum Pressure Campaign to bring North Korea back to the path of denuclearization.

PROMOTE A FREE AND OPEN INDO-PACIFIC REGION:President Trump reaffirmed the commitment of the United States to its alliance with the Philippines, strengthened the United States-ASEAN Strategic Partnership, and demonstrated United States leadership at the EAS in support of a free and open Indo-Pacific region. 
U.S.-ASEAN and EAS Summits: 

President Trump celebrated the 50th anniversary of ASEAN and the 40th anniversary of United States-ASEAN ties, including by releasing a Joint Statement of the ASEAN-United States Commemorative Summit. 
The leaders welcomed enhanced United States-ASEAN cooperation on maritime security issues, including through the first-ever United States-ASEAN Maritime Exercise in 2018.
President Trump attended the EAS, the region's premier leaders-led forum for addressing the Indo-Pacific's most pressing political and security issues, and rallied international cooperation to address shared regional challenges, including the South China Sea, counterterrorism, and the humanitarian crisis in Rakhine State, Burma. 
President Trump and Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong of Singapore co-sponsored an EAS leaders' Statement on Chemical Weapons reaffirming the region's commitment against chemical weapons use and the complete elimination and non-proliferation of such weapons.

United States-Philippines Alliance: 

The United States and the Philippines released a Joint Statement sending a clear message to the region about the strength of the alliance and continued close bilateral cooperation on mutual interests and shared regional challenges. 
President Trump congratulated President Duterte on the recent liberation of Marawi City, Mindanao, from ISIS-inspired terrorists. President Duterte thanked President Trump for the United States' support in defeating the threat. 
The United States has provided over $85 million in counterterrorism-related equipment, training, and support to the armed forces of the Philippines. 
President Trump announced an additional $14.3 million for the community of Marawi City to address the humanitarian needs of 360,000 displaced persons, and to support stabilization and speedy recovery in Marawi by jumpstarting livelihoods and promoting alternatives to violent extremism. 
The two leaders noted that the United States has provided approximately $65 million to enhance the Philippines' maritime security capabilities. 
President Trump announced $2 million to support drug demand reduction programs in the Philippines. 
President Duterte thanked President Trump for the delivery of more than $1 billion in United States foreign assistance to the Philippines over the past eight years.

ADVANCE AMERICA'S PROSPERITY: President Trump advanced American prosperity by promoting enhanced cooperation on trade and economic issues.

President Trump emphasized the United States' commitment to expanding fair and reciprocal trade between the United States and Indo-Pacific countries. 

  