
    WASHINGTON, DC – Today, President Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key Administration posts:
•      Tommy Beaudreau – Assistant Secretary for Policy, Management and Budget, Department of the Interior
•      Thomas A. Burke – Assistant Administrator for Research and Development, Environmental Protection Agency
•      Neil Kornze – Director of the Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
•      Caroline Diane Krass – General Counsel, Central Intelligence Agency
•      Ericka M. Miller – Assistant Secretary for Postsecondary Education, Department of Education
•      Stefan M. Selig – Under Secretary for International Trade, Department of Commerce
President Obama also announced his intent to appoint the following individuals to key Administration posts:
•      Cheryl D. Alston – Member, Advisory Committee to the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation
•      Dallas L. Salisbury – Member, Advisory Committee to the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation
President Obama said, "Our nation will be greatly served by the talent and expertise these individuals bring to their new roles. I am grateful they have agreed to serve in this Administration, and I look forward to working with them in the months and years ahead."
President Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key Administration posts:
Tommy Beaudreau, Nominee for Assistant Secretary for Policy, Management and Budget, Department of the Interior
Tommy Beaudreau currently serves as the Acting Assistant Secretary for Land and Minerals Management at the Department of the Interior. In addition, he is the Director of the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, a position he has held since 2011. From 2010 to 2011, he was a Senior Advisor to the Director of the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Regulation, and Enforcement. Previously, Mr. Beaudreau was a partner at Fried, Frank, Harris, Shriver & Jacobson LLP, where he practiced from 1997 to 2000 and again from 2001 to 2010. He clerked for the Honorable Jerome B. Friedman of the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia from 2000 to 2001. Mr. Beaudreau received a B.A. from Yale University and a J.D. from Georgetown University Law Center.
Dr. Thomas A. Burke, Nominee for Assistant Administrator for Research and Development, Environmental Protection Agency 
Dr. Thomas A. Burke is the Associate Dean for Public Health Practice and Training at the The Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health, a position he has held since 2008. Since 2009, Dr. Burke has concurrently served as the Jacob I. and Irene B. Fabrikant Chair in Health, Risk, and Society. He has been a professor in the Department of Health Policy and Management since 2002, and the Director of the Risk Sciences and Public Policy Institute since 1995. From 1994 to 2002, he was an associate professor in the Department of Health Policy and Management and previously served as assistant professor. Dr. Burke held the position of Deputy Commissioner for the State of New Jersey Department of Health from 1986 to 1990, and previously served as the Assistant Commissioner. From 1980 to 1986, Dr. Burke was the Director of the Office of Science and Research for the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection, and previously served as a Research Scientist in the Office of Cancer and Toxic Substances Research. From 1976 to 1977, he was a Public Health Trainee at the University of Texas Health Science Center at the Houston School of Public Health. Dr. Burke received a B.S. from St. Peter's College, an M.P.H. from the University of Texas School Of Public Health, and a Ph.D. from the University of Pennsylvania.
Neil Kornze, Nominee for Director of the Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
Neil Kornze is the Senior Advisor in the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) at the Department of the Interior, a position he has held since 2011. Previously, Mr. Kornze worked for U.S. Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid in a number of roles from 2003 to 2011, including Legislative Correspondent, Legislative Assistant, Director of Nevada Operations, and Senior Policy Advisor. From 2002 to 2008, he was an International Election Observer at the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe. Mr. Kornze received a B.A. from Whitman College and an M.Sc. from the London School of Economics.
Caroline Diane Krass, Nominee for General Counsel, Central Intelligence Agency
Caroline Diane Krass is currently Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General in the Office of Legal Counsel at the Department of Justice, a position she has held since February 2011. She served as Acting Assistant Attorney General in 2011. Previously, she served on the National Security Council as Special Assistant to the President and Special Counsel to the President. From 2007 to 2008, she served as a Special Assistant U.S. Attorney within the National Security Section at the U.S. Attorney's Office for the District of Columbia. She served as Senior Counsel in the Office of Legal Counsel at the Department of Justice from 2000 to 2007, and previously served as an Attorney-Advisor in that office. From 1999 to 2000, she served as Deputy Legal Adviser at the National Security Council. From 1996 to 1997, she served as Special Assistant to the General Counsel at the Department of the Treasury, and she served as Attorney-Adviser in the Office of the Legal Adviser at the Department of State from 1994 to 1996. Ms. Krass clerked for the Honorable Patricia M. Wald on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit. She received a B.A. from Stanford University and a J.D. from Yale Law School.
Dr. Ericka M. Miller, Nominee for Assistant Secretary for Postsecondary Education, Department of Education
Dr. Ericka M. Miller is the Vice President for Operations and Strategic Leadership at The Education Trust, a position she has held since 2007. Previously, from 2005 to 2007, Dr. Miller was Vice President and Director for Isaacson, Miller, where she led the K-12 education practice for the executive search firm. Prior to that, Dr. Miller worked for the McKenzie Group, serving as President and Chief Operating Officer from 2002 to 2005, and as Director for its Division of Organizational Development and Government Relations from 2001 to 2002. From 1997 to 2001, Dr. Miller was the education legislative assistant for U.S. Senator Bob Kerrey. From 1995 to 1997, Dr. Miller was an assistant professor at Mills College. Dr. Miller was also an Assistant Managing Editor for the Washingtonian Magazine from 1987 to 1990. Dr. Miller serves on a number of nonprofit boards, including the George Washington University National Council of Education and Human Development, the George Mason University College of Education and Human Development Advisory Board, and the Board of Trustees of the Scholarship Fund of Alexandria. Dr. Miller received a B.A. from Georgetown University and a Ph.D. from Stanford University.
Stefan M. Selig, Nominee for Under Secretary for International Trade, Department of Commerce 
Stefan M. Selig is currently the Executive Vice Chairman of Global Corporate and Investment Banking at Bank of America Merrill Lynch, a position he has held since 2009. From 1999 to 2009, he held various leadership roles at Banc of America Securities, including Vice Chairman of Global Investment Banking and Global Head of Mergers and Acquisitions. From 1992 to 1999, Mr. Selig held various senior investment banking positions, including Co-Head of Mergers and Acquisitions for UBS Securities. In 1988, he was an original member of Wasserstein Perella & Co. Starting in 1984, he worked in the Mergers and Acquisitions Group at The First Boston Corporation. Mr. Selig received a B.A. from Wesleyan University and an M.B.A. from the Harvard Business School.
President Obama announced his intent to appoint the following individuals to key Administration posts:
Cheryl D. Alston, Appointee for Member, Advisory Committee to the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation
Cheryl D. Alston is the Executive Director for the Employees' Retirement Fund of the City of Dallas. Ms. Alston began her term as Executive Director in 2004. In addition, she is a member of the Council of Institutional Investors, the National Council of Public Employee Retirement Systems, the Texas Association of Public Employee Retirement Systems, and the National Association of Securities Professionals. Ms. Alston is also a Vice-Chair of the Volunteer Center of North Texas. Ms. Alston was first appointed to the Advisory Committee to the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation in 2011. Ms. Alston received a B.S. from the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania and an M.B.A. from the Leonard N. Stern School at New York University.
Dallas L. Salisbury, Appointee for Member, Advisory Committee to the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation 
Dallas L. Salisbury is President and CEO of the Employee Benefit Research Institute (EBRI). He first joined EBRI as Chief Staff Executive at its founding in 1978. Previously, Mr. Salisbury held positions with the Washington State Legislature, the U.S. Department of Justice, the Employee Benefits Security Administration of the U.S. Department of Labor, and the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation. Mr. Salisbury previously served on the Advisory Committee to the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation from 1991 to 1994, and again from 2011 to 2013. He received a B.A. in Finance from the University of Washington and an M.P.A. from the Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs at Syracuse University.
  