
    Little Rock, AR – Former AR Governor and Presidential Candidate Mike Huckabee said he was disappointed that one of his political mentors endorsed another Republican candidate based on information that was factually incorrect.
"I love Paul Weyrich and he has been a political mentor to me. It hurts that he has accepted some misinformation as fact, but I will forever respect and appreciate him. I will continue to support Paul even if he doesn't support me, " Huckabee said. "One thing is for sure---when I was a 23 year old communications director for a Christian organization that helped launch Christian involvement in public affairs, Paul Weyrich was one of my heroes and I'll bet in the late 70's and 80's Mitt Romney wasn't listening to cassette tapes of Paul Weyrich speeches like I was. "
Weyrich wrote of Huckabee "I like him and he certainly is somebody who can give a stemwinder but I have learned so many things about his waffling positions."
One of the virtues of the Huckabee campaign is that the issues he supports today are the same issues he supported while serving as lieutenant governor and governor of Arkansas. Huckabee participated in the annual Right-to-Life March down Capitol Avenue in Little Rock
Huckabee successfully led efforts to promote a human life amendment and marriage amendment in Arkansas and, as President, would lead the charge for similar amendments at the federal level.
"My position on the sanctity of life has always been clear and consistent. It is the same with my views on marriage. The institution of marriage is between a man and a woman. I have never supported gay marriage or civil unions," Huckabee said.
Weyrich took the word of two people outside the mainstream of Republican politics who falsely claimed Arkansas' Republican Party is in shambles.
Dennis Milligan, chairman of the Republican Party of Arkansas, strongly disagrees with the idea that the party is in shambles.
"The Republican Party of Arkansas is not in shambles. While the party has never held the majority of elected offices, the Republican Party reached a high-water mark while Mike Huckabee was governor.
"In 2006, when Governor Huckabee left office because of term limits and Lt. Governor Win Paul Rockefeller died, Democrats where able to win the top two state constitutional offices. Arkansas wasn't the only state where Democrats won a lot of state and federal elections that year. It was a national trend and blaming Mike Huckabee is just wrong.
"In 2008, Republicans in Arkansas will field strong candidates for the state Legislature, U.S. Senate, Congress, and a favorite son for the White House. That's not a party in shambles," Milligan said.
Weyrich was also misinformed on Huckabee's stand on statehood for the District of Columbia. Huckabee has never supported statehood for the district, but does support citizens living in the District having a representative in the House of Representatives, but not the Senate.
"I have great respect for Paul Weyrich and I want him to know the truth," Huckabee said.
  