
    
  Becomes 100th member of Christie's New Hampshire Leadership Team

For Immediate Release:
Wednesday, November 18, 2015
MORRISTOWN, NJ - Following Governor Christie's strong performance in the last Republican Presidential debate and a number of polls showing his support growing in New Hampshire, influential Conservative radio show host, columnist and activist Jeff Chidester endorsed Chris Christie for President of the United States today.
"There is no doubt in my mind that Chris Christie is exactly the conservative leader that our nation needs in these dark and dangerous times," commented Chidester. A former community police officer in Dover and a U.S. Army Veteran, he added, "Governor Christie's conservative record of reform in New Jersey, combined with his detailed plans to improve America's financial and national security make him the best qualified candidate for President of the United States. After years of weakness in the Oval Office, it will take a strong, tough leader like Governor Christie to ensure that America is safe and secure from threats at home and abroad."
Chidester will join Governor Christie in person at his town hall meeting at the Stratham Municipal Center on Saturday.
Jeff Chidester is a lifelong New Hampshire resident, a notable conservative talk show host and activist, a veteran of the U.S. Army and a former Dover community police officer. Jeff is a featured columnist in The Portsmouth Herald and host of the popular iHeart Communications radio show NH Today Weekend Edition.
Jeff served in the US Army, where he was recognized for meritorious service as a leader of a counter-terrorist security team tasked with the security of senior NATO personnel and American dignitaries. In that capacity Jeff worked and studied in Europe and the Middle East, functioning with numerous international intelligence and security agencies.
After a distinguished military career, Jeff transitioned from the US Army to a career in law enforcement in New Hampshire. Jeff graduated from NH Police Standards and Training Council as a member of the 84th Police Academy class. Jeff served as community relations' police officer in New Hampshire, developing programs to bring people together in an effort to reduce crime and build a sense of neighborhood.
As a radio host Jeff has been the featured guest speaker and has served as an emcee for numerous events, both political and charity. In recent election cycles, Jeff has had the honor of serving as a debate moderator for local, state-wide and federal elections.
  