
    Mitt Romney today announced the support of eight State Senators from Nevada. "I am honored to have the support of these dedicated public servants in Nevada," said Mitt Romney. "Nevada has been hit particularly hard by the national policies of the last three years. We will work together to reverse those failed policies and bring jobs back to Nevada and the rest of the country." "With unemployment soaring, Nevadans need new leadership in the White House," said State Senate President Lt. Governor Brian Krolicki. "With his deep understanding of how the economy works, Mitt Romney is the best candidate to reverse President Obama's failed policies." Announcing his support, State Senate Republican Leader Mike McGinness said, "Mitt Romney continues to show that he is the most prepared candidate to not only defeat President Obama, but also rescue our economy. In order to leave our children and grandchildren with a balanced budget and an economy that creates jobs, we must elect a conservative leader with experience in the private sector. Mitt Romney is that leader." "President Obama's economic policies have failed the citizens of Nevada. Nevadans cannot afford four more years of these policies, which have resulted in high unemployment and foreclosure rates," said State Senator Michael Roberson. "Mitt Romney has the private sector background, along with his experience as Governor of Massachusetts, to balance the budget, create jobs, and provide the stability in Washington that will guarantee American exceptionalism." State Senators Endorsing Mitt Romney:

State Senator Greg Brower
State Senator Barbara Cegavske
State Senator Elizabeth Halseth
State Senator Joe Hardy
State Senator Ben Kieckhefer
State Senator Mike McGinness
State Senator Dean Rhoads
State Senator Michael Roberson

Nevada Leaders Already Endorsing Mitt Romney:

Lt. Governor Brian Krolicki, Nevada State Co-Chair
Congressman Joe Heck, Nevada State Co-Chair
Congressman Mark Amodei
Assemblyman Ed Goedhart
Assemblyman Scott Hammond
Assemblyman Cresent Hardy
Assemblyman Pat Hickey
Assemblyman Kelly Kite
Assemblyman Pete Livermore
Assemblyman Mark Sherwood
Assemblyman Lynn Stewart

  