
    Mr. Chief Justice, distinguished members of the judicial system, both Federal and State, honored guests, ladies and gentlemen:
It has been said that the law is the only profession in which the practitioner can produce something that is 200 pages in length and still have it called a brief. [Laughter]
Well, tonight let me assure you that the brief I am about to present will be very. This dinner revives an annual White House custom of past years to recognize the vital contribution of the Federal judiciary to the maintenance of a free republic.
Betty and I are delighted to--and I should say highly honored--by the presence of so many distinguished jurists and their spouses. It is appropriate, in my judgment, to restore the customs as we approach this Bicentennial. It is vital, as I see it, to renew our gratitude to the great Americans who conceived the American system of government.
They understood that government under law with its proven checks and balances is the firmest pillar of this Nation's freedom. With a clear understanding of history, the framers knew that an independent judiciary, the guardian of a written constitution, is essential to the preservation of individual liberties under a government of limited powers.
Our strong judicial system offers the world an example of how an independent judiciary can restrain the other branches of government when they overreach and, on occasion, force them to meet their responsibilities under our Constitution.
The American legal system we all know has produced many giants of law, both of the bench and of the bar. They symbolize the genius and the wisdom of two centuries of jurisprudence which has produced from men and women of widely differing political philosophies a great historical precedent.
It seems to me, Mr. Chief Justice, that our great pride is not only in a few outstanding individuals, it is in the many able and honest jurists whose daily performance gives our entire judiciary a well-deserved reputation for competence and total integrity.
The judiciary, as I see it, truly represents the broadest and the deepest respect of the American people. As one of the three separate branches of the Federal Government, the judiciary also deserves the highest respect of the Congress and the executive branch of the Government.
In this spirit, Mr. Chief Justice, I am honored to propose a toast to you for your dedicated work on behalf of all Americans. And I thank you and your colleagues for being with both Betty and myself on this occasion this evening. You and your associates in the judicial branch of the Government have kept the Constitution alive and, I should say, vigorous for 186 years. And it remains today our strongest guarantee of freedom for the future.
And with that, to you, Mr. Chief Justice, all that you and your associates represent.
  