
    LET ME just make one or two observations and comments.
As Commander in Chief, I am very proud of this great division. I am very impressed with the people that I have met and the exhibition that I have seen. This is the kind of strong, vigorous American spirit that has made America in 197 years a country in which all of us have tremendous pride.
We are proud of you. We know you can do the job. Thank you on behalf of 213 million other Americans who have their hearts and their faith and their best wishes with you.
Thank you very, very much.
[The President spoke at 12:53 p.m. at Indianhead Field after attending a football game between members of the United States Army 2d Infantry Division, headquartered at the camp. Following his remarks, the President went to Hanson Fieldhouse where he attended intra-divisional championship matches of tae kwon do, a form of Korean karate, and received a plaque marking his visit to Camp Casey. His remarks there, beginning at 1:25 p.m., follow.]
Thank you very, very much for this very thoughtful and really wonderful plaque that I will take back to Washington, give it to Mrs. Ford in the White House, and tell her the story of the 2d Infantry Division, which, in my opinion, is a great story of stimulation, of effort, aims and objectives, and dedication.
I am proud of you as Commander in Chief. I know that you have set a high example, not only for each and every one of you individually but for all others in the United States Army and in the Department of Defense.
What you are doing here is something that is not only good for the Army and good for the others in the Defense Department but it is good for America, it is good for you, and we are very, very proud of everything you are doing.
And Mrs. Ford, I am sure, will have this properly displayed in the White House, because it will touch her heart. It will tell her a great deal of what is being done out here--people on watch for her, for 213 million other Americans.
Your pro-life program is tremendous. This is the kind of esprit de corps, the kind of will to win, the will to do something for yourself and your Government that will make America an even greater and better place for all of us to live.
Thank you very, very much.
  