
    State leaders praise Perry's economic record and commitment to Constitution
NASHVILLE, Tenn. - Texas Gov. Rick Perry today announced the endorsement of six Republican Tennessee lawmakers, including Senate Republican Caucus Chairman Bill Ketron of Murfreesboro, State Sen. Brian Kelsey of Germantown, State Sen. Jim Summerville of Dickson, House Speaker Pro Tempore Judd Matheny of Tullahoma, State Rep. Don Miller of Morristown and State Rep. Mark White of Memphis.
Lt. Gov. Ron Ramsey, who endorsed Gov. Perry even before he announced his candidacy, praised his fellow legislators for their support.
"I've known Gov. Perry for a long time," said Lt. Gov. Ramsey. "I was impressed when I first met him and my esteem has only grown as he has proven his leadership in Texas. The time for rhetoric is over. We need a man of action. We need a president who understands how to promote economic growth. We need a president who understands that the role of the federal government must be limited. Rick Perry has heeded the call to national leadership at the exact right moment for our country."
"Rick Perry is the candidate who will get America working again," said Senate Republican Caucus Chairman Bill Ketron. "Under his leadership, Texas has experienced an economic miracle creating more than one million net new jobs. Gov. Perry's record is solid, proven and conservative."
"Rick Perry doesn't just spout conservative rhetoric — he implements tangible conservative reform," said State Rep. Mark White. "Gov. Perry is a principled constitutional conservative who has cut taxes, reduced spending and stood up to the job-killing regulations from Washington bureaucrats."
"I am humbled to have the support of so many Republican lawmakers in Tennessee," said Gov. Perry. "They share my vision for a stronger America with more jobs, more freedom and less government intrusion in the lives of our citizens. With the help of these legislators, we will run a spirited campaign in Tennessee, and in 2012 we'll get America working again."
  