
    President Xi. The Honorable President Trump and Mrs. Trump, ladies and gentleman, dear friends: Good evening. As we often say in China, what a joy it is to have friends come from afar. On behalf of the Chinese Government and the Chinese people, I once again extend a warm welcome to you, President Trump, on your state visit to China.
Although there is a vast ocean between China and the United States, distance has never prevented our two great nations from coming together. And we have never stopped our efforts to pursue friendship and win-win cooperation. Forty-five years ago, President Nixon visited China, a visit that reopened the door of exchanges between China and the United States. As he rightly pointed before leaving China, it was a week that changed the world. Since then, thanks to the joint efforts of several generations of leaders and the people of our two countries, historic progress has been made in China-U.S. relations. It has benefited our two peoples. Indeed, it has changed the world.
How time flies. Over the past 45 years, historic changes have taken place in the world, in China, and in China-U.S. relations. The cold war is a thing of the past. The world today is experiencing tremendous progress, profound transformation, and major adjustments. China has embarked on path of reform and opening up, and socialism with Chinese characteristics has entered a new era.
China and the United States—once walked with animosity—have grown into a community with our interests closely converging. Today, our two countries share far more and broader common interests, as well as greater and stronger responsibilities in upholding global peace and promoting common development. The strategic dimension and global influence of China-U.S. relationship have continued to grow.
President Trump, your state visit to China is another event of historic importance. Over the past 2 days, we have had in-depth exchange of views on how China and the United States should seize the opportunity, rise up to the challenges, and open up new grounds in our relations. Together, we have mapped out a blueprint for advancing China-U.S. relations. We both agree that China and the United States should remain partners, not rivals. We both agree that when we work together, we can accomplish many great things to the benefit of our two countries and the whole world.
I have also briefed President Trump on the 19th International Congress of the Communist Party of China, and this is my message: The 19th Party Congress will bring even more opportunities for China's cooperation with the United States and other countries. Indeed, the Chinese dream is closely connected with dreams of people of all other countries in the world.
The Honorable President Trump and Mrs. Trump, ladies and gentlemen, dear friends: One has to make—[inaudible]—efforts to fulfill one's dream. As an old Chinese adage goes, "No distance, not even remote mountains and vast oceans can ever prevent people with perseverance from reaching their destination." Benjamin Franklin, one of America's Founding Fathers, also said, "He who can have patience, can have what he will." It is my firm conviction that China-U.S. relations face limited challenges, but boundless potential for growth. With perseverance, we can surely write a new chapter in the history of China-U.S. relations. With perseverance, our two great nations will definitely make new contributions to creating a better future for mankind.
Now please join me in a toast to the prosperity of China and the United States and the well-being of our people. To the friendship between China and the United States, and between our people and to the health of you, President Trump, Mrs. Trump, and all our sides present.
Cheers.
[At this point, President Xi offered a toast.]
Moderator. Now I would like to invite President Trump to come to the podium to give a toast.
President Trump. Thank you so much. That was so nice. And this has been an extraordinary few days. President Xi, your generous words, I must say, Melania—we both want to express our gratitude to you and Madam Peng for the extraordinary hospitality that you've shown us from the moment we arrived in your magnificent country, China.
Yesterday we visited the Forbidden City, which stands as a proud symbol of China's rich culture and majestic spirit. Your nation is a testament to thousands of years of vibrant, living history. And today it was a tremendous honor to be greeted by the Chinese delegation right here at the Great Hall of the People. This moment in history presents both our nations with an incredible opportunity to advance peace and prosperity alongside other nations all around the world. In the words of a Chinese proverb, "We must carry forward the cause and forge ahead into the future." I am confident that we can realize this wonderful vision, a vision that will be so good and, in fact, so great for both China and the United States.
Though we come from different places and faraway lands, there is much that binds the East and West. Both of our countries were built by people of great courage, strong culture, and a desire to trek across the unknown into great danger. But they overcame. The people of the United States have a very deep respect for the heritage of your country and the noble traditions of its people. Your ancient values bring past and future together into the present. So beautiful.
It is my hope that the proud spirits of the American and Chinese people will inspire our efforts to achieve a more just, secure, and peaceful world, a future worthy of the sacrifices of our ancestors and the dreams of our children.
In a moment, we will view a video of my granddaughter Arabella reciting traditional Chinese songs and poetry about your country's serene beauty and treasured customs. Our children so often remind us of our shared humanity and true dignity.
President Xi, on behalf of the American people, I offer this to toast to you: To the people of your country and to a friendship that will only grow stronger and stronger over many years to come.
Thank you. This has been a great honor to be with you both. We very much appreciate it.
[President Trump offered a toast.]
  