
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
November 11
In the morning, the President traveled to Arlington, VA. He returned to Washington, DC, in the afternoon.
November 12
In the afternoon, the President met with congressional leaders in the Oval Office to discuss bipartisan relations in the upcoming 105th Congress.
Later, the President held separate meetings with Agriculture Secretary Dan Glickman, Energy Secretary Hazel R. O'Leary, Labor Secretary Robert B. Reich, and Transportation Secretary Federico Pena concerning the second term transition.
The White House announced that the President welcomed the formation of a Special Advisory Committee to the Secretary of State on Religious Freedom Abroad.
November 13
In the morning, the President had telephone conversations with the following foreign leaders: Prime Minister Jean Chretien of Canada concerning the situation in Zaire; President Hosni Mubarak of Egypt and King Hussein I of Jordan concerning the Middle East peace process; President Kim Yong-sam of Korea concerning security issues on the Korean Peninsula; and President Fernando Cardoso of Brazil concerning the visit of Presidential Counselor Thomas F. (Mack) McLarty to follow up on Summit of the Americas agenda items.
The President announced the formation of the Presidential Inaugural Committee 1997 to organize the celebration of his inauguration to a second term. He also announced that Deputy Chief of Staff Harold Ickes will coordinate inaugural activities from the White House. The following persons will serve as vice chairs of the committee: Ronald Burkle, Linda Chavez-Thompson, Lawton Chiles, Beth Dozoretz, Gordon D. Giffin, Robert Johnson, Ellen Malcolm, Richard Leon Mays, Carol Pensky, Edward Rendell, Ed Romero, Fred Seigel, Stanley Shuman, Mary Elizabeth Teasely, and Jonathan Tisch.
November 14
In the morning, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu of Israel concerning the Middle East peace process. Later, the President had a telephone conversation with President Jacques Chirac of France concerning the situation in Zaire.
The President met with Acting U.S. Trade Representative Charlene Barshefsky, Health and Human Services Secretary Donna Shalala, and Education Secretary Richard Riley to discuss second term transition.
November 15
In the evening, the President and Hillary Clinton traveled to Honolulu, HI.
  