
    The "main money man for a fund-raiser attended by Clinton that was "arranged to persuade Clinton to ease international sanctions against Iraq."
Danou, Julie
The niece of Samir Danou who said the Danou family donated between $400,000 and $500,000 of the $800,000 raised at the fund- raiser.
Huang, John
A former agent for Indonesia's Lippo Bank, a one-time high ranking official with the Department of Commerce and currently a DNC fundraiser who has illegally raised hundreds of thousands of dollars for Bill Clinton.
Lee, John K.H.
South Korean executive who arranged for a quarter-million-dollar illegal donation to the DNC after meeting personally with President Clinton.
Riady, James
Son of the founder of the Lippo Group who met Clinton in 1984 after Lippo invested $20 million in an Arkansas bank. Riady contributed $175,000 to the DNC and the, Clinton Inaugural Fund in 1992 and has since met with Clinton at least three times.
Cabrera, Jorge
Convicted drug smuggler who contributed $20,000 to the Democratic National Committee and was given a White House dinner invitation and a meeting with the First Lady and Vice President.
Tai-Ying, Liu
Head of Taiwanese Nationalist Party's business arm who offered to donate $15 million to the DNC at a meeting with Clinton aide Mark Middleton.
Loutchansky, Grigori
A Russian who operates an international conglomerate linked to money laundering, narcotics and illegal arms sales -- including the smuggling of nuclear weapons from the former Soviet Union -- who Time magazine called "the most pernicious unindicted criminal in the world."
Loutchansky arranged a private meeting with Clinton at a 1993 fundraiser.
Gandhi, Yogesh
A man who says he is penniless and owes $10,000 in back taxes, who contributed $325,000 in questionable funds to DNC during Clinton's term.
Riady, Mochtar
Multi-billionaire founder and CEO of Lippo. Wiriandinata, Arief and Soraya Gardener and green card holders, now back in Indonesia, who managed to give $450,000 to DNC.
  