
    [As prepared for delivery]
Hello Pennsylvania!
Are you ready?
Joe's here. Jill's here. Doug's here. You are here. We are here.
To bring this election home!
And we've got one more day.
This is it.
Joe and I are just so grateful.
For your support, your prayers, your love. For your time — volunteering, making calls. For your trust in us. And for your vote.
And as we head into tomorrow, I know we are empowered. We are optimistic about our future. We know the strength of unity. We know the strength of America.
When Joe asked me to join this ticket, saying yes was an easy decision.
We come from different backgrounds—but we were raised, with the same values.
Hard work. Honesty. Decency.
A belief that we all have a responsibility to look out for one another.
And those are the values I've seen as I've traveled across our country over the past 84 days.
The values we share as Americans.
Across our country, you can feel something's happening.
In big cities and small towns — wearing masks and social distancing — I've seen people lining the streets and gathering on corners to show their support.
They're bringing their children, holding up signs, wearing their colors and strolling to the polls, and waving the red, white and blue.
The energy out there is real. It is inspiring.
In this battle for the very soul of our nation — we have seen what can be, unburdened by what has been.
We've seen who we are.
The country we love.
And that is why I know that tomorrow we are going to elect Joe Biden to be the next President of the United States!
GOTV
So, tell me, how many of you already voted?
Honk if you've voted!
Now, if you haven't voted yet — go to IWillVote.com to find out when and where you can vote tomorrow.
Honk if you've been sending texts and making calls to get out the vote.
Cause we all know from the time the polls open tomorrow morning until they close, every minute counts.
So we can't let up because it ain't over till it's over.
And everything is at stake.
Our health, our economy, our children's futures. A woman's right to make decisions about her own body. A criminal justice system that treats all people equally and with dignity. A Supreme Court that advances the legacy of Justice Ginsburg. That lives up to the phrase above its entrance: Equal Justice Under Law.
The kind of country we want to be.
It's all on the line.
This is the most consequential election of our lifetimes — and the decision we make will last for generations.
And as I travel around, one of the biggest issues on everyone's mind is the pandemic that is ravaging our country.
And remember back in January, Donald Trump knew just how bad the coronavirus was. That it was deadly and airborne.
But what did he do with that information?
He looked straight into the cameras at the American people and lied about it. He covered it up.
Can you imagine if you knew on January 28th what he knew?
Can you imagine how your family might have been able to prepare?
Can you imagine how our businesses, how our schools might have been able to prepare?
How we as a country might have been able to prepare?
But President Trump doesn't think about what's best for America. He only thinks about what's best for himself.
And as a result, we have lost 230 thousand lives to COVID.
So many people forced to die alone because of the nature of this virus.
230 thousand Americans.
The last time we experienced loss like this was World War Two.
In addition, we're looking at over 9 million people who have contracted the virus. And we know it's hitting communities of color hardest. Latinos are contracting COVID at 3 times the rate of others. Black folks are dying at 2 times the rate of others.
And let's be clear.
We are also in the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression because President Trump failed to contain this virus.
He failed to lead.
23 million people are receiving unemployment. 1 in 5 mothers with children under the age of 12 describe them as hungry. 1 in 6 households are behind on rent. 1 in 4 small businesses have closed.
And yet, 9 months into this pandemic, this president still doesn't have a plan to contain it.
We have witnessed the greatest failure of a presidential administration in America's history.
And on top of it all, President Trump is in court right now trying to end the Affordable Care Act and take health coverage away from over 20 million Americans.
He's trying to end protections for the over 100 million Americans with pre-existing conditions.
Conditions like asthma, diabetes, high blood pressure or cancer.
Honk if you know someone with asthma, diabetes, breast cancer.
America, we cannot afford four more years of Donald Trump.
The first thing Joe and I will do when we're in the White House is get this virus under control.
We'll listen to the scientists and public health experts.
Provide free testing, treatment and when it's available, a safe vaccine for all.
Provide schools with the guidance and resources they need to reopen safely.
And we will build back an economy that actually works for working people.
And let me be clear: Joe and I will not increase taxes on anyone making less than $400,000 a year. Period.
But we will, ask the super wealthy and biggest corporations to pay their fair share.
And we'll invest those tax dollars to rebuild our nation's infrastructure.
Tackle the climate crisis and create millions of good-paying union jobs.
Make child care more affordable and invest in our nation's schools and teachers.
Build on Obamacare and expand access to health care to tens of millions of Americans, including mental health care. Lower prescription drug costs. Protect and expand Medicare and Social Security.
We'll work to root out the systemic racism that still exists in our criminal justice system.
Confront white supremacy. And fight for economic justice — no matter your zip code or race.
And we'll begin the work of healing, repairing, and uniting our nation — Democrats. Republicans. And Independents. People of all races and backgrounds.
Because that's how we've always overcome our greatest challenges. Together.
And Joe gets that.
You see, Joe is a leader who understands what the American people are going through.
He sees us. He understands suffering because he has experienced it himself.
Joe Biden is a leader of both strength and empathy. Toughness and humility.
He understands that the measure of a person's strength is not based on who you put down, but who you lift up.
And he knows that no matter where we come from or where we live, no matter our race or gender, background or faith; no matter how we identify or who we love; no matter the language your grandmother speaks; what we have in common is so much stronger than what divides us.
That's the kind of leader America needs right now.
And it's why we must win this election.
So remember this:
Your vote is your voice, and your voice is your power. Don't let anyone take away your power. Now is the time to stand up. Now is the time to speak out. And now is the time to vote.
Vote like our lives depend on it. Because they do.
Vote like our democracy depends on it. Because it does.
Vote like justice, equality, and opportunity — decency, character, and dignity — are on the ballot.
Because they are.
One day, our children and grandchildren are going to look us in the eye and ask what we did in this moment.
And I want to be able to say, we did everything we could to fight for our country and their future.
So, let's do that.
Let's vote.
With conviction. Confidence. And hope.
And let's elect Joe Biden the next President of the United States!
Thank you. May God bless you, and may God bless America.
  