
    AD FACT:
MAYOR GIULIANI: "I believe I've had the most leadership experience of anyone that's running."
BACKGROUND:
Mayor Giuliani Has At Least Twenty Years Of Public Executive Leadership Experience. Giuliani was Chief of the Narcotics Unit and then Executive Assistant U.S. Attorney, Office of the U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of New York, 1973-1975; Associate Deputy Attorney General and Chief Of Staff To Deputy Attorney General, 1975-1976; Associate Attorney General, 1981-1983; U.S. Attorney for the Southern District Of New York, 1983-1989; Mayor of New York City 1994-2002. ("Rudolph Giuliani," Newsmakers, 12/94; Laurie Johnston, "New York Day By Day," The New York Times, 6/4/83; John King, "Republicans Sweep In New Jersey, Virginia and New York," The Associated Press, 11/3/93; Glen Thrush, "Departing Giuliani Will Sign With Ernst & Young," The Commercial Appeal, 1/1/02)
Mike Huckabee Has Fourteen Years Of Public Executive Leadership Experience, As Lt. Governor Of Arkansas, 1993-1996, and Governor Of Arkansas, 1996-2007. (Mike Huckabee For President Website, www.mikehuckabee.com, Accessed 11/11/07)
John McCain Has Eight Years Of Public Executive Leadership Experience, As Commander Of Navy Squadron, 1974-1976 And As U.S. Navy Liaison To The U.S. Senate, 1977-1981. (Barbara Silberdick Feinberg, John McCain: Serving His Country, 2000, p. 2000; John McCain For President Website, www.johnmccain.com, Accessed 11/11/07)
Mitt Romney Has Seven Years Of Public Executive Leadership Experience, Three Years As Head Of Salt Lake City Organizing Committee, 1999-2007, And Four Years As Governor Of Massachusetts, 2003-2007. (Mitt Romney For President Website, www.mittromney.com, Accessed 11/11/07)
Fred Thompson, Hillary Clinton, Barack Obama, And John Edwards Each Have No Public Executive Leadership Experience. (Friends Of Fred Thompson Website, www.fred08.com, Accessed 11/11/07; Hillary Clinton For President Website, www.hillaryclinton.com, Accessed 11/11/07; Barack Obama For President Website, www.barackobama.com, Accessed 11/11/07; John Edwards For President Website, www.johnedwards.com, Accessed 11/11/07)
AD FACT:
Mayor Giuliani: "It's not just holding executive positions, like Mayor of New York, or United States Attorney, or 3rd ranking official in the Reagan Justice Department. It's having held those positions in time of crisis."
BACKGROUND:
Giuliani Was The 107th Mayor Of New York City. (City Of New York Website, http://www.nyc.gov/html/records/rwg/, Accessed 11/11/07)
· When Mayor Giuliani Took Office, There Were 1,946 Murders In 1993 And 11,545 Major Crimes Per Week. ("1993 Index Of Crime By Metropolitan Statistical Area," 1993 FBI Uniform Crime Report, p. 139)
Nearly One Out Of Every Seven New Yorkers Were On Welfare In 1993. (City Of New York Office Of Operations, Reengineering Municipal Services 1994-2001, p. 103)
· Giuliani Faced Fiscal Crisis When He Took Office In 1994. "Of all the problems Giuliani will face, none will loom larger – or sooner – than the question of what to do about the city's finances. Under a tough law passed after the fiscal crisis of the mid-1970s, he will be required to explain in January how he plans to close the gap in the current year's budget, estimated at about $ 400 million. Soon after, he will be required to come up with the outline of his budget for the fiscal year starting next summer, which currently contains a projected $1.5-billion deficit." (Karen Rothmyer, "Giuliani Seen As Good For Business," Newsday, 11/4/93)
In 1997, There Was Terrorist Plot To Bomb New York Subway Station And Commuter Bus. "Two men with Jordanian passports were arrested yesterday morning in a Brooklyn apartment, where police officers found components of one or more pipe bombs — evidence of what the authorities say was a terrorist plot to detonate bombs in the busy Atlantic Avenue subway station and on a commuter bus. The two suspects were shot after a team of New York City police officers, acting on a tip from a man who lived with the two, burst into the Park Slope apartment an hour before dawn." (Dan Barry, "Bombs In Brooklyn: The Overview," The New York Times, 8/1/97)
Giuliani Served As U.S. Attorney For The Southern District Of New York From 1983-1989. "U.S. Attorney Rudolph W. Giuliani, who successfully prosecuted stock traders, corrupt politicians and the Mafia, announced his resignation Tuesday … Giuliani – who served as associate attorney general in the Justice Department before becoming U.S. attorney in 1983 …" (Vera Haller, "Famous Prosecutor Steps Down, Leaves Political Door Open," The Associated Press, 1/11/89)
Mafia "Commission" Operated "Operated The Rackets In New York City And Controlled The American Underworld Since 1931." (William M. Reilly, United Press International, 11/19/86)
"The Mob's Ruling Council Has Controlled Crime Since The 1930s And Ran The Entire Concrete Construction Industry In New York City" ("The Nation," Los Angeles Times, 11/7/86)
New York City Had A Drug Crisis. Right after coming into office, Giuliani announced a Federal 'sweep' to rid Manhattan's Lower East Side streets of small-time drug dealers. Most Federal prosecutors believe their limited resources for drug enforcement should be concentrated on international cases. They leave the $40 'busts' to local authorities. Not Giuliani. He said his office could do both." (Michael Winerip, "High-Profile Prosecutor," The New York Times, 6/9/85)
New York City Had Corrupt Politicians Undermining Public Trust. Frontline's Mark Obenhaus: "The revelation that officials as powerful as Donald Manes and Stanley Freidman were corrupt has shaken public confidence in New York City government. The scandal has spawned a wrath of other investigations. During 1986 and 1987, the Commissioners of Hospitals, Taxis, Transportation, Cultural Affairs, Business Development, two members of the City Planning Commission, a borough president and a United States Congressman all resigned or were under indictment." (PBS's "Frontline," 6/23/87)
"In 1981, [Rudy] Giuliani Joined The Reagan Administration As An Associate Attorney General, The Third-Ranking Post In The Justice Department." (Josh Barbanel, "Reaganism Now Liability For Giuliani," The New York Times, 10/11/89)
President Reagan Was Shot In 1981 And After Being Notified Of Attempted Assassination Of President Reagan, Giuliani Immediately Took Charge And Coordinated Detention Facilities And Physical Security Of John Hinckley. ("President Hit In Chest," St. Louis Post-Dispatch, 3/30/81; Office of the Associate Attorney General, "Hinckley Sequence Of Events," U.S. Department of Justice)
Narcotics Trafficking Was Prevalent When Giuliani Became Associate Attorney General. "At the Justice Department, Mr. Giuliani has been highly visible, particularly as one of the chief strategists of the Reagan Administration's stepped-up effort to combat narcotics trafficking. He was instrumental in devising the Reagan budget request of $130 million granted by Congress last year to finance 12 new investigative drug task forces across the nation." (Jane Perlez, "Giuliani Willing To Accept U.S. Attorney Job In State," The New York Times, 3/10/83)
There Were Over 1.1 Million Violent Crimes Reported In The United States When Reagan Appointed Giuliani To Justice Department Position. "The federal government brings 35,000 criminal cases a year, the majority for property rather than violent crimes. In 1979, the last full year for which the FBI has figures, there were 1,178,540 violent crimes reported to police in the United States. The overwhelming majority of these violent crimes of murder, rape, robbery and aggravated assault did not violate federal law. In addition, the federal government has reliable evidence that for each violent crime reported to the police in the United States, two others go unreported." (Michael J. Sniffen, "Top Justice Official Says Rehabilitation Key To Reducing Violent Crime," The Associated Press, 8/19/81)
AD FACT:
MAYOR GIULIANI: "I've been tested in a way in which the American people can look to me. They're not going to find perfection, but they're going to find somebody who has dealt with crisis almost on a regular basis and has had results. And in many cases, exceptional results. Results people thought weren't possible. I'm Rudy Giuliani and I approve this message."
BACKGROUND:
AS MAYOR, GIULIANI TURNED AROUND NEW YORK
Giuliani Turned New York Into Safest Large City In America
FBI Statistics Established New York City As Safest Large City In America. "According to FBI statistics, New York is the safest large city in the nation. From July 1, 1996, through June 30, 1997, the graphs showed 44% fewer major felonies and 60% fewer murders." (John J. Goldman, "Giuliani's State Of Mind Goes From N.Y. To National," Los Angeles Times, 10/18/97)
Crime Dropped Dramatically Under Mayor Giuliani:
56% Drop In The FBI Crime Index Between 1993 And 2001, Far Outpacing 16% Decline In National Crime Index. (1993 FBI Uniform Crime Report; 2001 FBI Uniform Crime Report, www.fbi.gov/ucr/ucr.htm, Accessed 3/12/07)
66% Cut In Murder Rate; From 1,946 In 1993 To 649 In 2001. ("1993 Index Of Crime By Metropolitan Statistical Area," 1993 FBI Uniform Crime Report, p. 139; "2001 Index Of Crime By Metropolitan Statistical Area, 2001 FBI Uniform Crime Report, www.fbi.gov/ucr/ucr.htm, Accessed 3/12/07)
Over 70% Drop In Shootings. (City Of New York Office Of Operations, Reengineering Municipal Services 1994-2001, p. 16)
New York Saw A 45.7% Decline In Rapes, A 67.2% Decline In Robberies, A 39.6% Decline In Aggravated Assault, A 68.2% Decline In Burglary, A 43% Decline In Larceny, And A 73.3% Decline In Motor Vehicle Theft. (1993 FBI Uniform Crime Report; 2001 FBI Uniform Crime Report, www.fbi.gov/ucr/ucr.htm, Accessed 3/12/07)
New York Observer: "The Phenomenal Decline Under Mr. Giuliani Of Larger Crimes Such As Murder, Robbery And Rape Was Matched By A Reduction In Quality-Of-Life Offenses – Which In Turn Contributed To The Drop In Major Crime …" (Editorial, "Return Of The Squeegee?" New York Observer, 1/7/02)
"New York Ranked As The Safest Big City In The U.S. For The Fourth Straight Year As Crime Dropped Around The State And Nation, According To An FBI Report Released Yesterday." (K.C. Baker and Corky Siemaszko, "N.Y. Notches 4th Year As Safest Major City," Daily News, 5/17/99)
"Under Giuliani's Leadership, New York City Was Able To Turn Its Crime Infamy Into The FBI's Safest Large City In America For The Past Five Years." (Aaron Fried, Op-Ed, "Small Numbers Oppose Time's Person Of The Year," The [Syracuse] Post-Standard, 5/3/02)
The Daily News: "New York Is The Safest Big City In The Nation." (Editorial, "No Watchdog For NYPD," Daily News, 3/28/00)
Giuliani Turned Welfare Into Workfare
Newt Gingrich Called Giuliani An "Absolute Revolutionary" On Welfare Reform. "[O]ur moral critique — if anything, I feel, in retrospect, I was not bold enough in Washington, DC. Our moral critique of the welfare state is going to accelerate, and the place it's happening is at the state and local governments. I mean, Giuliani, in his real reform of welfare, is in fact, behaving as an absolute revolutionary." (Newt Gingrich, Remarks At Progress And Freedom Foundation Conference, Washington, DC, 1/22/96)
While Washington Was Held Back By Endless Discussion, Giuliani "Raced Ahead" To Create Nation's Most Successful Welfare-To-Work Program. "The Giuliani administration, which created the nation's largest and most successful workfare program among single adults in the Home Relief program, is now extending the work requirement to recipients of Aid to Families with Dependent Children i.e., single mothers. The program continues the city's ambitious efforts at reform, one based on action. While Washington and Albany talk endlessly … Mayor Giuliani has raced ahead by going back to basics: work." (Editorial, "The Four-Letter Fix For Welfare," Daily News, 3/23/96)
Giuliani Cut Over 640,000 People From City Welfare Rolls To The Lowest Number Since 1966. (City Of New York Human Resources Administration, January 1999 HRA/DSS Fact Sheet; City Of New York Human Resources Administration, December 2001 HRA/DSS Fact Sheet; City Of New York Office Of Operations, Reengineering Municipal Services 1994-2001, p. 111)
58.37% Decrease In Number Of Welfare Recipients, From 1.1 Million In January 1994 To 462,595 In December 2001. (City Of New York Human Resources Administration, January 1999 HRA/DSS Fact Sheet; City Of New York Human Resources Administration, December 2001 HRA/DSS Fact Sheet)
Giuliani Turned Welfare Offices Into Job Centers, Which Made 151,376 Placements In FY 2001. (City Of New York Office Of Operations, Reengineering Municipal Services 1994-2001, p. 111)
New York City's Workfare Program Required 20 Hours/Week Of Able-Bodied Recipients. (City Of New York Office Of Operations, Reengineering Municipal Services 1994-2001, p. 103)
Over 250,000 Total Work Experience Program (WEP) Participants. (City Of New York Office Of Operations, Reengineering Municipal Services 1994-2001, p. 103)
35,599 WEP Participants At Program's Peak In 1999. (Independent Budget Office Of The City Of New York, "Welfare And Work," http://www.ibo.nyc.ny.us/newsfax/nws61welfareandwork.html, 2/14/05)
Mayor Giuliani's NYPD Broke Up Subway Bombing Plot
In 1997, New York Police Broke Up Suspected Plot To Bomb New York Subway Station, Commuter Bus. "Two men with Jordanian passports were arrested yesterday morning in a Brooklyn apartment, where police officers found components of one or more pipe bombs — evidence of what the authorities say was a terrorist plot to detonate bombs in the busy Atlantic Avenue subway station and on a commuter bus. The two suspects were shot after a team of New York City police officers, acting on a tip from a man who lived with the two, burst into the Park Slope apartment an hour before dawn." (Dan Barry, "Bombs In Brooklyn: The Overview," The New York Times, 8/1/97)
In Discussing Foiled Potential Terrorist Plot, Giuliani Praised Work Of Police Force. BILL RITTER: "I'm going to put you on the spot here. We were lucky, weren't we?" GIULIANI: "Yes, we were." RITTER: "We — you got a tip, you got a tip…" GIULIANI: "You know, it's like… […] … anything else. There was a great degree of luck in the fact that this information came to the police. The moment it came to them, though, I'm very proud of the way they handled it. This is something that could have been brushed off. There was a language barrier, so it could have easily have been brushed off as (inaudible) — you know, 'What's this crazy thing they're talking about?' A series of police officers handled this really very well, and in the middle of the night, the raid that was put together to go in there was textbook. You could not have done it any better any place in the world, even including a military organization." (ABC, "Good Morning America," 8/1/97)
Mayor Giuliani Turned New York City's Finances Around
$2.3 Billion Dollar Budget Deficit Was Turned Into A Multi-Billion Dollar Surplus In FY 2001. (Steven Lee Myers, "A Deficit Revisited," The New York Times, 7/31/94; City Of New York Office Of The Comptroller, Fiscal Year 2001 Comprehensive Annual Report: Basic Financial Statements Part II-A, p. 14)
Over 20,000 Full-Time City-Funded City Jobs Cut (Nearly 20%) Excluding Teachers And Uniformed Police Officers. (City Of New York Office Of Management And Budget, The City Of New York Executive Budget Fiscal Year 2002 Message Of The Mayor: Appendix 5A, p. 276)
Giuliani Reduced Real Per Capita Government Spending By Unprecedented 6.82%. (New York City Gross City Product Data 1990-2005, City Of New York Office Of Comptroller; City Of New York Office Of Management And Budget, The City Of New York Executive Budget Fiscal Year 2000 Message Of The Mayor, p.3; City Of New York Office Of Management And Budget, The City Of New York Executive Budget Fiscal Year 2002 Message Of The Mayor, p. 3; Comptroller of the City of New York, Comprehensive Annual Financial Report of the Comptroller for the Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 2003, 10/31/03; U.S. Department of Labor Bureau of Labor Statistics Website, data.bls.gov, Accessed 5/3/07)
Reduced Government Spending As Percentage Of City Economy Every Year Except 2001. (New York City Gross City Product Data 1990-2005, City Of New York Office Of Comptroller; City Of New York Office Of Management And Budget, The City Of New York Executive Budget Fiscal Year 2000 Message Of The Mayor, p.3; City Of New York Office Of Management And Budget, The City Of New York Executive Budget Fiscal Year 2002 Message Of The Mayor, p. 3)
New York's Economy Grew Nearly Twice As Fast As Government Spending Did. (New York City Gross City Product Data 1990-2005, City Of New York Office Of Comptroller; City Of New York Office Of Management And Budget, The City Of New York Executive Budget Fiscal Year 2000 Message Of The Mayor, p.3; City Of New York Office Of Management And Budget, The City Of New York Executive Budget Fiscal Year 2002 Message Of The Mayor, p. 3)
$11.9 Billion In Savings By Controlling The Growth In Projected City-Funded Spending Alone (FY95-01). (City Of New York Office Of Management And Budget, The City Of New York Executive Budget Fiscal Year 2002 Budget Summary, p. 9; City Of New York Office Of Operations, Reengineering Municipal Services 1994-2001, p. 242)
Mayor Giuliani Achieved Results That People Didn't Think Were Possible
Gov. Haley Barbour (R-MS): "And For Those Of Us Who Would Go To New York During That Period Of Time, The Change Was Breathtaking. It Was A Tremendous, Tremendous Difference That You Could See Even If You Only Went Up There Every Now And Then." (Gov. Haley Barbour, Remarks, Pearl, MS, 9/4/07)
"As For Rudolph W. Giuliani, He Has Had A Remarkable Run As Mayor. He Has Accomplished Things That Some Thought Impossible: Cutting Crime." (James Ahearn, "Politically Correct But Unwarranted," The [Bergen County, NJ] Record, 12/30/01)
Stuart Rothenberg: "Remember, The Former New York Mayor Earned Raves For Cleaning Up New York City, Including The Once-Sleazy Times Square Area, An Accomplishment Once Considered Impossible By Most Americans, Certainly By Most New Yorkers." (Stuart Rothenberg, Op-Ed, "Is Rudy Likely To Be A Favorite Or A Flop?" Roll Call, 1/16/07)
Robert Novak: "Well, Nearly Everybody Agrees That He Accomplished The Impossible By Turning Around The Nation's Largest City …" (CNN's "Crossfire," 2/17/99)
U.S. ATTORNEY GIULIANI ATTACKED MAFIA, DRUG DEALERS AND CORRUPT POLITICIANS
Praise For Giuliani
"[I]n Areas Ranging From White-Collar Crime To The Mob, [Giuliani] Has Been The Most Effective Prosecutor In Recent Memory…" (Connie Bruck, "Rudolph Giuliani," The American Lawyer, 3/89)
"[Giuliani's] Office's Conviction Rate Of Better Than 90% — And Its Record Of Winning Many Big Ones — Speaks For Itself." (Stephen Adler et. al., "Litigator's Legacy," The Wall Street Journal, 1/11/89)
NY1's Andrew Kirtzman: "He Was A Hero In The Eyes Of People For Fighting Corruption In Politics, Organized Crime, Insider Trading On Wall Street. He Was The White Knight." (MSNBC's "Headliners & Legends," 11/17/01)
RICO Statute Author Praised Giuliani's Innovative Use Of RICO To Prosecute Mob. "[N]otre Dame Law School professor G. Robert Blakey, who drafted the RICO statue, says that as early as 1980 he gave a lecture to the FBI suggesting a RICO case against the mob. But Blakey says, 'If Rudy wants to claim credit, I say, give it to him. Because it wouldn't have happened without him.'" (Connie Bruck, "Rudolph Giuliani," The American Lawyer, 3/89)
New York State Commission On Judicial Conduct Administrator Gerald Stern Called Giuliani "Innovative" And An "Excellent U.S. Attorney." "'Over all, he's been an excellent U.S. Attorney,' said Gerald Stern, who as administrator of the State Commission on Judicial Conduct has complained about Mr. Giuliani's public disclosures regarding criminal defendants. 'He's intelligent, innovative, hard-working and has done a fine job.'" (Laura Mansnerus, "Giuliani: The Public Record Of A Highly Public Prosecutor," The New York Times, 11/8/87)
Giuliani Took On The Mob
18 Members Of New York And Sicilian Mafia Were Convicted For Cocaine And Heroin Smuggling In "Pizza Connection" Case. "Eighteen men were convicted today of operating an international heroin and cocaine ring that distributed more than $1.6 billion in drugs through pizza parlors in the Northeast and Midwest. The convictions of the men, who include former leaders of the Sicilian Mafia and the New York-based Bonnano crime family, follow the convictions late last year of the members of a ruling Mafia commission. 'It is a tremendous victory in the effort to crush the Mafia,' U.S. Attorney Rudolph W. Giuliani said. 'Five years ago nobody would have thought it possible to convict the head of the Sicilian Mafia and the head of a major part of an American Mafia family.' He added, 'The impact on the Mafia of these cases has been devastating. If this continues, there's not going to be a Mafia.'" (Margot Hornblower, "18 Guilty In 'Pizza Connection' Trial," The Washington Post, 3/3/87)
· Under Giuliani's Leadership, U.S. Cooperation With Italian Authorities On "Pizza Connection" Case Was "Fabulous And Unprecedented." "In the so-called 'pizza connection' case in the Southern District, which includes Manhattan, the Bronx and seven upstate counties, 22 defendants are accused of operating a Mafia-connected drug ring that smuggled at least $1.65 billion in heroin from Sicily. A defense attorney in the 'pizza connection' case said the quality of the cooperation marshaled by American and Italian authorities in that and other recent cases he was familiar with was 'fabulous and unprecedented.' 'Italy and the United States have been talking cooperation for a decade,' he said, 'but now they're doing it, and it's going to make a difference. …'" (M. A. Farber, "U.S.-Italian Teamwork Bringing Organized-Crime Chiefs To Trial," The New York Times, 10/18/85)
Eight Organized-Crime Leaders Were Convicted As Members Of "National Ruling Commission Of Mafia Families," Receiving Sentences Of 40 To 100 Years. "Eight organized-crime leaders were convicted last November as members of a national ruling commission of Mafia families that prosecutors said coordinated activities, resolved disputes and sometimes ordered executions. As a Justice Department official, Mr. Giuliani had helped devise the strategy of prosecuting a Mafia directorate; this case was the major result. The defendants, who for the most part did not deny the existence of a Mafia or a commission, represented the Colombo, Genovese, Lucchese and Bonanno families. They received sentences of 40 to 100 years." (Laura Mansnerus, "Giuliani: The Public Record Of A Highly Public Prosecutor," The New York Times, 11/8/87)
History Channel's Bruce Cutler: "Of All Of The Mafia Targets That An FBI Man Could Dream Of, There Is None Higher Than The Commission: The Senate, House And Supreme Court Of The American Mob." (History Channel's "Mouthpiece," 6/03)
Giuliani's Office Had Series Of "Sweeping" Victories Against Mafia. "Ending a 17-month racketeering trial, a Federal jury yesterday convicted seven men of being members or associates of a murderous crew of the Gambino crime family that operated out of a Brooklyn apartment. The verdict in Federal District Court in Manhattan gave prosecutors a sweeping victory in the second of two trials stemming from a 1984 indictment that originally included charges against the man prosecutors said was then chief of the Gambino family, Paul Castellano, who was killed in 1985 … In its verdict, which came in the 13th day of deliberations, the jury found the defendants guilty of all the charges presented in a 21-count indictment. … The trial, which included testimony by 207 witnesses for the Government, was the last of a series of large criminal cases begun by former United States Attorney Rudolph W. Giuliani against people prosecutors have called major figures in the Mafia." (William Glaberson, "Seven Guilty In Racket Case At Mob Trial," The New York Times, 6/29/89)
Giuliani Took Federal Drug Crackdown To The Streets
Giuliani Focused On Both International And Local Street-Level Drug Cases. "Right after coming into office, Giuliani announced a Federal 'sweep' to rid Manhattan's Lower East Side streets of small-time drug dealers. Most Federal prosecutors believe their limited resources for drug enforcement should be concentrated on international cases. They leave the $40 'busts' to local authorities. Not Giuliani. He said his office could do both." (Michael Winerip, "High-Profile Prosecutor," The New York Times, 6/9/85)
Giuliani Even Went Undercover To Buy Crack To Show How Easy It Was To Purchase. "One thing his predecessors did not do is prosecute street-level drug cases. But Mr. Giuliani volunteered his office in a city police drive to rid the Lower East Side of its conspicuous drug commerce – an initiative that was not especially popular in the office or among defense lawyers. Last year Mr. Giuliani and Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato, in sunglasses and funny clothes, made a crack buy on 160th Street – to illustrate, they said, how easy it was." (Laura Mansnerus, "Giuliani: The Public Record Of A Highly Public Prosecutor," The New York Times, 11/8/87)
Residents Cheered When Giuliani Evicted Drug Dealers From Housing Projects. "Randy Mastro, a former federal prosecutor who became one of Giuliani's top mayoral aides, said one of Giuliani's achievements included using federal forfeiture laws to evict drug dealers from low-cost rental apartments in housing projects. 'When agents showed up, the other residents of those projects literally stood and cheered,' he said." (Larry Neumeister, "Giuliani Was Hard-Charging Prosecutor," The Associated Press, 4/9/07)
Then-Mayor Ed Koch Praised Giuliani's "Federal Day" Initiative To Bust Street-Level Crimes As More Effective Than State Efforts. "Mr. Koch said that even criminals knew they were likely to escape severe punishment in state courts. He said this was demonstrated when the United States Attorney in Manhattan, Rudolph W. Giuliani, agreed to bring Federal rather than state charges against drug dealers picked up in sweeps on one day each week. 'When a drug pusher is caught,' Mr. Koch said, 'he asks, is this the Federal day. And if the cop says, yes, this is the Federal day, the drug pushers in many cases try to break away and run because they know they are going to jail. And if it is state day, there is no resistance.' According to city police officials, Federal judges impose heavier sentences than state judges in drug cases." (Josh Barbanel, "Koch Recommends Stiffer Penalties And More Prisons," The New York Times, 2/15/85)
Giuliani Cracked Down On Public Corruption
Giuliani Prosecuted Democratic Party Boss Stan Friedman And Three Others For Racketeering And Mail Fraud In "Largest New York Corruption Trial In Decades." "A New York City Democratic boss and three co-defendants were convicted today of racketeering and conspiracy for corrupting the city's Parking Violations Bureau through six years of bribery. The 12-member federal jury deliberated four days before returning the verdict against Bronx party leader Stanley Friedman and the others in what was the largest New York corruption trial in decades. The four were accused of turning the [Parking Violations Bureau] into their 'private gold mine' through a pattern of bribery from 1979 to 1985. Friedman, who sat impassively as the verdicts were read, was also convicted of two counts of mail fraud. Michael Lazar, former city transportation head, was also convicted of two counts of mail fraud; ex-PVB director Lester Shafran was convicted of two counts of mail fraud; and businessman Marvin Kaplan was convicted of one count of mail fraud and perjury for lying before the Securities and Exchange Commission. … The trial began Sept. 22, with U.S. Attorney Rudolph Giuliani … accusing Friedman of sitting on a corrupt 'board of directors' which converted the PVB into 'an enterprise for illegal plunder.'" (Larry McShane, "Bronx Democratic Boss, Others Guilty In Corruption Trial," The Associated Press, 11/25/86)
Following Parking Violations Bureau Convictions, Nine More Public Officials In New York City Either Resigned Or Came Under Indictment. Frontline's Mark Obenhaus: "The revelation that officials as powerful as Donald Manes and Stanley Freidman were corrupt has shaken public confidence in New York City government. The scandal has spawned a wrath of other investigations. During 1986 and 1987, the Commissioners of Hospitals, Taxis, Transportation, Cultural Affairs, Business Development, two members of the City Planning Commission, a borough president and a United States Congressman all resigned or were under indictment." (PBS's "Frontline," 6/23/87)
Giuliani Unraveled Wedtech Scandal, Where Executives Engaged In Massive Military-Contract Fraud, Leading To Guilty Verdict For Former U.S. Rep. Mario Biaggi (D-NY). "Former congressman Mario Biaggi (D-N.Y.), sobbing and still protesting his innocence, was sentenced today to eight years in federal prison for extorting payoffs from Wedtech Corp. in return for his political influence. U.S. District Court Judge Constance Baker Motley said she would have given the 71-year-old Biaggi a 'substantially longer' prison term if it were not for his age and poor health. She also fined him $242,000 and ordered him to start serving his sentence Jan. 9 …" (George Lardner Jr., "Biaggi Gets Eight-Year Sentence," The Washington Post, 11/19/88)
Giuliani Also Obtained Guilty Pleas From Four Wedtech Executives, Who Implicated Over A Dozen Public Officials For Illegal Payoff Public Corruption Scheme. "[P]rosecutors have described as a wide set of illegal payoffs made by Wedtech executives as the company grew from a small machine shop to a $100-million-a-year military contractor, largely through contracts obtained without competitive bidding. So far, four top former executives of the company are said to have implicated more than a dozen public figures … The former Wedtech officials have pleaded guilty to Federal charges brought by Mr. Giuliani and have agreed to cooperate with investigators in exchange for leniency. They have also agreed to plead guilty to state charges in Manhattan and the Bronx." (Mark A. Uhlig, "Two Accused Of Extorting From Wedtech," The New York Times, 1/30/88)
AS ASSOCIATE ATTORNEY GENERAL, GIULIANI GOT RESULTS
John Hinckley Case
After Being Notified Of Attempted Assassination Of President Reagan, Giuliani Immediately Took Charge And Coordinated Detention Facilities And Physical Security Of John Hinckley. (Office of the Associate Attorney General, "Hinckley Sequence Of Events," U.S. Department of Justice)
As Associate Attorney General Designate, Giuliani Oversaw Criminal Investigation Of John Hinckley. "Associate Attorney General designate Rudolph W. Giuliani, who is directing the investigation, would say only that thus far the evidence indicated Mr. Hinckley acted alone. 'There is no suggestion of a conspiracy thus far,' Mr. Giuliani said. 'The F.B.I. is investigating that possibility along with all others.' Government investigators are wary of repeating the history of other assassination inquiries, notably the Warren Commission investigation into the slaying of President Kennedy, which has been followed by widespread suspicions of conspiracy and complaints of slipshod methods." ("Agents Tracing Hinckley's Path Find A Shift To Violent Emotion," The New York Times, 4/5/81)
Attorney General William French Smith Appointed Giuliani DOJ's Spokesman With Regard To The Criminal Investigation Against John Hinckley. (Office of the Associate Attorney General, "Hinckley Sequence Of Events," U.S. Department of Justice)
Following Hinckley Verdict, Giuliani Said DOJ Wanted To "Substantially Narrow" The Insanity Defense. "The administration is supporting legislation which, in the words of Associate Attorney General Rudolph Giuliani, would 'substantially narrow' that defense. Currently, a defendant can present a defense to a jury that he was either too ill to determine right from wrong or too ill to conform his conduct to what was right. Giuliani said the administration now supports legislation which would eliminate that second insanity defense. Giuliani said, 'The vast majority of federal insanity pleas are like Hinckley's where it is not a case of telling right from wrong but rather of conforming behavior.'" (Michael Sniffen, "Attorney General Seeks To Plug 'Fatal Flaws' In The Law," The Associated Press, 6/22/82)
Associate Attorney General Giuliani Recommended The Congress Should Enact Legislation To Commit Dangerously Disturbed Defendants Who Are Not Convicted. Giuliani: "The lack of such a commitment procedure in the federal system creates the very real potential that the public will not be adequately protected from a dangerously insane defendant who is acquitted at trial." (Associate Attorney General Rudolph Giuliani, Statement Before The National Commission On The Insanity Defense, Arlington, VA, 10/27/82)
Narcotics Trafficking
Giuliani Among "Chief Strategists" Of Reagan Administration's Effort Against Narcotics Trafficking. "At the Justice Department, Mr. Giuliani has been highly visible, particularly as one of the chief strategists of the Reagan Administration's stepped-up effort to combat narcotics trafficking. He was instrumental in devising the Reagan budget request of $130 million granted by Congress last year to finance 12 new investigative drug task forces across the nation." (Jane Perlez, "Giuliani Willing To Accept U.S. Attorney Job In State," The New York Times, 3/10/83)
Giuliani Realized Increased Sophistication Among International Drug Traffickers Required New Emphasis On Drug Enforcement Policies. Giuliani: "[T]he international network of drug traffickers is far more sophisticated than ever before. Sales of illicit drugs … has attracted organized crime leaders, shrewd businessmen and political leaders. Large criminal organizations can respond to isolated law enforcement efforts simply by changing transportation routes or sources of supply … In short, increasing criminal sophistication requires an equally sophisticated law enforcement organization with a world-wide intelligence, enforcement and diplomatic capability." (Associate Attorney General Rudolph Giuliani And Special Assistant To The Attorney General Hank Habict, Memo To Attorney General William French Smith And Deputy Attorney General Edward Schmults, 5/7/81)
"[Giuliani] Has Been The Chief Designer Of The Expansion Of The Federal Bureau Of Investigation In Narcotics Enforcement And The Creation Of 12 Drug-Enforcement Task Forces." ("Man In The News; Nominee For U.S. Attorney," The New York Times, 4/13/83)
Violent Crime
Giuliani Oversaw Creation Of Violent Crime Committee. "The following sequence of steps is recommended: 1. Authorize us to select an initial staff of five Department employees – Criminal Division, FBI, DEA being crucial – to prepare under the supervision of Messrs. Giuliani and Jensen a draft agenda and background material for the Committee…" (Associate Attorney General Rudolph Giuliani And D. Lowell Jensen, Memo To Attorney General William French Smith, 2/24/81)
Jeffery Harris, Giuliani's Deputy Associate Attorney General, Served As Executive Director Of The Attorney General's Task Force On Violent Crime. ("Phase 1 Recommendations," Attorney General's Task Force On Violent Crime, p.ii)
The Attorney General's Task Force On Violent Crime Made Numerous Recommendations On Ways To Combat Violent Crime, With An Emphasis On Coordination Between State, Federal And Local Law Enforcement Agencies. (Special Assistant To The Associate Attorney General Fred Friedman, Memo To Associate Attorney General Rudy Giuliani, 7/22/81)
By The End Of September 1981, Attorney General Smith Has Implemented Two-Thirds Of Task Force's Recommendations And Was Working On Implementation Of The Remainders. (Associate Attorney General Rudy Giuliani, Memo To Counsel To President Reagan Fred Fielding, 9/25/81)
  