
    Pool Reports by Madeleine Ngo, The New York Times 



Sent:
Reports:




November 8, 202108:15

Travel pool report #1 — waiting for departure
Happy Monday everyone. Pool has been swept and we're waiting at Gordons Pond for President Biden and First Lady Jill Biden's departure from Rehoboth Beach, Del., which is scheduled for 8:45 a.m.



November 8, 202108:41

Travel pool report #2 — departure from Rehoboth Beach 
POTUS and FLOTUS boarded Marine One at 8:35 a.m. and it was wheels up for the White House at 8:40 a.m. The president waved but did not approach the pool for questions.
From the White House —
Returning to the White House with the President and the First Lady:Anthony Bernal, Assistant to the President & Advisor to the First LadyLiz Sherwood-Randall, Assistant to the President & Homeland Security Advisor & Deputy National Security AdvisorAshley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office Operations




 
Pool Reports below by Melissa Nann Burke, The Detroit News 



Sent:
Reports:




November 8, 202109:39

In-town pool report #1: Arrival 
Good morning from the White House.
Marine One landed at 9:30 a.m. on the south lawn.
POTUS and FLOTUS walked into the White House holding hands without stopping to answer questions.
He was asked about the Fed chair, when he will sign the BIF, momentum for Build Back Better. He waved and said something inaudible to pool.
Moments later POTUS walked into the Oval around 9:36 a.m.



November 8, 202109:53

In-town pool report #2: Lunch lid and arrival comment
After listening back to audio from the South Lawn, it is very hard to hear.
But when asked about calling Virginia Gov.-elect Glenn Youngkin, the president seems to have said over his shoulder something like, "I tried to call him."
The White House has called a lunch lid until 1 p.m.



November 8, 202113:06

In-town pool report #3: two-minute warning for briefing 
Two-minute warning at 1:05 pm for press briefing with Karine Jean-Pierre and DOT Secretary Pete Buttigieg.



November 8, 202114:16

In-town pool report #4: briefing ends 
Briefing started at 1:07 and ended at 2:14 p.m.



November 8, 202115:12

In -town pool report #5: Bucks event starting soon 
After a delay, pool is on the South Lawn for a ceremony honoring the Milwaukee Bucks, who won the NBA championship in July — their first championship since 1971.
Audience is seated in white chairs and there's a large gold trophy with a basketball on top on display next to the lectern.
I'm assuming the event will be streamed here: https://www.whitehouse.gov/live/
More to come.



November 8, 202116:05

in-town pool report #6: quote from Biden on BBB
At end of Bucks event, NBC's Kelly O'Donnell asked POTUS about momentum for Build Back Better, and Biden responded:
"It's going to be a tough fight. It ain't over yet, as the expression goes, but I feel good, and I think people are beginning to realize it's important to get it done."
Asked if there's any lessons from what he just went through with BIF: "None I didn't already know."
Also, the Milwaukee Bucks are at the sticks now for anyone interested.
More to come soon from the Bucks event.



November 8, 202116:23

In-town report #7: travel/photo lid 
The White House called a travel/photo lid at 4:21 p.m.



November 8, 202116:46

In-town report #8: bucks event color
Team and their staff entered at about 3:29 p.m. to applause, filling the risers behind the lecturn. POTUS entered a couple minutes later accompanied by team co-owner Marc Lasry and player Giannis Antetokounmpo.
POTUS began speaking at 3:32 p.m., and congratulated the team for their win and praised them for being unified: "That's who we are as a nation." He spoke for about 10 minutes and also congratulated former team owner, former Sen. Herb Kohl of Wisconsin.
"To all the players, that's what you represent for so many people -- pride and decency," Biden said. "You represented yourself and your families your organizations and a great American city by staying true to who you are."
Biden gave a tribute to Bucks player Donte DiVincenzo who grew up in Newark, Delaware, and was the 2015 Delaware High School Boys Basketball Player of the Year. Biden also spoke about Antetokounmpo, a two-time NBA MVP, who helped lead the Bucks to the championship.
"What makes it even more special is you won the title with your brother, who was here today and you joined another brother already with a ring. What a hell of a family. I tell you what, I think you won the gene pool," Biden said.
The president also gave a shout out to "dear friends" Ted and Mary Kellner, philanthropists, "who are both responsible for my being here." He said Kellner and others helped finance the end of his 1972 Senate campaign when he was running out of money to keep ads on their air. "I'm indebted to them now."
Team co-owner Lasry also spoke, saying he hopes the team will come back to the White House for the next four years. The team presented the president with a green Bucks jersey that said "Biden." The band played a version "We are the Champions" as the team took a photo with POTUS.
Spotted in the front row - Second Gentleman Doug Emhoff. Event lasted about 20 min.
From the White House:
Members of the Milwaukee Bucks visiting the White House today include:
Peter Feigin, PresidentBarry Baum, Chief Communications OfficerMarc Lasry, OwnerWes Edens, OwnerMike Fascitelli, OwnerAlex Lasry, Senior Vice PresidentMike Budenholzer, CoachJon Horst, General ManagerGiannis Antetokounmpo, PlayerJrue Holiday, PlayerBrook Lopez, PlayerDonte DiVincenzo, Player



November 8, 202120:09

Post-lid note from WH 
From the White House:
Today, President Biden sat down for an interview with Local 12 in Cincinnati to talk about how the Bipartisan Infrastructure Deal would positively impact the region. You can view the interview here:  https://local12.com/news/local/local-12-talks-with-president-joe-biden-one-on-one-about-infrastructure-bill-cincinnati-local-12-kyle-inskeep-wkrc




  