
    DES MOINES, IA – After a strong week spent highlighting Hillary's plan to address America's energy and environmental challenges, the Clinton campaign today launched a new ad emphasizing Hillary's commitment to lead our country toward energy independence.
The new 30-second spot, entitled, "Energy Independence," features Hillary discussing her plans to end our dependence on foreign oil, create millions of jobs by investing in clean and renewable energy, and end tax subsidies for oil companies.
[Watch the ad]: http://www.hillaryclinton.com/IAenergyad
During a speech in Newton, Iowa on Monday, Hillary unveiled her energy plan, discussing the details of her plan to dramatically increase biofuels production in an effort to tackle our energy and climate challenges. Boosting biofuels production is one of the key goals of Hillary's energy plan, which would increase production of corn ethanol, cellulosic ethanol, biodiesel and other biofuels to 36 billion gallons by 2022 and 60 billion gallons by 2030.
By 2050, Hillary's plan would reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 80% from 1990 levels to avoid the worst effects of global warming, and cut foreign oil imports by two-thirds from 2030 projected levels, more than 10 million barrels per day and catalyze a thriving new clean energy industry.
Hillary would transform our economy from carbon-based to clean and energy efficient, jumpstarting research and development by investing $15 billion annually in basic energy research and development, and deployment of clean energy technology. She would also spur the green building industry by funding the retrofitting and modernization of 20 million low-income homes and taking concrete steps to reduce electricity consumption, including enacting strict appliance efficiency standards and phasing out incandescent light bulbs. Read more about Hillary's plan to power America's future.
Following is the script for the ad:
"Energy Independence"
TV:30
CLINTON: We could create millions of new jobs if we got serious about dealing with energy efficiency, new forms of energy. That's what I will do.
CLINTON: I will create a Strategic Energy Fund that will put $50 billion to work with wind and solar and biofuels. And help us move away from our dependence on foreign oil.
CLINTON: And where would I get the money?
CLINTON: I would take the tax subsidies away from the oil companies.
CLINTON: Let's do it together.
ANNCR: If you're ready for change, she's ready to lead.
CLINTON: I'm Hillary Clinton and I approved this message.
  