
    (SAN FRANCISCO, November 11, 2019) — Yesterday, Democratic presidential candidate Tom Steyer took questions from Iowans during a live televised CNN Presidential Town Hall at Grinnell College. While engaging with Iowa voters, Steyer got the opportunity to share his vision of progressive change. Below are the highlights, with all video clips provided by CNN.
Steyer made clear that his number one priority as president will be combatting our climate crisis. Further, he publicly called for all campaigns running in the race for the Democratic nomination to join him in only flying commercial flights, as a way to show their willingness to "walk the walk" and do their part to curb their carbon footprint.
His long history of backing advocacy efforts in support of renewable energy and pushing back against fossil fuel and oil companies are rooted in his own personal duty to preserve our planet for the next generation.
When talking about how his faith informs his actions, Steyer said that after having kids, going to church every Sunday was a space for him to "find his values and understand, in a broad sense, the purpose of being here."
Steyer also touched on his activism in leading the Need to Impeach movement. "I'm not running for president to impeach Donald Trump — I'm running for president to put power back in the hands of the American people," said Steyer. "That's what this work is all about."
Steyer: "I've led the charge for clean energy across the country at the ballot box... I've worked to stop pipelines. I've worked to stop fossil fuel plants. We're talking about the future, but you can look at my history and know that this is something that is an absolutely top priority for me."
CNN – 11/10/19
By Gregory Krieg and Kate Sullivan
"Businessman Tom Steyer began his Sunday CNN night town hall in Iowa by challenging fellow billionaire Michael Bloomberg, who appears poised to join the Democratic presidential primary, to support a wealth tax. Steyer also promised immediate action to combat the climate crisis, promising to invoke "emergency powers" on the first day of his presidency as a means of tackling the issue."
VIDEO: "Unless Mr. Bloomberg is willing to accept a wealth tax, I don't believe he can be an appropriate nominee for the Democratic Party" 
CNN – 11/10/19
"Democratic presidential candidate Tom Steyer emphatically explained his support for a wealth tax and why Michael Bloomberg would also need to if he were to run for president."
Steyer: ".. [my parents] felt so lucky to be Americans that they felt, if you're going to be a good American you're going to give as much back to the country" 
CNN – 11/10/19
By Veronica Rocha
"Steyer's mother was a teacher and his father was a lawyer who he said ended up prosecuting Nazis in Nuremberg... Steyer said he took their life lessons and applied them to his own future. The father of four said he wanted to earn enough money to take care of his family but he also wanted to have a meaningful life."
Steyer: "[On climate], we're going to have to walk the walk all the way along the way..." 
CNBC – 11/11/19
By Tom Huddleston Jr.
"Tom Steyer can certainly afford to fly private...But Democratic candidate Steyer is also an outspoken supporter of environmental issues who has made tackling climate change a key component of his 2020 presidential campaign and says flying private sends the wrong message."
Steyer: "I don't fly private. I hope nobody else running for the Democratic nomination will choose to fly private,"
New York Post – 11/10/19
By Carl Campanile
"Tom Steyer, who's made fighting climate change a cornerstone of his presidential campaign...[called] on his Democratic rivals to not use private jets."
Steyer: "Not only is the income so unjust, so undemocratic and so unfair — the distribution of incomes — the distribution of wealth across society is an absolute scandal" 
Radio Iowa – 11/11/19
By O. Kay Henderson
"Tom Steyer says he's ready to do what's politically inconvenient as president and seek constitutional changes that limit the time politicians can spend in congress to 12 years. He'd also ban corporate spending in politics." 
  