
    In recent weeks I have emphasized the commitment of this Nation to taking every step necessary to end the vicious threat of terror both here and abroad, a trend not limited to any one area of the world or to any one complex of problems. On September 25, Secretary of State Rogers also expressed to the United Nations the profound concern of the American people over the growing menace of international terrorism. On that same day, I further emphasized our deep feelings about this matter by establishing a Cabinet Committee to Combat Terrorism.
I am particularly pleased therefore to be able to sign the instrument of ratification of an international convention today which will help combat the menace of terrorism around the world: the Montreal Sabotage Convention. This convention requires the extradition or prosecution of any persons who perpetrate attacks of sabotage and violence against international civil aviation.
A civilized society cannot tolerate terrorism. Any action which makes a diplomat, a government official, or an innocent citizen a pawn in a politically motivated dispute undermines the safety of every other person. A peaceful, stable world requires that all nations vigorously join in condemning and prosecuting such acts and in preventing their further occurrence.
This convention and the bill I signed last Tuesday, H.R. 15883, making it a Federal crime for any person to harass, assault, kidnap, or murder a foreign official in the United States, are a part of our on-going efforts to combat terrorism.
In this connection the Cabinet Committee to Combat Terrorism has already taken steps to insure that stricter controls are placed on visa applications and visa extensions of possible terrorists. It has suspended the regulations which allowed one to transit the United States without a visa. And it has set up a series of working groups to insure government-wide cooperation in the sharing of intelligence and to provide for a coordinated response to any terrorist attack.
The United Nations and the International Civil Aviation Organization now have before them three additional proposals which, if adopted, would further strengthen the hands of all nations in dealing with the scourge of terrorism. In my view these measures should be acted upon promptly.
First, a draft convention providing for the prosecution or extradition of persons who attack or kidnap foreign officials.
Second, a convention providing for the suspension of air service to countries which fail to punish or extradite hijackers or saboteurs of civil aircraft.
Third, a new convention proposed by the United States which would require the prosecution or extradition of any person who seriously injures, kidnaps, or kills innocent civilians in a foreign state for the purpose of blackmailing any state or international organization.
The Montreal Sabotage Convention is an important step in the continuing battle against terrorism. But the other measures that we are supporting in the United Nations and in the International Civil Aviation Organization are also essential if we are to establish a world in which men and nations can deal with one another without fear of these irrational and despicable acts of terrorism.
  