
    The President announced today that a distinguished, broadly representative group of American citizens will serve as public members of the United States delegation to the third CSCE followup meeting, chaired by Ambassador Warren Zimmermann. The individuals are:
Morris Abram, Conference of Presidents of Major American Jewish Organizations;
Robert Bernstein, U.S. Helsinki Watch Committee;
James W. Cicconi, Akin, Gump, Strauss, Hauer and Feld;
Rita E. Hauser, Interparliamentary Group for Human Rights in the Soviet Union;
Malcolm Hoenlein, Jewish Community Relations of New York;
William Korey, B'nai B'rith;
Julian Kulas, Ukrainian Congress Committee;
Aloysius Mazewski, Polish American Congress; Michael Novak, American Enterprise Institute;
Olgerts Parleyskis, World Federation of Free Latvians;
Dennis Prager, Union of Councils for Soviet Jews;
John W. Riehm, Freedom House;
Bayard Rustin, A. Philip Randolf Educational Fund;
Steven M. Umin, Williams and Connolly;
W. Bruce Weinrod, The Heritage Foundation.
The United States, Canada, and the 33 other states of Eastern and Western Europe which participate in the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE) are meeting in Vienna as of November 4 to discuss the full range of issues covered by the 1975 Helsinki Final Act: human rights, economic relations, and security.
We welcome the willingness of these Americans to serve on the U.S. delegation. Their presence will help demonstrate the desire shared by all Americans for improved Soviet and East European adherence to the human rights and other commitments of the Helsinki Final Act. The public members will be an invaluable source of expertise and a means of staying in close touch with interested groups at home as the conference progresses. In addition to calling on the talents of this outstanding group, Ambassador Zimmermann will work closely with the many private individuals and nongovernmental organizations from the United States who are interested in CSCE and who plan activities and visits in connection with the Vienna meeting.
  