
    Mclean, VA - Today on the steps of the State House in Columbia, SC, surrounded by numerous veterans, Senator Fred Thompson was joined by Major General James Livingston and Lieutenant Colonel Joe Repya to launch Veterans for Fred Thompson.
Major General James Livingston, a 33 year veteran of the United States Marine Corps, will serve as the National Co-Chair of Veterans for Fred Thompson. On May 2, 1968, while serving as the Commanding Officer, Company E, 2nd Battalion, 4th Marines, he distinguished himself above and beyond the call of duty in action against enemy forces and earned the Congressional Medal of Honor. In March 1975, he returned to Vietnam for his third tour and served as the Operations Officer for the Vietnam evacuation operations which included the evacuation of Saigon. During Operations Desert Shield and Desert Storm, General Livingston commanded the Marine Corps Air Ground Combat Center, 29 Palms, California, and developed the Desert Warfare Training Program. In July 1992 he assumed command of the newly created Marine Reserve Force, and continued through its reorganization in October 1994 under its new title, Marine Forces Reserve. His other decorations include: Distinguished Service Medal; Silver Star Medal; Defense Superior Service Medal; Bronze Star Medal; Purple Heart, Third Award.
"I am proud to support Senator Fred Thompson," said Major General James Livingston. "He will bring to the White House a long record of support for our armed forces and veterans, coupled with a commitment to improving the effectiveness and accountability of the federal government. This is critical if we are to rebuild the level of trust and confidence that our military personnel and their families have in the Department of Defense and the Department of Veterans Affairs."
Lieutenant Colonel Joe Repya will serve as National Executive Director for Veterans for Fred Thompson. Lieutenant Colonel Repya served 28 years in the United States Army from 1969-1998. He was a combat infantry officer in Vietnam from 1970-1971 as well as a combat helicopter pilot in Desert Storm between 1990-1991. Immediately following September 11, 2001, Lieutenant Colonel Repya was one of 12,000 retired US Army veterans to volunteer for retiree recall and he was one of 350 who were recalled to active duty for Operation Iraqi Freedom. At 58 years old, he returned to active duty in 2004 with the 101st Airborne Division. Lieutenant Colonel Repya served as Minnesota Co-Chair and National Spokesperson for Veterans for Bush-Cheney 2004.
"If I have learned anything in my military and civilian life, it is that a good indication of someone's future performance is their past performance," said Lieutenant Colonel Repya. "There is only one Republican Presidential Candidate that has been constantly true to the principles of strong national defense, pro-life, pro traditional marriages, pro second amendment, smaller government and strong immigration reform. So it is a personal honor to join the team that will elect the 44th President of the United States, Fred Thompson."
"I am so honored to have the support of Major General Livingston and Lieutenant Colonel Repya," said Senator Fred Thompson. "These individuals have dedicated their lives to defending America and fighting for freedom throughout the world, and I am pleased to have their support. I want to thank all of the veterans joining this coalition for their remarkable service to this great nation. I am committed to ensuring that all of our nation's veterans receive the very best, because their sacrifice demands no less."
Veterans For Fred Thompson Coalition includes:
National Steering Committee
General Carl Stiner , Co-Chair
Major General James Livingston , Medal Honor Recipient, Co-Chair
Lieutenant Colonel Joseph Repya , Executive Director
Lieutenant General James Terry Scott
Brigadier General John C. "Doc" Bahnsen
Captain John Dowd
Captain James H. Warner
Florida
Colonel Clay Ford (State Representative), Co-Chair
Sergeant Garrett Richter (State Representative), Co-Chair
Aviation Ordnance Man, 2nd Class Larry Cretul (State Representative), Co-Chair
Georgia
Major William (Bill) Russell Makepeace, IV , Chairman
Iowa
Tech Sergeant Royd Chambers (State Representative), Chairman
New Hampshire
Commander David J. Kenney , Chairman
Lieutenant Colonel Eugene Pawlik , Co-Chair
South Carolina
Major General James Livingston , Honorary Chair
Colonel Richard Bagwell , Co-Chair
Major Robbie Clapper , Co-Chair
Corporal Bob Farris , Co-Chair
Tennessee
Major General William B. Raines , Co-Chair
Major General Jackie "Dan" Wood , Co-Chair
Rear Admiral Jerry Breast, Co-Chair
Brigadier General Jeremiah J. Brophy , Co-Chair
Brigadier General Wendell Gilbert , Co-Chair
Captain David Watts , Co-Chair
Colonel Theodore C. Fox , Co-Chair
Colonel Dan Lindsey , Co-Chair
Lieutenant Colonel Dolores Gresham (State Representative), Co-Chair
Major Van Hilleary (United States Congressman), Co-Chair
Captain Sam Bartholomew , Co-Chair
Major Jim Tully , Co-Chair
Sergeant Gerald McCormick (State Representative), Co-Chair
Sergeant Rusty Crowe (State Representative), Co-Chair
Specialist Judd Matheny (State Representative), Co-Chair
Specialist Charles Sargent , Co-Chair
Texas
Lieutenant General James Terry Scott , Chair

West Virginia
Brigadier General John C. "Doc" Bahnsen , Chair
Senior Airman Charles Bolen , Co-Chair
First Class Petty Officer Russ Weeks , Co-Chair
  