
    
  ENDORSEMENT: WEST VIRGINIA STATE SENATORS RYAN FERNS AND DANIEL HALL, DELEGATES ROGER HANSHAW AND MATT ROHRBACH THINK JOHN KASICH SHOULD BE PRESIDENT

Senators Ferns and Hall to serve as Kasich for America's West Virginia State Co-Chairs
Delegates Hanshaw and Rohrbach named to State Leadership Team
Today, West Virginia State Senators Ryan Ferns and Daniel Hall and Delegates Roger Hanshaw and Matt Rohrbach endorsed Ohio Governor John Kasich for President. Senators Ferns and Hall will serve as Co-Chairs of Kasich for America's West Virginia Team, while Delegates Hanshaw and Rohrbach have been named to the State Leadership Team.
West Virginia State Senator Ryan Ferns was elected in 2014 after serving two terms in the West Virginia House of Delegates. Sen. Ferns serves as Chair of the Senate Health and Human Resources Committee, and as Vice Chair of the Economic Development, the Judiciary and the Labor Committees. Last session, he was the lead sponsor of a resolution calling for an Article V Convention to pass a federal balanced budget amendment, and in February, he welcomed Gov. Kasich to the West Virginia capital to strategize on the amendment.
Said Sen. Ferns, "No one has the level of commitment to balancing our federal budget as Governor Kasich. He is the only candidate in this race who has actually helped balance it, and he is the only candidate in this race who has laid out a plan for doing it again over the next eight years. I am proud to endorse him for President, and I am confident that he will be successful in West Virginia."
State Senator Daniel Hall has served in the legislature since 2008, serving two terms in the House of Delegates before voters elected him to the State Senate in 2012. He is part of Senate Leadership, serving as Senate Majority Whip, and is Chair of the Senate Agriculture and Rural Development Committee, as well as the Senate Labor Committee.
Said Senator Hall, "Coming from Ohio, Gov. Kasich understands the need for low-cost, reliable energy, and the importance of promoting all energy sources, including coal. Energy has a massive impact on our nation's economy and national security, and in West Virginia, coal is a critical part of our lives. Gov. Kasich's pursuit of an all-of-the-above energy strategy is good for West Virginia, and it's good for our nation."
Said Kasich, "I am incredibly proud of the strong team we're putting together in West Virginia. They are experienced, respected, and understand what matters to the people of their state. I am grateful for their support, and I look forward to working with them to address the issues facing our nation."
  