
    By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
Wherever Americans are, there are the arts. The arts are central to human expression. The arts enlighten us and please us. America has long loved the arts, and we study, practice, appreciate, and patronize them in our theatres, museums, galleries, schools, and communities.
We also generously support the arts and desire to make them as widely available as possible. A typically American consortium-informal and effective—of individuals, corporations, foundations, and taxpayers provides financial support to artists to augment revenues raised directly from patrons.
It is most fitting that we take time to celebrate the arts of our Nation, to honor our artists, and to express our appreciation to everyone who patronizes the arts. And as we celebrate the arts, we celebrate and give thanks for our freedom, the only atmosphere in which artists can truly create and in which art is truly the expression of the soul.
Let us join together during National Arts Week to celebrate the arts of our Nation and in pledging to continue this magnificent partnership of artist and patron so as to enrich the soul and the heart of our people forever.
The Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 304, has designated the week of November 16 through November 22, 1986, as "National Arts Week" and authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this event.
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the week of November 16 through November 22, 1986, as National Arts Week. I encourage the people of the United States to observe the week with appropriate ceremonies, programs, and activities.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this seventh day of November, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-six, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and eleventh.
RONALD REAGAN
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 11:02 a.m., November 10, 1986]
  