
    Brett Giroir of Texas, to be the Representative of the United States to the Executive Board of the World Health Organization.
Matthew H. Tueller of Utah, to be to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Iraq.
Ambassador Tueller, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, rank of Minister-Counselor, is currently United States Ambassador to Yemen. Previously, he served as United States Ambassador to Kuwait, Deputy Chief of Mission at United States Embassy Cairo, Political Minister Counselor at United States Embassy Baghdad, Deputy Chief of Mission at United States Embassy Kuwait, Counselor for Political Affairs at United States Embassy Riyadh, and Deputy Director for the Office of Northern Gulf Affairs in the Department of State. Ambassador Tueller received his B.A. from Brigham Young University and his M.P.P. from Harvard University. He is the recipient of the CIA Director's Seal Award, two Presidential Meritorious Honor Awards, and the Department of State's Baker-Wilkins Award for Outstanding Deputy Chief of Mission. Ambassador Tueller is fluent in Arabic.
James S. Gilmore of Virginia, to be the Representative of the United States to the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe with the Rank of Ambassador.
Mr. Gilmore currently serves as President and CEO of American Opportunity Foundation. Previously, he served as Governor of Virginia, Attorney General of Virginia, and as Chairman of the Congressional Advisory Panel to Assess Domestic Response Capabilities for Terrorism Involving Weapons of Mass Destruction, a national panel established by Congress to assess Federal, State, and local government capabilities to respond to the consequences of a terrorist attack. Mr. Gilmore served in the United States Army for three years, where he was assigned to United States Army Intelligence in West Germany. He is a graduate of the University of Virginia and the University of Virginia School of Law. Mr. Gilmore is the recipient of the Air Force Exceptional Service Award and the Joint Service Commendation Medal for Service to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization.
John Barsa of Florida, to be an Assistant Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development (Bureau for Latin America and the Caribbean).
Mr. Barsa currently serves as Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Department of Homeland Security's Office of Partnership and Engagement (DHS OPE). Previously, he served as the Acting Assistant Secretary for OPE. Mr. Barsa served with the United States Army Reserves for nearly a decade and was a member of the 11th Special Forces Group and the 450th Civil Affairs Battalion. In the U.S. Congress, he worked for Representative Lincoln Diaz-Balart, focusing on foreign policy and national security issues. During the Bush Administration, Mr. Barsa served in external engagement roles within the National Aeronautics and Space Administration and the Department of Homeland Security. He is a graduate of Florida International University and is a native Spanish speaker.
Kate Marie Byrnes of Florida, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Macedonia.
Ms. Byrnes, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, currently serves as the Deputy Chief of Mission of the United States Embassy Athens, Greece. Previously, she was the Deputy Chief of Mission and Deputy United States Permanent Representative at the United States Mission to the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE), Vienna, Austria. During her career, she has served as Public Affairs Counselor at the United States Embassy Madrid Spain, Department of State Senior Civilian Representative to Task Force Bastogne/Bronco, Jalalabad Airfield, Afghanistan, and the Public Affairs Advisor to the United States Mission to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, Brussels, Belgium. Ms. Byrnes earned B.S. and M.A. degrees from Georgetown University. She is also the recipient of the Secretary's Expeditionary Service Award and the United States Army Meritorious Civilian Service Award. Ms. Byrnes speaks Spanish, Hungarian and Turkish.
  