
    
November 24, 2015
Marco's first television ad set to air in early states premiered on the Today show this morning.
It tells the story of Marco's father and how his hard work fulfilled his American Dream, to provide a better future for his children.

MARCO: I remember the sounds of his keys jingling at the front door of our home, well past midnight, as he returned from another long day at work. When I was younger, I didn't fully appreciate all he did for us, but now, I more fully understand.
You see, my father was grateful for the work he had. That was not the life he wanted for his children. He wanted all the dreams he once had for himself to come true for us. He wanted all the doors that closed for him to open for me, and so my father stood behind a small portable bar in the back of a room for all those years, so that I could stand behind this podium in front of this room and this nation.
That journey from behind that bar to behind this podium, that's the essence of the American dream. I'm Marco Rubio and I approve this message."


In Marco's book American Dreams, he mentioned the same memory, of how his father worked to ensure that his children would have opportunities he never did:
My father worked as a bartender well into his seventies, long past the time he should have retired. Many of the banquets he worked were on Friday and Saturday nights. So many late nights I recall hearing the jingle of his keys at the door, well past midnight, as he returned from another ten-hour day at work.
I didn't fully appreciate it then, but I know now that the sound at the door wasn't just the sound of keys. It was the sound of the unfulfilled dreams of my father's youth. It was the sound of a father whose entire life was now about making sure I would never have to go through what he went through. It was the sound of his American Dream.

Today, Marco's campaign is focused on making sure that today's parents will have the same chance his father did, to secure a better life for their children.
  