
    Last week, President Biden announced the Build Back Better Framework, which makes transformative investments in climate, care, and kids, will lower the costs of things families depend on, help people get back to work, and grow the economy.
The framework will help the U.S. meet its climate goals, create millions of good-paying jobs, enable more Americans to join and remain in the labor force, and grow our economy from the bottom up and the middle out. And, it will level the playing field and make corporations and the wealthiest pay their fair share, so that middle class families can finally get some breathing room.
Bipartisan elected officials and local leaders nationwide – from Texas to Connecticut – touted the Build Back Better Framework and urged Congress to act in press calls and editorials. See below for a sampling of their local press coverage.
Houston Chronicle: 'Let's not sacrifice the good, seeking the perfect': Turner urges Congress to pass infrastructure, spending bills[Dylan McGuinness, 10/28/21]
"[Houston Mayor Sylvester]Turner said the legislation would be instrumental especially in uplifting minority communities. Black Americans are three times as likely as white Americans to die from exposure to air pollutants, he said. Black communities have lower quality roads and transit systems, Turner said, and they are more likely to live without running water and basic indoor plumbing.
"Since our nation's inception, the people planning our infrastructure have paid little attention to the welfare of communities of color," Turner said. "Builders constructed highways that went straight through communities of color, often taking houses by eminent domain to complete their projects."
That point has been a subject of political debate recently in Houston, as some communities rally against a proposed $9 billion dollar expansion of Interstate 45 through downtown Houston that would displace more than 1,000 residences and 300 businesses.
The investment in high speed internet, lead pipe replacement, and solar facilities "can begin to tear down the systemic racism that our infrastructure has left in its wake," Turner said."
El Paso Times – OPINION: We can and will meet the climate test in the Build Back Better Act: Congressional Democrats[Congresswoman Veronica Escobar, Congressman Josh Gottheimer, Congressman Andy Kim, and Congresswoman Suzanne Bonamici, 10/29/21]
If you read the headlines right now you might think Democrats can't agree on anything — in fact, that could not be further from the truth. The real story is that congressional Democrats, from all parts of this country and from every conference in our Caucus, are almost unanimous in our support of the reconciliation bill called the Build Back Better Act and delivering the climate investments needed to meet the goals that science and public health demand.
We all represent diverse districts and diverse constituencies. Some of us represent progressive and very liberal leaning districts; some of us represent districts that voted for us and Donald Trump. We don't agree on every topic before Congress and occasionally find ourselves on the other side from one another on issues. That's why it's so important that we write this collectively, to collectively encourage our colleagues to make climate a bedrock investment in reconciliation.
The reconciliation bill is our once-in-a-generation opportunity to put millions of people to work in new good-paying union jobs in the clean energy economy while tackling climate change. But our window to act is closing. It's time to meet the climate test with the Build Back Better Act and get this bill to President Biden's desk — to ensure we have the provisions in place to protect our planet.
Meeting the climate test means cutting our emissions in half by 2030. Scientists and experts agree that this is the only way to equitably slow the effects of climate change. A budget that meets the climate test requires many different federal and state investments and policy tools. It is our job now as elected leaders to come to agreement and put our country on the path to reducing carbon emissions and meeting the climate test.
We must meet the climate test in the Build Back Better Act because this summer of extreme weather events was absolutely devastating for our communities. New Jersey residents could not escape their flooded homes, they lost their lives in Hurricane Ida, and communities suffered from washed-out roads and major power outages. The climate resiliency provisions, Superfund clean-up, plus the electric vehicle infrastructure and resources to remove lead from drinking water — all included in the Bipartisan Infrastructure Bill — are also critical in this fight. In Texas, a new study just said that after successive summers of extreme heat, El Pasoans can expect the number of 100 degree days to double in the next 15 years. In Oregon, more than 100 people died during the extreme heat wave, and drought is threatening our farmers and their agricultural products.
Across the country, extreme weather this year has already cost us tens of billions of dollars. It doesn't have to be this way. Through the Build Back Better Act's investments in clean energy, clean energy tax credits, and by making polluters pay, we can move the country off of fossil fuels to clean, affordable energy sources that will slow the effects of the climate crisis and put us on track to a safer, healthier future.
Passing the climate test isn't only about averting the worst impacts of climate change and toxic pollution — the Build Back Better Act is also our country's chance to build a thriving clean energy economy, create good paying jobs, and lower costs for working families. In fact, new data out this month found that meeting our 2030 emissions reductions target will save households $500 a year on energy costs. And from manufacturing electric vehicles and building EV charging stations to upgrading buildings and weatherizing homes, there are new, good jobs for everyone in the clean energy economy and the resources to help workers get the skills they need.
We simply can't wait any longer to create a safe, healthy, equitable, affordable clean energy future. And with the international climate negotiations in Glasgow fast approaching, the whole world is counting on President Biden and Congress to act now. If we're expecting other countries to step up to the plate with strong climate commitments, the United States has to pass the climate test and lead by example.
The question of whether or not we take the climate action needed to improve people's lives and protect the future of our planet is not a "progressive" or "moderate" question — it's a choice between doing the right thing or leaving our communities to deal with the repercussions we already see happening across the world. This piece of legislation, right now, is our chance to tackle climate change and take substantial steps to help save our planet. It's on us to take this opportunity upon ourselves and pass the Build Back Better Act now.
KSWB (San Diego, CA): Gloria, local leaders show support for Biden's infrastructure plan [Jacqueline Sarkissian, 10/28/21]
Mayor Todd Gloria and leaders in the South Bay are showing their support for Pres. Joe Biden's agenda, saying affordable housing is a key element they're focused on in the $1.75 trillion plan.
Gloria joined Chula Vista Mayor Mary Casillas Salas and National City Mayor Alejandra Sotelo-Solis Thursday morning outside the Cesar Chavez Recreation Center in San Ysidro to talk about their "enthusiastic support" for the Build Back Better and Infrastructure Investment and Jobs acts.…
"One of the things I've been focused on is making sure that housing is kept in this piece of legislation," Gloria said. "The announcement today says there's about $150 billion in this deal for housing. That is less than what was originally recommended but it's still in there."…
"Communities like ours, where we have a tremendous need for affordable housing, we recognize there is some level of funding coming our way, so what we can do internally is start preparing projects," Gloria said. "Identify where there are gaps in funding and know that when these dollars arrive, we can slot it into those projects and get them underway."
The local leaders said they chose San Ysidro for the Thursday news conference because it's one of many underserved areas in San Diego County. The mayors, along with San Diego City Councilmember Vivian Moreno of District 8, said if passed, they believe the bills would also make a huge impact on improving roads and highways and bettering children and families for generations to come.
Milwaukee Courier Online: County Leaders Across Nation Urge Congress to Pass Build Back Better Plan - Milwaukee Courier Weekly Newspaper [Ana Martinez-Ortiz, 10/29/21]
County leaders across the country held a virtual press conference urging congress to pass President Joe Biden's Build Back Better Plan and Bipartisan Infrastructure Bill on Wednesday, Oct. 27. The speakers each addressed how these bills could help counties across the nation address climate change, health care, transit infrastructure and more.
County leaders featured on the call included Crowley, King County Executive Dow Constantine (Washington), Franklin County Commissioner John O'Grady (Ohio), Shelby County Mayor Lee Harris (Tennessee), Hennepin County Board Chair Marion Greene (Minnesota) and Montgomery County Councilmember Craig Rice (Maryland).
"When you think about the president's Build Back Better agenda, this is a massive piece of federal support that will help create jobs, cut taxes, lower costs for working families and help Milwaukee County move forward in our vision of achieving racial equity and becoming the healthiest county in the state of Wisconsin," Crowley said during the press conference.
[….]
Harris said Shelby County is also anticipating the portion of the plan which addresses the removal of lead pipes. Shelby County is home to the Memphis Sand Aquifer, which produces 20 million gallons of drinking water a day.
"It's some of the best water in the world," he said. "But it doesn't matter if that last leg gets corroded and it gets poisoned by lead. The Joe Biden plan will help remediate that problem and help protect all of us."
[…]
Greene said Hennepin County is focusing on climate change, transportation and racial disparities. The county's climate change plan includes shifting its car fleet to electric cars and leading on solid waste reform. As far as transit, the county's two new light rails are set to become the state's largest infrastructure projects, Greene said.
"We're so grateful for that federal partnership and it's obviously fundamental to getting this work done," she said. "These are generational investments in jobs, in creating regions where people are able to move around, where they live, work and play in ways that work for their lives and work for the environment."
Like Milwaukee County, Hennepin County had declared racism a public health issue. Part of the county's response was to be more consciences of its investment in the community.
"The pandemic made that work even more mission critical," she said. "We felt it was important work before the pandemic, but my goodness, the pandemic has really accentuated that that work needs to be front and center at all times."
She continued, "When the president talks about building back better, here in Hennepin County that means building back communities in a commitment to race equity."
In Montgomery County, when the pandemic began, elected officials ensured that all school age children would have access to food regardless of their family's income. Children go to school to learn, Rice said, and they shouldn't have to worry about their next meal.
He noted that the additional child tax credit is worth it and that when the government invests in families and children it pays off.
"We're taking care of our next generation, and that next generation is taking care of the future of this world, not just this nation," Rice said.
He continued, "The Build Back Better Act really takes the best of what we know is important to all of us and highlights and doubles down on that. As local jurisdictions we've understood what it is we need to do in supporting our most vulnerable and the most needy in our communities. The Build Back Better Act allows us to double down on those efforts."
Without this support, which covers basic needs such as food and supports policies that protect the elderly and working force, communities will move backwards, Rice said.
"We want to move forward, and we need your help to do so," Rice said. "And we're looking to you, whether its infrastructure or programming to make sure we can do everything we can to continue to highlight the fact the United States of America is the leader when it comes to how we treat our citizens."
WISC (Madison, WI): Group of Wisconsin mayors endorse Build Back Better program [10/29/21]
A group of Wisconsin mayors, including Madison Mayor Satya Rhodes-Conway, endorsed President Biden's Build back Better program Friday.
During a press conference, Rhodes-Conway said the program will help Madison with its housing issues.
"Madison is experiencing an affordable housing crisis and in fact, a housing crisis across the board," Rhodes-Conway said. "We need to add 4000 units of housing today to have a healthy vacancy rate."
The mayor also said the program would help improve the city's stormwater management system.
San Gabriel Valley Tribune: Federal infrastructure bill could support the Long Beach port, Mayor Robert Garcia says[Pierce Singgih, 10/27/21]
Garcia and four other Latino mayors from across the country held the press conference in Long Beach to endorse President Joe Biden's infrastructure and social support bills.
Garcia joined Mayor Trey Mendez of Brownsville, Texas; Regina Romero of Tucson, Arizona; Michelle De La Isla of Topeka, Kansas; and Jorge Elorza of Providence, Rhode Island, to discuss how the two bills can support working parents, those without broadband internet and those who need greater access to health care.
[….]
The five mayors spoke on Tuesday about how these two bills would help working-class and low-income residents.
"There is enormous wealth and an enormous amount of support for those at the very top, for corporations at the very top," Garcia said. "Those folks aren't struggling."
Instead, supporting the middle and working classes should be a priority, the mayors said. Two of those issues, national child care and universal preschool, are important because they represent necessary investment in children's early development, they said.
Parents, De La Isla said, need national child care support so that parents can provide for their families at work or go to school to better provide for their families in the future.
"I want to make sure that other women, who are staying out of the workplace especially after the pandemic," the Topeka mayor said, "don't have to grapple with those decisions."
Romero of Tucson called the bills a "transformational investment" in communities.
"It's as important to provide human infrastructure investment" as it is to invest in bridges, ports and roads, she said.
WSYM (Lansing, MI): Lansing leaders call for support of Build Back Better Act[Elle Meyers, 10/27/21]
"Our community is ready and we are expecting leadership from both the state, the local and federal levels. I will say this, here in the city of Lansing we've made those investments… Now it's up to Congress to do their part," said state Rep. Sarah Anthony, D-East Lansing.
[….]
Anthony and Lansing Mayor Andy Schor said they want to see congressional leaders support President Joe Biden's Build Back Better Act, which aims to cut carbon pollution in the United States by at least 50 percent by 2030.
[ … ]"Now is not the time to be timid, now is not the time to cut corners," Anthony said. "Now it is time for everyone on both sides of the aisle to do what's best for our constituents across the country."
Lansing School District Board Member Missy Lije said better air quality will improve the quality of life for children like her son, Eric.
"As a mom I believe that Eric deserves not to be harmed by the air he breathes, the weather events that he lives through and any unsustainable environments the adults in our community have created for him to live in for the rest of his life," Lije said.
[.…]
Biden's Build Back Better Act is being debated in Congress and, if implemented, the speakers said on Wednesday, could bring Michigan hundreds of new clean energy jobs.
AZ Central: We're Republicans who support infrastructure, budget bills. Here's why (azcentral.com)[Cathy Carlat and John Giles, 10/28/21]
There's an old adage that potholes are neither Republican nor Democrat. They just need to be fixed.
While party often trumps everything else in Congress, there are times to set partisanship aside. Potholes are one of them.
The $1.2 trillion infrastructure bill and $1.75 trillion companion reconciliation bill being debated in Congress would fix potholes in the largest sense possible. They would fund nonpartisan priorities such as better roads and bridges, clean water, clean energy, support for electric vehicles, energy efficiency, a more robust electric grid and more.
[….]
While we were elected in nonpartisan elections, we're both proud to be Republicans. We believe in fiscal responsibility and government accountability, and the bills in Congress fall in line with our ethos. Washington should support responsible investments that boost local communities.
These investments transcend party lines, boosting the economies and improving the quality of life for people in Mesa, in Peoria, and across Arizona. It's refreshing to see our senators, Kyrsten Sinema and Mark Kelly, working across the aisle to help transform legislation into a sustainable, prosperous future.
Now we need Congress – both Republicans and Democrats – to come together for the good of our fast-growing state. Let's get these potholes fixed.
WTNH (New Haven, CT): CT senators make push for President Biden's Build Back Better Plan[Lauren Linder, 10/29/21]
Conn. (WTNH) — Sen. Richard Blumenthal and Sen. Chris Murphy made a big push for President Biden's Build Back Better Plan Friday, one week after Biden traveled to Connecticut to promote the plan himself.
Outside the State Capitol, the senators stressed that the package consisting of social services and climate change programs will change people's lives for the better. They say it would provide more affordable housing, free and universal preschool and more opportunities for jobs and childcare.
Senator Blumenthal specifically cited how the package would help tackle the problem of climate change in the state by creating a civilian conservation corps.
"It will enable countless young people from Hartford and around CT to do civilian conservation work much as was done during the new deal," Blumenthal said.
"Relief is coming for the people of Connecticut. The build-back better agenda is going to change people's lives here in Connecticut," Murphy said.
The senators say they're still working out some details in the package but they're hopeful the plan will be adopted by the end of November.
  