
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate six individuals to serve in his administration:
The President intends to nominate Francis Joseph Harvey, of California, to be an Assistant Secretary of Defense (Networks and Information Integration). He currently serves as Vice Chairman of Duratek, Inc. in Columbia, Maryland. Previously, Dr. Harvey served as the Chief Operating Officer of the Industries and Technology Group for Westinghouse Electric Corporation where he earlier served as President of the Electronic Systems Group and as President of the Government and Environmental Service Company. Dr. Harvey earned his bachelor's degree from the University of Notre Dame and his Ph.D. from the University of Pennsylvania.
The President intends to nominate William Douglas Buttrey, of Tennessee, to be a Member of the Surface Transportation Board, for the remainder of a five-year term expiring December 31, 2007. Mr. Buttrey currently serves as an independent consultant in Memphis, Tennessee. Previously, he served as a Senior Government Affairs Representative for the Federal Express Corporation. Earlier in his career, Mr. Buttrey served as Committee Counsel for the United States Senate Aviation Subcommittee. He earned his bachelor's degree from the Tennessee Technological University and his J.D. from the Memphis State University School of Law.
The President intends to nominate Francis Patrick Mulvey, of Maryland, to be a Member of the Surface Transportation Board, for a five-year term expiring December 31, 2008. Dr. Mulvey currently serves as Democratic Staff Director for the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure Railroad Subcommittee. Previously he served as Deputy Assistant Inspector General for Rail, Transit, and Special Programs for the Department of Transportation. Prior to this position, Dr. Mulvey served as Assistant Director for the United States General Accounting Office. He earned his bachelor's degree from New York University, his master's degree from the University of California at Berkeley, and his Ph.D. from the Washington State University.
The President intends to nominate Gordon Hall Mansfeld, of Virginia, to be Deputy Secretary of Veteran Affairs. He currently serves as Assistant Secretary for Congressional and Legislative Affairs for the Department of Veterans Affairs. Earlier in his career, Mr. Mansfeld served as Executive Director for the Paralyzed Veterans of America, a Veterans Service Organization. From 1989 until 1993, he served as Assistant Secretary for Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity for the Department of Housing and Urban Development. Mr. Mansfeld earned his bachelor's degree from Villanova University and his J.D. from the University of Miami.
The President intends to nominate David Hossein Safavian, of Michigan, to be Administrator for Federal Procurement Policy, Office of Management and Budget, Executive Office of the President. Mr. Safavian currently serves as Chief of Staff for the General Services Administration in Washington, D.C. Prior to this position he served as Chief of Staff for Congressman Chris Cannon. Earlier in his career, Mr. Safavian served as a Shareholder and Managing Partner for Janus-Merritt Strategies, L.L.C. and as an Associate Attorney for Preston, Gates and Ellis in Washington, D.C. He earned his bachelor's degree from St. Louis University, his J.D. from the Detroit College of Law, and his LLM from the Georgetown University Law Center.
The President intends to nominate Laurie Susan Fulton, of Virginia, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the United States Institute of Peace, for the remainder of a four-year term expiring January 19, 2007.
  