
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate three individuals to serve in his administration.
The President intends to nominate Kenneth Price Moorfield to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Gabonese Republic. A career member of the Senior Foreign Service, he has served as the Department of Commerce senior representative in France since February of 2000. He previously served with the Department of Commerce as the Senior Commercial Officer at the U.S. Mission to the European Union in Brussels from 1998 to 2000, and earlier as the Senior Commercial Officer in Hanoi, London, Caracas and Lima. Prior to joining the Department of Commerce, he was the National Director of the Vietnam Veterans Leadership Program. His past assignments include service as the Department of State Science Attache in Caracas, Executive Assistant to the Director of the Sinai Support Mission, Political Liaison to the International Commission on Control/Supervision of the Vietnamese Peace Accords and Special Assistant to Ambassador Graham Martin in Saigon. Moorfield is a graduate of West Point.
The President intends to nominate Frederick R. Heebe to be United States Attorney for the Eastern District of Louisiana. Heebe is currently a Partner with Heebe and Heebe of Jefferson Parish, and previously he was an Attorney with Butler and Heebe of New Orleans from 1980 to 1990. He is a graduate of Tulane University and Tulane University School of Law.
The President intends to nominate David Preston York to be United States Attorney for the Southern District of Alabama. York is presently an attorney with Pierce, Ledyard, Latta, Wasden and Bowron of Mobile, and was previously in private practice. From 1992 to 1997, York was Assistant District Attorney for the 13th Judicial Circuit. He was an Associate Attorney with Johnston, Wilkins, Druhan and Holz from 1991 to 1992, and from 1990 to 1991, he was Assistant District Attorney for the Douglas Judicial Circuit. York is a graduate of Birmingham Southern college and Samford University Law School.
  