
    WASHINGTON, DC – Today, President Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individual to a key Administration post:
•      Marilyn B. Tavenner – Administrator of the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
The President also announced his intent to appoint the following individuals to key Administration posts:
•      Mark L. Alderman – Member, Advisory Board of the National Air and Space Museum
•      Keith M. Harper - Member, President's Commission on White House Fellowships
•      Fletcher "Flash" Wiley - Member, Board of Visitors to the United States Air Force Academy
President Obama said, "It gives me great confidence that such dedicated and capable individuals have agreed to join this Administration to serve the American people. I look forward to working with them in the months and years to come."
President Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individual to a key Administration post:
Marilyn B. Tavenner, Nominee for Administrator, Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
Marilyn Tavenner has served as Principal Deputy Administrator of the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) since February 2010 and as Acting Administrator of CMS from February to July 2010. Previously, Ms. Tavenner served as the Commonwealth of Virginia's Secretary of Health and Human Resources in the administration of former Governor Tim Kaine. Before entering government service, Ms. Tavenner spent nearly 35 years working with healthcare providers in significantly increasing levels of responsibility, including almost 20 years in nursing, 3 years as a hospital CEO and 10 years in various senior executive level positions for Hospital Corporation of America (HCA). She has served as a board member of the American Hospital Association and as president of the Virginia Hospital Association. Ms. Tavenner holds a B.S. in nursing and an M.A. in health administration, both from the Virginia Commonwealth University
President Obama announced his intent to appoint the following individuals to key Administration posts:
Mark L. Alderman, Appointee for Member, Advisory Board of the National Air and Space Museum
Mark L. Alderman is a partner at the law firm of Cozen O'Connor, P.C., and Chairman of Cozen O'Connor Public Strategies LLC. Previously, he was the Chair of Wolf Block LLP. Mr. Alderman has served on a number of business and charitable boards, including the Board of Directors of the NASDAQ Futures Exchange, the Boards of Trustees of the University of Pennsylvania, the Board of Trustees of Thomas Jefferson University, the Board of Trustees of the Pennsylvania Academy of Fine Arts, and the Board of Directors of the Children's Crisis Treatment Center of Philadelphia. He also served as Chairman of the Philadelphia International Airport Advisory Board. Mr. Alderman earned his bachelor's degree from Brown University and his J.D. from the University of Pennsylvania.
Keith M. Harper, Appointee for Member, President's Commission on White House Fellowships
Keith M. Harper is a partner and Chair of the Native American Practice Group at the law firm of Kilpatrick Townsend & Stockton LLP, and a member of the Cherokee Nation of Oklahoma. He works principally on litigation and Native American affairs. Previously, Mr. Harper worked at the Native American Rights Fund and he also worked as an adjunct professor at the Catholic University of America Columbus School of Law and the American University Washington College of Law. Mr. Harper has served on the Supreme Court of the Poarch Band of Creek Indians and as Appellate Justice on the highest court of the Mashantucket Pequot Tribal Nation. He served as a law clerk to the Honorable Lawrence W. Pierce, United States Court of Appeals, Second Circuit. Mr. Harper received a B.A. from the University of California, Berkeley and a J.D. from New York University School of Law.
Fletcher "Flash" Wiley, Appointee for Member, Board of Visitors to the United States Air Force Academy
Fletcher "Flash" Wiley is currently Of Counsel to Bingham McCutchen LLP, where he specializes in corporate and commercial law. He is a founding member of the Harvard Law School Black Alumni Organization, a former Director of the New England Legal Foundation, Overseer of the New England Region Anti-Defamation League, and a current member of the Board of Visitors to The Air University. In addition, Mr. Wiley founded and chaired the Massachusetts Governor's Commission on Minority Business Development and served as Chairman of the Board of the Greater Boston Chamber of Commerce. He served as a Captain in the U.S. Air Force and completed a Fulbright Fellowship at L'Institut Des Etudes Politiques in Paris, France. Mr. Wiley received a B.S. from the United States Air Force Academy, an M.P.A. from the Harvard Kennedy School and a J.D. from Harvard Law School.
  