
    Chapel Hill, North Carolina – Today, Senator John Edwards released the following statement in reaction to a recently released report on the offshoring of American jobs from the Economic Policy Institute (EPI):
"Today, the Economic Policy Institute issued a report that should come as a clarion call to everyone concerned about the impact of unfair trade agreements and practices on America's working families. In their report, the EPI concludes that between 25 to 30 million American jobs -- about one in five American jobs -- in states all across the nation, are at risk for being offshored over the next decade. And it's not just manufacturing jobs – the report shows those jobs that require at least a four-year college degree are actually the most at risk.
"This report makes clear what the labor community has known for far too long: bad trade deals, cheap foreign labor, illegal foreign subsidies and foreign currency manipulation are having a devastating effect on American workers. These practices are stealing the American Dream from the middle class and the broken system in Washington is allowing it to happen. Given this reality, I find it alarming that Senator Clinton and Senator Obama have chosen to support a flawed Peru Trade deal that will only further expand the NAFTA-model that has already cost us well over a million jobs.
"As Democrats, we can and must do better. It's time for us to show a little backbone and stand up for America's working families. As president, the first and last question I will ask before signing any trade deal is, 'Is this good for American workers and American jobs?'
"When I am president, I will put American workers and jobs first, and make sure we invest in the American workforce by putting more resources toward education and innovation and building a new energy economy with over a million new green-collar jobs. And I will help American businesses do right by their workers by finally passing universal health care to cut health care costs, which is the single most pressing business problem in the country today.
"Working together we must do everything we can to minimize the unfair offshoring of American jobs and do right by America's working families."
  