
    "We will find opportunities for our private sector to work with yours and to create jobs and wealth for us all. We seek strong partners, not weak partners. We seek strong neighbors, not weak neighbors. Above all, we seek friendship, and we don't dream of domination." – President Donald J. Trump
PROMOTE A FREE AND OPEN INDO-PACIFIC REGION: President Donald J. Trump advanced high-standard rules so the Indo-Pacific region can continue to develop and prosper.

 President Trump delivered a clear public message at the APEC CEO Summit that the United States seeks robust trade relationships rooted in the principles of fairness and reciprocity and is willing to make bilateral trade agreements on that basis with any country in the region. 
 The President emphasized that it is in America's interest to have partners throughout the region that are thriving, prosperous, and self-reliant.
 President Trump committed to reforming United States development finance institutions to better incentivize private-sector investment as an alternative to state-directed initiatives that come with many strings attached.
 The President highlighted that the United States has been an active partner in the region since America won independence, and will be a reliable friend, partner, and ally in the region for a long time to come. 

ADVANCE AMERICA'S PROSPERITY: President Trump promoted American prosperity and trade, including through new investments and energy sales that will lead to more American jobs.

President Trump and other APEC leaders underlined APEC's crucial role in support of a trading system that is free and open, but also fair. 
APEC leaders recognized the importance of reciprocal and mutually advantageous trade and investment frameworks, and committed to work together to address unfair trade practices. 
The President and his counterparts urgently called for the removal of market-distorting subsidies and other types of support by governments and related entities. 
President Trump delivered a strong public message at the APEC CEO Summit that the World Trade Organization (WTO) can only function properly when all members follow the rules as negotiated. 
APEC leaders committed to improve the functioning of the WTO to adequately address challenges it is facing, and pledged to work to ensure effective and timely enforcement of WTO rules. 
The President and other APEC leaders committed to lowering barriers that impede services exports, and committed to enhancing regional market access for service providers. 
APEC leaders pledged to consider actions to facilitate the development of the internet and digital economy, including e-commerce and digital trade.
President Trump and other APEC leaders called for the full implementation of the WTO Agreement on Trade Facilitation to realize meaningful and widespread benefits; encouraged the facilitation of energy-related trade and investment; and committed to enhancing regional food markets and food standards, and reducing barriers to food trade, including burdensome and unnecessarily restrictive trade measures.
The President and other APEC leaders encouraged public and private sector initiatives that enhance women's economic empowerment; improve women's access to capital, assets, and markets; increase women's participation in high-growth and high-wage sectors; and promote women's leadership.
The United States, with Australia and Chinese Taipei, established the first-ever APEC fund to support and promote women's economic participation.
The President and his counterparts resolved to enhance energy security.
APEC leaders committed to strengthening the ability of small businesses to compete in international markets and to increasing the preparedness of workers for the digital age. 
Before arriving in Vietnam, President Trump made permanent the United States issuance of APEC Business Travel Cards, in order to facilitate United States business travel in the region.

  