
    The following listing includes the President's daily schedule and other items of general interest as announced by the White House Press Office during the period covered by this issue. Events and announcements printed elsewhere in the issue are not included.
November 11
The President met at the White House with Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs.
November 12
The President visited former Senator Harold Hughes' farm in Royal Oak, Md. He returned to the White House later the same day.
November 13
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance;
—W. Averell Harriman;
—Adm. Stansfield Turner, Director of Central Intelligence, Hamilton Jordan, Assistant to the President, and Dr. Brzezinski.
The White House announced that the President has accepted the very kind invitation of President Lopez Portillo to visit Mexico between February 14-16, 1979. The announcement further stated that President Carter believes that his visit, like the visit of President Lopez Portillo to the United States in February 1977, will further strengthen the unique relationship between two nations that have always shared a common destiny.
November 14
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—King Hassan II of Morocco, Secretary Vance, Dr. Brzezinski, and other Moroccan and American officials; James T. Mcintyre, Jr., Director of the Office of Management and Budget;
—Secretary Vance and Israeli Defense Minister Ezer Weizman.
November 15
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Senator Robert C. Byrd of West Virginia, who is serving as the President's personal emissary in a November trip which will include visits to countries in North Africa, the Middle East, and the eastern Mediterranean;
—King Hassan II of Morocco;
—the President's Council on Physical Fitness and Sports;
—Secretary of the Treasury W. Michael Blumenthal;
—Ambassador William G. Bowdler, the U.S. Representative to the International Mediation Group for Nicaragua.
November 16
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Maj. Gen. Muhammad Hosni Mubarak, the Vice President of Egypt, Secretary Vance, Egyptian Ambassador to the United States Ashraf A. Ghorbal, Ambassador at Large Alfred L. Atherton, Jr., Harold H. Saunders, Assistant Secretary of State for Near Eastern and South Asian Affairs, and Dr. Brzezinski;
—Mrs. Carter, for lunch;
—Secretary of Housing and Urban Development Patricia Roberts Harris;
—His Eminence Terence Cardinal Cooke, and Archbishop John R. Quinn, president, Archbishop John R. Roach, vice president, and Bishop Thomas Kelly, general secretary, National Conference of Catholic Bishops.
In a ceremony in the Oval Office, the President received diplomatic credentials from Ambassadors Macky Koreissi Aguibou Tall of the Republic of Mali, Nicolae Ionescu of Romania, Bernard Loustau Lalanne of the Republic of Seychelles, and Khalil Itani of Lebanon.
The President attended the movie "Children of Sanchez" at the MacArthur Theatre in Washington, D.C., in conjunction with the Mexican-American Legal Defense and Educational Fund's 10th anniversary celebration.
November 17
The President met at the White House with:
—Vice President Walter F. Mondale, Secretary Vance, Secretary of Defense Harold Brown, Dr. Brzezinski, and Mr. Jordan;
—Senator Daniel K. Inouye of Hawaii;
—Mrs. Joan Mondale and Livingston L. Biddle, Jr., Chairman of the National Endowment for the Arts, and others who were meeting to discuss the Federal Government's role in the arts;
—a group of editors and news directors (transcript will be printed next week);
—the judicial selection committee of the American Bar Association.
The President attended the 50th birthday party reception. for Mickey Mouse, which was hosted by his daughter, Amy, in the East Room at the White House. Included among the guests were handicapped children from the District of Columbia public school system.
The President left the White House for a weekend stay at Camp David, Md.
  