
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Romney Press Shop (857) 288-6390
Boston, MA – Today, Governor Mitt Romney announced that Kathy Gregg, the wife of New Hampshire's Senior Senator Judd Gregg, will serve as a Co-Chair of the Romney for President campaign in New Hampshire. As a Co-Chair, she will help lead and organize the Governor's campaign in the state.
"I am proud to join Judd in announcing our support for Governor Romney. Governor Romney has built an incredible grassroots organization in the state, and I am proud to help lead his New Hampshire effort. As we travel across the state, it is clear that Governor Romney and his vision for change in Washington are resonating with the people of New Hampshire," said Kathy Gregg.
Making today's announcement, Governor Romney said, "It is an honor that Kathy will be helping our campaign in the Granite State. Over the past few months, I've had an opportunity to meet people from all across New Hampshire. I know they are proud of Senator Gregg and Kathy, their former First Lady. As we travel back to New Hampshire in the coming weeks, I look forward to working with her and our many other grassroots supporters to advance our campaign for building a stronger America."
Background On Kathleen MacLellan Gregg:
Kathy Gregg, wife of U.S. Senator Judd Gregg, has a degree in Elementary Education and taught first grade in New Hampshire before raising their three children.
Kathy has been active in both the New Hampshire and Washington, DC communities. Her interests include promoting the arts, historic preservation, environmental issues and protecting children from abuse. She currently serves on the Board of the Dartmouth-Hitchcock Overseers, the Nackey S. Loeb School of Communications, the John Hay Refuge and the Board of Trustees for the Ford's Theatre Society. In 2004, Kathy was recognized with a "Lifetime of Service" award from City Year New Hampshire.
Kathy and Judd were married in 1973 in New Hampshire and presently live in Rye Beach.
  