
    President Donald J. Trump today announced his intent to nominate a ninth wave of United States Attorneys and third wave of United States Marshals. The United States Attorney serves as the chief Federal law enforcement officer within his or her Federal judicial district. The United States Marshal performs the essential functions of protecting the Federal judiciary, apprehending fugitives, transporting prisoners, and protecting witnesses. These candidates share the President's vision for "Making America Safe Again." Accordingly, the President today announced his intent to nominate these individuals to serve their respective jurisdictions:
If confirmed, Joseph P. Kelly will serve as the United States Attorney for the District of Nebraska. Mr. Kelly is currently serving his second term as the Lancaster County Attorney. Prior to that position, he served as the chief deputy Lancaster County Attorney for 10 years and as deputy Lancaster County Attorney for more than 10 years. Mr. Kelly has prosecuted a wide variety of crimes including homicide, robbery, sexual assault and white collar. He was an associate with Berniger, Berg and Diver PC in Colorado Springs, Colorado from 1987 to 1990. Mr. Kelly received his B.A. from the University of Nebraska and his J.D. from the University of Nebraska College of Law.
If confirmed, Scott W. Murray will serve as the United States Attorney for the District of New Hampshire. Mr. Murray is currently the Merrimack County Attorney, serving his fourth consecutive 2-year term in that office. From 1983 to 2011, Mr. Murray served as the chief prosecutor for the City of Concord, New Hampshire. Mr. Murray received his B.A. and M.P.A from the University of New Hampshire and his J.D. from Franklin Pierce Law Center.
If confirmed, David Weiss will serve as the United States Attorney for the District of Delaware. Mr. Weiss is currently the Acting United States Attorney for the District of Delaware. He previously served as the interim United States Attorney for the District of Delaware, and, starting in 2007, served as the First Assistant United States Attorney. Mr. Weiss also served as an Assistant United States Attorney from 1986 to 1989, prosecuting violent crimes and white collar offenses. In between his stints at the United States Attorney's Office, Mr. Weiss was a commercial litigation associate and then partner, at Duane Morris LLP and was an executive at a financial services firm. Mr. Weiss clerked for the Honorable Andrew D. Christie of the Delaware Supreme Court. He received his B.S. from Washington University in St. Louis and his J.D. from Widener University School of Law.
If confirmed, Billy J. Williams will serve as the United States Attorney for the District of Oregon. Since February 2016, Mr. Williams has served as the court-appointed United States Attorney for the District of Oregon. He has worked at the United States Attorney's Office for the District of Oregon since 2000, where he has served as the First Assistant, Chief of the Criminal Division, Chief of the Violent Crimes Unit, and as the Tribal Liaison. Prior to joining the United States Attorney's Office, Mr. Williams served as a Senior Deputy District Attorney in the Multnomah County District Attorney's Office. He received his B.A. from Washington State University, and his J.D. from Willamette University College of Law.
If confirmed, Dr. Matthew D. Harris will serve as the United States Marshal for the District of Utah. Dr. Harris is currently an assistant special agent in charge with the United States Postal Service, Office of Inspector General. Previously, Dr. Harris served as a senior special agent and assistant director for criminal investigations at the United States Government Accountability Office. From 2000 to 2006, Dr. Harris served in the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives in Salt Lake City, Utah, and from 1999 to 2000, in the New York State Office of Inspector General. Dr. Harris began his Federal law enforcement career in 1997 with the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service. He has also been an Adjunct Professor of Criminal Justice at Salt Lake Community College since 2003. Dr. Harris holds a doctorate in business administration from Northcentral University, a Master of Public Administration from the John Jay College of Criminal Justice, and a Bachelor of Science in public administration and criminal justice from Kutztown University.
If confirmed, Ted G. Kamatchus will serve as the United States Marshal for the Southern District of Iowa. Mr. Kamatchus recently retired as Sheriff of Marshall County, Iowa, after serving in that role for 29 years. He began his law enforcement career in 1977 as a police officer in Le Center, Minnesota, and went on to serve in police departments in Waterville and Saint Peter, Minnesota, as well as Marshalltown, Iowa. Mr. Kamatchus served as President of the National Sheriffs' Association from 2006 to 2007, and President of the Iowa State Sheriffs and Deputies Association from 2000 to 2001.
If confirmed, Joseph D. McClain will serve as the United States Marshal for the Southern District of Indiana. Mr. McClain is currently the Sheriff of Scott County, Indiana. Mr. McClain served in the U.S. Navy from 1982 to 1995, during which time he served on SEAL Teams Four and Six, and later as a SEAL Instructor at the Naval Special Warfare Center. Following his service in the Navy, he went on to provide security consulting services from 2004 to 2009 in support of the U.S. Department of Defense and Department of State during Operation Iraqi Freedom, and the Center for Anti-Terrorism and Naval Security Forces in Jacksonville, Florida. He was elected Sheriff of Scott County in 2011.
If confirmed, David A. Weaver will serve as the United States Marshal for the District of Colorado. Mr. Weaver is currently the District I County Commissioner for Douglas County, Colorado, a position he has held since 2014. Prior to his election to the Board of County Commissioners, Mr. Weaver served as Sheriff of Douglas County for two terms, from 2005 to 2014. He served all 33 years of his law enforcement career with the Douglas County Sheriff's Office. Mr. Weaver is a graduate of the Southwest Command College, the Colorado Sheriffs' Institute, the National Sheriffs' Institute, and the FBI National Academy.
  