
    We believe the American people have a right to know the price of services before they go to visit the doctor. --President Donald J. Trump
PROMOTING HONESTY AND TRANSPARENCY IN HEALTHCARE PRICES: President Donald J. Trump is taking bold action to give patients the information they need to find high-value care.

President Trump is announcing two historic rules to make healthcare prices more transparent than ever before.
The Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) is finalizing a rule that will require hospitals to make prices publicly available online

Hospitals will display prices for shoppable services as a total package in an easy-to-read, consumer-friendly format.


The Trump Administration is also proposing a rule to require insurance companies and group health plans to provide cost estimates to enrollees in advance of care.

Additionally, we are proposing that these companies make a list of all of their pricing information available to the public.


Together, these two rules represent the most aggressive actions taken by any administration to put healthcare price information in the hands of patients.

IMPROVING TRANSPARENCY TO LOWER COSTS: Our healthcare system has long hidden the true cost of care, keeping critical information from patients and limiting competition.

For years, powerful interests have blocked patients from knowing the true price and quality of healthcare, denying them the information they need to make informed choices.

This lack of transparency has enriched industry giants at the expense of regular Americans.


Prices for the exact same healthcare services can vary significantly in the same area with little to no correlation to quality.
Armed with accurate information, patients can shop around for healthcare services and make the decision that is best for them.
By increasing price transparency and empowering patients we can help lower the cost of healthcare and drive competition.
Employers from around the country have already utilized priced transparency tools to reduce costs for their employees.

PUTTING AMERICAN PATIENTS FIRST: President Trump is working to protect the vulnerable, improve affordability, provide more options, and increase quality in American healthcare.

The President signed an executive order to protect and improve Medicare for American seniors.
The Trump Administration has taken aggressive action to drive down prescription drug prices and increase the availability of lower priced generics.

These efforts have contributed to the largest decrease in prescription drug costs in nearly half a century.


The President has empowered consumers by working to expand affordable options like Health Reimbursement Arrangements, short-term plans, and Association Health Plans.
The President is working to improve healthcare for Americans struggling with conditions like HIV/AIDS, kidney disease, pediatric cancer, Alzheimer's, and more.

  