
    
  Veteran Republican Leaders to Chair Strong State Organization

McLean, VA - Today, at a press conference in Jackson, Mississippi, the Fred Thompson campaign announced its Mississippi Leadership Team. Senator Thad Cochran and Congressman Roger Wicker will both serve as Mississippi Co-Chairs for the Thompson campaign.
Senator Thad Cochran first began his political career as the Executive Director of Mississippi Citizens for Nixon-Agnew in 1968. In 1972 he was elected to the United States Congress where he served three terms and represented the southern states on the House Republican Policy Committee. Cochran was elected to the Senate in 1978, becoming the first Republican in over 100 years to win a statewide election in Mississippi. In his Senate career he has served as Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference and currently serves as the Ranking Member of the Appropriations Committee and the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee.
"I am honored to co-chair Senator Thompson's campaign organization in my home state," said Senator Cochran. "I worked closely with him in the United States Senate and know he has the conservative values, integrity, experience, and judgment to unite our country, lead our nation, fight the Global War on Terrorism, and keep us safe."
Congressman Roger Wicker has served Mississippi's First Congressional District since 1995. Prior to his election to Congress he served two terms in the Mississippi State Senate from 1987-1994. He currently serves as a Deputy Republican Whip and serves on the Appropriations Committee as well as the Defense Subcommittee. In 2007 he was named the ranking minority member on the Military Construction/Veterans Affairs Subcommittee. A graduate of the University of Mississippi, Congressman Wicker served in the U.S. Air Force and the Air Force Reserve. He retired from the Reserve in 2004 with the rank of lieutenant colonel.
"I am proud to serve with Senat or Thad Cochran as co-chair of the Thompson campaign in Mississippi," said Congressman Wicker. "Fred Thompson has the courage and leadership to tackle the increasing challenges we will be facing as a nation over the next few years. He is a man of principle with a proven record and I look forward to spreading his message of consistent conservatism throughout Mississippi."
"We are very pleased to have the support of Senator Cochran and Congressman Wicker," said Randy Enwright, National Political Director. "I admire the leadership Senator Cochran and Congressman Wicker have provided for the people of Mississippi and we welcome their support as we carry our consistent conservative along the campaign trail."
Former State Senator Steve Seale will serve as the Fred Thompson campaign's Mississippi State Coordinator.
In addition, the following Mississippi state leaders are joining the Thompson Campaign Mississippi organization:
State Representative-Elect Lester (Bubba) Carpenter
State Insurance Commissioner Mike Chaney
State Representative Jim Ellington
State Representative Rita Martinson
Mayor Gene McGee (Ridgeland)
State Representative John Moore
State Representative Greg Snowden
  