
    Pool Reports by Noah Robertson, The Christian Science Monitor 



Sent:
Reports:




November 5, 202209:26 CDT

WH Travel Pool Report #1 – Good Morning
Hello from Chicago!Your pool is covid tested and waiting in the lobby. First stop of the day is an elementary school in Joliet, about an hour away by motorcade we're told. It's a little muggy here, and there's a chance of rain this afternoon.
See schedule below:
Saturday, November 5, 2022
CDT
9:00 AM Out-of-Town Pool Call Time
10:30 AM THE PRESIDENT delivers remarks on lowering prescription drug costs, and protecting Social Security and MedicareJones Elementary School, Joliet, IllinoisOpen Press
12:45 PM THE PRESIDENT departs Chicago, Illinois en route Philadelphia, PennsylvaniaChicago O'Hare International Airport, Chicago, IllinoisOut-of-Town Pool
EDT
3:35 PM THE PRESIDENT arrives in Philadelphia, PennsylvaniaPhiladelphia International Airport, Philadelphia, PennsylvaniaOpen Press
5:00 PM THE PRESIDENT participates in a political rallyPhiladelphia, PennsylvaniaOpen Press
7:45 PM THE PRESIDENT departs Philadelphia, Pennsylvania en route New Castle, DelawarePhiladelphia International Airport, Philadelphia, PennsylvaniaOut-of-Town Pool
8:00 PM THE PRESIDENT arrives in New Castle, DelawareWilmington Airport, New Castle, DelawareOut-of-Town Pool



November 5, 202209:33 CDT

WH Travel Pool Report #2 – Rolling
The motorcade is moving at 9:32 am. The pool did not see President Biden enter his car.
It's windy and sprinkling a bit.
Anita Dunn and KJP both said hello in the lobby earlier. Dunn said we looked like we were waiting for the school bus.



November 5, 202210:32 CDT

WH Travel Pool Report #3 – Elementary School Arrival
We pulled up at Jones Elementary in Joliet at 10:25 am. The area is rural, with farms, distribution centers, and scattered suburbs on the way. Were holding in the basketball gym.
There were dozens of protesters standing beside the road to the elementary school. Flags and signs read "F*** Biden," "Baby killer," "socialism sucks," "Lets go Brandon," and the like. One, pictured, said "where's Nancy."
Per the WH
Traveling with the Preisdent via motorcade en route Jones Elementary School in Joliet, Illinois:
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of StaffAnita Dunn, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the PresidentAnnie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office OperationsKarine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press SecretaryVinay Reddy, Assistant to the President & Director of SpeechwritingCarla Frank, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of the Office of Political Strategy & OutreachAshley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office OperationsTravis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip DirectorTerry Wolff, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for the Middle East and North Africa, National Security Council




November 5, 202210:59 CDT

WH Travel Pool Report #4 – Biden Begins
The president began speaking at 10:58 a.m.
Stream at https://www.whitehouse.gov/live/
There's a couple hundred people here. Military flags hang on the wall and folding chairs are stacked in the back. A few kids are sitting atop the collapsed bleachers, next to a cartoon poster of a lion.
Sen. Tammy Duckworth was mistakenly introduced as "Timothy" Duckworth. Sen. Durbin made some backhanded references to former President Trump – mentioning in particular Jan. 6. "There are moments in my public life that I'll never forget and that was one of them." Then a recital of Dem's resume: a SCOTUS pick confirmed, legislation passed, etc.
A constituent of Rep Underwood's spoke about benefiting from tax breaks for healthcare costs and Social Security/Medicare.
Per the WH
The President will deliver remarks on lowering prescription drug costs and protecting Social Security and Medicare
AttendeesMembers of the community, local elected officials, and grassroots supporters
Speaking ProgramRep. Lauren Underwood (IL-14)Senator Tammy Duckworth (IL)Senator Dick Durbin (IL)Audree HallThe President
Participating in a photoline with the President at Jones Elementary School:
Senator Dick Durbin (IL)Senator Tammy Duckworth (IL)Rep. Robin Kelly (IL-02)Rep. Lauren Underwood (IL-14)Denise Winfrey, Commissioner of Will County, IllinoisJennifer Bertino-Tarrant, Will County Executive



November 5, 202211:26 CDT

WH Travel Pool Report #5 – Highlights & Rolling.
The president finished at 11:22 a.m. The wind has gotten stronger, and the pool could hear it whipping against the gym door.
Were rolling at 11:25 am. The wind almost blew our lanyards off when walking to the cars. No sight of the president boarding.
(check quotes against audio)
He started with some words of praise for the Illinois congressional delegation and Rep Underwood in particular – repeating stories about his past experiences with nurses and the healthcare system.
Then onto SS and Medicare: "Folks I'm coming to Illinois to talk about two programs that reflect who we are as Americans and Lauren understands to her core, to her core: Social Security and Medicare. ... I never thought I'd have to make this speech."
Some folksy Biden stories about his dad, his mom, and their desire to retire with "dignity."
"We're proud people, especially those who've busted their neck their whole life and paid into the system""It's a rock solid guarantee, and an ironclad commitment"
He referenced the protesters outside while discussing Social Security and Medicare: "I love those signs when I came in – "socialism." Give me a break. What idiots."
Then onto healthcare and the IRA.
He said Republicans still want a "repeal of the Affordable Care Act."
"And folks, they're also coming for your Social Security and Medicare." Cue familiar chips at Sens. Rick Scott and Ron Johnson."These guys don't want there to be any breathing room"
Later he mentioned that Congressional Republicans would be willing to threaten a default on the national debt.
Then onto his unity message and a call to vote.
While explaining why he couldn't greet as many folks as he wanted to after the event he called John Fetterman a "big boy" and said he didn't want to be late for the Senatorial candidate.



November 5, 202212:36 CDT

WH Travel Pool Report #6 – O'Hare & Off
President Biden boarded AF1 at Chicago O'Hare International Airport at 12:29 pm. We're taxiing now at 12:36 pm.
The protesters were still on the curb as we left the elementary school. A house on the street had sheets draped over their fence with "Tyrant" written in paint stained by the rain. A driver moving the opposite way down road held a middle finger out through an open window.
See y'all in Philly!
Per the WH
Traveling with the President aboard Air Force One en route Philadelphia International Airport:
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of StaffAnita Dunn, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the PresidentAnnie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office OperationsKarine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press SecretaryVinay Reddy, Assistant to the President & Director of SpeechwritingCarla Frank, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of the Office of Political Strategy & OutreachAshley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office OperationsTravis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip DirectorTerry Wolff, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for the Middle East and North Africa, National Security Council



November 5, 202215:38 EDT

WH Travel Pool Report #7 – Touchdown & Rolling
AF1 landed in Philadelphia's international airport at 3:15 pm (now in Eastern Time). The president exited the plane at 3:35 pm wearing sunglasses. He saluted and immediately boarded his vehicle.
We're now rolling to the rally 3:37 pm.
The first 15 or so minutes of the flight were rocky in the wind. (Your pooler opted for seatbelt on…). Having eaten cheesesteaks on the plane and now sporting green lanyard tags, we're ready for the city!



November 5, 202216:03 EDT

WH Travel Pool Report #8 – Rally Arrival
The motorcade stopped at Temple University's Liacouras Center at 3:54 pm. We've been told the rally will have several thousand in attendance. No sight of POTUS.
Holding now in the press area, listening to Rihanna's "We Found Love."
The pool saw some ads for Shapiro and signs to vote on the way here. Far more 76ers and Phillies shirts though. A woman, who appeared to be a new bride, was waving in her dress outside a city church.



November 5, 202217:18 EDT

WH Travel Pool Report #9 – Biden Begins
President Biden took the stage at 5:16 pm, walking out with former President Obama, AG Shapiro, and Lt. Gov. Fetterman. Largest cheers after Obama's name by far. The other three walked off stage as Biden began speaking.
Almost all available seats are filled. In the pre show, attendees waved their phone flashlights like a concert and sang along to the music. There were a few rounds of the wave. Soon before the presidents entered, DJ Khaled's "All I Do is Win" played.
Watch here:
https://www.c-span.org/video/?524043-1/president-biden-fmr-president-oba...
Per the WH
Participating in a greet with the President at a political rally in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania:
Former President Barack ObamaJohn Fetterman, Lieutenant Governor of PennsylvaniaJosh Shapiro, Attorney General of Pennsylvania
The President is participating in a political rally in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.
AttendeesGrassroots supporters, local electeds, and community members
Run of ShowPastor Darron McKinneyJordan TisdaleSharif Street, Pennsylvania State Senator (District 3)Sarah LinJoanna McClinton, Pennsylvania State Representative (District 191)Vincent Hughes, Pennsylvania State Senator (District 7)Rep. Brendan Boyle (PA-02)Rep. Dwight Evans (PA-03)Austin Davis, Pennsylvania State Representative (District 35)Tom Wolf, Governor of PennsylvaniaSenator Bob Casey (PA)The PresidentJosh Shapiro, Attorney General of PennsylvaniaJohn Fetterman, Lieutenant Governor of PennsylvaniaFormer President Barack Obama



November 5, 202217:46 EDT

WH Travel Pool Report #10 – Highlights from Biden
The president finished speaking at 5:43 p.m.
(check the quotes)
On Fetterman:
"Something else is on the ballot: character."
"Oz – in Pennsylvania?" he asked to boos from the crowd
"I've lived in Pennsylvania longer than Oz has lived in Pennsylvania, and I moved when I was 10 years old."

There were boos when Biden mentioned former President Trump and Republican economic plans. A filter, then, of the trip's greatest hits: manufacturing, healthcare, climate, student debt relief. He said Republicans want to roll back all of the admin's work on these + the ACA, Social Security, and Medicare.
On that third one, he mentioned Western Pennsylvania's mine-based economy and his intention to bring renewable energy-based work to the area. "We create thousands of good paying jobs for the same people who built those mines in the first place."
Boos in reference to Rick Scott and Ron Johnson – who he said wants to roll back veterans' benefits.
"It's not just about the economy. Let's talk about crime and keeping communities safe."
"Oz won't do a thing about guns," he said after referencing the national gun bill passed this year.

He also said Republicans want to ban abortion and took particular note to mention Sen. Lindsey Graham's plan on the issue.
He ended with his optimism message. "There's no quit in John Fetterman... There's no quit in America."



November 5, 202219:05 EDT

WH Travel Pool Report #11 – Rally End
The speeches ended at 6:57 pm. Biden, Fetterman, Shapiro, and Obama all stood on stage together again. Biden and Obama hugged. The four then stood hand in hand at the podium and made their way toward the tunnel.
"Obama" chants broke out before the 44th president spoke. He began with sports and a 76ers joke. At one point he gave a disclaimer that midterms are hard on Democrats, offering his own record as evidence.
People yelled out "preach" as he spoke
Per the WH
There are 7,500 people in attendance for tonight's event with the President, former President Barack Obama, gubernatorial candidate Josh Shapiro, and senatorial candidate John Fetterman.



November 5, 202219:42 EDT

WH Travel Pool Report #12 – Rolling
The motorcade started off at 7:41 pm. No eyes on the president.
From the WH
Participating in a photoline with the President and Former President Barack Obama:
Tom Wolf, Governor of PennsylvaniaSenator Bob Casey (PA)Rep. Brendan Boyle (PA-02)Rep. Mary Gay Scanlon (PA-05)Rep. Madeleine Dean (PA-04)Rep. Dwight Evans (PA-03)John Fetterman, Lieutenant Governor of PennsylvaniaJosh Shapiro, Attorney General of PennsylvaniaSharif Street, Pennsylvania State Senator (District 3)Malcolm Kenyatta, Pennsylvania State Representative (District 181)Nikil Saval, Pennsylvania State Senator (District 1)Marty Flynn, Pennsylvania State Senator (District 22)Jordan Harris, Pennsylvania State Representative (District 186)Joanna McClinton, Pennsylvania State Representative (District 191)Helen Gym, Philadelphia Councilmember At-LargeIsaiah Thomas, Philadelphia Councilmember At-LargeChairwoman Lisa Deeley, Philadelphia City Commissioners



November 5, 202220:06 EDT

WH Travel Pool Report #13 – Airport & Liftoff
The motorcade arrived at Philadelphia International Airport at 7:56 pm.
The pool did not see the president board M1.
Were lifting off in ospreys to DANG at 8:05 pm.
During the drive there was a cheerleading squad in formation on the street chanting "USA" with pom poms.
Per the WH
Traveling aboard Marine One with the President en route Delaware Air National Guard Base:
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office OperationsAshley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office OperationsTerry Wolff, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for the Middle East and North Africa, National Security Council



November 5, 202220:32 EDT

WH Travel Pool Report #14 - DANG & Rolling
The pool landed at 8:17 pm and M1 followed at 8:25 pm. President Biden exited the helicopter at 8:29 pm.
The motorcade is now rolling two minutes later.
Per the WH
Greeting the President upon arrival at Delaware Air National Guard Base:
Colonel Michael Jochen



November 5, 202220:47 EDT

WH Travel Pool Report #15 – Arrival & Lid
Drop off, with no sight of the president, at 8:45 pm. And we have a lid.
Cheers everyone!




  