
    NOMINATIONS SENT TO THE SENATE:
Steven G. Bradbury, of Maryland, to be an Assistant Attorney General, vice Jack Landman Goldsmith III, resigned.
Paul DeCamp, of Virginia, to be Administrator of the Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor, vice Tammy Dee McCutchen, resigned.
Elizabeth Dougherty, of the District of Columbia, to be a Member of the National Mediation Board for a term expiring July 1, 2007, vice Edward J. Fitzmaurice, Jr., term expired.
Elizabeth Dougherty, of the District of Columbia, to be a Member of the National Mediation Board for a term expiring July 1, 2010. (Reappointment)
Arlene Holen, of the District of Columbia, to be a Member of the Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission for a term of six years expiring August 30, 2010, vice Robert H. Beatty, Jr., term expired.
Richard Stickler, of West Virginia, to be Assistant Secretary of Labor for Mine Safety and Health, vice David D. Lauriski, resigned to which position he was appointed during the last recess of the Senate.
Kenneth Y. Tomlinson, of Virginia, to be a Member of the Broadcasting Board of Governors for a term expiring August 13, 2007. (Reappointment).
Kenneth Y. Tomlinson, of Virginia, to be Chairman of the Broadcasting Board of Governors. (Reappointment)
Peter W. Tredick, of California, to be a Member of the National Mediation Board for a term expiring July 1, 2009, vice Read Van de Water, term expired.
WITHDRAWALS SENT TO THE SENATE:
Elizabeth Dougherty, of the District of Columbia, to be a Member of the National Mediation Board for a term expiring July 1, 2009, vice Read Van de Water, term expiring, which was sent to the Senate on May 25, 2006.
Peter W. Tredick, of California, to be a Member of the National Mediation Board for a term expiring July 1, 2007, vice Edward J. Fitzmaurice, Jr., term expired, which was sent to the Senate on March 27, 2006.
Peter W. Tredick, of California, to be a Member of the National Mediation Board for a term expiring July 1, 2010. (Reappointment), which was sent to the Senate on July 18, 2006.
  