
    At the invitation of President Jimmy Carter, His Majesty Hassan II, King of Morocco, made a state visit to Washington November 14-15, 1978. In the course of this visit, His Majesty had discussions with President Carter as well as with Secretary of State Cyrus Vance and other members of the American Government. The discussions took place in an atmosphere of friendship and of mutual cooperation. They dealt with bilateral relations as well as with major international problems of common interest.
The President and His Majesty noted with satisfaction that the centuries old ties linking the United States and Morocco are developing in an harmonious fashion. The two Chiefs of State reviewed the many areas of cooperation between Morocco and the United States, particularly those relating to cultural, scientific, and technical cooperation. They decided that the development of energy resources is a sector in which new efforts would be mutually advantageous. They agreed to technical exchanges on the exploitation of shale oil reserves and on the utilization of solar energy and other renewable forms of energy. The two countries expect to sign in the near future a bilateral nuclear cooperation agreement. Such an agreement, which will be in the context of the adherence by both parties to the Nonproliferation Treaty, will permit implementation of a contract for construction of a nuclear research reactor.
President Carter and His Majesty King Hassan also agreed that their governments should seek to expand academic exchanges between Morocco and the United States. They agreed that their governments will jointly sponsor a meeting between academic leaders of the two countries to recommend ways in which educational exchanges could be expanded.
The two parties reaffirmed their desire to see private American firms give their support in the various sectors of social and economic development where Morocco is making considerable efforts. They agreed that the required conditions exist in Morocco for a more active American participation and undertook to facilitate such participation. The two Chiefs of State decided that in the near future a mission under the direction of the U.S. Secretary of Commerce would be sent to Morocco in order to explore the possibilities to develop bilateral trade and to increase investments. The mission will include representatives of the private and public sectors.
President Carter and His Majesty King Hassan acknowledged their identity of view concerning the international problems they examined. For Morocco as for the United States, international relations must be founded on respect for national independence and for the territorial integrity of nations, as well as on willingness to contribute by cooperation and dialogue to the establishment of peace in the world. Within this context, the President expressed appreciation for Morocco's non-aligned, independent policy, and His Majesty welcomed American efforts to resolve global problems.
The two Chiefs of State examined the situation in Africa. The President thanked His Majesty for his description of the situation in northwest Africa and expressed his appreciation for the efforts undertaken by Morocco to end the tension existing there and to create conditions for the establishment of fruitful cooperation between the countries of the region. They agreed that the OAU is the most appropriate framework for the resolution of African problems, and they expressed satisfaction at the decision of the OAU to establish a Committee of Wisemen. Reviewing other points of tension which exist in Africa, the two Chiefs of State condemned foreign intervention and the arms races which have been their result.
The two leaders discussed at length recent developments concerning the Middle East. President Carter, after having outlined to His Majesty the status of the discussions currently underway, explained the American objectives in the peace process, and he reiterated the willingness of the United States to continue to play a role leading to the establishment in the region of a just, durable, and global peace. His Majesty the King, in reaffirming that the Palestinian problem constitutes a fundamental element in the search for a solution and for the establishment of peace in the area, explained that the Moroccan position is based on the decisions made at the Arab Summit meeting held at Rabat in 1974.
With respect to the situation in Lebanon, the two parties noted their commitment to respect the sovereignty, unity, and territorial integrity of that country. They renewed their support for the work of national reconciliation undertaken tinder the aegis of President Sarkis.
His Majesty the King expressed his deep thanks to President Carter for the warm welcome and great friendship shown him during his visit to the United States as well as that extended to the members of the Royal Family and to the Moroccan delegation.
His Majesty invited President Carter to visit Morocco. The President thanked His Majesty and accepted the invitation, with the date and details of the visit to be arranged through diplomatic channels.
  