
    HOUSTON, Texas – Today, U.S. Congressman Dana Rohrabacher (CA-48) announced his endorsement for Ted Cruz for President. Rohrabacher, one of the most vocal advocates in Congress for human rights and freedom around the globe, is currently serving his 13th term in the House of Representatives. He serves as the Chairman of the Europe, Eurasia, and Emerging Threats Subcommittee of the House Foreign Affairs Committee.
"Today I enthusiastically endorse Senator Ted Cruz in his bid for President of the United States," said Congressman Rohrabacher. "Ted is a man of great intellect great courage and the right principles. Having worked so closely with Ronald Reagan, I can identify Reagan's best traits in Ted Cruz. Under Ted's leadership we can put America back on the right track."
"I am thrilled to have Dana's support in this campaign," Cruz said. "Dana is one of the most ardent champions of freedom around the world and a courageous conservative here at home. For over a quarter century, he has fought for lower taxes and government spending. I'm proud to call Dana a friend and our campaign is further strengthened by his support."
"Dana Rohrabacher is a conservative fighter, and his endorsement shows how conservatives determined to put ideas into action are uniting behind Ted Cruz for President," said Ron Nehring, California State Chairman of Ted Cruz for President former Chairman of the California Republican Party.
Mr. Rohrabacher's proven record of fiscal restraint and pro-growth economic policies has earned him praises from trusted conservative groups such as the National Taxpayers Union, Citizens Against Government Waste and the National Federation of Independent Business. He has also been a strong advocate for protecting American citizens by securing our borders and fighting proposals that would provide amnesty to illegal immigrants.
Prior to his first election to Congress in 1988, Dana served as Special Assistant to President Reagan. For seven years he was one of the President's senior speechwriters. During his tenure at the White House, Rohrabacher played a pivotal role in the formulation of the Reagan Doctrine and in championing the cause of a strong national defense. He also helped formulate President Reagan's Economic Bill of Rights, a package of economic reforms that the President introduced in a historic speech before the Jefferson Memorial.
Below is Congressman Rohrabacher's full statement endorsing Ted Cruz for President of the United States:
"Today I enthusiastically endorse Senator Ted Cruz in his bid for President of the United States," said Congressman Rohrabacher. "Ted is a man of great intellect great courage and the right principles. Having worked so closely with Ronald Reagan, I can identify Reagan's best traits in Ted Cruz. Under Ted's leadership we can put America back on the right track. Ted has more foreign policy experience than Ronald Reagan did when he became President. But he has the same focus on what's in the best interest of the American people. Like Reagan, he doesn't apologize for facing foreign policy challenges in a strong and forceful manner but at the same time he realizes that we should not be belligerent toward others who might want to work with us to achieve specific goals nor are we the policemen of the world.
"I have no doubt that Ted will reaffirm America's leadership in thwarting evils like radical Islamic terrorism. Ted is a real freedom fighter both at home and abroad and he's the kind of statesman we need to ensure that Americans will live in security, prosperity and freedom. Consistent with that, Ted is the toughest and most realistic of the candidates on the issue of illegal immigration. Like me, he would prevent illegal immigrants from taking jobs and government benefits that should go to Americans and legal immigrants, thus eliminating the major attraction that draws illegal immigrants into our country."
  