
    Mayor Giuliani & Sen. Clinton Support Sanctuary For Illegal Alliens
"Giuliani's newfound border-security zeal is intended to blunt criticism by GOP rival Mitt Romney of Rudy's pro-sanctuary record as New York mayor. Giuliani has issued Clintonian denials that he supported sanctuary. But the record is clear." (Michelle Malkin, Op-Ed, "Sanctuary Nation Or Sovereign Nation?" National Review, 8/15/07)
Mayor Giuliani Ran New York City With A Sanctuary State Of Mind:
As Mayor, Giuliani Actually Invited More Illegal Immigrants To Come To New York. "Mr. Giuliani said, 'If you come here and you work hard and you happen to be in an undocumented status, you're one of the people who we want in this city. You're somebody that we want to protect, and we want you to get out from under what is often a life of being like a fugitive, which is really unfair.'" (Deborah Sontag, "New York Officials Welcome Immigrants, Legal Or Illegal," The New York Times, 6/10/94)
- ABC News: "Giuliani Inherited The [Sanctuary] Policy, He Reissued It And Seemed To Embrace It." "New York became a sanctuary city, where illegal immigrants enjoy some measure of protection, through an executive order signed by Mayor Ed Koch in 1989, five years before Giuliani became mayor in January 1994. But if Giuliani inherited the policy, he reissued it and seemed to embrace it." (Jake Tapper and Ron Claiborne, "Romney: Giuliani's NYC 'Sanctuary' For Illegal Immigrants," ABC News, 8/8/07)

Both Sen. Hillary Clinton And Mayor Giuliani Defend Sanctuary Cities:
Sen. Clinton Recently Defended New York's Sanctuary Policy, Saying, "I Don't Think There Is Any Choice." MSNBC's TIM RUSSERT: "But you would allow the sanctuary cities to disobey the federal law?" SEN. CLINTON: "Well, I don't think there is any choice." (MSNBC, Democratic Presidential Candidate Debate, Hanover, NH, 9/26/07)
Mayor Giuliani Has Defended His City's Sanctuary Policy, Saying, "'The Choice Becomes For A City What Do You Do?" "'The reality is that they are here, and they're going to remain here,' Mr. Giuliani said of the children. 'The choice becomes for a city what do you do? Allow them to stay on the streets or allow them to be educated? The preferred choice from the point of view of New York City is to be educated.'" (Eric Schmitt, "Giuliani Criticizes G.O.P. And Dole On Immigration," The New York Times, 6/7/96)
Both Sen. Hillary Clinton And Mayor Giuliani Support Amnesty For Illegal Immigrants:
Sen. Clinton Supports A "Path To Legalization" For The 12 Million Illegal Immigrants Here. "Sen. Hillary Clinton of New York said she was disappointed that the Senate did not move forward with its immigration bill and that the cornerstone of any future measure must be a 'path to legalization' for the 12 million undocumented immigrants already here." (Eunice Moscoso, "Democrats Promise Immigration Reform," Cox News Service, 6/30/07)
Mayor Giuliani, To Illegal Immigrants: "If You Want To Work, Pay Your Fair Share And We'll Sign You Up." "In response to a question by Richard Pope, 75, about the 12 million illegal immigrants already here, Giuliani said, 'I would say come forward, get your ... tamper-proof ID card, get photographed and fingerprinted, and we will check you out.' He added, 'If you want to work, pay your fair share and we'll sign you up.'" (Tom Brune, "Giuliani Vows To End Illegal Immigration," [New York] Newsday, 8/15/07)
- Mayor Giuliani: Give A Path To Citizenship To Illegal Aliens Who Have Not Committed Other Crimes. "Mr. Giuliani said the rest of the 12 million to 20 million illegal aliens already here can gain a path to citizenship after a waiting period if they register and learn English. Those key elements generally track President Bush's immigration bill, which was defeated in the Senate earlier this year." (Stephen Dinan, "Giuliani Eyes Citizenship Path For Illegals," The Washington Times, 8/15/07)
- "Rudy Giuliani Would Allow Most Of The Estimated 12 Million Illegal Immigrants In This Country To Stay, Work And Even Become Citizens – Provisions That GOP Hardliners Blast As 'Amnesty.'" (Tom Brune, "Giuliani Vows To End Illegal Immigration," [New York] Newsday, 8/15/07)

  