
    To the Congress of the United States:
I herewith transmit amendments to Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 1977, which I transmitted to you on October 11, 1977. Except as specifically amended hereby, Reorganization Plan No. 2 remains unmodified.
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
November 1, 1977.
AMENDMENTS TO REORGANIZATION PLAN No. 2 of 1977
Prepared by the President and transmitted to the Senate and the House of Representatives in Congress assembled November 1, 1977, pursuant to the provisions of chapter 9 of title 5 of the United States Code.
Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 1977, which was transmitted to the Senate and the House of Representatives in Congress assembled on October 11, 1977, is hereby amended as follows:
A. The title is amended to read: "International Communication Agency." B. Section 1 is amended to read:
"Section 1. Establishment of the International Communication Agency.
"There is hereby established in the executive branch an agency to be known as the International Communication Agency (the "Agency") ."
C. Section 4 is amended to read: Section 4. Associate Directors
"The President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, may appoint four Associate Directors, who shall perform such duties and exercise such powers as the Director may from time to time prescribe. One Associate Director shall be known as the Associate Director for Educational and Cultural Affairs and one Associate Director shall be known as the Associate Director for Broadcasting. Each Associate Director shall be entitled to receive compensation at the rate now or hereafter prescribed by law for Level IV of the Executive Schedule."
D. Section 7(a)(12) is amended to read:
"(12) Section 9(b) of the National Foundation on the Arts and Humanities Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 958(b)), to the extent that such functions are vested in the Secretary of State ;"
E. Section 8(a) is amended to read: "(a) There is hereby established an advisory commission, to be known as the United States Advisory Commission on International Communication, Cultural and Educational Affairs (the "Commission"). The Commission shall consist of seven members who shall be appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent .of the Senate. The members of the Commission shall represent the public interest and shall be selected from a cross section of educational, communications, cultural, scientific, technical, public service, labor and business and professional backgrounds. Not more than four members shall be from any one political party. The term of each member shall be three years except that of the original seven appointments, two shall be for a term of one year and two shall be for a term of two years. Any member appointed to fill a vacancy occurring prior to the expiration of the term for which a predecessor was appointed shall be appointed for the remainder of such term. Upon the expiration of a member's term of office, such member may continue to serve until a successor is appointed and has qualified. The President shall designate a member to chair the Commission."
  