
    The President. I want to welcome Diane Evans and all the members of the Vietnam Women's Memorial Project who are here to do an unveiling of a model of the statue which will be formally commemorated tomorrow on Veteran's Day. I have a few other remarks I want to make in a moment, but let me just say that the people who have worked on this project deserve the thanks of the Nation. They have worked for years and years, and today and tomorrow are very big days for them.
I wanted to give them the opportunity to be seen today by the United States in bringing this model to the White House, where it will be on permanent display. And I want to introduce Diane now to say whatever she'd like to say and then do the unveiling.
[At this point, Ms. Evans, chair, Vietnam Woman's Memorial Project, thanked the President and presented him with a replica of the statue to honor the women who served in the Vietnam war. Sculptor Glenna Goodacre then made brief remarks.]
The President. This is wonderful.
Secretary Babbitt, Mr. Brown, do you want to say anything?
[Secretary of the Interior Bruce Babbitt and Secretary of Veterans Affairs Jesse Brown praised the symbolism of the memorial.]
The President. These documents, first of all, are witnesses that I am going to sign attesting the conveyance of the memorial to the Department of the Interior. This is a proclamation which names the National Women's Veterans Recognition Week, that on this year is Veterans Day, to recognize the special importance of that. So I am going to sign these with all these pens so that all the people here can have——
[At this point, the President signed the memorandum of understanding and the proclamation, and Ms. Evans presented him with a commemorative program.]
The President. Thank you. Thank you all very much.
NAFTA Television Debate
Q. Mr. President, we know you're happy with the performance of the Vice President. Is there going to be any effect on Capitol Hill?
The President. I think so. We'll talk more about it in the press conference in a few minutes.
  