
    Voters Trust Newt To Handle 3am Phone Call
On the day of the CNN/AEI/Heritage foreign policy debate, new polling from Quinnipiac and CNN make it clear who Republicans trust the most to handle the "3am phone call" as president if there is a national emergency: Newt Gingrich.
The poll Quinnipiac's poll, which also shows Newt leading the field for the first time in one of their polls (Gingrich 26, Romney 22), asked the following questions in which respondents made clear they most trust Newt as Commander-in-Chief.
Which Republican candidate do you think would do the best job handling foreign policy?
Gingrich 46%
Romney 16%
Paul 5%
Which Republican candidate do you think is best described as having the knowledge and experience necessary to be a good president?
Gingrich 48%
Romney 22%
Cain 7%
CNN's poll also makes it clear Americans most trust Newt as Commander-in-Chief.
Which Republican candidate is the most qualified to be Commander-in-Chief?
Gingrich 36%
Romney 20%
Perry 12%
Which Republican candidate is most likely to understand complex issues?
Gingrich 43%
Romney 18%
Cain 12%
These polls follow similar results from last week's Fox News poll which shows that voters trust Newt the most with nuclear weapons (30-17%, over Romney) and a CBS News poll that shows voters trust Newt the most to handle an international crisis (31-19%, over Romney).
The reason why voters trust Newt is because he's an experienced national leader who has studied and been involved with national security issues for over 30 years. A few highlights:

Worked with Pentagon on force transformation issues from his earliest years as a Congressman.
Longest serving teacher of the Joint War-Fighting course for Major Generals (started in 1987).
Distinguished Visiting Scholar and Honorary Professor at the National Defense University (since 1983).
Member of the Defense Policy Board, where he received classified intelligence briefings.
Has volunteered hundreds of hours to the Pentagon since leaving the Speakership to advise on numerous issues, including force transformation and 21st century threats.
Co-Chair of the United Nations Reform Commission.
Member of the Hart-Rudman Commission on National Security/21st Century.

For more details on Newt's national security team, click here.
  