
    
  Distinguished Tennessee Republicans Working for Thompson Campaign

McLean, VA -Senator Fred Thompson announced his extensive Tennessee political leadership team today. Senator Howard Baker will serve as the honorary chairman of the Tennessee delegation, joined by 13 honorary co-chairs and 61 honorary state chairs, reflecting the depth of support for Senator Thompson in Tennessee. This leadership team includes two former United States Senate majority leaders, current and former members of Congress, former governors, and every Republican member of the Tennessee state legislature.
"I am grateful for the wide support I'm receiving from my home state of Tennessee," said Senator Fred Thompson. "This group of old friends, former colleagues, and distinguished Tennesseans will provide invaluable support for my bid for the presidency."
Sen. Howard H. Baker, a longtime political mentor of Sen. Thompson, brings a lifetime of distinguished public service as the honorary chairman of the Tennessee leadership team. His long career as a public servant began in 1966, when Baker became the first Republican popularly elected to the U.S. Senate from Tennessee. In addition to gaining national recognition as vice-chairman of the Senate Watergate Committee in 1973, Baker served two terms as Senate Minority Leader and concluded his Senate career in 1985 after two terms as Majority Leader.
There are 13 honorary co-chairs for the Tennessee leadership, an illustrious list of senators, governors, congressmen, and a lieutenant governor. They are Senators Lamar Alexander, Bob Corker, and Bill Frist; Congressmen Marsha Blackburn, David Davis, Jimmy Duncan, Zach Wamp, Van Hilleary, Bill Jenkins, and Ed Bryant, Governors Don Sundquist and Winfield Dunn, and Lieutenant Governor Ron Ramsey.
Senator Lamar Alexander , a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, the third ranking Republican on the Senate Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions Committee, and member of the Senate Rules Committee.
Senator Bob Corker , a member of the Senate Committee on Foreign Relations, Senate Armed Services Committee, and the Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources.
Senator Bill Frist , the immediate past Senate Majority Leader.
Congressman Marsha Blackburn (TN-7), a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee.
Congressman David Davis (TN-1), a member of the House Small Business Committee, House Education and Labor Committee, House Homeland Security Committee, and the Republican House Policy Committee.
Congressman Jimmy Duncan (TN-2), the ranking member of the House committee on Transportation and Infrastructure's Highways and Transit Subcommittee, a member of the House Natural Resources Committee, and the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee.
Congressman Zach Wamp (TN-3), the Ranking Member of the Legislative Branch Subcommittee on Appropriations, as well as a member of the House Appropriations Committee.
Congressman Van Hilleary (TN-4), served in the United States Congress from 1995 to 2003.
Congressman Bill Jenkins (TN-1), served in the United States Congress from 1997 to 2007.
Congressman Ed Bryant (TN-7), served in the United States Congress from 1995 to 2003.
Governor Don Sundquist , served in the United States Congress from 1983-1995 prior to serving as the Governor of Tennessee from 1995-2003.
Governor Winfield Dunn , served as Governor of Tennessee from 1971-1975.
Lieutenant Governor Ron Ramsey , the current Lieutenant Governor of Tennessee and Speaker of the Tennessee State Senate.
Additionally, Senator Thompson has the support of 61 honorary state chairs. They are a distinguished list of Tennessee state Senators and Representatives, including:
Senator Mae Beavers Senator Diane Black Senator Dewayne Bunch
Senator Tim Burchett Senator Rusty Crowe Senator Raymond Finney
Senator Jack Johnson Senator Bill Ketron Senator Randy McNally
Senator Mark Norris Senator Steve Southerland Senator Paul Stanley
Senator Jim Tracy Senator Bo Watson Senator Jamie Woodson
Rep. William Baird Rep. Mike Bell Rep. Harry Brooks
Rep. Kevin Brooks Rep. Stacey Campfield Rep. Glen Casada
Rep. Jim Cobb Rep. Jim Coley Rep. Chris Crider
Rep. Vince Dean Rep. Bill Dunn Rep. Tom DuBois
Rep. Jimmy Eldridge Rep. Richard Floyd Rep. Dale Ford
Rep. Dolores Gresham Rep. Michael Harrison Rep. Beth Harwell
Rep. David Hawk Rep. Joey Hensley Rep. Matthew Hill
Rep. Curtis Johnson Rep. Phillip Johnson Rep. Brian Kelsey
Rep. Ron Lollar Rep. Jon Lundberg Rep. Susan Lynn
Rep. Debra Maggart Rep. Judd Matheny Rep. Jimmy Matlock
Rep. Joe McCord Rep. Gerald McCormick Rep. Steve McDaniel
Rep. Steve McManus Rep. Richard Montgomery Rep. Jason Mumpower
Rep. Frank Niceley Rep. Doug Overbey Rep. Dennis Roach
Rep. Donna Rowland Rep. Charles Sargent Rep. Parkey Strader
Rep. Eric Swafford Rep. Curry Todd Rep. Eric Watson
Rep. Kent Williams
  