
    Today, President Donald J. Trump announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key Administration posts:
Alan R. Swendiman of North Carolina, to be Deputy Director of the Peace Corps.
Mr. Swendiman currently serves as founding Principal at The Capitol Connection, LLC. Previously, he held leadership positions at the Department of Homeland Security, General Services Administration, and the White House as Director of the Office of Administration. Additionally, he served as General Counsel at the Federal Labor Relations Authority and at the United States Agency for International Development. In recognition of his voluntary contributions to the community, including serving on numerous non-profit boards, Mr. Swendiman was named a Point of Light by the Points of Light Foundation.
Arthur B. Culvahouse, Jr., of Tennessee, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Commonwealth of Australia. 
Mr. Culvahouse is Chair Emeritus and Of Counsel to O'Melveny & Myers LLP, an international law firm. Previously, he served as Chair of the firm. He started his career as Chief Legislative Assistant to Senator Howard H. Baker, Jr., and served as Counsel to the President of the United States from March 1987 through January 1989. Mr. Culvahouse served on numerous boards and commissions, including the President's Foreign Intelligence Advisory Board, the Intelligence Oversight Board, the Nuclear Command and Control System Federal Advisory Committee, and the Supreme Court Fellows Commission. He currently serves as a member of the Board of The Brookings Institution and the Board of the Howard H. Baker, Jr., Center for Public Policy. Mr. Culvahouse earned a B.S. from the University of Tennessee and J.D. from the New York University School of Law. In January 1989, President Reagan awarded Mr. Culvahouse the Presidential Citizens Medal, and, in December 1992, Secretary of Defense Cheney awarded him the Defense Medal for Distinguished Public Service.
—
President Donald J. Trump announced his intent to appoint the following individual to a key Administration post:
Brian Harrell of Virginia, to be the Assistant Secretary for Infrastructure Protection at the Department of Homeland Security. 
Mr. Harrell most recently served as Managing Director of Enterprise Security at the Duke Energy Corporation. Prior to his work at Duke Energy, Mr. Harrell was Director for Critical Infrastructure Protection Programs at the North American Electric Reliability Corporation (NERC). While at NERC, Mr. Harrell also served as Director of the Electricity Information Sharing and Analysis Center (E-ISAC). Before coming to the energy sector, Mr. Harrell served in the United States Marine Corps. He holds a bachelor's degree from Hawaii Pacific University and master's degree in Homeland Security from the Pennsylvania State University.
  