
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate two individuals and designate two individuals to serve in his Administration:
The President intends to nominate Michael L. Dominguez, of Virginia, to be Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness. Mr. Dominguez currently serves as Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Manpower and Reserve Affairs. He previously served as Acting Secretary of the Air Force. Prior to that, Mr. Dominguez served as Assistant Director for Space, Information Warfare, and Command and Control in the Office of the Chief of Naval Operations. Earlier in his career, he served as Director of Planning and Analytical Support in the Office of the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Program Analysis and Evaluation. Mr. Dominguez received his bachelor's degree from the United States Military Academy at West Point. Following that, he served in the United States Army for five years, completing his service with the rank of Captain. Mr. Dominquez also received his master's degree from Stanford University.
The President intends to nominate Bradford R. Higgins, of Connecticut, to be Assistant Secretary of State (Resources Management) and Chief Financial Officer of the Department of State. Mr. Higgins currently serves as Senior Advisor to the United States Ambassador to Iraq, Zalmay Khalilzad. He previously served as Senior Advisor to the Assistant Secretary of State for Resources Management and Chief Financial Officer. Prior to that, he was Chief of Planning for the Iraq Reconstruction Management Office in Baghdad, Ira q. Mr. Higgins also served as Chief Financial Officer for the Coalition Provisional Authority. Earlier in his career, he was Managing Director for Bear Stearns Asset Management. Mr. Higgins received his bachelor's degree and his JD from Columbia University.
The President intends to designate Armando J. Bucelo, Jr. of Florida, to be Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Securities Investor Protection Corporation.
The President intends to designate Rudy Pamintuan, of Illinois, to be Chairman of the President's Advisory Commission on Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders.
  