
    NEW YORK, NY – Today, Mike Bloomberg 2020 announced that award-winning journalist and author Timothy L. O'Brien has been named Senior Advisor to the campaign. O'Brien was previously the executive editor of Bloomberg Opinion, has held positions with the New York Times, Wall Street Journal, and HuffPost, is the author of the biography TrumpNation: The Art of Being the Donald, and is a frequent guest and political analyst on national TV programs.
O'Brien will advise the Bloomberg campaign on strategy, policy, and messaging, and serve as a surrogate. He will highlight why Mike's record as a business owner, mayor, and philanthropist makes him the candidate best-equipped to bring Americans together and defeat Donald Trump in the 2020 election – and the candidate who is everything Trump isn't. O'Brien will play a key role in the campaign's strategy to bring the fight to Donald Trump in battleground states now, and not wait for the primaries to be over.
O'Brien has written regularly on all aspects of Trump's political and business dealings since 1990 – as an author, as a reporter for the Times, and as a columnist for Opinion – and is uniquely positioned to speak to the checkered realities of Trump's career and the threat he poses to American values and national security. O'Brien's columns about the Trump presidency, dating back to 2015, have won multiple awards, including recognition from SABEW, the Society of Professional Journalists, and the Deadline Club. Trump sued O'Brien in 2006, claiming TrumpNation unfairly represented his finances and career. Trump lost.
Prior to joining Bloomberg Opinion in 2013, O'Brien was the executive editor of the HuffPost where a series he edited on wounded war veterans received a 2012 Pulitzer Prize for National Reporting. Previously, O'Brien edited the Sunday Business section of the New York Times. He first joined the Times as a reporter in 1997. He helped oversee a team of Times reporters that was a finalist for a Pulitzer Prize in Public Service for coverage of the 2008 financial crisis. The Times series that emerged from that work, "The Reckoning," was also a winner of a 2009 Loeb Award for Distinguished Business Journalism.
O'Brien has also worked for Talk Magazine and National Geographic. In addition to TrumpNation, O'Brien is the author of Bad Bet: The Inside Story of the Glamour, Glitz and Danger of America's Gambling Industry and The Lincoln Conspiracy. He has a B.A. cum laude in literature from Georgetown University, an M.A. in U.S. History from Columbia University, an M.S. in Journalism from Columbia University, and an MBA from Columbia University. He has lived and worked in Europe, South America, and Asia.
  