
    Pool Reports by Zolan Kanno-Youngs, The New York Times 



Sent:
Reports:




November 25, 202110:12

Travel pool report #1 — standing by 
Hello and Happy Thanksgiving from Nantucket! I have the honor of being your pooler today.
The pool has been standing by since about 9:30 am near the Rubenstein property where POTUS is staying during his Thanksgiving visit to Nantucket.
Earlier this morning, the president and First Lady called Al Roker while watching NBC Today's 95th Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade with the Biden family, according to the White House.
I'll tweet a photo. @kannoyoungs



November 25, 202111:11

Travel pool report #2 — rolling to coast guard station
Pool is rolling with the motorcade at 11:04 am to United States Coast Guard Station Brant Point, where POTUS will speak virtually with servicemembers.
First Lady Jill Biden could be seen waving (presumably) to the press van as the Beast rolled on to the main road.
Shortly before the motorcade departed, the president's daughter, Naomi Biden, was seen on a bike ride with her fiancé, Peter Neal and a secret service agent. It seemed like they had stopped to wait for the motorcade to depart before crossing the street.
Passing this along from the White House as well —>
Today, the President and the First Lady are visiting United States Coast Guard Station Brant Point to virtually meet with servicemembers from around the world to thank them for their service and wish them a happy Thanksgiving. The servicemembers meeting the President and the First Lady represent the six branches of the military (Army, Marine Corps, Navy, Air Force, Space Force, and Coast Guard).



November 25, 202111:21

Travel pool report #3 — arrival to coast guard station
Pool arrived at the coast guard station at 11:15 after an uneventful ride. Pool could not see POTUS enter.
Friendly crowds were lined up waving to the motorcade as we made our way here. Most gave thumbs up and applauded. One person appeared to wearing a dinosaur costume. A couple people wore turkey hats.
Pool did spot one gentleman standing on his porch giving the middle finger to the presidential motorcade as we neared the coast guard station.
I will circle back.



November 25, 202111:31

Travel pool report #4 — correx
My mistake that was obviously Naomi Biden, the president's grand daughter on the bike ride. Thanks!



November 25, 202112:05

Travel pool report #5 — brief remarks/// coast guard station
At about 11:44 am, roughly two dozen uniformed members of the coast guard lined up outside the station. At about 11:52 am, the First Lady and the president exited the station and approached the uniformed members.
As she approached, Dr. Biden could be heard saying "hi" to the service members. The president then walked over and was heard telling the Coast Guard "happy thanksgiving."
The president could be seen handing challenge coins to each of the uniformed members. At one point, the first lady joked that she didn't have any coins to give as she shook hands with one sailor. Both the president and First Lady then greeted and shook the hands of each member of the coast guard lined up.
The First Lady told the coast guard members that they would be going to the Christmas tree lighting ceremony in Nantucket tomorrow.
As they walked away, the president stopped to answer a shouted question of what he was thankful for.
"I'm not joking when I say I'm thankful for these guys," the president said, noting that he had seen the coast guard work across the world, including the South China Sea.
Full remarks to come.



November 25, 202112:26

Travel pool report #6 — more remarks and LID
We have a 12:09 drop off and a travel photo lid. Here's additional notes on his remarks. Thanks to members of the pool for the help. Happy thanksgiving
—->>>>
"I'm not joking when I say I'm thankful for these guys – I'm thankful for them, and everybody, I mean it from the bottom of my heart," the president said when asked what he's thankful for.
The president said he's watched the coast guard all over the world.
"I've watched them in the South China Sea, I've watched them in Afghanistan, Iraq. I've watched them in South America. [inaudible] Wherever they are. People wonder what America is? [inaudible] Look and see them. That's who they see. They don't see us here. They see them. It makes me proud."
He was too far to hear the rest of his remarks. POTUS did not answer additional shouted questions, including one on his message to Russia.



November 25, 202114:54

Travel pool report #7 — background on coast guard station
Passing along background from White House on the president's visit to the coast guard station in Nantucket. I'll also tweet a photo. —->>
Military units who met with the President and First Lady virtually
Army: 194th Armored Regiment – Camp Buehring, KuwaitMarine Corps: 11th Marine Expeditionary Unit – at sea on the Arabian GulfNavy: USS Milius (DDG-69) – at sea on the East China SeaAir Force: 837th Training Squadron, Inter-American Air Forces Academy – Lackland Air Force Base, TexasSpace Force: 18th Space Control Squadron – Vandenberg Space Force Base, CaliforniaCoast Guard: Air Station Kodiak – Kodiak, Alaska
Representatives of each military unit who met the President and the First Lady virtually:
Commander Matt Hays, U.S. NavyColonel James Lively, U.S. Marine CorpsLieutenant Colonel Jacob Helgestad, U.S. ArmyFirst Lieutenant Konrad Bennett, U.S. Air ForceLieutenant Colonel Matthew Lintker, U.S. Space ForceCaptain Nathan Coulter, U.S. Coast Guard



November 25, 202119:55

Travel pool report #8 — president's thanksgiving meal
We've got the thanksgiving menu! Passing along this background from the White House—>
The President and the First Lady are celebrating Thanksgiving dinner with their family.
Family members joining them for dinner are: Hunter, Melissa, Ashley, Naomi, Finnegan, Maisy, Natalie, Hunter Jr., and (baby) Beau Biden; and, Peter Neal, Naomi's fiancé.
Attached and below is their Thanksgiving dinner menu:
Thyme-Roasted Turkey
Grandmom Jacobs' Savory StuffingClassic Turkey Gravy
Roasted Kitchen Garden Fall VegetablesSweet Potatoes, Kale, and Button MushroomsCranberry Relish
Apple PiePumpkin PieCoconut Cream PieChocolate Chip Ice Cream




  