
    In addition to the President, Vice President, and Cabinet Members traveling across the country to discuss how the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law will make the lives of Americans better, the White House is continuing a media blitz to carry the message. Senior Administration Officials, Governors, Mayors, Members of Congress, and other leaders are flooding local and national airwaves, speaking with African American and Spanish-language press, and more to demonstrate how the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law will deliver real results for people across the country.
See a sampling of coverage below: 
Administration Officials 
Vice President Harris in the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel: 'An essential requirement to function in the 21st century': VP Kamala Harris stresses importance of access to broadband, clean water'We are really focused on what we need to do around issues like internet and accessible and affordable high speed internet. This is a big issue, I know, for the people in Milwaukee and again around the country,' Harris said Tuesday in an interview with the Journal Sentinel. … Milwaukee Mayor Tom Barrett said Tuesday that the city did not know yet how much it would receive from the bill but called it an 'incredible achievement.' 'It's a win obviously for President Biden, but I view this as more a win for communities around this nation that need to improve their infrastructure,' said Barrett."
Transportation Secretary Pete Buttigieg on WGIR AM 610: On NH Today, Sec Buttigieg Pushes Aside 2024, Focuses on Infrastructure"The Transportation Secretary is hopeful that there will be an expansion of rail service nationally and in New Hampshire. Pete Buttigieg believes that improved rail service could alleviate some of our supply chain issues, and he is optimistic about the development of a commuter line connecting Concord, Manchester, Nashua, and Boston."
National Climate Advisor Gina McCarthy on WCMH (NBC Columbus, Ohio): Central Ohio set to benefit from Biden's infrastructure act"'It was an exciting day yesterday but wait until you see the excitement as these expenditures are made and people see that the United States is investing in ourselves again,' White House Climate Adviser Gina McCarthy said Tuesday. … 'We're talking about replacing those old lead water pipes so every kid can have clean water to drink. We're talking about transforming our transportation system – everything from rail to roads to bridges to our transit system. we're going to modernize it, make it clean, make it electric. We're looking at how we transform all of our buses, all of our fleets to electric vehicles so we can have clean air for our kids sitting in those buses, making sure they're electric instead of those dirty diesels' McCarthy added.
EPA Administrator Michael Regan on The Grio: EPA Administrator Michael Regan on Need for Environmental Justice in U.S."April Ryan talks with EPA Administrator Michael Regan about issues facing low-income and minority communities. Regan is on tour across the U.S. to discuss these issues with the impacted communities.
Energy Secretary Jennifer Granholm on NPR Morning Edition: Climate talks have wrapped up. Granholm weighs in on the highlights"You know, on average, Americans pay a little over $500 a year just repairing their cars for being on, you know, bad roads and bridges. So immediately that is - you know, that money goes out in large part by what is known as formula. So they'll see those dollars go. That's just in the hard infrastructure - port, you know, kind of things. And I would include ports in that because we do have the supply chain crunch. People will start to see those."
Transportation Secretary Pete Buttigieg on MSNBC: "This is a day that I've been waiting for, for as long as I've been secretary of transportation. People who care about transportation in this country have been waiting for this for years, even for decades... and now we're here." #TheReidOut #reiders
Transportation Secretary Pete Buttigieg on MSNBC: "The moment @POTUS's ink is dry in his signature, we'll be getting down to work. We've been preparing for weeks and months … Presidents, Administrations, Congresses have sought to do this…for literally as long as I've been alive. It's finally happening."
Labor Secretary Marty Walsh on FOX News: ".@POTUS' Bipartisan Infrastructure Deal is a historic investment in our infrastructure that will benefit America's communities and families for generations to come."
Labor Secretary Marty Walsh on MSNBC: "By investing in workers and their communities, the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law and #BuildBackBetter framework will help America reach its full potential. Let's get it done!"
Governors
Oregon Governor Kate Brown on KATU (ABC Portland, Oregon): Oregon to get $1.2 billion from infrastructure bill"'It's incredibly important--the interstate bridge replacement project is one of the key congestion projects. It's important to be resilient and safe for Oregonians and Washingtonians, and anyone else traveling on that key infrastructure piece,' [Oregon Governor Kate] Brown said. Another big bonus for Oregon, according to the Governor, is the thousands of jobs this money will bring. She says those will not only be long-lasting and good for maintaining infrastructure, but also for Oregon's economy."
Colorado Governor Jared Polis on KDVR (FOX Denver, Colorado): Colorado Democrats at infrastructure bill-signing share insight on state plans"Gov. Jared Polis hailed it as a big victory for Congress. 'It's good to see congress do something!" Polis said. 'What I think we're all tired of is seeing Republicans and Democrats fighting all day, and when they get together and say, 'You know what? Republicans don't like potholes, Democrats don't like potholes, independents don't like potholes — let's fix it.' To see them come together, get it done, work with the states and work with us, it's really exciting for me as an American and certainly exciting as the governor of Colorado.'"
Connecticut Governor Ned Lamont on WTNH (ABC New Haven, Connecticut): 'We're not gonna be doing tolls. Period': Historic bipartisan infrastructure bill means no tolls in CT, Lamont says "'What this bill means is biggest infrastructure investment since Dwight Eisenhower,' Lamont said. 'It will speed up the commute anywhere from 10 minutes to half an hour. It's gonna take us five years.'"
Mayors
Atlanta Mayor Keisha Lance Bottoms in Ebony Magazine: Atlanta Mayor Keisha Lance Bottoms Shares Excitement Over Signing of Infrastructure Bill"While Capitol Hill is celebrating the move toward more efficient roadways, reimagined broadband, and an investment into additional projects, Atlanta mayor Keisha Lance Bottoms is recognizing the move as a step toward closing the racial wealth gap and delivering the Black community equitable resources. 'Anytime we have an opportunity to help reduce child poverty,' Bottom tells EBONY, 'that impacts the Black community.' Biden has been diligent about prioritizing the needs of Black people whom, the mayor points out, 'are often at the last of the list when it comes to state spending and allocation.' In Atlanta, those needs include addressing crumbling sidewalks, fixing potholes in streets and taking care of bridges that are in need of repair."
St. Louis Mayor Tishaura O. Jones in the St. Louis Post-Dispatch: St. Louis-area leaders scope out infrastructure opportunities as Biden signs plan into law"St. Louis Mayor Tishaura O. Jones … was in Washington for the signing ceremony. Her office touted benefits such as funding to remove lead pipes and money for improved internet access."
U.S. Conference of Mayors President and Dayton Mayor Nan Whaley on MSNBC: "USCM President Mayor @NanWhaley spoke with @MorningJoe about @POTUS signing the bipartisan infrastructure bill today. "We've been working to get an infrastructure bill passed for 3 presidents now. … it's a great day for Ohio cities and American cities across the country."
Oklahoma City Mayor David Holt (R) on CNN: "It means a lot for ... core infrastructure that cities like mine need help with," he says. "This was a very bipartisan effort."
Oklahoma City Mayor David Holt (R) on KLFY (CBS Lafayette, Louisiana): 'Long overdue promise': Biden signs $1.2T infrastructure deal"Oklahoma City Mayor David Holt, a Republican, said cities 'always need help with roads and bridges and that will be most welcome. But we also love what we see in this package for public transit.'"
Tuscon Mayor Regina Romero on Univision AZ: Así es como el plan de infraestructura aprobado por el presidente Biden mejorará la calidad de vida en Tucson, Arizona"Regina Romero, alcaldesa de Tucson, charló con Univision Arizona sobre los beneficios que el plan de infraestructura traerá para la ciudad, especialmente para la clase trabajadora y el medio ambiente de la región."
Miami-Dade County Mayor Daniella Levine Cava on America Teve: Biden firma ley de infraestructura de 1 billón de dólares"Una de las asistentes al acto de la firma fue la alcaldesa del condado Miami Dade, Daniella Levine Cava, quien confía en que este plan traiga al condado más desarrollo. 'Este plan traerá mejores empleos con mejores remuneraciones, además implica el desarrollo de muchas áreas que son importantes para que podamos competir', dijo."
Houston Mayor Sylvester Turner on KPRC (NBC Houston, Texas): Mayor Turner speaks from White House on impact of new infrastructure bill"'These are definitive steps that will definitely impact the city of Houston,' Turner said. 'That's why I'm excited to be here at the White House today to witness the signing.' He says a good portion of the bill will impact our city in a major way. His team is already planning for upgrades throughout the city. 'When it comes to lead pipes, people deserve clean water, especially for those communities that have been underserved and under-resourced,' Turner said. 'There are resources in this bill for that. When it comes, for example, to the winter storm that we faced in Texas, over 200 people lost their lives.'"
U.S. Conference of Mayors President and Dayton Mayor Nan Whaley on WKEF (FOX Dayton, Ohio): Roadway projects getting a second chance with Biden's new infrastructure package"Dayton Mayor Nan Whaley, in attendance at Monday's bill signing, said this package is needed for Ohioans. 'When you're trying to get from Ohio into Kentucky, it's really hard to do because the Brent Spence Bridge is closed half the time,' Whaley said. 'You know, that's affecting our commerce. It's affecting people going to work. It's affecting people getting to daycare and to provide for their kids.'"
Mesa Mayor John Giles on KPHO (CBS Phoenix, Arizona): Mesa mayor says bipartisan infrastructure deal will impact all Arizonans"Mesa Mayor John Giles said the bipartisan infrastructure bill signed by President Biden is going to have a major impact on Arizona. Just about everyone in the state will feel the effects from new roads to expanded broadband. 'Everyone's life is in some way going to be in some way touched by this legislation," Giles said. "This infrastructure bill doesn't discriminate as to who is going to be on the receiving end. Absolutely folks in urban areas are going to see new freeways, new airports, but also those in rural Arizona are going to see things like broadband expansion, more transportation.'"
Philadelphia Mayor Jim Kenney on WPVI (ABC Philadelphia, Pennsylvania): How Philadelphia region will benefit from Biden's $1 trillion infrastructure bill"Within the city, we're looking to extend broadband to every neighborhood and every kid,' said Kenney. The funds would also be used to improve schools. 'We're hoping that we'll be able to use some of the money for our aging schools with asbestos and lead,' Kenney said. The funds can also provide opportunities that may help reduce crime. 'We're also looking for job training dollars to get some of our young people in the right direction,' said Kenney."
Members of Congress
Congressman Ruben Gallego (AZ-07) in AZ Central: Afirman que plan de infraestructura mejorará la vida de millones de latinos"'El Plan de Empleos e Inversión en la Infraestrucutra, aprobado la semana pasada por el Congreso, "mejorará la vida de millones de latinos', afirmó el presidente del comité de acción política del Caucus Hispano en el Congreso, Rubén Gallego. … 'Los latinos han experimentado desventajas considerables durante la pandemia", afirmó Gallego, representante demócrata de Arizona. 'Pero ahora, gracias al acuerdo de infraestructura del presidente Biden, los latinos de todo el país obtendrán acceso a oportunidades económicas y mejorarán su salud gracias a que tendrán agua más limpia, un mejor transporte y millones de empleos para ayudarlos a mantener a sus familias'."
Congressman Steven Horsford (NV-04) in Las Vegas Sun Op-Ed: Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act is a huge win for Nevada"The big winners in the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act are Nevada workers. For years, the state's clean energy sector has boomed, thanks to our abundant sunlight and open space. Before the pandemic, employment in clean energy was growing nearly twice as fast as overall state job growth."
  