
    The following listing includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the White House Press Office and not included elsewhere in this issue.
November 5
The President returned to the White House from Camp David, Md.
The President met at the White House with:
—Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs;
—Senators J. Bennett Johnston of Louisiana, Mark O. Hatfield of Oregon, and Pete V. Domenici of New Mexico;
—Mr. and Mrs. William Fisher of Carnegie, Pa., and Mr. and Mrs. Marvin Porterfield of Martinsburg, W. Va., hosts of meetings the President had in their homes with private citizens on July 12 and 13;
—Joe Reed, president of the Alabama Democratic Black Caucus, and black civic and community leaders from
Alabama;
—Senator Alan K. Simpson of Wyoming.
The White House announced that the President is and has been closely monitoring and receiving regular reports on efforts to obtain the release of the American Embassy staff in Tehran, who are being detained by Iranian students. A meeting of high-level officials was held this morning in the White House to review the situation and to consider further approaches which might be appropriate.
The White House announced that in reaction to the killing of 5 people and the wounding of 12 others during a demonstration of the Workers' Viewpoint Organization in Greensboro, N.C., on November 3, the President has spoken with Attorney General Benjamin Civiletti, and he has directed that he cooperate fully with local officials and that the Department of Justice pursue its own investigation under Federal law to do everything possible to bring the perpetrators to justice.
November 6
The White House announced that the President met with senior foreign policy advisers this morning to discuss the situation in Iran. The United States has been given assurances by the authorities in Iran that the safety and well-being of Americans will be protected. The United States expects that these assurances will be honored. The White House further announced that in the meantime, the administration is doing everything possible to secure the release of the Embassy staff. The administration does not consider public comment on these efforts to be appropriate or helpful while they are in progress.
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Frank B. Moore, Assistant to the President for Congressional Liaison;
—U.S. Ambassador to Saudi Arabia John C. West;
—Vice President Walter F. Mondale:
—James T. McIntyre, Jr., Director of the Office of Management and Budget;
—Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance, Ambassador Robert S. Strauss, Personal Representative of the President to the Middle East peace negotiations, and Sol M. Linowitz, whom the President has designated as Ambassador Strauss' successor in that position;
—the National Security Council;
—former Attorney General Ramsey Clark and William G. Miller, Senate Intelligence Committee staff member, who are acting as the President's emissaries in efforts to secure the release of the American Embassy staff.
The President transmitted to the Congress the 1978 annual report of the Director of the National Cancer Program, and the 1976, 1977, and 1978 annual reports of the Department of Health, Education, and Welfare on Occupational Safety and Health.
November 7
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—the Democratic congressional leadership;
—Mr. Moore;
—former Senator Muriel Humphrey of Minnesota;
—Secretary of the Interior Cecil D. Andrus, Smart E. Eizenstat, Assistant to the President for Domestic Affairs and Policy, Anne Wexler, Assistant to the President, and representatives of national environmental groups; —Mayor Carl Officer of East St. Louis, Ill.; —Senator J. James Exon of Nebraska.
The President participated in the briefing by administration officials on the strategic arms limitation treaty given for civic and community leaders from Connecticut, New Jersey, Oregon, and Puerto Rico in the East Room at the White House.
November 8
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Vice President Mondale, Secretary of the Treasury G. William Miller, Charles L. Schultze, Chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers, Alfred E. Kahn, Advisor to the President on Inflation, Mr. Eizenstat, and Mr. Mclntyre;
—Members of the House of Representatives;
—Mr. Moore;
—Senator Howell Heftin of Alabama;
—Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan of New York;
—Members of the House of Representatives. The White House announced that the President will postpone his visit to Canada to remain at the White House and continue to closely monitor the situation in Iran and direct efforts to secure the release of the Americans there. The visit to Canada will be rescheduled to a mutually convenient date early next year. The President's decision to postpone this visit is not based on new developments or any expectation of an immediate change in the situation in Iran. Rather, it is based upon his desire to remain in Washington, where his foreign policy advisers are immediately available and so that he can continue to monitor closely and direct the situation there.
November 9
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Vice President Mondale, Secretary Vance, Deputy Secretary of State Warren M. Christopher, Secretary of Defense Harold Brown, Hedley W. Donovan, Senior Adviser to the President, Hamilton Jordan, Assistant to the President, Lloyd N. Cutler, Counsel to the President, and Dr. Brzezinski;
—Mr. Moore.
The President transmitted to the Congress the 1978 annual report on the Administration of the National Sickle Cell Anemia, Cooley's Anemia, Tay-Sachs, and Genetic Diseases Act.
The President declared a major disaster for the Territory of American Samoa as a result of flooding, mudslides, and landslides, beginning on October 28, which caused extensive property damage.
  