
    Pool Reports by Emily Goodin, Daily Mail 



Sent:
Reports:




November 5, 202209:35 EDT

FLOTUS travel pool #1 - departure to Phoenix
Good morning on this beautiful fall day from DC. I'll be your pooler for Dr. Biden's trip to Arizona and Texas.
Motorcade departed the White House at 8:41 am and arrived at JBA at 9:02 am.
FLOTUS is wearing maroon pants suit. She boarded at 9:05 am.
Executive One Foxtrot is wheels up shortly. Flight time is about five hours.
Here is her schedule for the day (all times are local - Phoenix is -3 from EDT):
At 11:15 AM, the First Lady will attend and deliver remarks at a political event for the Arizona Education Association (AEA) with National Education Association (NEA) President Becky Pringle in Phoenix, AZ. This event will be open press and pooled for TV.
At 12:15 PM, the First Lady will attend and deliver remarks at a political event for Senator Mark Kelly in Phoenix, AZ. This event will be open press and pooled for TV.
At 1:15 PM, the First Lady will attend and deliver remarks at a political finance event for Senator Mark Kelly in Phoenix, AZ. This event will be covered by a print pooler only.



November 5, 202211:00 MST

FLOTUS travel pool #2 - Phoenix arrival and comment on election
Executive One Foxtrot was wheels down Phoenix at 10:40 am local time (note all times will be local; Phoenix is -3 EDT). It's sunny and 61 degrees.
Dr. Biden disembarked at 10:50 am.
Asked how she felt about Democrats chances in the election, she said: "Good" and gave a thumbs up.
Flight was bumpy at times but otherwise uneventful with no visitors to the press cabin.
At 10:53 am the motorcade is rolling to the first event, a canvassing kickoff with the Arizona Education Association.
Here is background on the event from the East Wing:
Background attributable to the Arizona Education Association:
The Arizona Education Association advocates for public school students, teachers, and staff in Arizona. Representing 20,000 union members across the state, AEA is the largest professional association for public school employees in Arizona. AEA members range from certified teachers, community college professors, counselors, speech pathologists, bus drivers, secretaries, retired educators and student teachers and they belong to more than 150 local affiliates, who are dedicated to our mission of Keeping the Promise of Quality Public Education. AEA members are passionate about advocating for the quality public schools that their students deserve, building a more just and fair future for all their students, and supporting working families across the state.
Just like they did during the #RedforEd movement, in the 2022 election Arizona's educators have partnered with parents to support candidates that will expand opportunities for students, respect educators as the professionals they are, and protect our democracy. Educators and parents know that education is on the ballot in Arizona. This election is an opportunity for educators, parents, and education supporters to send a clear message to elected officials that quality public education is our number one priority. That's why hundreds of AEA members have spent their weekends knocking on doors for AEA's recommended candidates.
On Saturday, Jill Biden will join her fellow educators to kick off Arizona Education Association's get out the vote canvass in Phoenix outside of the AEA's office. At the conclusion of the event, AEA members and event attendees will leave to knock on doors and speak to voters in support of pro-public education candidates.
Speakers (in order of appearance in the program):AZ State Superintendent of Public Instruction Kathy HoffmanAZ State Senator Martín Quezada, Candidate for State TreasurerKris Mayes, Candidate for AZ Attorney GeneralAdrian Fontes, Candidate for AZ Secretary of StateU.S. Representative Ruben Gallego (AZ-7)Arizona Education Association President Marisol GarciaNational Education Association President Becky PringleJill Biden, educator and long-time NEA member
Other Notable People In Attendance:AZ State Senator Raquel Teran, AZ Democratic Party ChairAZ State Senator Christine Marsh, 2016 AZ Teacher of the YearAZ Senator Lela AlstonAZ State Rep. Judy SchubertAZ State Rep. Mitzi Epstein, Candidate for AZ State SenateAZ Rep. Jennifer Longdon, Assistant Democratic LeaderStephen Gilman, 10th District Vice President, International Association of Fire FightersMelissa Osborne, President, Association of Flight Attendants-CWA Local Executive Council 35Jim McLaughlin, President of UFCW Local 99Reyna Montoya, Aliento Founder and Executive Director



November 5, 202212:10 MST

FLOTUS travel pool #3 - Arizona Education Association event
FLOTUS arrived at the Arizona Education Association at 11:03 am.
She spoke to an outdoor rally of about 240 people made up of teachers and those in the education community.
She said she's been traveling to so many states that when they walked on stage National Education Association President Becky Pringle told her "'Jill you're in Arizona' so she could remind me where we were."
FLOTUS: "Right now we are fighting for the future of our country. Educators, especially here in Arizona, helped elect my husband Joe, because he knows how to get things done."
She framed the election as a choice between Democrats and Republicans, echoing POTUS' arguments the GOP will cut social programs and cut taxes for wealthy.
FLOTUS: "This election is a choice between two drastically different visions for our country. In one, Democrats up and down the ballot, keep going to build on the historic progress that we've made. And in the other Republicans are ramping up their attacks on workers, standing with corporations. They're putting Social Security and Medicare on the chopping block and trying to pass a nationwide abortion ban. They're once again giving tax cuts to corporations and the wealthy. And that's just not fair. Is it?"
The crowd roared back: "No."
She encouraged Arizonans to vote: "This year races up and down the ballot are going to be so close. And the only way that we can win is by showing up."
More: "And we have to encourage others to vote as well. No matter how busy they are. So put voting at the top of your to do list."
"This election is going to come down to the little moments. One ballot cast - yours. One phone call to a neighbor who may be forgotten to vote."
After her remarks she worked the rope line. The crowd shouted "Dr. Biden. Dr. Biden. Dr. Biden."
Motorcade is rolling at 11:45 am to the next stop, a GOTV event with Senator Mark Kelly.



November 5, 202212:55 MST

FLOTUS travel pool #4 - GOTV event with Sen. Kelly
Motorcade arrived at 12 pm at Senator Kelly's campaign office.
Dr. Biden and the Senator are speaking at a get out the vote event outside his office. There are about 100 people in the crowd.
A large blue truck reading "go vote Arizona" was parked as the background. The crowd waved Mark Kelly for Senate signs.
Note Gabby Giffords is not here but Sen. Kelly told the crowd she sends her best.Sen. Kelly: "It's important that we vote early."
More: "And I want to thank all of you for all the hard work you've done over these many months. Running a campaign and being successful in something like this, it is not easy, and it takes a big team. So, in these final weeks, you have all worked incredibly hard. And I just want to thank you from the bottom of my heart."
He referred to Arizona's abortion law that outlaws abortions after 15 weeks: "I've got two daughters and granddaughters who now have fewer rights than my mother or my grandmother."
He discussed how he and Republican nominee Blake Masters differ on Social Security, Medicare, prescription drug prices and taxes on wealthy.
Kelly pointed out Masters questioned the results of the 2020 election: "But then he stopped doing it for a while. And then he got a phone call from a guy in Florida. And now he's back at it again questioning not only the 2020 election … what's really bad he's questioning an election that still hasn't happened yet. Three days out, he's questioning the 2022 election."
Jill Biden told the crowd as a teacher she gives homework so "do your homework" and get people to vote.
In her remarks she repeatedly urged people to vote.
She also praised Sen. Kelly for "reaching across the aisle and getting things done."
She told the crowd she likes to make to do lists: "Well this election is going to be won or lost on where voting falls on your To Do lists."
"Number One," a woman in the crowd shouted.
FLOTUS: "What you do on November 8 will not just set the course for the future of Arizona, you'll decide the future of our country as well."
"We have to use these last three days to get out the vote."
More: "Joe, Mark and the Democrats up and down the ballot have gotten so much done."
She said Senator Kelly was "was critical to passing the law that will fix roads and bridges right here."
More: "This race is going to be close so put voting at the top of your to do list."
"Help us make sure that your friends and your neighbors and your parents and your school groups and your book groups, all go out and vote. That's how we win."
She closed with: "It starts with you. It starts with all of us digging a little bit deeper, working a little bit harder, and believing that yes together we will win."She and Senator Kelly worked the rope line after remarks. Pool observed Senator Kelly getting in the motorcade after the event.
At 12:48 pm the motorcade is rolling to the next stop, a fundraiser for Senator Kelly at a private home.



November 5, 202214:21 MST

FLOTUS travel pool #5 - fundraiser
The motorcade arrived at the Mark Kelly fundraiser at 1:18 pm.
The fundraiser is at the home Georgia and Mike Michelson, who owns a stake in the Philadelphia Eagles. It's a beautiful stone home with massive floor to ceiling glass windows and a manicured green lawn.
The speaking program was outside on a patio. There were around 30 people there.
Gabby Giffords was present and she made short remarks.
Giffords: "This election is so important. … Mark has served our country in so many ways. We need him in the Senate. … We can't do it alone."
Senator Mark Kelly talked about his military service. He noted Gabby asked him out first about a year after they met.
Dr. Biden: "That's not true."
Kelly confirmed it was. "Our first date was the Florence state prison."
"Gas chamber," Giffords said.
Kelly: "We went to death row on our first date so it's been uphill from there."
He talked about legislation he has helped pass in Congress and expressed confidence he will beat Blake Masters.
"We're going to beat him. …. I think this election is gonna surprise a lot of folks out there especially people that write and report on elections. I think there's gonna be a surprise and I think it's gonna, you know, favor us. I feel really good."
More: "I've built a campaign to win. Now it's just about turning people out. But thank you for all of you being here today because running an operation to win a Senate seat in any state, it can be a little bit of a heavy lift, and it takes resources. So thank you for being part of that team that's going to help us get across the finish line."
He introduced Dr. Biden, noting she welcomed his brother home from space on his last mission, waiting until 3 am and then flying home to teach the next day at 8 am. He also noted Biden is the sponsor of the USS Gabrielle Giffords.
Dr. Biden thanked the hosts and complemented their home. "I may not leave. … This is so beautiful."
"But as we were coming in, they said oh you know Mike owns the Eagles and the Eagles have had a great season. The Phillies are doing great."
She noted she is headed to Houston next, which is where Game Six is taking place.
She also repeated the story about her first date with President Biden and that she was glad she voted for him.
She attacked Republicans as extremists: "So when extremists go after the rights that most Americans support like a woman's right to choose or where they stand in the way of affordable prescriptions or clean energy - really they're letting down all Americans."
She repeated the story she has told before about her high school friend's struggle to get an abortion pre-Roe v Wade and how she helped with the recovery.
FLOTUS: "I was shocked when the Dobbs decision came out. It was devastating. I felt like how could we go back to those times? And Mark knows, Mark knows we can't go back."
She said of Republicans: "They're making it harder to vote, which is so unbelievable and I've been to so many states now where that really is a problem."
The motorcade is rolling back to the airport at 2:16 pm.



November 5, 202215:13 MST

FLOTUS travel pool #6 - airport arrival
The motorcade arrived back at the airport at 2:39 pm.
FLOTUS took a photo with advance staff before boarding.
She boarded at 2:41 pm.
Executive One Foxtrot is wheels up shortly for Houston where Dr. Biden will overnight ahead of GOTV events there tomorrow.



November 5, 202219:52 CDT

FLOTUS travel pool #7 - Houston arrival
Executive One Foxtrot was wheels down in Houston at 7 pm local time.
Dr. Biden disembarked at 7:14 pm.
At 7:15 pm the motorcade was headed to the RON. That's it for today. More tomorrow…




  