
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

Advances in science and medicine have given millions of Americans the opportunity to enjoy longer, healthier lives. Older Americans now constitute a growing percentage of our Nation's population, and, together, they represent a rich source of knowledge and insight for younger generations. By providing senior citizens with opportunities to share their wisdom and experience, we not only strengthen and enrich this country but also affirm the inherent dignity and worth of every human being, regardless of his or her age.
Today, more and more employers and other Americans are recognizing the enormous talent and potential of senior citizens. One of the greatest threats to fulfilling that potential, however, comes from Alzheimer's disease.
Alzheimer's is a debilitating brain disease that, over a period of years, robs its victims of their memory and intellect, their health, their independence, and eventually their lives. Alzheimer's disease also disrupts the lives of thousands of Americans who must endure the physical, emotional, and financial strains of caring for an affected parent, spouse or sibling.
Fortunately, the families of Alzheimer's patients are not alone in their struggle with this terrible disease. In communities across the country, health care providers, social workers, and other concerned professionals and volunteers have joined forces to promote public awareness of Alzheimer's and to help families that are affected by it. Federal, State, and local governments are working to improve the delivery of services for people with Alzheimer's, and researchers in both the public and private sectors are striving to learn how we can prevent and eventually cure the disease. Scientists and physicians are also developing new methods to manage symptoms of Alzheimer's, as well as facilities that are better equipped for the special needs of people with the disease and related disorders.
Our ultimate goal, however, must be to eliminate the need for such treatments and facilities. Accordingly, under the leadership of the National Institute on Aging, the Federal Government will continue to conduct and support biomedical research on Alzheimer's disease. During the past few years, we have learned much about the basic processes of Alzheimer's and drawn closer to identifying its causes; we will now seek further progress in these areas, and we will place special emphasis on the discovery and development of therapeutic drugs. Such efforts will be crucial to finding ways of treating and preventing Alzheimer's disease.
As an expression of our Nation's commitment to protecting the health of all older Americans, the Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 36, has designated November 1991 and November 1992 as "National Alzheimer's Disease Month" and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of these months.
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim November 1991 and November 1992 as National Alzheimer's Disease Month. I encourage all Americans to observe these months with appropriate programs and activities.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this twelfth day of November, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-one, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and sixteenth.

GEORGE BUSH
  