
    Throughout the weekend, members of the Clinton campaign's Veterans and Military Retirees Steering Committee represented Hillary at events around the country. From Arkansas to Washington, committee members honored their fellow veterans by participating in Veterans Day parades, ceremonies and other grass-roots activities. In addition, the campaign continued announcing prominent veterans as members of the National Veterans and Military Retirees Steering Committee. Yesterday, the campaign announced 36 new national co-chairs to its steering committee and unveiled a new video featuring a cross-generation of veterans discussing their support of Hillary Clinton for President. There are more that 1,200 veterans and military retirees who have joined Hillary Clinton's national and state veterans' steering committees.
"I am honored to have the support of our men and women who have served our nation with distinction," said Clinton. "Our veterans have been on the frontlines of defending our democracy, and as President, I will fulfill our commitment to them."
Below is an overview of the activity taking place in various states:

In Iowa and New Hampshire this week, the campaign will announce an extensive list of veterans who support Hillary for President.
In South Carolina, on Sunday, Maryland Lt. Governor Brown, who served in the war in Iraq, participated in the annual Charleston Veterans Day parade as well as multiple events honoring veterans around the state. A phone bank by veterans to South Carolina veterans has been taking place since last Monday.
In Arkansas, committee members helped with Veterans Day events form Bentonville to Fort Payne.
In California, committee members honored their fellow veterans at a community event sponsored by the League of United Latin American Citizens in Ventura while other members did the same at the Solana Beach Veterans Day Ceremony.
Committee-member, Joe Bello, marched in the New York City Veterans Day Parade.
In Pennsylvania, steering committee members are traveling to the Vietnam Wall in Scranton, PA to honor veterans and hear Senator Casey and Congressman Carney keynote a Veterans Day ceremony.
In Texas, supporters were in the San Antonio Veterans Day Parade and attended the Fort Sam Houston National Veterans Cemetery Ceremony and the Buffalo Soldiers Ceremony at the Old San Antonio Veterans National Cemetery.
In Washington, supporters attended the Evergreen-Washelli Memorial Park 58th Annual Tribute.
In West Virginia, National Co-Chair General Jack Yeager and his wife Barbara joined the Charleston Veterans Day parade.

  