
    President Biden is committed to delivering for rural communities across the country. The Build Back Better Framework makes a transformative investment in Rural America's economic future by creating good-paying jobs, investing critical resources in rural communities and tackling climate change. In an interview with Progressive Farmer, Special Assistant to the President for Agriculture & Rural Policy, Kelliann Blazek outline the key benefits for rural America. The BBB Framework will:

Empower rural regions and support locally-led rural economic development by creating a Rural Partnership Program to ensure rural communities have access to federal program
Invest in children and caregiving by providing free preschool for all 3- and 4-year old children, which will build the supply of child care in rural America and enable most American families to cut their child care spending on young children by more than half.
Expand affordable health care by closing the Medicaid coverage gap while also lowering health care costs for those buying coverage through the Affordable Care Act by extending the American Rescue Plan's lower premiums.
Combat climate change by creating clean energy jobs and providing resources to farmers, ranchers, and forestland owners, supporting their efforts to reduce emissions.

Read more on how the Build Back Better Framework will help rural communities HERE.
Progressive Farmer: Biden Reflects Urgency to 'Get Things Done' and Pass Infrastructure, Domestic Agenda Bills[Chris Clayton, 11/04/21]
OMAHA (DTN) -- After key election losses such as the Virginia governor's race, House Democrats are seeking to move ahead on President Joe Biden's domestic policies with an expected vote on the $1.75 trillion "Build Back Better Act."
The newest version of the bill was sent to the House Rules Committee on Wednesday afternoon with the committee holding a marathon late-night hearing to detail rules for debate if the bill gets to a floor vote this week.
Speaking at the White House on Wednesday, Biden said he understands people want to see Democrats "get things done." The president said he's pushing members of his party to give final passage to the $1.2 trillion infrastructure bill, as well as the mix of social programs and tax changes in the Build Back Better Act.
"People are upset and uncertain about a lot of things -- from COVID, to school, to jobs, to a whole range of things, and the cost of a gallon of gasoline," Biden said. "And so, if I'm able to pass -- sign into law my Build Back Better initiative, I'm in a position where you're going to see a lot of those things ameliorated quickly and swiftly. And so that has to be done."
Still, Biden's agenda remains caught between moderates and liberals in his own party, leaving open questions of whether House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., can schedule a floor vote on the bill.
The House Agriculture Committee released details highlighting $87.4 billion in spending on agriculture, including $28 billion for conservation programs, $27 billion for forestry, $18 billion for rural development, $12 billion for farmer debt relief and $2 billion for agricultural research.
On taxes, the bill changes the current 21% rate and provides a tax cut to 18% for corporations with taxable income below $400,000. The tax is increased to 26.5% for corporations with incomes higher than $5 million. The bill also sets a minimum 15% corporate tax for companies that zero out their tax liability.
The bill also boosts the valuation benefit of Section 2032 A for farmland, raising the land value deduction from $750,000 to $11.7 million.
The bill also increases taxes on higher-income people and limits deductions of qualified business income (Section 199A) for married couples with more than $500,000 in taxable income on a joint return.
For families, the bill extends the $3,600 Child Tax Credit and expands the Earned Income Credit for low-wage workers without children.…The bill also includes a provision allowing Health and Human Services officials to negotiate certain prescription drug prices for Medicare.
Despite earlier objections from the Senate parliamentarian, the House bill also includes immigration provisions, including granting permanent residency status for farmworkers and other undocumented immigrations who were considered essential workers early in the pandemic. The bill also includes legal immigration status for children who came into the U.S. with their parents, known as "Dreamers." The White House stated the bill also will reform the immigration system to reduce the visa backlog.
The White House released a fact sheet on rural communities, championing the "landmark new program," the Rural Partnership Program, which will provide $970 million for states and tribes to use for competitive rural economic grant programs.
Kelliann Blazek, special assistant to the president for agriculture and rural policy, highlighted the Rural Partnership Program in an interview with DTN. Blazek noted that eight out of 10 counties with high levels of poverty are in rural areas of the country and have fewer resources for local development.
"So, we're taking a bottom-up approach and putting rural communities in the driver's seat so they have the tools and resources to evaluate their goals and then we'll help them get there," Blazek said.
The White House also spotlighted $9.7 billion in loans for rural electric providers and a separate $2.88 billion for electric loans to boost renewable energy. The investment is the largest since the Rural Electrification Act for providing energy to rural America, the White House stated.
On the $28 billion in conservation spending, the bill increases funds for USDA's major conservation programs to focus on climate-smart agricultural practices. That includes $9 billion for the Environmental Quality Incentives Program (EQIP), $7.45 billion for the Regional Conservation Partnership Program (RCPP), $4.1 billion for the Conservation Stewardship Program (CSP), and $1.7 billion for the Agricultural Conservation Easement Program. The White House stated that "at its peak," the climate-smart programs could reach as many as 130 million crop acres."The president believes farmers and ranchers are part of the solution when it comes to climate change, and from the very start of this administration, we've been seeking input from and listening to farmers and ranchers and rural communities to inform our climate agenda," Blazek said.
…
Rep. Jim McGovern, D-Mass., chairman of the House Rules Committee, pointed to the benefit of the reconciliation package and the $1.2 trillion Senate-passed infrastructure bill, which is tied up because House Democrats will not pass it until they vote on the Build Back Better Act. McGovern noted Republicans could not get an infrastructure bill passed when President Donald Trump was in charge and Republicans controlled Congress.
"Every week was infrastructure week," McGovern said. He added, "The reason I am anxious to get both of these bills done is people want us to deliver. They are tired of talk and no action. And, you know, they are tired of the polarization. And so, you know, people are talking about these bills as a political calculation, but at the end of the day, you know, if we can get this done, it's going to be meaningful in people's lives," McGovern said.
Speaking to the Rules Committee, House Agriculture Committee Chairman David Scott, D-Ga., highlighted the climate benefits using the conservation programs. "All of farm bill conservation programs are overprescribed and have backlogs," Scott said. "Producers who want to help sequester or reduce greenhouse-gas emissions will be able to carry out these practices with funds in this bill."
…
The bill also includes $960 billion in biofuel grants, as well as funding for sustainable fuels and a new tax credit for those programs.DTN highlighted the conservation and biofuel aspects of bill with "Ag Funding in President Biden's Agenda:" Climate-Smart Ag, Biofuels Become Key Elements in Build Back Better Act (dtnpf.com)
  