
    Pool Reports by Noah Robertson, The Christian Science Monitor 



Sent:
Reports:




November 6, 202208:41

WH Travel Pool Report #1 – Good Morning
The pool is Covid tested and loaded into the van. Were moving out from the hotel now.
Hope you all enjoyed that extra hour. I know your pool did.



November 6, 202210:03

WH Travel Pool Report #2 – Rolling with Motorcade
The pool joined the presidential motorcade at 10:02 am.
It’s raining now. As we were being swept, someone in a truck rolled down his window across the street and booed.



November 6, 202210:08

WH Travel Pool Report #3 – Church Arrival
The motorcade briefly saw President Biden enter St. Joseph’s on the Brandywine at 10:05 am. Holding now in the parking lot.



November 6, 202211:00

WH Travel Pool Report #4 – Rolling
The president exited church at 10:57 am. He shook hands with the priests and spoke to a congregant on the way back to his car.
We’re rolling at 10:59 am.



November 6, 202211:06

WH Travel Pool Report #5 – POTUS Drop Off & Lunch Lid
The motorcade reached the president’s residence at 11:04 am.
Back to the hotel, where we have a lunch lid until 2:25 pm.



November 6, 202215:53

WH Travel Pool Report #6 – Rolling
The pool joined the presidential motorcade at 3:52 pm.



November 6, 202216:03

WH Travel Pool Report #7 – DANG & Liftoff
The president boarded AF1 at 4:02 pm in a light blue suit.
Were in the small plane today so sending this before the pool boards for liftoff.
Per the WH
Traveling with the President via motorcade en route Delaware Air National Guard Base:
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of StaffAnnie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office OperationsKarine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press SecretaryKate Berner, Deputy Assistant to the President & Principal Deputy Director of CommunicationsAshley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office OperationsTravis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip DirectorSheila Grant, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Presidential SpeechwriterCarla Frank, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of the Office of Political Strategy & OutreachTerry Wolff, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for the Middle East and North Africa, National Security Council



November 6, 202216:04

WH Travel Pool Report #8 – Travel Party
Per the WH
Traveling with the President aboard Air Force One en route Westchester County, New York:
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of StaffAnnie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office OperationsKarine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press SecretaryKate Berner, Deputy Assistant to the President & Principal Deputy Director of CommunicationsAshley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office OperationsTravis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip DirectorSheila Grant, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Presidential SpeechwriterCarla Frank, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of the Office of Political Strategy & OutreachTerry Wolff, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for the Middle East and North Africa, National Security Council



November 6, 202217:09

WH Travel Pool Report #9 – Touchdown & Rolling
AF1 landed at Westchester County Airport at 4:48 pm. Its cloudy and cool.
The president exited the plane at 5:00 pm. to cheers from the NY pols. He greeted Gov Hochul first and then huddled with the four. He and the governor had an extended conversation before getting into the car.
We’re off at 5:07 pm.
Per the WH
Greeting the President upon arrival at Westchester County Airport:
Kathy Hochul, governor of New YorkWilliam J. Hochul Jr.Senator Kirsten Gillibrand (NY)Rep. Jamaal Bowman (NY-16)



November 6, 202217:47

WH Travel Pool Report #10 – Rally Arrival
The motorcade reached Westlands, a building at Sarah Lawrence College, at 5:34 pm.
No sight of POTUS.
People watched on the neighborhood streets as we passed. One man held a "Zeldin for Governor" lawn sign.
The stage is outside near a display of the NY state flag and a "Vote New York" sign. There are 1,150 people here, with 200 still in line, per the WH.
Rep. Bowman startled the crowd with the volume of his opening remarks. "Thats not loud enough" he said. Folks are booing after mentions of Zeldin. They're repeating chants, now, of "stop lying" in reference to Republicans
Per the WH
The President will participate in a political event at Sarah Lawrence College.
Attendees
Kathy Hochul, Governor of New YorkSenate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer (NY)Senator Kirsten Gillibrand (NY)Rep. Jamaal Bowman (NY-16)
Participating in a photoline with the President at Sarah Lawrence College:
Kathy Hochul, Governor of New YorkSenate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer (NY)Senator Kirsten Gillibrand (NY)Rep. Jamaal Bowman (NY-16)Tish James, Attorney General of New YorkMike Spano, Mayor of the City of Yonkers, New YorkAndrea Stewart-Cousins, Majority Leader of the New York State SenateTom DiNapoli, New York State ComptrollerGeorge Latimer, County Executive of Westchester County



November 6, 202218:29

WH Travel Pool Report #11 – POTUS Begins
The President took the stage at 6:26 p.m. to loud cheers and, as usual on this trip, to the song "Higher Love." He hugged Gov. Hochul, waved on both sides of the stage, and started speaking.
Stream at https://www.c-span.org/video/?524078-1/president-biden-campaigns-gov-hoc...
(Co-pooler Erin Logan also mentioned in the pre-show that this is the first rally on this trip we've heard play a Taylor Swift song: "Fearless," the original version.)



November 6, 202219:15

WH Travel Pool Report #12 – Highlights and Rolling
The president finished speaking at 6:57 pm.
We're rolling 7:13 pm.
(Check quotes to audio.
He was energized, jokingly showing surprise to chants of "Biden."
Near the start of his speech, there were a few hecklers out of my sight, one of whom chanted "four more years." Co-pooler Erin Logan saw at least one Biden aide direct one of the hecklers to leave the rally. Another official escorted the heckler about 50 feet through the crowd; he walked himself out and about five Biden supporters yelled at him as he departed.
Some digs at Rep. Zeldin, mentioning that the congressman voted against the infrastructure bill and the IRA. There were boos every time the president mentioned Rep. Zeldin's name.
A list of the recent trips the president has taken to New York, highlighting business investments in the state. Ditto with the Dem bills passed this year and his record on the deficit.
"We're the ones bringing down the debt. They're the ones who raise it," nodding to Republicans.

Big cheers after references to student debt relief. "Their hypocrisy's unbelievable" he said of Republican opposition to it. Every Republican mentioned elicited loud boos.
"Gov Hochul's opponent talks a good game on crime. But it's all talk," he said. The president mentioned the ARP and its funding for police, teachers, firefighters, etc and that Republicans voted against it. "And then they whine about how they're so tough," he said. A lot of messaging on crime tied to gun control.
"Kathy's opponent is one of those election deniers."
"For these election deniers, there are only two outcomes for an election: Either they win or they were cheated"

A little girl in the crowd was jumping up and down to try and see the president.
His Meachem-esque unity message at the end.
Towards the end of a remarks, Biden seemed to notice someone in the audience having a medical emergency. POTUS halted the rally until the person got help. The person was moved to a chair near the back fence. Co-pooler Erin Logan saw a young red haired woman seated near an EMT drinking out of a paper cup near the fence.
As the president exited someone in the crowd – holding a sign that read "5 more years of drilling is a lose lose!" – shouted a question, to which the president said something about no "new drilling" and "that was before I was president." Afterward he motioned that the person should write him her name. Per a photog, the president spoke with her immediately after.



November 6, 202219:42

WH Travel Pool Report #13 – Airport & Liftoff
The pool saw President Biden board AF1 at 7:41 pm. He turned and waved at the top of the stairs.
We’re about to get on the plane.



November 6, 202219:43

WH Travel Pool Report #14 – Travel Party
Per the WH
Traveling with the President aboard Air Force One en route Joint Base Andrews:
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of StaffAnnie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office OperationsKarine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press SecretaryKate Berner, Deputy Assistant to the President & Principal Deputy Director of CommunicationsAshley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office OperationsTravis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip DirectorSheila Grant, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Presidential SpeechwriterCarla Frank, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of the Office of Political Strategy & OutreachTerry Wolff, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for the Middle East and North Africa, National Security Council



November 6, 202220:51

WH Travel Pool Report #15 – JBA & Liftoff
AF1 landed at JBA at 8:35 pm. The president exited at 8:44 pm and didn’t answer shouted questions. He took a quick phone call after entering the helicopter. M1 lifted off at 8:50 pm.
Off to in-town pool for the night.
Mid flight, Principal Deputy Director of Communications Kate Berner briefly came back and spoke off the record with the pool.
Thank you to all of those who helped us on this long trip, and to Co-pooler Erin Logan, a great reporter and better dog owner.
Per the WH
Greeting the President upon arrival at Joint Base Andrews:
Colonel William McDonald, Vice Commander, 89th Airlift Wing



November 6, 202220:51

WH Travel Pool Report #16 – travel party
Per the WH
Traveling with the President aboard Marine One en route the White House:
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of StaffAnnie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office OperationsKarine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press SecretaryAshley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office Operations




 
Pool Reports below by Gerren Keith Gaynor, TheGrio 



Sent:
Reports:




November 6, 202221:05

WH In-Town Pool Report #1 - POTUS Lands
Good evening everyone -- I'm your in-town pool.
Marine One landed on the White House's south lawn at 9:01 p.m.
President Biden stepped out of M1 at 9:03 p.m. He very casually walked across the south lawn and waved at the pool and staff assembled and walked straight inside the White House.



November 6, 202221:09

WH In-Town Pool Report #2 - LID
Pool was escorted back to the Palm Room doors at 9:08p.m. and a lid was called.
Have a great night everyone!




  