
    Steyer draws sharp contrast from the rest of the field on term limits, climate, and the economy
(ATLANTA, GA, November 20, 2019) — Tonight, presidential candidate for the Democratic nomination Tom Steyer took to the debate stage for a second time, stressing the need for real structural reforms by calling for term limits and showing true leadership on climate change.
"We're going to need new and different people in charge. I'm the only person on this stage who will talk about term limits. Vice President Biden won't, Senator Sanders won't. Even Pete Buttigieg won't. I will let the American people pass laws themselves through direct democracy. It's time to push the power back to the people and away from D.C," said Steyer.
Steyer once again rang the alarm on the increasingly urgent threat of a serious climate crisis, emphasizing his continued commitment to bold action on climate change, and differentiating himself from the rest of the candidates. Steyer echoed his pledge to make climate his top priority by calling it a national emergency on day one of his administration to highlight it as our nation's biggest opportunity to rebuild our nation and restore our economy.
"Congress has never passed an important climate bill ever. This is a problem which continues to get worse..." said Steyer. "I'm the only person on this stage that will say climate is the number one priority for me... It's a state of emergency, and I would declare a state of emergency on day one."
Steyer knows that Trump and his corrupt Republican enablers are going to run for election on the economy. His background and experience as a self made businessman and job creator clearly illustrate for the American public how Steyer is uniquely qualified to uncover Trump's fraudulent, and criminal behaviors, that have only favored the rich and corporations the most.
"Whoever of us is the Ddemocratic nominee is going to have to face Mr. Trump ...and talk about the economy, talk about growth... expose Mr. Trump for what he is, a fraud and a failure, on the economy," Steyer said.
Steyer was the first candidate to come out calling for the impeachment of Donald Trump and one of the first candidates to propose a wealth tax. Steyer has met the polling requirements for the December debate stage, and remains steadfast in sharing his vision of putting the American people first.
  