
    Pool Reports by Lesley Clark , E&E News/Politico 



Sent:
Reports:




November 27, 202113:21

VP pool report #1 
It's Small Business Saturday and your pool is in position to cover Vice President Harris and second gentleman Doug Emhoff as they arrive at 1:20 pm to check out DC's Downtown Holiday Market and its all local vendors.
It's a brisk 42 degrees with partly sunny skies and a chill wind.
The then-vice-president-elect and Emhoff visited the market in 2020, accompanied by DC Mayor Muriel Bowser.



November 27, 202114:12

VP pool report #2 - some shopping details
more to come ..
Per the WH, Joining the VP and Second Gentleman are Cole Emhoff and Greenley Littlejohn.
They arrived at 1:22, VP in a tan coat, walking up 8th to the market.
Market goers who became aware of her presence shouted, including a 'we love you' as she arrived
VP spoke briefly w market organizer, though it was hard to hear much (will try tape)
Sounded like conversation on small businesses.
Per the WH, the greeter was Michael Berman, President of Diverse Markets Management from the downtown business improvement district. Also callEd BID.
She came around the corner to pool view a few minutes later and spent time talking to a shop keeper who was selling various colorful prints
Conversation Pool heard one of the women say "I missed you last year."
After visiting shop she went over to greet crowd who greener w woos and took pictures - VP and second gentleman posed for at least one shot
Second stop was at The Capital Candy Jar with shelves full of popcorn and other treats
She spent some time in there talking to customers - pool couldn't hear the conversation
Both VP and second gentleman emerged w blue bags
A big crowd as she left was enthusiastic - including a shout of "hello from California'
Third stop was Monderpice Spices and Tea where she spent time purchasing tiny bags of various spices
Pool vantage was not such that it could see or hear but which ones but will send a list of gifts purchased shortly from WH
She greeted more people and then swung around the market to Terratorie Maps and Goods, which has colorful maps of various cities and states - and DC neighborhoods
Happy Holidays everyone," VP said as she swung around the corner .
She and second gentleman admired an LA map
Last stop was Smell of Love candles where she shook hand w 'kidpreneur'
"How did you discover this?" she asked him, just before introducing him to 'my husband, Doug.'
It's 2:10 and she's wrapping it up w more crowd greeting



November 27, 202114:32

VP Pool report #3 brief covid remarks 
The VP stopped briefly to gaggle before leaving.
She said she had been briefed on the new COVID variant and said the administration will be taking "every precaution" it can
She urged people to get boostered if they have already been vaccinated and said she "could not stress enough" that they should get vaccinated if they have not.
"They are safe they are free and they will save your life."
She said no further travel restrictions at this point, "but as of now, we've done what we believe is necessary."
She also talked about the importance of small businesses, calling them "the lifeblood of the community" and an "economic engine."
"You're my hero," one woman shouted as she left at about 2:18



November 27, 202115:12

VP pool report - the gifts 
Per the WH, A few items the Vice President and the Second Gentleman purchased:
"I'm Speaking" calendar
Cashews, Carmel popcorn, milk chocolates from The Capital Candy Jar
An assortment of spices
Maps from Terratorie of San Francisco and Los Angeles
2 candles from Smell of Love Candles




  