
    After a week spent highlighting Hillary's plan to address America's energy and environmental challenges, the Clinton campaign today launched new ads in Iowa and New Hampshire emphasizing Hillary's commitment to lead our country toward energy independence.
The new 30-second spots, entitled, "Energy Independence," feature Hillary discussing her plans to end our dependence on foreign oil, create millions of jobs by investing in alternative energy, and end tax subsidies for oil companies.
Watch the Iowa ad: http://www.hillaryclinton.com/video/64.aspx
Watch the New Hampshire ad: http://www.hillaryclinton.com/video/65.aspx
Hillary unveiled her energy plan in appearances across Iowa and New Hampshire this week, outlining her goals to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 80% from 1990 levels to avoid the worst effects of global warming, cut foreign oil imports by two-thirds from 2030 projected levels, and catalyze a thriving clean energy industry.
Hillary would transform our economy from carbon-based to green and energy efficient, jumpstarting research and development by investing $15 billion annually in basic energy research and development, and deployment of clean energy technology. She would also spur the green building industry by funding the retrofitting and modernization of 20 million low-income homes and taking concrete steps to reduce electricity consumption, including enacting strict appliance efficiency standards and phasing out incandescent light bulbs.
Read more about Hillary's plan to power America's future here.
Following is the script for the Iowa ad:
"Energy Independence"
CLINTON: We could create millions of new jobs if we got serious about dealing with energy efficiency, new forms of energy. That's what I will do.
CLINTON: I will create a Strategic Energy Fund that will put $50 billion to work with wind and solar and biofuels. And help us move away from our dependence on foreign oil.
CLINTON: And where would I get the money?
CLINTON: I would take the tax subsidies away from the oil companies.
CLINTON: Let's do it together.
ANNCR: If you're ready for change, she's ready to lead.
CLINTON: I'm Hillary Clinton and I approved this message.
Following is the script for the New Hampshire ad:
"Energy Independence"
CLINTON: We've got to get serious about ending our dependence on foreign oil.
CLINTON: We could create millions of new jobs through new energy.
CLINTON: Let's start investing in what I've called a Strategic Energy Fund that will put $50 billion dollars to work with wind and solar and bio fuels. And help us move away from our dependence on foreign oil.
CLINTON: And where would I get the money?
CLINTON: I would take away the tax subsidies from the oil companies.
CLINTON: They don't need your tax dollars any more.
ANNCR: If you're ready for change, she's ready to lead.
CLINTON: I'm Hillary Clinton and I approved this message.
  