
    Representative Bradley Byrne (R-AL): "Great recap from @POTUS on his incredibly successful Asia trip! It is wonderful to see [an] American leading on the world stage again."
NBC's Ali Vitali: "Challenges Trump faces on world stage were 'inherited' from past admins – 'mistakes...born of indifference and neglect' or 'naïve thinking and misguide judgment,' he says."
Breitbart's Charlie Spiering: "Trump says the world saw 'a strong proud and confident America' during his trip to Asia."
CBS's Mark Knoller: "In talks with Chinese Pres Xi, Pres Trump says he made it clear that 'time is running out' for North Korea to end its nuclear and missile programs. Reiterated that all US options 'are on the table.'"
Axios' Erica Pandey: "President Trump gave a full-throated defense of his 'America First' approach to foreign policy Wednesday, fresh off a 12-day trip to Asia... Trump is saying, 'America First has been vindicated on the world stage,' a source familiar with the speech told Axios' Jonathan Swan. 'We view this as an exclamation mark on a year of foreign policy under Trump.'"
The Washington Post's Anne Gearan: "President Trump said he and Asian leaders have a new resolve to confront North Korea and its rogue nuclear weapons program, claiming credit Wednesday for projecting a stronger and more confident United States unafraid to insist on sovereignty and respect."
The New York Times's Michael Shear: "President Trump on Wednesday boasted that nearly 10 months of his 'America First' foreign policy had restored strength and respect to the United States on the world stage after years of what he deemed failed leadership under his predecessors... 'America's renewed confidence and standing in the world has never been stronger than it is right now,' he said. 'This is exactly what the world saw: a strong, proud and confident America.'"
The Washington Times' S.A. Miller: "The president touted building a united front against North Korea and negotiating billions of dollars in trade deals during a nearly two-week trip to Japan, South Korea, China, Vietnam and the Philippines. He said that he was greeted with great respect at every stop and forged stronger relations based on his 'America first' foreign policy agenda... In his remarks, the president said he made good on his vow to put American citizens and American workers first, and that was a position of strength that garnered respect."
Washington Examiner's Sarah Westwood: "The president said one of the major aims of his trip was to 'insist on fair and reciprocal trade' with countries that he has long accused of exploiting trade agreements with the U.S. Citing his campaign-era focus on negotiating better deals for American workers, Trump said he relied on his 'America First' philosophy in his dealings with Asia leaders."
The Daily Caller's Alex Pfeiffer: "President Donald Trump said that 'America is back' in a speech Wednesday celebrating his foreign policy work. Trump proclaimed that he had inherited several challenges from previous administrations, including trade deficits and the spread of the Islamic State... The president ran through his several foreign policy trips and confidently declared that he has implemented his pledge from Inauguration Day. 'My fellow citizens, America is back and the future has never looked brighter,' Trump declared during the closing of his speech."
  