
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Romney Press Shop (857) 288-6390
Boston, MA – Today, Governor Mitt Romney announced that former Ohio State Senate President Richard Finan has endorsed his candidacy for President. He joins previously announced Ohio endorsers Congressman Ralph Regula, State Senator Kevin Coughlin, State Senator Bob Schuler, and State Representative Shannon Jones.
"Former State Senate President Finan understands the importance of strong leadership based on proven Republican principles," said Governor Romney. "I look forward to working with him to build a strong organization in Ohio as we discuss the important issues facing Buckeye State voters."
"Governor Romney has the experience and the proven record of accomplishment we need in our next President," said former State Senate President Finan. "His conservative values and detailed vision to strengthen the economy, strengthen our military, and strengthen our families are what will unite Republicans and defeat the Democrats in 2008."
Background On Former Ohio State Senator Richard Finan:
Senator Finan Was First Elected To The Ohio House Of Representatives In 1973, Having Previously Served As Mayor Of Evendale. He joined the Ohio Senate in 1978 and was elected President in 1996. Senator Finan served as President of the National Conference of State Legislatures in 1997 and continues to be active in that organization. He is a Co-Chair of the Trust for Democracy and is on the Foundation Board. Currently, Senator Finan serves on the University of Dayton Board of Trustees and is a director of Franklin Savings and Loan; First Franklin Corporation, and Rest Haven Cemetery Association in addition to multiple other organizations and committees. Senator Finan served in the U. S. Army from 1954 through 1956 and was the appointed civilian aide to the Secretary of the Army for Ohio from 2001 through 2003. He was awarded an honorary degree from Xavier University in 2000 and joined Calfee's government relations and legislation group in 2003.
  