
    Tim Pugh praises Paul at a 'Restore America Now' town hall meeting held in East Central Iowa
ANKENY, Iowa - 2012 Republican Presidential candidate Ron Paul was endorsed today by Cedar Rapids Tea Party founder Tim Pugh on the first day of the Congressman's two-day visit to Iowa.
"Ron Paul has an unwavering stance in defense of the Constitution, a conviction to the cause of freedom and liberty, a firm belief in a balanced budget, and devotion to a strong free market economy and a sound monetary policy. He believes in a strong national defense, and not as the policeman of the world," said Mr. Pugh.
"Ron Paul is the father of the modern-day tea party movement. As a small business owner, a true tea partier and conservative, and as the founder of the Cedar Rapids Tea Party I personally endorse Ron Paul for President of the United States," said Mr. Pugh.
The endorsement occurred in East Central Iowa before a crowd of 400 supporters during a Cedar Rapids "Restore America Now" town hall meeting held at The Hotel at Kirkwood Center.
Prior to the Cedar Rapids event large crowds of 85 and 125 supporters greeted Dr. Paul in Benton and Jones Counties, respectively, for today's two other town hall meetings. Crowds of this size are uncharacteristic as Vinton and Anamosa, where the events occurred, are located in rural areas of the Hawkeye State.
Mr. Pugh said he made his endorsement as a private citizen and added that his views do not necessarily reflect those of the more than 900 Cedar Rapids Tea Party members. He also has signed onto the national advisory board of the "Gun Owners for Ron Paul" nationwide coalition.
Dr. Paul's Iowa schedule for tomorrow is as follows. All times Central.
Saturday November 19, 2011
9:00 a.m.
Warren County GOP Breakfast Fundraiser
Indianola Christian Union Church
705 East Euclid Avenue
Indianola, Iowa 50125
11:00 a.m.
Editorial Board Meeting
Des Moines Register
715 Locust Street
Des Moines, Iowa 50309
4:00 p.m.
The Family Leader — Thanksgiving Family Forum
First Federated Church
4801 Franklin Ave
Des Moines, Iowa 50310
  