
    The acquisition and regeneration of Excess Defense Articles (EDA) F-16s provides Indonesia with a much needed capability to protect its sovereign airspace and represents the largest transfer of defense articles in the history of the U.S.-Indonesia bilateral relationship – a signal of the growing commitment to regional security under the bilateral Comprehensive Partnership.
The Government of Indonesia has chosen to improve its internal air defense capability through the upgrade and regeneration of Excess Defense Articles (EDA) USAF F-16 Block 25 aircraft provided to the Government of Indonesia via a grant approved in August 2011. Indonesia currently has a fleet of 10 F-16 A/B Block 15 aircraft. The acquisition and regeneration of 24 F-16 C/D aircraft via EDA allows the Government of Indonesia to significantly bolster air defense capacity without compromising the defense budget and other national priorities.
The Government of Indonesia requested a total of 30 aircraft, with 24 F-16 Block 25 aircraft for regeneration, and four F-16 Block 25 and two F-16 Block 15 aircraft for use as spare parts. Included in the grant was a request for 28 Pratt and Whitney engines. Indonesia has allocated funding for the regeneration of the 24 F-16s and overhaul of 28 engines.
The Department of Defense is currently working with the Indonesian Ministry of Defense to develop a Letter of Offer and Acceptance (LOA) for the regeneration of 24 F-16 Block 25 aircraft while awaiting completion of the final required Congressional Notification. The Congressional Notification is expected to be complete and the LOA ready to be signed in early 2012. The United States Government is working to begin delivery of aircraft by July 2014, as requested by the Government of Indonesia.
At the conclusion of the regeneration Indonesia will possess a fleet of 24 F-16 aircraft updated with the most advanced Modular Mission Computer (MMC) produced by Raytheon. The aircraft will also have vastly improved radar, avionics, and the capability to carry and field more advanced weaponry and sensors. Additionally, a minimum of thirty pilots will receive F-16 differences training in the United States, and mobile training teams from the United States will train Indonesian aircraft maintainers.
  