
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
October 29
In the morning, the President returned to the White House from King Khalid Military City, Saudi Arabia.
October 30
In the evening, the President and Hillary Clinton attended the Ford's Theatre Gala at Ford's Theatre.
October 31
In the morning, the President signed California desert protection legisation at a signing ceremony in the Oval Office. Following the ceremony, he traveled to Philadelphia, PA, where he attended a reception for Senator Harris Wofford at City Hall.
In the afternoon, the President traveled to Pittsburgh, PA, where he attended another reception for Senator Harris Wofford at the David Lawrence Convention Center.
In the evening, following the President's return to Washington, DC, he went to McLean, VA, where he attended a fundraiser for Senator Charles Robb at his residence.
November 1
In the morning, the President traveled to Detroit, MI, where he attended a luncheon for Senator Bob Carr at the Westin Hotel.
In the afternoon, the President traveled to Cleveland, OH. Following his return to Washington, DC, in the evening, he attended a fundraiser for Democratic candidates Tom Andrews and Charlie Oberly at the Hay Adams Hotel.
November 2
In the afternoon, the President traveled to Providence, RI. In the evening, he attended a rally for Democratic candidates and the Rhode Island Democratic Coordinated Campaign fundraiser dinner at the Rhode Island Convention Center. Following the dinner, he returned to Washington, DC.
November 3
In the morning, the President traveled to Albany, NY, and, in the afternoon, to Des Moines, IA. In the evening, he traveled to Duluth, MN.
The President announced his intention to appoint Alfred Lloyd Goldson as a member of the National Cancer Advisory Board.
The President announced his intention to appoint Waldemar Rojas to the President's Advisory Commission on Educational Excellence for Hispanic Americans.
The White House announced the President has invited President Leonid Kuchma of Ukraine to make a state visit to the U.S. on November 21–23.
November 4
In the morning, the President participated in a rally for Democratic candidates at the University of Minnesota at Duluth. Following the rally, he traveled to Los Alamitos, CA. He then went to Los Angeles, CA, where he participated in a Democratic candidate rally at City Hall.
  