
    Today, President Biden announced critical, commonsense steps to reduce methane emissions and seize economic growth and job creation opportunities?while rallying the world to take similar bold actions on methane, climate innovation, sustainable agriculture, and more.
While attending COP26 in Glasgow, President Biden unveiled a U.S. Methane Emissions Reduction Action Plan that redoubles efforts from across the government to reduce U.S. methane emissions, cut consumer costs, protect workers and communities, maintain and create good-paying, union-friendly, and promote U.S. innovation and manufacturing.
President Biden also announced that more than 100 governments have now joined his Global Methane Pledge launched with the European Union to reduce the world's methane emissions 30% from 2020 levels by 2030. This announcement comes alongside other U.S. climate partnerships to drive climate innovation, mobilize public and private finance, support critical ecosystems, and promote sustainable agriculture.
A broad coalition of labor, business, environmental, and congressional leaders, as well as state, local, and Tribal officials, are applauding the President's bold steps to tackle methane emissions, deliver for economies and jobs at home, and restore U.S. climate leadership on the world stage.
See below for what they are saying:
Labor Leaders
Mark McManus, General President, United Association of Journeymen and Apprentices of the Plumbing and Pipe Fitting Industry of the United States and Canada, AFL-CIO: "Today's action plan and proposed rulemaking puts the United States on a clear path towards reaching our ambitious shared climate goals, all while using union labor and the men and women of the United Association to get there. The Biden-Harris Administration has made a strong commitment to ensuring robust labor protections on infrastructure projects as we work to build back better, and this action plan is no different. Emerging technologies like carbon capture sequestration and hydrogen will create more jobs for our members while modernizing and reducing our footprint. We look forward to working with this Administration and our industry partners to put these rules into practice, creating more family-sustaining jobs for our members as we work to reduce emissions." [Statement, 11/2/21]
Liz Shuler, President, AFL-CIO: "Methane is exceedingly powerful at trapping heat in the atmosphere. That's why the Global Methane Pledge and the @WhiteHouse Action Plan are so important. And these solutions will create thousands of high-quality, union jobs. Let's get to work! #COP26" [Tweet, 11/2/21]
Business and Industry Leaders
Christopher Guith, Senior Vice President, U.S. Chamber of Commerce Global Energy Institute: "We applaud the work the Biden Administration has done to begin regulating methane emissions. Industry agrees that curbing methane emissions is crucial to combatting climate change and is investing in technologies that will achieve this goal. The Chamber supports both direct regulation of methane and increased voluntary reductions in a manner that allows for continued domestic energy production, technological innovation, and follows the appropriate process in the Clean Air Act. We look forward to reviewing the details of the rule in the coming days and will continue to participate in the regulatory process." [Statement, 11/2/21]
Rachel Jones, Vice President of Energy & Resources Policy, National Association of Manufacturers: "Manufacturers are working with the EPA to share their expertise, and many companies are leading the way in rolling out technologies that make it possible to lower both emissions and costs. We look forward to learning specific details of the administration's full methane strategy as our sector continues to work to make our planet healthy for future generations." [Statement, 11/2/21]Shell: "Sound methane policy is key to advancing the energy transition?and we applaud the @EPA for developing new regulations to tackle methane emissions." ? [Tweet, 11/2/21]
Dave Lawler, bp America Chairman and President: "bp applauds the EPA for proposing new rules aimed at reducing methane emissions. This is a critical step toward helping the US reach net zero by 2050 or sooner. Regulating methane will help prevent leaks throughout the industry and protect the environment. That's why bp supports the direct federal regulation of methane emissions from new and existing sources across the value chain . . . As global leaders convene in Glasgow for COP26, the US should be commended for prioritizing methane reductions. We look forward to continuing to engage with the Administration as it develops methane rules that support the shared net zero goals of bp and the US." [Statement, 11/2/21]
Ryan Lance, Chairman and CEO, ConocoPhillips: "ConocoPhillips has actively supported the direct federal regulation of methane emissions from both new and existing sources and believes that the right regulation can help raise the performance floor for the entire energy industry. Reducing greenhouse gas emissions, including methane, is a major priority for us. Within our company, we've already voluntarily reduced our operational emissions intensity by nearly 65% since 2015 through such actions as portfolio upgrading, improving energy efficiency, replacing equipment, electrifying some facilities and equipment and detecting and repairing methane leaks. We now plan a further 10% reduction by 2025 from a 2019 baseline. We also have a separate near-term target to achieve zero routine flaring by 2030, with an ambition to meet that goal by 2025. We will review the EPA's proposed regulation and look forward to continued engagement with the agency to help develop a final rule that encourages meaningful methane emissions reductions, while also providing producers with the flexibility they need to continue providing critical energy supplies to consumers and businesses. While we recognize that direct federal regulation represents a meaningful step forward in reducing emissions of methane and other greenhouse gases, we believe the most viable and effective approach for reducing end-use emissions would be a well-designed, economywide federal pricing regime on carbon. Given the current absence of a carbon pricing policy, we support enactment of cost-effective methane regulations that would preserve a state's ability to adapt implementation to local conditions. In the meantime, ConocoPhillips will continue voluntarily reducing our methane emissions while actively advocating for a price on carbon." [Statement, 11/2/21]
Frank Macchiarola, Senior Vice President, American Petroleum Institute: "We support the direct regulation of methane from new and existing sources and are committed to building on the progress we have achieved in reducing methane emissions. EPA has released a sweeping proposal, and we look forward to reviewing it in its entirety. We will continue working with the agency to help shape a final rule that is effective, feasible and designed to encourage further innovation." [Statement, 11/2/21]
Tom Kuhn, President, Edison Electric Institute: "EEI and our member electric companies applaud U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Michael Regan and his team for developing proposed federal regulations on methane emissions for new and existing sources . . . We look forward to working with Administrator Regan and his team as they gather feedback and develop final regulations for methane emissions." [Statement, 11/2/21]
Luan Jenifer, President, Miller/Howard Investments: "There is a strong business case for setting high standards on methane emissions in the oil and gas industry. These standards must cover all significant sources of methane emissions, including low-producing and marginal wells which are responsible for an outsized share of the industry's methane emissions. Ambitious standards that apply comprehensively at both new and older facilities will benefit all stakeholders?investors, businesses, communities, and the environment." [Statement, 11/2/21]
Advocacy Leaders and Organizations
Jason Walsh, Executive Director, BlueGreen Alliance: "Preventing methane leaks in the oil and gas industry is not only a major win in the fight against climate change, but an opportunity to create good-paying jobs and protect the health of workers and our communities. Methane is a greenhouse gas several times more potent than carbon dioxide and if we are going to avoid the worst impacts of climate change it is imperative that we prevent these unnecessary leaks." [Statement, 11/2/21]
John Podesta, Founder and Board Member, and Christy Goldfuss, Senior Vice President for Energy and Environment Policy, Center for American Progress: "As one of the most potent climate pollutants, there is no path to holding warming at 1.5 degrees Celsius without significantly reducing methane emissions over the next 10 years. This proposal from President Joe Biden and Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Michael Regan is the next critical step to build on the ambitious framework of investments that the president and Congress announced last week to tackle the climate crisis. These strong standards will provide certainty for industry while rapidly slashing pollution across the oil and gas sector. Together, these hand-in-hand actions show that the Biden administration is committed to meeting the climate test, putting us on the right path to cutting climate pollution in half by 2030. This announcement also sets the United States on a path to meet the goals of the Global Methane Pledge that the United States and the European Union first previewed at the meeting of the Major Economies Forum in September, which now includes nearly 90 countries committed to reducing methane by 30 percent by 2030 from 2020 levels." [Statement, 11/2/21]
Andrew Logan, Senior Director of Oil and Gas, Ceres: "The announcement from the Biden administration today and the newly proposed EPA rules are a strong first step to addressing methane emissions. We cannot allow lax regulations on methane to be one of the reasons that the U.S. falls short of its climate goals. Emissions and leaks from oil and gas wells endanger the health of nearby communities and represent lost product that should be of concern to both companies and prudent investors ? there is no reasonable rationale for allowing these practices to continue. Investors, governments, scientists, and even the oil and gas companies themselves have called for strong methane regulations. We need to see the full weight of regulation and enforcement behind this crucial effort to reduce methane emissions, and need to ensure that these proposed rules become law, leveling the playing field for all operators." [Statement, 11/2/21]
Sarah Smith, Program Director, Super Pollutants, Clean Air Task Force: "If we're going to avoid irreversible changes to our climate, we absolutely must cut methane emissions around the world now. As the largest oil and gas producer in the world, the U.S. is critical to this global effort, and we commend the Biden administration for its work to develop vital safeguards in a timely manner. Stringent final methane standards will help to protect the world from climate change while providing relief to people impacted by air pollution from the oil and gas industry. President Biden has shown real leadership by rallying world governments around setting ambition to cut methane pollution. This proposal represents an important first step in backing up that ambition with action at home." [Statement, 11/2/21]
Jessica Ennis, Legislative Director for Climate and Energy, Earthjustice: "The EPA's proposal is a positive step by the Biden administration that will help rein in emissions of this potent climate pollutant. We are encouraged that the Biden administration is taking the threat of methane pollution seriously ? and we will continue to advocate for the strongest possible standards. Methane and other pollutants emitted along with it seriously threaten the communities impacted by oil and gas facilities. Strong methane standards are necessary to combat the climate crisis and advance environmental justice." [Statement, 11/2/21]
Lisa Frank, Washington Legislative Office Executive Director, Environment America: "Climate change is the challenge of our generation. To tackle such a pressing problem, our federal leaders need to take a whole-of-government approach. Passing the Build Back Better Act and the bipartisan Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act is critical and will accelerate important climate investments that will pay off through emissions reductions in the years to come. But there will remain more to do, and we're glad to see that the administration is wasting no time. Placing stricter rules on methane pollution would have a significant and rapid effect when it comes to addressing global warming. It would also help protect communities across the U.S. by lessening unhealthy air pollution. With the unveiling of these new rules, if Congress passes the reconciliation and infrastructure bills this week, it would be a historic moment for climate action." [Statement, 11/2/21]
Fred Krupp, President, Environmental Defense Fund: "Methane pollution is a profound threat to our health and our climate. Cutting methane emissions from this industry is the fastest, most cost-effective way to slow global warming today. These rules are an important step that offers a major victory for nine million Americans living near active oil and gas sites." [Statement, 11/2/21]
Jamal Raad, Executive Director, Evergreen Action: "The IPCC report was clear: driving down methane pollution is essential to reining in the climate crisis. But for too long, corporate polluters in the fossil fuel industry have gotten away with unchecked methane leaks from existing infrastructure that accelerate the climate crisis and poison our communities. That must end now. EPA's new rule will address critical sources of methane pollution from the oil and gas industry in both new and existing operations. This rule will drive down pollution, help fulfill President Biden's commitments, and protect our communities from the worst impacts of climate change. And alongside the EPA rule, Congress must act, by moving swiftly to pass a penalty on methane waste in the Build Back Better Act. Tackling methane pollution is an essential step to help tackle the climate crisis and allow American communities to flourish?we look forward to imminent action from Congress and further steps from EPA to build on the important progress made today." [Statement, 11/2/21]
Christina Herman, Program Director for Climate and Environmental Justice, Interfaith Center on Corporate Responsibility: "ICCR members have been successfully engaging companies and federal and state agencies on the need for strong methane management and disclosure, supported by effective regulation, for the past six years. The best-managed oil & gas companies, recognizing both the business case and reputational risk to the industry, are now are in favor of some level of regulation. ICCR welcomes the EPA's proposal to cut methane pollution from both new and existing oil and gas facilities, and we look forward to participating in the comment period to ensure the final regulations are as comprehensive and effective as possible." [Statement, 11/2/21]
Patrice Tomcik, National Field Manager, Moms Clean Air Force: "Moms across the nation are thankful that the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has proposed rules to cut methane and other harmful air pollutants from new and existing oil and gas operations. This important step forward will help protect the health of our children from the impacts of air pollution and climate change. Federal methane rules are the best way to create baseline protections for all children across the nation, especially for states that have failed to enact meaningful oil and gas methane protections." [Statement, 11/2/21]
Stephanie Kodish, Senior Director and Counsel, National Parks Conservation Association's Clean Air and Climate Program: The EPA's rule proposal is a vital piece of the climate solution puzzle. Our national parks' glaciers are melting, landscapes are drying and forests are burning due to the climate crisis. Sharp reductions in methane is nonnegotiable if we are to better protect our public lands and frontline communities. Cutting methane pollution is essential to safeguard the people and places we cherish." [Statement, 11/2/21]
Andrew Black, Public Lands Field Director, National Wildlife Federation: "America's public lands and waters have a critical role to play in addressing the climate crisis, and reducing methane emissions from flaring and orphaned oil and gas wells and abandoned coal mines is an important facet in this strategy. We will work with the Interior Department and Bureau of Land Management to ensure these essential changes not only address the climate crisis, but also promote the health, safety, and quality of life for frontline communities and workers." [Statement, 11/2/21]
Shannon Heyck-Williams, Senior Director of Climate and Energy Policy, National Wildlife Federation: "Making up for lost time by swiftly curtailing methane emissions is critical to protect people and wildlife alike from the impacts of climate change and toxic air pollution. The new EPA rule will help us meet the moment on this dangerous super-pollutant plus reduce health threats from dangerous pollutants like benzene, promising a safer climate and cleaner air. We applaud the Biden Administration in going farther than any administration has gone before to cut methane pollution." [Statement, 11/2/21]
David Doniger, Senior Strategic Director of Climate & Clean Energy Program, Natural Resources Defense Council: "Strong EPA standards to curb methane pollution are essential to protect the climate and our health. Millions of tons of this super-potent greenhouse gas are emitted from oil and gas operations across the country. This step is critical to meet President Biden's pledge to cut America's climate pollution in half by 2030. This EPA action will also bolster the growing international efforts?led by the United States and the European Union?to significantly reduce methane pollution at the global climate talks in Glasgow." [Statement, 11/2/21]
Anna Falkenberg, Executive Director, Socially Responsible Investment Coalition: "Strong methane regulations, including those to reduce routine flaring, will help create a level playing field for the oil and gas industry by bringing industry action more into alignment and will set a clear floor for methane mitigation and abatement that helps the industry avoid possible reputational risks. Investors and civil society are setting expectations to eliminate flaring and have shown support for policies to achieve zero routine flaring, and industry would benefit from regulations that reflect these expectations." [Statement, 11/2/21]
Evan Weber, Co-founder, Sunrise Movement: "This methane rule from@POTUS is a really big deal, and goes much farther than what Obama did. It covers methane leakage across the whole life-cycle of oil & gas. If implemented rapidly, effectively, and w/o industry tampering ? could be a game-changer." [Tweet, 11/2/21]
Jamie Williams, President, The Wilderness Society: "Great work from @POTUS and @EPA for heavily regulating methane emissions! Exposure to methane has been linked to serious health problems including asthma & cancer and contributes to global warming 80 times as fast as carbon dioxide in the short term." [Statement, 11/2/21]
Julie McNamara, Deputy Policy Director of Climate and Energy Program, Union of Concerned Scientists: "Today's proposals represent essential progress and long-demanded action to rein in methane emissions from oil and gas operations. For too long, we've known the damaging impacts of this potent heat-trapping pollutant, known that oil and gas operations continue to be a major source of it, and known that solutions to drive rapid reductions across the sector already exist?yet still, oil and gas operations continue to release untenably high and entirely preventable methane emissions. This is no accident, but rather the result of a concerted industry lobbying campaign to block, delay, and roll back federal regulations. Swiftly reducing methane emissions will result in significant and much-needed near-term climate progress. Today's actions by EPA Administrator Regan take important strides in achieving that necessary progress. The proposed rules would strengthen standards for new oil and gas operations as well as broaden coverage and requirements for existing operations. For these standards to be as effective and protective as possible, EPA must press even further as it finalizes the rules, and work to ensure that they are broadly applied and rigorously enforced so that the implementation matches the intent. Driving down methane emissions is a critical component of achieving President Biden's science-informed national climate targets, and EPA standards are foundational to that effort. These domestic actions will also support global climate efforts, including the recently announced Global Methane Pledge, a collective goal of slashing global methane emissions by at least 30 percent below 2020 levels by 2030. Beyond climate, reducing methane from oil and gas operations will also result in significant and vital public health gains for communities?disproportionately communities of color?living near these operations, who have been forced to bear the ongoing burden of hazardous air pollutants regularly released alongside methane. There can be no more excuses: EPA must resist oil and gas industry efforts to delay and water down new standards, and act rapidly to strengthen, finalize, and enforce robust rules." [Statement, 11/2/21]
Mike Bloomberg, United Nations Secretary General's Special Envoy for Climate Ambition & Solutions: "The Paris Agreement goal of limiting global warming to 1.5 °C is within reach thanks to nearly 90 countries joining the Global Methane Pledge. Now with the @EPA & @WhiteHouse's plans to curb methane emissions announced today, the U.S. will continue to build on this progress." [Tweet, 11/2/21]
Matt Casale, Environment Campaign Director, U.S. Public Interest Research Group: "We applaud the EPA for taking this first step toward ensuring oil and gas companies will no longer be allowed to freely leak methane into our atmosphere. From the giant methane cloud we saw over Florida to the ongoing release of this dangerous gas from the massive Permian Basin of Texas, it's clear that we must get this problem under control. Holding oil and gas companies accountable and reducing methane emissions would be a significant climate victory for all Americans. We look forward to working with the EPA to develop a final rule that is as strong as possible." [Statement, 11/2/21]
Melissa Hornbein, Senior Attorney, Western Environmental Law Center: "EPA's proposal of these rules to strengthen controls on emissions of methane, a climate super polluter, from new and existing oil and gas operations sets in place a key piece of the Biden administration's efforts to tackle climate change." [Statement, 11/2/21]
Ani Dasgupta, President & CEO, World Resources Institute: "Fast action to reduce methane emissions is essential to keep the 1.5°C goal within reach. With so many countries on board, this commitment can make a real difference in the rate of temperature rise. If we don't take action on methane, we will blow through dangerous temperature thresholds even faster. Meeting the Global Methane Pledge targets will play a crucial role in slowing global warming. Methane is the second most abundant human-caused greenhouse gas and is over 80 times more powerful than carbon dioxide over 20 years in the atmosphere. Because it is potent but exists for only a relatively short time in the atmosphere, cutting methane can quickly limit near-term temperature rise. Never before have countries come together to tackle this key part of the climate puzzle. The next step is for countries to put the pledge in motion with serious policies across agriculture, energy and waste. Solutions to tackle methane are readily available, cost-effective and bring wins for climate and development." [Statement, 11/2/21]
American Public Health Association: "Thank you, @EPA!  Reducing methane emissions will help protect public health by combating climate change and limiting dangerous pollution from oil and gas facilities" [Tweet, 11/2/21]
American Thoracic: "ATS supports EPA rule to reduce methane emissions from oil and natural gas production - expected to reduce 41 million tons of methane by 2035." [Tweet, 11/2/21]
Climate Power: "Methane pollution causes serious health problems and has a 25x greater impact on climate change than CO2. But, as @POTUS notes at #COP26, cleaning up methane leaks and investing in new farming practices creates HUGE job opportunities here at home." [Tweet, 11/2/21]
League of Conservation Voters: "HUGE: The Biden administration is proposing a new rule to cut methane emissions. The rule, which is projected to cut 41 million tons of emissions from 2023 to 2035, is an important first step toward safeguarding communities and protecting our planet." [Tweet, 11/2/21]
San Juan Citizens' Alliance: "Exciting news! The Biden EPA set new, strict rules aiming to curb methane emissions from oil & gas. The US also signed onto the Global Methane Pledge with the goal of reducing methane emissions by 30% by 2030." [Tweet, 11/2/21]
Members of Congress
Delaware Senator Tom Carper, Chairman, Environment and Public Works Committee: "True to President Biden's promise in Glasgow this week, his administration and Congress are working overtime to act on climate and protect human health," said Senator Carper. Earlier this year, we rejected the previous administration's misguided rollback of methane emissions standards. In doing so, we cleared a path for EPA to implement protections for hazardous climate pollutants like methane and ozone. I'm pleased by the leadership at EPA following sound science and working expeditiously to finalize these proposed rules today. In addition to demonstrating the U.S. commitment to leading by example on climate, these proposals represent real progress in protecting Americans access to clean air. But our work doesn't stop here. We must also pass a common sense charge on excess methane pollution as part of the Build Back Better Act. Our program is complementary to EPA's rule and a critical part of meeting the president's climate goals." [Statement, 11/2/21]
New Jersey Congressman Frank Pallone, Chairman, Energy and Commerce Committee: "Methane is a toxic, powerful greenhouse gas whose emissions are responsible for approximately one-third of the warming and climate disruption we live with today. As world leaders gather in Glasgow to tackle the climate crisis, the Biden Administration is safeguarding every American's right to clean air and reclaiming the mantle as a climate leader with a robust response to methane pollution here at home. Curbing methane emissions is the fastest way to slow the warming of our planet, and it requires using every policy means at our disposal. The Biden EPA's new methane proposal, combined with the Methane Emissions Reduction Program incentives in the Build Back Better Act, represent critical tools for reducing methane and the harm it causes for communities across the country. I applaud the Biden Administration for taking this action today and look forward to our continued partnership in tackling the climate crisis together." [Statement, 11/2/21]
Florida Congresswoman Kathy Castor, Chair, House Select Committee on the Climate Crisis: "With today's announcements, President Biden is showing the world that America is willing to put in the work to urgently reduce pollution and solve the climate crisis. Cutting harmful methane pollution at a rapid clip is one of the most powerful ways to meet our near-term climate goals, which is why it is a key component of our Climate Crisis Action Plan. And as this year's costly disasters have proven, it's imperative we take immediate action and lead the world through our example if we are to keep global temperatures in check. The latest IPCC report warned us of the need to move quickly to reduce global emissions of methane, a super-pollutant that can trap 80 times more heat than carbon dioxide in the short term. And cutting methane waste from the oil and gas industry is not only necessary; it's also a win-win for American families, who will see lower gas prices and a cleaner environment. President Biden's actions today follow the science and will protect American families and future generations." [Statement, 11/2/21]
California Senator Alex Padilla: "This is a great step forward in the fight against climate change. But we can't stop here?we must also pass the methane fee and clean air investments in the #BuildBackBetterAct to meet the president's climate goals and protect our planet." [Tweet, 11/2/21]
California Senator Diane Feinstein: "The Biden administration's proposal to cut methane emissions and the president's ability to secure similar pledges from more than 90 countries shows that the United States is once again leading the way in the fight against the climate crisis. The Global Methane Pledge requires a 30 percent cut in methane emissions, the second-largest source of greenhouse gases, by 2030. Under the new rules proposed by the EPA, the United States would achieve that goal by stronger standards for the oil and gas industry, particularly by reducing leaks from old oil wells and pipelines. California passed similar legislation nearly a decade ago. Thanks to our 2006 landmark state law, the California Global Warming Solutions Act, and subsequent methane reducing policies, California will reduce methane and other short-lived climate pollutants by 40 percent below 2013 levels by 2030. Climate change is an existential threat to humanity. From deadly wildfires to extreme weather events and droughts, we're dealing with the repercussions of inaction now. It's refreshing to see a president who is exercising leadership on the world stage and bringing other world leaders together to join us in acting now." [Tweet, Statement, 11/2/21]
Illinois Senator Dick Durbin: "Pleased to see @POTUS recommit our nation to slowing the effects of climate change on a global stage with his announcement that @EPA is cracking down on methane & greenhouse gas emissions. This move will bring us one step closer to a healthier planet." [Tweet, 11/2/21]
Massachusetts Senator Ed Markey: "Methane has 80 times more global warming potential than carbon dioxide over a 20-year period and global emissions are at an all-time high. This is an important step by the Biden administration for the billions imperiled by the climate crisis. But more work is needed. We need to prioritize frontline communities, stop dangerous industry practices, and secure international commitments. I will continue to work in Congress to hold methane emitters accountable and pass legislation that will help us meet our health, justice, and climate goals." [Tweet, 11/2/21]
Colorado Senator John Hickenlooper: "Methane is 25x more potent than carbon dioxide. The EPA's new standards will dramatically reduce climate-warming emissions. And it all started in Colorado!" [Tweet, 11/2/21]
Colorado Senator Michael Bennet: "Thrilled to see the EPA following Colorado's leadership on cutting powerful methane pollution from new and existing oil and gas operations. We must continue to limit this harmful pollutant to protect the health of our communities and combat climate change." [Tweet, 11/2/21]
New Mexico Senator Ben Ray Luján: "In New Mexico and across the country, methane emissions are far too present in our communities ? jeopardizing the air we breathe, endangering our environment, and putting unnecessary strain on our economy. I'm glad President Biden is taking action to redouble efforts of the United States government to dramatically curb U.S. methane emissions. I'm also pleased this announcement includes my REGROW Act to plug the hundreds of thousands of orphaned gas wells that leak harmful emissions across the country. This bold action to combat the climate crisis is precisely what our country needs at this moment. It will create jobs and bolster our economy while safeguarding our environment." [Statement, 11/2/21]
Texas Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson: "Mitigating the climate crisis requires addressing both new and existing sources of methane emissions as quickly as possible. Today's announcements from the EPA and President Biden on reducing methane emissions are critical steps in our whole-of-government approach to confront the climate crisis. By addressing oil and natural gas infrastructure, we are showing the world that we cannot wait to act on climate. In addition to the long-term climate change mitigation benefits, reducing methane emissions will save lives and reduce hospital visits from pollution-related illnesses like asthma and exposure to extreme heat. These are key actions to strengthen the U.S. commitment to reduce global methane emissions. I applaud EPA Administrator Regan and President Biden's commitments on climate and celebrate our nation's leadership in leading with science driven solutions. I look forward to working with them both to ensure we can deliver on our efforts to tackle methane emissions." [Statement, 11/2/21]
California Congressman Mike Levin: "Absolutely love seeing the USA return as a leader on the world stage in the fight against climate change. Thank you @POTUS for your commitment to drastically reducing our nation's greenhouse gas emissions." [Tweet, 11/2/21]
Minnesota Congresswoman Betty McCollum: "The Biden administration took a major step to fight the #ClimateCrisis today! Methane is extremely potent, and cutting its emissions from both new & existing facilities will be critical in slowing global warming. (1/2)" [Tweet, 11/2/21]
"In addition to updating U.S. methane emissions rules, President Biden also co-introduced the Global Methane Pledge at #COP26, joined by 100+ nations, to slash these emissions by 30% by 2030. The U.S. is back & leading by example to #ActOnClimate. (2/2)" [Tweet, 11/2/21]
Florida Congressman Darren Soto: "Thank you @POTUS Biden for your leadership to reduce methane emissions and stop deforestation at #COP26! @HouseDemocrats are with you to save America and our planet! Earth globe americas Sun with rays Deciduous tree" [Tweet, 11/2/21]
Colorado Congresswoman Diana DeGette: "Today, the Biden administration announced new rules to reduce methane emissions from U.S. oil & gas drilling sites by as much as 75%. This a huge step to help meet our climate goals & protect our planet. To combat this climate crisis, we must cut our methane emissions now." [Tweet, 11/2/21]
Colorado Congressman Jason Crow: "This is huge. For months, my colleagues and I have been calling for world leaders to #CutMethane and take real action on addressing the climate crisis. We can't sit around and wait. We need bold actions, like this, to save our planet." [Tweet, 11/2/21]
Illinois Congressman Mike Quigley: "Methane's heat trapping impact is orders of magnitude more powerful than CO2. President Biden's historic announcement that the US is committed to helping cut methane by 30 percent will be instrumental in the fight against climate change." [Tweet, 11/2/21]
California Congresswoman Nanette Barragán: "#Methane from oil & gas operations harms the public health of nearby communities and worsens climate change. Good to see @POTUS & @EPA take this critical step to regulate methane. @EPA needs to include frequent inspections at all wells and ban routine flaring in the final rule." [Tweet, 11/2/21]
Washington Congresswoman Pramila Jayapal: "This is a great step from @POTUS. It is critical that we do everything possible to combat climate change and guarantee a liveable planet for future generations." [Tweet, 11/2/21]
Pennsylvania Congresswoman Susan Wild: "Two excellent takeaways here:Reducing methane emissions by 30% will go a long way towards reaching our climate goals by 2030.It will boost our economy, save companies money, and create good-paying, union jobs for our workers." [Tweet, 11/2/21]
State, Local, and Tribal Officials
Washington Governor Jay Inslee: "As I head to #COP26, I'm thrilled @EPA is taking strong action to curtail methane. I thank the @POTUS Biden administration for stepping up ? and for recognizing state leadership." [Tweet, 11/2/21]
New Mexico Governor Michelle Lujan Grisham: "Great news today from #COP26: The @WhiteHouse is following New Mexico's lead by announcing new rules designed to cut methane pollution across the country, combatting climate change and protecting public health and the environment." [Tweet, 11/2/21]
Basil Seggos, Commissioner, New York State Department of Environmental Conservation: "Big news from #COP26: @POTUS @EPA and @EPAMichaelRegan slashing methane nation-wide, and bringing 80+ countries into a broader methane pact. Methane is a major contributor to climate change. Here in NY, we're doing our part with a stringent rulemaking nearing completion." [Tweet, 11/2/21]
Brian Frosh, Maryland Attorney General: "This is a big deal. Methane is a potent greenhouse gas that traps 30 times the heat of CO2. Oil companies often just vent it. This EPA rule will require steep cuts in emissions." [Tweet, 11/2/21]
Maura Healey, Massachusetts Attorney General: "This is huge?the EPA is acting to protect our climate and the public from unhealthy pollution. Our team has been advocating for this for almost a decade. In the midst of COP26, the reconciliation bill, and the EPA stepping up, we see hope. " [Tweet, 11/2/21]
Gwen Lachelt, Executive Director, Western Leaders Network: "Climate change is one of the greatest threats local and tribal communities across the Interior West are facing today, and strong federal rules to curb methane pollution from the oil and gas sector are central to addressing this crisis. Western Leaders Network commends the EPA for these proposed rules to cut pollution from new and existing industry operations. This is a good first step and a heartening acknowledgement that cutting methane emissions is non-negotiable if we hope to mitigate climate change. We now ask EPA to strengthen these rules by establishing regular leak monitoring requirements for all oil and gas wells, to protect our environment and the public health and safety of our communities." [Statement, 11/2/21]
Hilary Cooper, San Miguel County Commissioner and Western Leaders Network Member: "Methane pollution from the oil and gas industry is exacerbating climate change and threatening the health of our communities and constituents. Colorado has proven that substantive methane regulation of the oil and gas industry is possible with the partnership of the industry; in fact, Colorado's methane capture industry is one of the largest in the U.S. Now the EPA must finalize strong federal safeguards to protect our communities around the country and take meaningful action on climate." [Statement, 11/2/21]
Letitia James, New York Attorney General: "Methane is a dangerous greenhouse gas that is one of the greatest contributors to climate change. I've taken legal action to cut methane emissions and protect our planet, and I'm pleased to see this administration announce these new policies." [Tweet, 11/2/21]
  