
    
Find the perfect place to celebrate Small Business Saturday.
Small businesses have a special place in Hillary's heart. Her father owned a drapery company, and, through him, she witnessed the ups and downs that come with small business ownership.
Celebrate Small Business Saturday by checking out some of Hillary's favorite small businesses from the road.

Area Kids in Brooklyn, New York: a grandmother's paradise.

This cozy shop in Brooklyn Heights (right down the street from Hillary's campaign headquarters!) has everything a new grandmother could ask for. Hillary picked up a cute, floral romper for Charlotte.

Popcorn Heaven in Cedar Falls, Iowa: the name says it all.

Popcorn Heaven's specialty? The Iowa mix: a blend of white cheddar, cheese, and caramel-flavored kernels.

La Flor De Michoacan in Las Vegas, Nevada: ?helado cl?sico!

Their lim?n ice cream?is delightful—Hillary loved it!

Main Street Cafe in Council Bluffs, Iowa: the perfect cozy coffee shop.

One of Hillary's first stops on the trail—and one of her most memorable.

Sweet Potato Sensations in Detroit, Michigan: home to every single sweet potato dish you can imagine.

She tried a bite of everything! Hillary's favorites were the sweet potato cobbler and the sweet potato cheesecake.

Smuttynose Brewery in Hampton, New Hampshire: craft beer central.



Lots to learn on this brewery tour.


  We're teaching @HillaryClinton how to check wort strength! #checkyourgravity pic.twitter.com/OaN1S6wfRJ— Smuttynose Brewing (@smuttynosebeer) May 22, 2015

Kiki's Chicken and Waffles in Columbia, South Carolina: for the classic Sunday brunch.

There's no question about what to order here.

Laree's in Independence, Iowa: filled with favorites.

Spotted: a plush toy barn that makes farm noises, on its way to Charlotte.

Bike Tech in Cedar Falls, Iowa: a one-stop cycling shop.

A month into her campaign, Hillary chose Bike Tech to host a roundtable discussion about small businesses.


  RT if you agree with Hillary: Small business is at the heart of our economy. pic.twitter.com/xjhr6aupq1— Hillary Clinton (@HillaryClinton) May 19, 2015

Learn more about Hillary's plan to strengthen small business.
  