
    Steven Joseph Chabot, of Ohio, to be a Representative of the United States of America to the Fifty-sixth Session of the General Assembly of the United Nations.
Naomi Churchill Earp, of Virginia, to be a Member of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission for a term expiring July 1, 2005, vice Reginald Earl Jones, term expired.
Eni F. H. Faleomavaega, of American Samoa, to be a Representative of the United States of America to the Fifty-sixth Session of the General Assembly of the United Nations.
Lawrence A. Greenfeld, of Maryland, to be Director of the Bureau of Justice Statistics, vice Jan M. Chaiken, resigned.
Michael Hammond, of Texas, to be Chairperson of the National Endowment for the Arts for a term of four years, vice William James Ivey, resigned.
Donna Jean Hrinak, of Virginia, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Federative Republic of Brazil.
JoAnn Johnson, of Iowa, to be a Member of the National Credit Union Administration Board for a term expiring August 2, 2007, vice Yolanda Townsend Wheat, term expired.
Sean O'Keefe, of New York, to be Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, vice Daniel S. Goldin, resigned.
Francis Joseph Ricciardone, Jr., of New Hampshire, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of the Philippines and to serve concurrently and without additional compensation as Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Palau.
Frederick W. Schieck, of Virginia, to be Deputy Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development, vice Harriet C. Babbitt, resigned.
Diane Leneghan Tomb, of Virginia, to be an Assistant Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, vice Jean Nolan, resigned.
Roger P. Winter, of Maryland, to be an Assistant Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development, vice Hugh Q. Parmer, resigned.
  