
    Katherine Almquist, of Virginia, to be an Assistant Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development, vice Lloyd O. Pierson, resigned.
Andrew G. Biggs, of New York, to be Deputy Commissioner of Social Security for the remainder of the term expiring January 19, 2007, vice James B. Lockhart III.
Andrew G. Biggs, of New York, to be Deputy Commissioner of Social Security for a term expiring January 19, 2013.
(Reappointment)
Dan Gregory Blair, of the District of Columbia, to be a Commissioner of the Postal Rate Commission for a term expiring October 14, 2012, vice George A. Omas, term expired.
Terry L. Cline, of Oklahoma, to be Administrator of the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration, Department of Health and Human Services, vice Charles Curie, resigned.
Benjamin Donenberg, of California, to be a Member of the National Council on the Arts for a term expiring September 3, 2012, vice Maribeth McGinley, term expired.
Charles E. Dorkey III, of New York, to be a Member of the Advisory Board of the Saint Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation, vice James S. Simpson.
Foreststorn Hamilton, of New York, to be a Member of the National Council on the Arts for a term expiring September 3, 2012, vice Mary Costa, term expired.
Richard Allan Hill, of Montana, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for National and Community Service for a term expiring June 10, 2009, vice Juanita Sims Doty, term expired.
Daine Humetewa, of Arizona, to be a Member of the Board of Trustees of the Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation for a term expiring August 25, 2012, vice Richard Narcia, term expired.
Joan Israelite, of Missouri, to be a Member of the National Council on the Arts for a term expiring September 3, 2012, vice Don V. Cogman, term expired.
Mark Everett Keenum, of Mississippi, to be Under Secretary of Agriculture for Farm and Foreign Agricultural Services, vice J. B. Penn.
Mark Everett Keenum, of Mississippi, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Commodity Credit Corporation, vice J. B. Penn.
Scott A. Keller, of Florida, to be an Assistant Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, vice Steven B. Nesmith, resigned.
Charlotte P. Kessler, of Ohio, to be a Member of the National Council on the Arts for a term expiring September 3, 2012, vice Katharine DeWitt, term expired.
Robert Bretley Lott, of Louisiana, to be a Member of the National Council on the Arts for a term expiring September 3, 2012, vice Teresa Lozano Long, term expired.
William Francis Price, Jr., of California, to be a Member of the National Council on the Arts for a term expiring September 3, 2012, vice Evelyn Dee Potter Rose, term expired.
Anthony W. Ryan, of Massachusetts, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Treasury, vice Timothy S. Bitsberger.
Paul A. Schneider, of Maryland, to be Under Secretary for Management, Department of Homeland Security, vice Janet Hale, resigned.
Leon R. Sequeira, of Virginia, to be an Assistant Secretary of Labor, vice Veronica Vargas Stidvent.
Ellen C. Williams, of Kentucky, to be a Governor of the United States Postal Service for a term expiring December 8, 2016.
(Reappointment)
  