
    Dear Ted:
It is with deep regret that I accept your resignation as Secretary of Education, effective December 31, 1984. Of course, I understand that you have made this decision for personal reasons, but I want you to know how greatly I will miss you as a member of my Cabinet.
When we entered office four years ago, there was a widespread feeling that American education was not meeting the high standard of excellence it had attained in the past. You gave voice to that feeling but, more than that, you provided leadership in developing solutions to the problems of our schools. As a result, there is a new dedication in America to achieving educational excellence.
This dedication exists not only at the Federal level but also, and more importantly, at the grassroots level. In communities all across America, parents, students and teachers are devoting their time and energy to making their local schools as good as they can possibly be. You have provided these citizen activists with a clear and inspiring example of effective leadership in Washington, and you have made sure that the Federal government listens and responds to their concerns. This achievement is one that will continue to bear good fruit for many years to come, and I want to thank you personally for a job well done.
As you return to private life, it is with a great record of accomplishment. Nancy and I send you our best wishes for every future success and happiness.
RON
November 8, 1984
Dear Mr. President,
Because of personal circumstances that I have discussed with Jim Baker, I submit my resignation as U.S. Secretary of Education effective December 31, 1984.
The past four years have been the most challenging and exciting in my professional life. Serving the country as a member of your cabinet has been a signal honor.
I leave my position feeling that we are in the midst of a lasting and meaningful academic renewal that will benefit millions of learners in our nation's schools and colleges. It has been a pleasure to serve under your leadership in our quest for excellence in education.
Thank you for the privilege of serving in your cabinet, and may God bless you as you carry out your awesome responsibilities of providing leadership and direction for our great Republic.
Sincerely,
TED T.H. Bell
  