
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

Eleven million Americans suffer from diabetes. The disease strikes men, women, and children of all races. It takes many forms and is likely to have many causes, but the long-term outcome is the same—over the years, diabetes damages the heart, blood vessels, kidneys, eyes, and nerves. The disease and its complications affect individuals and our country heavily in terms of illness, disability, and economic loss.
Through research, we are learning how diabetes occurs, how it causes complications, and how in the future we may short-circuit its effects. We are also improving the understanding and management of diabetes, thereby helping people with this disease to minimize the threat of complications.
Nevertheless, much work lies ahead. As research continues to provide insights, the communication of new information to those in the forefront of managing this disease-primary care practitioners and people with diabetes—will permit new advances to be put into practice.
Through research we can find a way to eradicate this disease, and through public awareness we can keep those with diabetes healthier than ever before. The continued cooperation of the Federal Government, the scientific community, and private individuals and organizations makes our success in both these realms possible.
To increase public awareness of diabetes and to emphasize the need for continued research efforts, the Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 272, has designated November 1988 as "National Diabetes Month" and authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this occasion.
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim November 1988 as National Diabetes Month, and I call upon concerned governmental agencies, health care providers, and the people of the United States to observe this month with appropriate programs, ceremonies, and activities.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this fifth day of November, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-eight, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and thirteenth.

RONALD REAGAN
  