
    LITTLE ROCK, AR – Huckabee for President Campaign Manager Chip Saltsman issued the following comment today regarding the National Right to Life Committee's endorsement of Senator Fred Thompson:
"Mike Huckabee has been an ardent champion of the pro-life movement. He is the only candidate who has actually delivered on pro-life issues by pushing and signing and working to get them passed, including a life amendment to Arkansas' constitution. In light of the Governor's passionate and lifelong dedication to promoting life issues, and Senator Thompson's recent statements that he does not support a constitutional amendment on life or the Republican Party's platform, this was a disappointing decision.
"There are Washington insiders who say this decision was made because of politics. I want to address this point. With no money being spent on paid campaign advertising & little name ID to begin with, the Huckabee campaign has outworked the competition and has spent fewer resources more wisely, with a message that is resonating with the people. We are one of only two campaigns whose polling numbers were higher at the end of the month than they were at the beginning of the month of October, up 7 points to be exact, having more than doubled our starting number.
"In fact, Rasmussen has shown Governor Huckabee ahead of, or tied with, Governor Romney and Senator McCain on a regular basis. Regarding the general election, Rasmussen shows Governor Huckabee in a statistical tie in a match-up with Senator Hillary Clinton, with Clinton ahead by 3 points (46% to 43%). He is the only one in the field – of either party – who has run against the Clinton political machine and he has won, not once but four times. The same poll shows Mayor Giuliani and Senator Thompson at 42% against Clinton.
"The last five polls out of the state of Iowa show the Huckabee campaign coming in 2nd place, or in a statistical tie for 2nd place. These polls, along with other indicators, show the political reality that Governor Huckabee is a viable and ‘electable' candidate.
"The Governor welcomes the support of those in the pro-life movement, particularly at the grassroots level, and others who believe in an optimistic, conservative, forward-looking vision for America's future."
  