
    Named to the National Hispanic Leadership Council
The Clinton campaign today announced the endorsement of Rhode Island State Senator Juan M. Pichardo, and named him to the campaign's National Hispanic Leadership Council.
"Senator Clinton is the candidate with the strength and the experience necessary to bring about the change that our country so desperately needs," said Pichardo.
Elected to serve the 2nd Senatorial District, Juan M. Pichardo is the first Latino ever to be elected to a Senate seat in the state of Rhode Island, as well as the first Dominican American elected to a State Senate seat in the United States.
In the General Assembly, Senator Pichardo serves as Senate Deputy Majority Leader, and as member of the Senate Committee on Finance, where he's the Chairman of the Subcommittee on Human Services and Transportation. In addition, he also serves as Secretary of the Health and Human Services Committee, Co-Chairman of the RI Minority Legislative Leadership Caucus and is a member of the Board of Directors of the National Hispanic Caucus of State Legislators where he chairs the Task Force on Economic Development.
A strong advocate of working class families, he has sponsored and won support for landmark legislation combating predatory lending and has co-sponsored legislation to create a Commission charged with the reducing poverty among families and increasing their income and wealth for long term economic success.
Senator Pichardo arrived to the United States from Jicome-Santiago, Dominican Republic in 1975 at the age of nine, and lived in New York City with his mother and two sisters. In 1979, he moved to Providence, where he still lives with his wife Janet and three young children. Since relocating to Rhode Island he has been actively involved in the community throughout different stages of his life, addressing issues of education, economic development, quality of life, fair housing and promotion of civic participation.
"Juan Pichardo has been a true advocate for the families of Rhode Island, and I am honored to have his support," said Senator Hillary Clinton. "With his help, we will continue to bring our message of change to the Hispanic community."
  