
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

Traditionally, the American family has both symbolized and fostered the values that are at the heart of any truly strong and caring society -- values such as faithfulness, commitment, and respect and concern for others. During National Family Caregivers Week, as we celebrate the American family and its ability to care for its members, we also reaffirm the importance of those values to us as individuals and as a Nation.
Each day millions of Americans provide various forms of assistance to relatives incapacitated by age, illness, or disability. In addition to home nursing care and companionship, these family caregivers may provide physically impaired loved ones with financial support, transportation, and help with shopping, cooking, and daily household maintenance. Their generous and devoted labors are invaluable to the relative who might otherwise be forced to live in an institutional setting.
Through their dedicated efforts, family caregivers not only help ill and elderly loved ones to maintain their dignity and independence but also provide wonderful examples of the love and commitment that are the essence of family life. This week we proudly salute these hardworking men and women.
The Congress, by House Joint Resolution 525, has designated the week of November 18 through November 24, 1990, as "National Family Caregivers Week" and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this week.
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the week of November 18 through November 24, 1990, as National Family Caregivers Week. I encourage the people of the United States to observe this week with appropriate programs, ceremonies, and activities.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this twentieth day of November, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fifteenth.

GEORGE BUSH
  