
    Debate Five Reviews Keep Pouring In: Kamala Dominated the Debate Stage
"Strong and Clear", "Best night", "On Fire", "A Cut Above the Rest" and "A Force For Justice"
In the fifth Democratic debate, Senator Kamala Harris once again delivered a standout performance, and took the fight directly to Donald Trump.
Harris stood out in a crowded field on the debate stage making clear she is the one who has the ability to go toe to toe with Donald Trump and to rebuild the Obama coalition and bring the party and the nation together.
Reporters, pundits, activists, and elected officials agree that Kamala Harris owned the stage and delivered an incredibly strong debate performance.
And read some of the reviews below:

Politico Mag: Kamala Harris Showed Up for Black Women.


New York Times: Watch Kamala Harris Criticize Politicians for Taking Black Women for Granted


Mediaite: Kamala Harris Calls Out Trump Getting 'Punk'd' by North Korea: 'He's Traded a Photo-Op for Nothing'


CNN Commentary: Julian Zelizer: Harris shows that she can deliver a punch


Washington Post (Opinion): "This was the Harris of the June debate in which she dominated and mounted forceful attacks against Trump and Biden. She also spoke authoritatively on her child care and leave policy, stressing her focus on working women and the extra burden on women of color who don't get paid equally to men."


SF Chronicle: 'Nope, that's not true': Kamala Harris fires back when Joe Biden misspeaks at Democratic debate


Politico: Harris whacks Gabbard over criticism of fellow Democrats


Tanya Flanagan, Nevada African-American community leader: Commander in Chief and "concern herself" in the same sentence. Claim that post @KamalaHarris Well said! #DemDebate


Rose McKinney-James, Nevada clean energy leader: Thrilled to witness first hand the power, strength and inspiration that is @SenKamalaHarris she demonstrated her amazing ability to speak truth, connect and lead. So honored to have the opportunity to experience it Atlanta, the "cradle of the civil rights movement #ForThePeople


Jon Ralston, editor, The Nevada Independent: This is a pretty strong answer by @KamalaHarris after refusing to take the bait to go after @PeteButtigieg. #DemDebate


Cecia Alvarado, Nevada State Director for Mi Familia Vota: "Sen. Kamala Harris gave one of the strongest defenses of working families and Latinas of the night. On Latina Equal Pay Day, she brought up paid family leave, equal pay, and fighting for economic justice for women. Her message was strong and clear. We need more candidates willing to fight to close the gap in pay and resources in the workplace for women."


Cecia Alvarado, Nevada State Director for Mi Familia Vota: "Sen. Kamala Harris gave one of the strongest defenses of working families and Latinas of the night. On Latina Equal Pay Day, she brought up paid family leave, equal pay, and fighting for economic justice for women. Her message was strong and clear. We need more candidates willing to fight to close the gap in pay and resources in the workplace for women."


Beth Gildea, Brookline activist: "Senator Kamala Harris has been speaking powerfully about the issues for months...I'm glad so many are taking notice of the fierce fighter I've been behind for months. Harris can beat Trump AND has the plans to make our lives better."


The Honorable Jackie Weatherspoon, Co-Chair of the NHDP African American Caucus: "I've long said this, but tonight made even more clear that Kamala Harris is the candidate for the moment. She stood out on tonight's crowded debate stage by making clear that, with the most lawless and divisive president in recent history, justice is on the ballot and that she can beat Trump with class and diplomacy. She will make us proud as our nominee and president."


State Rep. Patty Cornell, Assistant House Majority Leader: "Once again, Kamala Harris was a cut above the rest on the debate stage. She showed that she can go toe to toe with Trump with her combination of experience, vision, and toughness. I'm proudly in her corner tonight."


Ross Wilburn, State Representative, Ames: "Enthusiastic about @KamalaHarris being #ForThePeople! The campaign announced that organizers and volunteers have knocked over 200,000 doors in Iowa since August alone. Keep it rolling #KHive"


Jean Hessburg, Iowa Democratic Party Women's Caucus Chair, Des Moines: "KAMALA HARRIS FOR THE PEOPLE; speaks to all of us; for all of us; with all of us. Yes."


Penny Rosfjord, Iowa Democratic Party SCC member and former Woodbury County Democrats Chair, Sioux City: "Kamala knows that justice is on the ballot. Whether it be her time as District Attorney, Attorney General, in the Senate, or on the debate stage, she has always fought for those who can't fight for themselves. And as president she will stand up not for any one group, but for the people."


former State Legislator and CNN Commentator Bakari Sellers:"AA female mortality is a serious issue. It's not JUST a campaign issue. My wife and I are personally grateful for @KamalaHarris leading on this issue."


USC political science professor David Darmofal: ".@KamalaHarris is one of the few candidates on that stage who is a plausible Commander-in-Chief."


Political science professor Dave Redlawsk: "I'm in Columbia, SC at Kamala Harris's HQ to watch the debate. Folks here include staffers/volunteers/and some real people. We're being treated to Harris's new ad; how exciting one person says. Folks react with cheers and hoots, really like it."


South Carolina State Senator and Senior Pastor at Bible Way Church of Atlas Road, Darrell Jackson: "Kamala Harris was exceptional tonight. She is unequivocally committed to fighting for justice on behalf of the American people. Kamala spoke with authority on every issue, a reflection of her ability to bring about economic justice, health care justice, racial justice, and more as our next president. It's clear that she is the fighter who's ready to fight for all people."


South Carolina Representative JA Moore: "Kamala Harris was truly a force for justice on the debate stage tonight. She spoke passionately about her career-long fight for justice and highlighted her decades fighting on behalf of the people. Kamala is exactly the person we need to stand up to this corrupt administration in 2020 -- she has fought bad actors her entire career, and she's won time and time again. Kamala is clear-eyed about the task ahead, and she will not waver."


CA Secretary of State Alex Padilla: "Tonight, Kamala Harris showed why she is the best candidate to take on Trump in November to ensure justice wins in 2020. She spoke powerfully against the injustices that many of our communities face - working class families, people of color, and women who are struggling in this economy. I'm proud to be with Kamala."


CA Assemblymember Miguel Santiago: "Kamala Harris belongs in this race, and she showed all of America tonight that she can win. She has what it takes to trounce Donald Trump, fight for our most marginalized communities, and restore justice for every community that has been cast aside by this lawless administration."


Long Beach Mayor Robert Garcia: I've been proud to support Kamala from day one - and she reminded me tonight what this campaign is all about. #DemDebate #ForThePeople

  