
    Cannon is one of only four openly transgender state legislators in the country
Booker earns field-leading 87th New Hampshire endorsement
Manchester, NH — New Hampshire State Representative Gerri Cannon (Somersworth) -- one of the first openly transgender state legislators in the Granite State and one of just four nationwide -- today endorsedCory Booker for president. The endorsement is Booker's 87th New Hampshire endorsement -- which leads the entire 2020 field -- and comes one day before Booker officially files for the New Hampshire primary ballot in Concord. It also comes in the midst of Trans Awareness Week, which began on Wednesday.
"Cory Booker has experience, empathy and a track record of fighting for everyone. These qualities make him uniquely capable of healing our country and uniting not just Democrats but all Americans as we seek to repair the damage of the current administration," said State Rep. Gerri Cannon. "Not only has Cory has been a leading champion for LGBTQ equality for his entire career, but he's fought for justice for so many who have been left out or left behind. I'm proud to endorse Cory because he is exactly what our country needs in this moment and in this election."
Cannon was elected in 2018 and represents Strafford County District 18. She is also a member of the Somersworth school board and was a Freedom NH Steering Committee member. Earlier this year, Cannon led passage of legislation to add a gender-neutral option for driver's licenses, which takes effect in January.
Booker's long record of standing up for LGBTQ Americans includes being the first candidate to call attention to the murders of black transgender women on the debate stage in June. Further, when Bookertook office as the mayor of New Jersey's largest city, he refused to officiate any wedding until all couples could legally wed. When LGBTQ couples were finally allowed to marry in 2013, Booker officiated the first ceremony for an LGBTQ couple.
In addition to Cannon, Booker has earned the backing of three state senators, 16 state representatives, the state's longest-serving mayor, and dozens of key activists across New Hampshire.
  