
    Throughout the month of November, we come together as one country to acknowledge the challenges faced by Americans struggling with Alzheimer's disease, while also pledging our support for the compassionate individuals who care for the men and women living with this devastating condition. As we solemnly remember the family and friends we have lost to this deadly disease, we vow never to relent in our determination to find a cure.
As the sixth leading cause of death in the United States, Alzheimer's disease not only affects the ability to recount precious memories but also disrupts the capacity to perform tasks essential to a full, independent life. The friends and family of the more than 5 million Americans living with this abominable disease dedicate countless hours and financial resources to enhancing the quality of life of their loved ones.
As a Nation, we must—and we will—do more to give patients and their families hope when it comes to an Alzheimer's diagnosis. That is why I signed into law the Building Our Largest Dementia (BOLD) Infrastructure for Alzheimer's Act in December of 2018. This critical, bipartisan legislation will help to enhance Alzheimer's-focused public health infrastructure, improve disease-related information-sharing, and raise awareness about the disease. Additionally, the BOLD Act authorizes activities that will build on the progress made by cutting-edge physicians and scientists to increase early detection and diagnosis, reduce health disparities, support and enhance care plans, and ultimately help us find a cure.
As we observe National Alzheimer's Disease Awareness Month, we take this time to remind those struggling just how much we love and cherish them, and we honor the caregivers, doctors, nurses, behavioral therapists, and other health professionals who aid and comfort these individuals and their families. Together, we will continue to pursue new research in search of a breakthrough that will alleviate the suffering of the millions of Americans diagnosed with Alzheimer's.
  