
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

Georgraphic conditions around the world have had a great influence upon both the history of mankind and the course of current events. Geography has been an important factor in the social, political, and economic development of virtually every nation. Thus, the study of geography -- the study of a people, their environment, their cultural heritage, and their natural resources -- is essential not only to our understanding of the past but also to our ability to participate in an increasingly interdependent world.
While public awareness of geography is important to our Nation's political and economic leadership in the world, far too many Americans have little knowledge of the subject. According to one recent poll, Americans ranked among the bottom third on an international test of geographical knowledge. Scores for Americans between the ages of 18 and 24 were particularly poor. Statistics have indicated that a large number of American students cannot locate the United States on a map of the world, and many adults cannot name more than one-fourth of the NATO member nations. Some cannot name any.
This lack of fundamental geographic knowledge, including knowledge of foreign languages and cultures, places the United States at a serious disadvantage in matters of international commerce and politics. We cannot develop or maintain effective foreign policies, trade strategies, and business practices if the physical characteristics and political boundaries of various regions of the world are unfamiliar to us. Likewise, our efforts to promote international understanding and cooperation depend, in large part, upon our ability to understand the language, customs, and physical circumstances of other peoples. Because geographic conditions can have a profound effect upon each nation's development and role in the world, it is vital that we study them carefully.
During Geography Awareness Week, we recognize the importance of encouraging every American citizen to develop a thorough understanding of elementary georgraphy. Fortunately, we have already begun to address the need for improvements in America's educational system, including renewed emphasis on the basics. By imparting to our Nation's schoolchildren a greater understanding of geography, and by ensuring that we set a positive example for them through our own efforts to study the world around us, we can give them one of the most important tools they will need to function in the global community.
To focus attention on the importance of the study and mastery of geography, the Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 120, has designated the week beginning November 12, 1989, as "Geography Awareness Week" and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this week.
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the week beginning November 12, 1989, as Georgraphy Awareness Week. I urge all Americans to observe this week with appropriate ceremonies and activities.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this ninth day of November, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-nine, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fourteenth.

GEORGE BUSH
  