
    I am delighted to be here in Brazil, to have the opportunity to see this city which is famous the world over as an expression of Brazil's confidence in its destiny. I look forward to strengthening my friendship with President Figueiredo, so warmly begun in May, and to continue the discussions we began in Washington.
We're here on a working visit. In addition to Secretary of State Shultz, I have with me Treasury Secretary Regan and our Trade Representative, Ambassador Brock, and other leaders of our government. We're prepared to discuss a wide range of subjects.
I also look forward to learning firsthand about this giant country and the contrast between this city and Sao Paulo, which is so well know the world over as an industrial and metropolitan wonder.
Our societies are similar in that we both have a frontier tradition, an openness, and vision for greatness. The roots of our nations are also similar. We are both melting pots—nations that succeeded in giving their citizens, no matter what their origins, an opportunity to share with their initiative, hard work, and intelligence in the vision of freedom: freedom to worship and to work in dignity for a better life.
You in Brazil have great dreams, and a vast nation blessed with enormous resources in which to fulfill them. Here in Brasilia we see dramatic proof of the spirit of a people with unlimited drive, determination, and confidence in their future. We all know of the strong and steady advance of Brazil both domestically and internationally. Your elections November 15th demonstrate Brazil's confidence in itself and its stability in freedom. Similarly, the management of the Brazilian economy through times of economic difficulty around the world inspires us all that our present problems can be overcome.
And while we may have areas of disagreement, we also have a great deal in common. I'm sure our talks will be fruitful and prove beneficial to both our countries.
On behalf of the people of the United States I bring you our good wishes and friendship. And, President Figueiredo, thank you for welcoming me. I already feel at home.
  