
    
  While his opponents offered empty sound-bites, Governor Huntsman laid out his bold and detailed plan - endorsed by the Wall Street Journal - to create jobs and revitalize America's economy.

In recent days a wave of momentum has opened a window of opportunity for our campaign, and at this evening's presidential debate in Michigan, Jon Huntsman seized it.
While his opponents offered empty sound-bites, Governor Huntsman laid out his bold and detailed plan - endorsed by the Wall Street Journal - to create jobs and revitalize America's economy.
He highlighted his record as a consistent, conservative problem-solver who cut taxes historically, tripled Utah's rainy day fund, signed a school voucher bill and passed health care reform without a mandate.
Governor Huntsman also distinguished himself as the only candidate with hands-on foreign policy experience who knows our biggest competitor - China - and has offered a serious plan to transform our military and defense posture for the 21st Century.
The American people are suffering from a trust deficit - trust in our economy, in our overseas entanglements, in Wall Street, in government. Governor Huntsman - whose positions are driven by conviction, not convenience - possesses the record, resume and vision to restore trust with the American people.
And as the New York Times and Jack Welch recently pointed out, he is also the candidate who is best-equipped to defeat President Obama next November.
If you agree that Governor Huntsman is the best candidate to defeat Barack Obama, I urge you to make an immediate donation this evening of $25, $50, $100 or the maximum donation of $2,500 to help support our campaign.
Then please email your network of friends and family and encourage them to visit www.jon2012.com to learn more about our campaign.
We are so grateful for your continued support.  Thank you!
Standing proudly with Jon Huntsman,
Matt David
Campaign Manager
PS  Governor Huntsman shined in this evening's debate.  Help us build on our momentum by sharing this blog with your friends and family on facebook and twitter and by visiting our website to make an immediate donation of $25, $50, $100 or the maximum donation of $2,500.
  