
    Graham: "This Is Not Just An Attack On The French People, It Is An Attack On Human Decency And All Things That We Hold Dear. My Heart Breaks For The Families Of Those Killed, The Hostages, And The Injured."
Alexandria, VA - In light of the ISIL claimed terror attacks in Paris, Senator Lindsey Graham joined the Hugh Hewitt show last night and NBC's TODAY Show this morning to respond to the attacks and discuss his plan to defeat radical Islam. In case you missed it, listen to the interview with Hugh Hewitt here, watch the full interview with NBC's TODAY Show here and read his full statement on the attacks here.
"I Can Tell You A Game Plan Where You Form Alliances That Do Two Things - Check Iran As Well As Destroy ISIL."(Hugh Hewitt, "Senator Lindsey Graham On The Paris Attack And The Growing Jihadist Threat," The Hugh Hewitt Show, 11/13/15)

"I have a firm understanding of what the threat is and a plan to deal with it that includes Iran, not just radical Sunni Islam."
"Not only should [radical Islam] be part of the discussion we're having here in terms of who should be the next commander-in-chief, it should be a part of the discussion between the civilized world as to how we respond."(Hugh Hewitt, "Senator Lindsey Graham On The Paris Attack And The Growing Jihadist Threat," The Hugh Hewitt Show, 11/13/15)
 
"This Is A Generational Struggle And Most Young People Are With Us. Offer Them A Hopeful Life Versus A Glorious Death."(NBC News, "Lindsay Graham: I have never seen such a desire from France to attack ISIS," TODAY Show, 11/14/15)

"Very Few People Want To Turn Their Daughters Over To ISIL. I've Been There 35 Times And To Say Otherwise, You Just Don't Know What's Going On. So There Is Hope, But We Need A New Strategy."
"As They Grow In Lethality Over There, We're Reducing Our Defense Capabilities Here. I'm Urging Members Of Congress To Up Our Budgets So We Can Have Better Intelligence And Hit Them Before They Hit Us."
"I Would Go In With The Region, Let Them Lead The Way, Provide Capability They Don't Have, Destroy Them In Syria And Hold The Ground""So how do you do it? Every Arab government in the region would give us their armies. Turkey would also. But we'll have to be part of that force. They have about 40,000 inside of Syria, 80 or 100,000 people from the region with about 10% of the force being American military. I would go in with the region, let them lead the way, provide capability they don't have, destroy them in Syria and hold the ground... After 35 trips, here's what you do: you don't leave, you stay. You help young women get a better education. You give them a voice for the future of their children. You build a small school house in a remote region in Afghanistan to destroy the Taliban over time. This is a generational struggle and most young people are with us. Offer them a hopeful life versus a glorious death." (NBC News, "Lindsay Graham: I have never seen such a desire from France to attack ISIS," TODAY Show, 11/14/15)
"The Desire To Kill Is Only Limited By [ISIL's] Capability To Kill... The Good News Is That The Region And The World Is Becoming More United Against This Barbaric Behavior.""The desire to kill is only limited by their capability to kill. And it's more than ironic that the things that we enjoy most in life, which is having dinner with friends and going to a concert, they hate the most. I think the targets that was obviously intentional, but...I worry about our homeland. I've been saying that for two years now. ISIL is just getting too strong. Al Qaeda has not been decimated. And we need an offensive strategy. Let's don't be lambs to the slaughter here. It's not working from an aerial point of view. The good news is that the region and the world is becoming more united against this barbaric behavior. And we just need some leadership to rally the world to deal with it effectively, and I think we can." (Hugh Hewitt, "Senator Lindsey Graham On The Paris Attack And The Growing Jihadist Threat," The Hugh Hewitt Show, 11/13/15)
"We've Got Really Two Threat Lines Here. You've Got Radical Islam In The Sunni Form" And "Iran""We've got really two threat lines here. You've got radical Islam in the Sunni form, which is al Qaeda/ISIL/al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula. You know, they do mass casualty events. They are not nation-states in the traditional sense. But Iran is. Now they're Shiite radicals. The Ayatollah is a religious Nazi. His form of Islam requires him to destroy Israel, attack infidels like us and purify the faith. That's why I worry so much about this nuclear deal. What I think we've accomplished with the deal with Iran is to give the Ayatollah's regime power in perpetuity. He's stronger, not weaker, a pathway to a bomb in 15 years. He doesn't have to cheat. He can get a bomb, a missile to deliver it in a few years, and $100 billion dollars to pay for it all. I mean, that deal has to be reconfigured, and has to be set aside. If we don't, we'll all regret it mightily." (Hugh Hewitt, "Senator Lindsey Graham On The Paris Attack And The Growing Jihadist Threat," The Hugh Hewitt Show, 11/13/15)
  