
    [music: Lee Greenwood, "God Bless the USA"]
THE PRESIDENT: Wow, thank you so much. Hello, West Virginia. What a place. [applause]
You know, we only won West Virginia by 42 points last time. [applause]
42 points. You know what that is? That's like did anyone ever hear of 42 points? And we're going to better this time, OK? [applause]
But I'm thrilled to be back in this great state. I love this state with thousands of hard working American patriots. And what job numbers we had today. Did you hear? [applause]
Did you hear? We're going to that. They all say speak about the economy. Speak about the economy. Well, we have the greatest economy in the history of our country. . . [applause] . . . but sometimes it's not as exciting to talk about the economy, right? Because we have a lot of other things to talk about. Also, very important, the economy I unbelievable. You know it better than anybody because your state under our great governor big Jim Justice wherever he may be. [applause]
Where is he? Where's big Jim? He's around here someplace. One thing you can't miss him. There he is. You can't miss him. He's got to be 6'11" and he's up there in the weight, but I won't get into it. [laughter]
He's the greatest. But I'm going to introduce him in a second. But we're here to celebrate our amazing achievements together, to make America's incredible comeback continuing and we will.
Right now we're moving full speed ahead like nobody thought was possible. They did not think it was possible. [booing] They did not think it.
In just four days--so important. Because you have a great candidate. You have a couple of great candidates. Carol is a great candidate also. You know. Carol Miller. In just four days the people of West Virginia are going to send Carol Miller to the House and Patrick Morrisey to the Senate so we can keep making America great again. [applause]
This election will decide whether we build on the extraordinary prosperity that we've unleashed--nobody can believe what's happened. Or whether we let the radical Democrats take control of Congress and take a giant wrecking ball to our economy and to our future. [booing]
America now has the best economy in the history of our country, and we want to keep it that way. [applause]
In last month alone we added--this just came out a few hours ago--250,000 jobs. [applause] `That's in the month of October, by the way. That's for one month. And nearly half a million Americans returned to the workforce. We've created 4.5 million new jobs since the election, a number that was unthinkable. If I would have said that during the campaign, oh they would have given me a hard time.
They would have said Pinocchio, you know, they do the whole thing. Oh boy. And we've lifted 4.3 million Americans off of food stamps. [applause]
The unemployment rate just fell to the lowest level in over 50 years. More Americans are working today--think of this--than ever before. More American today, right now, this hour, are working than ever before in the history of our country. How good is that? [applause]
How do you lose that debate? When we're debating a lefty, how do you lose the debate when they're looking at you and say, "well, we're going to look at jobs." But more Americans in the history of our country. I mean that to me is--here's another one. African-Americans, Hispanic Americans, Asian Americans unemployment have all reached the lowest levels in the history of our country. [applause]
How do you lose that in a debate? How do you lose that in a debate?
It's always nice. You know, when you go into a debate it is nice to have the facts on your side. It's going to be very tough to beat. Wages are rising and you know it's uh,--it's been incredible. And it just got announced they're going at the fastest pace in much more than a decade and wages went up. First time in a long time. They haven't gone up. People were making more money 19 years ago. I used to talk about it during the campaign. Where people had single jobs and they were making more money than they had with two and three jobs today.
And now for the first time wages are going up, and they're going up nicely, and people have a choice of lots of different jobs.
And right here in West Virginia jobless claims reached the lowest level in the history of your state. Is that good? [applause]
No wonder I won by 42 points. No wonder. But then it was just talk. Remember? When I came, I was campaigning. What did you know? I mean, it was another, "Can you believe politicians?" I'm a politician. I guess. I have to say. Am I a politician?
But I said things. And we over-performed, let's put it that way. We over-performed. And West Virginia's very happy, and that coal is coming back, and our miners are working again, folks. They're working again.  [applause]
After years of rebuilding other countries, we are finally rebuilding our country. [applause]
And as you know very well, because you look at your wallet, Republicans passed a massive tax cut for working families, and we will soon follow it up with another 10 percent tax cut for the middle class.  [applause]
We've ended the war on beautiful, clean coal and we're putting our coal miners back to work. That you know better than anybody.
Remember when my opponent in the last race went to another state about four weeks before she got to West Virginia? And she was bragging, how she was going to put the coal miners out of work? Remember that? Remember that?  [booing]
And I said, "You know? I don't think this is going to play well in four weeks." She was in a non-coal state, talking about how she was going to put the coal business out of business. That didn't work.
It's doing great. And countries are buying our coal, and Asia now, you see what's happening? Asia's buying massive amounts. And you're back in business, folks. You're back in business. You wouldn't have been in business for another 12 months.  [applause]
You were going to be out of business in 12 months. You couldn't have--you couldn't have sustained it. I'm telling you, the timing was perfect. Don't ever wait that long. You were ready. You were ready to go over the cliff. That wasn't good.
But you're back in business. Your miners are back. And last year, our coal exports skyrocketed by 65 percent.  [applause]
Pretty amazing. Under Republican leadership, America is booming. America is thriving. And America is winning. Winning like never before, because we are finally putting America first. It's been a long time.  [applause]
But if Chuck Schumer--cryin' Chuck--and Nancy Pelosi. . . [booing]. . . and the legendary Maxine Waters. . . [booing]. . . take power, they will try to erase our gains and eradicate our progress. That's what's going to happen. They're going to work hard, and we will be fighting. Oh, it will be--it will be ridiculous, frankly. It'll be bad for our country.
The Democrats--and it could happen. Could happen. We're doing very well, and we're doing really well in the Senate. But it could happen.
And you know what you do? My whole life. You know what I say? Don't worry about it, I'll just figure it out. Does that make sense? I'll just figure it out. [applause]
The Democrats want to raise your taxes, restore job-killing regulations, shut down your coal mines--and, by the way, they will shut down your coal mines. You know that. That's one thing I can guarantee. We can talk about taxes, and I'll be uh veto, veto, veto. But they ultimately want to raise your taxes very substantially.
But I can tell you, they will shut down your coal mines. [booing]
They want to take away your good health care, and essentially use socialism to turn America into Venezuela. And Democrats want to totally open the borders. They have the caravans, let 'em in. Do you want to let 'em in? Does anybody want to let them in? [booing]
I don't get it. I don't get it. Think of it--you campaign on open borders and higher taxes. How the hell do you win that--how do you win?
CROWD: Build that wall! Build that Wall!
THE PRESIDENT: You're right.
CROWD: Build that wall! Build that wall!
THE PRESIDENT: Thank you. And we started the wall and built 1.6 billion and we have another 1.6 billion and then get another 1.6 billion. I want to build it all at one time, but wait till--wait till you see--go home and see tonight what our great military is doing on the border.  [applause]
Wait till you see. Go home and enjoy it. So the Democrats want to invite caravan after caravan, and I don't know if you know--you see the big caravan coming in? Three more are forming and you know what we give to these countries?
Hundreds of millions of dollars to Honduras and to El Salvador, right? We have--to others we give hundreds of millions of dollars. Do you know what they to give? Nothing--nothing. They give us nothing. They give us nothing. That's going to be stopping, that's going to be stopping.  [applause]
But caravan after caravan is forming. Unvetted, illegal aliens trying to flood into our country, on your dollar, overwhelming your schools, depleting your resources, and endangering your community. [booing] 
Homeland Security has just confirmed that members of the lawless caravan, the one you've been watching, come from 20 different countries and include among them criminals and gang members convicted of crimes ranging from armed robbery to sexual assault.
And I don't know if you saw the one--they interviewed him yesterday, and he was asking for pardon. Didn't speak English and the nice young--I guess reporter was saying oh, "you want what and what was it for?" And essentially it was for murder who wants--and he's in the caravan.
This is what we have--and you look--you look at him, you look like nice. No, no murder, right? You saw that, good I hope you saw that. And then they gave me a hard time because I put it up on Twitter and they gave me a hard time.
They said you shouldn't be doing that, that's not nice. And I say, all I'm doing is just telling the trust, what can I say? Republicans want strong borders, no drugs, no gangs, and no caravans.
The choice in this election could not be more simple, a Republican Congress means more jobs and less crime. A Democrat Congress means more crime and less jobs. That's pretty good, that's nice and simple, doesn't get simpler than that.
So this Tuesday you have to go out--I know in West Virginia you tend to vote on Tuesday more so than I guess you could do the early thing, but everyone here likes to go out--me too. There's something nice about its called Election Day.  [applause]
We're all old fashioned. That's why we get along. That's why we get along, but you have to go out on Tuesday and vote. And I'll tell you, Patrick's going to be fantastic. And you know what, he'll always vote for us. Not for me, for us. [applause]
He'll always--he's not going to be voting with Schumer or Pelosi and open borders and all the things that they want. And we're honored to be joined by a friend of mine who I just mentioned before because he is one great gentlemen.
You know, he's a very, very successful man before he did this and he did it, and he made a mistake. He ran as a democrat. And he didn't like it, and now he's a happy man and the Republican Party loves him. Big Jim Justice, your governor. Where is Jim? [applause]
Thank you, Jim. [applause]
Big Jim, you're doing a great job--stay there, Jim. Just relax. Just relax. Just relax, but I'll tell you what, are you enjoying being governor, Jim? The people love you. [applause]
65 percent up, coal exports, 65 and he works on it hard. Thank you, Jim for being here. Thanks for your support. We love--we love our governor. Thank you, Jim. [applause]
And another great friend of mine, somebody that, who has always been there, just always been there. And she is a fighter. She is very strong, tough but a great woman. He says "Melania," but that's true also. [applause]
That's true, because surely I could say Melania too. Because she's been great. Great first lady, I will say that. [applause]
And if you think it's easy being a first lady and married to me, it's not that easy. She's fantastic. But Senator Shelley Moore Capito, she was--where is Shelley? [applause]
Thanks, Shelley. Great job. Really a fantastic job, I appreciate it. Always there for us, always wanting to vote for West Virginia. Also joining us is Tim Armstead, who is running as you know for Supreme Court. A man who is highly respected and I just want to put a little word out, he's going for that extension. You know what an extension is, I guess you do a good job, you're supposed to be extended. And he has done so, Tim, wherever you may be--where's Tim? [applause]
Good luck, Tim. [applause]
Good luck, Tim. Thank you. OK? And Jim specifically said you mind doing that, he's a good man, right? He is a good man. Thank you, good luck. Do you have any opposition--any strong opposition?
It's not strong, it's opposition but not strong. Nobody's going to beat you, Tim. Not after this anyway. [laughter] Thank you, Tim.
But I'm especially proud to introduce the next person who has really become (inaudible). And he's just--he is a bundle of energy. He doesn't stop. You know, he's tied right now. They're tied in the polls, it's very close. It's very close.
And I have to say, I like Joe. The problem is I'm just not going to get Jo's vote. I'm just not going to get it. I like him; he's a friend of mine. I'm just not going to get his vote. [applause]
Even with Justice Kavanaugh, you know, I called Joe. I said, "Joe, do me a favor. I'd like you to vote." He said, "well, I may. I may." But no, but you got to vote before I win, not after we have the vote because it was a real question because nobody has ever been treated worse that Judge Brett Kavanaugh at the time now Justice Kavanaugh. Nobody, nobody.
He got blindsided like nobody ever got blindsided. What happened to him is disgraceful. And what the Democrats did and the way they played that way a disgrace, right? A disgrace.
And Joe said, "I'll think about it. I'll think about it." I said, "Joe, I don't want you to vote after we get the votes," because I didn't know we were going to have the votes without any Democrats.
We didn't get one Democratic vote, so I said, "Joe, I need the vote like today." This was a few days before the vote. "Well, let me think about it. Let me think about it. I want to wait to do it." OK, because there's nobody smoother than Joe, you understand. [laughter]
There's nobody smoother than Joe. And, no. He's much smoother than Schumer actually. [laughter]
Cryin' Chuck, right, right? [laughter] When he wants something, he cries. But I've never seen him cry before, then he cried.
But Joe said, "all right, let me think about it. Let me think about it." And then it came time to vote, and as you know we got the vote. And when that final vote was just coming out, Joe waited about one-tenth of one second. Now it means that Justice Kavanaugh was going to be Justice Kavanaugh, right? [applause]
We had all the votes, so we didn't need Joe's vote. And he pressed that button. I think it was about one-eighth of one second after we had the final vote from Susan Collins, who did us a good job, good job. She did a good job. Really did. [applause]
And it was really a tough period of time, but Joe--I said, "Joe, that doesn't count." It doesn't count. Because if we would have needed the vote it was not going to happen. Does that make any sense? Do you guys understand that? I said, "Joe, do it before we have the vote. I think we've got the vote. Do it before we have the vote." And he said, "let me think. Let me think." And then when I spoke to him later he tried to say, "but I was watching for that one-eighth of a second. I was watching."
But he didn't do it. He didn't do it. And I'll tell you what. Patrick Morrisey, I built up your coal business, and it's going to get a lot better by the way. A lot. As much as you're doing and as good as you're doing, if you look at what's happening, if you look at other countries wanting our coal--and I'll tell you, Vietnam which buys a lot of coal from West Virginia. Do you know that?
Vietnam--I was with the Prime Minister and the president. You know, when you're with--well, like when you're the President of the United States -I went to Vietnam, I went to various places in Asia--but when you're the President here, you're not greeted by a President. You're greeted by a President and the Prime Minister. They have both.
And they said they buy their coal now, because of me, from West Virginia. Well, that's good. [applause]
But I--something I didn't know--I learned a lot since then. That was six months ago--they said it is--they've used coal for a long time. They said it's the finest coal in the world. It's the finest coal in the world. They have a lot of options, but they said it's the finest coal.
I said, "good, if I'm never like around the people, which I expect to be a lot, I will explain that." But you--do you understand? Do the miners know what I'm saying what I say that? The finest--see, somebody like me coming from 5th Avenue. What the hell do I know about that? [laughter]
All I know is I want to put my miners back to work. And I know it works. And I know--and I know for national security reasons--another reason--coal is something we have to have. We have to have. But they said it's the finest coal in the world. I thought that was great. Might as well tell you. Now I've told you, and I don't feel guilty any longer. But I just want to introduce your next United States Senator from West Virginia, Patrick Morrisey. Patrick, come on up. [applause]
PATRICK MORRISSEY: Wow. Isn't this president making West Virginia great again? Thank you, Mr. President, for coming back again. I have to tell you, last night I had a debate with Senator Joe Manchin. And you know what he said? He attacked--he attacked me for supporting President Trump. Well, I will never apologize for defending President Trump, nor will I kneel to alter of Hillary Clinton, Chuck Schumer or Nancy Pelosi. I ask for your vote today. President Trump needs a staunch ally in the U.S. Senate. I will be that ally. But I need your vote. I need your help.
Go online. PatrickMorrisey.com, volunteer, donate, help me defeat the Manchin Schumer ATM machine. Mr. President, thank you for everything you've done for West Virginia. You've been huge in our state, and I look forward to winning and working with this president. Thank you and god bless. [applause]
THE PRESIDENT: What a good job that was. So I said "how's Patrick Morrisey doing?" to some of my friends, two people live here, that they--I said "how's he doing?" They said he is the Energizer Bunny. He is all over the state. You know, sometimes you'll ask that question about candidates--I won't mention names--and how're they doing--oh, they're lazy, they're not working. They're not working. Well they couldn't say that about me in 2016 could they? Could they say it?
Even these people say he's got a lot of energy. This man has a lot of energy. And, just finally, on Joe, I have to say that he was all for Hillary Clinton. He was for Hillary Clinton. She was against coal, she was against the miners, she got no support in this state, and yet Joe was totally in her camp. So that sort of—uh, that sort of tells you--you know, Patrick--as your attorney general, Patrick--
CROWD: Lock her up! Lock her up! Lock her up!
THE PRESIDENT: That's up to Patrick, and he won't do that. Because he's just focused on one thing, becoming your next United States Senator. That's what he's doing. But Patrick's been tough on crime and a fierce defender of the rule of law. And as your Senator, he'll always be the tireless champion for the great people of this great state. He loves this state. And your vote on election day--thank you very much.
[aside to audience member] He's not my type, but I like him anyway, folks. He's a rough looking guy.
But you're going to decide. And--and everybody's watching West Virginia. Because you know, this was a race--when it started, I won by a lot. And--and a lot of people said that this was not one that was going to happen. This was a while ago, and then Patrick came along and did unbelievably in the Primary. He's won statewide a number of times so he's been - he's been through it, but he's won statewide.
He knows your state as well as anybody, I guess, and a lot of people said well, I don't know. It's almost - lets sort of focus on other states, which were also doing very well I have to say.
And then all the sudden we see polls, and it's tied - it's in one case he's up a little bit, another case he's down a little bit, but I mean its right there. Let's assume it's tied. It's going to be whoever gets the people going to the polls on Tuesday.
The whole country is watching the great state of West Virginia. It's going to be a very exciting vote. They asked me--the fake news media--asked me recently, like a couple of days ago, they said "what race are you watching?"
"Oh I'm watching Florida, I'm watching all of 'em right? But I said "watch West Virginia, it's going to be a very inter –" they said "what?" I said "watch West Virginia. The great place. "
So you're going to decide, maybe, which party controls the United States Senate. It's a very powerful vote and a vote for Joe is a vote for Schumer. It's a vote for a majority leader who will be not good. And we don't want to put anti coal - these are anti coal people.
We are - they are anti coal people. And they vote anti coal, and frankly, that's what you're getting. And if that's what you end up with it's your fault, not mine. Remember that, remember that.
Joe will never be with us in terms of the vote. He'll be with us in a lot of ways. We'll go to dinner with him, we'll take him out, we like him. But he's never going to vote for it so I just want you to remember that, ok?
Ok, let's get on with it. [applause] Let's get on with it, let's get on. Patrick, I think if he ever voted against us I'll come back here, I'll say we're going to impeach him - impeach, we will impeach Patrick.
He'll never do it. He loves the people too much. He loves your industry too much. He understands the state too well. It's not going to happen. So if you don't want the Democrat mob like you saw in the Senate, vote for Patrick. Just vote for him.
Finally, we're thrilled to be joined by the next member of Congress, a person who you really do like a lot I have to say. And she's doing well and I thought I'd just call her up for a second.
Third district in West Virginia, Carol Miller. She's done a fantastic job, Carol.  [applause]
CAROL MILLER: It is terrific to be up here sharing a stage with our great President.  [applause]
West Virginia loves President Trump.  [applause]
President Trump, thank you for all of the support you have given my campaign. I can't wait to be in Congress to work with you.
You can always count on me to put America first, fight for coal, grow our economy, protect Social Security and Medicare, embrace our veterans, and strengthen our borders.  [applause]
Mr. President, thank you so much for your commitment to West Virginia. God bless you and God bless our country.  [applause]
THE PRESIDENT: Thank you, Carol. Be careful.
CROWD: USA! USA! USA!
THE PRESIDENT: So just to tell you that Carol is great on jobs, she loves our coal miners. You know that. She'll always support our vets. She's very strong on our vets. We love our vets. Our military and our law enforcement.
And Carol's opponent is a radical left winger named Richard Ojeda. If you don't want to be saying the words "Speaker Pelosi" for the next two years, who will end your coal business, then you better vote for Carol Miller. Thank you, Carol. Thank you. Thank you, Carol. [applause]
She's doing great. If Democrats gain power, they'll also be planning a takeover of American healthcare and that would be socialism, what they want to do. The Democrat plan would obliterate Medicare and eliminate Medicare Advantage for more than 121,000 West Virginia seniors who depend on it. Republicans will protect Medicare for our great seniors who earned it, and by the way, who paid for it. Right? You paid for it. [applause]
And Republicans will always protect patients with pre-existing conditions. We're all doing that.
I listened to President Obama speak today. [booing]
He had a very small crowd, I have to be honest with you. They don't tell you that. You know? They don't tell you that. We had--in Houston we had the biggest thing you've ever seen and they were saying Donald Trump spoke today in front of a few thousand people. Few thousand? We had over 100,000 people that wanted to come. We had 22,000 people in the arena.
We had thousands and thousands of people outside of the arena. Donald Trump spoke today in front of a crowd of a few thousand people. Can you believe it? It's called the fake news, folks.
But I head President Obama speak today. I had to listen--I was in the plane; I had nothing else to do. [laughter]
I heard him talk about telling the truth. He was talking about you have to tell the truth. And yet 28 times he said you can keep your doctor if you like your doctor. You can keep your plan if you like your plan. They were all lies. Over and over again you heard that. Just used it to pass a terrible healthcare plan that we are decimating strike by strike. You saw what happened to the individual mandate, the most unpopular part. And we actually had Obamacare killed except for one Republican vote and any Democrat--one Democrat and we would have had it obliterated and you would have had great healthcare. But we're doing a lot to make it a lot better until we do get rid of it.
Then I heard him talk about the freedom of the press. We have to maintain the press. We have to love those people. Love. Except that nobody was worse to the press than Obama. Nobody. In fact, he even used, as I remember, the Justice Department to go after reporters. Remember? Remember? When he's talkin' about how I should be nice to the fake news. No thank you.
And let's not forget President Obama's false promises about our trade deals. Just one. His administration promised that with South Korea we would create in a trade deal 70,000 jobs. But instead of that, it killed over 100,000 jobs in our country. It was a horrible deal, which by the way, I have totally renegotiated and made it a good deal. [applause]
Lie after lie, broken promise after broken promise, that's what he did. Unlike President Obama, we live by a different motto. It's called promises made, promises kept. [applause]
And we've done more than we ever said we would. We said we were going to do things and we've don a lot more and they will be the first to tell you tell. Democrats' plan--that's right, the magic wand, right? Remember, he said you need a magic wand to produce manufacturing jobs. Well, we just hit almost 600,000. [applause]
Democrats' plan to destroy healthcare, also includes rating Medicare to fund benefits for illegal immigrants. I'm sure you don't mind that. As we speak, Democrats are openly encouraging millions of illegal aliens to violate our laws and to over run our borders.
They want to sign illegal aliens up for free healthcare, free welfare, free education and the right to vote. Otherwise, they don't get much. Illegal immigration cost American tax payers more than $100 billion every single year, more than 20 times the entire state budget of the state of West Virginia.
We need to use our precious resources to help low income Americans who respect our laws, not caravans who break in to our country and break our laws. We don't want that. We don't want that, I'm sorry. [applause]
Now, we don't mind if they come in, but they have to come in legally. [applause]
Democrat immigration policies not only drain our treasury, but they threaten our communities. Nearly 100 percent of heroin in the United States enters though the Sothern border, along with roughly 90 percent of cocaine, the majority of meth, and a substantial portion of the ultra-lethal fentanyl-killing-a-youth drug, fentanyl--the worst.
These drugs kill more than 70,000 Americans every single year. Last year alone, our brave ICE officers who they want to get rid of by the way, these are tough, great, strong patriots. We need strength, arrested more than 127,000. Think of that, 127,000. . .[applause]. . . aliens. . .[applause]. . .with criminal records. Including those charged or convicted of 48,000 assaults, 12,000 sex crimes, and 1,800 homicides. They want to get rid of them, let's get rid of ICE. What are these people thinking? That's why you have to have Patrick Morrisey and Carol. You have to vote them in on Tuesday. You have to do it. [applause]
Yet Democrats want to abolish ICE. They want to turn America in to a giant sanctuary for criminal aliens, drug dealers and MS-13 killers. And by the way, we remove thousands over the last little bit less than two years that I've been here. Thousands and thousands of MS-13 gang members have been thrown the hell out of the country. [applause]
A blue wave equals a crime wave. You don't hear too much about the blue wave anymore though, do you? Remember a couple of months ago--oh, the blue wave, oh the blue wave.
Now they don't talk--you know, I'm not saying they don't squeak it by, maybe because they got of races and I can't go everywhere. Can't go everywhere. But now they're talking about a little [wave gesture]. I mean, you know let's see what happens. Going to be an interesting day at the office. You remember that election two years ago? [applause]
There were a lot of really happy people that night, but there were some that were slightly, uhhh, not too happy. Cry, baby, cry.
A red wave equals jobs and safety. Republicans believe our country should be a sanctuary for law-abiding Americans, not criminal aliens. And Republicans will always stand with the heroes of ICE, border patrol and our great law enforcement. You have great law enforcement right here. . . [applause] . . . in West Virginia. I look at those people--I'm looking at your law enforcement right there. I feel very safe. Thank you, fellas. Thank you. Thank you.  [applause] Thank you, fellas.
And, yes, the wall is happening. It should happen immediately. It's moving beautifully. The design is beautiful, and it's happening. And some communities in California, of all places, they had to miss, San Diego, we're just about finishing it up. But they're demanding the wall. They want the wall. I said, "Let's not give it to them because then they'll put pressure on their government to build it," right?
Now once we build it for them, they'll say, "We shouldn't have a wall." But they already have their wall. That's the way it works, folks.
Border security is also a woman's issue. You know, they keep talking about women. Trump with women. Remember the last election? "Well, Donald Trump won't do very well with women." I did great with women. Look at this [gestures]. I did great.  [applause]
Right? I did great with women. In fact, at the end, when I won, they--they said, "You know, a statistic we got wrong, women really came out for Trump." I said, "Thank you. Thank you."
Same thing now. Because women want safe neighborhoods for their families, right? They want great schools, health care for their children. They want to keep drug dealers, and predators, and traffickers--how about the traffickers? These are human traffickers. These are the worst scum in the world. They want them out of our country.
And we do that. The Democrats don't do that. They want the open borders. Fly right in, folks. Come on in. We don't care who the hell you are, come on in.
Think of it, 300 people. You know, we're getting a lot of heat because, I was saying, there were some bad people in that caravan. Right? So we checked, 300 people. I read them out to you.
That is one more reason why women all across the nation are going to show up and vote Republican on Tuesday. They want security. They want safety.  [applause]
They don't want to have these people coming in. They don't want to have--some of these people are just horrible people. You have to see the crimes they've committed.
This election is about security, and it's about prosperity. For years, you watched as we let foreign countries plunder our wealth and shutter our factories and steal our jobs. And you watched helplessly.
We don't watch helplessly any more. Those days are over. We've added half a million manufacturing jobs--soon to be 600,000--since the election, including 32,000 in just the last month. These were jobs that the previous administration said would never happen. And these are great jobs. These are among our greatest jobs. Manufacturing jobs.
And thanks to our tariffs that we put on steel that was coming in, and they were dumping it all over the place, and destroying our steel companies and our aluminum industry. Roaring back. Steel industry is roaring back.
And for the miners, by the way, in Minnesota and other places, we're grabbing that iron ore and they're makin' steel.
And the hottest industry--one of the hottest industries now, look at what's happened to steel. Steel, like coal, it was going off the cliff. You weren't gonna have a steel industry in this country. And we need it.
You know, certain industries you need, you need steel. You don't have steel--you need it for defense. What are we going to go in case we're--hopefully we'll never have a problem, ok.
I made the military--it'll be stronger than it ever was before, ever, and that's why you won't have a problem. You know, if you don't want to have a problem, make your military much stronger than anybody else ever thought possible. But we need steel.
How about this? We don't have any—see, our steel mills were finished. We were going down--you guys understand that, but we were going down. Now it's so hot, but you need steel.
There are certain industries you have to have--you need it for defense. You don't have it--you have problems. What are we gonna do? We have a conflict, and we call China? We need more steel, please. Please, could we have some more steel? It's ridiculous.
Our steel industry is roaring back and we're putting billions of dollars in our Treasury because we're charging 25 percent tax on those people that dump their steel. They dump is all over the place in order to destroy our steel industry. And the miners are coming back, in this case, it's the iron ore and it's coming out and it's gonna--it's a beautiful thing to see.
I mean we've rebuilt--we really started that about eight months ago, really heavy started it. I wanted to get my feet a little bit wet as President, right.
We started it about eight months ago. It's incredible. The head of U.S. Steel called up, he said "I've never said anything like it--what you've been able to do in such a short period of time."
They're building seven new plants, they're expanding plants. Nucor--Nucor, a big steel company is building brand new plants $750 million, $900 million brand new plants. It's incredible. They haven't been built in years.
Last month, I announced that we're replacing the horrible NAFTA deal, one of the worst--stupidest deals ever made, with an incredible brand new U.S. Mexico Canada agreement. We've taken the toughest ever action to crack down on China's abusive trade practices, and we're doing very nicely. We'll probably make a deal. They want to make a deal.
America is being respected again. We're respected as a country again. We were not respected for a long time.  [applause] We were laughed at just like these stupid immigration laws. The whole world looks at it, they laugh, they said what is this all about? A person comes into our country--another country throws them out. Hey, get out. You're not supposed to be here, you have to go through a process.
You know what we do? We take them--we can't do anything--we bring them through a court proceeding. We take a person who walks onto our property we have a big deal--a court case. They have lawyers, we have lawyers, and what happens is then they go away and is supposed to come back for the trial. Could be two years, three years later and they disappear into the country never to be seen again.
There's no trial, very few people come back--almost none. This is the procedure. This is the law. This is crazy.  [applause]
And the Democrats don't want to change it because they know its chaos and a disaster and they think that's good, But I think it's good for us because I think they overplayed their hand.  [applause]
And how these caravans were formed, you'll have to figure that out. But they overplayed their hand too, assuming they had something to do with it. But it was very well organized, amazingly, in Honduras and the different places very well.
And you know they came up, and I'll tell you people are really energized. They're energized about that, they're energized about the way justice, as you know, Kavanaugh. Justice Kavanaugh was treated, they're energized when they saw the way he was--Brett Kavanaugh--when they saw the way he was treated, they're energized about a lot of things. They want to see us be a great, respected country. And that's what's happening.
We've taken bold action to reduce the price of prescription drugs to help critically ill patients get life saving treatments. We passed something that they've been trying to pass for many, many years. It's called "right to try" where you can try stuff that isn't out yet, but it's looking promising. [applause]
That's such an important thing. They've been trying to pass that for decades. I got it done. After years of surging premiums, the cost of healthcare is finally coming down. We're getting the cost of healthcare down. And last month, I proudly signed the largest bill to fight the opioid epidemic. It's the largest bill in American history. [applause]
We passed "veteran's choice," giving our veterans the right to see a private doctor. [applause]
And the landmark VA Accountability Law to ensure anyone who mistreat our veterans will be held accountable. You are fired. [applause] Get out.
We secured $700 billion and $716 billion to fully rebuild the United States military. And we gave our great warriors, I know you have some of them right here. And I know they don't care about this, they couldn't care less, they don't mind; maybe we'll take it back. We gave them the largest pay raise they've had in more than a decade. OK? [applause] Our military. They deserve it.
At my direction, the Pentagon is now working to create the sixth ranch of the American armed forces, the Space force.
I withdrew the United States from the horrible one sided Iran nuclear deal. And just today, we reimposed all sanctions that were lifted under that horrible deal. [applause] Just today. We now have in place the toughest-ever sanctions on a corrupt regime in Iran.
We've recognized the capital of Israel and opened the American embassy in Jerusalem. [applause] Many, many presidents said they were going to do that, they never got it done. I got it done. I even got it built. I already built the embassy. [applause] $1 billion under budget, right? One billion. [applause] One billion under budget. It was supposed to go as $1.1 billion, we got it done for less than $500,000. That's not bad, that's--it's a long story, I won't bother telling you this. But it's pretty amazing.
And there are many things like that. Together, we have made extraordinary progress. And we're just getting started. But the Democrats want to turn back the clock, and put America in reverse, and give power back to corrupt, selfish ruling class people. And they want to take the power back for themselves.
But we are not going backwards, we're going forwards. I need your vote for a Republican House. [applause] I need your vote for a Republican Senate. [applause] So we can continue this incredible movement, the greatest political movement in the history of our country. And I say it all the time. [applause] And they can't challenge it. [applause]
Greatest movement in the history of our country. You know, Bernie Sanders had a reasonably good movement. But Hilary clipped him. [laughter]
Yes, don't look in that one, he got clipped. But we would've beaten him easy. He would've been easier. Crazy Bernie. [laughter]
We will keep on cutting your taxes, reducing your regulations and raising your incomes. We will protect Medicare and your Social Security. Remember what I said during the debates? Everyone was talking about cutting the Social Security and all--I said we're not touching your Social Security. We haven't touched it in a long time now.
We will defend your right to free speech, religious liberty, and we will continue to confirm judges who will interpret the Constitution as written.  [applause]
We will fully secure the border. We will pass "Kate's law." We will stop sanctuary cities. We will stop catch and release, end visa lottery, end chain migration, and we will keep the criminals, drug dealers, and terrorists the hell out of our country.  [applause]
We will lift millions of our citizens from Welfare to work. Dependence to independence and poverty to prosperity, that's what's going to happen.
For years you watched as your leaders apologized for America. Now you have a President who is standing up for American. We're standing up for your values, we're standing up for West Virginia, and we are proudly standing up for our national anthem. [applause]
To continue our incredible momentum, I need you to get your family, get your friends, get your neighbors, get your coworkers, and go out and vote Republican for all of them and our two stars right here. [applause]
On Tuesday, I need the people of West Virginia to send a message to cryin' Chuck Schumer, Nancy Pelosi, Maxine Waters, and the radical Democrats by voting for Carol Miller and Patrick Morrisey. [applause]
Loyal citizens like you help build this country, and together we are taking back our country, returning power to you--the American people like we said we were going to do. This great state was built by some of the toughest men and strongest woman ever to walk the face of the earth.
These proud West Virginia patriots braved the wilderness and defied the dangers to build a life and a home with their own two hands. They didn't have a lot of money, they didn't have a lot of luxury. But they all had one thing in common. They loved their families, they loved their country, and they loved their God, right? [applause]
They loved their God. They loved their God, is right. These courageous American's did not shed their blood, sweat, and tears, so that we could sit at home while others try to erase their legacy, tear down our history, and destroy our proud American heritage.
For the sake of our freedom, and for the sake our children, we are going to work, we are going to fight, and we are going to win, win, win. [applause]
We will not bend. We will not break. We will never give in. We will never give up. We will never back down. We will never surrender, and we will always fight on to victory, always, always.  [applause]
Because we are Americans and our hearts bleed red, white, and blue.  [applause]
We are one people, one family, and one glorious nation under God. And together we will make America wealthy again. Make America strong again. Make American safe again. And we will make America great again.
Thank you very much, West Virginia. Thank you. Thank you very much.  [applause]
[music: The Rolling Stones, "You Can't Always Get What You Want."]
  