
    Mitt Romney today announced the addition of Congresswoman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart, and former Congressman Lincoln Diaz-Balart as Foreign Policy Advisors and members of his Latin American Working Group.
"I am proud to be working with Ileana, Mario, and Lincoln," said Mitt Romney. "They're conservative leaders who will help me articulate my vision to make America more prosperous at home and respected throughout the world."
Announcing her support, Congresswoman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen said, "The policies of the past three years have put America's standing in the world at risk. It is time we had a president who understands that our country must lead. Mitt Romney believes that America is an exceptional nation and has a strategy to restore our country's greatness. The Romney plan for economic growth will create jobs and opportunities for all, especially for South Floridians, who are passionate in their pursuit of the American dream."
"The world is a more secure place when America is leading boldly," said Congressman Diaz-Balart. "We need a president who won't apologize for America, but will work to secure free markets, economic opportunity, and human rights for all people around the world. Mitt Romney is that leader who will make America stronger and more respected in the world."
"Mitt Romney is a leader who can rebuild our national defense," said former Congressman Diaz-Balart. "Our country faces grave threats throughout the world. We need a leader who will stand up for American interests and work tirelessly for freedom and prosperity everywhere. I know Mitt Romney is ready to face these challenges and I proudly support him."
Background:

Ileana Ros-Lehtinen Was Elected To The U.S. Congress In 1989. She represents Florida's 18th district and is currently the Chairman of the House Foreign Relations Committee. Congresswoman Ros-Lehtinen is the most senior Republican woman in the U.S. House of Representatives.


Mario Diaz-Balart Represents Florida's 21st District in the U.S. Congress. Congressman Diaz-Balart was one of the founding members of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. Before being elected to the U.S. House, he served in both the Florida House of Representatives and the Florida Senate. He was elected in 2002.


Lincoln Diaz-Balart Represented Florida's 21st District In The U.S. Congress From 1993 Until 2011. During his time in Congress, he was the Vice-Chairman of the House Rules Committee. Diaz-Balart is currently the Chairman of the Congressional Hispanic Leadership Institute.

  