
    By virtue of the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution of the United States of America, and in order to create, in accordance with the provisions of the Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App. I), an advisory committee on the establishment of a memorial to the victims of the Holocaust, it is hereby ordered as follows:
1-1. Establishment and Membership.
1-101. There is established the President's Commission on the Holocaust.
1-102. The Commission shall consist of not more than thirty-four members as follows:
(a) The President shall appoint twentyfour members of the Commission and shall designate one of these members to chair the Commission.
(b) The Speaker of the House of Representatives and the President of the Senate are each invited to designate five members of their respective Houses to serve as members of the Commission.
1-2. Functions of the Commission.
1-201. The Commission shall submit a report to the President and the Secretary of the Interior containing its recommendations with respect to the establishment and maintenance of an appropriate memorial to those who perished in the Holocaust.
1-202. The Commission's report shall examine the feasibility of obtaining funds for creation and maintenance of the Memorial through contributions by the American people.
1-203. The Commission shall recommend appropriate ways for the nation to commemorate April 28 and 29, 1979, which the Congress has resolved shall be "Days of Remembrance of Victims of the Holocaust."
1-3. Administrative Provisions.
1-301. To the extent permitted by law, the Secretary of the Interior shall provide all necessary administrative services, facilities, support, and funds necessary for the performance of the Commission's functions.
1-302. Each member of the Commission who is not otherwise employed in the Government may receive compensation for each day such member is engaged in the work of the Commission at a daily rate to be determined by the Secretary of the Interior. Such rate shall not exceed that payable pursuant to the Federal Advisory Committee Act.
1-303. Members of the Commission shall be entitled to travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5702 and 5703) for persons in the Government service employed intermittently.
1-304. The functions of the President under the Federal Advisory Committee Act which are applicable to the Commission, except that of reporting to the Congress, shall be performed by the Secretary of the Interior in accordance with guidelines and procedures prescribed by the Administrator of General Services.
1-4. Final Report and Termination
1-401. The Commission shall submit its final report to the President and the Secretary of the Interior not later than six months from the date of its first meeting.
1-402. The Commission shall terminate not later than thirty days after submitting its final report.
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
November 1, 1978.
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 4:50 p.m., November 1, 1978]
  