
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
November 21
In the afternoon, the President toured the National Folk Museum in Seoul, South Korea.
The President announced his intention to appoint Steven M. Hilton, Frank B. Moore, and William G. Simpson as members of the American Battle Monuments Commission.
The President announced his intention to appoint Jon S. Corzine and Donna Cochran McLarty to the Board of Trustees of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts.
The President announced his intention to designate Maj. Gen. Roland Lajoie, USA (Ret.), as the Co-Chair of the U.S.-Russian Joint Commission on POW/MIA's, effective December 1.
November 22
In the morning, the President attended church services at a U.S. military facility in nearby Yongsan.
In the afternoon, the President visited the Korean Training Center, 25 miles northeast of Seoul, where he reviewed M-2 Bradley fighting vehicles and M1-Abrams tanks with U.S. and South Korean troops. In a brief ceremony, the President promoted Private First Class (E3) Matt E. Prickett to Specialist (E4).
Later, the President led troops in singing "Happy Birthday" to Command Sgt. Maj. Charles Thomas. He then had a "Meals-Ready-to-Eat" lunch with troops in the mess tent.
November 23
In the morning, the President traveled to Guam, arriving in the afternoon.
In the afternoon, the President visited the World War II memorial at the War in the Pacific National Historic Park.
Later, the President returned to Washington, DC, arriving the following evening.
November 25
In the morning, the President and Hillary Clinton went to Camp David, MD, for the Thanksgiving holiday.
The White House announced that the President asked Secretary of Health and Human Services Donna E. Shalala to visit Lebanon as his personal representative.
November 27
The White House announced that the President will travel to Israel, Gaza, and the West Bank on December 12-15.
  