
    President Donald J. Trump today announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key positions in his Administration:
Michael K. Atkinson of Maryland to be Inspector General of the Intelligence Community, Office of the Director of National Intelligence. Mr. Atkinson has served as an Acting Deputy Assistant Attorney General and Senior Counsel to the Assistant Attorney General of the National Security Division of the Department of Justice since 2016. He was previously an Assistant United States Attorney in the U.S. Attorney's Office for the District of Columbia from 2006 to 2012, then Deputy Chief of the Fraud and Public Corruption Section until 2015 and then the Section's Acting Chief from 2015 until 2016. Prior to serving in the U.S. Attorney's Office, Mr. Atkinson was a Trial Attorney in the Fraud Section of the Criminal Division of the Department of Justice from 2002 to 2006. Prior to his public service, Mr. Atkinson was a partner at Winston and Strawn LLP in Washington D.C. Mr. Atkinson received his law degree from Cornell University and his undergraduate degree from Syracuse University.
Linda Capuano of Texas to be an Administrator of the Energy Information Administration, Department of Energy. Ms. Capuano, Ph.D. fellow at Rice University's Baker Institute for Public Policy's Center for Energy Studies, has previously served as vice president of technology at Marathon Oil Corporation; senior vice president of engineering design at Solectron Flextronics; executive vice president and chief technology officer at Advanced Energy Industries; vice president of technology strategy at Honeywell; general manager of wide body aircraft auxiliary product units at AlliedSignal Aerospace; and manager in computer memory product development at IBM. She also co-founded and served as chief financial officer of Conductus, a Silicon Valley start-up. Ms. Capuano currently serves on the board of Peak Reliability and has served on the Board of the California Independent Systems Operator. She is an associate member of the National Academy of Sciences and earned a Ph.D. and M.S. from Stanford University; an M.S. and B.S. from University of Colorado at Boulder; and B.S. from the State University of New York at Stony Brook. 
  