
    This morning I have received the credentials of the Ambassadors of several nations. This is a very important and a very solemn occasion for me whenever I have this opportunity. There is a vivid reminder in this ceremony of the importance of diplomatic relationships.
In looking down this row of representatives, who are quite distinguished in their own right, the differences among us are apparent. We represent countries with different backgrounds, different political systems, different customs, heritage, commitments, goals, opportunities, different levels of income, different alliances with widely varying countries. The only way to bridge the inherent gaps between countries and to maintain peace and proper relationships is through the honoring of the integrity of diplomatic immunity.
It's extremely important that mob violence be controlled and that international terrorism not be permitted to reign. All countries are afflicted at times with mob violence and terrorism. The tragedy of the occurrences in Iran is that in a departure from accepted custom and tradition down through the centuries, in this instance the Government itself has both condoned and encouraged the seizure of an American Embassy and our personnel through mob violence and through terrorism.
The inviolability of embassies is absolutely indispensable in easing tensions and resolving problems that exist among nations and in searching for a common ground of peace and communication among people. This is vital to every country. It's particularly vital to those countries who are small and who are weak and who do not have military power or economic power to exert in defending one's own institutions and one's own fights.
In this principle, the attitude of our own country, our efforts to have our hostages released and to restore the integrity of our diplomatic institutions, is an effort not only for the rights and benefits of the United States but for the rights and benefits of all nations.
Some of the countries represented here, almost all of them, have strongly supported the condemnation of the Iranian Government's actions in seizing our Embassy and holding our hostages captive. We need the help of all countries. The rule of law is only as strong as the efforts of those who are committed to defend it. We are very grateful for the help of those nations who have joined us in this effort.
The harming of innocent people is condemned by every law of mankind and by every law of God, no matter what religious principles or economic or political principles prevail in a country. We are determined to work as peacefully as possible to achieve the release of our hostages as early as we possibly can and, of course, commensurate with that, to defend and to protect the unchanging principles on which our Nation and other nations are founded.
My hope is that all countries represented here and those others who have representatives in our Capital City will join with us in bringing a quick and peaceful resolution to the problem which afflicts not only the United States but all countries.
Again, all of the diplomats here are welcome. I'm very grateful that you've brought your families with you, and we are also honored to have your presence here in Washington. Good luck to all of you.
Thank you very much.
  