
    We will do everything in our power to support and protect our fellow citizens in harm's way.President Donald J. Trump
SUPPORTING CALIFORNIA: President Donald J. Trump is offering full support to California during their response to the wildfires. 

President Trump is traveling to California to meet with individuals affected by the wildfires.
The President recently spoke with Gov. Jerry Brown to offer his full support and the Administration continues to be in close contact with State and local officials.
President Trump issued Major Disaster and Emergency Declarations to provide support for California's response to these wildfires.

The declarations cover up to 75 percent of costs incurred by California for removing debris, conducting emergency activities, providing transitional sheltering, and more.


The Administration has issued three Fire Management Assistance Grants to support partner States that have deployed resources to the region.

These grants reimburse partner States for up to 75 percent of the costs they incur by sending firefighting assets.


The Disaster Declarations and Fire Management Assistance Grants also provide funding to the State of California to help mitigate the impacts of future wildfires.
The Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) has declared the California wildfires a public health emergency.

This declaration gives Medicare and Medicaid beneficiaries and their healthcare providers greater flexibility in meeting emergency health needs created by the wildfires.



DEDICATING RESOURCES: President Trump has deployed Federal resources to help fight the wildfires in California. 

The United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) Forest Service has approximately 590 personnel currently supporting the fight against the Camp and Woolsey fires in California.

This includes over 490 personnel to support efforts to fight the Camp fire and over 90 to fight the Woolsey fire.


USDA's Forest Service is making dozens of air resources available, including 23 helicopters, 8 large air tankers, 5 air attack units, 1 night air attack unit, and 1 night helicopter.
The Department of the Interior has assigned hundreds of personnel to the Camp and Woolsey fires, as well as 2 helicopters and 10 wildland fire engines.
HHS has deployed regional emergency coordinators to support State and local health authorities and the emergency response.

HELPING THE VICTIMS: Federal assistance programs are available to help victims recover from the devastating effects of the wildfires.

President Trump is committed to helping wildfire victims make a full recovery.
USDA, Small Business Administration, and Federal Emergency Management Agency relief programs are available to provide payments, grants, and loans to wildfire victims.

These programs will assist individuals, farmers, and small businesses in their efforts to fully recover from the destruction.


President Trump's Major Disaster Declaration will support efforts to provide wildfire victims with transitional housing.

  