
    For Immediate Release:
Monday, November 30, 2015
MORRISTOWN, NJ - Today, several highly respected members of New Hampshire's law enforcement community launched a coalition to build further support among public safety officials for Christie's Presidential campaign. The coalition will continue to highlight Governor Christie's unique experience enforcing the law as US Attorney and his long history of support for law enforcement officials.
Governor Christie was joined at an event announcing the 'Law Enforcement for Christie' coalition by leaders: Former US Attorney Tom Colantuono, Merrimack County Sheriff Scott Hilliard, Former Executive Councilor and Merrimack County Prosecutor Dan St. Hilaire, and Merrimack County Attorney Scott Murray.
Hilliard commented, "Governor Christie understands that 'justice' is more than a word, but a way of life in America. He will always stand up and defend our officers, who put their lives on the line to protect our communities. I am proud to support a governor who has a solid record working with the men and women on the front lines of public safety to reduce crime, defend law and order, and ensure equal justice under the law."
Colantuono added, "I served alongside Chris Christie as U.S. Attorney and saw firsthand his commitment to defending our homeland in the wake of the September 11, 2001 attacks. Governor Christie worked with the Department of Justice, the Department of Homeland Security, and the intelligence community to prosecute terrorists who were attempting to attack our nation. In these dangerous times, we need a president who understands the threats we face in the ongoing war on terror."
Leadership for 'Law Enforcement for Christie' includes:

Co-Chair Tom Colantuono, former U.S. Attorney for District of New Hampshire
Co-Chair Scott Hilliard, Merrimack County Sheriff
Steering Committee Member Dan St. Hilaire, former Executive Councilor & Merrimack County Attorney
Steering Committee Member Scott Murray, Merrimack County Attorney
Steering Committee Member Scott Young, Strafford Police Chief

  