
    
Marco's trip to Iowa this past weekend saw Iowans abuzz with growing excitement as the campaign made four stops in the Hawkeye State.

He drew large crowds as he spoke about our rising national debt, ObamaCare, the Iran deal, and his plan for a New American Century.
Rubio: GOP leadership has "forced down our throat" the budget deal" — and Iowa crowd here murmurs in agreement. pic.twitter.com/KEfmAPEW0x
— Hallie Jackson (@HallieJackson) October 31, 2015

During the first stop, in Sioux City, Marco pointed out the challenges facing our country, starting with the skyrocketing national debt.
The Des Moines Register reports:
"We must turn the page," he told a crowd here. "For 30 years, for 20 years at least, we've struggled to solve any major issue in America."
"For those who say there's no bipartisanship in Washington, it's not true. There is. This debt is bipartisan debt, rung up by both parties," Rubio said in Iowa. "It's irresponsible and it's reckless. And still, nothing changes."

Florida senator @MarcoRubio speaks to a crowd of 200 in Mason City IA, and throws in a joke about wearing a sweater pic.twitter.com/twWoOy45qz
— Mackenzie Ryan (@Mackenzie_Ryan) October 31, 2015

Then it was off off to Mason City, where Marco laid out the priorities he'd focus on as president.
The Mason City Globe reports:
Saying "the time has come to turn the page," Sen. Marco Rubio set several priorities Saturday that he would have as president. Among them are elimination of the Affordable Care Act, rejection of the nuclear agreement with Iran.
ObamaCare: Rubio said he would abolish "Obamacare" and establish a program that empowers Americans to make their own health care choices from companies nationwide, allowing competition to reduce prices. "The people should be making these choices," not the government," he said.
Iran: Rubio said the most important role of the federal government is to keep the American people safe — and the government has failed to do that in recent years. "We're about to give Iran $150 billion. They won't use it to build highways," he said. "They'll use it to build nuclear weapons. On my first day in office I will cancel that  deal. "Radical Islams are not going away," he warned. "Someday they will be coming after us. We must fight them. What's the alternative? We either defeat them or they defeat us."
Education: On education, he said there has been an unfair stigma on vocational training when it should be promoted. . . . He said the problem with education at four-year colleges and universities is the high cost and that students are borrowing money to pay for educations that aren't leading to good-paying jobs.

Sen. @joniernst stopped by @marcorubio tent @ IA GOP's "Growth & Opportunity Party" to say hi, welcome him to Iowa. pic.twitter.com/HqhpzzSSEL
— Alex Burgos (@BurgosGOP) October 31, 2015

The weekend concluded with a stop at the Republican Party of Iowa's first ever "Growth and Opportunity Party," at the Iowa State Fairgrounds in West Des Moines, where Marco spoke to a crowd of over 2,000 Iowans.
One young voter called Marco a "nice contrast" to Hillary Clinton, the Des Moines Register reports:
Karsen Kredit, 19 of Sioux Center, agreed, saying Rubio makes for a good contrast to Democratic front-runner Hillary Clinton. "She grew up with a silver spoon," Kredit said.

Make sure you catch Marco on his next trip. He'll be back in Iowa soon!
  