
    "For almost 60 years, our alliance has endured as a cornerstone of sovereignty, security, and prosperity for our nations, this region, and indeed the world." – President Donald J. Trump
STRENGTHEN INTERNATIONAL RESOLVE TO DENUCLEARIZE NORTH KOREA: President Donald J. Trump strengthened international resolve to address the security challenges presented by North Korea.

The two leaders renewed their commitment to address unprecedented security challenges from North Korea.
The President underscored his commitment to enhancing Japan's defense capabilities as part of our commitments to the Alliance and to making available advanced defensive equipment.
The President pledged to protect the people of Japan, as emphasized in remarks to American and Japanese troops at Yokota Airbase and at his press conference with Prime Minister Shinzo Abe.
The President and the First Lady met with families of Japanese nationals abducted by the North Korean regime.

PROMOTE A FREE AND OPEN INDO-PACIFIC REGION: President Trump advanced high-standard rules so the Indo-Pacific region can continue to develop and prosper.

The United States and Japan reaffirmed their mutual commitment to promoting prosperity and development of the Indo-Pacific region by fostering a secure environment and developing high-standard rules.
On November 7, 2017, the Overseas Private Investment Corporation will sign Memoranda of Understanding with Japanese partners to offer high-quality United States-Japan infrastructure investment alternatives in the Indo-Pacific region.
The United States and Japan launched the Japan-United States Strategic Energy Partnership to promote universal access to affordable and reliable energy in Southeast Asia, South Asia, and Sub-Saharan Africa.
On November 6, 2017, the U.S. Trade and Development Agency (USTDA) and Japan's Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry (METI) signed a Memorandum of Cooperation to help bring high-quality energy infrastructure solutions to the Indo-Pacific region.

ADVANCE AMERICA'S PROSPERITY: President Trump promoted American prosperity and trade, including new investments that will employ thousands of American workers.

President Trump and Prime Minister Abe reaffirmed their commitment to fostering strong domestic, demand-driven growth and fair trade practices that result in more balanced trade. 
The President delivered clear public messages on the need for balanced trade and greater market access commitments from Japan.
Toyota and Mazda announced a $1.6 billion investment in a new manufacturing plant in the United States that will create an estimated 4,000 jobs. 
Japan committed to taking new trade actions in the areas of motor vehicles and life sciences innovation.
The two leaders affirmed their commitment to continuing space cooperation at the Second International Space Exploration Forum and at the next Comprehensive Space Dialogue. 
The two leaders committed to enhancing cyber cooperation to counter threats from increasingly harmful and disruptive activities in cyberspace.

  