
    Good morning. This week, the voters of America set the direction of our Nation for the next 4 years. I am honored by the support of my fellow citizens. I commend Senator John Kerry for a spirited campaign.
Now the election is behind us, and our country is ready to move forward. Our Nation is fighting a continuing war on terror, and every American has a stake in the outcome. Republicans and Democrats and independents love our country, and together, we will protect the American people. We will persevere until the enemy is defeated and our Nation is safe from danger. Every civilized country also has a stake in the outcome of this war. Whatever our past disagreements, we share a common enemy and common duties to confront disease and hunger and poverty in troubled regions of our world.
I will continue reaching out to friends and allies, including our partners in NATO and the European Union, to promote development and progress, to defeat the terrorists, and to encourage freedom and democracy as the alternatives to tyranny and terror.
Here at home, we have serious responsibilities and historic opportunities. To accelerate the momentum of this economy and to keep creating jobs, we must take practical measures to help the small-business sector. We must confront the junk and frivolous lawsuits that are driving up the cost of health care and hurting doctors and patients. We must continue to work on education reform to bring high standards and accountability, not just to elementary schools but to the high schools as well. We must reform our complicated and outdated Tax Code to get rid of needless paperwork and make our economy more competitive in the world. And we must show our leadership by strengthening the Social Security system for our children and grandchildren. This is more than a problem to be solved; it is an opportunity to help millions of our fellow citizens find the security and independence of ownership.
Reaching these goals will require the broad support of Americans. To make this Nation stronger and better, I will need the support of Republicans and Democrats and independents, and I will work to earn it. I will do all I can do to deserve your trust.
A new term is a new opportunity to reach out to the whole Nation. We have one country, one Constitution, and one future that binds us. And when we come together and work together, there is no limit to the greatness of America.
In the election of 2004, large issues were set before the country and discussed every day of the campaign. Now Americans are expecting bipartisan effort and results. My administration will work with both parties in Congress to achieve those results and to meet the responsibility we share.
With the campaign over, the United States of America goes forward with confidence and faith. I see a great day coming for our country, and I'm eager for the work ahead.
Thank you for listening.
  