
    A Steadfast and Enduring Commitment: Vice President Pence visited Japan, Singapore, Australia, and Papua New Guinea this week to reaffirm President Trump's commitment to a free and open Indo-Pacific in which all nations are sovereign, strong, and prosperous.
For two centuries, American security and prosperity have depended upon free and open access to the Indo-Pacific region, allowing for two-way investment and trade that today support millions of American jobs — numbers that will grow as the Administration counteracts state-sponsored theft of intellectual property and other market distortions that fuel trade imbalances.
The Indo-Pacific encompasses more than half the Earth's surface, half the human family, and two-thirds of global trade. Its economic and strategic significance to Americans grows by the day.
Enhancing Shared Prosperity:  America has made foreign direct investments of $1.4 trillion in the Indo-Pacific region—more than Chinese, Japanese, and South Korean investments combined. President Trump's ‘America First' economic agenda — including deregulation, tax cuts and tax reform — also mean America is attracting more investment from the Indo-Pacific than ever before. Vice President Pence announced new initiatives that will advance fair and reciprocal trade and mobilize even greater private investment.

The BUILD Act, which President Trump signed in October, doubles U.S. development finance capacity to $60 billion. This week the U.S., Japan and Australia signed a trilateral Memorandum of Understanding on development finance cooperation in the Indo-Pacific.
Having updated the Korea-U.S. Free Trade Agreement, the Trump Administration intends to negotiate a U.S.-Japan Trade Agreement.
Through the Japan-U.S. Strategic Energy Partnership, Japan will align its $10 billion regional energy investment target with the Trump Administration's Asia EDGE initiative.
The new U.S.-ASEAN Smart Cities Partnership will help municipal governments advance the digital transformation of urban systems.
The U.S.-SEGA program will build capacity in APEC economies to adopt high-standard, comprehensive trade and investment policies.

Ensuring a Peaceful and Secure Regional Order: Vice President Pence deepened cooperation with allies and partners on North Korean denuclearization, freedom of navigation in the East and South China Seas, and combatting terrorism and violent extremism.

The United States and Japan announced delivery of ten F-35As, valued at $1.38 billion, under our Foreign Military Sales program, with six more to be delivered in 2019.
The United States is providing more than half a billion dollars in security assistance to Indo-Pacific nations this year – more than double the previous year.
The United States is expanding maritime security cooperation in the Indian Ocean region and the Pacific Islands.

Championing Good Governance and Civil Society:  Vice President Pence announced the Indo-Pacific Transparency Initiative to help countries attract greater private investment, combat corruption, and secure nations' autonomy from foreign coercion.

The United States promotes sound, just, and responsive governance through efforts to counter corruption, while encouraging strong civil society and honest business practices.
In conjunction with more than $400 million, the Indo-Pacific Transparency Initiative will cooperate with allies, partners, and regional institutions, including ASEAN and APEC, to advance these shared principles.

  