
    WASHINGTON -- Today, Vice President-elect Joe Biden announced the following key Vice Presidential staff: Michael (Mike) C. Donilon, Terrell P. McSweeny, and Evan M. Ryan.
Mike Donilon will serve as Counselor to the Vice President; Terrell McSweeny will serve as Domestic Policy Advisor to the Vice President; and Evan Ryan will serve as Assistant to the Vice President for Intergovernmental Affairs and Public Liaison.
"These talented individuals build on the professional, dedicated and diverse team being assembled to lead the Obama-Biden Administration," said Vice President-elect Joe Biden. "Mike Donilon has been one of my closest advisors for more than 25 years, and is one of the most astute counselors in national affairs I have ever met -- he provided advice that was invaluable on the Obama-Biden campaign in 2008. Terrell McSweeny is an expert on domestic policy and has established herself as someone highly-regarded and experienced in national policy matters. Evan Ryan has a unique blend of White House management experience and public outreach skills, which will make her an indispensable asset to the Obama-Biden Administration.
Mike Donilon, Counselor to the Vice President
Mike Donilon has been an advisor and consultant to Vice President-elect Biden since 1981. He was an instrumental part of the Vice President-elect's debate preparation team and was his traveling advisor during the general election campaign. Donilon has been part of some of the most remarkable breakthrough campaigns in the country, including Governor Douglas Wilder's historic victory in Virginia in 1989, Senator Harris Wofford's upset victory over Dick Thornburgh in 1991, and President Bill Clinton's win in 1992.
He has provided strategic advice and led the creative efforts in a number of statewide campaigns, including those for Governor Jon Corzine (D-NJ), Senator Bill Nelson (D-FL), Senator Jack Reed (D-RI), Senator Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI), and former Senator Mark Dayton (D-MN). In 2006 and 2008, Donilon created the advertising for the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee's independent expenditure campaigns for Senator Claire McCaskill (D-MO), Senator Robert Menendez (D-NJ), Senator Mark Udall (D-CO), and Senator Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH). Donilon received both an A.B. and a J.D. from Georgetown University.
Terrell McSweeny, Domestic Policy Advisor to the Vice President
Terrell McSweeny has advised three Presidential candidates on domestic policy and related matters. In 2008, she worked for Vice President-elect Biden in various capacities, serving as his Issues Director during the general election campaign and his Deputy Chief of Staff and Policy Director in the U.S. Senate -- where she managed domestic and economic policy development and legislative initiatives -- as well as his principal domestic policy advisor during his own Presidential campaign. In 2004, McSweeny served as the Deputy Policy Director for the Wes Clark for President campaign in Little Rock, Arkansas; earlier, in 2000, she worked in the Gore for President campaign in Nashville, Tennessee. Her government service includes her work as Counsel to Senator Biden, where she worked on Judiciary Committee issues such as women's rights, domestic violence, judicial nominations, immigration and civil rights. In addition to her policy work in Presidential campaigns, McSweeny was also an attorney at O'Melveny & Myers LLP. McSweeny is a graduate of Harvard University and Georgetown University Law Center.
Evan Ryan, Assistant to the Vice President for Intergovernmental Affairs and Public Liaison
Evan Ryan possesses a unique blend of White House management, international outreach, and policy expertise. She was an advisor to the Vice President-elect during the general election campaign and served as his Deputy Campaign Manager during the primary cycle. Ryan served on the White House staff from 1994-2000, working for First Lady Hillary Rodham Clinton as Special Assistant to the First Lady's Chief of Staff and then as Deputy Director of Scheduling. In the latter capacity, Ryan traveled to 22 countries to prepare Mrs. Clinton's foreign trips, representing the First Lady's office with senior governmental officials, U.S. embassy personnel, and non-governmental leaders. In 2000, Ryan was hired as Director of Scheduling for the Hillary 2000 U.S. Senate campaign in New York. In 2003-2004, during the Presidential primary season, Ryan was Deputy Communications Director for John Kerry's campaign. In 2005, Ryan was Deputy Chair for the Governance track of the Clinton Global Initiative in New York. Ryan is a member of the Executive Committee of the conflict-management NGO PeacePlayers International, and has served as a consultant for the Education Partnership for Children of Conflict, an NGO co-founded by Angelina Jolie and Gene Sperling. She is also a Term Member of the Council on Foreign Relations. Ryan received a B.A. in political science from Boston College and a Masters in International Public Policy from Johns Hopkins University's School of Advanced International Studies.
  