
    The Clinton campaign today announced the addition of 44 members to its national LGBT Americans for Hillary Steering Committee. The announcement comes just a day after Clinton successfully hosted a fundraiser with 250 members of the LGBT community in Washington, DC as well as a day after the endorsement of openly gay Congressman Barney Frank.
"I am honored to have the support of these leaders in the LGBT community," Clinton said. "Together, we can end the divisive politics of the current administration and renew the promise of fairness and equality for all Americans."
The list of new supporters reflects the diversity of the LGBT community itself and includes Army veteran Eric Alva, the first marine to be injured during the war in Iraq; comedian Kate Clinton; transgender activists, Dana Beyer and Donna Rose; Robert Hanson, President of Levi Strauss of America; Alexander Robinson, CEO of the National Black Justice Coalition and Earl Fowlkes, President and CEO, International Federation of Black Prides, Inc. Several elected officials are also joining the national Steering Committee, including Delegate Adam Ebbin of Virginia, State Rep. Steve Howard of Vermont, State Senator Jolie Justus of Missouri, State Rep. Sarah Peake of Massachusetts, State Rep. David Pierce of New Hampshire, State Rep. Patricia Todd of Alabama, and State Rep. Kathy Webb of Arkansas. Clinton now has the public support of twenty members of the Board of the National Stonewall Democrats, including Board Co-chairs, Steve Driscoll and Laurie McBride.
Hillary has been a longtime friend of the gay community. She fought against the Federal Marriage Amendment (FMA) both times and has worked on legislation that would promote equality for LGBT Americans. She worked to pass the Pension Protection Act, which allows same sex partners to transfer their pensions to each other and is an original co-sponsor of the Employment Non-Discrimination Act and the Matthew Shepard Hate Crimes Prevention Act. Hillary is also an original co-sponsor of the Domestic Partnership Benefits and Obligation Act, which would grant the same benefits, including health insurance, to domestic partners of federal employees that are currently offered to only employees' legal spouses. She has been a champion of the Early Treatment for HIV Act, which expands access to vital treatment options for low-income individuals living with HIV and fought to fully fund the Ryan White CARE Act.
As President, Hillary will work to make sure that gay and lesbian couples in committed relationships have the same rights and responsibilities as all Americans. She will also work to end discrimination in adoption laws, sign hate crimes legislation and ENDA into law, and put an end to the failed policy of Don't Ask, Don't Tell.
New Committee Members Are*:


Hon. Adam Ebbin, Delegate, Virginia House of Delegates
Hon. Steve Howard, Vermont State Representative
Hon. Jolie Justus, Missouri State Senator
Hon. Sarah Peake, Massachusetts State Representative
Hon. David Pierce, New Hampshire State Representative
Hon. Patricia Todd, Alabama State Representative
Hon. Kathy Webb, Arkansas State Representative
Mario Acosta-Velez, National Board of Stonewall Democrats
Michael Agins, principal, Agins and Associates
Eric, Alva, veteran, first marine injured in Iraq
Dana Beyer, Human Rights Campaign Board of Governors, Transgender activist
Darren Bowie, DC activist; Vice President, Gertrude Stein Democratic Club
Barbara Casbar-Siperstein, National Board of Stonewall Democrats, Transgender activist
Kate Clinton, comedian
Catherine, Dodd, a former Department of Health & Human Services regional director
Clay Doherty, former Executive Director, Gay and Lesbian Leadership Council, Democratic National Committee; Board Member, Equality California PAC
Stephen Driscoll, Co-chair, National Board of Stonewall Democrats
Earl Fowlkes, President and CEO, International Federation of Black Prides, Inc.
Jesse Garcia, National Board of Stonewall Democrats
John Gile, Executive Director, Project Angel Food
Doug Haloftis, partner, Gardere, Wynne, Sewell LLP
Robert Hanson, President, Levi Strauss of America; Board Member, Hendrick Martin Foundation
Jo Hoenninger, former Co-chair, Servicemembers Legal Defense Network
Ray Hom, Board of Governors, Human Rights Campaign
Rick Ingram, President, Stonewall Democrats of Illinois
Leslie Katz, former San Francisco City Supervisor; past chair, San Francisco Democratic Party
Jeffrey Marburg-Goodman, former chief procurement counsel, U.S. Agency for International Development.
Laurie McBride, Co-chair, National Board of Stonewall Democrats
Chance Mitchell, Co-founder and CEO, National Gay and Lesbian Chamber of Commerce
Justin Nelson, Co-founder and CEO, National Gay and Lesbian Chamber of Commerce
Peter Pappas, Board of Governors, Human Rights Campaign
Dana Perlman, Human Rights Campaign Board of Directors, Public Policy Chair
Craig Roberts, National Board of Stonewall Democrats
H. Alexander Robinson, CEO, National Black Justice Coalition
Donna Rose, Transgender activist; Board member, GLAAD; Board member National Gay and Lesbian Chamber of Commerce
Scott Safier, National Board of Stonewall Democrats
Marc Solomon, Campaign Director, MassEquality
Laura Spanjian, San Francisco activist
Paul Tran, National Board of Stonewall Democrats
Steve VanHook, National Board of Stonewall Democrats
Ben Waldman, former Vice President of Microsoft
Jon Winkleman, National Board of Stonewall Democrats
Lawrence Yanovitch, International Development Expert
Herb Zeman, National Board of Stonewall Democrats

* Members of LGBT AMERICANS FOR HILLARY have endorsed Hillary Clinton for President in their individual capacity. The names of past or present affiliations are included to assist in identifying the individuals listed and do not indicate any endorsement by that group or organization.
  