
    (New York, NY) – President-elect Donald J. Trump's selection of decorated United States Army Lieutenant General and former director of the Defense Intelligence Agency Gen. Mike Flynn for National Security Advisor is receiving wide praise.
NBC News: "Flynn is 'the best intelligence officer of his generation,' [Army Gen. Barry] McCaffrey said. 'He's a good guy. He's objective. He's tough.'" (NBCNews.com, 11/18/16)
The Observer: "If you actually get to know Mike you will find an unapologetically patriotic American that lives a life that was shaped by two tough parents, even tougher siblings, hard sergeants, and amazing leaders," said Jason Criss Howk. (The Observer, 11/18/16)
Business Insider: "Flynn, who turns 58 next month, had built a reputation as an astute intelligence professional and straight talker when he became the director of the Defense Intelligence Agency in 2012." (Business Insider, 11/18/16)
USA Today: "He developed a reputation as being an innovative thinker who sometimes fought against an entrenched military bureaucracy." (USA Today, 11/18/16)
BBC News:  "Mike Flynn is a straight shooter. And that's exactly what we need in terms of senior leaders giving advice to the national leadership," said David Deptula, a retired air force lieutenant general. (BBC, 11/18/16)
CBS News: "Michael Flynn, the former Army lieutenant general...rose through the ranks of military intelligence on the strength of his reputation as an astute professional and an unconventional thinker." (CBS, 11/18/16)
Times Leader: "[Rep.] Barletta also said Gen. Flynn will bring the experience of a career military man to the role of National Security Advisor. 'He's also served as director of the Defense Intelligence Agency and as the assistant director of National Intelligence...If you were drawing up a candidate for such an important position, you would describe General Flynn.'" (Times Leader, 11/18/16)
NPR: "Within military circles, Flynn was a highly respected— though at times controversial — career intelligence officer. ...Flynn was never shy about ruffling feathers." (NPR, 11/18/16)
ABC News: "Flynn brings to the job nearly 30 years of military experience. He was a major surrogate and adviser on national security issues throughout Trump's campaign." (ABC News, 11/18/16)
Times of Israel: "Israel welcomed US President-elect Donald Trump's new round of appointments to top administration positions, a source in Jerusalem said Saturday...The source specifically hailed both Rep. Mike Pompeo, the incoming CIA chief, and new national security adviser Gen. Michael Flynn as supporters of Israeli policy..." (Times of Israel, 11/19/16)
  