
    We must strive to build communities that truly serve, support, and protect our veterans from the very first moment they return to civilian life. --President Donald J. Trump
SERVING, SUPPORTING, AND PROTECTING OUR VETERANS: President Donald J. Trump has made it a priority to support the American veterans who courageously protected our country.

President Trump has worked tirelessly to ensure that our American heroes have the care and support they have earned when they leave the service.
In 2018, President Trump signed the largest funding bill for the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) in history, securing $86.5 billion for the VA.
President Trump signed the VA Accountability and Whistleblower Protection Act, making it easier to identify problems within the VA and improve the quality of service for veterans.
In an effort to expedite the appeals process for veterans, President Trump signed the Veterans Appeals Improvement and Modernization Act.
President Trump created a 24/7 White House VA Hotline to ensure that our veterans receive immediate attention and aid.

PROVIDING QUALITY CARE: President Trump continues working tirelessly to improve healthcare quality for veterans and end the tragedy of veteran suicide. 

The President signed the VA MISSION Act, a monumental reform of the VA system that will help provide our veterans with the care and support they deserve.

This legislation greatly expands veteran's ability to choose the healthcare that best meets their individual needs.
Under the VA Mission Act, Veterans will gain access to care right in their own communities.


President Trump signed an Executive Order on the "President's Roadmap to Empower Veterans and End a National Tragedy of Suicide" (PREVENTS Initiative).

The order calls on members of the Federal government and the private sector to join efforts in improving veterans' quality of life and identifying veterans in need.


Last year, President Trump signed a funding bill that secures $8.6 billion for veterans' mental health services and $400 million for opioid use prevention.

HONORING OUR HEROES AT HOME: President Trump is ensuring that our veterans receive the resources they need to return to civilian life with dignity and security. 

President Trump is making sure that veterans receive the educational benefits they deserve.
In 2017, the President signed the "Forever GI Bill," providing veterans access to their veteran educational benefits at any point during their lifetime.
President Trump signed a presidential memorandum that makes it easier for totally and permanently disabled veterans to have their Federal student debt eliminated.
The Administration has taken action to help boost veterans' employment.

Under the Trump Administration, veteran employment reached the lowest level ever recorded.


President Trump issued an Executive Order to enhance opportunities for military spouses to find employment within the Federal government.
President Trump signed legislation to ensure that veteran benefits will receive the same cost of living adjustment increase as social security.

  