
    On November 21, 2019, President Donald J. Trump will award the National Medal of Arts and National Humanities Medal to the following individuals and organizations:
National Medal of Arts:
Alison Krauss for making extraordinary contributions to American music. Blending bluegrass, folk, gospel, and country into a unique style, she has entertained and enriched the souls of millions.
Sharon Percy Rockefeller for being a renowned champion of the arts, a generous supporter of charity, and a pioneer of new ideas and approaches in the field of public policy.
The Musicians of the United States Military for personifying excellence in music and service to country. From concert halls to war zones, these extraordinary patriots have inspired and uplifted their fellow Americans over generations with their incredible courage and breathtaking musical talent.
Jon Voight for his exceptional capacity as an actor to portray deeply complex characters. Captivating audiences, he has given us insights into the richness of the human mind and heart.
National Humanities Medal:
The Claremont Institute for championing the Nation's founding principles and enriching American minds. Its publications and public events have deepened our understanding and appreciation of American freedom, democracy, justice, and rule of law.
Teresa Lozano Long for supporting the arts and improving educational opportunities. Through scholarships and philanthropy, she has helped America's children and young adults learn the skills they need to succeed.
Patrick J. O'Connell for being one of the greatest chefs of our time. Through the Inn at Little Washington, he has raised the culinary arts to new heights of excellence by embracing regional flavors and championing local farmers.
James Patterson for being one of the most successful American authors of our time. His prodigious imagination has resulted in fascinating works that have been enjoyed by millions and his championship of literacy in America has inspired many to realize their potential.
  