
    Governor Askew, President Sadat:
Let me express how deeply Mrs. Ford and I appreciate the opportunity of being here in your great State, Governor. And may I say that the warm welcome that the people of Florida, and particularly this area, have given to President and Mrs. Sadat is a true reflection of the character and the depth and the feelings of the people of Florida for one of our most distinguished guests.
I am grateful for your part in making this evening possible, because it is highly significant that our distinguished guest has come to your State at the conclusion of a very great trip to our country and to many parts of it.
Last Monday night it was my pleasure to host the distinguished President of Egypt and to indicate to him on that occasion how strongly the American people felt that his statesmanship and leadership had produced a tremendous result, a milestone in the necessary steps toward a broad and permanent and just peace in the Middle East.
President Sadat and Mrs. Sadat have been warmly welcomed throughout our country in the 4 or 5 days that they have visited many parts of the United States. I indicated to President Sadat on Monday when he was in Washington that the American people were deeply grateful, most appreciative of his courage, his wisdom, his broad view, and his dedication to what was needed and necessary in the Middle East.
And I think, as you have traveled, President Sadat, in many parts of our country--New York, Chicago, Houston, and now in this great State of Florida-you have found in the American people a great diversity, but a great strength, and I am convinced that your visit here has been in the best interests of not only the Middle East but the world itself.
It has been a great and wonderful personal experience for me to know the President and to work with him over the past many months with the results that have been achieved. And I commend him for his continuing courage to move ahead in a momentum that is necessary and essential if we are to achieve the final peace, just and equitable to all, for the benefit of that area but primarily for the benefit of the world.
And so, may I ask that all of the guests of Governor Askew join with me in a toast to the President of Egypt and Mrs. Sadat.
  