
    The Peace Corps supports the U.S.-Indonesia Comprehensive Partnership by expanding people-to-people exchanges, cultural activities, and educational partnerships.
Since returning to Indonesia in January 2010, Peace Corps Indonesia has rapidly grown into a program of 43 Volunteers teaching English at schools and madrasahs throughout East Java. Volunteers co-teach 10th and 11th grade classes with Indonesian counterparts, facilitate student activities and clubs, and contribute to teacher clubs and workshops. Throughout their two years of service, Volunteers live with Indonesian host families, furthering their integration into the community and supporting the goal of greater inter-cultural dialogue.
The Peace Corps, together with the Indonesian government, is planning to expand both the number of Volunteers in Indonesia as well as the provinces in which they serve. By June 2012 the number of English Education Volunteers will increase to 70, with plans to place Volunteers in East Java and beyond starting in 2013. Potential provinces include South Sulawesi, West Java, and Banten. The Peace Corps and the Indonesian government are also working together to develop a second program sector in an area such as in community health, environment, or youth and community development.
Peace Corps Indonesia Background
Peace Corps initiated its first program in Indonesia in 1963 and initially sent a total of 46 Volunteers to work in sports coaching and physical education. The program closed in 1965 with the mutual consent of the two governments against the backdrop of political unrest and concern for the safety and security of the Volunteers.
In October 2006, the Indonesian government invited Peace Corps to send an assessment team to consider the feasibility of re-establishing a Peace Corps program. A comprehensive assessment was completed in February 2007, followed by an updated safety and security assessment. Peace Corps completed negotiations with the Indonesian government in November 2009 and a formal Memorandum of Understanding was signed on December 11, 2009. The Peace Corps negotiated and signed Implementing Arrangements with the Ministry of Religious Affairs and Ministry of Education and Culture on June 15, 2011.
An inter-agency Steering Committee, which includes the National Development Planning Agency (BAPPENAS), the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Education and Culture, the Ministry of Religious Affairs, the State Secretariat and others, works closely with Peace Corps on administration of the program.
  