
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Romney Press Shop (857) 288-6390
Boston, MA – Today, Rhode Island State Representative Joseph A. Trillo announced his endorsement of Governor Mitt Romney for President. State Representative Trillo represents the 24th District in the Rhode Island House of Representatives. He joins previously-announced Rhode Island Governor Don Carcieri in endorsing Governor Romney.
"State Representative Trillo understands the importance of having a strong economy, a strong military, and strong families. He has worked to keep taxes low, cut government spending, create jobs, and ensure that the people of Rhode Island are safe. I look forward to working with him to bring that same type of leadership to Washington," said Governor Romney.
"Governor Romney is the one candidate who can bring change to Washington," said State Representative Trillo. "He has the experience, vision and values to lead our nation. His years in the private sector have given him the background we need in Washington to strengthen the economy, cut government spending, and keep taxes low. His leadership will allow our nation to remain a leader in the global market."
Background On State Representative Joseph A. Trillo:
Joseph A. Trillo Has Represented The 24th District In Rhode Island's House Of Representatives Since 2000. As a State Representative, he is the past Chairman of the Joint Committee on Capitol Security and is a board member of the Rhode Island Emergency Management Commission. He also is the co-chairman of the House Commission on Fire safety. He serves on the House Corporations committee and has also served on the Rhode Island Economic Development Commission. Representative Trillo is also the President of an alarm company and is a real estate investor. He is a former President of the Rhode Island Alarm Association, Warwick Chamber of Commerce, National Association of Musical Merchants, and Cranston Jaycees. He currently resides with his wife Marilyn Cocozza Trillo in Warwick.
  