
    The following listing includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the White House Press Office and not included elsewhere in this issue.
November 23
The President returned to the White House from Camp David, Md.
November 24
The President met at the White House with:
—Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs;
—Frank B. Moore, Assistant to the President for Congressional Liaison;
—Representative Tim Lee Carter of Kentucky.
In a ceremony in the Oval Office, the President received diplomatic credentials from Ambassadors Stoyan Iliev Zhulev of Bulgaria, Daw San Myint of Burma, K. R. Narayanan of India, Abdallah Ould Daddab of Mauritania, and Rim Delia Casco Montenegro of Nicaragua.
The President transmitted to the Congress the fiscal year 1979 annual report of ACTION.
The White House announced that the President has designated the Secretary of Energy as Chairman and the Secretary of the Treasury as Vice Chairman of the Advisory Committee to the Board of Directors of the United States Synthetic Fuels Corporation.
The President announced that he will nominate Fernando E. Rondon, of Alexandria, Va., now Ambassador to the Democratic Republic of Madagascar, to serve concurrently as Ambassador to the Federal and Islamic Republic of Comoros. Rondon has been Ambassador to Madagascar since earlier this year and a Foreign Service officer since 1961.
The President announced that he will nominate Henry Reiter Webb, Jr., of McLean, Va., for the rank of Ambassador while he serves as United States Negotiator on Textile Matters.
The President announced that he will nominate Alice Coig McDonald, of Prospect, Ky., to be a member of the National Council on Educational Research. McDonald is deputy superintendent of education for the State of Kentucky.
November 25
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Governor Jerry Brown of California;
—Mr. Moore;
—Governor Brendan Byrne of New Jersey;
—a group of his advisers for a budget overview session.
November 26
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Mr. Moore;
—Senator Bill Bradley of New Jersey. The President left the White House for Camp David, Md, where he stayed for Thanksgiving and the holiday weekend.
November 28
The President has declared a major disaster for the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands as a result of Typhoon Dinah, beginning about November 23, which caused extensive property damage.
The President has declared a major disaster for the State of California as a result of major fires and high winds, beginning on or about November 15, which caused extensive property damage.
  