
    Today, President Biden visited a bridge needing major repairs in New Hampshire to kick off an administration-wide effort where the President, Vice President, and Cabinet Members will travel across the country speaking directly with Americans about how the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law will change their lives for the better.
Officials will travel to red states, blue states, big cities, small towns, rural areas, Tribal communities, and more to highlight how the law will create good-paying, union jobs and what the law means in tangible terms: rebuilding roads and bridges, modernizing public transit, expanding access to clean drinking water, ensuring every American has high-speed internet, building a national network of EV charging stations, and more.
See below for more on where the Biden Administration is headed this week:
Axios: First look: Biden's road-warrior campaign"After yesterday's infrastructure-bill signing, President Biden, Vice President Harris and Cabinet members are beginning a months-long road show to showcase the benefits — beginning with a Biden trip today to a bridge in Woodstock, N.H. The big picture: In addition to coast-to-coast travel, the plan includes local and national TV, social media, and Spanish-language and African American focused media."
ABC News: Biden, Democrats hit the road to show how new infrastructure law will help American"Fresh off signing the historic $1.2 trillion infrastructure bill into law, President Joe Biden hit the road Tuesday with his sales pitch, visiting a New Hampshire bridge in disrepair and hoping to translate the legislation into real terms for Americans. … To that end, Democratic members of Congress are planning to hold 1,000 events before the end of the year to make clear to Americans 'what we're doing in this package,' according to the chair of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, Rep. Patrick Maloney of New York."
AP: Biden touts infrastructure deal in NH, first stop in US tour"President Joe Biden arrived in New Hampshire Tuesday for the first time since his 2020 primary-election shellacking, this time with a resounding win in tow: the newly signed $1 trillion infrastructure plan that he hopes to sell across the nation in coming weeks … The president and members of his Cabinet are moving, too — spreading out around the country to showcase the package."
CNN: Biden to sell his new infrastructure law at run-down New Hampshire bridge"President Joe Biden heads to New Hampshire on Tuesday to sell his new infrastructure law, and will stand in front of what the state calls a "structurally deficient" bridge as he outlines how the $1.2 trillion package will help repair the nation's roads and bridges. The President will tout one of his administration's biggest legislative victories in Woodstock, New Hampshire, a day after signing the bipartisan bill into law at a White House ceremony that was attended by both Republicans and Democrats."
WMUR: President Biden delivering remarks in Woodstock"President Joe Biden has arrived in New Hampshire to talk about the infrastructure bill he signed into law Monday … Biden will travel to Woodstock, where he will use the green bridge over the Pemigewasset River as a backdrop to talk about how the new law will help rural communities. The bridge has been red-listed since 2013, meaning it needs major repairs. Woodstock Board of Selectmen chairwoman Charyl Reardon said the Department of Transportation has been making yearly repairs to the bridge."
MLive: President Joe Biden visiting Michigan to promote $1.2T infrastructure bill"President Joe Biden is scheduled to visit an electric vehicle factory in Detroit to promote the impact of a $1.2 trillion infrastructure package Congress passed last week. The White House announced Biden will visit General Motors Factory ZERO assembly plant in Detroit on Wednesday, Nov. 17. The president is expected to discuss how the bipartisan infrastructure deal will grow the automotive industry, create new jobs and reduce carbon emissions."
Columbus Dispatch: Vice President Kamala Harris to visit Columbus on Friday to tout infrastructure deal"Vice President Kamala Harris will visit Columbus on Friday as President Joe Biden's administration touts the $1.2 trillion infrastructure bill that he signed into law Monday afternoon. A White House official said Harris will discuss how the package will 'benefit Ohioans, drive the creation of good-paying union jobs, and create a once-in-a-generation investment in our nation's infrastructure.'"
Mississippi Free Press: EPA Chief Visits Jackson to Address Water Crisis, Discuss Help in Biden Infrastructure Deal"Michael S. Regan, the head of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, is touring Jackson today and addressing topics on the environment with an emphasis on the city's longstanding water infrastructure woes … The EPA said in a press release this morning that the administrator will also 'discuss the benefits of President Biden's Bipartisan Infrastructure Deal and the Build Back Better agenda, and the Administration's commitment to delivering environmental justice.'"
Texas Tribune: Top U.S. environmental regulator to visit Houston neighborhoods where Black and Latino residents bear brunt of pollution"Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Michael Regan will visit Houston on Friday as part of a weeklong tour of neighborhoods across the South where pollution has impacted people's health — predominantly for Black and Latino residents. In Jackson, Mississippi, on Monday, Regan said he would discuss what people deserve from the federal environmental agency and the disproportionate impact pollution has had in historically marginalized communities."
KNXV-TV (ABC Phoenix): Transportation Secretary Pete Buttigieg headed to Arizona following signing of infrastructure law"U.S. Transportation Secretary Pete Buttigieg is headed to Arizona this week following the signing of a new infrastructure law. President Biden signed the law on Monday … Buttigieg is set to highlight the law during his trip to Arizona. Arizona is targeted for approximately $6 billion in federal infrastructure dollars."
  