
    Good evening, and welcome to the White House. I'm so honored to welcome such distinguished guests and ambassadors during the holy month of Ramadan.
America is made better by millions of Muslim citizens. America has close and important relations with many Islamic nations. So it is fitting for America to honor your friendship and the traditions of a great faith by hosting this Iftaar at the White House.
I want to thank our Secretary of State for being here, as well as members of my administration. I want to thank the Ambassadors for taking time in this holy month to come to join us in this feast.
Ramadan is a time of fasting and prayer for the Muslim faithful. So tonight we are reminded of God's greatness and His Commandments to live in peace and to help neighbors in need. According to Muslim teachings, God first revealed His word in the Holy Koran to the Prophet Muhammad during the month of Ramadan. That word has guided billions of believers across the centuries, and those believers built a culture of learning and literature and science.
All the world continues to benefit from this faith and its achievements. Ramadan and the upcoming holiday season are a good time for people of different faiths to learn more about each other. And the more we learn, the more we find that many commitments are broadly shared. We share a commitment to family, to protect and love our children. We share a belief in God's justice and man's moral responsibility. And we share the same hope for a future of peace. We have much in common and much to learn from one another.
This evening we gather in a spirit of peace and cooperation. I appreciate your support of our objectives in the campaign against terrorism. Tonight that campaign continues in Afghanistan, so that the people of Afghanistan will soon know peace. The terrorists have no home in any faith. Evil has no holy days.
This evening we also gather in the spirit of generosity and charity. As this feast breaks the Ramadan fast, America is also sharing our table with the people of Afghanistan. We are proud to play a leading role in humanitarian relief efforts, with airdrops and truck convoys of food and medicine. America's children are donating their dollars to the Afghan children. And my administration is committed to help reconstruct that country and to support a stable government that represents all of the people of Afghanistan.
We are working for more opportunity and a better life for the people of Afghanistan and all the people of the Islamic world. America respects people of all faiths, and America seeks peace with people of all faiths.
I thank you for your friendship, and I wish you a blessed Ramadan.
  