
    State HQ Grand Opening, Senior State Campaign Leadership and
Travelling SE Campaign Support Committee
It is now full steam ahead for the Herman Cain presidential campaign in his home state of Georgia. We are pleased to announce the Grand Opening Celebration and Open House for the Herman Cain 2012 State of Georgia campaign headquarters on Saturday, December 3, 2011 from 11am-2pm at 3700 DeKalb Technology Parkway, Atlanta, Georgia 30340. Special invited guests include State Senator Josh McKoon, State Representative Josh Clark, RNC Georgia National Committeewoman Linda Herren Georgia GOP Chair Sue Everhart, Colonel Michael Steel, WSB Radio Personalities Neal Boortz and Belinda Skelton and Republican Presidential Candidate Herman Cain.
In addition, the senior state leadership for the State of Georgia is now firmly in place. Serving as State Co-Chairs, Dave McCleary and Rachel Little and as Press Secretary, Alfredo Ortiz. Dave has been a Republican activist for more than 30 years and was part of the GOP State Committee from 2007-2011. Dave was the sixth District Republican Chairman and State District/Grassroots Chairman for Governor Mike Huckabee's presidential bid, Senator Johnny Isakson in 2004, Governor Sonny Perdue in 2006 and President George W. Bush in 2004. Dave also attended the Coverdell Leadership Institute from 2002-2003 and has been a Georgia GOP Delegate to the State Convention since 1988. Rachel has been involved in several state and local campaigns and has contributed significantly at the leadership level in the 7th Congressional District of Georgia. She was awarded the Georgia Teen Republican's 2011 Advisor of the Year Award and the Gwinnett County GOP Goldwater Award in 2009 for Service to the Party. Alfredo was a former management consultant for Boston Consulting Group in their Washington, D.C. office and has advised senior Republican leaders such as Michael Steele, former RNC Chair, Newt Gingrich, former Speaker of the House and Rep. Tom Price, 6th District - GA and former Republican Study Committee Chair. He has won numerous awards in the field of marketing including a Magellan Award by the League of American Communications and the Bulldog Reporter's Award for Excellence in Media Relations and Publicity.
Finally, we would like to announce the formation of the Peach State Travelers, a group of dedicated volunteers that will be deployed to various states in the Southeast to lend support to the state campaigns when needed. These bus trips will initially focus on the early primary states, and will standby for later assistance to other states.
"I am excited to announce these exciting and key additions to the campaign. The enthusiasm that is spreading for our campaign across the country and in our local communities is great," said Herman Cain. "And as more people hear my common sense approaches to solving the problems we face as a nation today, the more folks want to jump on the Cain Train."
More information about Herman Cain can be found on his website at www.hermancain.com
For More Information:
Alfredo Ortiz, GA Press Secretary
404-938-2561
Kathy Hoekstra, State Communications Director
404-971-2122
  