
    President Donald J. Trump today announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key positions in his Administration:
Marvin Goodfriend of Pennsylvania to be a Member of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System for the remainder of a 14-year term expiring 1/31/30. Mr. Goodfriend is the Friends of Allan Meltzer Professor of Economics at Carnegie Mellon University's Tepper School of Business. He worked for the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond 1978-2005 where he was director of research and policy advisor from 1993-2005. He served as visiting economist at the Federal Reserve Board 1982-3, senior staff economist for President Reagan's Council of Economic Advisors 1984-5, and visiting professor at the University of Chicago 1988-1990. He has evaluated research and policy advice at the invitation of numerous European central banks. He is an honorary advisor at the Bank of Japan, served on the Federal Reserve Bank of New York's Economic Advisory and Monetary Policy Panels, is a member of the Shadow Open Market Committee, and a research associate of the National Bureau of Economic Research.
Thomas E. Workman of New York to be a Member of the Financial Stability Oversight Council for a term of six years. Mr. Workman served as President & CEO of the Life Insurance Council of New York, Inc. from 1999 to 2016, representing 73 life insurers and 22 law, actuarial, and accounting firms. From 1973 to 1999, Mr. Workman practiced law with Bricker & Eckler LLP in Columbus, Ohio. He chaired the Insurance Law Practice Group and was Legislative Counsel to the Association of Ohio Life Insurance Companies. Mr. Workman has served on various boards, including the Ohio Farmers Insurance Company, the Federation of Regulatory Counsel, the Insurance Federation of New York, and on the Leadership Council of the Griffith Foundation for Insurance Education. The Association of Life Insurance Counsel awarded him the Buist M. Anderson Award for Distinguished Service. From 1970 to 1973, he was a Captain in the U.S. Army J.A.G. Corps. He received his B.S. and J.D. from The Ohio State University
Jeffrey DeWit of Arizona to be Chief Financial Officer at the National Aeronautics and Space Administration. Mr. DeWit is currently the elected State Treasurer of Arizona and serves as Chairman of the Arizona State Board of Investments. As Arizona's chief banker and investment officer, Treasurer DeWit oversees a nearly $14 billion investment portfolio of state, local and trust assets and handles over $30 Billion a year in state transactions. Prior to assuming office in January 2015, he was CEO of ECHOtrade, a firm he started in 1999 and grew to more than 500 licensed professional traders worldwide. Previously he was a market maker on the exchange floor in financial futures contracts as a full member of the Chicago Board of Trade and the CME in Chicago. Treasurer DeWit began his nearly 25-year finance career at Smith Barney in 1992. In 2016 he served as the Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer of the Donald J Trump for President campaign. He has an MBA from the University of Arizona and a BS in Business Administration with concentrations in Finance and Marketing from the University of Southern California (USC). He is also a National Association of Corporate Directors (NACD) Board Leadership Fellow. He is married to Marina and has three daughters, Delaney, Katie, and Jamie.
  