
    Little Rock, AR ˆ Former Arkansas Governor and Presidential Candidate Mike Huckabee announced the launch of his Arkansas GOP Leadership team today ˆ a group that includes a growing list of current and former federal and state Republican officials from the Natural State.
"Republicans in Arkansas have a long track record of taking on difficult tasks, overcoming tremendous challenges and winning battles that no one thought we could win," Huckabee said. "Despite being in a mostly Democrat state, we had great success in cutting taxes, passing pro-life legislation, fighting for the family, improving education and highways and making government more efficient."
"I have known Governor Huckabee for many years, and at one time, I served as his Chief Legal Counsel," former U.S. Attorney Bud Cummins said. "He is a true leader, who makes firm, informed decisions based on simple standards of right and wrong and what is best for the citizens who elected him. He owns his decisions and doesn't need to take a poll before deciding to do what's right. He has been so successful with his straightforward approach that it makes you wonder why more of these people don't try it."
"The two main reasons I support Gov. Huckabee for President are the fact that he has always been pro-life ˆ and he has more than 10 years of executive experience," former Cong. Jay Dickey said. "Gov. Huckabee far outdistances himself from the other candidates by his outstanding moral values and conservative convictions."
"For the past 14 years, I have watched Mike Huckabee lead our state," former U.S. Rep. Asa Hutchinson said. "He fought the Democrat machine in Arkansas and brought honor and dignity to our highest office. He has campaigned long and hard for our Republican candidates to help build a better Arkansas ."
"I had the privilege of serving for eight years in the legislature during the Huckabee administration," Sen. Shawn Womack said. "Anyone who saw his leadership during the Hurricane Katrina relief effort had to be impressed by the way he was able to organize the resources of the state to provide relief and comfort to the tens of thousands of evacuees."
"My experience with Gov. Huckabee that of a man who was thoughtful and well reasoned in his decisions," Former Rep. Doug Matayo said. " Arkansas is much better off because Mike Huckabee was our Governor. He is the best choice for president and I completely support his candidacy."
The following is a list of those who have signed on as members of Huckabee's Arkansas GOP Leadership Team:
§ Bud Cummins ˆ Former U.S. Attorney
§ John Paul Hammerschmidt ˆ Former U.S. Congressman
§ Asa Hutchinson ˆ Former U.S. Congressman
§ Tim Hutchinson ˆ Former U.S. Senator
§ Jay Dickey ˆ Former U.S. Congressman
§ Betty Dickey ˆ Former Chief Justice of Ark. Supreme Court
§ John Boozman ˆ U.S. Congressman
§ Dennis Milligan ˆ Arkansas Republican Party Chairman
§ Gay White ˆ Former First Lady of Arkansas
Lisenne Rockefeller ˆ Widow of the Late Lt. Governor Win Rockefeller
Jim Burnett ˆ Republican National Committeeman & Former NTSB Chairman
Reta Hamilton ˆ Republican National Committeewoman
Phyllis Kincannon ˆ Arkansas Republican Party Activist
Prissy Hickerson ˆ Former Arkansas HighwayCommissioner
Doyle Webb ˆ Former State Senator
Barbara Webb ˆ Former Saline County Prosecutor
Phil Wyrick ˆ Former State Senator
Carolyn Pollan ˆ Former State Representative
Gilbert Baker ˆ State Senator
Sharon Trusty ˆ State Senator
Denny Altes ˆ State Senator
Bill Pritchard ˆ State Senator
Michael Lamoureux ˆState Representative and House Minority Leader
Mark Martin ˆ State Representative
Jim Medley ˆ State Representative
Frank Glidewell ˆ State Representative
Bryan King ˆ State Representative
Beverly Pyle ˆ State Representative
Rick Green ˆSate Representative
Mary Beth Green ˆ Former State Representative
David Haak ˆ Former State Representative
Doug Matayo ˆ Former State Representative
Hoyt Johnson ˆ Former State Representative Candidate
Andy Mayberry ˆ Former U.S. Representative Candidate
Joyce Campbell ˆ Former State Rep. Candidate
Chee Chee Tamburo ˆ Former State Rep. Candidate
Wayne Bowen ˆ Justice of the Peace
Carol Lester ˆ Arkansas County Chairman
Mark Dye ˆ Scott County GOP Chairman
Ladon Copelin ˆ GOP Party Activist
Bernard Mize ˆ Polk County Chair
Billie Sue Hoggard ˆ Former State Representative Candidate
"I'm proud to have these fellow Republicans on my team," Huckabee said. "Their support, combined with the growing momentum of the campaign, will give us what we need for a strong showing in Iowa and the early primary states."
  