
    Releases new policy book, entitled "Plan to Build One America," outlining his bold vision for the country
Des Moines, Iowa – Today, Senator John Edwards delivered a major thematic speech in which he called upon Americans to honor the sacrifice of the millions of veterans in the generations of Americans that came before us by rising up to meet the great moral test of our generation – ensuring that our children have a better, more prosperous life than we've had. Edwards' speech comes on the heels of a rousing performance at the Iowa Democratic Party's Jefferson Jackson Dinner, as well as the launch of his first television ad in Iowa and the endorsement of the 10,000 Iowa-caucus-goer strong Caucus for Priorities.
"For twenty generations, Americans have kept the one moral commandment that makes us American – to pass a better future on to our children than we received," said Edwards. "But everywhere I travel today – in every corner of America – I hear uncertainty – a real concern that we could be the first generation of Americans that fails to leave our children a better future than our parents left us."
Edwards continued: "To be the first generation of Americans to fail that commandment would be an abomination. This is the great moral test of our generation – to ensure that we give our children a better future than we inherited, just as our parents did for us."
In keeping with his commitment to make sure his positions are clear, Edwards also unveiled an 80-page "Plan to Build One America" book (download PDF) laying out his policy proposals on a wide range of issues. Over the next few weeks, the campaign will deliver more than 100,000 copies of the book to Iowa caucus-goers. It will also be available to download from the campaign website at JohnEdwards.com/issues/plan-to-build-one-america.pdf.
"Over the course of the last year, I have offered detailed, honest plans and specific, forthright proposals," said Edwards. "But I don't want anyone in Iowa to have to take my word for it, so I've gone and put them all on paper. Iowans have a right to know where I stand and what I'll do as president. You are the guardians of what kind of president we'll have, and whether America meets the great challenges we face. I'm not afraid to stand here and answer your questions, and I want you to have all the facts."
Edwards' policy proposals focus on four core principles: First, standing up for working and middle class families and passing universal health care; second, restoring America's moral leadership around the world and ending the war in Iraq; third, investing in a better future for our children by improving schools, making college affordable and stopping global warming; and fourth, creating opportunity for all.
Edwards has dedicated his campaign to standing up for hard-working Americans who have no voice in Washington. And his campaign continues to gain strength in Iowa. Last month, Edwards reached an important milestone as he became the first candidate to visit – and answer questions from Iowans – in all 99 counties. Edwards is the first candidate in the race to announce steering committees in all 99 Iowa counties. And he is the only candidate with both County Chairs and Rural County Chairs in every county. Edwards has also earned the endorsements of the Iowa State Council of the Service Employees International Union and 11 other State Councils across the nation – including, most recently, New Hampshire. This is in addition to endorsements from the United Steelworkers, the United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners in America, the Iowa Postal Workers Union, the Transport Workers Union of America, and the United Mine Workers of America.
Excerpts from Edwards' speech on Sunday in Iowa follow.


For twenty generations, Americans have kept the one moral commandment that makes us American – to pass a better future on to our children than we received.
My father had to borrow $50 to bring me home from the hospital. Home was a small house in the mill village owned by the mill where my father worked. I am here today because, like all the people my father worked with in the mill, my parents got up every day believing in the promise of America, and they worked hard – no matter what obstacles were thrown against them – to give me the chance for a better life.
But everywhere I travel today – in every corner of America – I hear uncertainty – a real concern that we could be the first generation of Americans that fails to leave our children a better future than our parents left us.
To be the first generation of Americans to fail that commandment would be an abomination.
This is the great moral test of our generation – to ensure that we give our children a better future than we inherited, just as our parents did for us.
***
Lobbyists and corporate power runs rampant in Washington, subverting our government to its own ends – NAFTA style trade deals pad corporate profits but cost millions of American jobs; so-called prescription drug reform benefits drug companies, not patients; tax breaks and loopholes are showered on the very wealthiest while working Americans struggle to get by.
***
If we have the courage to offer real change and the determination to change Washington – then we will meet the great moral test of our generation. We will leave our children a greater America – One America, where every man, woman and child is blessed with the same, great opportunity and held to the same, just rules.
***
We need to create opportunity for all – the promise of America is a promise made to every American – black, white; gay, straight; healthy, sick; working, retired; rich, poor; born, bred, or just arrived. Every man, woman, and child in this country deserves the same, great chance. And I believe there is a sacred contract between our country and our veterans and armed forces. We have a moral obligation to take care of them and their families.
***
We must no longer live in vague acknowledgment of the corruption and incompetence that threatens the promise of our children's future while saying to ourselves, the problem's just too big, there's nothing we can do about it.
I stand before you today to say – that is not good enough. There is something we can do. Our founders placed the ultimate power in our hands – ours alone. When we take its reins, it is irresistible. If someone tells you there is nothing we can do, you tell them the ghost of generations proves them wrong – there is nothing we cannot do.
***
Let us stand up and give everything we have as all those before us have done.
In their name, let the world know that the fight for a greater America begins today. For universal health care, ending poverty, honoring our veterans, reclaiming our democracy, and ending the war in Iraq. For opportunity, equality, justice, and the idea of America.
This is the moral test of our generation. We can meet it. We will meet it.


More Information

Plan to Build One America (PDF)
Complete Speech Text

  