
    
  Veteran State Republican Leaders to Chair Thompson Virginia Organization

McLean, VA - Today the Fred Thompson campaign announced that two leading Virginia Republicans will serve as the campaign's Virginia Co-Chairs. Former Senator George Allen and Virginia Attorney General Bob McDonnell will lead the Thompson campaign operation in Virginia.
A self-described "Common Sense Jeffersonian Conservative," George Allen has served the Commonwealth of Virginia for over twenty years. Allen first represented Virginia as a delegate in the General Assembly where he held Thomas Jefferson's seat. Elected to the United States Congress in 1991, Allen was later elected as Governor of Virginia in 1994. While in office he achieved criminal justice reform, education reform, promoted economic growth and helped reform Virginia's government. Elected to the United States Senate in 2000, he was a leading advocate in creating policies to make America and Virginia a leader in innovation an d technology. Allen was unanimously elected Chairman of the National Republican Senatorial Committee in 2002 where under his leadership Republicans gained four Senate seats and expanded their majority. Today, he serves as the Reagan Ranch Presidential Scholar for the Young America's Foundation. He also currently serves as a National Co-Chair for the Fred Thompson campaign.
"As we face increasing challenges as a nation, America needs honest leadership on tough and important issues," said Senator Allen. "Fred Thompson has the conservative credentials and leadership qualities necessary to secure our borders, ensure our economic prosperity and protect us from growing global threats. I am proud to serve as his National Co-Chair and look forward to spreading his conservative message to the great people of my home state as his Virginia Co-Chair."
Attorney General Bob McDonnell was elected as the 44th Attorney General of Virginia on November 8, 2005. Prior to serving as Attorney General, McDonnell represented the 84th District for 14 years in the Virginia House of Delegates where he served as the Assistant Majority leader and Chairman of the House Courts of Justice Committee. While in the House of Delegates, McDonnell was a leader in advocating for criminal justice and victims' rights issues, as well as welfare, taxation, and family policy. A former prosecutor in the Virginia Beach Commonwealth's Attorney's office, Attorney General McDonnell served 21 years in the United States Army before retiring as a Lieutenant Colonel.
"I strongly support Fred Thompson for President," said Attorney General McDonnell. "Fred is a consistent, common sense conservative whose record matches his rhetoric and whose vision for America is equal to our many current challenges. America needs a strong leader, and Fred Thompson is that leader. I am honored to Co-Chair his campaign in Virginia."
"George Allen and Bob McDonnell have been great leaders for the people of Virginia and I am pleased to have the support of these good friends," said Senator Thompson. "We share the same conservative values and believe in the same first principles and I welcome their support as we carry our consistent conservative message along the campaign trail."
  