
    WASHINGTON – Today, President Barack Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key Administration posts:
•      Sue K. Brown, Ambassador to the Republic of Montenegro, Department of State
•      David L. Carden, Representative of the United States of America to the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, with the rank of Ambassador, Department of State
President Obama also announced his appointment of the following individuals to key Administration posts:
•      Stephen E. Condrey, Chairman, Federal Salary Council
•      Lou Cannon, Member, Federal Salary Council
•      Jeffrey David Cox, Member, Federal Salary Council
•      Rex L. Facer, Member, Federal Salary Council
•      Bill Fenaughty, Member, Federal Salary Council
•      Colleen Kelley, Member, Federal Salary Council
•      Jacqueline Simon, Member, Federal Salary Council
President Obama said, "These impressive individuals bring a wealth of knowledge and tremendous dedication to their new roles. I am confident that they will serve the American people well, and I look forward to working with them in the months and years ahead."
President Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key administration posts:
Sue K. Brown, Nominee for Ambassador to the Republic of Montenegro, Department of StateSue K. Brown is a career member of the Senior Foreign Service with the rank of Minister Counselor. She has served since 2009 as Office Director for Southern African Affairs in the Bureau of African Affairs. Previously, Ms. Brown served as Deputy Chief of Mission at the U.S. Embassy in Accra, Ghana and Asmara, Eritrea. Other overseas postings include Indonesia, France, Liberia, Kenya, Nigeria and Cote d'Ivoire.
David L. Carden, Nominee for Representative of the United States of America to the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, with the rank of Ambassador, Department of State
David L. Carden is a partner at Jones Day, an international law firm with over 30 offices around the world, including six offices in Asia. Currently he is the worldwide Co-Chair of Jones Day's Securities Litigation and SEC Enforcement Practice. Prior to his current responsibilities, Mr. Carden was Litigation Coordinator in Jones Day's New York office, which included oversight of its litigation and intellectual property practices. Mr. Carden serves on the Board of Visitors for the Indiana University School of Law. He received a J.D. from Indiana University, where he was Order of the Coif and a B.A. from DePauw University in Indiana, where he was elected to Phi Beta Kappa.
President Obama announced his appointment of the following individuals to key administration posts:
Stephen E. Condrey, Appointee for Chairman, Federal Salary Council
Stephen Condrey is senior associate and director of the Carl Vinson Institute of Government's human resource management assistance program and adjunct professor of public administration in the University of Georgia's School of Public and International Affairs. He has over 25 years of professional experience in human resource management and has consulted nationally and internationally with over 500 organizations concerning personnel-related issues. Condrey received his B.S. from the University of Montevallo, his MPA from the University of Tennessee, and a Ph.D. in Public Administration from the University of Georgia.
Lou Cannon, Appointee for Member, Federal Salary Council 
Lou Cannon is the Chief of Police of the District of Columbia Protective Services Police Department and Deputy Director at the Department of Real Estate Services. In this role, he is responsible for all of the Department's operations, including security and law enforcement for over five hundred Government facilities. Prior to that, he served at the Department of Navy Office as Naval Intelligence Chief of Police and Commander of Law Enforcement Operations Emergency Preparedness and Anti-Terrorism. During his thirty-five plus years in law enforcement, Cannon also served with the Department of Treasury US Mint Police as Commander of Operations and Major Events, the Library of Congress Police Department, and the Washington DC Metropolitan Police Department.
Jeffrey David Cox, Appointee for Member, Federal Salary Council 
Jeffrey David Cox is the National Secretary Treasurer at the American Federation of Government Employees (AFGE). Prior to serving in this role, Cox served more than 11 years as first executive vice president of the AFGE National Veterans Affairs Council and 18 years as president of Local 1738. He also served as co-chair of the VA National Partnership Council and is currently Vice Co-Chair of the AFL-CIO's Union Veterans Council.
Rex L. Facer, Appointee for Member, Federal Salary Council 
Rex L. Facer is associate professor and the Warren Jones Fellow of Public Finance and Management in the Romney Institute of Public Management at Brigham Young University's Marriott School of Management, where he teaches in the Master of Public Administration program. His current research focuses on alternative work schedules, financing infrastructure, the role of infrastructure in economic development, and budgetary decision-making. Facer earned his B.A. and MPA from Brigham Young University and his Ph.D. in Public Management, Public Policy Analysis, and Public Administration from the University of Georgia.
Bill Fenaughty, Appointee for Member, Federal Salary Council 
Bill Fenaughty is the National Secretary-Treasurer of the National Federation of Federal Employees, a position that he has held since July, 2009. A 34-year veteran of the federal workforce at the Watervliet Arsenal, and a union member for nearly 30-years, Fenaughty holds extensive representational experience as both a local and national union officer. Prior to assuming the office of Secretary-Treasurer, Fenaughty worked as National Assistant Directing Business Representative (ADBR) from 2002-2009. Before joining the civilian federal workforce in 1973, Fenaughty served in the United States Navy from 1964-1968. He was also a long time member of the U.S. Naval Reserve, serving for 25 years until his retirement in 1990. He attended SUNY at Albany and is a graduate of the National Labor College, holding a Bachelor of Arts in Labor Studies.
Colleen Kelley, Appointee for Member, Federal Salary Council 
Colleen Kelley is the National President of the National Treasury Employees Union (NTEU), representing approximately 150,000 employees in 31 separate government agencies. Kelley was elected NTEU president in 1999. She serves on the Employee Thrift Advisory Council of the Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board, the Federal Employee Education and Assistance Fund Board of Directors, and the Board of Governors of the Partnership for Public Service. Previously, Kelley was an IRS Revenue Agent for 14 years and served in various NTEU chapter leadership positions, including chapter president of NTEU Chapter 34 in Pittsburgh. She has a B.A. in accounting from Drexel University and an MBA from the University of Pittsburgh.
Jacqueline Simon, Appointee for Member, Federal Salary Council 
Jacqueline Simon is currently the Public Policy Director at the American Federation of Government Employees. She has served as a spokesperson for the organization on wide range of issues related to federal government, advocated for federal employees, and organized labor more generally. Prior to her Public Policy Director role, Jacqueline Simon was an Economist at the Economic Policy Institute and an Economist at the AFL-CIO. In both capacities she dealt with union and labor research. Ms. Simon has a B.A. in Economics from The American University.
  