
    Prime Minister Abe. At the outset, I'd like to express my heartfelt condolences and sympathy for your loss and also for those who lost their lives and those who were hurt in the shooting incident in Texas this morning. I understand that you are facing a very difficult time at this moment, and I'd like to express our heartfelt solidarity with the United States.
President Trump. Thank you.
Prime Minister Abe. And once again, I wholeheartedly welcome your visit to Japan, Donald, and also Madam First Lady. And also prior to your visit to Japan, we had an honor and pleasure of welcoming your daughter, Ms. Ivanka Trump, and there was actually a fever among the Japanese people. [Laughter]
Yesterday we did enjoy playing golf together and also had a great time over dinner with you and the Madam First Lady. So, over lunch, I very much look forward to having an in-depth and candid discussion to cover the issue of North Korea and other challenges that we face.
The Japan-U.S. alliance is the foundation for peace and prosperity in the Asia Pacific region, as well as in the international community. And through your visit to Japan this time, I am ready to further solidify our unwavering bond and relationship under the alliance.
President Trump. Shinzo, thank you very much. This has been an absolutely great 2 days. You've become a very close friend, as everybody knows. And to be with you and Madam was just really something very special. To have the privilege of playing golf with you and Matsuyama—[laughter]—was great. He's a great champion and a great celebrity, even in our country, a great celebrity.
But the time that we spent together has been very fruitful. We will be now discussing trade. We'll be discussing North Korea. We'll be discussing military. I appreciate all of the purchases you're making toward military equipment and other things in the United States. And you know, we make the best, and you will get the best service.
But this has been a very, very special 2 days. So, on behalf of the United States of America and all of my representatives, I'd like thank you and all of your representatives. And we will continue to have a relationship that's even better than we have ever had with Japan.
Thank you very much. Thank you.
  