
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

Throughout the United States, dedicated professionals and volunteers working in more than 12,000 home health care agencies are bringing needed medical services to millions of ill and disabled Americans. This week, as we recognize these hardworking men and women for their efforts, we also acknowledge the important role that home care plays in our Nation's health care system.
When appropriate, home care is more than an effective and economical alternative ti institutionalization. For the patient, it can bring the added comfort and reassurance of a warm, familiar environment. Home care not only emphasizes the dignity and independence of the patient, but also alleviates the suffering caused by separation from loved ones. In the home, a patient is able to obtain treatment while enjoying the love and support of his or her family.
Working in concert with government agencies and concerned organizations, home health care providers give millions of ill and disabled Americans a welcome alternative to hospitalization and other institutionalized forms of care. During National Home Care Week, we recognize the benefits of this importatnt partnership.
To increase public awareness and support for our Nation's home health care service providers, the Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 184, has designated the weeks beginning November 26, 1989, and November 25, 1990, as "National Home Care Week" and has requested the President to issue a proclamation calling for appropriate observances of these weeks.
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim November 26 through December 2, 1989, and November 25 through December 1, 1990, as Natonal Home Care Week. I urge all concerned government officials, health care and social service providers, private voluntary organizatons, insurance companies, and the American public to observe these weeks with appropriate programs, ceremonies, and activities.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-seventh day of November, in the year of our Lord, nineteen hundred and eighty-nine, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fourteenth.

GEORGE BUSH
  