
    The Clinton Campaign today announced the Washington DC for Hillary Steering Committee made up of a diverse group of community leaders from across the District.
"Hillary is clearly the most experienced and qualified candidate in the Presidential race. She will be a great leader for America, and an extraordinary role model for women in the United States and around the world," said Pauline Schneider, attorney and former President of the District of Columbia Bar.
"We need a leader who has the vision, the demonstrated leadership, and the ability to restore America's standing in the world," said Alejandra Castillo, founding member and member of the Board of Directors for the Dominican American National Roundtable. "Not only does Hillary appreciate the importance of America's standing in the world, she will also work to provide District residents with long overdue voting rights," Castillo added.
"Hillary Clinton has the strength and experience to deliver the change that this country needs," said Councilman Jack Evans.
"Her 35-year record fighting for children and families makes Hillary uniquely qualified to be President and hit the ground running on her first day in office," said Councilman Bill Lightfoot.
"We've seen growing support in Washington DC, and I'm honored that these community leaders are joining our effort to change America," Clinton said.
CO-CHAIRS


Alejandra Castillo, Attorney, Founding Member and Member of the Board of Directors, Dominican American National Roundtable
Mary Cheh, Councilwoman, Ward 3
Jack Evans, Councilman, Ward 2
Jim Graham, Councilman, Ward 1
William P. Lightfoot, Attorney and Former Councilman At-Large
Cora Masters Barry, Former First Lady of Washington, DC, and Founder of the Southeast Tennis and Learning Center
Vincent Orange, Attorney and Former Councilman, Ward 5
Pauline Schneider, Attorney and Former President, District of Columbia Bar

COMMITTEE MEMBERS


Mary Eva Candon, DNC Member
Yolanda Caraway, DNC Member
Hartina Flournoy, DNC Member
Harold Ickes, DNC Member
Ben Johnson, DNC Member
Eric Kleinfeld, DNC Member
Minyon Moore, DNC Member
Elizabeth Smith, DNC Member
Marilyn Tyler Brown, DNC Member
Mario Acosta-Velez, Ward 2
Cheryle Adams, Ward 6
Cheryl Benton, Ward 4
Melanie Benton-Gobourne, Ward 4
Bishop Imagene Bingham-Stewart, Ward 6
Charles Blake, Ward 4
Leo Bosner, Ward 1
Darren Bowie, Ward 2
Joanne Boxley-May, Ward 5
Harold Brazil, Ward 6
Irene Bueno, Ward 3
Michael Buie, Ward 3
Marie Louise Caravatti, Ward 2
Maria Cardona, Ward 1
Eileen Carlson, Ward 3
Matt Cary, Ward 1
Carol Casperson, Ward 8
Ed Chow, Ward 2
Shelley Cohen, Ward 3
Sam Cooper , Ward 6
William (Bill) Cramer, Ward 2
Alfreda V. Davis, Ward 7
Jacquelyn Davis, Ward 2
Desi Deshaine, Ward 2
Anita Estell, Ward 2
John J. Fanning, Ward 1
Diana Femia, Ward 3
Harriet Fields, Ward 2
Riley Folds, Ward 2
Stephanie Foster, Ward 2
Rodney Foxworth, Ward 4
David Franco, Ward 1
Gaby Fraser, Ward 8
Phillip Galbreath, Ward 3
Franklin Garcia, Ward 4
Anthony Giancola, Ward 4
Darrin Glymph, Ward 4
Stephen Gorman, Ward 4
Lorraine A. Green, Ward 6
Linda Greene, Ward 8
Sebastian Heath, Ward 6
Glen Howard, Ward 4
Lauren Howard, Ward 4
Lester Hyman, Ward 3
Calixtus Idiong, Ward 4
Cynthia Jasso-Rotunno, Ward 6
Heather King, Ward 2
Elizabeth Kreitzman, Ward 3
Howie Kreitzman, Ward 3
Bruce Lehman, Ward 2
Grace J. Lewis, Ward 5
Reta Lewis, Ward 6
Judith Lichtman, Ward 3
Mary Lofton-Manning, Ward 3
Mark Long, Ward 7
Claire Lucas, Ward 3
Tim Mahoney, Ward 1
Jeffrey Marburg-Goodman, Ward 2
John McGaw, Ward 2
Jim Nathanson, Ward 2
Thomas O'Donnell, Ward 2
Stanley Onye, Ward 4
Dixon Osburn, Ward 2
Peter Pappas, Ward 2
Peter Rosenstein, Ward 2
Deborah Royster, Ward 4
Marilyn Sephocle, Ward 4
Carol Shapiro, Ward 3
Roderick Shaw, Ward 4
Linda Jo Smith, Ward 7
Shareda Smith, Ward 7
Saul Solorzano, Ward 4
Bill Starrels, Ward 2
Casey Stringer, Ward 4
Judith Terra, Ward 4
John Tinpe, Ward 2
Shelley Tomkin, Ward 3
S. Gina Trippi, Ward 3
Kadesha Washington, Ward 8
Keith Washington, Ward 5
Karen E. Williamson, Ward 4
Tanya Wilson-Johnson, Ward 6
Chantale Wong, Ward 3
Frank Yurrita, Ward 2

  