
    
  Be sure to tune into tomorrow's CNBC debate at 8:00pm ET and take a look for yourself at how Governor Huntsman stacks up against his opponents.

A window of opportunity is opening for our campaign as more voters are beginning to discover the conservative problem-solver who is offering leadership you can trust - Jon Huntsman.
Two days ago former GE Chairman Jack Welch described Jon as "thoughtful and presidential" and deserving "of a second look." This comes on the heels of last week's New York Times statistical model which shows Governor Huntsman as the candidate most likely to defeat President Obama.
This morning, the influential conservative columnist Erick Erickson lauded Governor Huntsman's economic plan as "the best…of all the candidates" and indicated he will be taking a "second look" at his candidacy, asserting that Huntsman is more electable and faithful to his convictions than Mitt Romney.
Be sure to tune into tomorrow's CNBC debate at 8:00pm ET and take a look for yourself at how Governor Huntsman stacks up against his opponents.
As voters take a closer look at Jon's resume, record of results and vision for America's future, we need to make certain we have the financial resources we need to compete in New Hampshire and across the nation.
If you want a principled, effective leader with a track record of getting things done taking on President Obama one year from today, you want Governor Jon Huntsman.
Every supporter of Governor Huntsman's campaign is receiving this email today and we are counting on each of you to make an immediate donation of $10, $25, $50 or the maximum contribution of $2,500 to give us the resources we need to effectively compete.
Thank you for all you are doing.
Proud to stand with Jon Huntsman,
Matt David
Campaign Manager
P.S. Momentum for Governor Huntsman's campaign for President is growing.  Please consider making an immediate donation of $10, $25, $50 or more to help fund our efforts. Then please share this blog with your personal network of friends, family and co-workers on twitter and facebook to help us spread the word.
  