
    Haaland, Porter, and Pressley were elected to Congress in 2018 as part of the wave of women who volunteered, organized, and won up-and-down the ticket
Charlestown, MA – Today, Elizabeth Warren announced that U.S. Representatives Deb Haaland (D-N.M.), Katie Porter (D-Calif.), and Ayanna Pressley (D-Mass.) will serve as Co-Chairs of the Warren for President campaign.
Reps. Haaland, Porter, and Pressley were elected to Congress in 2018 as part of the wave of women who volunteered, organized, and won up-and-down the ticket. They have traveled across the country to connect with voters about why Elizabeth Warren is the fighter we need to beat Trump in 2020 and make real change come January 2021.
"I'm deeply grateful to be standing shoulder to shoulder with Deb, Katie, and Ayanna as we fight for big structural change," said Elizabeth Warren. "Together, we will continue building a grassroots movement to root out corruption in Washington and make our democracy work for everyone, not just the wealthy and well-connected. Deb, Katie, and Ayanna are relentless advocates for working families. It's an incredible honor to have these three persistent women on our team."
"Elizabeth and I both come from humble beginnings. We both were single moms, and we understand what it means to live paycheck-to-paycheck, struggling to make ends meet," said Rep. Haaland. "Since I was elected to Congress last year, Elizabeth and I have worked side-by-side on proposals to establish Universal Child Care, improve housing for military families, and make sure the U.S. government fulfills its trust and treaty obligations to Native people. Elizabeth is a champion for Indian Country, she's my dear friend, and I'm proud to be in this fight with her as Co-Chair of her campaign."
Read Deb's op-ed in Indian Country Today expressing her support for Elizabeth here.
"Elizabeth Warren is the candidate we need to beat Donald Trump in 2020, root out corruption in 2021, and make big structural change to bring relief to working families all across the country," said Rep. Porter. "She understands that corruption is the reason our government has failed to solve the crises we face, like the racial wealth gap, the gun violence epidemic, and climate change. She has the courage to recognize corruption as the problem, to name it, and to take it on. I'm honored to be Co-Chair of the Warren for President campaign."
Read Katie's interview with the Des Moines Register about her support for Elizabeth here.
"Elizabeth listens to the voices of families who are struggling, and has responded with activism, visionary policies, and community-led plans. From fighting to erase income inequality and close the racial wealth gap, to confronting the epidemic of gun violence and working to dismantle structural racism, Elizabeth has made it her life's work to pursue justice for working families and put economic and political power in the hands of the people," said Rep. Pressley. "It's my honor to serve as Co-Chair of Elizabeth's campaign, so we can build a grassroots movement, win in 2020, and make real change come January 2021."
  