
    Pool Reports by Emily Goodin, Daily Mail 



Sent:
Reports:




November 29, 202110:11

FLOTUS pool report one: Holiday decoration details 
Good morning from the White House where first lady Jill Biden unveiled this year's holiday theme: Gifts from the Heart.
Social Secretary Carlos Elizondo led the Bidens on a private tour of the decorations on Sunday afternoonwhen they got back from Nantucket, he said.
The planning for holiday decorations began in late May and early June. The first lady was described as being "very involved" in the planning, according to her Communications Director Elizabeth Alexander.
A few highlights at the top of this long pool report:

Social Secretary Carlos Elizondo said "we didn't have too much problems with supply chain but there were some items that were backed up." Specifically some of the topiaries took longer to get.
Communications Director Elizabeth Alexander said there will be "more announcements in the coming days will be about additional openings" at the White House, which is currently closed for public tours because of COVID.
The Bidens' official Christmas card contains a remembrance for those who lost their lives to COVD. The front is a drawing of the South Portico and the Truman balcony decorated for Christmas.
In one of the decorations in the Crosshallway is a replica of the stained glass window in the chapel at Camp David, done at Jill Biden's request. It contains the presidential seal and the words "We the People."
Decorating the trees in the State Dining room are framed photos of past first families. Those came from the archives. There are also many Biden family photos on the two trees that Dr. Biden picked out the last couple of times she's been in Delaware. "She's been going through old family albums to pick them out," Alexander said.
The Trumps, Obamas, both Bushes, Reagans, and Carters all have photos on the tree. The Biden family photos include the kids and grandkids along with dogs Champ and Major.
On the fireplace are stockings with the Biden grandkids' names: Naomi, Finnegan, Maisy, Natalie, Hunt and Baby.
Pastry chef Susan Morrison said Dr. Biden placed a gingerbread school teacher next to the school house on the Gingerbread House display, which contains eight detailed replicas of community buildings representing frontline workers in addition to the White House. It was the last decorative touch added and the first lady did so yesterday.
Elizondo said for the first time ever there is a wreath on the pediment of the White House (the area outside the North Portico above the columns) that is lit up. It was done at the first lady's request. Also for the first time are wreaths on the Truman balcony.

The fun continues. Later today Dr. Biden will welcome a second grade class from Malcolm Elementary School for a puppet show and she will read "Don't Forget, God Bless our Troops." Her second event will be thanking the volunteers that decorated the White House.
Here is the detailed pool report:
Social Secretary Carlos Elizondo and Communications Director Elizabeth Alexander took some questions at the start of the tour. Transcript below. They also took questions during the tour so more quotes are scattered throughout this report.
Elizondo: "So we've been talking with the first lady and meeting with the first lady since early summer about her theme and about the decor for the season. And, I mean, the theme obviously speaks for itself - Gifts From the Heart - and you will find every room with sort of an element of another theme, a sub theme, if you will."
Alexander: "It was really important for her overall theme that is, she wanted to focus on - she and the president wanted to focus on things that unite us, things that heal us, things that bring us together, and that's Gifts from the Heart."
Elizondo, asked if they had supply chain problems getting decorations: "We didn't have too much problems with supply chain but there were some items that were backed up, obviously just like everybody else is experiencing in the country. But we did manage to source everything before the reveal."
Elizondo, asked if problems with any particular items: "I think there was just a couple of topiaries that we wanted to source - it's not that we didn't get them but they it took a little longer to get them."
Alexander: "Obviously as in previous years, there's a lot of things that are reused and recycled and used in different ways."
Elizondo said a lot of the executive mansion staff and volunteers went to the warehouses to get decorations: "A lot of the, you know, the standard ornament balls, if you will, those are all part of the White House collection that we obviously repurpose, because you can use those, you know, for everything."
Alexander, on how people can experience the decorations given there are no public tours right now due to COVID: "Obviously the Bidens are excited to celebrate the holidays. They have, as you know, an Open House on Wednesday night to celebrate Hanukkah. …. More announcements in the coming days will be about additional openings. But one of the things that we're really excited about and one of the reasons why you all are here is to bring the people's house out to the people. We have many interactive features that are going to launch in the coming days, both on our own digital platforms - whitehouse.gov/holidays. There will be interactive features and augmented reality features from Instagram and Snapchat and others. PBS Kids is joining us today for part of the press preview to make sure that children can experience the holidays from the White House through their free and available educational resources. And we'll be doing many other things and so it's one of the things that we're really concentrating on this year is to make sure that people can experience the holidays from their own homes if they can't make it here in person. But stay tuned on additional announcements about the White House being more open in person."
The pool was the treated to a one-hour tour of the decorations.
I'm including specific details about each of the rooms learned on the tour. Each room had a separate theme that ties into the Gifts from the Heart theme.
The East Wing also sent out a release with decoration details, which you can access (along with the White House Holiday Guide) here: https://www.whitehouse.gov/holidays-2021/
The tour began at the East Wing entrance where the Marine Corps band played Christmas carols. Giant presents were stacked around the doorway and, at the top, was a large gift tag reading the theme "Gifts from the Heart."
The theme of the East Wing is "Gift of Service." It is decorated with iridescent doves and shooting stars that are lit up at night. Outside, in the East Wing garden, are topiaries of reindeer.
Along the colonnade hallway were photos of the former first families – Ford, Reagan, Carter, Kennedy, Obama, Bushes (both HW and W) and Trump – at turkey pardonings and at holiday events at White House.
The official Biden White House Christmas was on display. It is a drawing of the South Portico and Truman Balcony decorated for Christmas. On the back is a drawing of a candle with the words: "In remembrance of all Americans who lost their lives to COVID-19 and in recognition of essential and frontline workers, first responders, and our service members and their families."
The quote inside the card is from Helen Keller: "The best and most beautiful things in the world cannot be seen or even touched – they must be felt with the heart."
It is signed "Joe" and "Jill."
Also on display were the past White House holiday cards from the Obama and Trump presidencies.
In the East Landing is the Gold Star Tree, dedicated to the women and men of our nation's military, who have laid down their lives for our country, and the families who carry on their legacies.
The library is the "Gift of Learning." Dr. Biden added children's books. The butterfly design decorating the room was the first lady's idea, per Elizabeth Alexander. The butterflies were made out of recycled papers.
The Vermeil Room was the "Gift of Visual Arts." The decorations, which included paint brushes, were inspired by an Alma Thomas painting that President Obama brought. The painting – titled "Resurrection" - was on display. It usually sits in the private family dining room. History of the painting is here: >https://www.whitehousehistory.org/diversity-in-white-house-art-alma-thomas<
The China Room was dedicated "Gift of Friendship and Family". The table setting were done according to "Nana style" (a Jill Biden reference) with candles and flowers. The china on the table was from the Obama administration. The wreathes on the trees were of intertwined hands.
The Grand Foyer and Cross Hall was "Gifts of Faith and Community."
In one of the decorations was a replica of the stained glass window in the chapel at Camp David, done at Jill Biden's request. It was made by a vendor from New York. It is the eagle seal of the president with the words "We the People."
The East Room was "Gifts of Gratitude": The decorations on the trees were cards the president and first lady have received over the past year. There are also large thank you cards featuring messages from FLOTUS and POTUS standing in the corners.
The Green Room is "Gifts of Nature" with purple trees and orchids decorating the room.
The Blue Room is "Gift of Peace and Unity." This is where the official White House Christmas Tree is. The tree is decorated with peace doves and the names of the states on white ribbons. The states are in alphabetical order, starting from the top.
The Red room is "Gifts of the Performing Arts." Elizabeth Alexander said Dr. Biden wanted this room because the performing arts have taken on new meaning on social media and during pandemic." There has been a "renewed appreciation" of them.
The State Dining Room is "Gift of Family." On the trees are photos of past first families. Those came from the archives. There are also several Biden family photos on them. Dr. Biden picked out the pictures herself the last couple of times when she's been in Delaware. "She's been going through old family albums to pick them out," Alexander said.
The Trumps, Obamas, both Bushes, Reagans, and Carters all have photos on the tree. The Biden family photos include the kids and grandkids along with dogs Champ and Major.
On the fireplace are stockings with the Biden grandkids' names: Naomi, Finnegan, Maisy, Natalie, Hunt and Baby Beau.
The stockings are from a vendor in Delaware and is the same vendor that made for stockings for Jill Biden of her kids and grandkids.
Also in the state dining room is the White House Gingerbread House. This year's includes additional buildings honoring front line workers and first responders. The buildings include a grocery store, school, post office, warehouse, hospital, fire station, police station, and gas station.
From the East Wing: The display includes eight detailed replicas of community buildings representing frontline workers. To complete the finishing touches, the White House pastry team used 55 sheets of baked gingerbread, 120 pounds of pastillage, 35 pounds of chocolate, and 25 pounds of royal icing.
Elizondo: "She wanted to help highlight the people that had gotten us through this pandemic - the frontline workers, the first responders and she also wanted an element that's different, that's not been done in the past."
Elizondo said for the first time ever there is a wreath on the pediment of the White House (the area outside the North Portico above the columns) that is lit up. It was done at the first lady's request.
"That's never been done. … She loves wreaths. She loves Christmas. She loves lights. So she also asked for wreaths on the south side of the house. So this year for the first time ever we have three large wreaths illuminated on the Truman Balcony," he said.
On the school house building is a working school bell and two doves named Peace and Unity, in accordance with the holiday theme.
Pastry chef Susan Morrison said Dr. Biden placed a gingerbread school teacher next to the school house on the display: "One of the last things we had placed on the White House display was placed by Dr. Biden and that was the school teacher right here. We know how it is near and dear to her heart. So we left her place the last special piece on the display yesterday."
The official White House Christmas cookie is a shortbread type cookie in the shape of a peace dove and has white icing.
Please reach out with any questions.



November 29, 202113:29

FLOTUS pool report #2 - event with second graders 
Jill Biden is holding an event in the East Room with PBS Kids characters including Ms. Elaina, Daniel Tiger, Molly of Denali, and Arthur of PBS and Rosita of Sesame Street.
She is also joined by second graders from Maryland, who took their place on the floor sitting on paper stars so they are spaced out. "Sit on your star," the kids were reminded repeatedly.
The 17 kids are wearing face masks, wrist bands to indicate they have been COVID tested and have a copy of the White House holiday guide.
There is a special program with Martin and Chris Kratt from Wild Kratts and then FLOTUS will read from her book co-written with grand daughter Natalie "Don't Forget, God Bless Our Troops."
FLOTUS entered at 1:21 pm. She is wearing a green dress with a white flower and gold leaf patterns.
She was introduced by the Kratt Brothers.
From the East Wing:
In honor of the National Guard's role responding to the COVID-19 pandemic, and all those National Guard families spending holidays apart from loved ones, the First Lady will be joined again by National Guard family, Captain Maryanne V. Harrell, husband Levi, and their three children, Levi II, Marcus, and Elliana. Captain Maryanne V. Harrell currently serves as the unit commander for the District of Columbia Army National Guard (DCARNG) Medical Detachment. The Harrell family also previously joined the First Lady for the Official White House Christmas Tree arrival.
The First Lady will welcome Elliana Harrell's second grade class from Malcolm Elementary School in Waldorf, Maryland to the White House to help her unveil the 2021 decorations. There will be a special pre-program with PBS KIDS characters Martin and Chris Krattfrom the show, Wild Kratts. After, the First Lady will read Don't Forget, God Bless our Troops, followed by a PBS Kids Holiday Puppet Show for the school children.
MoMore
More TK…



November 29, 202114:13

FLOTUS pool report #3 - FLOTUS book reading 
Dr. Biden started off by reminding the second graders she is a teacher.
"Do you know I'm a teacher? Yes, I'm a teacher. So I teach English so I love kids who love books and learning to read," she said.Shen then asked if any of them are in a military family. About half a dozen raised their hands and she asked them what branch of the military their parent is in.
She then talked about why she wrote her book: "The Bidens are a military family and my dad was in the Navy and he fought in World War Two. And my son was Army. So when my son was away, my granddaughter - just like you kids - really, really missed her daddy so I wrote this book to tell other kids because there's lots of kids who don't know what it's like to be a military kid. … And they don't realize that sometimes it's really hard. So what I did was I wrote a story about my son when he was away, and I talked to my granddaughter Natalie, and so she told me all about it so I knew exactly how she felt. So I'm going to read you the story of my son, and his name is Beau and here's the story."
She put on glasses to read the book. She sat on a stool by the fireplace with the kids on the floor in front of her.
As she read, she stopped to ask the kids questions related to sections in the book, such as do you have pets.
Several raised their hands and talked about their pets. One little boy started talking about his dogs that died.
"Let's move on the happier things," FLOTUS suggested and started reading again.
After she finished reading, the puppets Purple Panda, Donkey Hodie, and Grampy then did a show.
The puppets then sang a custom version of Deck the Halls which included the lyrics "deck the halls with Donkie Hodie" and "fa la la la la la he haw." They also sang another custom song and ended with Jingle Bells.
C-SPAN has video of the event: >https://www.c-span.org/video/?516345-1/lady-remarks-white-house-holiday-...
Pool was pulled about 1:45 pm as the puppet show was wrapping. FLOTUS was still in the room.
We'll have one more event: Her remarks thanking volunteers who decorated the White House for the holidays.
Also apologies but the book reading event took place in the State Dining Room. Pooler said East Room in previous report.



November 29, 202115:38

FLOTUS pool report #4 - FLOTUS remarks 
Jill Biden will address volunteers who decorated the White House for the holidays.
Per the East Wing: The First Lady will deliver remarks with a message of unity and gratitude and thank the over 100 volunteers from the area who helped decorate the White House for the holiday.
Her remarks in East Room will air live via the White House so pooler will just send some highlights:
https://youtu.be/MP3HGgcRMCE
The room is packed with about 100 people who are wearing face masks. The First Lady walked down the cross hall to a podium between two trees with the decorations in the cross hall visible behind her.
Remarks have started.



November 29, 202115:41

FLOTUS pool report #5 - Highlights from FLOTUS remarks 
Dr. Biden spoke for about five minutes and was greeted with thunderous applause cheers."I feel like I should be applauding you because you're certainly the ones that made this house a home so thank you very much," she said.She talked about her favorite holiday traditions and memories, including setting the table and putting out flowers and candles.She noted traditions are "as varied as we find the people who make up this country. But at the core of our traditions are threads that unite us all - faith, family, and friendship, gratitude and service, and love for our community. And when it gets difficult, when the pandemic keeps us apart, like I know how tough this year has been, but when we struggle to get by, or we feel like the weight of our lives is just too heavy to carry, these constants remind us that we are not alone.""For all of our differences, we are united by what really matters like points on a star we come together at the heart. That is what I wanted to reflect in our White House this year."She thanked the volunteers for their work: "You all made this possible. Thank you for everything you've done. In the Christmas story, the Magi traveled from afar, each carrying very unique and precious gifts. They didn't know their destination but they held on to their faith and followed a divine star. There are still challenges ahead for our nation. There will be moments when the answers seem unclear. But we have a guiding light as well. Not a star in the sky. But a divine truth within us - the values that make us who we are, the threads that unite us all, the gifts from the heart. No matter how dark the night when we turn toward that light, we will never be lost. So thank you for helping us share those gifts from the heart. And happy holidays and Merry Christmas from our family to all of yours. We love you."She blew a kiss to volunteers after her remarks.
Also FLOTUS is wearing an Oscar de la Renta dress that she first wore on October 31st, per DailyMail.com's ace fashion team.
And that's a wrap. Let me know if you have any questions. Happy holidays!




  