
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Romney Press Shop (857) 288-6390
Boston, MA - Today, Governor Mitt Romney announced that State Senator Kevin Bryant (R-Anderson), a former member of Senator Brownback's South Carolina Campaign Leadership, has endorsed his candidacy for President.
Announcing the endorsement of Senator Bryant, Governor Romney said, "Senator Bryant is a strong voice for conservative principles, both at the Statehouse in Columbia and in the Anderson community that he serves. As a pharmacist and small businessman, Senator Bryant brings real-life experience to the table when it comes to working towards solutions for solving the healthcare crisis and keeping our economy growing. As a Senator, he is a leading advocate for lower taxes, limited government and preserving traditional family values. I'm proud to welcome him to the team."
Senator Bryant will join an already strong Romney for President South Carolina team that includes National Campaign Co-Chair and United States Senator Jim DeMint as well as numerous other leaders across the state.
With today's announcement, Senator Bryant said, "Governor Romney is the only candidate with the experience, values, and vision to solve the problems facing the United States. His experience in the private sector, success turning around the 2002 Olympics and leadership as a Governor make him uniquely qualified to be our next president. I am proud to announce my support for Governor Romney's campaign."
Background On Representative Senator Kevin Bryant:
Senator Kevin Bryant Has Served In The South Carolina Senate Since 2004. During his time in the South Carolina legislature, he has been a strong proponent of lower taxes, smaller government, and protecting traditional American values. Senator Bryant is a seasoned grassroots leader, tripling voter turnout in the 2000 GOP presidential primary as the Chairman of the Anderson County Republican Party. Senator Bryant, along with his father and brothers, manage Bryant Pharmacy and Supply, an independent pharmacy in Anderson. Senator Bryant and his wife, Ann, live in Anderson with their three children. Prior to joining Mitt Romney's South Carolina team, Senator Bryant served on Senator Sam Brownback's South Carolina Presidential Campaign Committee.
  