
    Pool Reports by Scott Bixby, The Daily Beast 



Sent:
Reports:




November 22, 202113:48

FLOTUS Pool Report #1 — White House Christmas Tree background 
Good afternoon from the White House, where it's beginning to look a little like Christmas!
Your pooler has been tested and is waiting to gather for Dr. Biden's presentation of the official White House Christmas Tree, grown in North Carolina by Rusty and Beau Estes, three-time winners of the National Christmas Tree Association's 2021 grand championship. The tree, an eighteen-foot Fraser fir, will be placed in the Blue Room following the first lady's inspection and decorated to suit an as-yet-unrevealed theme for the holiday season.
A few fun facts about the White House Christmas Tree:
– North Carolina is to Christmas trees what Ohio is to astronauts. This will be the thirteenth tree from North Carolina growers to serve as the official White House Christmas tree, nearly twice as many as runners-up Washington and Wisconsin.
– The chandelier in the Blue Room must be temporarily removed to make room for the tree.
– The most popular theme for the White House Christmas Tree is "The Nutcracker Suite," used in 1996, 1990, and 1961. Recent themes have more of a Sarah Rose Cosmetics American Teen Princess Pageant vibe: "America the Beautiful," "The Spirit of America," "American Treasures."
More background, courtesy of the First Lady's office:
Today, the First Lady will participate in the presentation of the official White House Christmas tree for display in the Blue Room of the White House. This is the first event that kicks off the first Biden White House holiday season. Each year, the National Christmas Tree Association hosts the National Christmas Tree Contest and the winner earns the honor of presenting a Christmas tree to the White House. 2021 marks the 56th year of this tradition. This year's 18 ½ foot Fraser fir tree hails from Peak Farms of Jefferson, North Carolina. Rusty and Beau Estes, owners of Peak Farms, are two time National Christmas Tree Association Grand Champions. They previously won this award and provided Fraser fir trees for the White House Blue Room in 2008 and 2012. 2021 marks their third time winning this award.
In honor of all the National Guard families who are activated and spending these holidays apart, the First Lady has invited the Harrell Family (Representing the DC Army National Guard) to join us.
The Estes and Harrell families, as well as the representatives of the National Christmas Tree Association, will receive a tour of the White House and end in the Cross Hall to be greeted by the First Lady. The First Lady and the families will proceed through the North Portico Doors and walk the drive to the carriage. The First Lady will inspect the tree and take photos with Harrell and Estes families.
Rusty Estes is the owner of Peak Farms in Jefferson, NC, and has been in the Christmas tree business since 1979. Rusty has provided Fraser fir Christmas trees for the White House in the past, and had the honor of presenting to First Lady, Mrs. Laura Bush in 2008, and First Lady, Mrs. Michelle Obama in 2012. Beau is the son of Rusty Estes and co-owner of Peak Farms. He graduated from North Carolina State University in 2002 with a degree in turf grass management and horticulture. He's married to Amanda Estes and they have two sons together, Colin and Riley.
Captain Maryanne V. Harrell currently serves as the unit commander for the District of Columbia Army National Guard (DCARNG) Medical Detachment. CPT Harrell commissioned in the U.S. Army on 6 December 2009, joined the DCARNG in 2010, and has served all her years in the National Guard component. CPT Harrell has spent the majority of her military career in the Medical Detachment as the Patient Administration Officer in Charge and the Clinic Officer in Charge. She has also completed a tour in the National Guard Bureau for three years as the Army Medical Department Incentives Program Manager. After her tour, CPT Harrell took command of her unit in October 2020. CPT Harrell's civilian education includes a Bachelor of Arts in Biology from Carson-Newman University. CPT Harrell and husband, Levi, of 10 years have 2 sons (Levi II and Marcus) and 1 daughter (Elliana). Her husband works for the U.S. Department of Agriculture and is a retired First Lieutenant from the DCARNG.



November 22, 202114:43

FLOTUS Pool Report #2 — gathering for White House Christmas Tree presentation 
The expanded pool is gathering for Dr. Biden’s inspection and presentation of the White House Christmas Tree, which will take place in the North Portico of the White House and will be livestreamed here. Your pooler will send color once the presentation is over.



November 22, 202115:24

FLOTUS Pool Report #3 — color from the White House Christmas Tree presentation 
Greeted by a four-piece band playing holiday classics, the White House Christmas Tree was ferried up the driveway to the North Portico on a green carriage, pulled by two draft horses (Clydesdales, to your pooler's eye) and driven by three gentlemen (well, one gentleman and two distinguished-looking boys) in black pork pie hats and matching masks. The horses were decked out in silver sleigh bells and had tiny paper Christmas trees in their braids, and the carriage was festooned with holiday wreaths.
There was a slight mishap and delay when the swingletree* of the carriage came unhitched, but it was reattached successfully before the carriage continued up the drive. The band played "Oh, Christmas Tree" on a soothing loop as this was accomplished.
Dr. Biden, wearing a cranberry-colored coat and a white dress, inspected the tree and was greatly pleased. Asked what she thought of the tree, the first lady told the pool that "it's beautiful — it's magnificent, actually." The first lady then removed a sprig from the tree and handed it to Beau Biden, her young grandson, before inviting a service family to pet the horses.
Before the end of the ceremony, Dr. Biden told the pool that her message for servicemembers in the holiday season was to "be safe and have a happy, healthy holiday."
* Your pooler grew up on a horse ranch.



November 22, 202115:33

FLOTUS Pool Report #3a — horses' names 
Your pooler has been informed that the horses that ferried the White House Christmas Tree up the drive are named Ben and Winston.




  