
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Romney Press Shop (857) 288-6390
Boston, MA – Today, Governor Mitt Romney announced the additions of three Co-Chairs to the Texas Statewide Finance Committee. Retired Chief Justice Thomas Phillips, Allan "Bud" Shivers, and Pete Winstead will join Governor Romney's finance team in Texas to help raise the resources needed to compete statewide.
Announcing these additions, Governor Mitt Romney said, "I am grateful for the support of these Republican leaders. Chief Justice Thomas Phillips, Bud Shivers and Pete Winstead are excellent additions to our strong Texas finance organization. They will not only help fundraise throughout the Lone Star State, but they will also help communicate our message of conservative change in Washington. I am honored to have them join our Texas team."
Retired Chief Justice Thomas Phillips said, "Governor Mitt Romney is the strongest Republican candidate in the field. Governor Romney has the experience, vision and conservative values to lead our country forward as we face this new generation of global challenges. As President, he will take Washington apart and put it back together to make it work better for all Americans. We are proud to support his candidacy."
The complete list of the Romney for President Statewide Finance Committee can be found here. Governor Romney has also received the endorsement of U.S. Representatives Mike Conaway, Kay Granger and Lamar Smith, along with former U.S. Representative Henry Bonilla.
Background On The Texas Statewide Finance Committee:
Thomas R. Phillips Served As Chief Justice Of The Texas Supreme Court From 1988 To 2004. He was initially appointed and then elected and re-elected by the people of Texas four times. A Dallas native, Phillips earned a B.A. from Baylor University and then a J.D. from Harvard Law School, where he was one of Governor Romney's classmates. From 1981 to 1988, he was judge of the 280th District Court in Harris County. He was appointed to the Texas Historical Commission in 2005 by Texas Governor Rick Perry. Since 2005, Phillips has been a partner in the Austin office of the law firm of Baker Botts LLP, concentrating in appellate law and arbitrations.
Allan "Bud" Shivers Is An Austin Businessman. His career includes founding and serving as chairman and board member of a solid waste business, real estate development company, savings and loan company, as well as a farming organization and a mineral royalty business. Shivers served in leadership roles in several state and local organizations including chairmanship of the Texas Chamber of Commerce, Texas Lyceum, Texas Alcoholic Beverage Commission and Shivers Cancer Center. Currently, he is founder and chairman of the Seton Fund, the endowment arm of the Seton Healthcare Network, and board member of TIRR Systems, a rehabilitation healthcare organization.
Pete Winstead Is A Founding Shareholder Of Winstead PC. His early professional career includes the field of federal taxation and related matters and as a former chair of the Section of Taxation, State Bar of Texas. He remains active in advising clients on many corporate and business transactional matters, primarily in a strategic role. In 1997, Pete was appointed by Governor Bush to be the first chair of the Texas Turnpike Authority.
  