
    Yesterday, President Biden hosted an event celebrating commitments to the Talent Pipeline Challenge, which was launched in June. Since then, the Biden-Harris Administration has brought together more than 350 organizations, from almost every state and territory, in the Talent Pipeline Challenge to grow our workforce and do it in an equitable way.
The Bipartisan Infrastructure Law—along with the CHIPS and Science Act, Inflation Reduction Act, and American Rescue Plan—are creating millions of good-paying jobs, including union jobs. The partners in this Challenge will help ensure all Americans have a pathway to learn the skills needed for those jobs, through their tangible commitments to support equitable workforce development focused on three critical sectors: broadband, construction, and electrification.
The Challenge received praise from partners across the board, including employers, unions, education and training providers, states, local governments, Tribes, territories, philanthropic organizations, and other stakeholders:
Communications Workers of America: The Communications Workers of America (CWA) is announcing a slate of new industry and employer partnerships today to support technician training, as all fifty states prepare plans for subsidizing high-speed broadband buildouts under President Biden's "Internet for All" initiative. The announcement comes as CWA headlines a White House event celebrating commitments made under the administration's Talent Pipeline Challenge, a call to action for employers, unions, education and training providers, philanthropic organizations, and state and local leaders to make tangible commitments that support equitable workforce development within the broadband, construction, and electric vehicle sectors. The effort aims to ensure highly skilled and trained workers are ready to meet the demands of implementing the historic Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, which included $65 billion in funding to reinforce and expand the nation's broadband infrastructure.
AT&T: "Connecting all Americans to robust broadband networks requires good policy to address affordability, adoption and access. Building these networks to close the digital divide depends on developing a highly skilled workforce through a diverse range of training efforts," said AT&T CEO John Stankey. "That's why we've joined with Corning to create programs to prepare entry-level high-tech workers, and we also are working with the Communications Workers of America to explore on-the-job training with apprenticeship programs for new and current employees. We believe every American should be connected to the internet, which requires effective public-private partnerships that stimulate investment in underserved communities, voluntarily tackles affordability issues and builds a more skilled workforce in our local communities. We appreciate the Biden Administration's ongoing commitments to further these goals."
United Airlines: United Airlines today announced the launch of Calibrate, an in-house apprenticeship program that will help grow and diversify its pipeline of Aircraft Maintenance Technicians (AMTs). The inaugural class starts next week in Houston as the airline plans to train more than 1,000 people at about a dozen locations by 2026, with the goal of at least half being women or people of color. Calibrate is a 36-month program in which participants "earn and learn" getting paid while completing the full-time certification and training process. The apprenticeship program is a joint effort between United, the International Brotherhood of Teamsters (IBT) and the Federal Aviation.
Teamsters Launch Calibrate Apprenticeship Program: The International Brotherhood of Teamsters and United Airlines proudly announce the launch of Calibrate, an in-house apprenticeship program for non-licensed Teamsters to acquire new skills and become FAA-licensed Airframe and Powerplant Technicians at United. "Employers and unions must be real partners to improve the lives of hardworking people — those workers who embody the union and make their employers so successful," said Teamsters General President Sean M. O'Brien. "Calibrate helps us put this partnership model into practice. This apprenticeship program creates more opportunities for a diverse and inclusive workforce. It also enables workers to gain more seniority in the Teamsters and best showcase our strong union benefits to the next generation of workers."
NN: Skills training is a key part of NN's people strategy. In more than four decades in business, we have trained and upskilled thousands of employees. Our goal within the communities we operate in is to raise the image of manufacturing, create a pipeline for talent, and address key skill shortages. "Skills training is a critical part of being an employer of choice and supporting American manufacturing," said Mr. Buchan. "I believe NN's commitment to talent development is one reason more than 40% of NN's US workforce has been with us more than 10 years."
CSX: Joe Hinrichs Visits White House in Support of Talent Pipeline Challenge. CSX is actively engaged in a White House-led effort to build a pipeline that's critical to the nation's future — a talent pipeline. Since signing the White House Talent Pipeline Challenge Pledge in August, CSX has been meeting with White House officials and federal agencies to advance the initiative designed to strengthen the nation's infrastructure and supply chains by training and hiring skilled, diverse workers. CSX President and Chief Executive Officer Joe Hinrichs attended a Talent Pipeline Challenge event in Washington Nov. 2 to reinforce the company's commitment to the initiative, which aligns with CSX's own hiring and training efforts. "We're proud to be onboard with the White House and the wide range of government, education, training and labor partners who are committed to connecting diverse populations with job opportunities that support the nation's critical infrastructure, from transportation to technology," Hinrichs said. "We're looking forward to developing partnerships that help meet the demand for well-paid, skilled employees to move the freight that drives the U.S. economy."
Lumen: Lumen signed the White House Infrastructure Talent Pipeline Challenge and pledged to grow and care for our workforce by investing in training and development programs. These training programs will enable us to bring fiber broadband to more Americans. Scott Trezise, our chief human resources officer, attended the White House announcement today. On behalf of Lumen, he committed to work with the administration and policymakers on the talent growth and training opportunities that will support our new fiber builds and helps us close the digital divide. We are investing more than $80 million annually to hire and employ nearly 1,000 new workers in support of our fiber broadband expansion program. We are also providing hundreds of in-person, hands-on technical training sessions in support of this effort.
Samsung Austin Semiconductor Talent Pipeline Challenge Statement: Samsung Austin Semiconductor strongly supports the White House Talent Pipeline pledge as it closely aligns with the progress of our efforts in Central Texas. Our company has partnered with the regional educational institutions for more than 26 years. Our new $17B chip manufacturing plant will expand our presence into Williamson County, a neighboring county to our established site in Austin. With this expansion and our commitment to hire GEDs to PhDs, we intend to also increase our engagement with numerous rural school districts to help increase our talent pipeline and promote economic opportunities. These schools have an enrollment of 12,600+ students, of which many are economically-disadvantaged and from diverse backgrounds. We are proud of our long tradition of supporting the communities where we work and live. In addition to our recruiting and hiring practices, we encourage equality in our community by investing in organizations who serve those who need it most. From access to education, scholarship, workforce training, STEM skill development, certifications/credentials, plus other support, Samsung Austin Semiconductor encourages opportunities for everyone to learn, grow and thrive. As a premier and growing employer, for our current -- and future -- employees, we believe that that a creative, diverse and innovative workforce is vital to serving our customer around the world and creating a great place to work. Samsung Austin Semiconductor is proud to support this pledge.
Samsung SDI Talent Pipeline Challenge Statement: As a leading manufacturer of lithium ion batteries in the United States, Samsung SDI is proud to support the White House Talent Pipeline Pledge, which underscores the importance of regional commitments in building up our local communities for today and tomorrow. Recently, Samsung SDI announced a partnership with Stellantis to build a 3.3M square foot battery factory in Kokomo, Indiana with a commitment to employ more than 1,000 people by 2025. In addition to our internal training efforts (which will be robust), Samsung SDI – together with its partners – will further its commitment by engaging with local community colleges and universities, like Ivy Tech Community College in Kokomo, Indiana, to develop and implement a workforce training program, that will educate thousands of workers for career opportunities in the high-tech electric vehicle battery manufacturing field. At Samsung SDI, we remain committed to both short- and long-term investments for the betterment of our local communities across the United States.
Salt Lake County Mayor Jenny Wilson: Salt Lake County joined the White House - USA's Talent Pipeline Challenge to support high-quality job creation to rebuild our nation's infrastructure and supply chains. SLCo launched the WISE program to help low-income and diverse communities launch into high-paying jobs by focusing on how wraparound services are key to people's ability to learn and be successful. I've also proposed in my 2023 budget investment in a pre-apprenticeship program (which is under review for funding by the Salt Lake County Council) to prepare workers for high-paying jobs in in-demand fields such as construction, transportation, manufacturing, and others.
America Achieves: President Biden will announce shortly next steps in the Administration's nationwide call to action for tangible commitments that support equitable workforce development focused on quality infrastructure jobs. One of the commitments highlighted by the White House is the news that America Achieves, the Families and Workers Fund, and the What Works Plus Collaborative have worked together with philanthropic partners to announce more than $70 million in aligned commitments (this includes $50 million in committed funding and a commitment to secure an additional $20 million). These funds will advance the goals of the Talent Pipeline Challenge by helping to ensure a diverse, qualified talent pool for quality infrastructure jobs impacting tens of thousands of underrepresented workers.
Entek Manufacturing: ENTEK, a U.S.-owned manufacturing company headquartered in Lebanon, Oregon that makes state of the art battery separators and manufacturing equipment, continues to showcase their commitment to working with the Biden Administration and Congress to build a robust, U.S. electric vehicle and energy storage battery supply chain. Today, Kimberly Medford, President of ENTEK Manufacturing, participated in an event at the White House honoring the Talent Pipeline Challenge. The Talent Pipeline Challenge supports employer investments in equitable workforce development for domestic infrastructure jobs. ENTEK recognizes the importance of growing quality, well-paying American jobs and having the development mechanisms in place to create a skilled workforce. Developing a local pipeline of skilled workers is crucial to ENTEK's continued growth and success. ENTEK is thankful for the Administration's continued commitment to workforce development and specifically these joint efforts with employers, training providers, and local governments to make sure the American workforce is prepared to meet the demands of infrastructure electrification and battery manufacturing.
National Electrical Contractors Association: Today, the Biden Administration welcomed David Long, CEO of the National Electrical Contractors Association (NECA), to the White House along with other employers, training providers, and state and local government leaders. "This is an initiative we at NECA are proud to be a part of as we look to continuously educate and improve the electrical construction industry," said Mr. Long.
NTCA: The Rural Broadband Association today announced new partnerships with organizations leading efforts to create a 21st century workforce in rural America and focused on helping our country build a better broadband future. The announcement comes as NTCA Chief Executive Officer Shirley Bloomfield joined a White House event highlighting commitments made under the Biden administration's Talent Pipeline Challenge, a call to action for employers, education and training providers and others to support equitable workforce development in critical infrastructure sectors like broadband… At the White House event, splicing technician Jeremy Przybilla of NTCA member CTC in Brainerd, Minn., demonstrated the skill required to ensure fiber cable is handled correctly, as he showed attendees how he uses a fiber splicing tool to cut fiber strands and then test the fiber to ensure the cut was clean.
Bunker Hill Community College: "It is always an honor to be invited to the White House and for the College to be publicly praised by the President of the United States," said BHCC President Pam Eddinger. "It is a testament to the hard work of the educators at Bunker Hill Community College, the commitment of and to our students, and the strength of the partnerships we have forged with businesses, unions, and government to build a more inclusive workforce in our region." At Wednesday's event, the White House recognized the commitments made by more than 350 organizations in 50 states and territories as part of the Infrastructure Talent Pipeline Challenge.
United Association: Plumbers & Gasfitters Local 5 member Tom Buckley, Steamfitters UA Local 602 member Justin Bennett, and Steamfitters UA Local 602 apprentice Tiffany Hodge were at the White House today to show President Joe Biden how UA instructors use the med gas trainer to train apprentices – and what the day to day work of the United Association looks like. As part of the Infrastructure Talent Pipeline Challenge, the United Association continues to work with the Administration to ensure the future of American infrastructure is union-built, and that we are ready to meet the historic moment with a skilled and diverse workforce.
ConnectCTC: We are honored to be invited to the Infrastructure Talent Pipeline Challenge Expo at the @WhiteHouse today! We are excited to work with @CWAUnion to advance fiber broadband to rural Americans. #buildbroadbandwithus #thefutureisfiber #goctc #broadbandinternet
National Skills Coalition: Over the summer, @SkillsCoalition asked for your help in responding to the @WhiteHouse's call for critical partnerships to build a more inclusive #infrastructure workforce through the #TalentPipelineChallenge. Today, we joined @POTUS in an event celebrating 350+ who stepped up!
Business Leaders United: Today, @BLU4WP joined @SkillsCoalition and the @POTUS for an event celebrating over 350 commitments to the #TalentPipelineChallenge, building up the #infrastructure workforce through employer partnerships and skilled jobs.
Tritium: Yesterday, Tritium's Chief People Officer Keith Hutchison was invited to the @WhiteHouse in support of the Infrastructure Talent Pipeline Challenge… Tritium has pledged its commitment to this challenge by partnering with the state, educational institutions, and wrap-around service providers on training apprenticeships, childcare assistance, and ride-share programs for its diverse workforce.
Cirba Solutions: It was our honor to have been invited to The White House to celebrate the Infrastructure Talent Pipeline Challenge. It is an exciting time in the electrification transformation as we support the expanding domestic battery supply chain, bringing hundreds of jobs to local communities while also growing the sustainability sector. Commitments to workforce development by companies across industries helps support a diverse range of opportunities. Funding from areas such as the @DOE and @DOD help continue the growth coast-to-coast and while positioning the US as a technology and manufacturing leader. #batteryrecycling #batteries #sustainability
Construction Skills: Construction Skills was well represented at the White House yesterday as President Biden celebrated new commitments toward equitable workforce development for infrastructure jobs. Commitments made through the Infrastructure Talent Pipeline Challenge will expand equitable pathways into good jobs, boost opportunities for union jobs, and meet critical employer skill needs. Nearly 150 employers, unions, and community based organizations will create or expand pre-apprenticeships, registered apprenticeships and other high quality training programs. #infrastructuretalentpipelinechallenge #cskillsnyc #preapprenticeship #newyorkcity #unionconstructioncareers"
Local 103 IBEW: Local 103 was once again invited to the #WhiteHouse to take part in the Infrastructure Talent Pipeline Challenge! Local 103 representatives were able to highlight 103's #EV charging capabilities as the #IBEW gears up to build our Nation's EV #infrastructure!
Michigan Works!: The Michigan Works! Association and our members joined more than 350 organizations from around the country in signing onto the Infrastructure Talent Pipeline Challenge at the @WhiteHouse!
Sandag: #SANDAG was thrilled to join the @whitehouse Infrastructure Talent Pipeline Challenge to learn how we can support the millions of jobs that are being created in broadband, construction, and electrification (EVs).
Accelerator For America: Our AFA team was proud to be at the White House today along with advisory council members @Scranton_Mayor & @MayorTimKelly, & @SLCoMayor, to hear remarks from @POTUS, recognizing the collective efforts of the White House Infrastructure Talent Pipeline Challenge.
Jobs for the Future (JFF): JFF is eager to support the @WhiteHouse Infrastructure Talent Pipeline Challenge, including by fostering employer commitments to #DEIA policies in registered #apprenticeship programs and skills-based programs in broadband, construction and electrification.
Wisconsin Operating Engineers Skill Improvement & Apprenticeship Fund: WRTP | BIG STEP is proud to be represented at the @WhiteHouse today by President & CEO Lindsay Blumer, who will view #workforce training demonstrations with @POTUS and discuss the #TalentPipelineChallenge.
Freedman Consulting: Pleased to share that our What Works Plus Collaborative is featured by @WhiteHouse #talentpipelinechallege today. Along w/ our partners @AmericaAchieves and @FamiliesWorkers, the team is coordinating $50M in new philanthropic commitments.
Goodwill Advocacy: Goodwill is proud to be a part of the Talent Pipeline Challenge. FACT SHEET: President Biden Celebrates New Commitments toward Equitable Workforce Development for Infrastructure Jobs
UPS: UPS has pledged support of the White House Infrastructure Talent Pipeline Challenge. We are commited to expanding pathways to great careers through our registered apprentice program.
CEBOT: The Council Exchange Board of Trade (CEBOT) is thankful for the White House recognition of CEBOT's work to, "Build a Nation of Producers", through collaborative partnerships, building learning and governing platforms by intermediating consortium based contracts and joint ventures. CEBOT is leveraging over 65,000 U.S. based employers, along with public and private sector partners, to build an innovative talent pipeline from within the nation's most underserved communities. This is critical given the $1.2 Trillion in additional federal and state funding to fund construction, infrastructure and broadband jobs. The culmination of the White House Talent Pipeline Challenge brought together a national network of partners that have committed to train Americans for existing and new jobs that will strengthen the economy at all levels.
Charter: Honored to be recognized by @POTUS for our work developing a more equitable infrastructure workforce. As part of the challenge, we're increasing tuition assistance for our employees to $10,000/year & expanding military recruitment efforts to 3 additional military bases.
Powering Chicago: "Proud fourth-year International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers (IBEW) Local 134 apprentice Alyssa Cruz had the honor of introducing President Joe Biden today at The White House. The President celebrated the progress made by more than 350 organizations across the U.S, as part of the Infrastructure Talent Pipeline Challenge, including more than 10,000 IBEW union electricians achieving EVITP certification!"
Nontraditional Employment for Women (NEW): "Nontraditional Employment for Women (NEW) joined 350 organizations as part of the Infrastructure Talent Pipeline Challenge, a nationwide call to action for employers, unions, education and training providers, states, local governments, Tribes, territories, philanthropic organizations, and other stakeholders to make tangible commitments that support equitable workforce development focused on three critical sectors: broadband, construction, and electrification. Commitments made through the Challenge will expand equitable pathways into good jobs, boost opportunities for union jobs, and meet critical employer skill needs. We are honored to be included in such a monumental moment in history and elated to hear from a Tradeswoman and IBEW Electrician, standing on a stage in the White House, about prosperous future for the unionized construction trades. NEW will continue to prepare, train, and place women in careers in the skilled construction, utility, and maintenance trades, helping women achieve economic independence and a secure future for themselves and their families. At the same time, NEW will continue to provide a pipeline of qualified workers to the industries that build, move, power, green, and maintain New York."
Conference of Minority Transportation Officials: "Wonderful to attend The White House celebration of the Infrastructure Talent Pipeline Challenge where nearly 350 employers, unions, and community-based organizations including COMTO are creating or expanding pre-apprenticeships, registered apprenticeships, and other high-quality training and internship programs. Across modes we all must focus on filling the workforce pipeline to meet the demands of implementing the historic Bipartisan Infrastructure Law and meeting critical staffing needs - preferably with those who represent the communities served!"
Greenwork: It was an honor to represent Greenwork at the White House Celebration of the Infrastructure Talent Pipeline Challenge yesterday! The event celebrated the administration's partnership with employers investing in training, unions committed to the industries of the future, trade schools modernizing their curriculum, and -- most of all -- the heroes of the American economy: skilled tradesmen and tradeswomen. The Talent Pipeline Challenge focuses on three critical sectors, that are funded by the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act: Construction, Electrification (especially of transportation), Broadband. I found the whole experience incredibly encouraging.
Legacy EV: Today, Legacy EV was invited to attend the White House Talent Pipeline Challenge celebration event. We are excited about our commitment to train more automotive techs with hands-on, product agnostic EV education.
KORE Power: Yesterday, our Co-Founder and CEO, Lindsay Gorrill, had the opportunity to attend the White House Talent Pipeline Challenge Celebration. KORE Power is committed to supporting workforce development for the clean energy industry. We will prioritize hiring from the local Native American workforce; partner with local colleges; provide stipends to workers; and invest in community outreach, scholarships, internships, education activities, and more. The future of a robust, reliable domestic supply chain lies in the hands of the next generation of the #cleanenergy workforce.
AS Peoria: "Being a participant in the Talent Pipeline Challenge is an honor! Putting these programs together has been one of my greatest achievements. My team & partners are my backbone and we've seen a ton of success in training a diverse talent pipeline nationally."
Electrical Contractors Association of Chicago: Powering Chicago (IBEW 134/NECA) was invited to a special press conference today at the White House, where IBEW Local 134 fourth year apprentice Alyssa Cruz was invited to introduce the President of the United States. Biden recognized IBEW for their role in the Talent pipeline challenge, to expand the next generation of skilled trades men and women to support the Country's infrastructure growth as well as provide a path for women and youth from underserved communities with a path to a better life.
Sila Nanotechnologies Inc: Our electric future will be powered by workers in the #US. Our CEO, Gene Berdichevsky, joined President Joe Biden and the U.S. Department of Energy to affirm our commitment to deliver new #cleanenergy manufacturing jobs and training to local communities. We're answering the Talent Pipeline Challenge set by the administration. We're forming partnerships with Columbia Basin Technical Skills Center, Big Bend Community College, and other institutions to recruit, train, and develop women, underrepresented candidates, and other local workers for our Moses Lake, WA facility.
Center for Energy Workforce Development (CEWD): CEWD was proud to represent the industry at yesterday's White House Talent Pipeline Challenge event and was pleased to hear President Biden spotlight our collaboration with the National Urban League to expand diversity in the energy workforce.
  