
    Pool Reports by Meryl Kornfield, The Washington Post 



Sent:
Reports:




November 19, 202208:46 ICT

VP travel pool report #1 - rolling
Good morning from Bangkok, where it's a muggy 84 degrees. At 8:44 a.m., the motorcade departed the hotel for the Queen Sirikit National Convention Center for the APEC Leaders Retreat. Your pooler did not see the VP before we left, and likely won't see her at the center, as media must enter through a separate area. Below is today's guidance:
At 9:15 AM ICT, the Vice President will participate in the APEC Leaders Retreat. This retreat at Queen Sirikit National Convention Center will be closed press.
At 3:50 PM ICT, the Vice President will meet with staff and families of U.S. Embassy Thailand and U.S. Consulate General Chiang Mai. This meet and greet at the Anantara Siam Bangkok Hotel will be closed press.
At 5:00 PM ICT, the Vice President will hold a bilateral meeting with Prime Minister Prayut Chan-o-cha of the Kingdom of Thailand to reaffirm and strengthen the U.S.-Thai Alliance and discuss cooperation across a range of issues. This bilateral meeting at Government House of Thailand will have a pool spray at the top.
At 6:15 PM ICT, the Vice President will visit Wat Ratchabophit. This visit will be covered by an expanded pool.



November 19, 202208:58 ICT

VP travel pool report #2 - arrival
The motorcade arrived at Queen Sirikit National Convention Center at 8:53 a.m. As expected, your pooler did not see the Vice President. The pool is heading into the media center.



November 19, 202209:55 ICT

VP travel pool report #3 - Harris/Xi
On background attributed to a WH official: Vice President Kamala Harris today had a brief greet with President Xi Jinping of the People's Republic of China before they entered the Leaders Retreat at the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation Leaders Meeting. The Vice President noted a key message that President Biden emphasized in his November 14 meeting with President Xi: we must maintain open lines of communication to responsibly manage the competition between our countries.



November 19, 202210:48 ICT

VP travel pool report #4 - holding
The pool is holding outside a hall in the conference center, where there is a handover ceremony planned ahead of the United States hosting next year's APEC.



November 19, 202212:42 ICT

VP travel pool report #5 - handover ceremony
The pool and other press were brought into the room where leaders were sitting around tables that formed a large square at 12:10 p.m. The Vice President and PM Chan-o-cha were sitting near a stage erected behind the tables, which were adorned with flowers. PM Chan-o-cha began the handover ceremony with brief remarks in Thai. A colleague kindly translated a quote from his speech: "I'm happy to handover the chairmanship to U.S. We are ready to conduct a seamless cooperation with them." The VP and PM then stood up, walked up to the stage and shook hands. The Thai leader handed over a chalom, a woven bamboo basket that carries goods and is considered a symbol of trade in Thailand. The chalom is the logo for APEC. Leaders around the table then applauded as Harris and Chan-o-cha posed for photos. Your pooler did not see if President Xi applauded. Press were told to leave four minutes after we entered the room.



November 19, 202212:47 ICT

VP travel pool report #5a - handover ceremony
On background attributed to WH official:
At the 2022 Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) Leaders Meeting in Bangkok, the Vice President participated in a handover ceremony and on behalf of the United States formally accepted the hosting of APEC in 2023.
She told leaders that the United States would continue to focus APEC on sustainable economic growth, building on the strong foundation Thailand set in 2022.
More specifically, she said that the United States will use its APEC host year to set new ambitious sustainability goals.
Since almost all APEC members have already committed to net zero or carbon neutrality, she proposed setting a new aggregate target for reducing carbon emissions from the power sector in APEC.
She also proposed that APEC set a goal for reducing methane emissions. In addition she told leaders the United States will introduce a new initiative on a just energy transition.



November 19, 202212:54 ICT

VP travel pool report #6 - rolling
At 12:49 p.m., the motorcade departed the conference center for the hotel. Your pooler caught a quick glimpse of the VP through the window of her SUV as we left.



November 19, 202214:55 ICT

VP travel pool report #7 - afternoon meeting
On Background From a White House Official
This afternoon, the Vice President will meet with staff and families of U.S. Embassy Thailand and U.S. Consulate General Chiang Mai.
The Vice President will be joined by Second Gentleman Douglas Emhoff and Ambassador Robert Godec, U.S. Ambassador to Thailand.



November 19, 202217:08 ICT

VP travel pool report #8 - holding
The pool is holding at the hotel and will soon depart for the Government House, where the VP will hold a bilat with PM Chan-o-cha. A pool spray is expected at the top.



November 19, 202217:19 ICT

VP travel pool report #9 - rolling
At 5:18 p.m., the motorcade left the hotel for the Government House. Your pooler did not see the Vice President.



November 19, 202217:45 ICT

VP travel pool report #10 - arrival
The motorcade arrived at the Government House at 5:39 p.m. The pool did not see the Vice President enter.



November 19, 202218:00 ICT

VP travel pool report #11 - spray
At 5:44 p.m., the pool was ushered into an ornate room of the Government House, where PM Chan-o-cha stood in front a Thai flag and American flag. The VP walked in and shook his hand. The two then stepped into an adjoining room where chairs had been set up in a U-shape. They seemed to exchange pleasantries, but the pool could not make out what they said. They stood in front of a gold-framed painting of the Thai king for photos, both smiling. Press was ushered out at 5:46 p.m. and is now holding during a closed meeting.



November 19, 202218:10 ICT

VP travel pool report #12 - bilat
Bilateral meeting participants, per WH:
U.S. Delegation:- VPOTUS- T.H. Philip Gordon, Assistant to the President and National Security Advisor to the Vice President- T.H. Lorraine Voles, Assistant to the President and Chief of Staff to the Vice President- T.H. Robert Godec, United States Ambassador to Thailand- T.H. Rebecca Lissner, Special Assistant to the President and Deputy National Security Advisor to the Vice President- T.H. Edgard Kagan, Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for East Asia and Oceania, National Security Council- Mr. Dean Lieberman, Special Advisor to the Vice President (backbench)- Mr. David Redlinger, Special Advisor to the Vice President for East Asia and Oceania (backbench)- Ms. Lindsey Zuluaga, Special Advisor to the Vice President for International Economics (backbench)- Ms. Kathryn Paik, Director for Southeast Asia, National Security Council (backbench)- Ms. Melissa Brown, Deputy Assistant Secretary, Bureau of East Asian and Pacific Affairs, U.S. Department of State (backbench)
Thailand Delegation:- Prime Minister Prayut Chan-o-cha, Thailand- H.E. Mr. Don Pramudwinai, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs- H.E. Mr. Distat Hotrakitya, Secretary-General to the Prime Minister- Mr. Sarun Charoensuwan, Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs- Mr. Anucha Burapachaisri, Deputy Secretary-General to the Prime Minister and Acting Government Spokesperson- Mrs. Pornpimol Kanchanalak, Advisor to the Minister of Foreign Affairs- Mr. Chettaphan Maksamphan, Director General of Department of America and South Pacific Affairs (backbench)- Ms. Breeyawan Sarakichpreecha, Assistant Secretary-General to the Prime Minister (backbench)- Lieutenant General Apichat Chaiyadar, Attached to the Prime Minister (backbench)- Ms. Dusita Srichoo, Director of International Affairs Division (backbench)- Mr. Kobboon Sangmanee, Attached to the Secretariat of the Prime Minister (backbench)



November 19, 202218:46 ICT

VP travel pool report #13 - departure
The Vice President has left the bilat with PM Chan-o-cha at 6:44 p.m. The motorcade is now heading to Wat Ratchabophit, a Buddhist temple.



November 19, 202218:57 ICT

VP travel pool report #14 - arrival
The Vice President arrived at the temple at 6:53 p.m. The pool did not see her enter.
On background from a WH Official

On Saturday, November 19th, Vice President Harris will visit Wat Ratchabophit, where she will have an audience with the Supreme Patriarch and later will receive a tour of the Wat by Somdet Phra Mahaweerawong, Secretary to the Supreme Patriarch, and Pramaha Techin, Foreign Affairs Coordinator for the Wat.
Wat Ratchabophit is one of the most highly regarded temples in Thailand. The temple is closely associated with the monarchy. The royal ashes of several previous kings and many minor royals of the Chakri dynasty are interred there, including those of King Bhumibol who reigned for 70 years and died in 2016. Wat Ratachabophit was built and named by King Chulalongkorn in 1869.
Somdet Phra Ariyavangsagatayana, born Amborn Prasatthapong, is the Supreme Patriarch of Thailand and was appointed abott of Wat Ratchabophit in 2017 by King Wachiralongkon. He is the 20th Supreme Patriarch of Thailand.
Participants for audience with the Patriarch:

U.S. Delegation:

VPOTUS
T.H. Phil Gordon, Assistant to the President and National Security Advisor to the Vice President
T.H. Lorraine Voles, Assistant to the President and Chief of Staff to the Vice President
T.H. Robert Godec, United States Ambassador to Thailand
T.H. Rebecca Lissner, Special Assistant to the President and Deputy National Security Advisor to the Vice President
Mr. Dean Lieberman, Special Advisor to the Vice President


Thailand Delegation:

Supreme Patriarch Ariyavongsagatanana, Thailand
Somdet Phra Mahaweerawong, Secretary to the Supreme Patriarch
Phramaha Techin Indatejo, Foreign Affairs Coordinator
Tongthong Chandransu, Special Advisor to the Sangha Supreme Council








November 19, 202219:52 ICT

VP travel pool report #15 - temple
The pool was ushered into the temple where the Vice President was seated before a large gilded statue of the Buddha across from the Supreme Patriarch. He began to read Buddhist scripture to her, and it appeared she might have been reading along. The U.S. delegation was seated along one side of the temple's blue-gray and gold walls. The Thai delegation was seated beside and behind the Supreme Patriarch. The pool was removed shortly after and we waited outside. The temple's tiled rooftops and golden spires sparkled against the cloudy night sky. The ground outside was still wet from an earlier rain, and the damp air made the 90 degree night feel like it was over 100 degrees. After 20 minutes, the Vice President stepped outside with members of the Thai delegation and seemed to admire the temple's walls as she passed through a walkway to a second temple building. Your pooler could not see her enter the temple because we were told to hold against a wall that blocked any view. Official photographers and videographers were allowed to step into the temple while press was held outside and then in a foyer where we could not see the Vice President. When Harris stepped out of the temple, she was accompanied by Tongthong Chandransu, special advisor to the Sangha Supreme Council. Your pooler did not hear all of what he said to her but it seemed to be a story of a rich king, and the punchline made Harris laughed. "If you rich, then someone's richer," he said. She responded, "exactly." The pool was held until they passed. The pool was moved closer to the entrance of the temple, while she and others walked behind the temple. We continued to be held out of earshot as the group walked around, and we were loaded back into the motorcade, which started rolling back to the hotel at 7:49 p.m.



November 19, 202220:14 ICT

VP travel pool report #16 - hotel
The motorcade arrived back at the hotel at 8:09 p.m. There are no more scheduled activities for the night.




  