
    If confirmed, Mark Schneider of the District of Columbia will serve as Director of the Institute of Education Science in the Department of Education for a term of six years. Currently, Dr. Schneider is a vice president and an Institute Fellow at the American Institutes for Research and President of College Measures. From 2005-2008, he served as Commissioner of the National Center for Education Statistics. Dr. Schneider is also a visiting scholar at the American Enterprise Institute and Distinguished Professor Emeritus of political science at the State University of New York, Stony Brook. Dr. Schneider is one of the pioneers in measuring the return on the investment that students and taxpayers make in pursuing higher education. Dr. Schneider has been working on increasing schools' accountability by making data on college productivity and the labor market success of college graduates more publicly available. In 2013, the Chronicle of Higher Education selected him as one of the 10 people who had the most impact on higher education policy that year. Dr. Schneider earned his Ph.D. from the University of North Carolina in Chapel Hill in 1974. He holds a bachelor's degree from Brooklyn College, City University of New York.
-------
President Donald J. Trump Announces Intent to Appoint Nicole Nason to the Department of State
Nicole R. Nason of New York will serve as an Assistant Secretary of State for Administration. Ms. Nason, an attorney and senior government official, has served as a Senior Advisor to the Secretary of State in Washington, D.C. since June 2017. She previously served in Washington, D.C. as Administrator of the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, U.S. Department of Transportation (2006-2008), Assistant Secretary for Government Affairs, U.S. Department of Transportation (2003-2006), Assistant Commissioner, U.S. Customs and Border Protection (2002-2003) and Attorney for the Subcommittee on Crime, U.S. House of Representatives (1995- 1999). From 2014-2017, she founded and ran Project Koe in Connecticut, empowering women and improving health and fitness using traditional Japanese martial arts techniques. Ms. Nason earned a B.A. in Political Science and Government at American University and a J.D. at Case Western Reserve University.
  