
    COUNCIL BLUFFS, IA – Iowans for Hillary today announced the membership of Hillary Clinton's new Pottawattamie Leadership Council. The council includes former and current elected officials, community activists, small business owners, farmers, teachers, and others who support Hillary Clinton for President. Members of the council will act as Hillary's steering committee for Pottawattamie County; recruiting volunteers, assisting with campaign operations, and sharing information on Hillary Clinton's ideas and events throughout the community.
"I am honored to have the support of such a talented group of leaders from Pottawattamie County," said Senator Clinton. "These community leaders have worked in education, agriculture, business, non-profits, and local government, and understand the challenges facing our community. I am proud to be working with members of the Pottawattamie Leadership Council to deliver the change this community and our country needs."
"Hillary Clinton has the strength and experience to deliver the change we need here in Iowa," said Connie Gronstal, Pottawattamie County Coordinator for the Hillary Clinton campaign. "Through the Pottawattamie Leadership Council, the Clinton campaign is reaching out to our community and making sure our voices are heard. Hillary is the most qualified candidate in the race and is ready to hit the ground running from day one of her Presidency."
Members of Hillary Clinton's Pottawattamie Leadership Council include:


Sue Akers, labor activist, OPEIU 277;
Mary Aney, teacher;
Nancy Bleth, former state representative candidate, retired educator;
Kate Cutler, attorney;
Bob Dodder, State Democratic Central Committee member, former pastor;
Ellen Fritz, local AFCSME leader, Retired U.S. Army;
Connie Gronstal, social worker, Iowa Civil Rights Commissioner, FAMILY Program Supervisor at the Loess Hills Area Education Agency;
Kate Gronstal, engineer, local political activist;
Karen Keithley, small business owner;
Dr. Allen Kurland, health care professional;
Bonni Leiserowitz, Pottawattamie County Democrats Membership Committee Chair, retired nurse;
Judy Miller, Pottawattamie County Treasurer;
Joan Minikus, small business owner, educator;
Kim Muta, teacher;
Walt Pyper, former Council Bluffs Mayor and City Councilmember;
Hersch Rodawski; Iowa Western Community College professor;
Georgia Sievers, former Eastern Pottawattamie County Vice Chair for the Pottawattamie County Democrats for 30 years;
Chuck Smith, attorney;
Dawn Trotten, labor activist.

  