
    On the eve of Donald Trump's speech in Columbus, three veteran Ohio political leaders reaffirmed Ohio Gov. John Kasich's popularity and political dominance in the must-win state for Republicans seeking the White House, citing Kasich's record of level-headed leadership that Ohioans value, in contrast to Trump's "divisive" and "inflammatory" approach.
From former U.S. Senator George Voinovich (R-Ohio):
"The next President needs to unify Americans, not divide them. We should be asking candidates what they are for, not what are they against. Donald Trump's rhetoric has been egomaniacal, inflammatory, and divisive. It is not what America needs. We need a leader that talks about what 'we,' not 'I' can do; a leader that will bring us together and that will re-establish America's faith in their government and be respected, again, as the world's leader. We need a leader that treats everyone with dignity and respect, and understands that you can't achieve anything unless you work with the legislature on the national scene and with other world leaders on the international scene. We need a leader that knows we have a symbiotic relationship with others and the more we work together, the better off we all will be.
"That is why I am supporting John Kasich. He is the only candidate that has demonstrated this kind of leadership on the state and national levels. As governor, he worked with the legislature to move Ohio ahead and it earned him a 62 percent approval rating. In Congress he worked with both sides to balance the budget in 1997 and the following four years. We also should be impressed that former U.S. Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott is supporting John Kasich. He is the leader we need to hit the ground running on Day One to lead our nation."
From former Ohio Attorney General and Auditor of State Betty D. Montgomery:
"Ohio is a richly diverse state that seeks balance in its politics. Ohioans are inherently mistrustful of extremes on either end of the political spectrum and we respect and celebrate the diverse backgrounds, traditions and views that make our great state. No presidential candidate should be divisive, bigoted, or sexist. Our candidates are not characters on some coarse reality show seeking ratings at the expense of truth and civility. Our candidates are running to be leader of the free world at a time of great world turmoil and grave danger. As an American, Donald Trump embarrasses me; as an Ohioan, I do not believe he can—nor should—win an election in the must-win state of Ohio against Hillary Clinton."
From Dave Johnson, Ohio Republican Party Central Committeeman, Columbiana County Republican Party Chairman, Northeast Ohio business leader
"If Republicans want to win Ohio and the White House next year, we're going to need a serious candidate that can beat the Clinton machine. John Kasich is that candidate. He has turned Ohio around by balancing budgets, cutting taxes, reducing regulatory burdens on Ohio businesses, embracing new oil and gas development and by being a positive, consensus building leader. Not only did he win 86 of 88 counties in his reelection last year, but his job approval rating is sky-high. Ohio Republicans are smart enough to pick a candidate that can actually win our state and take back the White House and they trust John Kasich's ability to apply conservative ideas to problems and produce the results we need."
  