
    
  Cruz Campaign Releases Web Video That Tells the Truth About Ted Cruz's National Security Record

HOUSTON, Texas – Cruz for President today released an online video featuring Oklahoma Congressman Jim Bridenstine (and current Major in the Oklahoma Air National Guard) who shares the truth about Ted Cruz's record of defending America's national security and points out that Marco Rubio's Gang of Eight bill would have weakened border security and given President Obama authority to expand admission of Syrian refugees.


"I have watched Ted Cruz boldly stand against president Obama's appeasement of those who would threaten our security, from Iran to ISIS to Russia," Congressman Bridenstine says in the video. "Further, I have seen Ted Cruz stand up to both Obama and Marco Rubio, when they joined forces to provide amnesty without border security. The Rubio amnesty bill would have expanded the U.S. Refugee Resettlement Program and given Obama authority to admit even more Syrian refugees."
Bridenstine continues, "Ted Cruz will rebuild our military, take the fight to radical Islamic terrorists, and never apologize for America. He will use every tool we have to win, but he will never betray the very Constitution we are sworn to defend."
The full script may be viewed below.
Script:
I'm Congressman Jim Bridenstine.
Screen text: Congressman Jim Bridenstine R-OK
As a navy pilot, I flew combat missions in Iraq and Afghanistan to protect both Americans and our Constitution.
I just watched a despicable ad from one of Marco Rubio's campaign supporters suggesting that Ted Cruz is weak on security.
Screen text: 'Rubio backer is behind new anti-Cruz ad,' Politico, 11/24/15
I have watched Ted Cruz boldly stand against President Obama's appeasement of those who threaten our security, from Iran to ISIS to Russia.
Further, I have seen Ted Cruz stand up to both Obama and Marco Rubio, when they joined forces to provide amnesty without border security.
Screen text: 'Cruz Opposes Amnesty, Rubio Supported It,' National Review, 11/14/15
The Rubio amnesty bill would have expanded the U.S. Refugee Resettlement Program and given Obama authority to admit even more Syrian refugees.
Screen text: 'Rubio's bill would have opened floodgates to Islamic refugees,' Conservative Review 11/15/15
Ted Cruz will rebuild our military, take the fight to the radical Islamic terrorists, and never apologize for America.
Screen text: 'Ted Cruz' – 'Rebuild Our Military' – 'Defeat Our Enemies' – 'Never Apologize'
He will use every tool we have to win, but he will never betray the very Constitution we are sworn to defend.
Ted Cruz is ready to be our Commander in Chief.
  