
    Chapel Hill, North Carolina – In response to today's report in the Associated Press that generic drug legislation has stalled in Congress in the face of a major lobbying effort by the drug industry, Senator John Edwards released the following statement:
"It is an insult to every American that legislation to increase the availability of affordable generic drugs has been stalled in Congress as a result of lobbyists and the pharmaceutical industry. But while this delay is unacceptable, it shouldn't come as much of a surprise. We all know the system in Washington is broken – our government has been rigged by corporations and their lobbyists and it is failing the American people.
"It's time for our leaders in Washington, beginning with Senator Clinton, to show some real strength and stop defending lobbyists who are blocking America's critical need for more affordable medications. Instead of protecting corporate greed, the Democratic Party needs to stand on principle and lead the way to real reform by refusing, as a party, to take campaign contributions from Washington lobbyists.
"I have never taken a dime from these lobbyists because I know whose side they're on. I renew my challenge for Senator Clinton to join me in returning our government to the American people by saying 'no' to the corrupting influence of money from Washington lobbyists.
"And, to be clear, when I am president, this game where Congress sacrifices the health care interests of the American people for the financial interests of lobbyists will come to end. I'm going to say to members of Congress and members of my administration, including my cabinet: I'm glad that you have health care coverage and your family has health care coverage. But if you don't pass universal health care by July of 2009 – in six months – I'm going to use my power as president to take your health care away from you. There's no excuse for politicians in Washington having health care when the American people don't have health care."
  