
    As the Director of the National Economic Council, Al Hubbard has led the economic policymaking process in my administration for some of the most challenging economic issues confronting our Nation. His work has resulted in creative, sensible policies that have helped Americans continue to compete and prosper and live better lives. In leading the policy process on issues such as taxes, entitlements, health care, energy security, the environment, and trade and investment, Al contributed his own ideas and also worked to ensure that all views were brought to the table and given fair analysis and debate. While many of the policies Al worked to develop are in place today, other policy initiatives, including Social Security reform and health care reform, have laid the foundation for policies I believe will be adopted in the future.
Al came to the White House after spending nearly 30 years as a successful entrepreneur and business leader. He brought to the White House his capacity for hard work and creative thinking and fostered an open, cooperative working environment.
Al has been a valuable leader among my economic advisers for nearly 3 years, and for many more years, he and his family have been friends to Laura and me. Al's presence in the White House will be deeply missed. Laura and I wish Al, his wife Kathy, and his children Will, Sara, and Katie, all the best as they move on to the next chapter in their lives.
I am pleased to announce that Keith Hennessey will succeed Al as Assistant to the President for Economic Policy and Director of the National Economic Council. Keith has been an important member of my White House team for more than 5 years. He has served as the deputy to three Directors of the National Economic Council and has worked on a broad range of economic policy issues. Prior to coming to the White House, Keith worked for Senator Trent Lott and at the Senate Budget Committee. Keith will make an outstanding Director of the NEC, and I look forward to continuing to work with him.
  