
    "You hoped that President Obama would live up to his promise to bring people together to solve big problems but he hasn't and I will." — Mitt Romney
Remarks
Cleveland, Ohio
November 4, 2012
Click Here To Watch Mitt Romney
MITT ROMNEY: "Now, let's see, four years ago let's look at the promises the President made. He promised to do so very much but frankly he fell so very short. He promised to be a post partisan president but he has been most partisan, he has been divisive, blaming, attacking, dividing. By the way, it's not only Republicans that he refused to listen to, he also refused to listen to independent voices. He was going to focus on creating jobs. Instead he focused on Obamacare which killed jobs. He said he was going to cut the deficit in half but then he doubled it. He said that unemployment would now be at 5.2%, and today — actually it was on Friday — we learned that it's 7.9%, almost nine million jobs short of what he promised. You think about this, unemployment today is higher than when Barack Obama took office. He promised that he would put in place a plan to save Medicare and Social Security from insolvency. He didn't. In fact he took $716 billion out of Medicare to pay for his vaunted Obamacare. He said he would lower premiums by the way on your health insurance plan by $2,500 a family by now. Anybody see that reduction? No, as a matter of fact for the average family it's gone up $3,000 a year. Then gasoline, the price of gasoline is now $2,000 per family more per year than when he was elected. One more thing: He said he was willing to work across the aisle on the issues that mattered most to the American people. Do you know that he has not met on the economy or on the budget or on jobs with either Republican leader of the House or Senate since July. Instead of bridging the divide, he has made it wider. Now, so many of you look at the big debates in this country and you don't look at them as a Republican or Democrat but first as an American. You have watched what has happened in this country over the last four years with an independent voice. You hoped that President Obama would live up to his promise to bring people together to solve big problems but he hasn't and I will."
  