
    The President today announced the appointment of the following individuals to be members of the National Productivity Advisory Committee. The President also announced that William E. Simon will serve as Chairman. Roger B. Porter, Counselor to the Secretary of the Treasury, will serve as Executive Secretary.
Lamar Alexander, Governor, State of Tennessee. Lewis M. Branscomb, vice president and chief scientist, IBM Corp., Armonk, N.Y.
Jesse M. Calhoon, president, National Marine Engineers Beneficial Association, AFL-CIO, Washington, D.C.
Nicholas T. Camicia, chairman, president, and chief executive officer, The Pittston Co., Greenwich, Conn.
Justin Dart, chairman and chief executive officer, Dart Industries, Inc., Los Angeles, Calif.
Michael K. Deaver, Assistant to the President and Deputy Chief of Staff, The White House, Washington, D.C.
John T. Dunlop, Lamont University professor, Harvard University, Boston, Mass.
Martin Feldstein, president, National Bureau of Economic Research, Belmont, Mass.
Clifton C. Garvin, Jr., chairman of the board and chief executive officer, Exxon Corp., New York, N.Y.
Harvey A. Goldstein, managing partner, Singer, Lewak, Greenbaum & Goldstein, Los Angeles, Calif.
J. Peter Grace, chairman of the board and chief executive officer, W. R. Grace & Co., New York, N.Y.
C. Jackson Grayson, chairman, American Productivity Center, Houston, Tex.
Robert E. Hall, professor of economics, Stanford University, Palo Alto, Calif.
David T. Kearns, president and chief executive officer, Xerox Corp., Stamford, Conn.
Alfred H. Kingon, editor in chief, Saturday Review Financial World View; vice chairman, Macro Communications, Inc., New York, N.Y.
Charles F. Knight, chairman and chief executive officer, Emerson Electric Go., St. Louis, Mo. William Konyha, president, United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of America, Cleveland, Ohio.
Laurence William Lane, Jr., chairman of the board, Lane Publishing Co.; publisher, Sunset magazine, Menlo Park, Calif.
Paul MacAvoy, professor, Yale School of Organization and Management, New Haven, Conn.
Donald S. MacNaughton, chairman and chief executive officer, Hospital Corporation of America, Nashville, Tenn.
Ruben F. Mettler, chairman and chief executive officer, TBW, Inc., Redondo Beach, Calif., and Cleveland, Ohio.
John J O'Donnell, president, Air Line Pilots Association, Washington, D.C.
Paul H O'Neill vice president, corporate planning, International Paper Co., New Canaan, Conn.
Gerald L. Parsky, partner, Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher, Washington, D.C.
John H. Perkins, president, Continental Illinois National Bank & Trust Co., Chicago, Ill.
Richard F Schubert, vice chairman, Bethlehem Steel, Easton, Pa.
Maurice R. Schurr, international vice president, Local 929, International Brotherhood of Teamsters, Chauffeurs, Warehousemen and Helpers of America, Philadelphia, Pa.
Donald V Seibert, chairman and chief executive officer, J. C. Penney Co., New York, N.Y.
L. William Seidman, vice chairman, Phelps-Dodge Corp., New York, N.Y.
William E. Simon, chairman, Crescent Diversified Ltd., New York, N.Y.
Roger B. Smith, chairman and chief executive officer, General Motors Corp., Detroit, Mich.
Jayne Baker Spain, executive in residence, George Washington University, Washington, D.C.
Arnold R. Weber, president, University of Colorado, Boulder, Colo.
  