
    MANCHESTER, N.H. — Without explanation or reasoning, the DNC has refused to recognize the latest Suffolk University Poll from the Boston Globe, which has Representative Tulsi Gabbard at 6%. Representative Gabbard needs one more poll at 4% in order to qualify for the debate, and this poll would have assured her of a place on the debate stage.
The DNC has recognized the Suffolk University pollster as a qualifying polling firm when they carried out a poll for USA Today. But, without explanation, the DNC refuses to recognize the exact same pollster for New Hampshire. The Boston Globe is one of New Hampshire's largest circulation newspapers and for the DNC to ignore the Boston Globe as a media outlet ignores the people of New Hampshire.
Tulsi Gabbard's campaign responded to the DNC's refusal to recognize the Boston Globe's Suffolk University Poll:
"Again, this is another example of the DNC being arbitrary and inconsistent. New Hampshire is the first in the nation presidential primary, but the DNC has not shown its voters the respect they deserve," Rep. Gabbard said. "The Boston Globe is the largest newspaper in New Hampshire. The pollster the Globe uses is recognized by the DNC for other media outlets, there is no reason the DNC should not recognize this Boston Globe poll, other than adherence to a subjective, non-transparent process where party elites try to dictate to the primary voters.
Our campaign is building momentum in New Hampshire and across the country because we are running an independent-minded, people powered campaign focused on ending regime wars, the new Cold War and arms race and reinvesting in the needs of the American people. Whether it is on the debate stage or a town hall in New Hampshire, our campaign will continue speaking out so we can usher in a 21st century of peace, prosperity and national renewal, and a government that is truly of, by and for the people."
The Gabbard campaign has already obtained three "DNC qualifying polls" and the required 200,000 individual donors to qualify for the December debate. The Boston Globe/Suffolk University poll would qualify Gabbard for the debate stage if the DNC agrees to reverse its decision.
  