
    Hello, everybody! It's good to see you! It's good to see you. Thank you, everybody. Thank you!
So, listen, listen, it is good to be back in North Carolina. And I'm sorry that we can't fit everybody in, but the fire marshals had to cut things off. But I just want to let everybody know, number one, I love you guys and I'm so grateful. I'm so grateful for all the support that you've shown me and Michelle and Sasha and Malia. We're so appreciative of the prayers you've given us these last 8 years. I could not have won North Carolina in '08 without you.
And the fact of the matter is that we only won by about two votes per precinct here in North Carolina. So if anybody tells you your vote doesn't matter, they're lying to you. Your vote matters. And what I'm asking you to do—and I know you'll have a chance to hear what I've got to say in a second—but what I'm asking you to do is just make sure that everybody you know is going out to vote.
You can still early vote, you can still one-stop vote here in North Carolina. I need you not just to vote yourselves, I need you to go out and just nag the heck out of folks who are not voting. And I need you to tell them that Barack, personally, is asking them to vote so that we can make sure that all the progress we've made over these last 8 years is continued, because I can tell you that the alternative is not good.
But Hillary Clinton is not only one of the most qualified people ever to run for the Presidency, but she is going to continue the work that we have done over these last 8 years. And you, North Carolina, can decide this election by making sure everybody votes.
So do not get weary. Don't get complacent. Don't get discouraged. Just go out there and do the work. Just go out there and do the work. And you know I'm working pretty hard. You know, I'm not on the ballot, but justice is on the ballot, and equality is on the ballot. And jobs and childcare and help for young people with student loans, all that is on the ballot.
So get out there and get to work. And if you deliver North Carolina for me, that is the best sendoff you could ever give me and Michelle.
Love you, guys. Thank you.
  