
    Promises a fair deal for America's farmers
COUNCIL BLUFFS, IA-- New Mexico Governor and Democratic Presidential candidate Bill Richardson today unveiled his agriculture policy at the farm of Dave Sieck in Council Bluffs, Iowa.
"We need a new direction for American agriculture," Richardson said. "We must seize the opportunities presented by renewable fuel possibilities, make conservation a real priority, and level the playing field for family farmers and independent producers. It is time that we put fairness back into our farm policy."
Richardson highlighted that Iowa's farmers could be at the forefront of a New Energy Revolution. Experts including the Sierra Club and League of Conservation Voters have called Richardson's energy plan the most aggressive of any candidate running for President.
"For the past fifty years, Iowa has been the world's breadbasket," Richardson said. "In the next fifty years, I believe that Iowa also can be the world's power generator. When I am President, I will offer tax credits for alternative energy production, especially in ethanol, biofuels, and wind. I will fund research into promising cellulosic ethanol and other biofuels. I also will incentivize the creation of an alternative energy infrastructure, including flex-fuel and plug-in pumps at gas stations."
Governor Richardson also promised a fair deal for American farmers.
"We are going to make sure that free markets and fair competition are the rule, not the exception," Richardson said. "I am going to prohibit excessive vertical and horizontal integration. Modern-day monopolies are just as unacceptable as Standard Oil was at the turn of the 20th century. We need real enforcement of our anti-trust laws.
"I am going to sign the Packer Ban. I am going to close the loopholes in the Packers and Stockyards Act. We also have to ensure accurate and complete same-day reporting of all livestock sales. I will put a hard cap of $250,000 on direct subsidy payments to farmers.
"As a nation, we should maximize support for family farms. Most importantly, we need to make the most of our resources."
Additionally, Governor Richardson put forth his vision for creating strong rural economies throughout America.
"We can build a new energy economy and create new, high-quality jobs in rural America-- jobs that never can be outsourced," Richardson said. "Having run a state, I know that you cannot just focus on the problems that the newspapers write about. Every community matters, whether it is big or small, urban or rural. I have worked to solve the problems of all my state's people, not just those in the big cities, and I will bring that experience to the White House.
"I will offer a national rural jobs tax credit to make our rural economy strong. I will ensure that all of rural America has universal broadband access. Tele-work holds enormous promise for new jobs in rural America and will help diversify the economies of our smaller communities."
To read Governor Richardson's speech on agriculture, click here.
To read the executive summary of Governor Richardson's agriculture policy, click here.
To read about Governor Richardson's record on agriculture policy, click here.
  