
    MANCHESTER, N.H. – New Hampshire for Bernie announced its Co-Chairs of NH Veterans for Bernie today with a new video featuring supporters and staff sharing their personal stories as veterans, and discussing Sanders' long-standing support for those who have served our country.
State Representatives Ryan Buchanan (Concord) Merrimack - District 15, and Skip Cleaver (Nashua) Hillsborough - District 35 will serve as NH Veterans for Bernie Co-Chairs. Rep. Buchanan served in the United States Navy, and Rep. Cleaver is a US Marine Corps veteran.
The video follows the recent release of Bernie's Veterans platform, "Honoring Our Commitment to Veterans." The plan is a guarantee that veterans will receive the benefits and services they were promised; including protecting and expanding disability benefits, guaranteeing justice for those who have served and expanding economic, housing, and job opportunities.
Watch the video here.
The platform builds upon Bernie's long-standing commitment to improving veterans' access to timely, high-quality health care. As the former Chair of the Senate Veterans' Affairs Committee, Bernie worked across party lines with the late Sen. John McCain to craft and pass comprehensive legislation to strengthen the VA health care system. That legislation provided critically needed funds to hire more doctors and nurses and improve health care facilities.
The Sanders-McCain Bill was a big step in the right direction, but much more must be done. As President, Bernie will guarantee all veterans in New Hampshire - from Coos County to the Seacoast - will be able to rely on the VA for their primary and specialty care needs; including dental, vision, and hearing care, as well as mental health and suicide prevention services.
Bernie knows too many veterans have to travel long distances for the care they need - including for private-sector care through the MISSION Act, which was supposed to shorten wait- and drive-times but did the opposite. Bernie's plan makes the necessary investments in VA facilities so NH veterans can get the care they need closer to home.
The NH Veterans for Bernie video features New Hampshire Political Director Will Bateson, NH State Representative and Co-Chair for Veterans for Bernie Ryan Buchanan, Campaign Intern Christine Seibert and Field Organizers Darien Mitchell and Jose Villalobos.
  