
    The President today announced the private sector members of the U.S. Presidential economic delegation to Poland, scheduled to visit that country November 28 through December 2 as part of the administration's continuing efforts to assist in Poland's economic reform and restructuring and to support its democratic transition.
Secretary of Agriculture Clayton Yeutter will head the delegation, which will provide the President with recommendations as to the most effective use of U.S. assistance to Poland and assist the Poles in developing their economic restructuring program.
Other senior administration officials leading the delegation are Secretary of Commerce Robert A. Mosbacher; Secretary of Labor Elizabeth H. Dole; and Michael J. Boskin, Chairman of the White House Council of Economic Advisers. The private sector members are:
Thomas Carroll, chief executive officer, International Executive Service Corps, Stamford, CT;
Theodore Cooper, chairman and chief executive officer, Upjohn Corp., Kalamazoo, MI;
William Donaldson, chairman and chief executive officer, Donaldson Enterprises, Inc., New York, NY, and founding dean, Yale Graduate School of Organization and Management;
Robert Galvin, chairman, Motorola Corp., Schumberg, IL;
John Gingrich, president, National Pork Producers Council, Parnell, IA;
Robert Georgine, president, building and construction trades department, American Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations (AFL - CIO), Washington, DC;
Ray Goldberg, professor, Harvard University Graduate School of Business Administration, Boston, MA;
Arnold Harberger, professor, University of Chicago, department of economics, Chicago, IL;
Charles M. Harper, chairman and chief executive officer, CON-AGRA Corp., Omaha, NE;
D. Gale Johnson, professor, University of Chicago, department of economics, Chicago, IL;
Lane Kirkland, president, AFL - CIO, Washington, DC;
Robert Malott, chairman and chief executive officer, Food Marketing Corp., Chicago, IL;
John McGillicuddy, chairman and chief executive officer, Manufacturers Hanover Corp., New York, NY;
Edward Moskal, president, Polish American Congress, Chicago, IL;
Robert Quenon, president, Peabody Coal Corp.; St. Louis, MO;
William Ruckelshaus, chairman and chief executive officer, Browning-Ferris Industries, Houston, TX;
Beurt SerVaas, chairman, SerVaas, Inc., Indianapolis, IN, and chairman, U.S.-Polish Business Council;
Barry Sullivan, chairman and chief executive officer, First National Bank of Chicago, Chicago, IL;
Murray Weidenbaum, director, Center for the Study of American Business, Washington University, St. Louis, MO, and former chairman, White House Council of Economic Advisers;
W.S. White, Jr., chairman and chief executive officer, American Electric Power Co., Inc., Columbus, OH.
  