
    THE PRESIDENT. After all I've read in the news media the last few months, it's a remarkable sight to see so many people who believe in God in the same room without physical combat. [Laughter]
There are two reasons for that, obviously. One is that we have so much for which we can be thankful. The blessings of God, the gifts of God in this country are so overwhelming that it doesn't take just Thanksgiving season to remind us of them and of the things for which we are constantly thankful. And the other one is our common commitment to the principles expressed in the Bible. This is a time for reassessment, in my judgment, for those who have very deep religious convictions, in a nation where freedom of expression is guaranteed as a constitutional right. Sometimes freedom of expression can be abused. Sometimes its free use can cause controversy. Sometimes that controversy is well-advised, sometimes perhaps we might judge it not to be well-advised. But I think at the conclusion of this difficult year, in religious circles—not just political circles—it's a time for those of us who do believe in the Bible, who study it as part of our lives, who look upon it as a foundation for everything we believe, to reassess how we've come together in a spirit of love and mutual understanding and a common commitment to serve Christ, those among us who are Christians, and the Supreme God for us all.
Diversity is an integral part of life, in a democracy in particular. Diversity is not something of which we need to be afraid. Our Nation has grown strong, not in spite of it, but perhaps because of it, and the pluralistic elements of our society in every respect give it strength.
I don't know what would happen if there was complete homogeneity among religious believers, whether we would have a stronger religious community or not. I'm not qualified to judge. But the point I'm making is that we need not fear debate, exploration, or argument.
I remember that one of the things Arnold Toynbee said was that religion is a search for truth about man's existence and his relationship to God. And he went on to say that when we stop searching, that we become like the Pharisee who is proud of being superior and not like the publican who said, "Lord have mercy on me, a sinner." So, as we approach the future, I think it's good for us to recognize the need for diversity and the search through God for a common ground on which we can serve Him best and enhance His kingdom on Earth.
I'm very grateful to be President of a great nation where deep religious belief is an integral part of the fabric of our society. And I hope that we can put aside the condemnation of one another and the exaltation of ourselves, the belief that we are superior, the Pharisaic attitude, and through humility and a recommitment to compassion and love can heal the wounds that have concerned us all this year.
I'd like to say that I'm very grateful to be part of this National Bible Week. It's a development in our national life that reminds us of the things that I've described, plus many others that I haven't mentioned. And it's an honor for me to introduce to you now the chairman of National Bible Week, Mr. Howard Kauffmann, who I will ask to come to the stage for some comments.
MR. KAUFFMANN. Thank you very much, Mr. President. It is indeed a privilege to be here this afternoon. I reckon that few, if any, Americans could be invited into this house without feeling a sense of awe, and certainly nobody in my line of work could. So, I went to my favorite book for guidance and recalled something that Paul wrote to the Corinthians-that God loves a cheerful giver. And that helped me put things back into perspective.
From all over this country, we are getting stories about the success of the 40th annual interfaith National Bible Week. More clubs and organizations are taking part than ever before in rediscovering the inexhaustible riches that we find in the Scriptures. Churches and synagogues, the Boy Scouts, Kiwanis groups, libraries and bookstores, in labor unions and in business—all are participating this year in much greater numbers than ever before.
In Amarillo, Texas, for example, folks are taking turns in a televised reading of the entire Bible, from Genesis right through Revelations. And in Boston, a similar Bible-reading marathon is underway right at this moment.
Mr. President, your message in support of the importance of National Bible Week has been a great boost to our campaign, and we thank you for focusing attention on the Good Book and how it can help guide us in these complex times. And we'd like to express our appreciation for the example you have set, as a layman who knows and uses his Bible, by presenting you with a very special version. This is the new Washburn College Bible. Obviously, it's not the pocket-sized edition. [Laughter]
It contains what many consider to be the most important change in Bible design since Gutenberg. Every page, in fact every line was redesigned to enhance the readability and the poetic qualities of this greatest of all books. And this monumental task took 10 years of work by the renowned graphic designer Bradbury Thompson, who I believe is scheduled to be here today. And then this work has been further enhanced by reproductions of religious art masterpieces chosen by Carter Brown, the Director of the National Gallery of Art.
We trust that you'll enjoy this new edition as well as you have the traditional manuscripts. Day after tomorrow, all of us will pause and give thanks for all that we have received. So this is truly a most appropriate time for us all to reflect on the value of the Bible to us.
Thank you, Mr. and Mrs. Carter, for inviting us today.
THE PRESIDENT. This gives Rosalynn and me something to do the next few months. [Laughter] Well, I want to thank Chairman Robinson1 and Howard Kauffmann for this gift. Is Bradbury Thompson here? Professor Thompson—at Yale, I believe. Stand up. Come here. Come on up. [Applause] Professor Thompson, come on up.
1Gilbert Robinson, vice president, National Laymen's Bible Committee, Inc.
Bradbury Thompson, the noted designer, spent 10 years working on the new format for the Bible, and as you know, J. Carter Brown—I don't believe J. Carter Brown, my cousin, is here— [laughter] but I think this kind of dedication to a new and exciting presentation of God's word is very exciting to us all.
And now I'd like to ask Clamma Dale, one of our favorite and most brilliant singers and artists in this Nation, to close our program here with selections. She's been here before at a state dinner, and I was very excited today earlier, to find that she was going to come and give us a rendition. Clam, I'll let you introduce your own selection. Would you like to do that? Thank you very much. She's not only a delightful and exciting singer, but also very beautiful, as you can see.
  