
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
November 16
The President had a telephone conversation with President Nelson Mandela of South Africa concerning the situation in Zaire.
November 17
In the afternoon, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister John Howard of Australia concerning reentry of the failed Russian Mars space probe with a predicted impact point in east central Australia.
November 18
In the afternoon, the President and Hillary Clinton traveled from Honolulu, HI, to Sydney, Australia, arriving the following day.
The President declared an emergency in Hawaii and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by severe storms and flooding on November 5 and continuing.
November 19
The President announced his intention to appoint Marc D. Guthrie to the Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board.
The President declared a major disaster in New Jersey and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by severe storms and flooding October 18-23.
The President declared a major disaster in New York and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by severe storms and flooding October 19-20.
The President declared an emergency in Rhode Island and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by a water main break on November 18.
November 20
In the morning, the President and Hillary Clinton traveled to Canberra, Australia.
Later, the President met with Governor General Sir William Deane of Australia in Government House. He then met with Prime Minister John Howard in Parliament House.
In the afternoon, the President met with Member of Parliament and opposition leader Kim Beazley in Parliament House. In the evening, the President and Hillary Clinton returned to Sydney, where they attended a dinner and harbor cruise aboard the MV Aussie Legend.
November 21
In the evening, the President and Hillary Clinton traveled to Port Douglas, Australia.
The White House announced that Lanny J. Davis will join the White House Counsel's office as Special Counsel, effective December 9, to serve as press spokesman on certain legal issues, including those relating to the Whitewater and Travel Office investigations and to recent questions regarding campaign contributions.
The President declared an emergency in Puerto Rico and ordered Federal aid to supplement Commonwealth and local recovery efforts in the area affected by a gas leak explosion on November 21.
The White House announced that the President invited President Eduardo Frei of Chile to the White House for a state visit on February 26.
November 22
In the afternoon, the President and Hillary Clinton visited the Great Barrier Reef off the coast of Queensland, Australia. They returned to Port Douglas in the evening.
  