
    Pool Reports by Courtney Subramanian, USA Today



Sent:
Reports:




 November 2, 2020 09:03

 Out-of-town pool report #1: Holding at Doral 
Good morning from a breezy and overcast Doral, where we're awaiting POTUS to kick off day two of his campaign battleground blitz. One day until Election Day.
Your pooler did receive a Covid test this morning before we arrived.
It's currently 75 degrees here. We're working our way from warm to colder climates today.
Here's the rally schedule for today:* Fayetteville, NC* Avoca, PA* Traverse City, MI* Kenosha, WI* Grand Rapids, MI
And back to DC tonight at 1:30 AM.
We've cleared security and are holding outside the entrance. POTUS is due to depart Doral at 9:30AM. Please reach out with any questions. 


 November 2, 2020 09:44

 Out-of-town pool report #2 - Motorcade to Doral 
We are rolling for Miami International Airport at 9:42 AM.
Pool did not see POTUS emerge from Doral from our vantage point in the press van, but did hear some cheering and loud chants of "four more years!" shortly before we left.
We are headed to Fayetteville, NC, where POTUS is scheduled to deliver remarks at campaign rally no. 1 at the Fayetteville Regional Airport at 11:45 AM. 


 November 2, 2020 09:58

 Out-of-town pool report #3 - Wheels up to NC 
POTUS climbed out of the Beast at 9:56AM
He was wearing a dark overcoat and a red tie. He waved to press but did not stop to talk.
Mark Meadows, Jared Kushner, Hope Hicks, Kayleigh McEnany, Ronna McDaniel, Robert O'Brien, Stephen Miller and Bill Stepien were spotted boarding.
We are now boarding for Fayetteville at 9:58AM. A reminder we're on the smaller plane today so service is limited. 


 November 2, 2020 11:51

 Out-of-town pool report #4 - Fayetteville arrival 
AF1 was wheels down at 11:40 AM.
The one hour and forty five-minute flight was largely uneventful. Stephen Miller made a couple of appearances at the back of the plane but did not speak to reporters. We experienced some turbulence descending into NC.
We're walking into the rally site now and did not lay eyes on POTUS deplaning. Throngs of supporters are awaiting the president as a giant American flag suspended from two cranes hangs above the crowd.
"We are the Champions" is now playing.
He's due to deliver remarks shortly. The rally will be carried live and l'll send any notable color. 


 November 2, 2020 12:03

 Out-of-town pool report #5 - Fayetteville rally begins 
POTUS took the stage at 11:53 AM and began speaking at 11:54 AM – running only about 10 minutes behind as we try to stay on schedule for five rallies today. POTUS is wearing his signature MAGA hat, a black overcoat and leather gloves again today.
"We have five of these today – five. We have some big ones," POTUS says as the crowds breaks out into a chant of "We love you!"
It's 52 degrees and sunny here in Fayetteville.
He's now dismissing national polls, which continue to show him trailing Biden.
You can stream it here: https://www.c-span.org/video/?477683-1/president-trump-holds-rally-fayet... 


 November 2, 2020 13:02

 Out-of-town pool report #6- Fayetteville rally ends 
POTUS wrapped his remarks at 1 PM for a total of 64 minutes. He aired his laundry list of grievances about polling, Biden, Hillary Clinton, negative stories about him trending on Twitter, the media, Jerry Nadler, the Russia investigation and social media.
He said he was under a "fake investigation" by a lot of "fake people" for the first two-and-a-half years.
"If I didn't have social media, I wouldn't be here," Trump said. "It's the only way I could defend myself."
He complained that media organizations are not reporting allegations about Hunter Biden (which is incorrect).
"We don't have freedom of the press. We probably haven't had it for a long time," he said. "We have suppression by the press."
POTUS remarked about the crowd size being more than 2,500 but it appears there are around a few thousand. The crowd is full of red, "Make America Great Again" hats and most of the crowd is unmasked, although most of the people on the riser behind the president are wearing masks.
Pool is being shuttled out of the filing area as the president wraps up.
Dan Scavino was spotted waiting forever POTUS. 


 November 2, 2020 13:05

 Out-of-town pool report #7: Wheels up for PA 
POTUS boarded AF1 at 1:03 PM. He waved to press as he walked back to the plane. He didn't stop to talk to reporters.
POTUS ascended the steps and turned back to the rally to wave one last time to his supporters
We are now boarding for Wilkes-Barre Scranton International Airport. 


 November 2, 2020 14:36

 Out-of-town pool report #8 - Scranton arrival 
AF1 was wheels up at 1:13 PM from Fayetteville and wheels down at Wilkes-Barre Scranton International Airport at 2:24 PM.
Note on last rally: Ronna McDaniel and Kayleigh McEnany danced along to the YMCA at the conclusion of the event.
Pool was treated to a printout of a tweet from Washington Examiner'a Byron York about a "hidden Trump voter" in the must-win state of Pennsylvania.
The rally was due to begin at 2:15 PM so we're running slightly behind schedule. Rally remarks are being carried live. 


 November 2, 2020 15:57

 Out-of-town pool report #9 - Avoca rally 
POTUS took the stage at 2:39 PM and wrapped at 3:55 PM.
He began by tossing Make America Great Again hats into the crowd.
"This does not look like a second place finish," he told the crowd. POTUS said he watched "Sleepy Joe" and said he was "unable to fill up his circles.
A few notable lines below. Please check against the transcript."I say to women of the suburbs, love me women of the suburbs, love me," he tells the crowd in Scranton.There's two giant American flags suspended from two cranes hanging over the peripheral risers. About 30 smaller flags line the riser behind the stage. Two large television screens with the campaign motto, "The best is yet to come!," are situated on both sides of the flag-lined riser. It's a chilly 43 degrees here in Avoca but the crowd is enthralled."Boy, you are an enthusiastic bunch," he said to huge cheers.He knocked the SCOTUS decision on PA, said "they made a dangerous situation" here. "I mean dangerous physically," he added. They did a "very very bad thing for this nation."He again complained about Twitter and allegations of social media bias as well as Hillary Clinton."I see it with Twitter trending. I know what trending is better than anybody in the world," he said. "I've been trending my whole life. From the day I was born, I've been trending."At one point, the crowd began chanting "Lock Wolf up!" after Trump said their governor needed to open up the state.POTUS also claimed that foreign leaders called him to express surprise that Biden was his challenger. He also knocked Biden for promoting that he's from Scranton, PA."I went to school in Pennsylvania. I don't make the biggest deal out it," he said.He pointed out that Nigel Farage is in the audience in Pennsylvania. "It's an honor to have you, Mr. Brexit."He also gave a shout out to Jared Kushner. "Jared usually likes to stay on the plane and work," he said.Eric Trump was also spotted.Pool was moved before POTUS finished. 


 November 2, 2020 16:01

 Out-of-town pool report #10 - PA departure for Michigan 
POTUS boarded AF1 at 3:59PM.
Eric Trump was spotted boarding the plane in a MAGA hat. Pool is now boarding.
Next up: rally no. 3 at Cherry Capital Airport in Traverse City, Michigan, where it's 47 degrees. 


 November 2, 2020 17:49

 Out-of-town pool report #11: Traverse City arrival 
Air Force One was wheels up from Pennsylvania at 4:09 PM and touched down at Cherry Capital Airport in Traverse City, Michigan, at 5:36 PM.
Your pooler could see snow on the ground as we began descending into Michigan.
The plane ride was uneventful but pool did spot golf on the television screen in the main cabin earlier in the flight.
POTUS is due to give remarks here at the airport for his third rally of the day and his first of two rallies in Michigan tonight. Vice President Pence, Second Lady Karen Pence and their daughter Charlotte Pence are expected to join POTUS for this rally.
The event will be livestreamed but your pooler will send along any notable details.
Pool received another printed out tweet after boarding AF1 in Scranton (see below): 


 November 2, 2020 17:56

 Out-of-town pool report #12 - Rally no. 3 begins 
It's a beautiful sherbet-colored sunset here in Traverse City, Mich. The crowd began to chant "Trump! Trump! Trump" just as POTUS was introduced at 5:49 pm.
He was joined on stage with Vice President Pence as "God Bless the USA" finished. POTUS began speaking at 5:53 PM.
As a reminder, you can stream the rally here: https://www.c-span.org/video/?477685-1/president-trump-vice-president-pe... 


 November 2, 2020 19:11

 Out-of-town pool report #13 - Traverse City rally ends 
POTUS recycled a lot of material from his previous rallies over the last two days. He wrapped his remarks at 7:09 PM for a total of 76 minutes.
Here's a few remarks from the event. Please check against the transcript.
He took a shot at Sen. Mitt Romney for his impeachment vote against him."He wished he didn't do it, I'll tell you," he said.
Says the "biggest loser will be the fake news media" if he loses."You know their ratings are through the roof, through the roof. The NFL is doing very badly you know why? Everyone's watching politics because they find politics to be much rougher than as much dirtier and more disgusting," he said.
He's again complaining about the Russia investigation and said he was "under siege."
"He gets more time on Fox," POTUS says of Biden. "I've never seen anybody on Fox so much…they have everybody on Fox. They have all enemies on Fox. I think it's crazy," he said. He then mocked Biden for wearing aviator sunglasses, saying "they're a little too small," he said. "He wants to look like Tom Cruise from a long time ago."
He again insisted that a vaccine would be mass distributed in a few weeks despite his own health experts saying a vaccine likely won't be widely available until mid-2021. He said "we're going to protect our senior citizens" but added that no one will be forced to get the vaccine.
GOP Senate candidate John James briefly took the stage to fire up the crowd.
POTUS then began regaling the crowd with the night he won in 2016 and how he chose Ronna McDaniel to lead the RNC. McDaniel took the stage: "lightning struck four years ago and we blew the minds of the media and the world when we delivered Michigan for President Trump. Are we ready for lightning to strike twice?" she asked.
Hours before Election Day, POTUS recalled states being called for him in 2016: "I think we're going to duplicate," he said. "I don't know if you ever surpass something like that but we're going to at least duplicate it."
Pool was moved before POTUS finished.
I've included a better shot of the crowd tonight. There's a hangar to the right, just out of frame. 


 November 2, 2020 19:15

 Out-of-town pool report #14- Departure for Kenosha 
POTUS motorcades from the rally to AF1. He waved again to press before climbing the steps of AF1 for the third time today at 7:14 PM.
Next up: a short flight to General Mitchell International Airport in Milwaukee, WI., where we'll motorcade to Kenosha for #4.
Pool is boarding now. 


 November 2, 2020 20:06

 Out-of-town pool report #15 - Arrival in Milwaukee 
AF1 was wheels down at General Mitchell International Airport in Milwaukee at 6:55 PM Central.
Pool is bracing for more chilly weather in Kenosha, where we'll hear POTUS speak at his fourth rally of the day. We have a 30-minute motorcade to Kenosha Regional Airport and we're running about 40 minutes behind schedule.
Another printed out tweet awaited pool when we returned to the plane in Traverse City. This one came from RNC Chairwoman Ronna McDaniel (see below) 


 November 2, 2020 20:20

 Out-of-town pool report #16: Motorcarde to Kenosha 
POTUS deplaned at 7:11PM.
He spoke to the press for 5 minutes. "it's been an amazing day, an amazing two days."Calls SCOTUS decision on PA dangerous. "It's a mistake. It allows cheating," he said.
"Totally opens up cheating in Pennsylvania."
Are you nervous? "Well I've been here before, I think we're in a much stronger position than before."
POTUS said he will go to the campaign headquarters in Virginia tomorrow.
He's again talking about boat and tractor parades by supporters. "I think you'll see all those people voting."
"I'm very concerned about Pennsylvania. Philadelphia is know for bad things happening," he says when asked if it's going to be a long night.
"I hope the Supreme Court has the wisdom to change it," he says. Said they just need to look at the commentators on television.
Continues to talk about crowd size compared to Joe Biden's events, which are purposely limited out of covid concerns.
As you probably have seen, POTUS tweeted about the SCOTUS Pennsylvania decision before he deplaned.
According to another tweet, he'll be joined by Corey Lewandowski, Reince Priebus, David Bossie and Tiffany Trump in Kenosha.
https://mobile.twitter.com/CLewandowski_/status/1323410841811767297
It's 48 degrees here in Milwaukee. We're rolling at 7:19 PM. 


 November 2, 2020 20:54

 Out-of-town pool report #17: Kenosha arrival 
?Motorcade arrived at Kenosha Regional Airport at 7:54 PM after a 33-minute ride.
We're running about 50 minutes behind schedule.
On the president's comments at the Milwaukee airport:As always please check the transcript as it was difficult to hear under the wing.
On the question of "are you nervous? The quote is: "Well I've been here before, I think we're in a much stronger position than *four years ago.*"
POTUS is due to speak shortly. His remarks are being carried live. 


 November 2, 2020 22:21

 Out-of-town pool report #18: Kenosha rally wraps 
?POTUS took the stage at 8:00 PM CT and concluded his remarks at 9:14 PM CT.
Pool was ushered out of the filing area and into the vans before the president finished.
He seemed to have a few issues with the microphone, which prompted cheers of "Turn it up! Turn it up!" and then "Four more year! Four more years!"
"And we're supposed to pay these people, right?" he quipped. He asked the crowd which audio they preferred."I'm always saying, I want a perfect mic," he said.
Prior to the technical difficulties, POTUS mentions that it was his "pleasure" to visit Kenosha in September. "You were in the news, right? You were in the news," referring to the civil unrest that broke out in the aftermath of the shooting of Jacob Blake.
He's now on to attacks on Biden. "Could he really win, are we serious about this?" he asks. The crowd roars back with a resounding "no!"
A staffer came on stage to try and fix the mic issue. POTUS said he won't pay the bill because of the technical difficulties. "I don't like to pay bills when people do a bad job," he said before relenting that he would because the company is Kenosha-based. "They come from Kenosha so I'm going to pay the bill anyway. What the hell."
POTUS is now holding a mic instead of having one positioned on the lectern."Can you actually hear me?" he asks. "Because it's the worst microphone I've ever used in my life."
The crowd at one point begins chanting, "Save Illinois!"(FWIW the Illinoi border is about 20 miles southwest of Kenosha).
POTUS recognized his son, Eric, and his wife Lara Trump, who serves as a senior campaign official. Eric and Lara came up on stage and Lara delivered brief remarks about securing four more years.
All the Trump children are in attendance. Tiffany, Don Jr., Ivanka and Jared Kushner and Kimberly Guilfoyle were in the crowd. Pool also saw Sarah Sanders and Ronna McDaniel.
POTUS pointed out Reince Priebus, his former chief of staff. Said it took him years to pronounce his name properly but he's a "fantastic person."He also recognized state GOP chair Andrew Hitt, who he said was doing a nice job but if he doesn't win he would be "fired immediately."
He then moved on to his family: Don Jr. takes the stage to fire up supporters before Jared ("he's doing peace in the Middle East"), Ivanka and Tiffany all join on stage. Ivanka delivered remarks for the third time at one her father's rallies over the last two days.
POTUS: "Jared would you like to say something about 'peace in the Middle East?'"Jared responds: "I would just say in Washington, if the things that the politicians were talking about were easy they would have been done a long time ago. But it took a leader like President Trump to come in and shake things up a little bit, but we've seen things get done that we never imagined happen."
He also noted Corey Lewandowski and David Bossieare in the audience. Stand up, he says, "we don't have to hear from them, the mic doesn't work anyway so don't worry about."
We're rolling for Milwaukee at 9:20 PM. Next up: The fifth and final rally in Grand Rapids, Michigan, where he ended his campaign four years ago. 


 November 2, 2020 23:05

 Out-of-town pool report #19: Departure for Grand Rapids 
?Pool has been informed there's no internet at all at the Grand Rapids rally site. Your pooler will do her best to send reports when she can.
We arrived back at General Mitchell International Airport in Milwaukee at 9:55PM.
Your pooler did not lay eyes on POTUS before he boarded AF1 as we hurry to the fifth and final rally.
We've switched to the bigger plane for the final two legs (tail number 28000).
Pool spotted Jason Miller boarding the flight. He said he joined the trip this morning.
Fox News is on and carrying Pence's speech in Grand Rapids. AF1 is wheels up at 10:05 PM CT. 


 November 2, 2020 23:47

 Out-of-town pool report #20 - Grand Rapids arrival 
?AF1 was wheels down at the Gerald R. Ford International Airport in Grand Rapids, Michigan, at 11:33 PM. It's 45 degrees here in Michigan and pool has been through several rounds of hand-warmers.
Pool hustled into a van and did not see POTUS disembark. We will be motorcading to the rally site about five minutes away.
POTUS was due to speak an hour ago at 10:30 PM, but it looks like his speech will spill past midnight as it did in 2016 (he took the stage then at 12:30 AM four years ago).
As a reminder the president's final rally before Election Day will be carried live. 


 November 3, 2020 00:02

 Out-of-town pool report #21 - Grand Rapids rally begins 
?POTUS took the stage at 11: 56 PM.
Just one screen at this rally. It's a dense crowd of thousands here in Michigan but there's an airport hangar that's mostly empty in the back of the venue.
POTUS was joined by Pence on stage before he began his remarks by recalling his rally her four years ago on the eve of the election. 


 November 3, 2020 01:20

 Out-of-town pool report #22 - Grand Rapids rally ends 
?POTUS wrapped his remarks at 1:13 AM for a total of 77 minutes. The mic was working this time.
No giant flag suspended by cranes but about 15 smaller ones lined the top of the risers. The crowd thinned out near the press pen at the back of the rally as POTUS approached the hour mark.
Please check these quotes against the transcript.
"There's a lot of spirit here," POTUS said as the crowd cheered.
POTUS recognizes his children, who joined us on the the trip over from Kenosha. "No matter what happens tomorrow I'm very proud of you all," he said. "But if you don't win I'll never speak to you again."
He returned to his typical remarks attacking Obama and Biden.
POTUS again reflect on his life before politics - "I had a nice life" - before declaring that running was the "greatest decision I ever made."
He calls Biden a "glad-hander. Not a smart guy."He questioned why Biden chose Sen. Kamala Harris (who's first name he continues to mispronounce).
"Politics is a strange business," he said.
He returned to his riff on suburban women, insisting that he'll do even better than he did in 2016 with the crucial voting bloc.
"This is a poll," POTUS said of his crowd in Grand Rapids. "This is not the crowd of somebody who's going to lose this state, " he said.
Complains of being hit on all sides. "Let's impeach him for having a perfect conversation with the president of Ukraine," he said.
"I don't want to act like a complainer but it's a totally rigged deal," he said while complaining of what he claims is social media bias.
"What a disaster, I can't believe this is happening,"Trump says of running against Biden, calling his candidacy a "fluke."
"It puts great pressure on me running against a guy like this," he said. "Can you imagine the concept of losing to this guy?"
He calls out Ted Nugent and, "one of the great superstars of the world," Lil' Pimp.
POTUS said Biden's refugee admissions plan "would overwhelm your communities and turn Michigan, Minnesota, Wisconsin and the entire Midwest into a virtual refugee camp."
Your bleary-eyed pooler was moved into the press van before POTUS finished. We are now rolling for the short ride back to AF1. 


 November 3, 2020 01:32

 Out-of-town pool report #23 - wheels up for JBA 
?POTUS boarded AF1 before pool was able to exit the press van but your pooler did spot Tiffany and Lara Trump posing for a picture together before they boarded at the rear entrance.
That wraps this final campaign swing. Happy Election Day, folks.
We're wheels up for JBA at 1:32 AM. 



  