
    Pool Reports by Debra Saunders, Las Vegas Review-Journal



Sent:
Reports:




 November 1, 2020 08:01

 In-Town Pool Report - Handing off to Out-Of-Town Pool 
?Good morning, all.
It's a beautiful day in the neighborhood.
In-Town Pool is handing off to Out of Town Pool. 




Pool Reports by Courtney Subramanian, USA Today



Sent:
Reports:




 November 1, 2020 08:33

 Out-of-town pool #1 - Motorcade to JBA 
?Good morning,
I'll be your pooler for a two-day sprint of campaign rallies in the final push to Election Day. Your pooler did receive a COVID-19 test this morning.
Here's the schedule for today:* Washington, MI* Dubuque, IA* Hickory, NC* Rome, GA* Opa-locka, FL
After a flurry of tweets this morning, POTUS climbed into the Beast at 8:32 a.m.
Pool spotted Kayleigh McEnany from afar but could not see who else joined POTUS today.
We are motorcading to JBA today and rolling at 8:33 a.m.
A reminder that today's rallies will be televised but I'll send any notable color from the scene. Please reach out with any questions. 


 November 1, 2020 09:00

 Out-of-town pool report #2 - AF1 departure 
?The motorcade arrived at JBA at 8:57 a.m.
POTUS didn't not stop to speak to press before boarding beneath an umbrella at 8:58. Pool spotted Ivanka, Jared Kushner and Stephen Miller.
Please note we're on the smaller plane today (90016) so with that comes the usual caveat about cell service. We are boarding at 8:59 a.m. 


 November 1, 2020 10:30

 Out-of-town pool report #3 - Waterford Township arrival 
?AF1 was wheels up at 9:11 a.m. and wheels down at 10:16 a.m. at Oakland County International Airport in Waterford Township, MI.
We did not have any visitors to the back of the plane during the flight but co-pooler Emily Goodin spotted Mark Meadows on board. Hope Hicks, Bill Stepien, Robert O'Brien, Jared Kushner and Ivanka were also spotted deplaning.
POTUS deplaned at 10:26 am in a windy and rainy Waterford. He did not take questions bu told reporters "it's a little tough out here" as he gripped an umbrella. He climbed into the Beast at 10:27 a.m.
Pool has been loaded into the press vans and we're rolling at 10:29 am for Michigan Sports Stars Park in Washington, MI., where POTUS will kick off his first of five rallies today. 


 November 1, 2020 12:32

 Out-of-town pool report #4 - Michigan rally arrival 
The motorcade arrived at Michigan Sports Stars Park in Washington, MI, at 11:12 a.m. after an uneventful ride from the airport. As you've probably seen, POTUS tweeted about Joe Biden, Facebook, Pennsylvania and Antifa on the ride over. Your pooler did not lay eyes on POTUS before we hustled into the pool area.
It's a windy and overcast 37 degrees here in Michigan. Several cars driving in the opposite direction pulled over to watch the motorcade. One black SUV drove by with a passenger waving a Trump flag out of the rear window.
Hundreds are bundled up and packed into risers and an area surrounding the stage. "Michigan welcomes President Donald J Trump" is emblazoned on a jumbo screen and REM is playing as we await the event to begin.
POTUS is set to take the stage soon and his remarks will be carried live. 


 November 1, 2020 12:32

 Out-of-town pool report #5: Ivanka introduces POTUS 
Ivanka took the stage to huge cheers. She delivered brief remarks before introducing her father. POTUS took the stage at 11:21 wearing a red MAGA hat, black coat and leather gloves. He clapped and circled the stage as Lee Greenwood's God Bless the USA finished.
"Does anybody have a coat I can use please? This is definitely not the right one," POTUS said.
The rally is being carried live. 


 November 1, 2020 12:35

 Out-of-town pool report #6: rally finishes 
POTUS started speaking at 11:23 am and finished just over an hour at 12:26 pm. He danced on stage to YMCA as a cheerful Mark Meadow, wearing sunglasses and a MAGA hat, looked on and clapped along behind the stage.
Apologies for the delayed reports. We have no internet or service out here. We had snow flurries as the wind whipped through the frigid air. POTUS remarked on the weather several times throughout the rally.
A video played showing clips of Biden talking about China and Hannity mocking Biden for gaffes about half way through the rally. The crowd chanted "lock him up" as POTUS assailed Biden and "lock her up" when he criticized Gov. Whitmer.
Pool spotted Hope Hicks exiting what appears to be a heated RV parked behind one of the risers as we waited for POTUS to finish.
We are rolling at 12:32 pm for Oakland County International Airport for the next rally in Dubuque, Iowa. 


 November 1, 2020 13:18

 Out-of-town pool report #7: Departure for Iowa 
?We arrived at Oakland County International Airport at 1:16 p.m. Your pooler caught POTUS boarding AF1 at 1:16 p.m.
We are headed to Dubuque, Iowa, where POTUS will deliver remarks at the second rally of the day at Dubuque Regional Airport.
A couple notes on the last rally: the wind chill came in at 26 degrees. Pool was given hand warmers to help cope.
Some started to trickle out before the rally ended but majority of the crowd remained. Toward the end of the rally, emergency responders pushed into the crowd to the left of the stage with a stretcher for what appeared to be someone in the audience, but re-emerged from the crowd without anyone strapped in. 


 November 1, 2020 14:40

 Out-of-town pool report #8 - Iowa arrival 
AF1 was wheels down at 1:24 p.m central at Dubuque Regional Airport, where it's a sunny 36 degrees. Fox News was seen on the television in the main cabin during the flight. Pool could see cars lining a road along the airport as we taxied toward the rally site.
Pool was hustled into the rally and did not lay eyes on POTUS deplaning. We're now inside the rally site awaiting POTUS. The rally is packed with with hundreds of supporters. Your pooler does not have a crowd size yet but it looks larger than the first rally in Michigan. Like the first rally, there's a big screen which he likely use to play a video about Biden.
His remarks will be carried live. 


 November 1, 2020 14:45

 Out-of-town pool report #9: Iowa rally start 
The beast rolled from AF1 as Lee Greenwood played in the background. POTUS took the stage at 1:42 pm.
An official shares the following on background: many of these rally goers are from Wisconsin. We are on the border of southwest Wisconsin which is why this location was selected.
Of note: Judd Deere was spotted as pool entered the rally. 


 November 1, 2020 15:58

 Out-of-town pool report #10 - Rally no. 2 wraps 
?POTUS finished his remarks at 2:54pm after speaking for 68 minutes.
He ended the rally with his new favorite closer: dancing on stage to YMCA. Ivanka was spotted dancing along as well.
POTUS leveled his usual attacks on Biden and his son Hunter. "The laptop from hell," he told the crowd as they laughed. He also complained about big tech - as he did at the last rally - and Section 230.
He praised Gov. Kim Reynolds, who is in the crowd. Said he couldn't see her under all the "stuff." Notes that she's "definitely wearing a mask." Chuck Grassley is also in the crowd, which is a sea of red MAGA hats.
Trump complained of the wind throughout the rally and noted his daughter was standing in the cold. He invited Ivanka Trump on stage about 22 minutes into his remarks. She fired up the crowd and urged supporters to get out and vote.
Trump again said we're "rounding the turn" on the pandemic. He recalled his COVID -19 diagnosis and learning that his son Barron was sick. He again called it the "China Plague.""What China has done to the whole world," he said. "Think about what they've done to us."Forget your trade deal on your corn, he said.
He's again going after Ilhan Omar, who he said hates our country. "She's a terrorist," someone in the crowd yelled.
POTUS brings former WH press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders on stage. Says "everything is on the line."
"She can be a governor of Arkansas one day," POTUS says.
He then brings Hope Hicks on stage, calls her a very "powerful woman." She speaks briefly and asks the crowd who they're going to vote for. TRUMP, they respond.
"She's a dynamo," POTUS says of Gov. Reynolds after she speaks.
Former Iowa Gov. Terry Branstad - who recently resigned as US Ambassador to China - also took the stage to speak.
Your pooler has asked on crowd size.
Next up: Hickory, NC, for the third of five rallies today. 


 November 1, 2020 16:02

 Out-of-town pool report #11 - Departure for NC 
?POTUS waved to press before he boarded AF1 at 3:00pm for The next rally in Hickory, NC.
Pool is now boarding for Charlotte Douglas International Airport. 


 November 1, 2020 17:51

 Out-of-town pool report #12 - Charlotte arrival 
?AF1 was wheels down at 5:32p.m. at Charlotte Douglas International Airport. No visitors to the back of the plane as members of pool de-thawed on the flight over.
Meadows and Dan Scavino deplaned shortly before POTUS, who descended AF1 at 5:45pm as the sun set over a pink North Carolina sky.
He spoke to press for three and half minutes under the wing. Said "we're doing well all over," saying he's up in Ohio and doing well in NC.
On report that he'll declare victory early: "no, no that was a false report." "I don't think it's fair that we have to wait for a long period of time after the election." "We're going in the night of -as soon as the election is over - we're going in with our lawyers" Said it's a "terrible thing" that ballots are being counted after the election We are headed for Hickory Regional Airport for rally no. 3. Pool was loaded into an Osprey at 5:51 pm.v Some color from the Iowa rally (huge thanks to co-pooler Emily Goodin for filming and helping identify everyone):
As POTUS danced on stage and wrapped up his remarks, Sarah Huckabee Sanders handed her phone to an unidentified man to take a photo of her posing with Hope Hicks, Ivanka and former wrangler Katie Price. The group then broke into dance and began doing the YMCA. Judd Deere was also spotted doing the YMCA. Jared Kushner stood behind and clapped.
Kayleigh McEnany was also seen dancing in a white MAGA hat with gold lettering. 


 November 1, 2020 18:53

 Out-of-town pool report #13 - NC rally arrival 
?Pool touched down at 6:13pm and was ushered into the rally site before Marine One touched down at 6:27 pm at Hickory Regional Airport. The crowd cheered as Marine One whirled behind the rally and Eye of the Tiger played.
Hundreds of supporters filled into a makeshift event space at the airport. Most supporters on the risers behind the podium where POTUS will speak wore masks while the crowd on the ground was a mix of masked and maskless people.
POTUS took the stage at 6:34pm wearing the same dark coat, red tie, red MAGA hat and leather gloves. His remarks will be televised. 


 November 1, 2020 19:25

 Out-of-town pool report #14: Rally no. 3 finishes 
?Apologies for the delay, we had some issues with power and wifi.
POTUS wrapped his remarks at 7:18 pm., clapping and dancing around the stage to YMCA before he exited. He recycled a lot of the material he used earlier in the day with attacks on Biden, Hunter Biden and Whitmer. Said North Carolina's governor needs to open up the state. "It's time, it's ridiculous." Said his son Barron had COVID-19 for a "matter of minutes" which is why he wants children back in school.
POTUS Recognized Sen. Thom Tillis, Rep. Virginia Fox and Lt. Gov. Dan Forest, who is running for governor.
He reprised "The Snake" parable he repurposed as an anti-immigration poem before mentioning terror attacks in Paris. Said he had a lot of requests to read the poem.
Hope Hicks and Jared Kushner spotted watching behind the stage.
POTUS boarded Marine One at 7:21 pm.
We are wheels up at 7:24 for Charlotte Douglas International Airport. Next up: Rome, Georgia. 


 November 1, 2020 19:57

 Out-of-town pool report #15: Departure for Georgia 
?Marine One was wheels down at 7:51 p.m. It's a windy 57 degrees here in Charlotte.
POTUS stepped off Marine One at 7:55 still wearing his hat. He waved to press before ascending the AF1 steps at 7:56 p.m.
We are wheels up shortly for the next stop: Rome, Georgia. 


 November 1, 2020 21:10

 Out-of-town pool report #15: Georgia arrival 
?AF1 was wheels down at 8:54 pm. We could hear "we are the champions" blaring as we taxied up to the event. We were ushered into the press filing area and did not see POTUS deplane.
A printed copy of a Washington Post article entitled, "Democrats grow more anxious about Pennsylvania" was left on every member of pool's seat (pic attached) after we boarded the plane in Charlotte.
POTUS is due to take the stage soon for his fourth rally of the day.
Remarks will be carried live and your pooler will send any notable color. 


 November 1, 2020 23:38

 Out-of-town pool report #16: Rally no. 4 ends 
?POTUS wrapped his remarks under a full moon at 9:56 p.m. for a total of 49 minutes (the rally in Hickory, N.C., lasted 43 minutes). He exited the stage at 9:59 pm.
It was a windy 55 degrees in Rome, Georgia, but pool did spot a sno cone truck parked in the back of the event area. Lots of motorcycles were clustered together next to the left riser and a big Keep America Great bus with POTUS' face on it was parked at the back of the rally. Still have not heard back on crowd size estimates but the rally was packed here tonight with folks who mostly did not wear masks.
POTUS spoke from a podium that was flanked by two giant American flags that hung from cranes. The jumbo screen was placed atop the riser behind him.
"I shouldn't even be here, they said I had Georgia made," Trump said at the beginning of the rally, adding that he promised he'd come.
Trump went after Biden with the same attacks he used earlier. He again assailed "big tech" for not reporting allegations against Hunter Biden. The crowd begins chanting "lock him up."
He mocked Biden: "I want to lock it down. I want to follow science."
On ballot-counting: "Everything has to be counted by the evening," he said. "If they want more time, let them put their ballot in early."
"You know bad things happen in places like Pennsylvania and Nevada."
POTUS said Obama campaigned for Biden and the pair couldn't draw a large crowd. While marveling at his own crowd, he adds: "you know, I do this without a guitar."
He also mentioned Kelly Loeffler and Doug Collins (and their competitive Senate race). Both were in attendance. "I'm stuck right in the middle," he said. He also gave a shout out to Sonny Perdue, who is also here.
POTUS boarded AF1 at 10pm. He turned and waved before boarding.
We are wheels up shortly for our fifth and final rally in Opa-Locka, Florida. 


 November 1, 2020 23:40

 Out-of-town pool report #17: Florida arrival 
AF1 was wheels down at Miami-Opa Locka Executive Airport at 11:31 pm.
POTUS came back and spoke to pool OTR for two and a half minutes followed by Kayleigh McEnany, who also spoke to reporters OTR.
Another printed article was left for pool after we boarded in Georgia: a Politico piece entitled, 'We've got to stop the bleeding': Democrats sounds alarm in Miami. Image.jpeg
Stephen Miller was spotted printing something out on the plane after take-off. 


 November 2, 2020 00:54

 Out-of-town pool report #18: Opa-Locka rally finishes 
?POTUS took the stage at 11:43 pm. Just before he was announced, the crowd (thousands here - biggest crowd of the night) began singing along to "We are the Champions." Pool did not lay eyes on POTUS before we were taken to the filing area. He entered to Lee Greenwood's "God Bless the USA" and began speaking at 11:46 pm. He wrapped his remarks at 12:48 am for a total of 62 minutes.
It's 79 degrees here in Florida and your pooler is thankful for the change in climate. Much of the crowd is not masked.
The crowd has offered a garden variety of chants, including "lock him up" in response to attacks on Biden and "CNN sucks" in response to attacks on the media. A chant of "Fire Fauci!" broke out at one point, to which Trump responded: "Don't tell anybody but let me wait until a little bit after the election."Let me wait until a little bit after the election." He then went on to undercut Fauci'scredibility. "He's been wrong on a lot," he said.
Trump gave a shout out to Pam Bondi, whom he called a "very special woman," and Kimberly Guilfoyle. "You'd never wanted to get in trouble with this one," he said of Guilfoyle. "She's a very special person to me and my family."
He also began talking about Biden's body while talking about fighting his Democratic challenger. "His legs have gotten very thin," he said.
Pool was ushered into press vans before POTUS reached the Beast.
We're motorcading to Doral, where POTUS will RON and we'll do it all again tomorrow. Twenty-four hours until Election Day.
America's fate is in Florida's hands, POTUS says. "As I said, if we win Florida we win it all." 


 November 2, 2020 01:22

 Out-of-town pool report #19: Doral arrival 
?Motorcade arrived at Trump National Doral at 1:15 a.m. Pool did not see POTUS enter Doral.
One note on crowd size: thanks to the inimitable Doug Mills, who spoke to an event staffer who said a police estimate put the total at 12,000 people at the Opa-Locka rally tonight.
We have a travel/photo lid at 1:19 a.m. as we wait to head to our RON. 



  