
    NOMINATIONS SENT TO THE SENATE:
Charles Edward Andrews, of Alabama, to be United States Marshal for the Southern District of Alabama for the term of four years, vice William Smith Taylor, term expired.
Darrell James Bell, of Montana, to be United States Marshal for the District of Montana for the term of four years, vice Dwight MacKay, term expired.
William Benedict Berger, Sr., of Florida, to be United States Marshal for the Middle District of Florida for the term of four years, vice Thomas Dyson Hurlburt, Jr., term expired.
Cathy Bissoon, of Pennsylvania, to be United States District Judge for the Western District of Pennsylvania, vice Thomas M. Hardiman, elevated.
Vincent L. Briccetti, of New York, to be United States District Judge for the Southern District of New York, vice Kimba M. Wood, retired.
Russel Edwin Burger, of Oregon, to be United States Marshal for the District of Oregon for the term of four years, vice Dennis Cluff Merrill, term expired.
Roy Bale Dalton, Jr., of Florida, to be United States District Judge for the Middle District of Florida, vice Henry Lee Adams, Jr., retired.
Sara Lynn Darrow, of Illinois, to be United States District Judge for the Central District of Illinois, vice Joe B. McDade, retired.
John A. Kronstadt, of California, to be United States District Judge for the Central District of California, vice Florence-Marie Cooper, deceased.
S. Amanda Marshall, of Oregon, to be United States Attorney for the District of Oregon for the term of four years, vice Karin J. Immergut, term expired.
Joseph Campbell Moore, of Wyoming, to be United States Marshal for the District of Wyoming for the term of four years, vice James Anthony Rose, term expired.
Kevin Hunter Sharp, of Tennessee, to be United States District Judge for the Middle District of Tennessee, vice Robert L. Echols, retired.
Edwin Donovan Sloane, of Maryland, to be United States Marshal for the District of Columbia for the term of four years, vice George Breffni Walsh, term expired.
Esteban Soto III, of Maryland, to be United States Marshal for the Superior Court of the District of Columbia for the term of four years, vice Stephen Thomas Conboy, resigned.
  