
    Pool Reports by Michael Collins, USA Today 



Sent:
Reports:




November 10, 202108:24

Supplemental pool report #1: Baltimore background 
Good morning. I will be your pooler for the Baltimore portion of President Biden's trip today.
The White House passes along the following info ahead of the president's visit to the Port of Baltimore.
From the White House:
Today in Baltimore, President Biden is going to talk about how we can build on the growth of the last 10 months and tackle our country's most pressing economic concerns – including through the Bipartisan Infrastructure Deal – and build our economy back stronger.
He'll outline the challenges facing working Americans as we come out of the pandemic:
- Lowering prices- Addressing shortages- Getting Americans back to work
The President will talk about how far our country has come in the 10 months since he took office.
- 5.6 million new jobs created at a monthly rate ten times over what he inherited- The fast economic growth in decades- The fastest decrease in unemployment at this point in the year since the 1950s
And he'll talk about the steps his Administration is taking right now to address those forces squeezing the middle class, and the investments we're making to build a stronger, more resilient economy and supply chain for decades to come.
Standing at the Port of Baltimore, the President will detail what his Administration has already done to get our supply chains moving to lower prices, speed up deliveries, and address shortages. That includes working with the Ports of Long Beach and Los Angeles – along with some of the biggest retailers and shippers in the country – to move goods 24/7 from ships to shelves. This was bolstered on Tuesday by the announcement of the President's Port Action Plan, which is going to take immediate steps to relieve congestion at the Port of Savannah – one of the busiest ports in the U.S. – and speed up long-overdue investments in ports and waterways.
And he'll talk about the historic investments the Bipartisan Infrastructure Deal will make in the strength of our supply chains – investments that will lower prices and ease inflationary pressures in the long run. The plan includes $17 billion for our ports, plus tens of billions more in roads, bridges, rail, airports, and other critical links in our supply chain. Together with unprecedented efforts to replace lead water pipes, get every American access to high speed internet, and support electrical vehicles, this represents a once-in-a-century investment in our economic growth, and our competitiveness with China and the rest of the world.
The President will reiterate that his plan represents a blue-collar blueprint for rebuilding our country –addressing bottlenecks like the 150 year-old train tunnel in the heart of Baltimore, strengthening domestic supply chains by reshoring production, and making "Buy American" an ironclad promise. Together with his Build Back Better Agenda, the President's economic plan is going to create millions of good-paying jobs – especially union jobs – that can't be outsourced and will help rebuild the backbone of our country: the middle class.



November 10, 202115:22

Supplemental pool report #2: Baltimore arrival
Marine One was wheels down at the Port of Baltimore landing zone at 3:14 pm.
POTUS stepped off the chopper three minutes later and chatted briefly with the group of dignitaries there to greet him. Names are below.
Motorcade is rolling at 3:22 pm for the short ride to the location where POTUS will receive a briefing on the port and deliver his remarks.
From the White House:
Upon the President's arrival, he will be greeted by:

Maryland Governor Larry Hogan
Maryland Senator Chris Van Hollen
Rep. Kweisi Mfume (MD-07)
Rep. Dutch Ruppersberger (MD-02)
Rep. John Sarbanes (MD-03)
Baltimore Mayor Brandon Scott




November 10, 202115:48

Supplemental pool report #3: Port tour begins
Motorcade arrived at 3:25 pm at a port warehouse-like building for the tour.
Inside, several huge pieces of machinery, including three tractors and a couple of combines, were on display, along with dozens of huge rolls of fresh fiber paperboard.
POTUS entered at 3:47 pm.
From the White House:
The President is viewing machinery that is imported and exported at the Port of Baltimore.
The President will be joined on tour by the following:

Scott Cowan, President of International Longshoremen's Association AFL-CIO Local 333 (tour guide)
Amanda Case, Cargo Processor Operator, International Longshoremen's Association, Local 333
Calvin Givens, Equipment Operator, International Longshoremen's Association, Local 333
Robert Anderson, General Longshoreman, International Longshoremen's Association, Local 333
Anthony Revels, Jr., Crane Operator, International Longshoremen's Association, Local 333
Robert Sawyer Jr. General Longshoreman, International Longshoremen's Association, Local 333

Also joining the President on the tour:

Maryland Governor Larry Hogan
Maryland Senator Chris Van Hollen
Rep. Kweisi Mfume (MD-07)
Rep. Dutch Ruppersberger (MD-02)
Rep. John Sarbanes (MD-03)
Baltimore Mayor Brandon Scott




November 10, 202116:00

Supplemental pool report #4: More from the tour
POTUS, wearing a black face mask, chatted for a few minutes with Sen. Chris Van Hollen and other dignitaries. The pool could not make out their conversation.
POTUS then walked around the room looking at the equipment and stopped to chat with a worker wearing an orange vest. At one point, he placed his hand on the shoulder of his guide, Scott Cowan, President of International Longshoremen's Association AFL-CIO Local 333.
"I tell you what, this is an incredible operation," he said.
Pool was ushered out of the room at 3:57 pm.



November 10, 202116:18

Supplemental pool report #5: Remarks begin
POTUS took the stage at 4:15 p.m. and started speaking a couple of minutes later.
His remarks will be streamed live on the White House web page:
https://www.whitehouse.gov/live/
Speaking ahead of the president were:
• Bill Doyle, Executive Director of the Maryland Port Authority• Maryland Governor Larry Hogan• Baltimore Mayor Brandon Scott• Rep. Kweisi Mfume (MD-07)• Rep. John Sarbanes (MD-03)• Rep. Dutch Ruppersberger (MD-02)• Maryland Senator Chris Van Hollen• Anthony "Tony" Revels, Sr., Crane Operator, International Longshoremen's Association, Local 333



November 10, 202116:43

Supplemental pool report #6: Color
?POTUS spoke from an outdoor stage beneath a bright sun with the waters of the port in the background. A cargo ship loaded with crates was visible "in the distance.
About 75 people are here for his remarks, per the White House.
Some excerpts from his remarks:
POTUS said the nation took "a monumental step forward" with passage of his infrastructure package. He cited the investment in passenger rail service, roads and bridges and the $17 billion in investment in ports
"We're going to reduce congestion," he said.
Ports across the country "will have the resources they need to make these kinds of immediate investments."
POTUS mentioned that he spoke yesterday with the CEOs of major retailers Walmart, Target and with freight carriers FedEX and UPS. "They assured me that the shelves will be stocked at stores this holiday."
POTUS finished speaking at 4:41 pm.



November 10, 202117:29

Supplemental pool report #7: Motorcade departs
POTUS chatted with guests in the crowd and posed for selfies and other photos before returning to the Beast.
Motorcade is rolling toward the landing zone at 5:28 pm.



November 10, 202117:41

Supplemental pool report #8: Marine One departs
?Motorcade arrived back at the landing zone at 5:31 pm after a short ride.
POTUS boarded Marine One without taking questions. The chopper was wheels up at 5:39 pm.
Handing off to in-town pool for POTUS' arrival back at the White House.
A special shout-out to co-pooler Rob Crilly of the Daily Mail for his help in putting together these reports.




 
Pool Reports below by Kethevane Gorjestani, France 24 



Sent:
Reports:




November 10, 202109:52

Foreign pool report #1 
Hello all,
I'm the foreign pooler today.
The President is meeting with the President of the European Commission, Ursula von der Leyen.
The meeting is scheduled for 10am. It is closed press but she is expected to speak at stakeout position after the meeting per EU delegation to the US.
This will be their 5th meeting in as many months after the G7, the US/EU meeting in Brussels, the G20 and the COP26.
Topics (from EU side):
climate action, health, trade and technology, the global recovery and other pressing international issues (which is what VDL tweeted upon arrival in Washington https://twitter.com/vonderleyen/status/1458123181429071878)
Delegation joining Ursula von der Leyen at the White House:
· Bjoern Seibert, Head of Cabinet· Fernando Andresen Guimaraes, Diplomatic Adviser· Eric Mamer, Chief Spokesperson of the European Commission· Ambassador Stavros Lambrinidis, European Union Ambassador to the United States
Schedule:
Per EU delegation, tonight, she will receive the Distinguished International Leadership Awardfrom the Atlantic Council.
While in DC, she is also meeting with heads of Think Tanks and transatlantic business leaders at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce.
Background:
Ursula von der Leyen is 63-year-old German politician and has been President of the European Commission since December 1, 2019. Prior to that she held several cabinet positions under Chancellor Angela Merkel between 2005 & 2019, most recently as German Defense minister. She's a member of the center right CDU in Germany and the EPP in the European parliament.
She was born in Belgium and speaks German, French and English. She also had an American great grand-mother from Charleston, SC.



November 10, 202110:44

Foreign pool report #2 
Per WH, the meeting with Ursula von der Leyen began at 10:26am



November 10, 202111:39

Foreign pool report #3 
Ursula von der Leyen spoke from 11:20 for about 10mn.
She said they discussed the Belarus/Poland situation, Ukraine, Ireland & covid.
She took a few questions after her remarks.
Gathering now for POTUS departure but will send more quotes later.



November 10, 202112:23

Foreign pool report #4
Some quotes from Ursula von der Leyen:"I had a very Productive meeting with President Biden"Says that because they met so many times recently, this meeting was focused mainly on "pressing international topics"-Pandemic: "we have to be very vigilant that this doesn't turn into a pandemic of the unvaccinated" and focused on goal of vaccinating 70% of the world by next year.-Situation on EU/Belarus border: "This is a challenge to the whole of the EU. This is not a migration crisis, this is an attempt by an authoritarian regime to try to destabilize it's democratic neighbors.""We have to protect our democracies from these kinds of cynical geopolitical power-play"-Ukraine: "We fully support the territorial integrity of Ukraine"-Ireland: "We have shown utmost flexibility within the protocol but it is important to stick to what we have agreed and signed together to work with that."
Answers-"We share the assessment that this is an attack by an authoritarian attack to try to destabilize democratic neighbors and this will not succeed."-"We will look into the possibility of sanctioning airlines who facilitate human trafficking towards Minsk, and then the EU/Belarus border.""(EU) will widen or sanctions against Belarus" at the beginning of next week, not just personalities but also entities. Says the US has prepared sanctions that will be in effect at the beginning of december.-"We share the assessment that it is important for peace and stability on the island of Ireland to keep the withdrawal agreement and to keep the protocol."
-One question in German (a special thanks to colleague Juliane Schäuble for the translation) on whether she's still against the border wall that Poland wants the EU to finance:She said she had spoken to the PMs of Lithuania, Latvia and Poland to see if they needed more Help and that they were working well together."It's very important that we start put in place sanctions against Belarus together. It's important that we talk to the countries where the migrants are coming from. And we work on sanctions against countries who are part of the dirty activities of Belarus."
She did not answer Multiple attempts at a question on Russia's role in the situation in Belarus.




 
Pool Reports below by Brian Bennett, Time Magazine 



Sent:
Reports:




November 10, 202109:57

In town print pool #1 - Checking in 
Greetings from a warm and clear November day at the White House. I'll be the in town print pooler for the day. (There are separate poolers covering Biden's visit to Milford, Delaware and the Port of Baltimore today.)
At the White House this morning, President Biden is scheduled to meet the President of the European Commission Ursula von der Leyen in the Oval Office at 10 am. That is closed press.
It is possible President von der Leyen will talk at the sticks in front of the West Wing after her meeting with Biden. Cameras and mics are set up there.
Biden is scheduled to depart the South Lawn at 11:40 pm for his trip to Delaware to attend the funeral of former Delaware Governor Ruth Ann Minner.
P.S. Your pooler was COVID tested before coming into the White House, as usual.



November 10, 202110:43

In town pool report #2 - European Commission meeting started 
The White House press office says the meeting started at 10:26 am. Meeting is closed press. Reporters are at the sticks expecting von der Leyen to give remarks after the meeting.
More from the White House:
Participating in the President's meeting with Her Excellency Ursula von der Leyen, President of the European Commission:
United StatesThe PresidentT.H. Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security AffairsT.H. Daleep Singh, Deputy Assistant to the President & Deputy National Security Advisor & Deputy NEC DirectorT.H. Peter Harrell, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for International Economics & Competitiveness, NSCT.H. Dr. Amanda Sloat, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for Europe, NSCMs. Kelly Adams-Smith, Chargé d'affaires, U.S. Mission to the European UnionMs. Laura Hochla, Director for European Affairs, NSC
European CommissionH.E. Ursula Von der Leyen, President of the European CommissionMr. Bjoern Seibert, Head of CabinetH.E. Stavros Lambrinidis, Ambassador, European Union DelegationMr. Fernando Andresen Guimaraes, Diplomatic AdvisorMr. Eric Mamer, Chief SpokespersonMs. Dearbhla Doyle, Head of Political, Security and Development Section, European Union Delegation
The meeting began at 10:26 AM.



November 10, 202111:26

In town pool report #3 - POTUS meeting with European Commission President over 
President of the European Commission Ursula von der Leyen came to the sticks at 11:19 am. Her remarks are open press. She said her meeting with Biden was "very productive." She said their discussion today focused on the pandemic and the need to increase vaccinate rates further. The two leaders also discussed the crisis on the EU/Poland - Belarus border. Your pooler had to break off midway to be in position for the POTUS Marine One departure.



November 10, 202111:49

In town pool report #4 - departure from White House 
President Biden walked out of the Oval Office at 11:43 am to walk across the South Lawn and board Marine One. He didn't stop as reporters shouted questions. Marine One lifted off at 11:48 am.
From the White House--
Traveling on Marine One with the President:Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of StaffSasha Baker, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for Strategic Planning for the National Security CouncilStephen Goepfert, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the President



November 10, 202118:16

In town pool report #5 - return to White House, lid 
President Biden stepped off Marine One helicopter at 6:09 pm.
He was with Senator Chris Van Hollen of Maryland. The two spoke as they waked across the South Lawn into the White House. Biden didn't stop to answer questions.
White House called a lid at 6:14 pm.
From the White House---
Returning with the President to the White House on Marine One:
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of StaffBrian Deese, Assistant to the President & Director of the National Economic CouncilSasha Baker, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for Strategic Planning for the National Security CouncilAshley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office Operations




 
Pool Reports below by Christopher Cadelago, Politico 



Sent:
Reports:




November 10, 202112:38

Travel Pool #1 — landing in Delaware
Marine One landed about 12:28 p.m. on a field outside the Greater Milford Boys & Girls Club in Milford, DE where the pool was waiting after taking the ospreys from JBA.
POTUS stepped off at 12:35 p.m. and into the waiting motorcade. We'll be rolling momentarily to the memorial service of former Delaware Gov. Ruth Ann Minner, which is taking place at the Milford Church of the Nazarene. It will be steamed live at governor.delaware.gov/live/.
Traveling with the President to Milford, per WH:
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of StaffSasha Baker, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for Strategic Planning for the National Security CouncilStephen Goepfert, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the PresidentAshley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office OperationsDan Cluchey, Senior Presidential Speechwriter



November 10, 202112:53

Travel Pool #2 — arrival at Minner service
The motorcade arrived at the Milford Church of the Nazarene about 12:42 p.m. after a very short drive. The pool is waiting outside the church, and does not expect to be inside for the service, which is streaming online (see last report for link).
This is the program for the memorial service of former Gov. Ruth Ann Minner, reportable at the start of the service.
- Reverend Richard Lindale welcomes attendees and offers the opening prayer.- Dr. Harriet Smith Windsor reads John 14: 1-6.- Yvette Walls Dennehy performs "I'll Fly Away."- Governor John Carney delivers remarks.- Senator Tom Carper reads James 2: 14-18.- J.J. Davis, Executive Vice President and COO, University of Virginia, delivers remarks.- Congresswoman Lisa Blunt Rochester offers a prayer.- POTUS delivers remarks (7-9 minutes).- Yvette Walls Dennehy performs "Amazing Grace."- Reverend Lindale delivers the Benediction.- The church service concludes. The casket processes out with the Minner family.



November 10, 202114:31

Travel Pool #3 — departure from church
POTUS' remarks concluded at 2:11 p.m. (the livestream wasn't exactly live).
The motorcade was rolling at 2:30 p.m.



November 10, 202114:46

Travel Pool #4 — takeoff
POTUS stepped out of his SUV and spent a couple minutes chatting with a man and a woman, then took a picture (Pool asked for names), and was told they are leadership from the Food Bank of Delaware.
Marine One took off from the Boys & Girls Club landing zone in Milford at 2:41 p.m.
Handing off to another team of travel poolers in Baltimore.



November 10, 202114:51

Travel Pool #4a — takeoff/greeters
POTUS was greeted in Milford by:
Cathy Kanefsky, President and CEO, Food Bank of Delaware
Chad Robinson, Director of External Affairs, Food Bank of Delaware




  