
    Des Moines, IA -- The Obama Campaign today announced that State Representative Deb Berry of Waterloo has thrown her support behind Senator Obama's candidacy for president. Citing his track record of building consensus to solve tough challenges, Berry has committed to joining Obama's campaign to change politics in Washington, D.C.
"Barack Obama is the best candidate to bring our country together, inspire hope and unity, and work across the aisle to get things done," Representative Berry said. "Barack Obama is the agent for change that we need in this country, and I have confidence and trust in him to fulfill the duty of President of the United States. America is ready for real leadership, not more of the same Washington, D.C. conventional thinking, and that's why I'm proud to support Barack Obama's campaign to unite our divided nation and tackle the tough challenges we face."
Representative Berry has represented Waterloo in the State Legislature since 2002. Born and raised in Waterloo, IA, she serves on the Appropriations, Commerce, Government Oversight, and Public Safety Committees. Representative Berry's record of public service includes time on the Waterloo City Council and tireless work as an advocate and mentor for at-risk youth.
"Representative Berry has been a tireless leader in her community, and she will play a vital role in our campaign's outreach efforts in Waterloo and across Iowa." Senator Obama said. "Representative Berry's commitment and dedication are evident through her record of public service, and I'm proud to have her join our grassroots movement for change."
To date, including Rep. Berry, Senator Obama has received 17 endorsements from Iowa state legislators including Rep. Ako Abdul-Samad, Sen. Bob Dvorsky, Rep. Elesha Gayman, Sen. Bill Heckroth, Rep. David Jacoby, Rep. Pam Jochum, Rep. Helen Miller, Sen. Rich Olive, Rep. Donovan Olson, Rep. Tyler Olson, Rep. Janet Petersen, Rep. Brian Quirk, Sen. Tom Rielly, Rep. Mark Smith, Sen. Steve Warnstadt, and Sen. Frank Wood. Iowa Attorney General Tom Miller and State Treasurer Mike Fitzgerald have also endorsed Senator Obama's campaign for change.
  