
    Senator Jim DeMint (R-SC)
Ask Team Mitt Anything
Jim-SC: "Should illegal immigrants be allowed to have driver's license?"
Senator DeMint: "Good question Jim. No. Driver's licenses are used in many states, including South Carolina, as identification for voting. They are also used for identification to sign up for various government programs. Therefore, it is a mistake for any state or community to issue legal drivers licenses to people who are in our country illegally."
...
Gregory-TX: "Sen. DeMint, how confident are you that line-item veto power can be crafted for the U.S. President that will pass muster with the Constitution?"
Senator DeMint: "I'm very confident that we can write legislation for the line item veto that will hold up under court scrutiny. In fact, we have already developed legislation that clearly passes the constitutional test. Our president needs more tools to cut wasteful spending and earmarks and to hold the spending of Congress in check. Line item veto should be a tool that President Romney has to make our government more responsible."
...
James-ID: "Hey Senator, Do you believe the Republican party should sacrifice some principles in order to beat Hillary Clinton."
Senator DeMint: "Quite the opposite. The Republican Party needs to rediscover its principles in order to lead the American people and defeat Hillary Clinton in 2008. Americans will only vote for Hillary Clinton if they do not trust our nominee to lead with integrity and values and a clear vision. Republicans are in the minority today because we compromised our principles. Governor Romney understands that we must first change the Republican Party before we can change America. I believe that Mitt Romney embodies the core principles and values that can once again make the Republican Party the majority and the leaders for our future. "
...
KBrown: "Why did you decide to endorse Mitt Romney?"
Senator DeMint: "I believe that Mitt Romney has the experience, the vision and the values that America needs to get us back on the right track. I believe he is the only candidate who has demonstrated an ability to develop plans and to execute them in a complex environment. Romney has been successful in the business world as a leader in the volunteer sector, such as leading our Olympics and has proven as Gov of Massachusetts that he can take good business principles into government and make them work. Washington does not need any more politicians, we need a problem-solver."
...
Jacob-CA: "What is Governor Romney's position on the Sea Treaty?"
Senator DeMint: "Gov Romney and I are concerned about giving up any American sovereignty to another international body. The Law of the Sea Treaty appears to submit American interests to a number of nations who have not proven to support American interests abroad. It is therefore our position at this time that we not adopt the Law of the Sea Treaty and continue to look for ways to cooperate with the international community while protecting American sovereignty."
...
Dal-TX: "Tell us what type of judges the Gov would appoint."
Senator DeMint: "The Governor has made it clear that he will appoint strict constructionists to the federal bench. I'm comfortable that he will help to shape a Supreme Court that supports the values and principles of a free people and accurately reflects the intent of our Constitution."
To read the full transcript of Senator DeMint's online town hall, please see: http://www.mittromney.com/News/Chat/DeMint
  