
    [As prepared for delivery.]
***
Today, I'm here to talk to parents. I'm a mom, too, and when you became a parent, there's a moment that we all go through—when you look at that baby, with eyes like saucers and the tiniest fingers, and you feel an overwhelming sense of love, deep in your bones…and absolute terror. Because you know that this fragile life is depending on you.
And from that moment on, you see the world differently—every step, every street corner, every bite of food is a danger that you never even noticed before.
So, we buy baby gates and cover our electrical outlets. We wrestle them into car seats no matter how much they complain.
We make them eat their vegetables and stuff them in winter coats and scarves until they can barely walk. We hold their hands to cross the street and teach them to always look both ways.
And after bedtime, when we're exhausted from the day and sure that, if we hear "can I have a glass of water" one more time, we will descend into a permanent madness.
Yet, we walk down the hall from their bedroom and feel a pang of gratitude, knowing that those dinner complaints and bedtime negotiations mean that everything is OK…that they are healthy and growing…that we are OK.
Parents, we do absolutely everything to protect our kids. And in this pandemic, you did. You figured out how to support their virtual learning while working your job. You found ways to create online playdates and birthday parties. You chose to get yourself vaccinated.
And even though there were times when you probably felt like no matter what you did it wasn't enough, I want you to know: You carried your family though this. You're doing an amazing job.
The President and I know how difficult this pandemic has been for your family.
I'm here today because we care about you and your children. Joe and our team have been working every day to give you what you need to keep your family safe in this pandemic. And parents, I'm so excited that, now, you have a new way to do just that: a vaccine for children, 5 and up.
So many of you have asked me over the last few months when this was coming.
And now, it's here—not just another way to protect your kids against COVID-19, but, as Dr. Murthy said, the best way.
So, here's what I want you to remember and share with other parents:
The vaccine is the best way to protect your children against COVID-19.
It's been thoroughly reviewed and rigorously tested.
It's safe.
It's free.
And it's available for every child in this country, five and up.
Parenthood and worrying go hand-in-hand. It's just what we do.
So, I can't promise you that the dangers of the world will become any less frightening. Just wait until your kids start driving! But with this vaccine, we can take away at least one of those worries. A big one.
From the day you held your sweet, fragile, little baby, you have made the choice, again and again, to keep your child safe. Giving your child the COVID-19 vaccine is your choice too.
So, make the decision to protect your children with the same vaccine that has already saved millions of lives.
Because nothing is more important than our children's health. It's up to us to keep them safe—and with this vaccine, we can.
Thank you.
  