
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Romney Press Shop (857) 288-6390
Boston, MA – Today, Romney for President announced that former Oklahoma State Representative Thad Balkman will serve as the Political Director for the Oklahoma statewide campaign. Balkman will work to expand Governor Romney's grassroots efforts throughout the state, and will help communicate his message of conservative change in Washington.
Romney for President National Political Director Carl Forti said, "Mr. Balkman is an excellent addition to our team in Oklahoma. We are pleased that he will be volunteering his time to help organize our campaign efforts at the grassroots level. Our campaign is committed to Oklahoma and we are excited that Mr. Balkman will bring his political experience and leadership to our campaign."
Former State Representative Thad Balkman said, "Governor Romney is the only candidate in this race who has the proven record to lead America forward as we face a new generation of global challenges. He has extensive experience in problem solving and has governed with principled leadership. Mitt Romney is the only candidate who will bring conservative values back to Washington. I am proud to join his Oklahoma campaign."
Background On Thad Balkman:
Thad Balkman Served As A State Representative In The Oklahoma State Legislature From 2000 To 2006. Balkman now serves as Executive Director of Oklahoma's "100 Ideas Initiative," a plan led by House Speaker Lance Cargill to spark innovation for Oklahoma's second century. During the 50th legislature he was selected as Majority Caucus Chairman and the Chairman of the Appropriations and Budget Subcommittee on Health & Social Services. His efforts in opposition to tax hikes earned Balkman recognition as "Friend of the Taxpayers" by Grover Norquist's Americans for Tax Relief. Balkman is also active on social issues and was responsible for creating the "Choose Life" license plate, the sales of which go to help unborn babies, pregnant women and the counseling centers that serve them. Balkman is a licensed attorney and is the Vice President of External Relations and General Counsel for Phoenix Motorcars, an industry leader of battery electric, freeway speed vehicles. He and his wife Amy have five children: Adeline, Jackson, Miles, Harrison, and Zoe.
  