
    LAS VEGAS, NV-- Today, Local 396 of the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers (IBEW) endorsed the Presidential campaign of New Mexico Governor Bill Richardson. Local 396 represents more than 2,400 electrical workers in the Las Vegas region, many of whom work for Embarq, Nevada Power, or in outside construction.
"Bill Richardson's record on labor issues may be better than any other Presidential candidate, but his commitment to seeing our members face-to-face made this endorsement an easy decision," Business Manager Charlie Randall said. "We have been through some tough negotiations recently, and our members want a President who does not just say the right things, but one who will show up and stand with us."
Richardson was the first candidate to promise labor a seat at the table in his administration, pledging to appoint a union member as his Secretary of Labor.
"As a volunteer driver during his trips to Las Vegas, I have met Governor Richardson many times," Business Representative Jeremy "Frog" Newman said. "His credentials are amazing, but my favorite thing about him is that he is down to earth. His personality and his sense of humor felt right at home in our union hall, and he is the candidate that our guys are excited to support."
As Governor of a Western state, Richardson has hands-on experience with the issues facing IBEW members in Nevada, and his ties to the union are long-standing. Brian Condit, Richardson's Deputy Chief of Staff in New Mexico, is an IBEW member.
"I have had a long and powerful relationship with IBEW and Local 396," Governor Richardson said. "These are the men and women who keep the lights of Las Vegas turned on. They are active, they are strong, and they will be great leaders in the January 19 caucus. I want to thank Charlie, Jesse, Frog, Robert and all of the members of Local 396. I am proud to have all of you with me."
The leadership of IBEW Local 396 already is reaching out to its membership. Richardson for President Nevada State Director Roberta Lange will join IBEW members as an invited guest at Local 396's annual Christmas party on December 1. IBEW 396 is the second Nevada union to endorse Richardson's candidacy, following the endorsement of the Operative Plasterers' and Cement Masons' Local 797 at their annual picnic on October 13.
  