
    President Trump is delivering economic results not seen in years, as confidence soars, unemployment plummets, and businesses expand. 
WASHINGTON EXAMINER: On Top: Best Economy in 19 Years, Highest Confidence in 14
"A remarkably low 13 percent are calling President Trump's economy a problem as confidence is hitting a 14-year high, and seven in 10 said 2018 is a good time to find a quality job. The key points from Gallup's just-published economic survey: Economic Confidence Index at +31 in November, remaining at its highest since 2004. 55 percent rate current economic conditions positively. Record-tying 68 percent say it is a good time to find a quality job."
BLOOMBERG: U.S. Factory Production Expands for Fifth Consecutive Month
"U.S. factory production expanded in October for a fifth straight month, the longest streak since 2011 and indicating a solid start to the fourth quarter, Federal Reserve data showed Friday. Manufacturing output rose 0.3 percent after an upwardly revised 0.3 percent gain in the prior month."
THE WALL STREET JOURNAL: Small-Business Confidence Stays at Near-Record High 
"A strong labor market and high profit trends, along with historically low inflation, are keeping small-business owners' confidence at near-record levels, setting the stage for a strong fourth quarter, according to the National Federation of Independent Business."
CBNC: Consumer Sentiment Tops Expectations in November, Stays on Pace for Best Year Since 2000
"A preliminary reading on consumer sentiment for November released on Friday came in slightly above expectations. The University of Michigan's consumer sentiment index hit 98.3."
CNS NEWS: Unemployment Rate at Record Low in 10 States: California, New York, Texas, Missouri, Iowa... 
"The unemployment rate was at a record low in ten states in October, according to data released today by the Bureau of Labor Statistics. In Arkansas (3.5 percent), California (4.1 percent), Idaho (2.7 percent), Iowa (2.4 percent), Missouri (3.1 percent), New York (4.0 percent), Oregon (3.8 percent), South Carolina (3.3 percent), Texas (3.7 percent) and Washington (4.3 percent) the statewide unemployment rate was at the lowest level recorded, according to BLS."
WASHINGTON EXAMINER: Ratio of Unemployed Workers to Available Jobs Hovers at Record Low 
"The ratio of unemployed workers to open jobs hovered at a record low in September, the Bureau of Labor Statistics reported Tuesday morning in a sign of the economy's strength. There were 0.9 unemployed workers for every job vacancy listed in the month, a ratio the agency said was the lowest since it's been keeping track and that hasn't been recorded before this year."
THE WALL STREET JOURNAL: Yes, You're Hired. No, We Don't Need to Meet You First. 
"Eager employers trying to lure workers in the tightest job market since 1969 are hiring some candidates sight unseen, at times after one phone interview. The practice has become most common in seasonal work, particularly retail, although it is spreading among certain in-demand white-collar roles, such as engineers, IT professionals and teachers."
BLOOMBERG BNA: United Steelworkers Get Raise from U.S. Steel Amid Tariff Win 
"The union approved a new four-year agreement that includes a 14 percent wage increase over the life of the contract and strengthens benefits for members, according to a statement. The agreement comes as American steel companies benefit from a 25 percent tariff on foreign imported metal."
  