
    Pool Reports by Nikki Schwab, Daily Mail 



Sent:
Reports:




November 2, 202213:28

FLOTUS Pool Report No. 1 - Wilmington departure
Hi there! I'll be your print pooler for Dr. Biden's swing through Pittsburgh, Allentown and Philadelphia today, which will include several campaign events and a trip to the World Series. (Go Phillies!)
Pool picked up Dr. Biden at home in Wilmington, as she voted early yesterday. The motorcade departed at 1:13 p.m. and arrived at DANG at 1:24 p.m.
FLOTUS boarded Executive One Foxtrot at 1:26 p.m. as pool was getting out of the van. From afar she seemed to be wearing a blush-colored blazer, a Navy skirt and heeled boots.
I'll be putting photos from the day here:https://www.dropbox.com/sh/1np87o0t9ltixdj/AACvE56ECuH01ujXn3TrwfjUa?dl=0
We'll be wheels up to Pittsburgh shortly.



November 2, 202214:50

FLOTUS Pool Report No. 2 - Pittsburgh arrival
Executive One Foxtrot took off at 1:41 p.m. We landed at the Pittsburgh International Airport's 171st Aerial Refueling Wing at 2:29 p.m. Your pool was treated to views of the Cathedral of Learning and downtown Pittsburgh on the flight in.
FLOTUS disembarked E1F at 2:39 p.m. It's a blue dress she's wearing, with a brown belt, dusty rose blazer and taupe boots. She mingled with the military greeters (names below) and got into her SUV at 2:41 p.m., after giving the pool a thumbs up to a question about the Phillies' World Series game win last night.
We're rolling as of 2:43 p.m. to her first event, a fundraiser.
A Biden senior advisor said the fundraiser will be held at the private residence of Cindy and David Shapira, who, if Google is accurate, is the former head of the Giant Eagle grocery store chain.
GREETERS:

Col. Raymond Hyland, Wing Commander
Col. Tim Waugaman
Chief Mstr Sgt Jennifer Shawley, Comms Group Chief Enlisted
Chief Mstr Sgt Charles Wiley, Wing Chief Enlisted




November 2, 202216:14

FLOTUS Pool Report No. 3 - Fox Chapel DNC fundraiser
The motorcade pulled into the Shapira residence at 3:20 p.m. and FLOTUS walked in a moment later. A group of male valets dressed in black all had their phones out to capture the moment. One neighbor across the street had a Dr. Oz sign in the yard.
We're in the Fox Chapel neighborhood. The home is modern with a tan exterior. The event is being held in a large living room/atrium space with floor to ceiling windows
Cindy Shapira introduced the first lady starting at 3:39 p.m."I'm so proud of my Pittsburghers. Steelers, not withstanding, it's only this year.""Frankly we're one of the most important states,' she said."You are incredible, your husband is incredible. He's passionate and exactly what America needs."
Then Dr. Biden took over the podium:"It's wonderful to be here, actually, in my home state. I grew up in Pennsylvania. Even though it's Pirates country.""We are all Pennsylvanians at heart, right?" she said, garnering applause."There are all values that we share, like seeing the Astros lose."Yes we can clap to that," she said, as audience members clapped more vigorously.
She then recalled how her Republican-voting family didn't talk much politics. (Though did root for the Phillies.)
Then she met Joe.
"On our first date I remember thinking, thank God I voted for him," she said.
She argued that most Americans want the same thing.
"When extremists go after rights that most Americans choose, like a woman's right to choose. Or when they stand in the way of affordable prescriptions or clean energy, you're letting down all Americans.
She then retold a story about a girlhood friend having to obtain an abortion before Roe v. Wade:
"When I was 17 one of my girlfriends got pregnant.""Abortion was illegal here in Pennsylvania.""She told me she would have to get a psychiatric evaluation to declare her mentally unfit before the doctor would perform the procedure.""I went to see her in the hospital and then I cried the whole way home."Dr. Biden recalled asking, "Mom can she come stay with us?""And my mom didn't hesitate.""And my mom never told a soul. In fact, my mom and I never spoke about it again.""Secrecy, shame, silence, danger, even death, that's what defined that time for so many women."
"So I was shocked when the Dobbs decision came out. It was so devastating. How could we go back? We can't and we won't."
President Biden "knows how to get things done."
"That's why we must defend and grow our majorities in Congress."
"Republicans are putting Social Security and Medicare on the chopping block.""And it's just not fair."
"Together we will win on November 8," Dr. Biden concluded.
Cindy Shapira then took back over the podium saying: "I'm remiss in not mentioning my incredible husband," pointing him out in the small audience.
"It happens to me all the time," Dr. Biden joked.
She was mingling with the guests – about 30 or so – as pool was pulled out.
We're rolling to the next event as of 4:03 p.m.



November 2, 202216:54

FLOTUS Pool Report No. 4 - AFT arrival
The motorcade wove through downtown Pittsburgh and then over to the South Side. We drove down Carson Street passing the eclectic selection of bars and tattoo parlors.
At 4:27 Dr. Biden emerged and greeted Randi Weingarten and the president of the Pittsburgh Federation of Teachers Nina Esposito-Visgotis outside AFT headquarters. There's a large, blue AFTvotes bus parked behind them.
The trio talked out of earshot of the pool.
Pool was pulled at 4:30 p.m.



November 2, 202217:38

FLOTUS Pool Report No. 5 - AFTvotes speech
At 4:53 p.m. the program at AFT Pennsylvania's Pittsburgh office kicked off. This event is open press, so only sending color and key quotes. There are probably about 100-150 people in the audience.
Nina Esposito-Visgitis spoke first. (Apologies for the name misspelling in the last report.)
Randi Weingarten got a standing ovation when she appeared onstage. She noted that the midterms are six days away."Tomorrow you can count them on one hand.""I've been in Pittsburgh a lot before elections, and I don't know one that is more consequential than this one."She gave a shout-out to the "staff of the Pittsburgh Union-Press.""And I'm shouting them out because they have created a paper, a strike paper of reporters and photographers and production staff who are on a strike right now from the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette."(The PG strike has been ongoing and a number of Democratic officials have stopped by to visit with striking newspaper workers.)
We are just talking about the school boards and some of the struggles we're having in the environs. Who's protecting our freedoms?" Weingarten continued.
"They just use our kids as political pawns in culture wars.""So we are really close, these elections are really close."
Weingarten called Dr. Biden a "sea change" from the last first lady, for "decency, competence, for science, for inclusion for our kids."
"We have an ally in the White House. Somebody who literally has been grading papers in the residence."
Dr. Biden came onstage at 5:09 p.m. and received a standing ovation.
"Thank you for the teachers for bringing your students so they can see democracy in action," Biden said.
Children from the Allegheny Traditional Elementary Academy are on hand.
"You just got out of your classrooms and you've got a lot of energy," she commented after the audience delivered some polite applause.
She called teachers "dreamers" and "doers."
"When our lessons don't go according to plan, we find another way to make it work. And when our students are struggling, we help. And the results are lives changed," she said.
"Right now we're in the fight for the future of the country."
"He's delivered results again and again. And he did it with just a slim majority in congress. Imagine what he could do with a few more partners – like Chris Deluzio and Summer Lee."
"Like a lot of educators to stay organized, I use to-do lists," Biden said. "So this election is going to be won or lost by where voting falls on your to-do list."
"This year races up and down the ballot are going to be so close. And the only way we're going to win is by showing up."
"So put voting at the top of your to-do list," she said.
"We all have that teacher voice. That makes people stop what they're doing and pay attention. Well now is the time to use it."
Remarks wrapped at 5:18 p.m.
Pool is being pulled
Speaking program, via AFT:
Part 1• Nina Esposito-Visgitis, Pittsburgh Federation President• Rob Mitchell, Spanish Teacher at Westinghouse High School• Randi Weingarten, President, AFT• FLOTUS
Part 2• Darrin Kelly, President Allegheny County Labor Council• Mandy Steele, Candidate for State Rep District 33• Arvind Venkat, Candidate for State Rep District 30• Sen. Lindsey Williams, Incumbent, Candidate in Senate District 30• Summer Lee, Candidate for Congress District 12• Chris Deluzio, Candidate for Congress District 17



November 2, 202218:08

FLOTUS Pool Report No. 6 - Pittsburgh departure and World Series guidance
The motorcade pulled out at 5:25 p.m. Ride was uneventful, though pool got to see stunning vistas of downtown Pittsburgh.
We were back at the Pittsburgh airport at 5:53 p.m. Dr. Biden was shaking the hands of the motorcycle cops that were part of the motorcade as pool boarded E1F.
We'll be wheels up to Allentown, Pennsylvania shortly.
Background | First Lady Jill Biden Joins Major League Baseball and Stand Up To Cancer to Honor Those Affected By Cancer at the 2022 World SeriesOn Wednesday, November 2nd, as part of the Biden Administration's Cancer Moonshot, First Lady Jill Biden will attend Game 4 of Major League Baseball (MLB)'s World Series in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. The First Lady will join players, umpires, fans, and coaches in the MLB's annual Game 4 tradition of honoring those affected by cancer as part of the league's support and partnership with Stand Up To Cancer. The First Lady will watch Game 4 alongside local cancer survivor Luke Theodosiades, his family, and cancer researchers affiliated with Stand Up To Cancer, including from the Children's Hospital of Philadelphia. After the fifth inning, the group will participate in MLB's televised Stand Up To Cancer "placard" moment.
While the First Lady is a "Philly girl" and Phillies fan at heart, she's rooting for the fight to end cancer as we know it. The fight against cancer is personal for the President and First Lady, like it is for so many Americans. This is the First Lady's second engagement with the Phillies this season. In September, Dr. Biden joined the Philadelphia Phillies in honoring local childhood cancer patients and their loved ones during the team's "Childhood Cancer Awareness Night" game at Citizens Bank Park. This year marks the first time that the Cancer Moonshot, through First Lady Jill Biden, and Major League Baseball are teaming up in the fight against cancer.
Major League Baseball's Partnership with Stand Up To CancerMajor League Baseball (MLB) is a founding partner of Stand Up To Cancer (SU2C). Since 2009, MLB and its 30 Clubs have donated more than $50 million to SU2C. MLB conducts significant awareness-building efforts through public service announcements and in-stadium promotions. The MLB features SU2C at its "jewel events," including the All-Star Game and the World Series. Traditionally, SU2C is featured at Game 4 of the World Series during a "placard moment" following the conclusion of the fifth inning. During the placard moment, the game pauses and players, umpires, coaches, and fans come together to hold up placards with handwritten names of loved ones or messages of support for those affected by cancer.
Background on Stand Up to CancerStand Up To Cancer's (SU2C) mission is to raise awareness and funds to accelerate innovative cancer research that can get new therapies to patients quicker and save lives. SU2C funds collaborative, multidisciplinary, multi-institutional scientific cancer research teams and investigators. Its research teams study many cancer types, with a focus on the most innovative areas of cancer therapy, including immunotherapy and epigenetics. Since SU2C's founding, it has pledged $746 million to cancer research and supported more than 3,000 cancer researchers and 270 clinical trials.
Background on Dr. Biden's Cancer Advocacy Efforts:First Lady Jill Biden's advocacy for cancer education and prevention began in 1993, when four of her friends were diagnosed with breast cancer. Following that year, she launched the Biden Breast Health Initiative to educate Delaware high school girls about the importance of cancer prevention. As First Lady, she continues her work emphasizing early detection efforts and the patient, family, and caregiver experience with cancer. She has also focused on the importance of cancer screenings, especially those delayed or put off due to the COVID-19 pandemic. She has encouraged government partners, the business community, and non-profit sectors to help make screenings more accessible and available to all.
As First Lady, Dr. Biden has been a fierce advocate for the fight to end cancer as we know it. Some of her recent work includes:

October 2022: Dr. Biden joined cancer patients, survivors, and their families at the National Football League's Crucial Catch game, Dallas Cowboys vs. Philadelphia Eagles at Lincoln Financial Field in Philadelphia, PA. This game was dedicated to featuring the National Football League (NFL) and the American Cancer Society's Crucial Catch efforts to fight cancer through early detection and risk reduction.
October 2022: Dr. Biden and National Cancer Institute (NCI) Director Dr. Monica Bertagnolli visited the Sylvester Comprehensive Cancer Center in Broward County, FL to spotlight the challenges that breast cancer survivors often face, as well as the cancer center's research and programs designed to support survivors and their families.
October 2022: Dr. Biden and NCI Director Dr. Monica Bertagnolli visited the University of California, San Francisco (UCSF) Helen Diller Family Comprehensive Cancer Center in San Francisco,CA to highlight advances in breast cancer research and programs that support breast cancer patients, survivors, and caregivers.
September 2022: During National Childhood Cancer Awareness Month, Dr. Biden joined the Philadelphia Phillies for the team's Childhood Cancer Awareness Night to honor pediatric cancer patients, survivors, and their families at the game at Citizens Bank Park in Philadelphia, PA.
May 2022: Dr. Biden visited the National Children's Hospital of Costa Rica to celebrate the finalization of memoranda of understanding between Costa Rica's public health authority, the University of Pennsylvania, and the Children's Hospital of Philadelphia. Through this research collaboration, Costa Rican pediatric cancer patients will have access to a novel cancer immunotherapy treatment – CAR T-cell therapy – and Costa Rican medical personnel will receive training opportunities.
March 2022: Dr. Biden visited St. Jude Children's Research Hospital in Memphis, Tennessee, to learn about St. Jude's research initiatives and supportive services for patients and their families. Dr. Biden also greeted with Ukrainian pediatric cancer patients and families brought to St. Jude. Many Ukrainian pediatric cancer patients were displaced by Russia's invasion of Ukraine.

Background on the Cancer Moonshot:As Vice President, in 2016, Joe Biden led the Cancer Moonshot with the mission to accelerate the rate of progress against cancer. The cancer advocacy, patient, research and health care communities responded with tremendous energy and ingenuity. Now, President Biden has reignited the Cancer Moonshot and set a new national goal: if we work together, we can cut the death rate from cancer by at least 50% over the next 25 years, and improve the experience of people and their families living with and surviving cancer.


November 2, 202219:24

FLOTUS Pool Report No. 7 - Allentown arrival
Executive One Foxtrot was wheels up at 6:10 p.m. We landed in Allentown at 6:52 p.m.FLOTUS walked off E1F after press was loaded in the van at 7:03 p.m.
We're rolling as of 7:04 p.m.



November 2, 202220:19

FLOTUS Pool Report No. 8 - Muhlenberg College appearance
Motorcade arrived at 7:19 p.m.
We passed a handful of Mastriano signs along the route. And got a nice tour of the Muhlenberg College campus. A handful of students had their heads poked out of dorm windows to snap pictures.
FLOTUS is speaking in the Miller Forum in Moyer Hall. The backdrop is filled with Susan Wild: U.S. Congress signs.
The crowd was a mix of young people and older adults.
Wild's field organizer opened the program, followed by Rep. Madeleine Dean. She's flanked by Dr. Biden and Wild. Wild's in a tough re-election fight, while Dean represents a safer district for Democrats.
"Today I'm just mad about Dr. Biden and I'm wild for Susan," Dean said. "Susan Wild is the right person for the job, we cannot lose her."Dean told the crowd to vote "for decency and for democracy."
The crowd chanted "Susan" as she took over the podium.
"We have a text thread the four of us," Wild remarked – speaking about the four Pennsylvania lady Dems – Dean, Wild, Mary Gay Scanlon and Chrissy Houlahan, adding that former PA Gov. Ed Rendell called them the "fab four."
Wild then spoke about how she was motivated to run for Congress to defend how the ACA protected people with pre-existing conditions.
Wild talked about the shift she'd seen in Congress among Republicans, saying she could see working with former GOP Rep. Charlie Dent, "but next year might be even tougher."
Wild talked about the "incredibly important" governor's race. "And John Fetterman, you know what, God bless him," she continued. "Let me just say to anyone who mocked his debate appearance or his current state … never had anybody in their own family with any type of stroke …," she said.
FLOTUS started speaking at 7:56 p.m.
"I just want to say, go Phillies," she said. " … and the Eagles, undefeated!"
She said the Philly fandom was "proud, and some might say obnoxious – but they're just jealous."
She then used the "to-do list" analogy again.
At one point Dr. Biden talked about the "drastically different" choices in the election.
"Drastic!" an audience member shouted out.
"And as my husband said, we are fighting for the soul of America," Dr. Biden said. "I was watching his speech on the TV … if you have time tonight, I know you'll be watching the Phillies game. Between commercials, watch Joe's speech."
She wrapped at 8:03 – the start time of the Phillies game.
Katy Perry's "Roar" played as Dr. Biden joined arms with the lawmakers on stage.
Motorcade was rolling back to the airport as of 8:07 p.m.
More TK



November 2, 202220:38

FLOTUS Pool Report No. 9 - Allentown departure
The motorcade arrived at the Allentown airport at 8:22 p.m. Pool didn't see FLOTUS board.
The game is now playing on E1F TVs.
We'll be wheels up to Philly shortly.



November 2, 202221:26

FLOTUS Pool Report No. 10 - arrival in Philly with Phillies gear on
Executive One Foxtrot took off from Allentown at 8:34 p.m.
Dr. Biden visited the press cabin to show off her World Series jacket that has "BIDEN" written on the back, procured during the last Phillies' World Series run, she said.
Grandson Hunter, Beau's son, will be joining her at the game tonight.
We landed in Philadelphia at 8:56 p.m.
Dr. Biden disembarked E1F at 9:05 p.m.
We were rolling to the stadium at 9:06 p.m.



November 2, 202221:29

FLOTUS Pool Report No. 11 - World Series arriva
The motorcade arrived at Citizens Bank Park at 9:18 p.m. We drove through the basement of the stadium.
Pool noticed one male Phillies fan flipping the bird as motorcade pulled in.
The buildings in Philly's downtown skyline were all lit up red.
Pool didn't see FLOTUS get out of the car.
More TK.



November 2, 202222:14

FLOTUS Pool Report No. 12 - Stand Up To Cancer
Pool rejoined FLOTUS in her box for the Stand Up To Cancer moment at the conclusion of a rough 5th inning for the Phillies.
Attendees are asked to hold up signs during a cancer tribute.
Her signs are for Beau and Corey Phelan, the late minor league pitcher, and her sister Kim's father-in-law.
From our vantage point at the back of the box, the stadium was quiet when FLOTUS was flashed onscreen.
More TK



November 2, 202223:35

FLOTUS Pool Report No. 13 - more World Series color
After the Stand Up To Cancet moment, pool was then briefly brought closer to FLOTUS. She was seated between grandson Hunter and cancer survivor Luke Theodosiades. Adviser Anthony Bernal later slipped into the seat next to her.
There were platters of sushi and charcuterie, popcorn buckets decorated with tiny plastic Phillies hats, and various other goodies on tables throughout the box.
FLOTUS was briefly flashed onscreen at the stadium later in the game after celebrities Bruce Springsteen, Miles Teller and Kate Upton.
Pool was pulled out before the end of the game.
The motorcade departed Citizens Bank Park at 11:15 p.m., as the game remained at the top of the 9th inning.
We're rolling to the airport.



November 2, 202223:36

FLOTUS Pool Report No. 14 - Philly departure
Motorcade passed by mostly disinterested Phillies fan. Your pooler only heard one man booing and animatingly giving a thumbs down.
Motorcade pulled up to the tarmac at 11:27 p.m.
Dr. Biden hugged grandson Hunter on the tarmac - who had a World Series pillow - and climbed on board at 11:28 p.m.
The Phillies lost the game as we were boarding.
Wheels up to JBA shortly.



November 3, 202200:57

FLOTUS Pool Report No. 15 - White House return
Executive One Foxtrot was wheels up at 11:46 p.m.
We touched down at JBA at 12:19 a.m.
FLOTUS walked off E1F at 12:29 a.m. She was still wearing her World Series jacket with a long peacoat over it.
The motorcade departed JBA's tarmac at 12:31 a.m.
The ride was uneventful. Motorcade pulled into the White House driveway at 12:50 a.m.
That's all from me - have a great night!




  