
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

Reye's Syndrome is a rare and often fatal illness that affects children under the age of 18 who are recovering from influenza or chicken pox. Reye's Syndrome can be deceptive, attacking just when it appears that the child is getting better. The symptoms-which include mental confusion, persistent or continuous vomiting, loss of energy, sleepiness and belligerent behavior—may develop quickly, sometimes within half a day. Immediate medical care is essential. If not treated promptly, a child suffering from Reye's Syndrome may go into coma and die.
The number of cases of Reye's Syndrome has dropped dramatically since continuous national surveillance was established by the Center for Disease Control in December 1976. This does not mean, however, that the public should become complacent about this illness. Although Reye's Syndrome is rare, it is life-threatening. About one-third of its victims do not survive.
Much remains to be learned about Reye's Syndrome, including what causes it and how it can be prevented. Voluntary organizations, such as the American Reye's Syndrome Association and the National Reye's Syndrome Foundation, have conducted educational campaigns to acquaint the public with this illness. Continued public education is essential so that parents and physicians can learn to recognize the symptoms of Reye's Syndrome and initiate treatment in its earliest stages.
To enhance public awareness of the gravity of Reye's Syndrome, the Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 259, has designated the week of November 12, 1984, through November 18, 1984, as "National Reye's Syndrome Week" and authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of that week.
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the week of November 12, 1984, through November 18, 1984, as National Reye's Syndrome Week, and I call upon the people of the United States to observe that week with appropriate ceremonies and activities.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this first day of November, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-four, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and ninth.

RONALD REAGAN
  