
    As part of "American Heroes Week," Edwards honors the people of New Orleans and their dedication to rebuilding the city
New Orleans, Louisiana – Today, as part of "American Heroes Week," Senator John Edwards traveled to Louisiana to honor the people of New Orleans who have shown great determination and commitment to rebuilding their city. Edwards was joined by supporters and other Habitat for Humanity volunteers in New Orleans' Upper 9th Ward for a day of rebuilding the area devastated by Hurricanes Katrina and Rita.
"While President Bush continues to fail New Orleans, the American people and the residents of the city have not. Almost all of the progress that's been made has been the work of the proud residents of the city and generous Americans, working without and often in spite of the federal government. These determined and courageous people are the real American heroes. Their perseverance should serve as an example to all of us of what is possible when we come together to build the America we believe in."
Edwards and his supporters joined other Habitat for Humanity volunteers in a build at the area known as "The Musicians' Village." A project of New Orleans Area Habitat for Humanity (NOAHH) conceived by award-winning musicians and New Orleans' natives Harry Connick, Jr. and Branford Marsalis, The Musicians' Village concept consists of 72 single-family, Habitat-constructed homes for displaced New Orleans musicians and other qualifying Habitat partner families. Its centerpiece is the Ellis Marsalis Center for Music, dedicated to the education and development of homeowners and others who live nearby.
In September, the campaign launched the "Build with John" online contest, keeping with Edwards' promise to create big, bold change on the issues that matter by giving supporters the chance to work alongside Edwards in an effort he cares deeply about - rebuilding New Orleans. Five supporters were chosen randomly from thousands who entered the contest via the campaign website. They are:
Christi Foley is a mother of three and works a server at Ruby Tuesdays in Cincinnati, Ohio. Christi says between working and taking care of her kids - ages 2, 6 and 8 - her days are busy, but when she has a spare moment, she enjoys reading, painting, watching movies and gardening. Her husband works as a systems analyst at International Paper.
Terence Davis is a composer who is best known for his work on National Lampoon - for which he wrote all the music, including the theme song. He has also written jingles for hundreds of commercials and products including Disney, Coca Cola Products, Avon, GE and others. Terrence, who lives in Malibu, California, is married and has two children.
Mark Williams from Colleyville, Texas was born in New Jersey but spent much of his childhood and youth abroad in England and Lebanon. Mark graduated from the American University in Beirut and now works for Delta Airlines. He is interested in Middle East history and politics and wants a president who will pursue a responsible foreign policy in this region. Mark has been married for 30 years and has a nine year old daughter.
Brenda Stone, from Millwood, New York, works as a data architect for a software consulting company. She earned a computer science degree from the University of Florida and was the first in her family to attend college. Brenda grew up in a small town in northern Florida and relates to John Edwards' understanding of the challenges faced by working families.
Sandra Campbell grew up in Detroit, attended Wayne State University and worked as one of the first female advertising account executives on an automotive account. With her partner Ken, Sandra started a landscape design firm in Michigan. After the downturn in Michigan's economy, Sandra and Ken moved to the Keys and opened Florida and online branches of their garden design company.
Details of Edwards' proposals to promote post-Katrina recovery are included below.

An Eight-Point Plan for Getting New Orleans Back on its Feet
To promote further post-Katrina recovery efforts in New Orleans, Edwards has proposed eight steps to restore safety, rebuild the infrastructure, create jobs, and hold contractors and government officials accountable for progress.
Addressing the nursing shortage and supporting the proposed biomedical corridor
Edwards will invest in nursing school capacity, offer up to full scholarships for nurses who commit to working in New Orleans and improve working conditions to keep nurses from leaving and to bring more back. Expanding nursing education programs will ensure access to health care while helping fuel development of the proposed biomedical corridor.
Create good jobs to bring residents home
Displaced New Orleans residents will not return unless there are good jobs to return to. Edwards will make sure the jobs of rebuilding New Orleans carry good, local prevailing wages. He has proposed hiring 50,000 Gulf Coast residents to fill stepping stone jobs dedicated to civic works - rebuilding infrastructure that will help local and returning residents gain skills and experience.
Providing new resources to make the city's streets safe
Edwards will provide funding federal funding for 500 new officers, and help the local law enforcement recruit returning skilled Iraqi veterans. Edwards will pay for the new law enforcement initiatives with an aggressive prosecution initiative to recover money from private contractors that used crony connections to secure Katrina/Rita recovery contracts and then ripped off taxpayers.
Protecting the Gulf from future storms
We are in the second hurricane season after Katrina and New Orleans' levee system is still not where it needs to be to protect the city from another major hurricane. Making matters worse, the president recently vetoed the Water Resources Development Act, which would fund flood protection and coastal restoration projects in the Gulf. As president, Edwards will do whatever is necessary to ensure that Katrina never happens again. That means stronger levees and the restoration of coastal wetlands, which are a natural barrier for storm surges.
Fully funding the "Road Home"
Edwards is calling on Congress and the president to keep their promises to people of the Gulf to "do what it takes" by helping make up the $3 billion difference. A fully-funded Road Home would help rebuild the region by bringing back residents and creating good renovation and home repair jobs. With the program running out of money by early next year, the time to act is now.
Providing affordable housing connected to opportunity
We must both provide affordable housing and end the old racial and economic isolation of pre-Katrina New Orleans. Edwards supports the construction of affordable rental and owner-occupied housing in economically integrated housing close to transportation, good schools and good jobs.
Putting someone in charge
Edwards will appoint a Chief Recovery Officer to channel presidential leadership, ensure accountability, cut red tape and deliver results for the people of the Gulf Coast.
Passing "Brownie's Law," so agencies like FEMA get the job done
Edwards will enact a new requirement - "Brownie's Law" - ensuring that senior political appointees actually are qualified to perform the job to which they are appointed. Brownie's Law will require that heads of executive agencies and other senior officials have demonstrated qualifications in the field related to their job.
  