
    The Rudy Giuliani Presidential Committee announced today that Senator Norm Coleman (R-MN) has formally endorsed Rudy Giuliani and will serve as the campaign's Minnesota State Chairman and Midwest Regional Chairman.
"I have long respected and admired Rudy Giuliani," said Senator Coleman. "Rudy Giuliani and I share a strong bond as former Mayors. We focused on bringing people together to get things done, and to ensure that our focus was on solutions, not problems. I am confident that his vision and his strength as a candidate will give Republicans a strong voice in the November 2008 elections."
"I am honored to have the backing of Norm Coleman," said Rudy Giuliani. "Norm was an effective Mayor and serves the people of Minnesota well in the United States Senate. I truly appreciate his continued friendship and support."
Norm Coleman:
In 1993, Norm Coleman was elected Mayor of St. Paul as a Democrat. In 1996, he joined the Republican Party and was reelected in 1997 as the first Republican Mayor in St. Paul in over 25 years, receiving nearly 60% of the vote.
During his 8 years in office, he led the city through an economic rebirth. In 1997 Coleman led an effort to secure a National Hockey League franchise for the city, the Minnesota Wild, which began play in September 2000 at a new state-of-the-art arena.
Norm Coleman was elected to the United States Senate in 2002. He currently serves on several key committees including the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Nutrition, the Committee on Homeland Security and Government Affairs, the Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship and the Foreign Relations Committee.
Coleman was born in Brooklyn, New York. He is a graduate of Hofstra University on Long Island. He received his Juris Doctor from the University of Iowa College of Law. Coleman spent 17 years working for the Minnesota Attorney General's office, prosecuting cases all over the state and getting involved in a wide variety of public policy matters, including child abuse and drug abuse.
He is married to Laurie Coleman. They have two children, Jacob and Sarah
  