
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Romney Press Shop (857) 288-6390
Boston, MA – Today, Governor Mitt Romney announced that Kentucky Secretary of State Trey Grayson has endorsed his candidacy for President of the United States.
Making today's announcement, Secretary of State Trey Grayson said, "Governor Mitt Romney is the only candidate in this race who has the leadership experience, strong values and vision to lead our country forward. Mitt Romney's campaign is about making our country stronger by creating a strong military, strong economy and strong families. He understands the need to bring Washington back to the conservative principles that are important to voters in our state. The people of Kentucky can be proud of Mitt Romney as President of the United States."
Welcoming Secretary Grayson's support, Governor Romney said, "I am pleased to have the endorsement of Secretary Grayson. We share the same beliefs of lower taxes, less government spending, and strong family values. I am grateful for his leadership and hard work in Kentucky."
Because of his position as Kentucky's chief elections official, Secretary Grayson will not assume any leadership positions within the campaign.
"As 2008 draws near, I am often asked by Republicans, Democrats and Independents who would be the best President," remarked Grayson. "I think Kentuckians should know where I stand and who I believe is best suited to lead our country. I hope that my endorsement encourages many Kentuckians to give serious consideration to Governor Romney and his strong record of achievement."
Background On Kentucky Secretary Of State Trey Grayson:
Secretary Of State Trey Grayson Was First Elected To Office In November Of 2003. Earlier this month, he became one of only two Republicans in Kentucky modern history to win a second consecutive term as a statewide elected constitutional officer. Secretary Grayson has served in a variety of prominent national leadership positions, most notably as Chairman of the Republican Association of Secretaries of State and as Treasurer of the National Association of Secretary of States, where he also sits on the Executive Committee. Secretary Grayson has been recognized as one of the top new leaders in the United States. In 2005, he was selected for the inaugural class of the Aspen-Rodel Fellowships in Public Leadership which recognizes the nation's top young elected officials. In 2004, The Council of State Governments selected him to participate in the prestigious Toll Fellowship Program, and he was recognized at the 2004 Republican National Convention by United Leaders as a "Rising Star" in the Republican Party.
  