
    It is up to us to reclaim our heritage of equal and impartial justice. It is up to us to re-dedicate ourselves to the traditions and wisdom of our Founders. --President Donald J. Trump
HISTORIC RESTORATION OF THE JUDICIARY: President Trump is transforming our judiciary – appointing a historic number of Federal judges who will interpret the Constitution as written. 

Working with the Senate, President Trump has now had 158 judicial nominees confirmed to the Federal bench – a historic transformation of the judiciary.
President Trump has nominated and had confirmed, two Supreme Court justices, 44 Circuit Court judges, and 112 District Court judges.
President Trump has appointed more circuit judges by this point in his presidency than any president in recent history.
Approximately 1 out of every 4 active judges on United States Courts of Appeals has been appointed by President Trump.
This historic transformation is only accelerating, with President Trump on pace to have more judges confirmed this year than in 2017 and 2018 combined.

RESHAPING THE COURTS FOR YEARS TO COME: The judges appointed by President Trump will make a lasting impact on the courts for decades to come.

President Trump's historic appointments have already tipped the balance of numerous Federal courts to a Republican appointed majority.

This includes flipping the United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit from a Democrat-appointed majority to a Republican-appointed majority.
Numerous other Federal courts have been tilted from an even split to a Republican-appointed majority.
The Second and Eleventh Circuits are likely to flip by the end of this year.


Progress has been made in reshaping courts that have long been dominated by Democrat-appointed majorities, like the Ninth Circuit.
Judges appointed by President Trump are expected to give the Nation more than 2,600 years of combined judicial service.
The average age of circuit judges appointed by President Trump is less than 50 years old – a full 10 years younger than the average age of President Obama's circuit nominees.

UPHOLDING THE RULE OF LAW: President Trump is fulfilling his promise to appoint judges who will protect and honor the Constitution and the rule of law.

President Trump is committed to appointing judges who set aside their personal views and political prejudices to do what the Constitution and the law demand.
This work is especially important due the left-wing's push to throw away legal precedent and to abandon the Constitution in order to impose its own radical agenda.
Activist judges have repeatedly used nationwide injunctions to block the policies of the democratically-elected President.

In some cases, these activist judges have blocked the Administration from simply enforcing the law as written by Congress.
These nationwide injunctions are a modern invention with no basis in the Constitution.



  