
    The Rudy Giuliani Presidential Committee today announced that Ambassador Joseph Petrone and his wife Augusta are supporting Mayor Giuliani for President. The Petrones will serve as Rudy's Honorary New Hampshire Co-Chairs, previously holding key positions in the campaigns of Presidents Ronald Reagan and George W. Bush.
Ambassador Petrone has a distinguished career of public service, having served as the United States Permanent Representative to the European Office of the United Nations and Other International Organizations in Geneva.
"Our country needs strong, decisive leadership during these challenging times," said Ambassador Petrone. "There is no question that Rudy is the best candidate in the race who will keep our nation safe and its economy strong."
"We are longtime admirers of Rudy Giuliani. He is unmatched when it comes to solving impossible problems," said Augusta Petrone. "We are very pleased to support his candidacy."
"Ambassador and Mrs. Petrone are well known for their hard work on behalf of Republican candidates and their efforts to build a strong Republican Party. It is an honor to have their support," said Mayor Giuliani.
Ambassador and Mrs. Petrone welcomed Mayor Giuliani and Mrs. Giuliani to their home during a recent New Hampshire visit. The Petrones presented the Mayor with a tree – named in his honor – that is slated to be planted on their property alongside an existing tree planted by former President William Howard Taft.
The couple divides their time between their farms in New Hampshire and Iowa.
About Ambassador Joseph Petrone:
Ambassador Petrone served as the United States Permanent Representative to the European Office of the United Nations and Other International Organizations in Geneva from 1987 to 1989.
Petrone was an Army officer during three wars – World War II, Korea and Vietnam. He was a White House aide during President Dwight Eisenhower's administration and was the Assistant Military Attaché at the American Embassy in Paris. Petrone retired in 1970 with the rank of Colonel.
Petrone served in 1984 as Chairman of the Reagan-Bush Iowa veteran's coalition. He was a delegate from New Hampshire to the 2004 Republican National Convention for President George W. Bush.
About Augusta Petrone:
Augusta Petrone was Co-Chairman of the 1984 Reagan-Bush campaign in Iowa. She also was a delegate to the 1980 and 1984 Republican National Conventions. In 2000, Mrs. Petrone served as a New Hampshire Presidential Elector.
  