
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

Each year, during the week of Thanksgiving, we Americans pause to express our gratitude for the safe and abundant supply of food with which we have been blessed. This plenty has been brought to our tables not only by farmers, but also by many others who play vital roles in our agricultural production and distribution system. As we observe this e35th annual National Farm-City Week, we recognize these hard-working Americans for their important contributions to our Nation's well-being.
Our Nation's farmers are assisted in their work by the manufacturers and suppliers of equipment, seeds, and fertilizers; by those who transport and process the fruits of their labor; and by those who distribute and sell their final products in our rural towns and in our cities. The cooperative efforts of farmers and those who serve in farming-related industries enable American consumers to enjoy a rich variety of affordable, high-quality foodstuffs.
This rural-urban bond is being steadily strengthened as more and more American farmers become suppliers of not only food and fiber, but also a growing list of raw materials for new industrial uses. These materials include grains for ethanol fuels designed to improve our Nation's air quality, as well as starches for biodegradable plastics designed to reduce harmful wastes in the environment.
Americans are not the only beneficiaries of our farmers' efforts, however. Constituting less than 2 percent of the population, American farmers produce food and fiber for the rest of the country and much of the world as well. One-fifth of their production is marketed abroad. These exports provide needed agricultural goods to people in other nations while improving the United States' balance of trade. These exports also stimulate industrial growth and commerce.
Because all Americans, and millions of people around the world, benefit from the work of farmers and persons in farming-related industries, it is fitting that we honor them in a special way during this week of Thanksgiving.
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush, President of the United States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim the week of November 17 through November 23, 1989, as National Farm-City Week. I call upon all Americans, in rural areas and cities alike, to join in recognizing the accomplishments of our Nations's farmers and all those who cooperate in producing the aboundance of agricultural goods that enrich and strengthen the United States.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this fifteenth day of November, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-nine, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fourteenth.

GEORGE BUSH
  