
    Today, Second Lady Karen Pence observed military children with cancer participate in an art therapy session at the new Tracy's Kids Art Therapy Program at the Henry Jackson Foundation for the Advancement Of Military Medicine, located at Walter Reed National Military Medical Center. Mrs. Pence was joined by Tracy's Kids founder, Matt Gerson, and board member, Marcelle Leahy, for the art therapy session.
Kristin Ramsey, a Tracy's Kids art therapist, led the art therapy session and discussed how the mental health profession positively impacts the children. She also shared the effectiveness of art therapy as a psychological treatment for patients. Mrs. Pence also viewed artwork created by children who participate in the program.
"Tracy's Kids Art Therapy program at Walter Reed is an invaluable option for our military children who are battling cancer and coping with the trauma of the treatment," said Mrs. Pence. "Our visit with the children inspired us and it's evident that art therapy is making a difference and giving a new sense of hope to the children."
Mrs. Pence joined the board of Tracy's Kids in 2011. In the fall of 2017, Mrs. Pence announced her art therapy initiative Healing with the HeART as Second Lady of the United States.
To stay updated on Mrs. Pence's visits and events, follow the Second Lady on Twitter and Instagram.
About Tracy's Kids In March of 2019, the Henry M. Jackson Foundation teamed up with Tracy's Kids to support pediatric cancer patients at Walter Reed. Tracy's Kids helps young cancer patients cope with the emotional stress imposed by the disease and its treatment. The program – which began at Medstar Georgetown University Hospital in 1991 – is offered free of charge to patients and their siblings by a team of Master's-trained Art Therapists at Georgetown, Children's National Medical Center, Children's National/Pediatric Specialists of Virginia, Inova Children's Hospital, Methodist Children's Hospital in San Antonio, New York Presbyterian Hospital, and Children's Hospital at Sinai, Baltimore. The initiative with the Henry Jackson Foundation will establish its eighth location. Click here to learn more.
  