
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

Henry David Thoreau once observed that "the virtue we appreciate, we to some extent appropriate." We therefore do well to recognize the thoughtfulness and generosity of all those Americans who devote their time, talent, and material resources to philanthropic organizations and activities. By celebrating their many contributions to society, we reaffirm the spirit of voluntary giving and service to others that is one of our Nation's greatest strengths.
Our Nation's history provides ample evidence of the power of individual initiative and voluntary service to others. For example, private donors and individual volunteers have helped to expand educational, recreational, and employment opportunities for our youth; they have established and maintained specialized programs for senior citizens and persons with disabilities; and they have helped to promote the public health and safety. These Americans have also supplied our churches and other religious institutions with valuable material support.
Each day more and more Americans are becoming engaged in philanthropic activities. During 1989 alone, an estimatged 75 percent of all households in the United States contributed to charitable organizations, giving a total of nearly $96 billion. In addition to such generous financial contributions, many Americans are giving of another precious commodity: their time. Through nonprofit philanthropic organizations across the United States, concerned citizens are donating billions of volunteer hours to others.
On National Philanthropy Day, we proudly express our respect and appreciation for all those Americans who devote their time, energy, and material resources to philanthropic endeavors. Our entire country benefits from their magnanimity and hard work, and all of us can be inspired by their example.
In recognition of those who conduct and support the work of our Nation's philanthropic organizations, the Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 293, has designated November 16, 1990, as "National Philanthropy Day" and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this day.
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim November 16, 1990, as National Philanthropy Day. I call upon the people of the United States to observe this day with appropriate programs, ceremonies, and activities.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this ninth day of November, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fifteenth.

GEORGE BUSH
  