
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate fourteen individuals, appoint three individuals, and designate one individual to serve in his administration:
The President intends to nominate Joey Russell George, of Virginia, to be Inspector General for Tax Administration at the Department of the Treasury. He currently serves as Inspector General for the Corporation for National and Community Service. Previously, Mr. George served as Staff Director and Chief Counsel for the U.S. House of Representatives Committee on Government Reform, Subcommittee on Government Efficiency, Financial Management and Intergovernmental Relations. He previously served as an Associate for Kramer, Levin, Naftalis, Nessen, Kamin and Frankel, a New York based law firm. Earlier in his career, Mr. George was twice appointed to serve at the White House. He first served as Assistant General Counsel in the Office of Management and Budget, and went on to serve as Associate Director for Policy in the Office of National Service. Mr. George earned his bachelor's degree from Howard University and his J.D. from Harvard Law School.
The President intends to nominate the following individuals to be Members of the Board of Directors of the National Board for Education Sciences:
The President intends to nominate Jonathan Baron, of Maryland, for an initial three-year term. The President intends to nominate Elizabeth Ann Bryan, of Texas, for an initial four-year term. The President intends to nominate James R. Davis, of Mississippi, for an initial two-year term. The President intends to nominate Robert C. Granger, of New Jersey, for an initial four-year term. The President intends to nominate Frank Philip Handy, of Florida, for an initial three-year term. The President intends to nominate Eric Alan Hanushek, of California (Researcher), for an initial two-year term. The President intends to nominate Caroline M. Hoxby, of Massachusetts (Researcher), for an initial four-year term. The President intends to nominate Gerald Lee, of Pennsylvania, for an initial four-year term. The President intends to nominate Roberto Ibarra Lopez, of Texas, for an initial two-year term. The President intends to nominate Richard James Milgram, of New Mexico (Researcher), for an initial three-year term. The President intends to nominate Sally Epstein Shaywitz, of Connecticut (Researcher), for an initial three-year term. The President intends to nominate Joseph K. Torgesen, of Florida (Researcher), for an initial four-year term. The President intends to nominate Herbert John Walberg, of Illinois (Researcher), for an initial three-year term.
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the President's Commission on White House Fellowships:
The President intends to appoint Sara Gear Boyd of Vermont. The President intends to appoint Maria Elena Lagomasino of New York. The President intends to appoint Donald L. Pilling of Virginia.
The President intends to designate James B. Comey, of New York, to be Acting Deputy Attorney General at the Department of Justice.
  