
    One year ago, President Donald J. Trump was elected to restore the rule of law and to Make the Judiciary Great Again. Following the successful confirmation of Justice Neil M. Gorsuch to the Supreme Court of the United States and the nomination of more than seventy Federal judges—including five individuals from his Supreme Court list—President Trump today announced that he is refreshing his Supreme Court list with five additional judges. President Trump will choose a nominee for a future Supreme Court vacancy, should one arise, from this updated list of 25 individuals. The President remains deeply committed to identifying and selecting outstanding jurists in the mold of Justice Gorsuch. These additions, like those on the original list released more than a year ago, were selected with input from respected conservative leaders.
Amy Coney Barrett is a Judge of the United States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit. Prior to her appointment in 2017, Judge Barrett was the Diane and M.O. Miller, II Research Chair in Law and Professor of Law at Notre Dame Law School. Judge Barrett also served as a law clerk to Justice Antonin Scalia of the Supreme Court of the United States and to Judge Laurence H. Silberman of the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit. Judge Barrett is a magna cum laude graduate of Rhodes College and a summa cum laude graduate of Notre Dame Law School.
Britt C. Grant is a Justice of the Supreme Court of Georgia. Prior to her appointment in 2017, Justice Grant served as the Solicitor General of the State of Georgia and as a partner at Kirkland & Ellis LLP. Justice Grant served as law clerk to Judge Brett M. Kavanaugh of the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit, is a summa cum laude graduate of Wake Forest University, and graduated with distinction from Stanford Law School.
Brett M. Kavanaugh is a Judge of the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit. Before his appointment in 2006, Judge Kavanaugh was a partner at Kirkland & Ellis LLP, served as Assistant to the President and Staff Secretary, and was a lawyer in the White House Counsel's Office and in the Solicitor General's Office. Judge Kavanaugh also served as a law clerk to Justice Anthony M. Kennedy of the Supreme Court of the United States, to Judge Alex Kozinski of the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, and to Judge Walter K. Stapleton of the United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit. Judge Kavanaugh is a cum laude graduate of Yale College and Yale Law School.
Kevin C. Newsom is a Judge of the United States Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit. Prior to his appointment in 2017, he was a partner and chair of the appellate practice group at Bradley Arant Boult Cummings LLP. He previously served as the Solicitor General of the State of Alabama. Judge Newsom also served as a law clerk to Justice David H. Souter of the Supreme Court of the United States and to Judge Diarmuid F. O'Scannlain of the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. Judge Newsom is a summa cum laude graduate of Samford University and a magna cum laude graduate of Harvard Law School.
Patrick Wyrick is a Justice of the Supreme Court of Oklahoma. Prior to his appointment in 2017, he served for six years as the Solicitor General of the State of Oklahoma. He also served as a law clerk to Judge James H. Payne of the United States District Courts for the Eastern and Northern Districts of Oklahoma. Justice Wyrick graduated from the University of Oklahoma and from the University of Oklahoma School of Law with distinction.
  