
    Says October Was 'Best Month' in Terms of Polling, Money and Continued Media Drive


LITTLE ROCK, AR – Former Arkansas Governor and Republican Presidential Candidate Mike Huckabee said today he had his "best month ever" in October in terms of media appearances, endorsements, debate performances, fundraising, and polling – surpassing all previous indicators of success.
"October has been a great month for the campaign. We're heading into November with tremendous momentum, having outperformed in every category," said Huckabee, who had media interviews this week on every news network. His major appearances included ABC's "Good Morning America," Fox' "The O'Reilly Factor," MSNBC's "All Politics Day," CNN's "Weekend Edition," PBS' "The Charlie Rose Show" – and others. (All told, the governor had 15 broadcast interviews this week.)
On Tuesday, October 30, the campaign surpassed the "One Million Dollar Mark" in terms of October on-line contributions – shoring up growing support with thousands of new supporters. The financial boost came as new polls released show the former Arkansas governor's national numbers climbing into – and staying – in the double-digits.
The campaign's online monthly fundraising goal was also hit on Wednesday, October 31 -- surpassing the amount by $1.00 that the campaign had taken in through all direct mail, on-line efforts, and fundraising events for the Third Quarter combined. Huckabee said his high profile media appearances and favorable performance in four presidential debates in the past six weeks (Values Voter, PBS, MSNBC and FOX), coupled with movie star Chuck Norris' endorsement, and his rise to third place in national polls, have contributed to the campaign's "best-ever fundraising performance."
"I'm grateful to the people who attended the Values Voter Summit and gave me a 5:1 advantage over my nearest rival – as well as to Chuck Norris, and people all across America , like Eric Deussing, who support my message and candidacy for President," he said. Deussing's contribution on Tuesday evening put Huckabee over the one million dollar mark in terms of on-line contributions for the month.
  