
    Santorum Continues Momentum In New Hampshire
Verona, PA - Former Senator Rick Santorum (R-PA) has received the endorsement of three additional New Hampshire state representatives and an influential social conservative leader, as his campaign for president continues to build grassroots momentum in the early primary states. Those who have endorsed the Rick Santorum for President campaign include: prominent New Hampshire pro-life activist Dan Hogan, State Representative Gary Hopper (R-Weare), State Representative H. Bart Hardwick (R-Francestown), and State Representative Kirsten Schultz (R-Somersworth).
Senator Santorum said: "I am honored to receive this outpouring of support from this esteemed group of New Hampshire conservative leaders. Dan, Gary, Bart, and Kirsten have been leaders in their local communities and New Hampshire as a whole, advancing conservatism and the founding principles that make our nation great. I look forward to working with each of them as we build our team for victory this January."
Dan Hogan said: "Senator Santorum has been our nation's most stalwart defender of life for nearly two decades. Senator Santorum has not just checked the box, but has fought and won the fights for the pro-life movement. I am proud to endorse Senator Santorum today and excited to work with his great team here in New Hampshire to win the First-in-the-Nation primary."
State Representative Gary Hopper said: "In my years in Concord I recognized early on that one of the greatest threats to liberty was a big government. I also saw that government grows in response to the breakdown of the family so I have been actively working to strengthen families. This is one of many beliefs that I have in common with Senator Rick Santorum and why I am honored to help. We can't afford to put another politician in the White House. We need a Statesman."
State Representative Bart Hardwich said: "I am proud to endorse Senator Rick Santorum for President because he understands that our rights are given to us from God, and not to the government to simply be spread around. Our Founders understood this - which is why they said each and every man is due the rights of life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. Senator Santorum recognizes and leads based on this principle and I am excited to help his campaign move toward victory."
State Representative Kirsten Schultz said: I have been carefully considering three candidates but can now say without hesitation that Senator Santorum has my full support and my vote. Primary and secondary research has proven him to be a man of honor, integrity, and infinite knowledge on the challenges that we face as a nation. I am confident that he is the best candidate to set this great country back on the right track.
Dan Hogan of Nashua, NH is a prominent pro-life leader in New Hampshire. A graduate of the University of New Hampshire and veteran of the United States Air Force, Hogan serves as a Trustee of New Hampshire Right to life and as President of the Education Resource Institute. Hogan is also a member of the Nashua Republican Committee. Hogan has been married to his wife Judith for over 50 years and are the proud parents of three and grandparents of four.
State Representative Gary Hopper represents Weare and Goffstown in the New Hampshire State House of Representatives. Hopper has been a strong advocate for taxpayers and landowner rights, and has helped transform New Hampshire into one the most property-rights friendly states in the nation. Hopper currently serves as the Chairman of the New Hampshire State House Fish and Game and Marine Resources Committee.
State Representative Bart Hardwick represents Bennington, Deering, Francestown, and Greenfield in the New Hampshire State House of Representatives. Hardwich is a strong proponent of human life, limited government, the 2nd Amendment, and property rights. Bart and his wife Judy are the proud parents of six children, 12 grandchildren, and one great-granddaugher.
State Representative Kirsten Schultz first became involved in politics after the 2008 election through the formation of the TEA Party and 912 organizations. First elected in 2010 to represent Somersworth and Rollinsford, Schultz serves on the State and Federal Relations and the Veteran's Affairs Committee of the New Hampshire State House of Representatives. In addition to her work in Concord, Schultz is also a Board Member of the Somersworth Festival Association.
  