
    Manchester, NH -- The Obama campaign completed another week of unmatched grassroots organizing as voters become more engaged in the race. Here's a glance at the week by the numbers:
More than 800 supporters canvassed New Hampshire towns last weekend.
Volunteers completed more than 140 phone bank shifts.
More than 40 voters learned about Obama's healthcare plan at forums in Merrimack, Rochester, Portsmouth, and Nashua.
More than 30 Granite Staters gathered together in Hudson and Kingston to discuss Obama's vision for a 21st-Century education system.
New Hampshire Women for Obama held 10 roundtables around the state to discuss Obama's plan to ease the strain of balancing work and family.
And Congressman Paul Hodes opened the campaign's Claremont office - bringing our total number of offices around the state to 15.
Here's a look at some of the organizing events coming up this week:
Forums with New Hampshire policy experts and campaign leaders
Voters regularly hear from prominent New Hampshire supporters about where Obama stands on the issues, why he is the best candidate to effect real change, and how to get involved with the campaign.
* Wednesday in Laconia, New Hampshire Campaign Co-Chair Ned Helms will speak about Obama's plan to provide healthcare for every American.
* On Thursday, in Londonderry, Robin Read, former state Coordinator of Renewable Energy Programs, will discuss Obama's leadership on energy and his plan to make the United States a global leader on climate change.
* And Friday, in Hancock, State Senator Harold Janeway will discuss Obama's vision for fundamental change.
Local house parties and organizing meetings
New Hampshire voters continue to share their enthusiasm for Barack's message of change with their neighbors. This week alone, supporters will hold meetings in Conway, Londonderry, Hollis, Goffstown, Winchester, Pelham, and Peterborough.
Learning about Obama from those who know him best
In addition to learning about Obama from fellow New Hampshire residents voters have the opportunity get a personal glimpse this week as his sister Maya and his Harvard Law School mentor Laurence Tribe visit the state.
  