
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
November 5
In the afternoon, the President and Hillary Clinton traveled to Tel Aviv, Israel.
November 6
Following their arrival in Tel Aviv in the morning, the President and Hillary Clinton went to the grounds of the Knesset in Jerusalem where Prime Minister Rabin of Israel lay in state.
In the afternoon, the President and Hillary Clinton visited the Prime Minister's widow, Leah Rabin, at the Prime Minister's Residence.
In the evening, the President met with President Ezer Weizman of Israel at the President's Residence. He then had meetings with Acting Prime Minister Shimon Peres of Israel, King Hussein of Jordan, President Hosni Mubarak of Egypt, and Likud Party leader Binyamin Netanyahu of Israel at the King David Hotel. Following the meetings, the President and Hillary Clinton returned to Washington, DC.
November 7
The White House announced that the President invited President Jose Eduardo dos Santos of Angola to the White House for an official working visit on December 8.
The President announced his intention to appoint Kathryn G. Thompson as a member of the Federal National Mortgage Association Board of Directors.
The President announced his intention to nominate Joshua Gotbaum to be Assistant Secretary of the Treasury for Economic Policy.
The President announced his intention to nominate Norman I. Maldonado to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Harry S Truman Scholarship Foundation.
The President announced his intention to appoint Connie E. Evans, Jacqueline Lee Johnson, Carol Parry, and John E. Taylor as members of the Community Development Advisory Board.
November 8
In the morning, the President had a telephone conversation with Christian Science Monitor reporter David Rohde, who had been released after being held captive by Bosnian Serbs since October 29.
In the afternoon, the President and Hillary Clinton hosted a tea for Queen Beatrix and Prince Claus of The Netherlands.
The President accorded the personal rank of Ambassador to Brian Frederick Fontes in his capacity as chair of the U.S. delegation to the International Telecommunication Union's 1995 World Radio Communications Conference.
November 9
In the morning, the President met with public health and environmental leaders.
In the afternoon, the President met with congressional leaders.
The President announced his intention to nominate Yolanda Townsend Wheat to the National Credit Union Administration Board of Directors.
The President announced his intention to nominate Robert S. Litt to be Assistant Attorney General for the Criminal Division at the Department of Justice.
  