
    Today, President Obama and Senior administration officials met with CEOs from across the health insurance industry to discuss ways to work together to help people enroll through the new Marketplaces as well as efforts to minimize disruption for consumers as they transition to new coverage.
The President said that the administration and insurers share the same goal: getting more Americans covered.
The discussion was productive - the insurance CEOs and administration officials discussed the next steps in working with states and state insurance commissioners to use the new flexibility the administration announced to address cancellation notices going to consumers. Meeting participants stressed the importance of working together to minimize disruption for consumers as well as the need to continue to reach consumers with clear information about their options and choices.
The President led a discussion with industry leaders about the best pathways for consumers to enroll in coverage. Administration officials are working closely with insurance companies on both consumer education as well as fixing the technical issues with healthcare.gov so that consumers can obtain the coverage they need.
Meeting attendees:

Marilyn Tavenner, Administrator for the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services
Mike Hash, Director of the Health Reform Office, Department of Health and Human Services
Denis McDonough, White House Chief of Staff
Valerie Jarrett, White House Senior Advisor and Assistant to the President for Intergovernmental Affairs and Public Engagement
Chris Jennings, White House Deputy Assistant to the President for Health Policy and Coordinator for Health Reform
Mark Bertolini, President & CEO, Aetna
Bruce Broussard, CEO, Humana
Chet Burrell, CEO, CareFirst
David Cordani, President & CEO, Cigna Healthcare
Jay M. Gellert, President & CEO, Health Net, Inc.
Patrick Geraghty, CEO, Blue Cross Blue Shield of Florida
Patricia Hemingway Hall, President & CEO, Health Care Services Corporation
Daniel J. Hilferty, President & CEO, Independence Blue Cross
Karen Ignagni, President & CEO, America's Health Insurance Plans
Dr. J. Mario Molina, President & CEO, Molina Healthcare
James Roosevelt, Jr., President & CEO, Tufts Health Plan
Scott Serota, President & CEO, Blue Cross Blue Shield Association
Joseph R. Swedish, CEO, Wellpoint
Bernard Tyson, President & CEO, Kaiser Permanente
J. Bradley Wilson, President and CEO, Blue Cross Blue Shield North Carolina

  