
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate three and appoint three individuals to serve as members of his administration:
The President intends to nominate Leonardo M. Rapadas of Guam, to be United States Attorney for the District of Guam and the Northern Mariana Islands, for a term of four years. Since 1989, Mr. Rapadas has served as an Assistant Attorney General for Guam. He received his B.S. degree from Pacific University and earned his J.D. from Willamette University College of Law.
The President intends to nominate Humberto S. Garcia of Puerto Rico, to be United States Attorney for the District of Puerto Rico, for a term of four years. Since June of this year, Mr. Garcia has served as the Interim U.S. Attorney for the District of Puerto Rico. Previously, he was a Partner with the law firm of Mehaffey Garcia & Bradford in Beaumont, Texas, and then went on serve as an Assistant U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of Texas. Mr. Garcia received his B.A. degree from Lamar University and earned his J.D. from the University of Texas School of Law.
The President intends to nominate Ellen L. Weintraub of Maryland, to be a Member of the Federal Election Commission for the remainder of a six-year term expiring April 30, 2007. Ms. Weintraub is currently with Perkins Coie LLP in Washington, D.C. She has previously served as Counsel for the United States House Committee on Standards of Official Conduct. She received her B.A. degree from Yale University and then went on to Harvard School of Law where she earned a J.D.
The President intends to appoint Gerald Alan Barnhart of New York, to be a Commissioner of the United States Section of the Great Lakes Fishery Commission for the remainder of a six-year term expiring February 18, 2008. Mr. Barnhart is currently the Director of Division of Fish, Wildlife & Marine Resources at the Department of Environmental Conservation.
The President intends to appoint Harold Craig Manson of California, to be a Commissioner of the United States Section of the Great Lakes Fishery Commission (Official of the United States Government). Mr. Manson is currently the Assistant Secretary for Fish and Wildlife at the Department of Interior.
The President intends to appoint William W. Taylor of Michigan, to be the Alternate Commissioner of the United States Section of the Great Lakes Fishery Commission. Dr. Taylor currently serves as Professor and Chairperson for the Department of Fishery and Wildlife at Michigan State University.
  