
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Romney Press Shop (857) 288-6390
Boston, MA – Today, Wyoming State Auditor Rita Meyer announced her endorsement of Governor Mitt Romney. State Auditor Meyer was elected in 2006, and joins the 20 previously announced members of the Wyoming Statewide Steering Committee in supporting Governor Romney in the state.
"State Auditor Meyer understands that the best ally for peace is a strong America. She has spent her life protecting the freedoms we all cherish as Americans, and I am truly honored to have her support," said Governor Romney after the announcement. "As a state auditor, she also understands the importance of keeping taxes low and government spending under control so that we can ensure a strong economy. I look forward to working with her to get my message of a strong economy, strong military and strong families to the citizens of Wyoming."
Wyoming State Auditor Rita Meyer added, "Governor Romney has a proven record of results from his time in the private sector, to the Winter Olympics, to his time as Governor. With Governor Romney's leadership, we will see tax burdens cut, government spending reduced, health care reformed, and our families made stronger. He is the Republican candidate with the experience, vision and values needed to lead our country and bring conservative change to Washington."
Background On Wyoming State Auditor Rita Meyer:
Rita Meyer Was Elected In November 2006 To Serve As Wyoming's 19th State Auditor. Meyer has served her state and the nation for over 23 years as an enlisted airman and officer in the Wyoming Air National Guard. She attained the rank of full Colonel in July 2004 and is a combat veteran. Meyer has been deployed in support of Operation Desert Storm, Operation Provide Comfort, and Operation Enduring Freedom. She holds the Meritorious Service Medal, the Combat Readiness Medal, the Southwest Asia Service Medal, the Afghanistan Campaign Medal, and the Humanitarian Service Medal. She retired from the military on November 3, 2007.
Rita was the Chief of Staff to Governor Jim Geringer from 1998-2002. She has served on the University of Wyoming Board of Trustees, as a member of Senator Malcolm Wallop's Service Academy Nomination Committee and as an Admissions Liaison Officer to the United States Air Force Academy and the Reserve Officers' Training Corps. She is a graduate of the University of Wyoming with degrees in education and finance. She also holds an MBA in International Business from Regis University in Denver, Colorado, and a Master's in National Resource Strategy from National Defense University in Washington, D.C. Rita is married to Dr. Charles Meyer, a retired dentist and native of Rawlins. They have one son, Charles, a Navy Lieutenant assigned to the Pentagon as a Flag Aide and a daughter-in-law, Emily, an export control attorney in Arlington, Virginia.
  