
    Pool Reports by Alexander Nazaryan, Yahoo News 



Sent:
Reports:




November 29, 202209:20

In-Town Pool Report #1: Flags
From the White House:
"In memory of Congressman Donald McEachin, the White House will fly flags at half-mast today."



November 29, 202209:22

In-Town Pool Report #2: Updated Schedule
Please note that the president's itinerary now includes a meeting with congressional leaders.
Update:
In the morning, the President will convene Congressional Leaders to discuss legislative priorities through the end of 2022.
EST
10:30 AM THE PRESIDENT convenes Congressional Leaders to discuss legislative priorities through the end of 2022Roosevelt RoomIn-House Pool Spray (Gather 10:20 AM – Brady Press Briefing Room)



November 29, 202210:19

In-Town Pool Report #3: Gather
Pool is now gathering for pool spray ahead of the president's meeting with congressional leaders.



November 29, 202210:53

In-Town Pool Report #4: Roosevelt Room Pool Spray
The press pool was ushered into the Roosevelt Room at 10:38 am.
There, the president is meeting with congressional leaders:
https://twitter.com/alexnazaryan/status/1597616834513145863
Note that the vice president is also attending.
The president made brief remarks but did not take shouted questions from the pool.
"I asked for top leaders in Congress to come in and talk about what we're going to do between now and Christmas," the president said. "There's a lot to do, including resolving the train strike."
He also mentioned funding the federal government, the ongoing coronavirus response and the war in Ukraine.
"And we're going to find other areas of common ground."



November 29, 202211:14

In-Town Pool Report #5: Attendees
According to the White House, the following officials and legislators attended this morning's meeting in the Roosevelt Room:
ParticipantsThe Vice PresidentSpeaker Nancy Pelosi, U.S. House of Representatives (CA-12)Ron Klain, Assistant to the President & Chief of StaffMajority Leader Chuck Schumer, U.S. Senate (NY)Minority Leader Mitch McConnell, U.S. Senate (KY)Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy, U.S. House of Representatives (CA-23)Steve Ricchetti, Assistant to the President & Counselor to the PresidentLouisa Terrell, Assistant to the President & Director of the Office of Legislative AffairsGrisella Martinez, Director of Legislative Affairs for the Vice President



November 29, 202212:23

In-Town Pool Report #6: Congressional leaders outside West Wing
Leaders of both parties spoke to reporters outside the West Wing following their meeting with President Biden.
First came the Democrats: Sen. Schumer and Speaker Pelosi, at 11;44 am.
"All four of us agreed we've got to resolve this rail shutdown as quickly as possible," Schumer said.
"I don't like going against the ability of the unions to strike," Pelosi said," "but weighing the equities, we must avoid a strike."
Pelosi: "Tomorrow morning in the House, we'll bring up the legislation and send it over to the Senate."
Schumer: "McConnell and I agreed to try to get it done ASAP."
GOP Leader McCarthy spoke to reporters at 11:54 am.
"I can work with anyone who's willing to work to get our spending under control."
"I think they should stop picking on Elon Musk," he said of the administration and any potential reaction to the recent Twitter purchase.
On Nick Fuentes: "His views are nowhere within the Republican Party and within this country itself."



November 29, 202213:39

In-Town Pool Report #7: USMNT
On the North Lawn of the White House, a show of support for men's national team ahead of this afternoon's critical match against Iran. (U.S. needs victory to proceed to the knockout round.)
https://twitter.com/alexnazaryan/status/1597646507213479936?s=46&t=M9GzJ...



November 29, 202219:19

In-Town Pool Report #8: Additional detail
According to the White House, President Biden's meeting with congressional leaders lasted for exactly an hour, from 10:38 am to 11:38 am.
Those leaders' subsequent remarks were conveyed, in brief, in an earlier pool report.




 
Pool Reports below by S.V. Dáte, HuffPost 



Sent:
Reports:




November 29, 202211:43

WH travel pool report 1 – motorcade awaiting departure
Pool gathered and was loaded into the press vans for the drive to Joint Base Andrews for the president's trip to Michigan to tour a semiconductor plant and promote his efforts to bring more high-tech manufacturing jobs to the United States.
Biden is driving, rather than flying aboard Marine 1, because the South Lawn is being prepared for Thursday's state dinner with French president Emmanuel Macron.
Press secretary Karine Jean-Pierre is scheduled to take questions from pool on the flight. The gaggle can he heard via the WH web site: https://youtu.be/zifXX99aiy4
Typically, this happens at the very end of the flight, after which we are being hustled onto vans for the drive to the event, so pool is not likely to have time to transcribe much from the gaggle (and your audio via the WH is probably more clear than your pooler's ability to hear above the engine noise anyway).
The president is scheduled to deliver remarks following his factory tour, which can also be followed in real time via the White House web site.



November 29, 202212:08

WH travel pool report 2 – motorcade departure
At 1206 the motorcade is rolling toward Joint Base Andrews.



November 29, 202212:16

WH travel pool report 2a — motorcade travelers
Per the WH press office:
Traveling with the President via motorcade en route Joint Base Andrews:
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of StaffAnnie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office OperationsKarine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press SecretaryCarla Frank, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of the Office of Political Strategy & OutreachSheila Grant, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Presidential SpeechwriterTravis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip DirectorMarc Gustafson, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for the White House Situation RoomLee Slater, Special Assistant to the President & House Legislative Affairs Liaison



November 29, 202212:34

WH travel pool report 3 — JBA greeter
Per the WH press office:
Greeting the President upon arrival at Joint Base Andrews:
Col Matthew Jones, 89th Wing Airlift Commander



November 29, 202212:40

WH travel pool report 3b — AF 1 travelers
Per the WH press office:
Traveling with the President aboard Air Force One en route Freeland, Michigan:
Rep. Dan Kildee (MI-05)Rep. Elissa Slotkin (MI-08)Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of StaffAnnie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office OperationsKarine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press SecretaryCarla Frank, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of the Office of Political Strategy & OutreachSheila Grant, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Presidential SpeechwriterTravis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip DirectorMarc Gustafson, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for the White House Situation RoomLee Slater, Special Assistant to the President & House Legislative Affairs Liaison



November 29, 202214:08

WH travel pool report 4 — arrival in Michigan
Air Force set down on the longer of MBS International's two runways, 05-23 (with an approach from the NE), all of 8,002 feet, at 1402 following an 82-minute flight.
In the last half hour of the flight, press secretary Karine Jean-Pierre came to the aft for 22 minutes. She updated on a variety of issues, including new aid to Ukraine to help people restore electricity after Russian missile attacks, for four minutes, and then took questions on the following topics:
Meeting with McCarthyOPEC cuts gas pricesRail strikeSiding with management in rail disputePaid leave for rail workersDebt ceilingChinaTech regsUkraine aid in GOP-run House



November 29, 202214:15

WH travel pool report 5 — motorcade to Bay City
The president emerged from the forward door at 1411 under cloudy skies. He came down the stairs, chatted with Reps. Slotkin and Kildee for a minute before climbing into the presidential limo, mid-Michigan edition, for the drive to the plant.
At 1414 the motorcade is underway toward Bay City.



November 29, 202214:36

WH travel pool report 6 — arrival in Bay City
The motorcade arrived at the SK Siltron CSS plant at 1428 following a 14-minute drive from the airport in Freeland.
The plant is a large, white two-story building adjacent to the highway.
Pool has been positioned in a spot on the factory floor where the president will pass on his tour. This particular room is currently a warehouse but with the plant expansion will be used for manufacturing in the future.
The drive from the airport passed small homes, barns, empty fields, with occasional clumps of residents who waved, before we got on the limited access US highway (75 mph limit).
In town, there were again groups of onlookers waving.



November 29, 202214:42

WH travel pool report 7 — plant tour
The president walked into the room at 1436, accompanied by Gov. Whitmer, and introduced himself to plant workers.
Speaking with a SK employee who was explaining about semiconductor manufacturing, Biden said:
"As might remember we got involved in something called the CHIPS Act."
Now at a small table with three wafers on display.



November 29, 202214:55

WH travel pool 8 — room for speech
In report 7, pool identified the person Biden was speaking with as a tour "employee."
He is, in fact, the CEO of SK Siltron CSS, Jianwei Dong.
Biden: "This is a big deal. Thank you all."
Pool was escorted out of that room into an adjacent one, where we are now holding for Biden's remarks.
There is a stage with a lectern facing a couple of hundred chairs filled with SK employees and local officials, arranged in a semi-circle. A stairway leading to a second level is filled with people as well, as is the railing above it.
Signs proclaiming " BUILDING A BETTER AMERICA" are hung in several places.



November 29, 202215:09

WH travel pool report 8a -- participants in tour
Per the WH press office:
The President toured the SK Siltron CSS facility.
Attendees
Governor Gretchen Whitmer (MI)Representative Dan Kildee (MI-08)
Tour Leaders
Steve Claywell, President of Michigan Building TradesJianwei Dong, CEO of SK Siltron CSS
Participating in a photoline with the President:
Governor Gretchen Whitmer (MI)Rep. Dan Kildee (MI-05)Rep. Elissa Slotkin (MI-08)Brenda Moore, Mayor of Saginaw, MichiganMaureen Donker, Mayor of Midland, MichiganJames Barcia, County Executive of Bay County, Michigan
The President will discuss how his economic plan is leading to a manufacturing boom, growing the economy, and creating good-paying jobs in Michigan and across the country.
Attendees
Local elected officials, labor leaders, union members, and employees from SK Siltron CSS.
Pre-Program
Jae-won Chey, Executive Vice Chairman of SK GroupRep. Dan Kildee (MI-05)
Speaking Program
Governor Gretchen Whitmer (MI)Jeffery Dukes, Apprentice, UA Local 85The President



November 29, 202215:19

WH travel pool report 9 — Biden on stage
The president took at the stage at 1518.
There appears to be a single teleprompter screen, mounted directly ahead of him.
His remarks can be watched through the WH web site: https://youtu.be/E4zaTfpIwgM



November 29, 202215:45

WH travel pool report 10 -- remarks end
The president finished his speech at 1544.
Biden congratulated Gov. Whitmer on her comfortable re-election, thanked local officials and members of Congress, before turning to the central theme of his remarks, the legislation he successfully pushed so far, including the "CHIPS" act to encourage investment in semiconductor manufacturing in the United States as well as the infrastructure legislation.
"Governor? We fixed your damned roads," he said, alluding to a slogan Whitmer used in her run for her first term.
He spoke about the importance of bringing computer chip manufacture back to the country.
"It's a game changer."
"We invented the chip in America. And we got lazy."
"Companies began moving jobs overseas rather than moving product overseas."
"We're not going to be held hostage anymore."
"I've never been as optimistic about America as I have been these last several years."
He emphasized that 80 percent of the new jobs do not require a college degree.
"We have world class, high-skilled, highly committed workers."
Biden spoke to Americans who felt "left behind" by the loss of manufacturing jobs in the Midwest and other areas.
"We're going to leave nobody behind this time."
He said inflation is starting to slow while unemployment remains low.
He said Michigan families are paying $170 a month less than what they were paying this summer, and attributed this to his actions, including his decision to release oil from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve.
"We're laser focused on this, I promise you."
He spoke about the switch to electric vehicles and lauded GM CEO Mary Barra for dropping her lawsuit against California for imposing stricter emission standards.
He spoke about paying for upgrading other infrastructure, including eliminating lead pipes for drinking water.
"No more Flints ever again."



November 29, 202216:07

WH travel pool report 11 — "The US one, Iran zero! The game's over!"
The president jumped back on stage at 1604 with an announcement:
"The US one, Iran zero! The game's over!"
He had meeting with those in the audience for the previous 20 minutes following his speech.



November 29, 202216:12

WH travel pool report 11a — more quote
More Biden:
"USA! USA! That's a big game, man. When I spoke to the coach and the players, I said, 'You can do this.' They went 'eh.' They did it, God love 'em. Anyway, just thought you might want to hear."



November 29, 202216:47

WH travel pool report 12 — departure from Bay City
The pool was led back to the vans at 1622.
The president spent a half hour after his remarks greeting people in his audience, shaking hands, taking photos with them, at the end posing for a group photo with a large number of what appeared to be union employees. The sound system, in the meantime, had Sousa's "Stars and Stripes Forever," the president's walk-off music, on repeat.
No news other than his commentary about the soccer match detailed in reports 11 and 11a.
At 1647 the motorcade is underway back toward the airport.



November 29, 202217:07

WH travel pool report 13 — back at airport
The president's motorcade came to a stop with his limousine in front of the staircase at Air Force 1 at 1704.
President Biden climbed aboard two minutes later.
There were fewer people along the motorcade route, and one group of Trump supporters, one carrying a "Fuck Biden" flag. Nearby was a man holding a hand lettered sign: "Trump lost."
We should be in the air soon, en route JBA.



November 29, 202218:40

WH travel pool report 14 — back at JBA
Air Force 1 was back on the ground at 1827 following a 68-minute, only-slightly-bumpy-flight-at-the-start flight following an exciting short-field takeoff.
The president came down the staircase 10 minutes later and climbed into his waiting limousine.
At 1839 the cars and vans are on the move, back toward the White House.
Per the WH press office:
Greeting the President upon arrival at Joint Base Andrews:
Col Matthew Jones, 89th Wing Airlift Commander
Traveling with the President aboard Air Force One en route Joint Base Andrews:
Rep. Dan Kildee (MI-05)Rep. Elissa Slotkin (MI-08)Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of StaffAnnie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office OperationsKarine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press SecretaryCarla Frank, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of the Office of Political Strategy & OutreachSheila Grant, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Presidential SpeechwriterTravis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip DirectorMarc Gustafson, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for the White House Situation RoomLee Slater, Special Assistant to the President & House Legislative Affairs Liaison



November 29, 202219:04

WH travel pool report 15 — back at WH
The president's motorcade returned to the WH at 1904.
Your travel pooler is handing back to your in-town pooler for the rest of the evening.
Bonne soirée.



November 29, 202219:16

WH Intown pool report 7/travel pool report 16 — lid
At 1914, per the WH press office.




  