
    BALTIMORE, MD — Tonight, following his performance at the First in the South Democratic Candidate's Forum, Governor O'Malley earned three key South Carolina political endorsements from Trip King, John Moylan, and Former State Representative Ginger Crocker. O'Malley's support in South Carolina continues to grow as more folks learn about his progressive track record of actions, not words.
O'Malley for President Campaign Manager Dave Hamrick said: "We are thrilled to have earned new support from Trip King, John Moylan, and former State Representative Ginger Crocker as more and more folks join our call for new leadership. Governor O'Malley is the only candidate with a proven track record of progressive actions, not words and his message of principled leadership is resonating as more people learn about his record. We are in this to win it, and we are thrilled to have these South Carolina leaders join our team."
More information on the new O'Malley supporters follows:
Trip King
2008 Biden South Carolina Director
A native of Columbia, South Carolina, worked for former Senator Ernest F. "Fritz" Hollings of South Carolina for 28 years — serving as Senator Hollings' State Director for the last 15 years of his 38 years in the Senate. In 2007, Trip was named South Carolina State Director for then Senator Biden's presidential campaign. Trip has been active in Democratic politics in South Carolina since 1974, working on numerous statewide and local campaigns, including four successful reelection campaigns for Senator Hollings. He currently has his own consulting firm in South Carolina, working with clients throughout the south.
John Moylan
2004 and 2008 John Edwards for President SC State Chair
John represents both plaintiffs and defendants in state and federal court. He has a diverse litigation practice, handling matters related to the False Claims Act, health care, personal injury, and construction litigation among others. He also represents governmental clients, such as county and state governments, and private clients before governmental bodies. John has been certified as a mediator since 2005 and serves by appointment of the South Carolina Supreme Court as a member of the Commission on Lawyer Conduct. John, who is based in our Columbia, SC office, is also a member of the Wyche Executive Committee.
As an advocate for his clients and friends, John has appeared in publications including The New York Times, The Washington Post, The Los Angeles Times, Newsweek Magazine, and People Magazine. He has also appeared on national television shows including Larry King Live, MSNBC, Fox News, Anderson Cooper 360, and Good Morning America.
Ginger Crocker
Former South Carolina State Representative
Ginger Crocker is a native of Clinton, South Carolina, who served in the SC Legislature from 1978-1984. She was awarded the Legislator of the Year Award from both the South Carolina Education Association and the South Carolina School Boards Association for her contributions to the Education Improvement Act of 1984. She left the legislature when Governor Dick Riley appointed her to serve on the Workers Compensation Commission in 1984 until the early 1990s. After working for the House Democratic Caucus from 1992-1998, she worked in Governor Hodges' administration as the Director of Intergovernmental and Community Relations.
Since leaving the Governor's office, she has been active in Democratic politics in South Carolina, working with the Democratic Party of South Carolina coordinating the Democratic Presidential Preference Primary and then served on the campaign staff of Inez Tenenbaum for the United States Senate.
In 2007, she returned to the South Carolina Workers' Compensation Commission as the Judicial Director in which position she remained until May 2014. She currently works as a Certified Mediator for Mickle and Bass Law Firm in Columbia, SC.
  