
    The Clinton campaign announced today the endorsement of nearly 20 County Supervisors in California, demonstrating Hillary's growing support across the Golden State. The Supervisors cited Hillary's deep understanding of the challenges facing California communities and her 35-year record fighting for change were critical to their support.
"Hillary Clinton's breadth of knowledge and experience on a federal and state level will help counties across California, like Contra Costa, with issues that affect our local communities," said Contra Costa County Supervisor John Gioia. "She is the most qualified candidate to repair America's standing around the world and I fully support her efforts."
"As a County Supervisor in California, I know the importance of experience and leadership when it comes to bringing about change on the issues that impact us the most-health care, environmental protection, public safety and fiscal responsibility," said Santa Barbara County Supervisor Janet Wolf. "I enthusiastically endorse Senator Hilary Clinton for President because I have no doubt that her outstanding experience and leadership combined with her sense of compassion is exactly what our country needs."
"I am grateful for the support I've received from across California," Clinton said. "These community leaders share my commitment for change that our country needs and I am honored to have their support."
Clinton continues to build support among the state's leaders and has received widespread support throughout the Golden State earning the key endorsements of Senator Dianne Feinstein, Representatives Jane Harman, Tom Lantos, Doris Matsui, Grace Napolitano, Laura Richardson, Lucille Roybal-Allard, Hilda Solis, Ellen Tauscher, and Diane Watson.
These endorsements add to the wide support she has already received in California including 29 state legislators including Assembly Speaker Fabian Nunez and Senate Pro-Tempore Don Perata, as well as 112 city councilmembers, school boardmembers and mayors including Los Angeles Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa, San Francisco Mayor Gavin Newsom, Sunnyvale Mayor Otto Lee and Oakland Mayor Ron Dellums.
These elected officials are committed to helping build support for Hillary Clinton's candidacy throughout their communities leading up to the California Primary Election on February 5.
CA County Supervisors Endorsing Hillary Clinton (in alphabetical order):

Michela Alioto-Pier (San Francisco County)
Salud Carbajal (Santa Barbara County)
Roger Dickinson (Sacramento County)
Jane Dolan (Butte County)
Sean Elsbernd (San Francisco County)
John Gioia (Contra Costa County)
Mike Kerns (Sonoma County)
Barbara Kondylis (Solano County)
Mike McGowan (Yolo County )
Victor Mow (San Joaquin County)
Henry Perea (Fresno County)
Max Rodriguez (Madera County)
Susan Rose (Santa Barbara County)
Simon Salinas (Monterey County)
Gerardo Sandoval (San Francisco County)
Gail Steele (Alameda County)
Helen Thomson (Yolo County)
Charles Willard (Tehama County)
Janet Wolf (Santa Barbara County)

  