
    DR. BIDEN: Thank you, Carl. Good luck to you. Thank you.
MR. EDWARDS: See you. Have fun.
MRS. OBAMA: Watch your head. (Laughter.)
DR. BIDEN: Just wanted to say hello and I'm Jill Biden. I am a military mom. Our son Beau is Army National Guard. He was deployed to Iraq, so I have a little bit of an idea what it's like for all the families out there. When we joined Michelle and Barack in this administration, one of the joys that I've had is that -- is working with Michelle. We joined together. We have Joining Forces, and we're trying to create awareness for military families all across this country because you do such a wonderful job for us, and you take care of us, and you're strong and resilient. And I just want to say thank you.
And speaking of strong and resilient, I'd like to introduce my partner, our First Lady, Michelle Obama. Thank you. (Applause.)
MRS. OBAMA: I'm not going to talk long because we want to spend our time with you going around from table to table, but I just join in Carl and Jill to just tell you how excited we are to be here. This is -- both Jill and I, this is our first NASCAR race, and this is a huge race. That I know. It's a big deal. (Laughter.)
And the fact that NASCAR is taking the time that people like Carl and all the other racers, during what is probably the most tense time of their whole race season that they're putting the focus on all of you is just what we want you to know, this is how much your country is willing to step up.
And NASCAR and everyone here at NASCAR, I want to thank Brian France. I want to thank the folks at the Homestead-Miami Speedway. All the folks here have been a part of making this day very special for you. But they are among thousands of business leaders and educators and individuals who are stepping up every day for you all because we all know that we wouldn't be able to enjoy the freedoms that we have if it weren't for your sacrifice.
We know you guys are moms out there -- moms and dads juggling it all alone while someone is deployed. For all the military kids out there, we want the whole country to know we know that you're sacrificing as well. That it's not easy to have your mom and dad away from home for long periods of time, but you guys are strong. You guys are leaders in your own right. You're taking care of your parents. You're getting good grades. And I know you're eating your vegetables, right?
AUDIENCE MEMBERS: Yes.
MRS. OBAMA: Yes, yes, yes, for the vegetables. So we are so proud of all of you, and all of this is for you. Everyone around the country is focused on you. And this isn't just an effort today. Jill and I through Joining Forces, we want to make this a part of the dialogue in this country forever. Whether Jill or I are here or not, whether this administration is here or not, this is about the way we want this country to talk about our troops, veterans and military families forever. We want you to feel that appreciation and that gratitude so that you know your sacrifice is not in vain. People care about you. They care about what you've done, and this is just our way of shining whatever spotlight we have on the sacrifices that you make.
So we are so proud of you all. Have a great day. Have fun. There's that smile. I know it's like too many lights and cameras, but have fun, kids. Make sure you're doing what you're supposed to do, and we're going to keep looking out for you all. So thank you so much. Jill and I are going to come and say hello. Thank you, guys. We're proud of you. (Applause.)
  