
    Cambridge, MA – Speaking at the Harvard Institute of Politics on the eve of the 148th anniversary of Abraham Lincoln's Gettysburg Address, from which we get the phrase ‘one nation under God', Newt Gingrich will defend the principles of American Exceptionalism as the linchpins of America's historic success and as a guidepost for the principles we must return to rebuild the America we love.
"One of the things we must do to fix our job creation challenge is to reassert the importance of the work ethic in America, which is why I am proposing a training requirement to receive unemployment benefits," Gingrich will say.
The speech will follow a screening of A City Upon A Hill, a documentary produced by Newt and Callista Gingrich which explains the historic roots of American Exceptionalism.
As part of his discussion about American Exceptionalism, Gingrich will strongly defend the importance of a limited federal government as key to reducing corruption and reviving civil society.
"The Declaration of Independence says we are endowed by our Creator with certain unalienable rights. We loan power to the government to do specific things. We are citizens, not subjects, and when the government grows too big and too powerful we need to fight back to defend our God-given rights."
He will also speak at length about rebalancing the federal judiciary amongst the three branches of government.
"Judicial Supremacy is a lie," Gingrich will say. "It is historically wrong and dangerous to grant the judicial branch sole authority over the meaning of the Constitution. It is time for the elected branches to reassert their right to uphold and defend the Constitution when the judiciary is wrong."
Gingrich will also repudiate the use of international law in our courts and the ceding of sovereignty to international institutions as threats to the autonomy of the United States. He will also discuss the importance of all Americans knowing American history as a way to preserve our core identity as a people.
  