
    WASHINGTON, DC – Today, President Barack Obama announced his intent to appoint the following individuals to key Administration posts:
•      Michael A. Strautmanis – Member, President's Committee for People with Intellectual Disabilities
•      Lorna M. Johnson – Member, Advisory Committee on the Arts for the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts
•      Lisa M. Caputo – Member, J. William Fulbright Foreign Scholarship Board
•      Elizabeth B. Castor – Member, J. William Fulbright Foreign Scholarship Board
President Obama said, "I am honored that these talented individuals have decided to serve our country. They bring their years of experience and expertise to this Administration, and I look forward to working with them in the months and years to come."
President Obama announced his intent to appoint the following individuals to key Administration posts:
Michael A. Strautmanis, Appointee for Member, President's Committee for People with Intellectual Disabilities
Michael A.Strautmanis is Vice President of Strategic Programs for Corporate Citizenship at the Walt Disney Company. Mr. Strautmanis previously served as Deputy Assistant to the President and Counselor for Strategic Engagement at the White House from 2011 to 2013. Mr. Strautmanis was also Chief of Staff for the Office of Public Engagement and Intergovernmental Affairs at the White House from 2009 to 2011. He was Senior Counsel for Obama for America from 2007 to 2009 and previously served as Chief Counsel and Deputy Chief of Staff for then-Senator Obama. Earlier in his career, Mr. Strautmanis served as Chief of Staff to the General Counsel at the U.S. Agency for International Development from 1998 to 2000. He began his career practicing complex litigation and employment law at Sidley Austin in Chicago. Mr. Strautmanis received a B.S. from the University of Illinois and a J.D. from the University of Illinois College of Law.
Lorna M. Johnson, Appointee for Member, Advisory Committee on the Arts for the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts 
Lorna M. Johnson is Administrative Director and Chief Financial Officer of Advanced Family Care Medical Group, which she founded in 1995. She has been a Certified Nurse Midwife and Nurse Practitioner since 1995 and has practiced at Advanced Family Care Medical Group since 1995. She also practiced at the California Hospital Medical Center from 1995 to 1997, the Daniel Freeman Memorial Hospital in 1995, and the Van Ness Manchester Women's Clinic from 1995 to 1996. Ms. Johnson was a Lecturer and Assistant Clinical Professor at the University of California, Los Angeles from 1995 to 2000 and was named Honorary Consul for Jamaica in California in 2011. Ms. Johnson is the Founder of a non-profit, Compassion for Teen Life. She was a member of the National Finance Committee for the Obama for America campaign in 2012. Ms. Johnson received a B.S. from the University of La Verne and an M.S. from the University of Southern California.
Lisa M. Caputo, Appointee for Member, J. William Fulbright Foreign Scholarship Board 
Lisa M. Caputo is Executive Vice President and Chief Marketing and Communications Officer for The Travelers Companies, Inc., positions she has held since 2011. She was first appointed to the J. William Fulbright Foreign Scholarship Board in 2010. Ms. Caputo held several executive positions at Citigroup from 2000 to 2011, including Executive Vice President of Global Marketing and Corporate Affairs and Chief Marketing Officer. In addition, Citigroup created a membership business, Women & Co., which she led as Chair and CEO from 2000 to 2010. She held senior executive marketing and communications positions with The Walt Disney Company from 1998 to 1999 and the CBS Corporation from 1996 to 1998. Prior to her business career, from 1993 to 1996, she served as Deputy Assistant to the President and Press Secretary to the First Lady at the White House. Ms. Caputo is a member of the Board of Directors of Best Buy Co., Inc., The Sesame Workshop, WNET Channel 13, and New Visions for Public Schools. Ms. Caputo received a B.A. from Brown University and an M.A. in Journalism from Northwestern University.
Elizabeth B. Castor, Appointee for Member, J. William Fulbright Foreign Scholarship Board 
Elizabeth B. Castor is the former President of the University of South Florida (USF), a position she held from 1994 to 1999. She was first appointed to the J. William Fulbright Foreign Scholarship Board in 2011 and was elected Vice Chair in 2014. From 1986 to 1994, she was the Florida Commissioner of Education and the first woman ever elected to the Florida cabinet. She served as a Florida State Senator after being elected in 1976, then again in 1982 and 1984. Ms. Castor has held various leadership positions in education, most recently as the Executive Director of the Patel Center for Global Solutions at USF. She is a member of the Tampa Bay Committee on Foreign Relations and the Society of International Business Fellows. Ms. Castor received a B.A. from Rowan University and an M.Ed. from the University of Miami.
  