
    Pool Reports by Francesca Chambers, USA Today NOTE: The reporter continued the numbering sequence begun on November 10.Reports numbered 1 & 2 can be found by clicking here.



Sent:
Reports:




November 11, 202215:20 EET

Travel Pool Report #3: Wheels Down
AF1 was wheels down in Sharm el-Sheikh at 3:20 pm local time.
It was an uneventful flight that began with extended midterms coverage airing on CNN and ended with extended midterms coverage airing on CNN. (While we slept the TV did turn off and when it came back on first thing in the morning ESPN was airing: even the president apparently needs to know the sports scores.)
No visitors to the cabin during the flight.
Quick movements after this to the tarmac and the International Convention Center, where COP27 is being held, which is about a 10-minute drive from the airport.



November 11, 202215:49 EET

Travel Pool Report #4: Airport departure/conference arrival
As the pool unloaded from the plane, Egyptian officials rushed to unfurl a red carpet at the steps of AF1 for the president.
Four officials in blue military garb with gold buttons and red and gold trim who were holding red, blue and gold flags stood at the bottom of the stairs, two on either side.
The Beast was waiting for the president at the bottom.
At 3:34 local time POTUS deplaned.
He was followed by Blinken and Sullivan down the stairs.
The president talked to his greeter, a woman in a red suit jacket, for a couple minutes before moving on to other officials. (It appeared to be Hala Helmy el-Said. See below for more information.)
They were nowhere near press, and the president got into the beast at 3:36pm.
Ten minutes later, the motorcade arrived at conference.
*Of note: Cell service is almost nonexistent. It's very hard to send and receive emails.
Per the WH:Greeting the President upon arrival at Sharm El Sheikh International Airport in Sharm El Sheikh, Egypt:
Hala Helmy el-Said, Minister of Planning and Economic Development of Egypt
Ahmed el-Ansary, Chamberlain of the Egyptian Presidency Commodore
Mostafa Elbeheiry, Naval Aide d'Camp to the President of Egypt
Ambassador Daniel Rubinstein, Chargé d' Affaires, U.S. Embassy Cairo
Major General Mark Gillette, Senior Defense Official // Defense Attaché



November 11, 202216:06 EET

Travel Pool Report #5: bilat with Sisi
When the motorcade arrived at the airport, pool was rushed into the conference center. Initially pool was blocked from entering the bilat. Much pushing and shoving occurred for press, who were initially blocked at the door, to be able to get into the room during the very chaotic scene.
Bilat had already started by the time that print pooler made it past thick security into the room. Working to get full quotes from the part we heard.
Sisi was talking when the back half of the pool entered.
He said through a translator that there has "always been common understanding" between the US and Egypt.
Biden told him at the end, "I could listen to you much longer."
Sis replied: "I appreciate that." (In English)
Biden said it seems "appropriate" that Egypt would be hosting this environmental effort.
He said Egypt has been a "key mediator" on Gaza, and he said that he appreciated Egypt speaking up at the UN on Russia.
He said he hoped to say the relationship is stronger by the end of the year.
POTUS remarks were then translated all at once.
He answered no questions, including on whether he would bring up human rights during the discussion.
Press left at 3:59 pm and was quickly shuffled into the speech venue.
Quotes TK



November 11, 202216:14 EET

Travel Pool Report #6 -- background information on bilat/POTUS trip
The White House over the course of the last hour passed along the below background information. Apologies for the delay as we work against less than ideal conditions. Fuller quotes from bilat coming imminently.
The President is participating in a bilateral meeting with President Abdel Fattah El-Sisi of the Arab Republic of Egypt.
U.S. ManifestThe PresidentT.H. Antony Blinken, Secretary of StateT.H. Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security AffairsT.H. John Kerry, Special Presidential Envoy for ClimateT.H. Daniel Rubinstein, United States Charge d'Affaires to the Arab Republic of EgyptMr. Jeremy Berndt, Director for North Africa, National Security Council
Egypt ManifestH.E. Abdel Fattah El-Sisi, President of the Arab Republic of EgyptH.E. Sameh Shoukry, Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Arab Republic of EgyptH.E. Abbas Kamel, Director of the Egyptian General Intelligence DirectorateAmb. Bassam Rady, Spokesperson for the Egyptian Presidency
Traveling with the President via motorcade en route Tonino Lamborghini International Convention Center:Ambassador Daniel Rubinstein, Chargé d' Affaires, U.S. Embassy CairoSecretary Antony Blinken, U.S. Department of StateJen O'Malley Dillon, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of StaffJake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security AffairsMike Donilon, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the PresidentAnnie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office OperationsKate Bedingfield, Assistant to the President & Director of CommunicationsKarine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press SecretaryBrian Deese, Assistant to the President & Director of the National Economic CouncilKurt Campbell, Deputy Assistant to the Coordinator for the Indo-PacificRyan Montoya, Deputy Assistant to the President & Director of Scheduling & AdvanceCurtis Ried, Deputy Assistant to the President & National Security Council Chief of Staff & Executive SecretaryCarlyn Reichel, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for Speechwriting & Strategic InitiativesAdrienne Watson, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for Press & NSC SpokespersonAmbassador Rufus Gifford, Chief of Protocol for the United StatesAmos Hochstein, Special Presidential CoordinatorCharlie Fromstein, National Security Council Director of Visits and Diplomatic AffairsStephanie Epner, Special Advisor For Climate for the National Security Council
Also, per the WH, greeting the president JBA last night was: Colonel William McDonald, Vice Commander, 89th Airlift Wing



November 11, 202216:28 EET

Travel Pool Report #7: BILAT QOUTES
Bilat quotes with great help from co-pooler Matt Viser.
PLEAS NOTE: It was very hard to hear in the room – audio was bad and the translator often spoke over Sisi. Please check against video/transcript, etc.
SISI (via a translator)
"Your excellency's visit to Sharm el-Sheik is a great reflection of the relationship and will be a great momentum to this COP27."
"This is also a great opportunity that we can boost the strategic relationship between our two countries"
"Yesterday I had an opportunity to meet with the speaker and several members of the US Congress. We talked about multiple issues"
"I'd like to take this opportunity of having the US media with us to talk about the overall issues of the Middle East and how things are going"
"First of all I'd like to emphasize that the strength of the strategic relationship with the United States has not changed in over 40 years"
"There has always been understanding regarding all the issues…
(INAUDIBLE)
He then said he wanted to mention human rights. "In this particular regard we have a comprehensive approach that I'd like you to listen and hear from us…Because we are very keen on improving this part"
"We have launched a national strategy for human rights. Then we launched an initiative for national dialogue. This was coincided with a committee for presidential amnesty. This is following up on the relevant issues…"
"I don't feel that this would be very much appropriate all of the time speaking while your excellency is here but I just wanted to address in general…INAUDIBLE. Your excellency, I welcome you."
BIDEN
"I could listen to you much longer. No I'm serious. First of all, thank you for hosting the COP27. The region has long, long called the mother of the world. So it seems appropriate" that you be hosting "this environmental effort."
"Thank you for reminding us of this crisis. It is an urgent crisis…That's why we sent our best, Secretary Kerry, who has forgotten more about the environment" than most people know.
Egypt has been a key…strong partnership established."
He said that Egypt had been a key mediator on Gaza
"In the face of Russia's war in Ukraine, Egypt has spoken up strongly at the United Nations and that is appreciated very much as well."
"Today we are also going to discuss a full range of bilateral issues, some of which you referenced…. a strong defense partnership" to doing more on the Middle East to "continuing our dialogue on human rights." He said he was "glad to hear" (INAUDIBLE.)



November 11, 202217:03 EET

Travel Pool Report #8: Kotek call
Pool is holding in the speech venue, awaiting the president. His bilat with President Sisi was ongoing as of a few minutes ago.
Per the WH:
Last night, the President made a congratulatory call from Marine One to Oregon Governor-elect Tina Kotek.



November 11, 202217:16 EET

Travel Pool Report #9: two minute warning
Two minutes to POTUS' speech, which should be streaming in the usual places.



November 11, 202217:29 EET

Travel Pool Report #10: Biden begins climate speech
After a very long two-minute warning, President Biden began his remarks at 5:24pm local time with remarks honoring Veterans Day and US Special Evvoy for Climate John Kerry.
Remarks are streaming on the White House website. Pool is seated toward the back of the room in red movie theater style seats and had not seen POTUS since the bilat prior to his remarks.
Will send additional color as warranted.
Background from the WH:
The President is delivering remarks at the 27th Conference of the Parties to the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP27). In attendance are representatives of other delegations attending the conference, members of international organizations, Members of Congress and the administration, and other foreign dignitaries.



November 11, 202218:02 EET

Travel Pool Report #11: Biden encounter/questions
President Biden finished his remarks at 5:48pm local time.
He was interrupted at about 5:45 pm by an interruption that sounded like howling. Pooler was unable to see where exactly the commotion was coming from.
Biden paused briefly, before continuing his remarks.
On the way out of the speech, pool briefly saw Special Envoy Kerry in the hallway.
Asked how he thought the speech went, he said, "I thought it went great."
At about 5:53 pm President Biden and President Sisi came through the hallway and Biden answered a couple questions.
Asked if they discussed Alaa Abd El-Fattah, Biden said: "What we talked about is the relationship between the United States and Egypt."
Asked how he plans to convince Republicans to fund his climate initiatives, he replied: "Reality."
At 5:59 pm motorcade was back on the road heading to the airport.



November 11, 202218:20 EET

Travel Pool Report #12: Departing Egypt
President Biden arrived back at the airport around 6:08 pm EDT and was already on the tarmac saying goodbye to Egyptian officials when pool approached AF1.
He did not speak to press again before boarding the plane.
AF1 is wheels up for Cambodia at 6:20 pm. A gaggle with Jake Sullivan is expected toward the end of the long flight.
Also, after the bilat and before the speech, the White House says the president greeted the CODEL that was in Sharm for COP27, including Speaker Pelosi.
Participated in a greet with the President:Speaker Nancy Pelosi (CA-12)Senator Ben Cardin (MD)Senator Sheldon Whitehouse (RI)Senator Ed Markey (MA)Rep. Frank Pallone (NJ-06)Rep. Richard Neal (MA-01)Rep. Earl Blumenauer (OR-03)Rep. Gregory Meeks (NY-05)Rep. Barbara Lee (CA-13)Rep. Kathy Castor (FL-14)Rep. Chellie Pingree (ME-01)Rep. Suzanne Bonamici (OR-01)Rep. Jared Huffman (CA-02)Rep. Nanette Barragan (CA-44)Rep. Adriano Espaillat (NY-13)Rep. Sean Casten (IL-06)Rep. Veronica Escobar (TX-16)
More background from the White House:
Traveling with the President aboard Air Force One en route Phnom Penh, Cambodia:Secretary Antony Blinken, Department of StateJen O'Malley Dillon, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of StaffJake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security AffairsMike Donilon, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the PresidentAnnie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office OperationsKate Bedingfield, Assistant to the President & Director of CommunicationsKarine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press SecretaryKurt Campbell, Deputy Assistant to the President & Coordinator for the Indo-PacificRyan Montoya, Deputy Assistant to the President & Director of Scheduling & AdvanceCurtis Ried, Deputy Assistant to the President & National Security Council Chief of Staff & Executive SecretaryAshley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office OperationsEdgard Kagan, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for East Asia and OceaniaCarlyn Reichel, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for Speechwriting & Strategic InitiativesAdrienne Watson, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for Press & National Security Council SpokespersonAmos Hochstein, Special Presidential CoordinatorAmbassador Rufus Gifford, Chief of Protocol for the United StatesCharlie Fromstein, National Security Council Director of Visits and Diplomatic Affairs
Greeting the President upon arrival at Sharm El Sheikh International Airport:Hala Helmy el-Said, Egyptian Minister of Planning and Economic DevelopmentAhmed el-Ansary, Chamberlain of the Egyptian PresidencyCommodore Mostafa Elbeheiry, Naval Aide d'Camp to the PresidentAmbassador Daniel Rubinstein, U.S. Chargé d' Affaires, Arab Republic of EgyptMajor General Mark Gillette, Senior Defense Official




 
Pool Reports below by Erin Logan, Los Angeles Times 



Sent:
Reports:




November 11, 202218:52 EST

In-Town Pool #1: Sullivan and Jean-Pierre to gaggle on AF1 at 7:15 ET
From the White House—
Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre and National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan will gaggle aboard Air Force One at 7:15pm ET (7:15am local time in Cambodia).
We have been encountering some technical difficulties on the plane, and it may not be possible to feed the audio from the gaggle live. If that is that case, we will re-play the audio on WH.gov immediately after the gaggle concludes. I will give a 2 minute warning to ensure folks on the ground know when gaggle begins, even if it’s not able to be transmitted live.



November 11, 202219:19 EST

In-Town Pool #2: Gaggle on AF1 starting now
Per a WH official




  