
    The Hill: Jindal Edges Ahead of Bush in Iowa Poll, 11.2.15
Read the full story here.
Bobby Jindal, the Louisiana governor who has been relegated to the undercard debate throughout the GOP presidential race, has edged out former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush in a new poll of Iowa.
Jindal scored 6 percent support in the survey from Public Policy Polling (PPP), one percentage point ahead of Bush, though within the poll's 3.9 percent margin of error.
The poll found that Bush has the highest unfavorable rating of any Republican candidate in Iowa, with 30 percent viewing him positively and 43 percent viewing him negatively.
Jindal's 60 percent favorability rating, meanwhile, is tied for third highest in the state...
The Washington Times: Bush Trails Jindal in Iowa Poll, 11.2.15
Read the full story here.
In a soon-to-be released poll in Iowa, Louisiana Gov. Bobby Jindal is besting former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush among GOP presidential contenders.
"Jindal>Bush in our new Iowa poll," the Democratic-leaning Public Policy Polling tweeted Monday, teasing results of their upcoming poll.
The Washington Examiner: Cruz Rising, Jindal Tops Bush and Fiorina, 11.2.15
Read the full story here.
The Public Policy Polling survey also shows Louisiana Gov. Bobby Jindal inching past former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush and Carly Fiorina.
Trump received the support of 22 percent of Republicans surveyed, followed by Carson at 21 percent, Cruz at 14 percent, Rubio at 10 percent, and Jindal and former Arkansas Gov. Mike Huckabee tied at 6 percent. Bush and Fiorina each polled at 5 percent.
Breitbart: Poll: Bobby Jindal Ahead of Jeb in Iowa, 11.3.15
Read the full story here.
GOP presidential candidate Louisiana Governor Bobby Jindal is polling ahead of former Florida Governor Jeb Bush in Iowa.
The new survey from Public Policy Polling (PPP) has Jindal at 6 percent, while Bush is at 5 percent. The poll of 638 GOP primary voters conducted Oct. 30 to Nov. 1 has a 3.9 percent margin of error.
In it, Jindal also has a high favorability rate at 60 percent–tied for the third highest with former Arkansas Gov. Mike Huckabee and Sen. Marco Rubio.
Caffeinated Thoughts: Jindal is the Dark Horse Candidate in Iowa, 11.2.15
Read the full story here.
Jindal now leads Bush and Fiorina. His favorability is higher than Huckabee's, and Huckabee seems to be plateaued. I still feel pretty confident Jindal is the dark horse candidate in Iowa.
  