
    WASHINGTON, DC – Today, President Barack Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key Administration posts:
•      Robert F. Cohen, Jr. – Member, Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission
•      Timothy J. Feighery – Chairman, Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States
President Obama also announced his intent to appoint the following individuals to key Administration posts:
•      Audrey Choi – Member, Community Development Advisory Board
•      Nani A. Coloretti – Assistant Secretary for Management, Department of the Treasury
•      Tanya M. Fiddler – Member, Community Development Advisory Board
•      Doug Low – Member, Community Development Advisory Board
President Obama said, "These fine public servants both bring a depth of experience and tremendous dedication to their new roles. Our nation will be well-served by these men and women, and I look forward to working with them in the months and years to come."
President Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key Administration posts:
Robert F. Cohen, Jr., Nominee for Member, Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission 
Robert F. Cohen, Jr. was appointed as a Member to the Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission in 2008. Prior to this appointment, Mr. Cohen worked as a trial and appellate attorney in Fairmont and Morgantown, West Virginia, first as a solo practitioner from 1974 to 1984, and then at the law firm of Cohen, Abate, and Cohen from 1984 to 2008. From 1970 to 1972, he was a community outreach worker at Harvard University's Center for Law and Education, and from 1968 to 1970, he was a community organizer in Providence, Rhode Island. Mr. Cohen received a B.A. from Brown University and a J.D. from Boston University Law School.
Timothy J. Feighery, Nominee for Chairman, Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States
Timothy J. Feighery is the Chairman of the Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States, a position he has held since 2011. Previously, he was an Attorney Adviser in the Office of the Legal Adviser at the U.S. Department of State from 2004 to 2011, and a Deputy Special Master for the September 11th Victim Compensation Fund from 2003 to 2004. In addition, from 2000 to 2003, he served as Chief of Section of the Legal Services Branch for the United Nations Compensation Commission (UNCC). Earlier in his career, Mr. Feighery served as a Senior Attorney at the Federal Trade Commission from 1998 to 1999, a Team Leader for the UNCC from 1996 to 1998, and an Associate at the law firm of Kaye Scholer, LLP from 1987 to 1996. Mr. Feighery served as Co-Vice Chair of the American Bar Association Committee on International Courts from 2008 to 2010. He was an Adjunct Professor at the George Mason University School of Law and at Webster University in Geneva, Switzerland. He received a B.A. from Fordham College and a J.D. from Fordham University School of Law.
President Obama also announced his intent to appoint the following individuals to key Administration posts:
Audrey Choi, Appointee for Member, Community Development Advisory Board
Audrey Choi is Managing Director and Head of Morgan Stanley Global Sustainable Finance, a position she has held since 2007. From 2006 to 2007, she worked with One Laptop Per Child where she focused on international outreach efforts, and from 2005 to 2006, was a Corporate Strategy Officer with Current Communications Group LLC. Ms. Choi served in the Clinton Administration in various policy positions at the White House, the Department of Commerce, and the Federal Communications Commission from 1996 to 2001, including Chief of Staff for the Council of Economic Advisers from 1999 to 2001 and Domestic Policy Advisor to the Vice President from 1998 to 1999. From 1991 to 1996, she was a Technology Reporter, Bureau Chief, and Foreign Correspondent for The Wall Street Journal. Ms. Choi serves on the boards of the Local Initiatives Support Corporation, StoryCorps, Living Cities, The Wildlife Conservation Society, and the Morgan Stanley Foundation. She also serves on the National Leadership Council of Communities In Schools. Ms. Choi received a B.A. from Harvard College and an M.B.A. from Harvard Business School.
Nani A. Coloretti, Appointee for Assistant Secretary for Management, Department of the Treasury
Nani A. Coloretti is Acting Assistant Secretary for Management and Deputy Assistant Secretary for Management and Budget at the United States Department of the Treasury. Prior to joining the Administration, Ms. Coloretti worked in the San Francisco Mayor's office from 2005 until 2009, most recently serving as Budget Director. Previously, Ms. Coloretti served as the Director of Policy, Planning, and Budget for the San Francisco Department of Children, Youth, and Their Families from 1999 to 2005. Ms. Coloretti worked as a Health Financing Branch Budget Examiner for the U.S. Office of Management and Budget from 1994 to 1997. She was a Budget Analyst for the Department of Public Safety in the State of Hawaii from 1991 to 1992. Ms. Coloretti is a recipient of the National Public Service Award, the Public Policy and International Affairs Achievement Award, and the Government Finance Officers Association Distinguished Budget Presentation Award. She received a B.A. in Economics and Communications from the University of Pennsylvania and a M.P.P. from the Goldman School of Public Policy at the University of California at Berkeley.
Tanya M. Fiddler, Appointee for Member, Community Development Advisory Board
Tanya Fiddler is the Executive Director of Four Bands Community Fund, a Native community development financial institution founded to assist entrepreneurs of the Cheyenne River Indian Reservation (Lakota), a position she has held since 2002. Ms. Fiddler, an enrolled member of the Cheyenne River Sioux Tribe, is Co-Chair of the Native Community Development Financial Institution Network, a national coalition she co-founded in 2009. She serves on the Board of Directors for both Mazaska Owecaso Otipi Financial and the Corporation for Enterprise Development, and is Chair of the South Dakota Indian Business Alliance. Ms. Fiddler received a B.S. from South Dakota School of Mines and Technology.
Doug Low, Appointee for Member, Community Development Advisory Board
Doug Low is currently the Executive Director and Vice President of Development for Kidz Express, a position he has held since 2004. From 2002 to 2003, Mr. Low worked as a project consultant at ShoreBank. Mr. Low is the founder of Competitive Strategies Group and served as its President from 1996 to 2002. Prior to founding Competitive Strategies Group, Mr. Low was the Executive Assistant and Senior Advisor to the Chairman and Commissioners of the Illinois Commerce Commission. Mr. Low is a member of the Steering Committee for Strengthening Chicago's Youth. He received a B.A. and an M.B.A. from Northwestern University.

  