
    
  Cornerstone Founder and Former Gubernatorial Candidate Karen Testerman Endorses Santorum for President

Verona, PA - Republican Presidential Candidate Rick Santorum has received the endorsement of Cornerstone founder and former New Hampshire gubernatorial candidate Karen Testerman. Testerman will serve as Chairman of Senator Santorum's "Faith and Family Coalition" in New Hampshire.
Karen Testerman said: "Since meeting Rick Santorum a decade ago, I have observed his unwavering support for the core values of family, faith and freedom. He is the one candidate who is casting a vision for America beyond eight years. Not only does Rick Santorum's record match his rhetoric, I am confident that he is the one who is ready to lead America to greatness. I look forward to working with him towards the New Hampshire first-in-the-nation primary."
Senator Santorum said: Senator Santorum said: "I am honored to receive Karen's endorsement today. Karen has been a steadfast defender of life, family and the foundational values that make our nation great, and she has been a leader for those values in good times and in bad. Karen understands the magnitude of this election, and her vote of confidence tonight is truly an honor. I am excited to work with her as we move toward victory in the first-in-the-nation primary."
Karen Testerman is a leading New Hampshire conservative, founding the influential Cornerstone Policy Research, a family policy organization advocating for the traditional family. Karen has led the fight on numerous family rights issues and has become the recognized "go-to" social conservative in New Hampshire. Karen is the recipient of the Family Research Council's "Family, Faith and Freedom" award and is active in Concerned Women for America, New Hampshire Right to Life, and served as co-chair to develop the Faith Based Community Initiative in NMH. Testerman was the only New Hampshire representative to former First Lady Laura Bush's Conference on Helping America's Youth. Prior to joining the Rick Santorum for President campaign, Testerman had supported Rep. Michele Bachmann (R-MN) for President.
  