
    Memorandum for the Heads of Departments and Agencies
On October 13, I signed the Civil Service Reform Act of 1978. The Reform Act provides us with the tools to make major changes in the management of our government. However, the Act will not cause those changes to occur automatically. In very large part, our success will depend on your efforts to implement the Act's purposes vigorously and effectively.
As you know, I gave a great deal of personal attention to developing the reform legislation and supporting it in Congress. When I signed the bill at the White House, I publicly pledged "to implement the civil service reforms with efficiency and dispatch." I intend to give the same close personal attention to implementing the Reform Act as I did to its development and passage. To assist me, I am asking Scotty Campbell, Chairman of the Civil Service Commission, to meet with each of you as soon as possible to review implementation objectives and needs. We must start immediately in translating the statutory mandate into reality.
Let me call your attention to some of the major features of the Reform Act that I believe offer significant prospects for improving the way we carry out the responsibilities with which we are charged. The Act:
—Creates a Senior Executive Service as a government-wide corps of more than 8,000 top executives to manage Federal programs of all types.
—Bases the compensation of Senior Executives and GS13-15 managers on individual and organizational performance.
—Provides the statutory framework for new systems of performance appraisal within the agencies as a basis for advancement and retention of employees.
—Gives managers throughout government more flexibility and authority in all phases of personnel management so they can hire, motivate, reward, and discipline employees as necessary to carry out their programs.
—Provides employees with fairer protection of their legitimate rights, including protection against political abuse.
Implementation of these and other features of the Reform Act call for your personal leadership and commitment. I know that I can count on you in this important effort and that you will give Scotty Campbell your full cooperation and support.
JIMMY CARTER
  