
    For Immediate Release:
Monday, November 30, 2015
MORRISTOWN, NJ - Influential New Hampshire business leaders and Republican activists Dan and Renee Plummer have endorsed Chris Christie for President of the United States. After meeting nearly every Republican candidate for President to evaluate their experience and their vision for our country, the Plummers called Christie the most tested and best prepared in these challenging times.
"Our country is at a tipping point: ISIS threatens America's security, drug use tears apart our families, and our veterans do not receive the care they have been promised in return for their service. After personally meeting with nearly every Republican candidate for President, we firmly believe that Chris Christie is the best equipped to face these challenges, and we proudly endorse him for President." The Plummers added, "Governor Christie has the strength to stand up for American interests and the compassion to believe in the potential of the American people. The times are too challenging to take a chance on inexperience - and no candidate is more tested and ready than Chris Christie."
"Renee and Dan are not only accomplished business leaders, they are tireless advocates for veterans and dozens of charitable causes directly impacting the community. I am honored they have given me their support," said Governor Christie. "Their passion and enthusiasm will be a tremendous asset to our New Hampshire team."
Renee Plummer serves as co-owner and Vice President of Marketing for Two International Group, a Portsmouth, New Hampshire development company. Plummer (nee Salerno) grew up in Mt. Kisco, NY (Westchester County), the daughter of Sicilian parents originally from the Bronx. As a teenager, she worked jobs at McDonald's and the Waldorf-Astoria but did not attend college.
Plummer moved to New Hampshire in 1982 with her first husband, cardiologist John Riedel. In 1983, she gave birth to a daughter who passed away within days. The tragedy caused Plummer to organize a fundraiser for children in the neonatal unit at Exeter Hospital, which began her long involvement in charitable causes.
In 1998, she and her second husband Danny Plummer began the redevelopment of the former Pease Air Force Base in Portsmouth into an 850,000 square foot business and industrial park. Through her success in business, Plummer became a fixture in charitable causes for children, veterans and the arts.
Plummer became active in Republican politics on the Seacoast in 1995 and served as an organizer for Bob Dole in 1996, George W. Bush in 2000, and John McCain in 2008. She is consistently named one of the most influential people in New Hampshire politics, including a recent article in Politico Magazine that said, "To Win New Hampshire, You Have to Win Renee Plummer."
In 2012, Plummer served as a co-chair and RNC delegate for Gov. Jon Huntsman. In 2014, Gov. Rick Perry brought Plummer and her husband to Austin for dinner at the governor's mansion. In the 2016 presidential election cycle, Plummer has hosted Gov. Scott Walker, Sen. Lindsey Graham, Gov. George Pataki, Sen. Rand Paul, Gov. Jeb Bush, Gov. John Kasich, Dr. Ben Carson, Donald Trump, and Carly Fiorina for private lunches and events.
Dan Plummer is the President of Two International Group, a development company that is one of the largest firms in New Hampshire and has been active in the Portsmouth area for almost 40 years. Over the past ten years, Two International Group has built over 850,000 rentable square feet, with 16 buildings and more than 70 acres developed in the Pease International Tradeport. Dan has dedicated his professional career to redevelopment in Portsmouth, but also enjoys hosting Republican presidential candidates with his wife Renee, a Republican activist and Vice President of Marketing for Two International Group. Dan estimates that Two International pays more than $1 million a year in municipal service fees to Portsmouth.
  