
    THERE is probably no other place in America whose history seems so old and yet so fresh as New Mexico's. Its lands were explored even before the first European settlers came to Plymouth Rock or Jamestown. Its Palace of the Governors in Santa Fe is the oldest public building in the United States. Its Church of San Felipe de Neri in Albuquerque stands witness to nearly two and three-quarters centuries of American history.
Yet New Mexico's vast human and natural potential is only now being unlocked for the benefit of the State and its people. Indeed, the years ahead can and will become the greatest years in New Mexico's and America's history.
All Americans are united in wanting certain basic things. We want to live in peace and to know that our sons will not be sent off to war. We want jobs and expanding opportunities for ourselves and our children. We want to work and keep the fruits of our labors. That is why I believe it is so important that we achieve in the next 4 years something we have not experienced as a Nation since President Eisenhower's time in the White House--prosperity with full employment, without war and without inflation.
Here in New Mexico thousands of people are playing a large part in building that kind of peace by working in occupations dedicated to maintaining a strong defense for America. In the years ahead that could mean the crucial difference between peace and war.
And the people of New Mexico can help to maintain America's strength in the years ahead in another way, as well-by electing Pete Domenici to the United States Senate and reelecting Manuel Lujan to the United States House of Representatives. They know the importance of a strong defense--for New Mexico and for the Nation.
These two men also understand that true prosperity can only be achieved if we can keep a lid on prices and taxes. Manuel Lujan stood up in the Congress for that principle this fall when he voted in favor of a $250 billion ceiling on Federal spending. He knows, as do the people of New Mexico, that the Federal Government does not really need any more of the taxpayers' hard-earned money.
In the coming years, we will face many difficult questions in Washington, questions directly affecting the lives and prosperity of everyone in New Mexico. For your own well-being and for the sake of the Nation, I urge the people of New Mexico to send Pete Domenici and Manuel Lujan to Washington to help make those tough decisions.
  