
    National Diabetes Month is an opportunity to highlight the tremendous progress our Nation has made in treating diabetes, while raising awareness about the lifestyle habits that can help prevent Americans from developing the most common form of this condition: type 2 diabetes.
Over the past two decades, the number of adults diagnosed with diabetes has doubled, with more than 30 million men and women in the United States living with the disease. Even more alarming is that 1 in 4 Americans with diabetes are unaware they have this debilitating condition, placing their health in grave peril. Diabetes is the seventh leading cause of death in America, and we must ensure that we are taking the steps necessary to mitigate the likelihood of being diagnosed with this disease. Currently, 84 million adults are considered prediabetic, a condition in which blood sugar levels are elevated without rising to the level of a type 2 diabetes diagnosis. Regular exercise, healthy diets filled with lean protein and nutrient-rich vegetables and an active lifestyle can greatly reduce the chance of developing prediabetes or, worse, diabetes.
With no cure currently available, medical costs can quickly add up for those who need treatment. That is why my administration is committed to ensuring our health care system does not saddle Americans with hidden or unforeseen costs when receiving treatment. Earlier this year, I issued an Executive order on Improving Price and Quality Transparency in American Healthcare To Put Patients First, delivering on my promises to bring transparency to our health care system and to foster competition with the goal of driving down costs. By working to tackle surprise medical billing, expedite approvals of both generic and innovator drugs, and make health care and drug pricing more transparent, we are ensuring that patients and their families can focus on their health, not on unexpected or unjustified charges.
This National Diabetes Month, Melania joins me in affirming our support for those living with diabetes. As a nation, we resolve to work towards a healthier lifestyle that helps those struggling with type 2 diabetes manage the symptoms and helps those at risk of developing the disease reduce the likelihood of receiving a diagnosis. Together, we can improve the overall well-being of America and live fuller, healthier, and happier lives.
  