
    Pool Reports by Kate Bennett, CNN 



Sent:
Reports:




November 7, 202210:47

#0 FLOTUS pool, background
Good morning!
Your pooler is loaded into the press van for Jill Biden's event today in Ashburn, Virginia. We are told the drive time to the location is approximately 40 minutes.
FLOTUS is delivering remarks at a political event for U.S. Representative Jennifer Wexton in Ashburn, Virginia. Wexton represents the 10th Congressional District and her team is billing the event as a "GOTV rally and canvass kickoff," per the White House.
On background from Wexton's office:
Location: Home of local volunteers Lisa Minor and Joni Lei Isner
Program:Molly Dwyer, Field OrganizerSenator Tim KaineRep. Jennifer WextonFLOTUS



November 7, 202211:55

#1 FLOTUS pool arrival in Virginia
After a 40-minute, uneventful motorcade to Ashburn, VA, your pool has arrived to a home on a suburban cul-de-sac, where we were led immediately to the backyard. There are about 100 people in the yard, mostly volunteers who will be going canvassing door-to-door after the event. Many of them are holding Jennifer Wexton signs.
FLOTUS went inside the front door as your pool was led to the back, and we have not yet seen the first lady.



November 7, 202212:33

#2 FLOTUS remarks
After introductory remarks from Sen. Tim Kaine and Rep. Jennifer Wexton, Jill Biden stepped to the podium - set up in the backyard. Wearing a blue floral dress, Biden thanked the crowd of volunteers.
She joked with Kaine about the number of times they have found themselves at the finish line of a long campaign season.
"How many days have we been together on the final days of an election??"
Biden noted she is ready for it to be over. "You're probably like me, crossing off every day!"Noting, "it really could come down to a handful of votes," Biden launched into her "to-do list" stump speech, in which she tells voters to put getting to the polls at the top of the list of things they have to get done.
Biden said "there is a choice to make between two drastically different versions of our future.""Extremists are putting social security and Medicare on the chopping block. A Republican majority will attack women's rights and healthcare."
Biden closed by telling the volunteers, "You guys don't realize it, but you are the ones who take us to victory. It starts with all of us."
Her remarks lasted about 6 minutes in total.
Biden stayed for some shaking of hands and photos with the volunteers, as the pool was led back to the van.



November 7, 202213:06

#3 FLOTUS pool return to White House
After another uneventful motorcade of about 40-minutes back to the White House, your pool pulled up at 1:00pm.
We did not see FLOTUS go inside, but we did see a leash-less Commander come out from the Jacqueline Kennedy Garden and run down the driveway to the South Portico, presumably to go find the first lady.




  