
    Pool Reports by Nikki Schwab, Daily Mail 



Sent:
Reports:




November 1, 202111:34 CEST

FLOTUS Pool Report No. 1 - Naples departure 
Good morning! I'll be your print pooler for Dr. Biden's trip to Naples today.
We are taking off from the military airport, Mario De Bernardi, which is outside of Rome and adjacent to the Tyrrhenian Sea. It is windy, overcast and 64 degrees.
FLOTUS' motorcade arrived at Executive One Foxtrot at 11:01 a.m.
She got out of her black SUV at 11:02.
She's wearing knee high taupe boots, a dark pink jacket, her blue scarf and a white dress. She's wearing a matching pink face mask.
She briefly waved at pool while greeting people on the tarmac.
She's going down the line of greeters and taking a photo with each of them. She also hugged several members of the support staff.
She put on a navy trench coat before boarding the plane, wrapping it over her shoulders like a certain former First Lady.
She boarded E1F at 11:07 a.m.
We'll be wheels up shortly.
As always, I'll be posting pictures here - scroll down all the way for the ones from today:https://www.dropbox.com/sh/xi6eryhktq28sy7/AABHmjJExdCsYaW60Q1hJDiIa?dl=0
More TK!



November 1, 202112:22 CEST

FLOTUS Pool Report No. 2 - Naples arrival 
Executive One Foxtrot was wheels up at 11:25 a.m.
We landed at the Naples International Airport at 12:03 p.m.
Dr. Biden disembarked the plane at 12:14 p.m.She's wearing the same outfit, sans raincoat.
FLOTUS walked down the line of greeters, again taking a photo with each one.
She got into her SUV at 12:16 p.m.
We're rolling as of 12:18 p.m.
Trip guidance from the East Wing:
Through her Joining Forces initiative, the First Lady is committed to listening and learning from the military, their families, veterans, caregivers, and survivors, including those stationed overseas. Today, she will travel to Naval Support Activity (NSA) Naples for a visit to the Department of Defense Educational Activity school on the base. She will greet with high school students, tour a robotics classroom and a culinary arts classroom, and speak to the senior class and parents at a pep rally. Naples Middle/High School (NMHS) is located at the U.S. Navy Support Site in Gricignano di Aversa, 15 miles north of Naples. NMHS has an enrollment of approximately 540 in grades 7-12. The Naples schools were established in 1951, shortly after World War II. NSA Naples, Italy is a U.S. Navy installation located in Naples, a city in the Campania region of Southern Italy. NSA Naples is host to more than 50 separate commands and approximately 8,500 personnel, and is located 145 miles (235 kilometers) from Rome.
Departure greeters in Rome:o Mr. Derrek Lyons, Operations Assistant, U.S. Embassyo Colonel Daniele Porelli, Deputy Base Commandero Lieutenant Colonel Rosario Porfidia, Head of Operationso Lieutenant Colonel Damiani Simonetti, Deputy Operations and Direct Liaison to USDAO Romeo Lieutenant Colonel Antonio Bertoloni, Head of Securityo Major Gianluca Iennaco, Chief of Aircraft Servicingo Second Lieutenant Fabrizio Blau, Aircraft Handling Liaisono Sub-Lieutenant First Class Gaetano Del Giudice, Head of Gate Security and Base Access
Upon arrival on the tarmac, the First Lady will greet with the following individuals:o Captain Jim Stewart, Commanding Officer, NSA Napleso Command Master Chief Jordan Rosado, NSA Napleso Command Master Chief Jonathan Fields, NSA Napleso Rear Admiral Anthony Carullo, U.S. Naval Forces Europeo Colonel Vicari Vittorio (Italy)o Consul General Mary Avery
Upon arrival at NMHS, the First Lady will be greeted by the following individuals:
arrives and greets with the following individuals:
o Dr. Michelle Howard-Brahaney, Europe South District Superintendent, Dept. of Defense Education Activityo Mr. Luis Dominguez, Naples Middle High Principalo Mr. Chris Beane, Naples Elementary Principalo Mr. Anthony Mendez, 9th grade studento Ms. Mia Dellerman, 10th grade studento Ms. Mallory Smith, 11th grade studento Mr. Keith Roscoe, 12th grade studento Ms. Jazlyn Ballman, 12th grade student and introducer
Classroom visitso Mr. Earl Sexton, the robotics teachero Chloe Cabrera, an 8th grade student,o Chisaraokwu "Chisa" Njoku, a 7th grade studento Ms. Amie Pennartz, the culinary arts teacher
Naples Airport departure greet with the following individuals:o Captain Jim Stewart, Commanding Officer, NSA Napleso Command Master Chief Jonathan Fields, NSA Napleso Consul General Mary Avery
Traveling with the First Ladyo Anthony Bernal, Senior Advisero Mala Adiga, Policy Directoro Michael LaRosa, Press Secretaryo Jordan Montoya, Trip Directoro Erin Scott, Photographero Mike Donilon, Senior Adviser to the Presidento John Scanlon, Associate Director of Policyo Jenna Sumar, Videographer



November 1, 202113:08 CEST

FLOTUS Pool Report No. 3 - arrival and robotics class 
Motorcade passed by onlookers out of their cars with with their cell phones out - and your pool was treated to a view of Mount Vesuvius.
We arrived at 12:44 p.m. and were pulled into the Naples Middle/High School as FLOTUS was greeting people.
We are now in the robotics classroom. I count 20 students seated at desks with computers with robots alongside them.
Biden entered at 12:48 p.m.
"I'm a fellow colleague, teacher," she told the instructor.
She thanked them for making a green and white sign welcoming her.
Students are explaining the robots they made.
"So did you build the entire robot?" Biden asked. "That's pretty impressive."
The class it 7th and 8th graders.
"We didn't have anything like this," Biden said.
The first robot followed a black track, while a second stayed within the black lines - like a Roomba. Both were made by female students.
It's sort of like training a dog, Biden noted, of the Roomba-bot. (I'll pull full quote.)
"Sometimes that's life," she noted when a third student's robot malfunctioned.
"So tell me about the competitions you do?" Biden asked the third student, a boy. "What kind of prizes do you win? How long have you been interested in robotics?" she also asked.
Biden also looked around and noticed that a majority in the class were males. She asked if that was a trend. The teacher said some of his classes skewed more female and some more male.
"Are you hoping this will turn into a job of some sort?" she asked the students.
One of the girls said she wanted to work at Google.
"That would be an interesting job right?"
She was marveling about STEM jobs for women as pool was pulled at 12:58 p.m.
More TK



November 1, 202113:30 CEST

FLOTUS Pool Report No. 4 - cooking class 
Dr. Biden walked into culinary class 1:02 p.m.
Pooler counted eight students in white chef's tops and green aprons.
The instructor told her what they were cooking and she went to wash her hands to help. She also put on gloves.
"I'm used to Italian cooking," she said.
"Great … I love coming to Italy," she said putting on a green apron, as the instructor asked about her trip so far. She mentioned her Italian grandfather and again said they cooked Italian.
"I do need help," a student said, beckoning Biden over to the ravioli station.
Biden spoke of her grandmother:
"She would cook the noodles and then they would hang in her kitchen," she said.
FLOTUS brushed the ravioli dough and then cut the noodles out.
"So what are you putting inside of here?" she asked. "And do you have any herbs in there?"
A student told her four cheeses - and said he didn't know about the herbs.
She and a female student modeled their ravioli for the cameras.
"I used to make homemade pasta all the time for dinner," Biden also noted.
She watched as the female student pressed dough through a machine.
They held up the whole baking sheet of ravioli and walked over to the pool.
"Do you have a meal together?" Biden asked the students about what they did when the food was cooked. "Sometimes," the female student answered.
"So will you go home and make it for your parents?" she asked the male student.
"Probably not," he replied to her. "It's too much."
"What do you mean it's too much?" she said.
"Wouldn't it be great to surprise your parents to a meal after work?" she encouraged him.
The instructor then presented FLOTUS with a chef's pin that the students get for their lettermen's jackets.
"Looks like your doughnuts came out beautifully," she said. "Take them over to the press."
"Really they're wonderful right?" Biden said, after a pink-haired student shyly walked the plate of sweets over to the pool.
"Nice to meet all of you!" Biden said asking the students what grades they are in. "Thanks for letting me into your kitchen."
She then posed for a group photo with the kids. Pool was pulled at 1:18 p.m.
More TK



November 1, 202114:06 CEST

FLOTUS Pool Report No. 5 - remarks, as prepared for delivery 
The East Wing sends along FLOTUS' planned speech. We're in the school's gym awaiting her to arrive at the pep rally.
**EXCERPTS**Remarks as Prepared for DeliveryFirst Lady Jill BidenMiddle High School, Department of Defense Education Activity SchoolNaples, ItalyNovember 1, 2021
***Thank you, Jazlyn. There are many different types of service—and as Commanding Officer of the Junior ROTC program, you are a leader here at Naples. But I'm also so glad you plan to continue to serve by becoming a teacher and helping other military kids like yourself.
Good afternoon, Wildcats! As a graduate of Villanova, I am a Wildcat, too, so I'm especially excited to be here—and to see all of this school spirit!
Before I start, I want to congratulate the volleyball teams on a great job in the championship this weekend, and the football team for their big win. You've all made your school so proud!
The Bidens are a military family. In fact, my father served as a Navy Signalman in World War II—though it was before I was born.
And my son, Beau, was a Major in the Delaware Army National Guard. Beau served in Iraq for a year, and when he was deployed, I saw the challenges my grandkids faced. His son, Hunter, was just a baby, but his daughter, Natalie, was old enough to miss him, every day.
Like many of your families, we all did our best to make up for his absence... with video calls to her dad and extra big birthday celebrations. Her teacher even put up a photograph of Beau's unit, so she could see him when she was at school. It meant so much that her whole class knew he was courageously serving his country.
But we couldn't fill the empty chair at dinner time. No one could but her daddy.
I once asked Natalie what she would tell a child like herself, whose mom or dad was going to be deployed, and she said, "Nana, I wouldn't tell her anything because I wouldn't want her to be sad."
Not everyone knows what it's like to be in your shoes. You face unique challenges—and your stories don't always get told.
So when I was Second Lady, I wrote a book for kids like my grandchildren, called "Don't Forget, God Bless Our Troops." And I launched the Joining Forces initiative, to support military and veteran families, caregivers, and survivors. One of our main goals was to help people understand what it's like to be a military student and to get kids like you the support you deserve.
I've worked on supporting military families for ten years now. And on bases and at schools like this one… at the White House and in communities across the United States… I've heard your stories.
I've heard what it's like to work so hard to become captain of your sports team or the lead in your school play… only to say good bye and realize your next school doesn't have the program you love.
What it's like to leave behind best friends and wonder if you'll be able to keep in touch.
What it's like to stay up late, worrying about the safety of someone you love most in the world.
But I've also heard about the great parts of this journey:
The chance to experience life in a foreign country and meet people from around the world.
Friendships that are close enough to span the many miles between you—that take more work than walking next door, but are worth it, just the same.
Learning to adapt to any situation and finding you are capable of more than you thought.
This life is unlike any other. You face different challenges from most kids your age—challenges your parents and teachers can't shield you from, no matter how hard we try.
Parents, I know there have been moments when you've asked yourself if you made the right choice for your child during your service. Maybe it was re-enlisting, knowing that it would mean yet another elementary school... or watching them have to make new friends all over again.
And yet, when you look at them today, I hope that question is answered for you.
I hope you see how the path you've chosen has made them the incredible people they have become—people who are ready for whatever the world has in store for them. Isn't that what all parents want for our children?
Military students are unique. That's your strength.
The lessons you've learned have made you strong, wise, kind, and courageous. The experiences you've had are the gifts you have to give. You have so much to teach us all.
And that's why we have to tell your stories. So, today, I'd like to hear from you.



November 1, 202114:20 CEST

FLOTUS Pool Report No. 6 - pep rally/Q&A with the kids 
The school's gymnasium is set up for a pep rally. Students are in socially distanced black chairs. The room has a lot of green and white banners and other features - the school colors for the Naples Middle/High School Wildcats.
A small band is set up with several students on electric guitars. A chorus is also standing to the side of the room.
To warm up, students are doing a Naples Wildcats cheer with a lot of clapping and stomping. Then the band played a song.
FLOTUS walked into the room at 1:41 p.m . I sent along her planned remarks in the previous pool report. The band played a little riff as students cheered and stomped upon her arrival
She's being introduced by Jazlyn Ballman.
Ballman complimented Biden for working in a "constantly changing education environment" as she went through the first lady's resume as a teacher – then noting the 2011 launch of Joining Forces.
The first lady wrapped her arms around Ballman before starting her speech.
Biden's speech opened by talking about how hard it was for Beau's kids when he was in Iraq.
"Because she was the only child in that school who had a father who was deployed," she said of Beau's daughter Natalie, noting how her teacher put a photo of Beau's unit in the classroom.
She then broadened it to the challenges all military families face.
Biden then left the podium and asked if any of the students wanted to talk about it.
"Look at this, all the girls are raising their hands. What's a matter with you guy?" she said, handing her mic to a young woman who talked about some of the challenges of moving around.
"I almost cried during your speech," the girl said, Biden then embraced her.
A second female student said she was born in Naples, but has been plagued with friends moving all the time.
"I should go to a guy," Biden said. She handed the mic to a football player.
"You can see he has no confidence. He's like talking to the crowd ignoring me," she joked as he introduced himself. That student talked about being born in Iceland.
A student with a British accent said she wasn't American, but English, but said it was still a pleasure to meet the American first lady.
"Everyone speaks American, obviously," she said of her challenges.
"What you mean? We all wish we had your accent," Biden replied.
Another male student talked about being born in Spain, but living in Italy, but being American.
The next student, in the band, talked about being bullied for being gay, and being thrown in a trashcan at his last school. "They called me the F-word, I won't say it," he said."Thank you," Biden replied. "It's pretty offensive," he added.
"It's a warmth," he said about his experience at Naples Middle/High School.
She then walked over to the students in the choir.
A girl there talked about, "Italians making fun of me for being American and Americans making fun of me for being Italian." She also sang the school praises for being more tolerant.
"Can I just say to the parents in closing . You've heard your kids stories, you see how strong and resilient they are. … This truly is a family at this school. I want to thank you so much for asking me to be your guest," Biden said.
Walking out at 2:05.



November 1, 202114:53 CEST

FLOTUS Pool Report No. 7 - Naples departure 
FLOTUS was saying goodbyes at her SUV as of 2:07 p.m. Motorcade departed at 2:09 p.m.
We pulled into the military side of the Naples International Airport at 2:40 p.m.
She walked out of the SUV at 2:42 p.m. and immediately walked over to the greeters. She took a group picture with one group and then moved to another. She didn't turn back when pool asked her thoughts on the trip. She waved at the top of the stairs and was on the plane at 2:44 p.m. She made it just before it started to rain.
Your pooler is staying in Italy (hooray!) and thus will not file a report when Biden's wheels down at JBA.
Please feel free to reach out if you have any questions! Have a great day!




  