
    To the Senate of the United States:
I transmit herewith, for the advice and consent of the Senate to ratification, the Convention on Biological Diversity, with Annexes, done at Rio de Janeiro, June 5, 1992, and signed by the United States in New York on June 4, 1993. The report of the Department of State is also enclosed for the information of the Senate.
The final text of the Convention was adopted in Nairobi by the Intergovernmental Negotiating Committee for a Convention on Biological Diversity (INC) on May 22, 1992. The INC was preceded by three technical meetings of an Ad Hoc Working Group of Experts on Biological Diversity and two meetings of an Ad Hoc Working Group of Legal and Technical Experts. Five sessions of the INC were held, from June 1991 to May 1992. The Convention was opened for signature at the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development in Rio de Janeiro on June 5, 1992.
The Convention is a comprehensive agreement, addressing the many facets of biological diversity. It will play a major role in stemming the loss of the earth's species, their habitats, and ecosystems through the Convention's obligations to conserve biodiversity and sustainably use its components as well as its provisions that facilitate access to genetic resources and access to and transfer of technology so crucial to longterm sustainable development of the earth's biological resources. The Convention will also create a much needed forum for focusing international activities and setting global priorities on biological diversity.
The objectives of the Convention as set forth therein are the conservation of biological diversity, the sustainable use of its components, and the fair and equitable sharing of benefits arising out of the utilization of genetic resources. These objectives are implemented through specific provisions that address, inter alia, identification and monitoring, in situ and ex situ conservation, sustainable use, research and training, public education and awareness, impact assessment, access to genetic resources, access to and transfer of technology, technical and scientific cooperation, handling of biotechnology and distribution of its benefits, and financing.
Economic incentives will help all Parties achieve the environmental benefits of conservation and sustainable use of biological diversity. The Administration thus supports the concept that benefits stemming from the use of genetic resources should flow back to those nations that act to conserve biological diversity and provide access to their genetic resources. We will strive to realize this objective of the Convention. As recognized in the Convention, the adequate and effective protection of intellectual property rights is another important economic incentive that encourages the development of innovative technologies, improving all Parties' ability to conserve and sustainably use biological resources. The Administration will therefore strongly resist any actions taken by Parties to the Convention that lead to inadequate levels of protection of intellectual property rights, and will continue to pursue a vigorous policy with respect to the adequate and effective protection of intellectual property rights in negotiations on bilateral and multilateral trade agreements. In this regard, the report of the Department of State provides a detailed statement of the Administration's position on those provisions of the Convention that relate to intellectual property rights.
Biological diversity conservation in the United States is addressed through a tightly woven partnership of Federal, State, and private sector programs in management of our lands and waters and their resident and migratory species. There are hundreds of State and Federal laws and programs and an extensive system of Federal and State wildlife refuges, marine sanctuaries, wildlife management areas, recreation areas, parks, and forests. These existing programs and authorities are considered sufficient to enable any activities necessary to effectively implement our responsibilities under the Convention. The Administration does not intend to disrupt the existing balance of Federal and State authorities through this Convention. Indeed, the Administration is committed to expanding and strengthening these relationships. We look forward to continued cooperation in conserving biological diversity and in promoting the sustainable use of its components.
The Convention will enter into force on December 29, 1993. Prompt ratification will demonstrate the United States commitment to the conservation and sustainable use of biological diversity and will encourage other countries to do likewise. Furthermore, in light of the rapid entry into force of the Convention, early ratification will best allow the United States to fully represent its national interest at the first Conference of the Parties.
I recommend that the Senate give early and favorable consideration to this Convention and give its advice and consent to ratification, subject to the understandings described in the accompanying report of the Secretary of State.
WILLIAM J. CLINTON
The White House, November 19, 1993.
  