
    Biden spent the day spreading misinformation and lies in Philadelphia
BIDEN: "I know Philadelphia well. I married a Philly girl by the way and by the way got my Eagle's jacket on."
FACT: Biden's jacket featured a University of Delaware Blue Hens logo, not the trademark midnight green, silver, and black of the Philadelphia Eagles.

On top of his failed attempt to appeal to Pennsylvania's voters, Biden went to the University of Delaware, meaning he forgot what his own college's mascot looked like.
Biden hasn't called Pennsylvania home since 1953.

BIDEN: "Under my plan, this is the God's truth, if you make less than $400,000 bucks a year you're not going to pay a penny more in taxes, not one penny, I promise you."
FACT: Biden's $4 trillion tax hike will raise taxes on 82 percent of Americans, including those making under $400,000, but even this historically large tax hike fails to cover the costs of his far-left policies.

Biden's $4 trillion tax hike is the largest proposed tax hike in recent history.
Five independent analyses have concluded that Biden would reduce after-tax incomes for those making under $400,000.
The Tax Policy Center concluded Biden's "proposals would increase taxes on average on all income groups."
The Tax Foundation concluded Biden's plan would lead to higher taxes "across all income groups."
The American Enterprise Institute concluded that "households at every income level" would see higher taxes.
A Penn Wharton budget model analysis concluded that taxes would go up across all income levels.
The Committee For A Responsible Federal Budget concluded that taxes would go up across all income levels.

BIDEN: "[President Trump] paid $750 in federal income tax."
FACT: This is false; President Trump personally paid millions of dollars in taxes in 2016 and 2017.

A Trump Organization spokesman has directly said that "most, if not all, of the facts appear to be inaccurate" in The New York Times' reporting on the President's taxes.
The Times'reporting is incorrect; the President paid $7.4 million in federal taxes in 2017, not $750.
The Times' article ignores millions of dollars the President has paid in payroll, property, and other taxes, along with state and local taxes he has paid.

BIDEN: "Trump and his Republican friends just jammed through a Supreme Court nominee – you know why? They've been trying since the day we passed the act – they've been trying to destroy the Affordable Care Act."
FACT: This is false; Judge Barrett has not expressed a view about the constitutionality of Obamacare or about the current case pending before the Supreme Court.

Judge Amy Coney Barrett has not ruled on Obamacare, taking a firm position that a Judge's role is to interpret the law, not to legislate from the bench.

BIDEN: "And by the way, it's been confirmed, by all places, Wall Street, Moody's on Wall Street, said Biden's plan will create 18.6 million jobs, good paying jobs."
FACT: The outfit Biden cited – Moody's – has a history of drastically underestimating the positive effects of President Trump's economic policies.

In 2016, Moody's estimated then-candidate Trump's economic plans would lead to higher unemployment rates under every scenario; in fact, the unemployment rate fell to a half-century low under President Trump before the pandemic hit.
Moody's drastically underestimated job growth and the increase in the stock market that has happened under President Trump.

BIDEN: "Folks, we can keep the private insurance if you choose to or choose the Medicare-like option."
FACT:Biden's public option will end up destroying private health insurance, crowding out these plans with a subsidized government-run health plan.

Biden's "public option" will jeopardize the private insurance plans held by millions of Americans, a fact that President Obama himself acknowledged in 2009.
Obamacare architect Jonathan Gruber conducted a study confirming that a public option would crowd out private health insurance plans, and later said "if the Democrats are right...it'll wipe out the private choice."
The Obama-Biden Administration made the same promise – that Americans could keep their private insurance if they wanted – when they passed Obamacare, a lie which later earned "Lie of the Year".


Biden is campaigning on a healthcare agenda that would cancel health plans, raise taxes, skyrocket premiums, jeopardize rural hospitals, and bring America closer to a disastrous government-run healthcare system.


Biden's running mate Kamala Harris has even openly said she supports eliminating private insurance.

BIDEN: "The actuary for Social Security, full-time Social Security Administration says if Donald Trump plan [sic], were he to be re-elected, gets put in place, it would bankrupt Social Security by 2023."
FACT: This attack from Biden is false and has previously been debunked by fact checkers. The President's payroll tax deferral will not harm Social Security.

The Washington Post's Fact Checker gave Biden's attack "Four Pinocchios," saying Biden and other "Democrats ginned up a letter from [Social Security's] chief actuary to describe a plan that does not currently exist."
FactCheck.org and USA Todayhave debunked this and similar claims from Biden's campaign and his allies.
President Trump wants to make the payroll tax deferral permanent next year, making this deferral a cut "without in any way, shape, or form hurting Social Security."
The President has said he would use the Treasury Department's general fund to reimburse Social Security's trust fund, ensuring zero impact on our nation's seniors.
Biden's attack is not only false, it is hypocritical.
In 2011, Biden wrote an op-ed touting a bill Obama signed to cut the payroll tax, specifically saying it was "misinformation" to suggest a payroll tax cut hurt Social Security's solvency.
President Trump has promised to always protect Social Security, unlike Biden who bragged in the 1990s about his efforts to "freeze" benefits.

BIDEN: "This is a president who won't even stand up to Vladimir Putin for putting bounties on the head of American soldiers serving in Afghanistan."
FACT: This is false. Top military and intelligence officials have strongly emphasized that the reporting of bounties is unproven, and the Trump Administration has taken strong action against Russia.

In July, Defense Secretary Mark Esper said "all the defense intel agencies have been unable to corroborate that report."
In September, General Frank McKenzie Commander of U.S Central Command said that when it comes to evidence about bounties being placed on the heads of American service members "I just haven't seen it."
Regardless, Secretary of State Mike Pompeo warned Russia that there would be "an enormous price to pay" if any such bounties existed.
President Trump and his administration have been tougher on Russia than any past administration, a fact confirmed by Obama-Biden Secretary of Defense Robert Gates.
President Trump has repeatedly pushed back against Russian attempts to threaten American institutions, including imposing sanctions on hundreds of individuals and entities suspected of attempted election interference.
To hold Russia accountable for their repeated violations, President Trump withdrew the United States from both the Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces (INF) Treaty and Open Skies Treaty.
The Trump Administration imposed harsh penalties in response to Russia's evasion of sanctions against North Korea, Syria, Iran, and Venezuela.
President Trump placed strong sanctions on the Nord Stream 2 pipeline, warning Germany and other nations about the dangers of relying on Russian energy.

BIDEN: "But I think there's nothing worse than he's said or done than the way he's spoken about those of you who have served in uniform. Guess what, man, he talks about you being losers and suckers."
FACT:At least 14 officials who were on the 2018 trip to France with President Trump have gone on the record to refute the anonymous sources and allegations in The Atlantic article:

Sarah Sanders, former White House Press Secretary: "The Atlantic story on @realDonaldTrump is total BS. I was actually there and one of the people part of the discussion - this never happened."
Hogan Gidley, former White House Deputy Press Secretary: "These are disgusting, grotesque, reprehensible lies. I was there in Paris and the President never said those things."
Dan Scavino, White House Deputy Chief Of Staff for Communications: "I was with POTUS in France, with Sarah, and have been at his side throughout it all. Complete lies by 'anonymous sources'…"
Jordan Karem, former Personal Aide to President Trump: "This is not even close to being factually accurate. plain and simple, it just never happened."
Karem: "Again, this is 100% false. I was next to @POTUS the whole day! The President was greatly disappointed when told we couldn't fly there. He was incredibly eager to honor our Fallen Heroes."
Johnny DeStefano, former Counselor to the President: "I was on this trip. The Atlantic bit is not true. Period."
John Bolton, former National Security Advisor: "'I didn't hear that,' Mr. Bolton said in an interview. 'I'm not saying he didn't say them later in the day or another time but I was there for that discussion.'"
Stephen Miller, White House Senior Adviser: The accusation is a "despicable lie … The president deeply wanted to attend the memorial event in question and was deeply displeased by the bad weather call."
Tony Ornato, White House Deputy Chief of Staff and then-Head of the Secret Service's Presidential Protective Detail has said the story is false. 
Derek Lyons, Staff Secretary and Counselor to the President: "I was with the President the morning after the scheduled visit. He was extremely disappointed that arrangements could not be made to get him to the site, and that the trip had been cancelled."
Dan Walsh, former White House Deputy Chief Of Staff: "I can attest to the fact that there was a bad weather call in France, and that the helicopters were unable to safely make the flight."
Zach Fuentes, former White House Deputy Chief of Staff: "I did not hear POTUS call anyone losers when I told him about the weather."
First Lady Melania Trump: "@TheAtlantic story is not true. It has become a very dangerous time when anonymous sources are believed above all else, & no one knows their motivation. This is not journalism - It is activism. And it is a disservice to the people of our great nation."
Jamie McCourt, U.S. Ambassador to France and Monaco: "In my presence, POTUS has NEVER denigrated any member of the U.S. military or anyone in service to our country. And he certainly did not that day, either. Let me add, he was devastated to not be able to go to the cemetery at Belleau Wood. In fact, the next day, he attended and spoke at the ceremony in Suresnes in the pouring rain."
Major General William Matz (ret.), Secretary of the American Battle Monuments Commission: "I was the host of the event discussed by the false and despicable article published in The Atlantic magazine on 3 September. On 10 November 2018, I was at the Aisne-Marne American Cemetery awaiting the arrival of President Trump. As a former Army infantryman who has flown on many helicopters, I knew that morning the weather was bad and the ceiling was too low for a safe landing that day. When the President's visit was appropriately canceled due to weather, I received word also that he was upset he would not be able to make the wreath-laying visit and to pay his respect to the 2300 fallen soldiers and Marines interred there. … Those who know President Trump know that the anonymous smears peddled by The Atlantic have no basis in fact or reality, and do a terrible disservice to journalism and to our veterans, living and deceased." 
Additionally, The Atlantic's reporting has been refuted by a White House email and Navy documents that directly show a "bad weather call" was the reason for the canceled presidential trip to Aisne-Marne cemetery in 2018.

  