
    The President today named 22 men and women to Senior Executive Service positions in a number of Federal Agencies and Departments, including the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, the Environmental Protection Agency, the Overseas Private Investment Corporation, the Office of Personnel Management, the Peace Corps, and the Departments of State, Transportation, Education, and Justice.
"This group of talented men and women will provide solid support for our Cabinet Secretaries and agency heads who have taken on the challenge of making our Federal Government work better for the American people," the President said.
National Aeronautics and Space Administration
Alan Ladwig, Senior Policy Analyst

Department of State
Toni Grant Verstandig, Deputy Assistant Secretary, Near Eastern Affairs

Department of Transportation
Eugene A. Conti, Jr., Deputy Assistant Secretary, Budget and Programs

Environmental Protection Agency
Felicia A. Marcus, Regional Administrator, Region IX

Peace Corps
Frederick M. O'Regan, Regional Director, Eurasia Middle East Region
Margaret Goodman, Regional Director, Asia Pacific Region
Victor C. Johnson, Regional Director, Inter-America Region
John P. Hogan, Associate Director of International Operations, International Operations
Judy Harrington, Associate Director for Volunteer Support, Volunteer Support

U.S. International Development Cooperation Agency
Charles D. Toy, Vice President/General Counsel, Overseas Private Investment Corporation

Office of Personnel Management
Valerie Lau, Director of Policy, Office of the Director
Lorraine Pratte Lewis, General Counsel, Office of the General Counsel

Department of Education
Linda G. Roberts, Special Adviser on Education Technology, Office of the Deputy Secretary
Jamienne S. Studley, Deputy General Counsel, Regulations and Legislation Service

Department of Justice
Diane P. Wood, Deputy Assistant Attorney General, Antitrust Division
Lois J. Schiffer, Deputy Assistant Attorney General, Environment and Natural Resources
John A. Rogovin, Deputy Assistant Attorney General, Civil Division
Mark I. Levy, Deputy Assistant Attorney General, Civil Division
Irvin B. Nathan, Principal Associate Deputy Attorney General
Merrick B. Garland, Deputy Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division
Eva M. Plaza, Deputy Assistant Attorney General, Civil Division
Nancy E. McFadden, Deputy Associate Attorney General, Office of the Associate Attorney General

  