
    Pool Reports by Austin Landis, Spectrum News 



Sent:
Reports:




November 17, 202110:10

FLOTUS pool report #1 - Gathered 
Good morning all! I'll be your pooler for FLOTUS' first event of the day at the Chamber of Commerce.
Pool has been tested and is gathered at the White House as of 9:50 on this crisp and clear day.
Guidance from the schedule below:
At 10:45 AM ET, First Lady Jill Biden will deliver remarks to the members of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce Foundation's Hiring Our Heroes Veteran Employment Advisory Council at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce in Washington, D.C.



November 17, 202110:22

FLOTUS pool #2 - Pool arrival and room setup 
Pool departed the White House at 10:00 prior to FLOTUS and arrived at the Chamber of Commerce (down the street) at 10:08.
A large conference room is set up with several round tables and a few dozen people milling around. At the front is a clear podium and a navy blue backdrop with several "HiringOurHeroes.org" and Hiring Our Heroes logos printed on it. Two American flags stand on each side. Two TV screens on either side of the speaking area read "Hiring Our Heroes / Veteran Employment Advisory Council" with a bright blue background.
FLOTUS is scheduled for about 10:50.
More background on the event to come.



November 17, 202110:32

FLOTUS pool #3 - Event background 
The first lady's office sends the following background on the event:
Today, the First Lady will deliver remarks to the members of the US Chamber of Commerce Hiring our Heroes (HOH) Military Spouse Employment Advisory Council (MSEAC) and Veterans Employment Advisory Council (VEAC). Hiring Our Heroes advisory council members are thought leaders committed to furthering veterans and military spouse employment, developing improved reporting measures, providing mentors to help transitioning service members and military spouses, and enlisting the commitment of thousands of businesses across America to do the same. The Veteran Employment Advisory Council (VEAC) is comprised of more than 50 of America's largest employers, representing every major industry. Serving as the advisory board of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce Foundation's Hiring Our Heroes (HOH) program, VEAC members meet three times a year to discuss best practices for veteran employment. The HOH Military Spouse Employment Advisory Council (MSEAC) is one of the first private sector-led councils formed specifically to address military spouse unemployment. The MSEAC concentrates on connecting spouses to national and local employers of every size and industry.
During the quarterly meeting, HOH and its partner employers will discuss opportunities for innovation in hiring veterans and military spouses, and share best practices for recruiting and retaining veteran and military spouse employees, including through remote and portable job opportunities. About 90 individuals representing a variety of companies will be present during the First Lady's remarks.
The First Lady previously gave live remarks at the U.S. Chamber for the 2017 and 2018 HOH Military Spouse Employment Summits (MSES) and taped remarks for the 2021 HOH MSES in May 2021. She also provided taped remarks for the HOH Remote Military Spouse Economic Empowerment Zone (MSEEZ) launch in September 2021.
Introducing the First LadyEric Eversole is a vice president at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and president of Hiring Our Heroes, a program of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce Foundation. Eversole leads Hiring Our Heroes, a grassroots initiative to help veterans, transitioning service members, and military spouses find meaningful employment in communities across America. He first entered military service in 1994 as an enlisted security specialist in the Indiana Air National Guard. Eversole later accepted a commission in the United States Navy JAG Corps in 1998 and served on active duty until 2001. Eversole transferred to the Navy Reserve in 2001. He now serves with a Navy Reserve unit supporting the Navy's Appellate Review Activity and holds the rankof captain. Eversole founded the Military Voter Protection Project (MVP Project)—a program dedicated to promoting and protecting the voting rights of active duty military members and their spouses. In addition, he was an adjunct professor for the AMVETS Legal Clinic at Chapman University, which provides free legal representation and support to active duty service members and veterans. Eversole holds a J.D. cum laude from Indiana University School of Law and a B.A. cum laude from Wabash College. He resides in Washington, D.C., with his wife, Amanda and their two daughters.
VEAC Chairman's Circle• APi Group Inc• Booz Allen Hamilton• BP• Brazen• Comcast NBCUniversal• FastPort• FedEx Corporation• Google.org• General Motors• Johnson & Johnson• LinkedIn• Lockheed Martin• Microsoft• Phillips 66• Prudential• Salesforce• Schultz Family Foundation• Simplilearn• Toyota• Verizon• USAA• Walmart• Wells Fargo
VEAC National Advisory Circle• 3M• Amazon• Arconic Foundation• Boeing• Capital One• Carmax• Caterpillar• Cushman & Wakefield• Deloitte• Eleven Fifty Academy• First Command• HCA Healthcare• Hilton• Huntsville Chamber of Commerce• Indeed• Mears Group• Ryder System• Spectrum• Starbucks• Troops into Transportation• Wounded Warrior Project
MSEAC Chairman's Circle• Booz Allen Hamilton• BP• Comcast NBC Universal• Google.org• HCA Healthcare• Hilton• Johnson & Johnson• LinkedIn• Lockheed Martin• Microsoft• Prudential• Salesforce• Toyota• USAA• Verizon• Walmart• Wells Fargo• Wyndham
MSEAC National Advisory Council• Capital One• Carmax• Edelman• Hilton• Starbucks• T-Mobile• Wounded Warrior Project• WWC Global



November 17, 202110:57

FLOTUS pool #4 - Program begins and FLOTUS remarks 
The speaker introducing FLOTUS, Eric Eversole, began at 10:30. Talking about difficulties in the labor market, he showed a photo of a sign from a local bakery that reads: "We are currently understaffed :( and appreciate your patience! :)" and a variety of headlines about the labor shortage. He talked about the importance of public-private partnerships in hiring veterans and military spouses.
FLOTUS walked into the room at 10:40 to a standing ovation, wearing a white dress, white blazer and two-toned scarf that is light and navy blue, with gold earrings.
She finished speaking at 10:49 to another standing round of applause.
Will send an Otter recording and prepared excerpts of her remarks, but some highlights below:
"We all want to make progress in this area. But it requires businesses to make significant changes, and that's not easy."
She talked about the difficulties for military spouses: moving from base to base, applying to jobs, parenting. She said they are highly qualified because of their adaptability.
"Our military isn't going to be able to keep our best and our brightest if they have to choose between love of family and love of country."
"Supporting military families is critical to our national security."
"I really do feel this issue from the heart. Because I am a working spouse."
"If we've learned anything from this pandemic, it's how to be creative. So let's be creative now."
"How can we look at the sacrifices our military makes and do anything less?"



November 17, 202111:12

FLOTUS pool #5 - Prepared remarks and recording 
Pool arrived back at the White House at 10:58 but did not see FLOTUS depart the Chamber of Commerce or arrive back on campus. More on her remarks below.
That's it from me — handing off to another pooler for the afternoon event. Thanks all!
Otter recording of remarks: https://otter.ai/u/5m3ei-N45xtlwzNgTM3G2NlOJZ4
Remarks from the first lady's office:
**EXCERPTS**Remarks as Prepared for DeliveryFirst Lady Jill BidenHiring Our Heroes Veteran Employment Advisory CouncilU.S. Chamber of CommerceNovember 17, 2021
***Today, we end, "It's too complicated."
Today we end, "We don't know how."
Today, we are coming together to say, "Our military spouses deserve as much commitment from us as they give to us."
For ten years, we've made progress in so many areas— hiring veterans, educating schools about military kids, raising awareness about caregivers…
But when it comes to military spouse unemployment, the needle doesn't move—instead, it's gotten worse. Today, it's more than seven times the national rate.
Why? What I've heard from organizations is that military spouses' resumes don't fully reflect their qualifications.
That military spouses leave jobs too often. That organizations can't maintain their culture if they allow remote work.
We all want to make progress in this area, but it requires businesses to make significant changes. And that's not easy.
But for a moment, I want you to imagine a spouse on a base. She's self-assured and accomplished—with not one, but two master's degrees.
She tells you how proud she is of her husband, serving on a ship in the Pacific, and that she knows what he's doing matters.
But the more she talks, the more you can see cracks in her confidence.
She tells you she wore her best suit because she never gets the chance to anymore. She misses her work.
After months of applying to jobs with no luck, she's ready to take anything—after all, there are bills to pay—but it won't be the career she's worked so hard to build.
She's not complaining, but you can see the sadness and frustration that she doesn't voice.
I've heard this same story more times than I can count.
Change isn't easy. But neither is moving to a new base, again and again.
Neither is parenting while your partner is deployed.
Neither is losing sleep, worrying that the person you love most in the world might not come home.
That's what our military spouses do every day. They do it even when it's hard. They do it for us.
Meanwhile, their husbands and wives question how long they can serve their country when their spouse is unhappy or feels unfulfilled.
Our military isn't going to be able to keep our best and brightest if they have to choose between their love of family and their love of country. That's why supporting military families is critical to our national security.
Joining Forces—my White House initiative that serves our military and veteran families,caregivers and survivors—was founded on that principle.
In September, we announced that every executive department across the federal government has committed to joining DOD's Military Spouse Employment Partnership to recruit, hire, and train military spouses.
But we need your help.
All of you have worked so hard to get our veterans hired. Today, their unemployment rate is below the national average. We need the same focus and dedication for our military spouses.
And it starts by creating flexible, transferable, remote work opportunities.
For families, remote work means mom or dad doesn't have to start over at each duty station.
And it means you can keep skilled, talented, experienced workers, even if they are relocated.
It's not a small ask, but there are organizations—some of you here today—that are making it work.
If we've learned anything in this pandemic, it's how to be creative.
So, let's be creative now.
This is possible. And it's profitable.
Because military spouses are highly educated. Through long deployments and difficult transfers, they have learned to be adaptable and resourceful. They know the value of organizations that are willing to invest in them—and they are loyal.
Tap into the power of this dynamic group, and you are tapping into the best of the best.
So, what can you do? How can you create a culture where military spouses have what they need to thrive?
Join the Military Spouse Employment Advisory Council. Invite your colleagues to join as well. Spread the word and share best practices.
As you know, Hiring our Heroes is deeply committed to this cause and they're here to help.
For ten years, so many have asked: How can we afford to make this work?
But the question should be: How can we look at the sacrifices that our military community makes and do anything less? How can we tell those spouses that this is too difficult?
We can't. We won't.
We will come together—with the dedication, resourcefulness, and sense of duty that they show every day—and give them the support they have earned.
Thank you.
###




 
Pool Reports below by Emily Goodin, Daily Mail 



Sent:
Reports:




November 17, 202114:08

FLOTUS pool report #6 - visit to Children's National at THEARC 
This afternoon, FLOTUS will join U.S. Surgeon General Dr. Vivek Murthy, Washington Mystics' Alysha Clark, and Washington Wizards' Thomas Bryant at a pediatric COVID-19 vaccination clinic at the Children's National at THEARC.
Ahead of this event, at President Biden's departure, Dr. Biden was on the South Portico balcony along with pediatrician Dr. Hina Talib, singer Ciara and Ciara's daughter Sienna Princess, 4, and sons Future Zahir, 7, and Win Harrison, 1.
POTUS walked over to wave. The group waved to POTUS as he boarded Marine One.
Ciara was at the White House to talk about getting children 5 to 11 vaccinated.
"They are filming a digital product encouraging pediatric vaccines," East Wing spokesman Michael LaRosa said.
Filming was taking place in the East Wing garden as pool loaded in the van but it was difficult to see what was going on as they were in one of the pergolas.
Pool is rolling ahead of FLOTUS to preset at Children's National and is not with her motorcade.
Here is background on the visit courtesy of the East Wing.
Today, the First Lady and Dr. Vivek Murthy, U.S. Surgeon General, will visit a pediatric COVID-19 vaccination clinic at Children's National at THEARC, which is a primary care clinic in Ward 8 of Washington, DC. Their visit will highlight the nationwide effort from the Biden-Harris Administration to encourage parents and guardians to vaccinate children ages 5 to 11 years old. This will be the First Lady's third visit to a pediatric COVID-19 vaccine clinic since the CDC recommended its use.
Upon arrival, the First Lady and Dr. Murthy will participate in a greet with Children's National Hospital leadership. After that, they will greet with Del. Eleanor Holmes Norton (D, Washington, DC); Mr. Thomas Bryant, a Washington Wizards NBA player; and Ms. Alysha Clark, a Washington Mystics WNBA player. They will then tour the pediatric COVID-19 vaccination clinic, led by Dr. Hope Rhodes, Medical Director of Children's National at THEARC. In the observation area, they will visit a nurses' station and visit with families. Following the tour, the First Lady and Dr. Murthy will give remarks. They will be introduced by Ms. Alysha Clark from the Washington Mystics. The crowd will consist of parents and children from the hospital community who will have just received their vaccine.
Children's National expects to vaccinate 40-50 children at the clinic, which is open from 8:00 AM to 4:30 PM. They will accept walk-in patients and will also vaccinate parents and/or siblings of the children if they haven't been vaccinated, need to complete their vaccine series, or are eligible for their booster. Nurses from Children's National will administer the pediatric vaccines. Children's National is currently offering pediatric vaccines at 23 Children's National locations across Washington, DC, and Maryland. They are also offering pediatric vaccines at elementary schools in Washington, DC, using their mobile unit.
More Tk…



November 17, 202115:26

FLOTUS pool report #7 - observation room visit with FLOTUS, Dr. Bear, and Barney the dog 
FLOTUS came into observation room at Children's at 3:02 pm. She was accompanied by U.S. Surgeon General Dr. Vivek Murthy, Washington Mystics' Alysha Clark, and Washington Wizards' Thomas Bryant.
This is the room kids wait after receiving their COVID vaccine.
Three children - all boys - were waiting in one area after getting their shots. Brent, 8, Bryson, 10 and Brandon, 11, Hawkins - all brothers - were there with grandma Tony and grandpa Bruce Jones.
"How'd it go?" FLOTUS asked. "I'm Jill."
The kids talked about why they got their vaccine. "To prevent people from getting Covid," Brandon said.
"Are all your friends going to come in and get their vaccines," FLOTUS asked. There was silence. "We're hoping all your friends come in to get their vaccinations," she said.
She gave the kids stickers.
"You're the real heroes. You have your super power and now you're protected against Covid," she said.
At the next pod, was Akeelah Osborne, 6, BJ Buris, 5, and Autumn Buris, 8, who had a birthday yesterday.
"Thanks for getting your vaccine," FLOTUS said and gave out stickers.
BJ showed FLOTUS where he got his shot. A hospital staffer asked if it hurt. "No," he said.
FLOTUS posed for pics with the families.
People dressed as Elsa, Captain America, G-Wiz the Wizards' mascot and Dr. Bear, who is the hospital mascot, were in the room to talk to kids.
Barney, a golden retriever who is a full time hospital employee, is also present for kids who need some comfort. Barney is wearing his hospital ID badge on his collar.
FLOTUS petted the dog.
The boys petted the dog and played with a bubble gun while waiting on FLOTUS.
There are three pods along the side of the room where the kids get their shots and then they wait in the open observation room.
FLOTUS is wearing a gold St. John's dress. Pool is moving to next stop where FLOTUS will make remarks.



November 17, 202115:51

FLOTUS pool report #8 - FLOTUS remarks 
FLOTUS spoke for about seven minutes.
She spoke about the safety measures parents take - holding hands crossing the street, watching what they eat and "stuffing them in snow suits."
"Joe and our team have been working every day to give you what you need to keep your family safe in this pandemic. and parents. I'm so excited that now you have a new way to do just that. a vaccine for children, five and up," she said to great applause.
"So here's what I want you to remember and share with other parents: the vaccine protects your children against COVID-19. It's been thoroughly reviewed and rigorously tested. It's safe. It's free, and it's available for every single child in this country five and up. parenthood and worrying go hand in hand don't they, and it's just what parents do. We worry constantly about our kids, so I can't promise you that the dangers of this world will become any less frightening. I mean, just wait until your kids start driving."
She concluded: "Because nothing absolutely nothing is more important than our children's health. And it's up to us to keep them safe and with this vaccine we can."
Washington Mystics' Alysha Clark actually spoke first.
"I just want to applaud each and every one of you for taking the step today to trust the science and medical professionals who have been working around the clock to extensively research and find a way for us to get on the other side of this pandemic. I know today is a big deal. And some of you guys may be nervous, maybe you don't like needle - me either," she said.
Dr. Murthy spoke next and spoke how his daughter received surgery at Children's on her leg when she was one. She is now about to turn four. He thanked staff for the "compassion and kindness encountered here … so when I say thank you for what you have done, I want you to know that I mean it from the bottom of my heart."
He talked about the safety of the vaccine, the trials it went through and how kids get a lower dose.
He also warned against dangers of misinformation.
"Now as soon as the vaccine was authorized, we already knew that parents were getting inundated in their inboxes and their social media feeds … with false claims about the vaccine."
"And we've seen this actually throughout the vaccination effort even for adults, but that's why I'm asking parents today to be careful about where you get your information from and to seek answers from credible sources like your doctors, like nurses, like your children's hospital like this one, your local Department of Health and the CDC."
Here is an otter link to all the remarks: https://otter.ai/u/_yOGq1CiT4ZGOv55VXZ_o0hnpD4
There's about 30 people in the room - all wearing face masks. Audience included hospital staff, Delegate Eleanor Holmes Norton, and parents with kids who got vaccinated.
Cinderella, Captain America, G-Wiz the Wizards' mascot and Dr. Bear were there. Please note pooler called Cinderella "Elsa" in previous pool report. Pooler apologies for mixing up Disney heroines.
At 3:35 pm we are rolling back to White House.



November 17, 202115:57

FLOTUS pool #9 - return to White House 
FLOTUS motorcade returned to the White House at 3:48 pm after an uneventful ride, lights and sirens the whole way.
Pool didn't see Dr. Biden get out of the motorcade but did see Dr. Murthy get out of one of the vans.
That's a wrap folks.




  