
    On the heels of Senator Kamala Harris' impressive performance in the fifth Democratic debate, Iowa educators and community leaders from across the state are announcing their endorsement of Harris. Last night, Harris showed she could go toe-to-toe with Donald Trump and clearly laid out her plans to rebuild and re-energize the Obama coalition.
"I'm really excited to be full force, all-in for Kamala Harris. We need a powerful executive force, a strong legal mind, an experienced legislator, and someone who understands and is campaigning on both huge issues and the ways that they affect people's daily lives. We need someone empathetic, someone who is outraged on our behalf, and someone who can and will stand up to what will remain a horribly fractured Congress, while also trying to find ways to get work done. For me, Kamala Harris is that candidate," said Megan Alter, Iowa City Housing and Community Development Commissioner.
"My choice for Democratic candidate for President is Senator Kamala Harris. I love her ethics and her knowledge of the law. She shows deep respect for our laws. It is what our country needs after so much deviousness and disrespect for the law from our current President," added former Waterloo area State Senator Pat Harper. "We are a nation of laws and cannot endure much longer with a leader who is constantly trying to thwart the law. There are many other issues in the 2020 election, but to me nothing is more important than to have a Democratic candidate who can face the opposition with a thorough knowledge of the constitution and our laws."
The full list of new endorsers includes:

Megan Alter, Iowa City Housing and Community Development Commissioner
Lonnie Dafney, West Des Moines School Board Member
Lyn Eldridge, Gun Violence Prevention Activist and Member of Moms Demand Action for Gun Sense in America from Waterloo
Pat Harper, Former Waterloo Area State Senator
Rhonda McRina, Former Waterloo School Board Member
Bernie Scolaro, Sioux City Education and Labor Leader

Harris will return to Iowa later this week for a meet and greet on Friday, November 22 in Muscatine and on Saturday, November 23 in Washington. She will also spend Thanksgiving week with her family in Iowa, engaging with caucusgoers throughout the holiday.
  