
    
  Ten additional elected officials and community leaders join Christie leadership team

For Immediate Release:
Tuesday, November 24, 2015
MORRISTOWN, NJ - Following a successful two day campaign swing in New Hampshire that included two capacity crowd town hall meetings and a house party, Governor Chris Christie received additional support for his Presidential campaign.
Rob Wieczorek, President of Wieczorek Insurance and Board Chairman of the Farnum Center for Drug Recovery, commented, "Through his compassionate words and principled actions, Governor Christie has been a national leader on the drug recovery movement. Governor Christie brought the drug epidemic to the forefront of the 2016 campaign at a time when it was not a popular subject to talk about. His words shed light on the human side of a struggle that impacts millions of American families. In New Jersey, he passed landmark, bipartisan legislation to create a drug court program that places first-time, nonviolent drug offenders in inpatient drug treatment programs so they can receive the treatment they need to combat addiction. His reforms have decreased prison populations, saved taxpayers money, and most importantly, given those struggling with addiction a second chance in our society."
Christie was also endorsed by State Representative Dennis Fields (R-Sanbornton), a U.S. Navy veteran serving his 15th term in the House, and State Representative John Mullen (R-Middleton), a U.S. Army veteran in his 2nd term who serves as the Vice Chairman of the House Resources, Recreation and Development Committee.
Alyssa Shooshan, the former Chief of Staff to US Senator Judd Gregg, also endorsed Governor Christie today.
The following is the full list of individuals announcing their public support for Chris Christie's campaign today:

Rob Wieczorek, President of Wieczorek Insurance & Board Chairman of Farnum Center Drug Recovery
State Representative Dennis Fields (R - Sanbornton)
State Representative John Mullen (R - Middleton)
Pam Coughlin, Hillsborough County Register of Deeds
Alyssa Shooshan, Former Chief of Staff to US Senator Judd Gregg
Marie LaPrise, Merrimack Community Leader
Nicolette Rioux, Bedford Republican Activist
Ellen Belcastro, Center Conway Community Leader
Amy Chiaramitaro, Rye Republican Activist
Frank Chiaramitaro, Rye Republican Activist

Click here to view a full list of Chris Christie's New Hampshire endorsements.
  