
    Richardson continues to make education a central campaign issue in "Bold Plan"
COUNCIL BLUFFS, IA-- New Mexico Governor and Democratic Presidential candidate Bill Richardson today released a new ad in Iowa on education entitled "Bold Plan." In the ad, the narrator talks about Richardson's vision for the American education system and his experience in dealing with the issue.
See the ad and background materials at: http://action.richardsonforpresident.com/ads/boldplan
Richardson has made education a central part of his Presidential campaign by proposing a $60 billion plan that includes universal pre-kindergarten, 100,000 new math and science teachers, 250 new math and science academies, and a national service program to help pay for college.
"Unlike my colleagues, I am not going to tinker around the edges of No Child Left Behind," Richardson said. "I think that we need to be bolder. I will get rid of it. I also will establish an average national starting salary for teachers of $40,000, and I will invest heavily in math and science so that our kids are competitive in the global marketplace. As Governor of New Mexico, I have not just talked about education; I have done something about it. Americans are ready to act. Now we need real leadership."
Richardson will pay for his education plan by cutting outdated weapons systems and reducing our nuclear weapons arsenal. As Governor, Richardson has implemented an education initiative that has New Mexico ranked second in the country in education reform by the Fordham Foundation.
"Bill Richardson has spent his career using bold leadership to tackle big problems," campaign manager Dave Contarino said. "On the big issues, such as education, energy, jobs, and Iraq, Governor Richardson is offering the strongest solutions and the most detailed plans.
"This ad continues to reinforce our message that Governor Richardson has both the most experience in the race and the most powerful vision for change."
"Bold Plan" was produced by Steve Murphy and Mark Putnam of Murphy Putnam Media. The new ad follows on the heels of increasing momentum for Governor Richardson in the early states of Iowa and New Hampshire. Richardson has registered 12% support in both the recent Iowa CBS/New York Times and New Hampshire CNN/WMUR/UNH polls.
To read Governor Richardson's education plan, click here.
  