
    
  The Top Ten List You Won't Hear During Vice President Biden's Appearance Tonight On "The Late Show"

NUMBER 10: Vice President Biden Emphasizes That The Obama-Biden Team Is "In Charge" Of The Economy:
Vice President Biden: "What's Relevant Is We're In Charge. ... So I Don't Blame Them For Being Mad. We're In Charge. So They're Angry." BIDEN: "There's a lot of people in Florida that have good reason to be upset because they've lost a job. Even though 50 some percent of the American people think the economy tanked because of the last administration, that's not relevant. What's relevant is we're in charge. And right now we are the one's in charge and it's gotten better but it hasn't gotten good enough. And in states like Florida it's even been more stagnant because of the real estate market. And so I don't blame them for being mad. We're in charge. So they're angry." (WLRN/Miami Herald News, 9/28/11)
NUMBER 9: Vice President Biden Believes "It's A Depression For Millions And Millions Of Americans":
Vice President Biden, In June 2012: "It's A Depression For Millions And Millions Of Americans." (Vice President Biden, Remarks At A Campaign Event , Dubuque, IA, 6/27/12)


    In 2011, Poverty "Remained Stuck At Record Levels" With Over 46 Million Americans Living In Poverty. "The ranks of America's poor remained stuck at record levels, although dwindling unemployment benefits and modest job gains helped stave off what experts had predicted would be the fourth rise in a row in the poverty rate. ... By total numbers, roughly 46.2 million people remained below the poverty line, unchanged from 2010. That figure was the highest in more than half a century when records were kept. The 15 percent poverty rate was basically unchanged from 1993 and was the highest since 1983." ("U.S. Poverty: Census Finds 46.2 Million Impoverished As Median Income Drops," The Associated Press, 9/12/12)
  

NUMBER 8: Vice President Biden Stated That The Middle Class "Has Been Buried The Last Four Years":
In October 2012, Vice President Biden Said The Middle Class "Has Been Buried The Last Four Years." BIDEN: "All kidding aside, all the boos, stop all the malarkey. Look guys, this is deadly earnest man. This is deadly earnest. How they can justify — how they can justify raising taxes on a middle class that has been buried the last four years? How in Lord's name can they justify raising their taxes with these tax cuts?" (Vice President Biden, Remarks At A Campaign Event, Charlotte, NC, 10/2/12)


    "Almost Every Group Is Worse Off Than It Was Three Years Ago, And Some Groups Had Very Large Declines In Income." "‘Almost every group is worse off than it was three years ago, and some groups had very large declines in income,' Green, who previously directed work on the Census Bureau's income and poverty statistics program, said in a phone interview today. ‘We're in an unprecedented period of economic stagnation.'" (Jeff Kearn, "U.S. Incomes Fell More In Recovery, Sentier Says," Bloomberg, 8/23/12)
  

NUMBER 7: Vice President Biden Believes The Government Has "To Go Spend Money To Keep From Going Bankrupt":
Vice President Biden: "‘You're Telling Me We Have To Go Spend Money To Keep From Going Bankrupt?' The Answer Is Yes." BIDEN: "We're going to go bankrupt as a nation. People, when I say that, look at me and say, 'What are you talking about, Joe? You're telling me we have to go spend money to keep from going bankrupt?' The answer is yes." (James Taranto, "Ethnic Etiquette," The Wall Street Journal, 7/17/09)


    Under President Obama, The National Debt Has Reached $16.2 Trillion — An Increase Of $5.5 Trillion. (Department Of The Treasury, Accessed 11/1/12)
  

NUMBER 6: Vice President Biden Is "Literally" The "Last Guy In The Room With The President" When He Makes Foreign Policy Decisions:
Vice President Biden, On His Ability To Influence Foreign Policy Decisions: "I Literally Get To Be The Last Guy In The Room With The President. That's Our Arrangement." BIDEN: "I literally get to be the last guy in the room with the President. That's our arrangement. I can give him all the advice that I have and make my case, but I walk out of the room." (Vice President Joe Biden, Remarks, 4/26/12)


    President Obama "Has Been Roundly Criticized For Lacking An Overall Strategy" In The Middle East. "The president has been roundly criticized for lacking an overall strategy in the region as protests have spread, governments have been toppled and violence has escalated. But Obama and his staff have repeatedly warned of the dangers of the perception that the United States is intervening in Arab countries." (Sam Youngman, "Obama Considering ‘Targeted Sanctions,' Against Syria," The Hill, 4/25/11)
  

NUMBER 5: Vice President Biden Endorsed President Obama's War On Coal — "No Coal Plants Here In America":
Senator Joe Biden, In Ohio In September 2008: "We're Not Supporting Clean Coal ... No Coal Plants Here In America." QUESTION: "Wind and solar are flourishing here in Ohio, so why are you supporting clean coal?" BIDEN: "We're not supporting clean coal. Guess what, China is building two every week. Two dirty coal plants. And it's polluting the United States, it's causing people to die. ... No coal plants here in America. Build them, if they are going to build them over there, make them clean, because they're killing you." (Sen. Joe Biden, Remarks At Campaign Event, Maumee, OH, 9/17/08)


    By The End Of 2012, More Than 100 Coal Plants Will Have Closed Since President Obama Took Office. "But in the past two years, an increasing number of coal-powered electricity plants across the country have announced closures. Estimates vary, but banking and industry analysis firm Credit Suisse put expected and known closures for 2009-2012 at 111 plants, that's one-fifth of the nation's nearly 500 coal plants." (Lisa Desjardins, "The War Over Coal Is Personal," CNN, 7/17/12)
  

NUMBER 4: Four Years Ago, Vice President Biden Described "A Three-Letter Word: Jobs" As The Top Issue Facing The Middle Class:
In October 2008, Senator Joe Biden Called "A Three-Letter Word: Jobs" The Number One Issue Facing The Middle Class." "With the economy floundering, Sen. Joe Biden, D-Del., told Ohio voters today that he and Sen. Barack Obama, D-Ill., would focus on one specific issue that Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz., has neglected. ‘Look, John's last-minute economic plan does nothing to tackle the number one job facing the middle class, and it happens to be, as Barack says, a three-letter word: jobs. J-O-B-S,' the Democratic veep nominee said at a morning rally in Athens." (Nate Gewargis, "Oh, That Joe! (No. 29 In A Series) — Obama & Biden's Three-Letter Word: J-O-B-S," ABC News, 10/15/08)


    Four Years Later, More Than Twenty-Three Million Americans Are Unemployed, Underemployed, Or Have Stopped Looking For Work. (U.S. Bureau Of Labor Statistics, 10/10/12)
  

NUMBER 3: Vice President Biden Believes President Obama's Job-Killing Tax Hikes Are "Patriotic":
Vice President Biden, In April 2012: "Wealthy People Are Just As Patriotic As Middle-Class People ... And They Know They Should Be Doing More..." "‘Wealthy people are just as patriotic as middle-class people, as poor people, and they know they should be doing more,' Mr. Biden said. ‘We're not supposed to have a system with one set of rules for the wealthy and one set of rules for everyone else.'" (Michael D. Shear, "Biden Says Republicans Want A ‘Romney Rule'," The New York Times, 4/12/12)


    President Obama Has Promised Approximately $2 Trillion In Job-Destroying Tax Hikes In A Second Term. ("Fiscal Year 2013 Budget of The U.S. Government," Office Of Management & Budget, 2/13/12)
  

NUMBER 2: Vice President Biden Believes President Obama's Failed Stimulus "Literally Drop-Kicks Us Out Of This Recession":
Vice President Biden, Shortly After The Stimulus Passed: "Literally Drop-Kicks Us Out Of This Recession And We Begin To Grow Again And Begin To Grow Again." BIDEN: "This is a monumental project, but I think it's doable. But I just think we got to stay on top of it and we got to stay on top of it on a weekly basis. Because this is about getting this out and spent in 18 months to create 3.5 million jobs and do -- to set -- tee this up so the rest of the good work that's being done here literally drop-kicks us out of this recession and we begin to grow again and begin to grow again." (Vice President Joe Biden, Remarks At Recovery Plan Implementation Meeting, Washington D.C., 2/25/09)


    Before Taking Office, President Obama's Advisers Predicted The Stimulus Would Lower Unemployment To 5.4% By Today — But Unemployment Is Still At 7.8%. (Christina Romer and Jared Bernstein, "The Job Impact Of The American Recovery And Reinvestment Plan," 1/9/09; U.S. Bureau Of Labor Statistics, 10/10/12)
  

NUMBER 1: Vice President Biden Is Already Running For President Himself:
Vice President Biden: "When Your Insurance Rates Go Down Then You'll Vote For Me In 2016." "After chatting about the health insurance law, Biden concluded, ‘Well look, I'm not trying to talk you into voting for me, I just wanted to say hi to you, okay? And after it's all over when your insurance rates go down then you'll vote for me in 2016. I'll talk to you later.'" (Arlette Saenz, "Joe Biden Jokes About 2016 Run For President," ABC News, 10/31/12)
  