
    The United States and Indonesia are committed to enhancing cooperation between the world's second and third largest democracies through the U.S.-Indonesia Comprehensive Partnership, including supporting democratic institutions, improving governance, and fostering respect for human rights. While our two governments work together to achieve these goals, Indonesian and American citizens - through their respective civil societies - also play an important role in promoting our two countries' shared commitment to democracy, governance, and human rights.
To fulfill the President's vision, the United States announced its commitment to supporting "Inisiatif Kemitraan Asia Tenggara - United States (IKAT-U.S.)" or "Southeast Asia - U.S. Partnership: Civil Societies Innovating Together," through a $15 million contribution over three years. IKAT-U.S. is an unprecedented effort to assist Indonesian civil society groups to share their expertise and experiences outside Indonesia, by developing and implementing democracy, governance, and human rights projects throughout the region in partnership with civil society from the United States and Southeast Asia.
The IKAT-U.S. Partnership is:

 A program to facilitate partnerships among Indonesian, U.S., and regional civil society organizations in five areas critical to the development of democracy, good governance, and respect for human rights: (1) elections and political participation, (2) independent media and freedom of information, (3) peace-building and conflict resolution, (4) transparency and accountability, and (5) human rights monitoring and advocacy.
 A critical initiative to empower civil society organizations in Indonesia to be effective voices and forces for transformational change through a new chapter in South-South cooperation.
 An opportunity to boost decades-long U.S. support for Indonesian civil society to the next generation by enhancing its ability to collaborate on democracy, good governance, and human rights-related programs throughout the region.
 A recognition that Indonesia's vibrant yet stable multi-party democracy stands as an example for other countries in various stages of democratic development to draw from - both within and outside Southeast Asia.

USAID has solicited concept papers for potential partnerships and the response has been very positive. Over 100 organizations representatives attended a pre-proposal briefing. Over 50 concept papers were received and are currently being evaluated. The highest evaluated groups will be invited to submit full proposals. They will be submitted in early 2011 with the first awards expected in spring 2011.
The United States is committed to highlighting those practices and innovations that are transforming Indonesia's democratic culture and finding ways to support the sharing of these experiences and approaches across the region.
  