
    Mitt Romney today announced the support of New Hampshire Senator Kelly Ayotte. Senator Ayotte will endorse Mitt Romney this afternoon at a rally in her hometown of Nashua and serve as a Co-Chair of his National Advisory Council.
"In her short time in the U.S. Senate, Senator Ayotte has emerged as a conservative leader in the fight to cut spending and create a government that is more accountable to the taxpayers," said Mitt Romney. "Throughout her career as a public servant, Senator Ayotte has displayed the virtues that Granite Staters expect from their leaders. She is a tireless worker who understands that she serves the New Hampshire taxpayers – not the other way around – and keeps a watchful eye on how their money is spent. I am honored to have her support and look forward to working with her to put an end to Washington's spending addiction so that our children and grandchildren will not be burdened by irresponsible policies and endless debt."
"I have been impressed by the amount of time Mitt Romney has spent in New Hampshire, holding open town hall meetings, answering the tough questions and listening to voters," said Senator Kelly Ayotte. "Mitt Romney has proven through his experience as a successful businessman, effective governor, and by his excellent presidential debate performances that he is best prepared to lead our country and ensure Barack Obama is a one-term president."
Background on Senator Kelly Ayotte:
Kelly Ayotte was elected to The United States Senate in 2010 with 60% of the vote. She previously served as New Hampshire's first female Attorney General from 2004-2010. In the Senate, Kelly serves on the Armed Services, Budget, Commerce, and Small Business Committees. She is the Ranking Member on the Armed Services Subcommittee on Readiness and Management Support.
For successfully leading efforts to secure New Hampshire's first capital murder convictions in over 60 years, the Union Leader newspaper named Ayotte "Citizen of the Year" in 2008. She is married to Joe Daley, a Nashua native who flew combat missions during the Iraq war and currently serves as a Lieutenant Colonel in the Air National Guard. She helped him launch a landscaping and snow removal company, which provides her with a firsthand understanding of how decisions made in Washington impact small businesses.
Kelly and Joe live in Nashua with their two children.
  