
    "There's an intensity factor out there on the side of the Republicans, that is a significant gap and we see it out on the ground, we see it when people are knocking on the doors, we see it when people are making the phone calls and again, it gets back to the simple fact that Governor Romney is out there talking about big things and big change, not about small things..." — Rich Beeson, Romney for President Political Director
Fox News Sunday
Fox
November 4, 2012
Click Here To Watch Rich Beeson
RICH BEESON: "There's two numbers to keep in mind here, Chris. And it goes across the country and as we go into specific states it will matter even more. One is independents. Independents are gonna decide this race in all of these states. Governor Romney consistently leads among independents because they have seen his message, for creating 12 million jobs, real recovery and strengthening the middle class. The second number is you've got an incumbent president who has been running for this job for the last four years since the day he got elected, will have raised and spent over $1 billion and he is stuck well below 50, at 48, 47, 46, in all of these polls. When you're an incumbent under 50, and well under 50, that's a bad place to be."
...
FOX NEWS' CHRIS WALLACE: "Finally, what will you be looking at, early on election night? What states, what counties? Secondly, what -- is this going to be -- how will you know whether it is going to be an early night or a long night and how long do you think it is going to take for to us figure out who is the next president?" RICH BEESON: "Well, there's going to be a lot of key bellwethers. But what we're seeing consistently from the early and absentee numbers is that there is a general underperforming in places where President Obama needs to do well and there's an over-performing in places where Governor Romney does well. There's an intensity factor out there on the side of the Republicans, that is a significant gap and we see it out on the ground, we see it when people are knocking on the doors, we see it when people are making the phone calls and again, it gets back to the simple fact that Governor Romney is out there talking about big things and big change, not about small things and so I think as we start seeing returns coming in from New Hampshire, from southeastern Pennsylvania, from northern Virginia, from Cuyahoga County in Ohio, I think it is going to become pretty clear that there is going to be a widespread repudiation of the Obama administration, and, Governor Romney and Congressman Ryan will be elected the next President and Vice President of the United States. And I don't think we'll have to wait very long to know that."
  