
    By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including section 301 of title 3, United States Code, and in order to establish an advisory committee on science and technology, it is hereby ordered as follows:
Section 1. Establishment. There is established the President's Committee of Advisors on Science and Technology ("PCAST"). PCAST shall be composed of not more than 16 members, one of whom shall be the Assistant to the President for Science and Technology ("Assistant"), and 15 of whom shall be distinguished individuals from the nonfederal sector appointed by the President. The nonfederal sector members shall be representative of the diverse perspectives and expertise in this Nation's investments in science and technology. The Assistant to the President for Science and Technology shall co-chair PCAST with a nonfederal sector member selected by the President.
Sec. 2. Functions. (a) The PCAST shall advise the President, through the Assistant, on matters involving science and technology.
(b) In the performance of its advisory duties, PCAST shall assist the National Science and Technology Council ("Council") in securing private sector involvement in its activities.
Sec. 3. Administration. (a) The heads of executive departments and agencies shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide PCAST such information with respect to scientific and technological matters as required for the purpose of carrying out its functions.
(b) In consultation with the Assistant to the President for Science and Technology, PCAST is authorized to convene ad hoc working groups to assist the Council.
(c) Members of PCAST shall serve without any compensation for their work on PCAST. However, members may be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law for persons serving intermittently in the government service (5 U.S.C. 5701-5707).
(d) Any expenses of PCAST shall be paid from the funds available for the expenses of the Office of Science and Technology Policy.
(e) The Office of Science and Technology Policy shall provide such administrative services as may be required.
Sec. 4. General. (a) I have determined that the Committee shall be established in compliance with the Federal Advisory Committee Act, as amended (5 U.S.C. App.). Notwithstanding any other Executive order, the functions of the President under the Federal Advisory Committee Act, as amended, except that of reporting to the Congress, which are applicable to PCAST shall be performed by the Office of Science and Technology Policy in accordance with the guidelines and procedures established by the Administrator of General Services.
(b) PCAST shall terminate 2 years from the date of this order unless extended prior to that date.
(c) Executive Orders Nos. 12700, 12768, and Section 2 of Executive Order No. 12869 are hereby revoked.
William J. Clinton
THE WHITE HOUSE,
November 23, 1993.
  