
    I am steadfastly committed to ensuring our veterans and their families receive the care and support they deserve.President Donald J. Trump
PROVIDING QUALITY HEALTHCARE FOR OUR VETERANS: President Donald J. Trump continues to work every day to improve healthcare and expand services for our Nation's veterans.

President Trump recently secured a record $73.1 billion in funding for the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to ensure our veterans receive the medical care they have earned.

This legislation signed by the President included $8.6 billion for mental health services, $400 million for opioid abuse prevention, and much more.


Earlier this year, the President signed the VA MISSION Act, revolutionizing the VA healthcare system and raising the standard of service for our veterans.

The VA MISSION Act consolidates and reforms existing programs to give eligible veterans access to care right in their own communities.
Eligible veterans will also have access to walk-in community clinics that offer immediate, local care.


In January, the President ordered the Secretaries of Defense, Homeland Security, and VA to improve access to mental health treatment and suicide prevention resources for veterans.
President Trump has expanded access to telehealth services for veterans, including through the "Anywhere to Anywhere VA Health Care Initiative."

BRINGING ACCOUNTABILITY TO THE VA: The Trump Administration is strengthening accountability and transparency at the VA. 

President Trump has signed the VA Accountability and Whistleblower Protection Act, making it easier to discipline bad actors at the VA, including senior executives.

The Act strengthened protections for individuals who come forward and identify problems occurring within the VA.


VA employees are being held accountable for poor performance, with more than 4,300 VA employees removed, demoted, and suspended.
The President Trump kept his promise to create a 24/7 White House VA Hotline.
The VA has increased transparency and accountability by launching an online "Access and Quality Tool," providing veterans with access to wait time and quality care data.
The President signed the Veterans Appeals Improvement and Modernization Act, overhauling the VA's complicated appeals system and offering veterans faster appeals decisions.

This legislation helped put the VA on track to deliver a record number of decisions to veterans by the end of fiscal year 2018.



SUPPORTING AMERICA'S FINEST: President Trump is committed to supporting America's veterans by improving access to education benefits, housing, and employment.

Last year, the President signed the "Forever GI Bill," which provided enhanced education benefits to veterans, service members, and their family members.

This legislation lifted a 15-year limit on veterans' access to educational benefits to ensure all veterans receive the benefits they have rightly earned.


Programs at the VA and the Department of Housing and Urban Development helped nearly 54,000 veterans find permanent housing and get access to supportive services last year.
Thanks to the booming economy, veterans' unemployment remains near a two-decade low.

  