
    STATEMENT OF ADMINISTRATION POLICY
(House Rules)(Hefley (R) Colorado and 84 cosponsors)
The Administration strongly opposes H.R. 2606 because it would unacceptably restrict the President's ability to carry out his constitutional responsibilities as Commander-in-Chief and to conduct foreign policy. It could also derail the Bosnian peace process at a moment when we have the best opportunity since the war began of reaching a peaceful settlement to that tragic conflict. Passage of such a bill now, while negotiations continue in Dayton, Ohio, seriously undercuts the ability to work with the parties on obtaining a settlement and sends the message that the United States does not take seriously its role as leader of the peace process. For these reasons, if H.R. 2606 were presented to the President, the President's senior advisors would recommend that the bill be vetoed.
Consultation with Congress 
The Administration understands the legitimate concerns that have been raised concerning U.S. participation in implementing a Bosnian peace settlement. All levels of the Administration, including the President, are consulting closely with the Congress on this issue and will continue to do so. If a Bosnian agreement is reached, there will be a timely opportunity for further study and consultation between the congress and the Administration. Subsequently, the Administration will request an expression of support from Congress for American participation in a NATO implementation force.
But a peace settlement has not been reached yet. To prejudge the talks at this stage, by limiting the President's authority as this bill would do, risks derailing the negotiations before any settlement has been achieved. There will be an opportunity to evaluate and address the role of U.S. participation in any Bosnia peace settlement once the terms of the settlement are known.
U.S. Interests 
A core tenet of U.S. foreign policy for the past half-century has been that the United States has paramount interests in the security and stability of Europe. A lasting, peaceful settlement to a bloody conflict in the heart of Europe is critical to protecting these interests.
In order to implement such a settlement, however, there must be provision for a credible international military presence to give parties to the Bosnian conflict the confidence that they can lay down their arms and begin the process of reconciliation and rebuilding. NATO is the only force that can provide that presence and the United States, as the leader to the Alliance, must participate fully. Indeed, the parties to the war, particularly the Bosnian government, have said they will not sign a peace agreement unless they believe the United states will help implement it.
H.R. 2606 would limit the United States' ability to work with the parties even before the terms of a settlement, and any U.S. participation, are agreed upon, risking a breakdown in negotiations, a resumption of the conflict, and undermining U.S. national interests in a peaceful settlement. Failing to support allies at this pivotal moment, would undermine U.S. leadership of NATO and weaken the Alliance that is the very basis of our Nation's own security. Undercutting the chance for peace in Bosnia would he to the detriment of the United States' interest.
  