
    CALIFORNIA -- Ahead of Sen. Bernie Sanders' trip to California, 36 elected officials announced their support for his candidacy for President of the United States. The endorsements are in addition to nearly 50 California endorsements that were announced last month, and two major labor endorsements this week from National Nurses United and United Teachers Los Angeles . Sen. Sanders will arrive in California this morning for a three-day swing through Oakland, Fresno, Long Beach, and East Los Angeles.
"We are proud to have the endorsement of some of California's most progressive and dedicated elected officials and party leaders," said Rafael Návar, Bernie 2020 California State Director. "We have the grassroots support we need to win this election, and with these leaders on our side, Bernie Sanders will become the next President of the United States."
The new endorsements include two from members of the California State Assembly, and the District Attorney-elect of San Francisco.
"In a country with our resources, it is unconscionable that children are dying because they don't have adequate health insurance, living on our streets because their parents can't earn enough to make ends meet on a minimum wage, or going hungry because we don't have a universal school lunch program," said California State Assemblymember Kansen Chu. "Bernie Sanders is the only candidate in this race who has spent his career fighting for universal child care and early education for all Americans; I trust him to rebuild the social safety net in this country and deliver the programs that children need to grow up healthy, safe, smart, and strong."
"Bernie Sanders fights with and for working people--and he always has," said California State Assemblymember Ash Kalra. "When we elect him as President of the United States, he will strengthen the middle class, restore workers rights, and guarantee a federal minimum wage that will actually pay the bills. With his leadership, we can finally put an end to exploitative work practices and corporate greed that have decimated hard working American families, and reverse the 40-year decline of the middle class."
The full slate of endorsements includes:

Jonathan Abboud, Trustee, Santa Barbara City College, Santa Barbara 
Victor Aguilar, Jr., Council Member, San Leandro 
Shakeel Ali, Vice President, Jefferson Elementary School District Board of Trustees, Daly City
Violeta Alvarez, Former Mayor, Bell
Chris Barajas, Council Member, Jurupa Valley
"Coach Dave" Barlavi, Trustee (Area 1), Saugus Union School District, Santa Clarita
Chesa Boudin, District Attorney-Elect, San Francisco
Sandy Brown, Council Member, Santa Cruz    
Caleb Castaneda, Trustee-elect, Victor Valley Union High School District, Victorville 
Ruscal Cayangyang, Former President, Vallejo City Unified School District, Vallejo
Kansen Chu, Assemblymember (District 25), San Jose
Dr. Justin Cummings, Vice Mayor, Santa Cruz 
Rod Daus-Magbual, Council Member, Daly City
Drew Glover, Council Member, Santa Cruz
Karalee Hargrove, School Board Member, Morongo Unified School District, Twentynine Palms
Bill Hedrick, Trustee, Riverside Community College District, Riverside 
Ellie Householder, Trustee, Antioch Unified School District, Antioch 
Jewel Hurtado, Council Member, Kingsburg
Al Jabbar, Trustee, Anaheim Union High School District, Anaheim 
Dianne Jones, Trustee, Fremont Unified School District, Fremont
Ash Kalra, Assemblymember (District 27), Hayes
Chris Krohn, Council Member, Santa Cruz
Jose Lara, President, El Rancho Unified School Board, Pico Rivera
John Longville, President, San Bernardino Community College District, San Bernardino
Eduardo Martinez, Council Member, Richmond
Dr. Jose F. Moreno, Council Member, Anaheim
Oscar Ortiz, Council Member, Indio
Jeannine Pearce, Council Member (District 2), Long Beach 
Darrell Peeden, Trustee, Moreno Valley Board of Education, Moreno Valley
Victor Preciado, Vice Mayor, Pomona
Caitlin Quinn, Trustee, Petaluma City Schools Board of Education, Petaluma
Kathy Rallings, President, Carlsbad Unified School District Board of Trustees, Carlsbad
Andres Ramos, Vice President, Compton Community College District, Compton
Matthew Serafin, Trustee, Val Verde Unified School District, Perris
Gracie Torres, Director, Western Municipal Water District, Riverside
Melvin Willis, Council Member, Richmond 

  