
    "I'm here to advance peace, to promote security, and to work with you to achieve a truly free and open Indo-Pacific, where we are proud and we have sovereign nations, and we thrive, and everybody wants to prosper." – President Donald J. Trump
INVESTING IN AMERICAN WORKERS: During his trip through Asia, President Donald J. Trump secured new projects and deals that will bring investment back to the United States and employ American workers.

In China, trade and investment deals potentially worth $250 billion were announced that will create jobs for American workers, increase United States exports to China, and stimulate investment in American communities.
South Korean companies announced 64 new projects that will invest more than $17 billion in the United States over the next four years, as well as plans to purchase $58 billion in United States goods and services, including $23 billion in energy purchases. 
The United States and Vietnam welcomed the conclusion of $12 billion in commercial agreements, which when implemented will include $10 billion in United States content.

FAIR AND RECIPROCAL TRADE: President Trump advanced fair trade between the United States and its partners in Asia, working to end years of one-sided and unbalanced trade that has left too many Americans behind.

In Japan, President Trump delivered clear messages on the need for balanced trade and greater market access commitments, and Japan committed to improving trade in the areas of motor vehicles and life sciences innovation.
President Trump and President Moon of the Republic of Korea stated their commitment to quickly renegotiate the U.S.-Republic of Korea Free Trade Agreement (KORUS) and to reducing the United States' trade deficit with the Republic of Korea and achieving balanced and reciprocal trade between the two countries.
In China, President Trump underscored the importance of rebalancing the bilateral economic relationship and pressed to reduce the trade deficit by eliminating barriers to trade, guaranteeing fair and reciprocal treatment to United States companies and exports, implementing market-oriented reforms, and eliminating forced intellectual property transfer and theft.
President Trump and Vietnamese leaders pledged to deepen and expand bilateral trade and investment relations, in line with the President's commitment to pursuing fair and reciprocal trade with key trading partners. 

DENUCLEARIZE NORTH KOREA: President Trump prioritized advancing the global Maximum Pressure Campaign against North Korea, encouraging all responsible Nations to work to compel the North Korean regime to denuclearize.

President Trump renewed his commitment to enhance Japan's and the Republic of Korea's defense capabilities and to defend both countries against North Korean aggression.

President Trump and President Moon welcomed the adoption of the Republic of Korea's Revised Missile Guidelines (2017) to remove the Republic of Korea's missile payload restrictions in order to better address the North Korean threat. 
President Trump underscored his commitment to making advanced defensive equipment available to Japan. 


During the trip, the United States, Japan, and the Republic of Korea pledged to boost trilateral security cooperation to enhance deterrence against North Korean aggression. 
President Trump and President Xi of China reaffirmed their commitment to achieving complete, verifiable, and irreversible denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula and stated they will not accept North Korea as a nuclear weapons state.

China affirmed it would fully implement United Nations Security Council resolutions to pressure North Korea to eliminate its nuclear and ballistic missile programs.


The President secured new commitments from Vietnam's leaders to increase pressure on North Korea to come back to the path of denuclearization.

PROMOTE A FREE AND OPEN INDO-PACIFIC REGION: President Trump's trip to five Asian nations strengthened existing relations and advanced high-standard rules that will enable regional development and prosperity.

While visiting Japan, the Republic of Korea, China, Vietnam, and the Philippines, President Trump reaffirmed his commitment to promoting prosperity, development, and security in the Indo-Pacific region. 
In Japan, the two nations launched the Strategic Energy Partnership, which supports universal access to affordable and reliable energy, and agreed to cooperate to offer high-quality infrastructure investment options in the Indo-pacific region. 
In the Republic of Korea, President Trump delivered a clear message that the alliance between the United States and the Republic of Korea will be strengthened and grounded in shared values and mutual trust.
In China, President Trump and President Xi constructively exchanged of views on regional security and maritime issues, and agreements were made regarding joint projects on HIV/AIDS and infectious diseases. 
In Vietnam, a new three-year plan of action for defense cooperation was concluded to increase bilateral naval activities, including the formal transfer of United States Coast Guard cutter to the Vietnamese Navy.

President Trump and President Quang welcomed the planned first-ever visit of a United States aircraft carrier to Vietnam in 2018.


In the Philippines, President Trump congratulated President Duterte on the liberation of Marawi City, Mindanao, from ISIS-inspired terrorists and promised increased support from the United States.

President Trump announced an additional $14.3 million for Marawi City to address the humanitarian needs of 360,000 displaced persons and to support stabilization and a speedy recovery.
President Trump announced $2 million to support drug demand reduction programs in the Philippines.


President Trump hosted a trilateral meeting with Prime Minster Turnbull of Australia and Prime Minister Abe of Japan, which was followed by a bilateral meeting between President Trump and Indian Prime Minister Modi. Representatives at the working level from all four countries met to discuss issues related to the Indo-Pacific.

A U.S. COMMITMENT TO ASIA: President Trump attended three summits, reaffirming and strengthening the United States' commitment to the Indo-Pacific region.

The United States supported the successful conclusion of Vietnam's 2017 chairmanship of the Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) forum, an important forum for addressing trade issues in the region.
President Trump celebrated the 50th anniversary of ASEAN and the 40th anniversary of United States-ASEAN ties by releasing a Joint Statement of the ASEAN-United States Commemorative Summit.
President Trump attended the East Asia Summit, the region's premier leader-led forum for addressing the Indo-Pacific's most pressing political and security issues, and rallied international cooperation to address shared regional challenges, including territorial and maritime issues the South China Sea, counterterrorism, and the humanitarian crisis in Burma's Rakhine State.

  