
    Pool Reports by Meryl Kornfield, The Washington Post 



Sent:
Reports:




November 20, 202211:35 ICT

VP travel pool report #1- rolling
Good morning from Bangkok. Today is the last day the Vice President is in Thailand before she departs for the Philippines. The motorcade left the hotel at 11:31 a.m. and is heading to the embassy.
On background as a WH official:

In Bangkok on Sunday, November 20, the Vice President is convening climate activists from Northern Thailand and business leaders who are building a clean energy future. She will speak to them about the threat that the climate crisis poses to the communities who depend on the Mekong River, including from the impacts of upstream development, and how we can work together to address the climate crisis and seize the associated economic opportunities.


The Vice President believes we need all voices at the table to fully understand the impacts of the climate crisis and to develop enduring solutions. She will emphasize the power of coalition building in our climate action efforts.


In addition to the up to $20 million investment the U.S. is making for clean energy in the Mekong region, we anticipate they will also discuss the importance of environmental protection, natural resource governance, youth empowerment, and civic engagement. They will also discuss opportunities for economic development,entrepreneurship and innovation in the clean energy future.




November 20, 202211:39 ICT

VP travel pool report #2 - arrival
The motorcade arrived at the embassy at 11:36 a.m. The pool did not see the Vice President walk into the building, and we are being taken to another entrance. A spray is expected.



November 20, 202212:26 ICT

Travel pool report #3 - round table
The pool was brought into a room in the Embassy where the Vice President was seated at the front of a U-shaped table. Seated to her right was Ambassador Godec who began with remarks about the significance of environmental protection and the role the Vice President has played in that. Then Harris spoke about the threat of the climate crisis in the region and efforts by the United States to address it. The pool shouted questions at Harris about the change in Democratic leadership in the House, but she did not answer and we were ushered out. Quotes and transcript link (please check audio before quoting from Otter) below. We are now holding outside during the meeting.
Quotes from Harris:
"In particular, we know that the climate crisis presents a real threat to communities in Thailand, and Vietnam, Laos and Cambodia."
"We must all work together, civil society, the private sector and governments and that is why we are here and that's why we have this discussion."
"Today, I'm pleased to announce an increase in support from the United States for the Mekong River and region as it seizes the economic opportunity that is associated with clean energy. In particular, I'm proud to announce that the United States plans to provide up to $20 million in funding to the Japan-U.S. Mekong Power Partnership."
Transcript:
https://otter.ai/u/ThoNW-vHUpM45B70BXQmscd39cE
From the White House:
Participants in roundtable: - Vice President Harris- Ambassador Robert Godec, U.S. Ambassador to Thailand- Lisa Buzenas, Consul General, Chiang Mai (moderator)- Niwat Roykaew, Director, Rak Chaing Kong Conservation Group- Paul Sein Twa, Executive Director, Karen Environmental & Social Activist Network (KSEAN)- Ap Sinpimonboon, International Program Manager, Makhampom Theatre Group- M.K. Balaji, Deloitte Team Lead, USAID Southeast Asia Smart Power Program- Chatrapon Sripratum, Vice President, Energy Absolute- Atchara Poomee, Managing Director, PAC Corporation
A note on the first pool report: Your pooler shared a schedule that was FPPO and not reportable. Please disregard that. The White House has since shared reportable guidance for today:
11:50 AM ICT, the Vice President will host a roundtable discussion with environmental and clean energy leaders, including those from Northern Thailand, to discuss the impacts of the climate crisis on communities who depend on the Mekong region and the U.S. commitment to climate action and economic development in the region. This roundtable at the Chief of Mission Residence will have a pool spray at the top covered by an expanded pool.
At 2:20 ICT, the Vice President and Second Gentleman will depart Bangkok, Thailand en route to Manila, Philippines. This departure from Don Mueang International Airport will be pooled press.
At 6:50 PHT, the Vice President and Second Gentleman will arrive at Ninoy Aquino International Airport. This arrival will be pooled press and open to pre-credentialed media.



November 20, 202213:50 ICT

VP travel pool report #4 - gaggle
After the roundtable in the embassy, the pool was brought back into the room for a gaggle with the VP. She walked in at 1:03 p.m. and began with brief remarks about her time at APEC and Thailand, calling it "quite successful." She spoke about discussions she had related to the supply chain and security relationships, ending her comments by calling Thailand "beautiful". She was first asked about her conversation with President Xi and if she talked about North Korea and Taiwan and she reiterated what was shared in an earlier statement that she said the U.S. "intends to keep open lines of communication available." She was then asked if she had talked with Speaker Pelosi or Rep. Jeffries after the Speaker's announcement that she would not stay in Democratic leadership and Jeffies's bid to lead House Democrats. She said that she was "playing phone tag" with the Speaker due to the time difference of 12 hours, adding that she was thankful for Pelosi's "historic" work. About Jeffries, she said "I think he is an outstanding leader and I wish him well. She did not answer any more questions, including one shouted at her as she began to walk away about any discussions with the Russians.
Transcript: https://otter.ai/u/sV9jjld0xRF6oXCPr70qH2ZbfJE
(A draft of this report was sent to WHCA from the poolers personal gmail. please disregard)



November 20, 202214:09 ICT

VP travel pool report #5 - market
The motorcade departed the embassy and was heading to the airport when the Vice President and Second Gentleman stopped at a traditional open-air Thai food market called Or Tor Kor at 1:30 p.m. They walked through aisles, past stalls for spices, fish and other goods. Harris picked out an assortment of items, including red and green curry and peppers. Shoppers there took photos and videos of her and her entourage of U.S. and Thai press, Secret Service and others crowding around.
On background from a White House Official
The Vice President made an unannounced stop at Or Tor Kor Market. She was escorted throughout the market by Preeyawan Sakornyen, a public affairs specialist of the U.S. embassy.



November 20, 202214:37 ICT

VP travel pool report #6 - airport
The motorcade arrived at Ninoy Aquino International Airport and the Vice President stepped out at 2:18 p.m. walking up to Thai officials and Ambassador Godec, speaking with each. Your pooler could not make out most of what was said but heard her at one point mention her market visit. In response to a shouted question, she told the press that she had a fantastic trip to the market, adding that she bought red curry, green curry, three kinds of spices, celery root and peppers. "The Second Gentleman is going to be well fed," she said, laughing. She then posed for a photo with the advance team in front of Air Force Two. She and the Second Gentleman climbed the stairs to the plane, turned back and waved and got on the plane at 2:22 p.m. We are now on our way to Manila.
From the White House:Participants- Vice President Kamala Harris- Second Gentleman Doug Emhoff- Mr. Supattanpong Punmeechaow, Deputy Prime Minister & Minister of Energy, Thailand- Mr. Narcuchai Ninnad, Deputy Director General, Department of Consular Affairs, Ministry of Foreign Affairs- Ms. Wichaya Sinthusen, Minister Counsellor, Department of Consular Affairs, Ministry of Foreign Affairs- Ms. Suwanna Kwangork, Royal Thai Police- Ambassador Robert Godec, U.S. Ambassador to Thailand



November 20, 202219:00 PHST

VP travel pool report #7 - landed
Air Force Two landed at 6:53 p.m. at Ninoy Aquino International Airport in Manila.
(In the previous report, that airport was listed as the departure airport, rather than Don Mueang International Airport, which was the airport we had actually left. My apologies for my error.)




  