
    More leaders endorse Castro as he returns to Iowa
SAN ANTONIO, TX (November 9, 2019) – As Julián Castro returns to Iowa this weekend following the release of a new ad in the state, nine leaders from throughout Iowa endorsed the former U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) Secretary under President Obama and San Antonio Mayor, for president on Saturday highlighting his executive experience and dedication to fighting for all people.
The endorsements follow nine new Texas endorsements on Tuesday from high-profile elected Democrats, including from the top legislative leaders, who were previously committed to former Texas Congressman Beto O'Rourke.
The latest supporters include leaders from Des Moines, Marshalltown, the Quad Cities, Perry and Urbandale.
"I am honored by the support of these leaders who will be true partners in our fight to ensure all Iowans and all Americans have a seat at the table," Secretary Julián Castro said. "We continue to grow momentum and support in every corner of the state, where I am traveling to hear from all Iowans."
Here's what some of Secretary Castro's new endorsers had to say:
"I am supporting Secretary Julián Castro because he understands that it is what makes us different that makes us strong," said Latinx community leader David Calderon. "When we work together, we can overcome all the hate that is thrown at us. Secretary Castro is dedicated to fighting for a future that includes all the people of this country."
"I believe Secretary Castro is the right person for the job because he has already proven that he can handle executive experience," said community leader and retired UAW leader M. Eva Savala. "He was the mayor of one of the largest cities in the country, and then served as President Barack Obama's Secretary of Housing and Urban Development. He has the experience and the strength to lead this country into the future, and that's why I support him."
Those endorsing Secretary Castro on Saturday include:M. Eva Savala, Quad Cities Community Leader and Retired UAW LeaderThomas Lecaque, Grandview Professor, Des MoinesPastor Eduard Carmenate, Des MoinesAntonio Ruiz, Des Moines Business OwnerJuan Meraz, Perry Community LeaderJesus Hernandez, Urbandale Business OwnerAlfonso Medina, Jr., Marshalltown Business OwnerDavid Calderon, Community LeaderHolly Brown, AAPI Caucus Chair
  