
    Los Angeles - On Saturday, November 18, 2007, Hillary Clinton met with approximately 300 women of ethnically diverse backgrounds representing the entertainment and business industry to discuss issues important to women of color. The event, billed as a Conversation with a New Generation of Women Leaders, was held at the home of Chanel and Kevin Brown M.D. in the Lafayette Square district of Los Angeles. The event hosts included Lalanya Masters-Abner, Erika Alexander, Mara Brock-Akil, Salim Akil, Rashawn Levias, Shelby Stone, Effie Brown, Sherri James, Alvera & Keyvan Taheri, Cheyann Benedict, Lisa Meyers, Tajamika Paxton, Stacii Johnson, Gina Holland and Lysa Cooper.
"Women are changing America and it is important that we come together and address the issues that women from every community face," said Clinton. "Working together, we will find solutions to the concerns of today's and tomorrow's women."
The afternoon discussion was aimed at bringing women of different ethnic groups including African-American, Latina, Asian American and Pacific Islanders together for a discussion on issues important to female voters and people of color. Attendees included Reps. Diane Watson and Laura Richardson, Councilwoman Jan Perry and Assemblyman Mervyn Dymally. Also attending were actors America Ferrera, Wendy Raquel Robinson, Erika Alexander, Vanessa A. Williams, Regina King, Chandra Wilson, Tia Mowry, Telma Hopkins, Rosario Dawson, Kasi Lemmons and Richard T. Jones.
During the event, Senator Clinton discussed her agenda for a stronger America through job creation, quality education, health care for all and ending the war in Iraq. She outlined her plans to provide good jobs with good wages; encourage private sector investment and business growth in low-income areas; create more affordable housing in urban neighborhoods and ensure a strong federal-local partnership to fight crime.
In addition, she discussed pertinent issues affecting communities of color such as the disproportionate rates of HIV/AIDS among African-American women and Latinas. Senator Clinton reiterated her support for fully funding the Ryan White Act that improves access to treatment and support for those living with HIV/AIDS. She outlined her American Health Choices Plan, which includes provisions that will eliminate racial and ethnic disparities in health care, increase diversity and cultural and linguistic competency in the health care system.
The Senator also discussed her support for comprehensive immigration reform that includes strengthening America's borders, greater cooperation with our neighbors, strict but fair enforcement of our laws, federal assistance to state and local governments, strict penalties for those who exploit undocumented workers, and a path to earned legal status for those who are here, working hard, paying taxes, respecting the law, and willing to meet a high bar, including learning English. The solution must also protect the sanctity of families and repair the broken, unfair bureaucratic system that forces citizens and lawful immigrants to live apart from their spouses and children.
"Hillary Clinton is an experienced leader who has always supported America's working families," said hosts Chanel and Kevin Brown. "She is an advocate for families and will fight to provide a safer and healthier future for our country."
"I support Hillary Clinton because she will be the change agent that will turn this country around," said Erika Alexander. "Senator Clinton has the experience and the leadership skills to bring this nation together, and fight for our women, our families, and our future."
  