
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Kevin Madden (857) 288-6390
CBN's David Brody: "This is a big one folks. In a Brody File exclusive, we've found out that Paul Weyrich, the former co-founder of The Moral Majority has endorsed Mitt Romney for President. The Brody File has the press release." (David Brody, "Romney Scores Major Endorsement," Christian Broadcasting Network, 11/5/07)
- Brody: "Where do I begin? Let me start by saying that Paul Weyrich is a huge name in the social conservative movement. If you know anything about the conservative movement in this country in the last 30 years or so, you know how big a deal this is." (David Brody, "Romney Scores Major Endorsement," Christian Broadcasting Network, 11/5/07)
- Brody: "Plus, by getting a social conservative guy like Weyrich on board, it gives the Romney campaign a big leap forward to be able to say that Romney is serious about moving a pro-family, traditional value agenda as President." (David Brody, "Romney Scores Major Endorsement," Christian Broadcasting Network, 11/5/07)

The Washington Times' Donald Lambro: "The presidential bid of former Massachusetts Gov. Mitt Romney was endorsed yesterday by conservative leader Paul Weyrich, one of the first major figures among social conservatives to support one of the GOP's top contenders." (Donald Lambro, "Weyrich Backs Romney For '08," The Washington Times, 11/6/07)
CNN's Wolf Blitzer: "Republican presidential candidate Mitt Romney is touting a new and coveted endorsement meant to bolster his standing with conservatives." (CNN's "Situation Room," 11/5/07)
Fox News' Brit Hume: "Republican presidential candidate Mitt Romney has picked up the endorsement of long-time conservative leader Paul Weyrich, who helped found Moral Majority and started the Heritage Foundation. Weyrich says Romney already has an exceptional record of putting conservative values to work." (Fox News' "Special Report," 11/5/07)
The Atlantic's Marc Ambinder: "Paul Weyrich is one of those conservatives whose name means something to other conservatives and whose pedigree imparts upon the recipient of his endorsement a layer of respect." (Marc Ambinder, "Paul Weyrich Endorses Mitt Romney," The Atlantic, 11/5/07)
The Politico's Jonathan Martin: "Making inroads among the ranks of conservative elites, Mitt Romney's campaign has won the backing of Free Congress founder Paul Weyrich." (Jonathan Martin, "Romney Gets Weyrich," The Politico, 11/5/07)
The New York Times' Michael Luo: "Mitt Romney has landed a much-coveted endorsement from the social conservative world: Paul Weyrich, chairman of the Free Congress Foundation and one of the founders back in the day of the Moral Majority." (Michael Luo, "Romney Lands Big Endorsement," The New York Times' "The Caucus," 11/5/07)
The Boston Globe's Michael Levenson: "Paul M. Weyrich, considered by many to be the father of the modern religious conservative movement, yesterday became the latest in a string of prominent conservative leaders to endorse Mitt Romney for president." (Michael Levenson, "Romney Wins Backing From Paul Weyrich," The Boston Globe, 11/6/07)
The Boston Globe's Foon Rhee: "Mitt Romney today snagged a major endorsement from a pivotal figure for social conservatives." (Foon Rhee, "Romney Gets Big Endorsement," The Boston Globe's "Political Intelligence," 11/5/07)
Los Angeles Times' Andrew Malcolm: "Score another touchdown for Mitt Romney in the Republican struggle for the party's conservative family values base." (Andrew Malcolm, "Breaking News: Romney Reaps Big Conservative Endorsement," Los Angeles Times' "Top Of The Ticket," 11/5/07)
- Malcolm: "... [T]his adds substantially to a sense of conservative momentum toward Romney." (Andrew Malcolm, "Breaking News: Romney Reaps Big Conservative Endorsement," Los Angeles Times' "Top Of The Ticket," 11/5/07)

The Hill's Sam Youngman: "The man credited with coining the phrase 'Moral Majority,' leading conservative Paul Weyrich, is endorsing former Massachusetts Gov. Mitt Romney's (R) bid for president." (Sam Youngman, "Romney Scores Key Conservative Backing," The Hill, 11/5/07)
- Youngman: "Weyrich's backing is a major coup for Romney..." (Sam Youngman, "Romney Scores Key Conservative Backing," The Hill, 11/5/07)

The Wall Street Journal: "Mitt Romney picked up the endorsement of influential conservative Paul Weyrich, head of the Free Congress Research and Education Foundation and co-founder of the Heritage Foundation. ... His endorsement gives Romney a boost as he heads into primary season." ("Romney Gets Major Endorsement," The Wall Street Journal's "Washington Wire," 11/5/07)
National Review Online's Jim Geraghty: "The endorsements just keep coming for Mitt Romney. Today, Paul Weyrich." (Jim Geraghty, "Weyrich Backs Romney," National Review's "The Campaign Spot," 11/5/07)
The American Spectator's Philip Klein: "A major pickup." (Philip Klein, "Paul Weyrich Endorses Romney," The American Spectator, 11/5/07)
Hot Air's Bryan Preston: "Endorsements don't mean as much as they once did, but this one strikes me as a big deal. ... Weyrich is among the handful of activists who can claim to have been present at the founding of the social conservative movement, and he's endorsing Romney." (Bryan Preston, "Moral Majority Co-Founder Paul Weyrich Endorses Mitt Romney," Hot Air, 11/5/07)
Americans For Tax Reform President Grover Norquist: "This is a significant boon for the Romney campaign. ... Weyrich's endorsement will speak loudly to conservatives in general - guys who care about guns and taxes and everything else, but especially religious conservatives." (Michael Levenson, "Romney Wins Backing From Paul Weyrich," The Boston Globe, 11/6/07)
In The Headlines:
The Associated Press: "Longtime Conservative Leader Backs Romney For President."
(Glen Johnson, "Longtime Conservative Leader Backs Romney For President," The Associated Press, 11/5/07)
The Boston Globe: "Romney Gets Big Endorsement."
(Foon Rhee, "Romney Gets Big Endorsement," The Boston Globe's "Political Intelligence," 11/5/07)
CBN: "Romney Scores Major Endorsement."
(David Brody, "Romney Scores Major Endorsement," Christian Broadcasting Network, 11/5/07)
CNN: "Prominent Conservative Backs Romney."
(Mark Preston, "Prominent Conservative Backs Romney," CNN, 11/5/07)
The Hill: "Romney Scores Key Conservative Backing."
(Sam Youngman, "Romney Scores Key Conservative Backing," The Hill, 11/5/07)
Los Angeles Times: "Breaking News: Romney Reaps Big Conservative Endorsement."
(Andrew Malcolm, "Breaking News: Romney Reaps Big Conservative Endorsement," Los Angeles Times' "Top Of The Ticket," 11/5/07)
The New York Times: "Romney Lands Big Endorsement."
(Michael Luo, "Romney Lands Big Endorsement," The New York Times' "The Caucus," 11/5/07)
Townhall: "It's Official: Romney Is The Social Conservative Alternative."
(Matt Lewis, "It's Official: Romney Is The Social Conservative Alternative," Townhall, 11/5/07)
The Wall Street Journal: "Romney Gets Major Endorsement."
("Romney Gets Major Endorsement," The Wall Street Journal's "Washington Wire," 11/5/07)
  