
    The following listing includes the President's daily schedule and other items of general interest as announced by the White House Press Office during the period covered by this issue. Events and announcements printed elsewhere in the issue are not included.
November 18
The President announced that U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations Andrew Young will lead a delegation to the Republic of Guinea on the occasion of the celebrations of the 20th anniversary of that nation's independence. Ambassador Young will be accompanied by Mayor Kenneth Gibson of Newark, N.J., Deputy Assistant Secretary of State William C. Harrop, Paul C. Porter, a Boston business consultant, and Richard Trabulsi, a Houston businessman. The delegation will depart for Conakry, Guinea, November 20.
November 20
The President met at the White House with:
—Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs;
—the Cabinet;
—Vice President Walter F. Mondale. Chancellor Helmut Schmidt of the Federal Republic of Germany telephoned the President in the morning. They discussed the Middle East, the strategic arms limitation talks, the multilateral trade negotiations, and other international economic matters of mutual concern.
November 21
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Representative Robert C. Krueger of Texas;
—Ambassador Robert S. Strauss, Special Representative for Trade Negotiations;
—Vice President Mondale, Adm. Stansfield Turner, Director of Central Intelligence, Hamilton Jordan, Assistant to the President, and Dr. Brzezinski;
—Senate Majority Leader Robert C. Byrd;
—Clem Renouf, president of Rotary International;
—Mrs. Carter, for lunch;
—James T. Mcintyre, Jr., Director of the Office of Management and Budget.
In a ceremony in the Oval Office, the President received a framed copy of the 1978 Christmas Seals from representatives of the American Lung Association.
The White House announced that Tunisian Prime Minister Hedi Nouira has accepted President Carter's invitation to make an official visit to the United States. The Prime Minister will arrive in Washington November 29 and meet with the President and various other senior United States officials during his visit. Details of the visit are being discussed between the two governments
November 22
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Charles L. Schultze, Chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers. The President left the White House to spend the Thanksgiving holiday weekend at Camp David, Md.
  