
    
  Monsignor Ed Lofton supports Cruz for President

HOUSTON, Texas — Presidential candidate Ted Cruz today announced the endorsement of Monsignor Ed Lofton, a respected and influential Catholic leader in the state of South Carolina.
Monsignor Lofton is the parish priest at St. Theresa Catholic Church in Summerville, of which 1,200 families are members. He also serves as the state chaplain of the Knights of Columbus 4th degree and serves on numerous diocesan boards. Lofton is responsible for the Propagation of the Faith for the Diocese of Charleston, a worldwide mission organization for the Catholic Church.
"I am pleased to have earned Monsignor Lofton's endorsement," Ted Cruz said. "He has spoken out about the harm of abortion and the violation of religious liberty, but he doesn't stop there – in his parish he raises funds for at-risk women, leads prayer vigils, and is a marriage counselor. I admire his faithful service. The Catholic vote is important in the early states and beyond: I have enjoyed getting to know Monsignor Lofton and other church leaders as we continue building relationships in the Catholic community."
"I am very pleased to give my personal endorsement to Ted Cruz for President of the United States," Lofton said. "I have followed Ted's time in office and know that he governs grounded in the essential value of protecting life and liberty for all people. I am confident that Ted has the intelligence and the will to lead our nation in a positive direction. The church must not be silent as the nation chooses the leaders who will shape its future. I am personally working for the election of Ted Cruz, and I urge all those who love liberty and life to join me in giving Ted Cruz our support and our votes."
Monsignor Lofton is an Air Force veteran with degrees in Public Administration and experience in city administration. He has been an ordained Catholic priest for nearly 30 years and leads the annual priest's retreat for South Carolina Catholic priests. Lofton is known for his vocal criticism of the Obama Administration, its impact on people of faith, and the Administration's constant attacks on life, marriage, and religious liberty.
*Titles and affiliations of Monsignor Ed Lofton are provided for identification purposes only.
  