
    Today, President Donald J. Trump announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to a key position in his Administration:
Finch Fulton of Alabama, to be an Assistant Secretary of Transportation (Transportation Policy). 
Finch Fulton has served as a member of the President's Transition Team, focusing on Transportation and Infrastructure Policy and with the Department of Transportation as a Special Advisor to the Secretary on Transportation Policy. Before this, he worked for Congressman Jim McCrery and Congressman John Fleming, M.D., in the United States House of Representatives and in the United States Senate for Senator Jeff Sessions. He has also worked in public affairs at VOX Global, devising and executing integrated policy and advocacy campaigns. He is a native of Mobile, Alabama, and a graduate of the University of Alabama. He earned his MBA from Johns Hopkins University.
David A. Wright of South Carolina, to be a Member of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission.
David A. Wright was sworn in as a Commissioner of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) on May 30, 2018, and is currently serving the remainder of a five-year term ending June 30, 2020. Before joining the NRC, Commissioner Wright served as an energy and water consultant and policy advisor on nuclear waste issues. He is a former President of the National Association of Regulatory Utility Commissioners and served as Vice Chairman and Chairman of the South Carolina Public Service Commission. He was also elected councilman and mayor in Irmo, South Carolina, and he served in the South Carolina House of Representatives. He is a 1977 graduate of Clemson University.—Today, President Donald J. Trump announced his intent to appoint the following individuals to key positions in his Administration:
Michael Lucci of Virginia, to be a Member to the Federal Service Impasses Panel.
The following individuals to be Members of the Commission of Fine Arts:

James McCrery of the District of Columbia
Duncan G. Stroik of Indiana

The following individuals to be Members for the Board of Directors of the National Board for Education Sciences:

Joe May of Texas
Chester Finn of Maryland
David J. Francis of Texas

  