
    (Bedminster, NJ) - President-elect Donald J. Trump and Vice President-elect Mike Pence today held a second day of meetings at the Trump National Golf Club in Bedminster, New Jersey. Mr. Ari Emanuel was their first meeting of the day. They had a good conversation with a longtime friend about business, politics and bridging the political divide across America.
The President-elect and Vice President-elect then met with Mr. Peter Kasinow. They had a substantive conversation about labor laws, regulations and freeing up commerce to create more jobs in America.
An in-depth conversation followed with Mr. Jon Gray. Their discussion included the economy, global capital markets and the world financial situation. Future legislation regarding the tax code and long-term debt were also discussed.
The President-elect and Vice President-elect then met with Mr. Kris Kobach to discuss border security, international terrorism, and reforming federal bureaucracy.
This was followed by a great discussion with Mr. Wilbur Ross. They engaged in a conversation regarding negotiating the best foreign deals, American manufacturing and job creation. Their discussion also focused on engaging Ambassadors to participate in creating more economic opportunities for America.
A productive discussion was held with New Jersey Governor Chris Christie. Topics of domestic security, law enforcement and the American Justice system were included in their meeting.
The President-elect and Vice President-elect had an open discussion on administration priorities with longtime ally former New York Mayor Rudy Giuliani. Additionally, they conversed about restoring America's prominence in the world, ongoing national security issues and threats at various hotspots on a global basis.
Prior to his departure to Indiana, Vice President-elect Pence met privately with Governor Christie and Mayor Giuliani.
In the meeting with Mr. Robert Johnson, President-elect Trump and Vice President-elect Pence considered many opportunities for access to capital in small businesses and the issues facing the inner cities of America. Their focus was on the creation of high-paying jobs in both manufacturing and service industries. They also touched on the critical nature of reviving inner city economies through principles of capitalism.
The meeting between President-elect Trump, Vice President-elect Pence and Mr. David McCormick involved a discussion on global financial markets, currency and the American economy. Special emphasis was placed on restoring long-term economic growth rates on an annual basis of four to five percent.
President-elect Trump, Vice President-elect Pence met with Former Oklahoma House Speaker T.W. Shannon to discuss transportation, infrastructure and issues relating to Western land usage.
President-elect Trump and Vice President-elect Pence met with Chair of the House Republican Conference Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers to discuss the optimization of federal lands across the country, energy exploration and mining. They also focused on opportunities for working families and the importance of greater access to services for children with special needs.
The last meeting of the evening occured with General John Kelly. They had a frank discussion about the global national security situation in the United States and various areas of conflict in the Middle East. Additionally, they discussed General Kelly's diplomatic experience during his time as the Commander of United States Southern Command in Latin America and as a Combat Commander in various areas of conflict in the Middle East.
  