
    President Obama and Indonesian President Yudhoyono have made strengthening science and technology collaboration a central part of the U.S.-Indonesia Comprehensive Partnership, and recently announced several new initiatives while highlighting ongoing flagship programs.
A Science and Technology Cooperation Agreement was signed earlier this year, providing a legal framework for expanded bilateral cooperation and collaboration on a broad range of issues, including science-based decision making, health sciences, energy, marine research, and the environment. Once it enters into force, the Agreement will allow for the creation of a Joint Committee on Science and Technology Cooperation, which will review joint research projects, matters of importance in the fields of science and technology research, and policies related to the overall scientific and technological research relationship.
In May, Dr. Bruce Alberts, editor-in-chief of Science magazine and former President of the U.S. National Academy of Sciences, traveled to Indonesia as part of the new U.S. Science Envoy Program announced by President Obama in 2009. Dr. Alberts established and strengthened linkages with research institutions across the country, seeking ways to advance opportunity, prosperity, and security in the United States and Indonesia by addressing issues of common concern and advancing cooperation in areas of mutual interest.
As a result of Dr. Alberts' engagement, the United States is establishing a National Academies Frontiers of Science program in Indonesia to deepen collaboration between early-career scientists in our two countries, to which the U.S. Government already contributed $250,000. The five-year program will bring together young scientists, engineers, and medical professionals from Indonesia and the United States to discuss advances in their fields and the challenges facing Southeast Asia. It will provide a forum for researchers under the age of 45 to encourage collective and one-on-one discussions among participants, strengthening linkages between American and Indonesian science and technology communities.
In support of the President's vision of an enhanced science and technology partnership, many U.S. agencies are working with their Indonesian counterparts on a range of innovative programs and projects. The U.S. National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) is finalizing negotiations on a Statement of Intent addressing future cooperation with Indonesia in a number of potential areas, including capacity building and education, earth science applications for societal benefits, scientific data exchange, space weather monitoring and research, and measuring and monitoring emissions and the impacts of climate change. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), and the Jakarta Provincial Government, launched Breathe Easy, Jakarta, engaging key partners including the U.S. Trade and Development Agency (USTDA) in a program designed to assess and reduce key sources of urban air pollution in Jakarta; EPA and USTDA combined funding of $741,000 will support the five year program.
This spring, the U.S. National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration's (NOAA) vessel Okeanos Explorer conducted the first-ever joint voyage with Indonesia's Baruna Jaya IV, capturing topography of Indonesia's ocean floor in greater detail than ever before. Preparations for a second voyage are underway. In addition, the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) has invested approximately $10 million to improve all aspects of biotechnology crop development; and to support universities collaborations for pest management research targeted towards protecting high value crops, such as cocoa, coffee, horticulture crops.
Recognizing that science and technology are the engines of future growth and prosperity, we have placed special emphasis in our Higher Education Partnership - announced by President Obama and President Yudhoyono in June - on programs and bilateral cooperation in these areas. Under the new Fulbright Indonesia Research, Science and Technology (FIRST) scholarship program, we will partner with Indonesia to support science and technology educational exchange. With $20 million in support from USAID, we continue to develop invigorated University Partnerships using joint research in science and technology-based fields such as health, biodiversity conservation, energy, climate and agriculture with a focus on training, education and capacity building to enhance Indonesian innovation.
The United States will continue to support exchanges between emerging young professionals and leading local government officials in the field of climate change with a view to increasing public awareness of climate change issues and creating more sustainable communities. The United States also plans to build linkages between the Indonesian and United States' Academies of Science, and to help Indonesia build and bolster its culture of science, the United States and Indonesia intend to work together through USAID's robust program efforts to improve education to create model schools that use science-based teaching pedagogies and enhance opportunities for Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math (STEM) education.
  