
    Joseph Max Cleland, of Georgia, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Export-Import Bank of the United States for a term expiring January 20, 2007, vice Dorian Vanessa Weaver, term expired.
Ann M. Corkery, of Virginia, to be an Alternate Representative of the United States of America to the Fifty-eighth Session of the General Assembly of the United Nations.
Lawrence T. Di Rita, of Michigan, to be an Assistant Secretary of Defense, vice Victoria Clarke.
Jaymie Alan Durnan, of New Hampshire, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Army, vice Mario P. Fiori.
April H. Foley, of New York, to be First Vice President of the Export-Import Bank of the United States for the remainder of the term expiring January 20, 2005, vice Eduardo Aguirre, Jr., resigned.
Benjamin A. Gilman, of New York, to be a Representative of the United States of America to the Fifty-eighth Session of the General Assembly of the United Nations.
Sanford Gottesman, of Texas, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation for a term expiring December 17, 2005, vice Gary A. Barron, term expired.
Walid Maalouf, of Virginia, to be an Alternate Representative of the United States of America to the Fifty-eighth Session of the General Assembly of the United Nations.
Robert Hurley McKinney, of Indiana, to be a Member of the Advisory Board for Cuba Broadcasting for a term expiring October 27, 2004, vice William A. Geoghegan, term expired.
Diane M. Ruebling, of California, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation for a term expiring December 17, 2005. (Reappointment)
James M. Strock, of California, to be a Member of the United States Advisory Commission on Public Diplomacy for a term expiring July 1, 2006, vice Penny Percy Korth, term expired.
C. William Swank, of Ohio, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation for a term expiring December 17, 2005. (Reappointment)
Franklin S. Van Antwerpen, of Pennsylvania, to be United States Circuit Judge for the Third Circuit, vice Edward R. Becker, retired.
WITHDRAWALS SENT TO THE SENATE:
April H. Foley, of New York, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Export-Import Bank of the United States for a term expiring January 20, 2007, vice Dan Herman Renberg, term expired, which were sent to the Senate on April 10, 2003, and May 14, 2003.
  