
    On Wednesday, November 26, 2014, the President signed into law:
H.R. 1233, the "Presidential and Federal Records Act Amendments of 2014," which establishes and amends several procedures related to Presidential and Federal records management;
H.R. 4194, the "Government Reports Elimination Act of 2014," which eliminates and modifies certain statutory requirements for reports to Congress;
S. 885, which designates the facility of the United States Postal Service located in Danville, Vermont, as the Thaddeus Stevens Post Office;
S. 898, the "Albuquerque, New Mexico, Federal Land Conveyance Act of 2013," which authorizes the General Services Administration to convey certain real property located in Albuquerque, New Mexico, to the Amy Biehl High School Foundation;
S. 1093, which designates the facility of the United States Postal Service located in Hazlehurst, Mississippi, as the First Lieutenant Alvin Chester Cockrell, Jr. Post Office Building;
S. 1499, which designates the facility of the United States Postal Service located in Chadron, Nebraska, as the Sergeant Cory Mracek Memorial Post Office;
S. 1512, which designates the facility of the United States Postal Service located in Rochester, New York, as the Specialist Theodore Matthew Glende Post Office;
S. 1934, the "Clifford P. Hansen Federal Courthouse Conveyance Act," which authorizes the General Services Administration to convey the Clifford P. Hansen Federal Courthouse to Teton County, Wyoming;
S. 2141, the "Sunscreen Innovation Act," which modifies the process for the review and approval of over-the-counter sunscreen ingredients by the Food and Drug Administration;
S. 2539, the "Traumatic Brain Injury Reauthorization Act of 2014," which reauthorizes appropriations for programs and activities at the Department of Health and Human Services relating to the study, prevention, and treatment of traumatic brain injury (TBI); improves coordination of Federal TBI activities; and studies brain-injury management in children; and
S. 2583, the "Enhance Labeling, Accessing, and Branding of Electronic Licenses Act of 2014" or the "E-LABEL Act," which promotes the non-exclusive use of electronic labeling for certain devices licensed by the Federal Communications Commission.
  