
    Belknap County Attorney Jim Carroll, Rep. Gail Morrison, Rep. Beth Arsenault announce endorsements, joining Rep. Judie Reever
Manchester, NH -- Belknap County Attorney Jim Carroll of Laconia, Representative Beth Arsenault of Laconia, and Representative Gail Morrison of Sanbornton announced today that they have endorsed Barack Obama. Carroll and Representatives Arsenault and Morrison join Representative Judie Reever - who endorsed Obama last month-in working to organize the Lakes Region for real change.
"I'm thrilled to have the support of Jim Carroll, Gail Morrison, Beth Arsenault and Judie Reever as part of our unmatched grassroots organization," Senator Obama said. "These dedicated New Hampshire activists understand better than anyone that real change comes from the bottom up-and it starts with the great work they're doing in the Lakes Region."
Jim Caroll was elected Belknap County Attorney in 2006. He previously served as a Laconia Police Department prosecutor.
Representative Gail Morrison was the only Democratic state representative elected in 2004 from Belknap County.
Representative Beth Arsenault has served in the state legislature on the Children and Family Law Committee since 2006. She has also served on the Laconia School Board for nine years and is on the Board of Directors of the New Hampshire School Board Association.
Representative Judie Reever has served in the New Hampshire House on the Education Committee and Costing Commission since 2006. She is the former Chair of the New Hampshire State Board of Education and President of the New Hampshire School Board Association. She also served 21 years on the Laconia School Board. Representative Reever is a member of New Hampshire Educators for Obama.
On Tuesday, November 20, at 7:30 PM, Obama will host a Meet the Candidate event at Memorial Middle School in Laconia. The event is free and open to the public. Those interested in attending should RSVP to John Oxtoby at (603) 528-0008. For media credentials, please email nh-media@barackobama.com.
  