
    Mr. Prime Minister, our distinguished guests:
Let me say to you, Mr. Prime Minister, it is a great pleasure to welcome you to our country and to Washington and to this evening with your many friends as well as others. And this is, of course, a continuation of the first meetings we had in Brussels last spring.
I was just saying that I had the impression then, and I am even more impressed now, of your able spokesmanship on behalf of not only your country but the views that we share and the feelings that we have. And I congratulate you on the strong positions and the firm views that you have taken in your new role at the United Nations.
I spoke to you this morning, and I wondered how even a young person like yourself could handle all of your responsibilities--Prime Minister, Foreign Minister, Minister of Commerce, President of the United Nations General Assembly, upcoming President, as of January of 1976, of the Council of Ministers of the European Community. If I was going to take a vacation, Mr. President, I am sure I would not volunteer for your responsibilities. [Laughter]
I also understand that on the side you are the Minister of Physical Education and Sports of Luxembourg. Can I volunteer for that? [Laughter]
Mr. Prime Minister, we admire your talent and your versatility, your energy, and obviously, your accomplishments. And I am honored to consult with you on the issues that we discussed this morning of such great importance to our countries and to the mutual interests of our nations.
As we discussed in Brussels and as we discussed subsequently, the ties on a bilateral relationship between Luxembourg and the United States are very close. And as far as I know, there are no problems whatsoever, and we are most grateful for this close and, I think, successful relationship between our countries.
The meetings we had this spring in Brussels of the NATO nations brought our respective allies together more closely than we had seen in the past, and it is, I hope, only a building stone and a step forward to greater solidarity in the months ahead.
The new responsibilities, of course, that you have in New York I don't envy. [Laughter] We strongly support, despite some of the recent problems, the United Nations. As you may have noticed, I said the United States, despite disappointments and losses, ought not to, under any circumstances, leave the United Nations.
We believe that it is better to fight within than to stand on the outside without participating. And so, our good Ambassador is going to fight within, with restraint and success. But we support what you represent, Mr. President and Mr. Prime Minister.
What I would like to do is just to commend you for your great leadership at home, your great leadership in the Community, your fine performance as head of the General Assembly, and your overall rapport that our countries have. And I am proud and privileged to have you as our guest in the White House on this occasion.
Let me assure you that the American people support what you believe in and the things that you represent and those that your country represent.
So, may I offer a toast, Mr. President, to the Prime Minister, to our continued close ties, and to His Royal Highness, the Grand Duke Jean.
  