
    The Rudy Giuliani Presidential Committee today announced that Pat Robertson has endorsed Rudy Giuliani for President of the United States.
"It is my pleasure to announce my support for America's Mayor, Rudy Giuliani, a proven leader who is not afraid of what lies ahead and who will cast a hopeful vision for all Americans," said Pat Robertson. "Rudy Giuliani took a city that was in decline and considered ungovernable and reduced its violent crime, revitalized its core, dramatically lowered its taxes, cut through a welter of bureaucratic regulations, and did so in the spirit of bipartisanship which is so urgently needed in Washington today."
"I am very encouraged by Pat's support," Rudy Giuliani said. "His confidence in me means a lot. His experience and advice will be a great asset to me and my campaign."
About M.G. "Pat" Robertson:
M. G. "Pat" Robertson has achieved national and international recognition as a religious broadcaster, philanthropist, humanitarian, educator, religious leader, businessman, and author. He is the founder and chairman of The Christian Broadcasting Network (CBN) Inc., and founder of International Family Entertainment Inc., Regent University, Operation Blessing International Relief and Development Corporation, American Center for Law and Justice, The Flying Hospital, Inc. and several other organizations and broadcast entities.
After graduating with honors from McCallie School in Chattanooga, Tennessee, a military prep school, Robertson entered Washington and Lee University in 1946, where he was elected to Phi Beta Kappa. In 1948 he enlisted in the U.S. Marine Corps Reserve. After graduating magna cum laude with a Bachelor of Arts degree from Washington and Lee in 1950, Robertson served as the assistant adjutant of the First Marine Division in combat in Korea. He was promoted to first lieutenant in 1952 upon his return to the United States. Robertson received a juris doctor degree from Yale University Law School in 1955 and a master of divinity degree from New York Theological Seminary in 1959.
In November 1959 Robertson left New York with his wife, Dede, and their three children and drove to Tidewater, Virginia, where he planned to buy a bankrupt UHF television station in Portsmouth. Arriving with only seventy dollars in his pocket, Robertson proceeded to raise the finances to purchase the station. CBN was formed January 11, 1960, and on October 1, 1961, CBN went on the air for the first time.
Robertson is the author of sixteen books including "Courting Disaster," "The Ten Offenses," "Bring It On," "Six Steps To Revival," "The Turning Tide," "The New Millennium," "The New World Order," and his first fiction, "The End of the Age." "The Secret Kingdom" was number three on Time magazine's national non-fiction list. "The New World Order" was number four on the New York Times' non-fiction list of America's best selling books. "The Secret Kingdom," "Answers to 100 of Life's Most Probing Questions," and "The New World Order" were each in their respective year of publication the number one religious book in America.
Numerous governors, state legislators and mayors have recognized Robertson's humanitarian efforts with citations. Robertson is past president of the prestigious Council on National Policy. In 1982 he served on President Ronald Reagan's Task Force on Victims of Crime. He previously served as a member of the Board of the Virginia Economic Development Partnership and on the Governor's Council of Economic Advisors in the State of Virginia.
Pat and Dede Robertson have four children and fourteen grandchildren and reside in Virginia Beach, Virginia.
  