
    Governor Romney On Headline News' "Glenn Beck":
Glenn Beck: "Why is it or what is it going to take in Washington for both parties to understand the American people are serious on the border? I mean, Spitzer finally gets it. Clinton was astonishing, how she was trying to play the fence, or ride the fence on driver's licenses. Will you give driver's licenses – or let me rephrase this, what do you do to California or San Francisco, who said we're going to – we'll introduce our own ID for illegal aliens?"
Governor Romney: "Here's what you do. First of all, if they're going to give driver's licenses to them, you say, you know what, we're going to cut back on federal highway funds to any state that gives driver's licenses to illegals. Number two, if you have a state like Mike Huckabee's state in Arkansas that fights to give people a tuition break if they're an illegal in their state, you say no, you're not going to do that. If you do that, we're going to cut back on higher education funding. And number three, if you have a city like Mayor Giuliani's city, New York City, that says that it's a sanctuary city, they're going to provide benefits to people that come here illegally, you say, we're going to cut back on federal funding to those cities as well. We can end the magnets that draw people here illegally – illegal employment by having an employment verification system, the sanctuary state of mind which you see in sanctuary cities, sanctuary tuition breaks, sanctuary driver's licenses. All these things are bad ideas and the American people are going to speak so loud and clear on this issue it's going to get done."
To Watch Governor Romney, Please See: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jN36O_l9xGg
Governor Romney On "The Michael Reagan Show":
Governor Romney: "It's the number one issue I hear about. No question about it. Eliot Spitzer did the nation a service by putting the issue out there because it reveals Hillary Clinton for who she is. There is a sanctuary state of mind in this country, and it's not just Democrats, it's also Republicans. You had a mayor of New York that said we're going to give sanctuary status to any illegal. They got welcomed to New York City. I think that's a mistake. You had, in the case of Governor Huckabee of Arkansas, a governor who said let's give tuition breaks to illegals living in our state so that you have the children of illegals getting a lower tuition rate than the children of citizens from the other 49 states. That kind of sanctuary state of mind has got to end."
To Listen To Governor Romney, Please See: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uZk4TOLHNN4
  