
    Pool Reports by Courtney Subramanian, Los Angeles Times 



Sent:
Reports:




November 16, 202205:40 WITA

Travel pool report #1 - POTUS to speak to Duda
Good morning from Bali.
I'll be your print pooler for this last day of the G20 before the long haul back to Washington later today.
Passing along this WH statement: "POTUS has been briefed on the reports out of Poland and will be speaking with President Andrzej Duda of Poland shortly."
Please reach out with any questions.



November 16, 202205:54 WITA

Travel pool report #2 - Biden and Duda speak
From the White House: The President spoke by phone with President Andrzej Duda of Poland from Bali, Indonesia. The call concluded at 5:30am local time.



November 16, 202207:03 WITA

Travel pool report #3 - Biden speaks with Stoltenberg
The President spoke by phone with NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg. The call concluded at 6:13am local time, per WH.



November 16, 202208:22 WITA

Travel pool report #4 - FPPO added event
Pool has been swept and tested for covid.
FPPO NOT reportable.
We are now moving for a previously unannounced event here at the Grand Hyatt. POTUS will address the situation with Poland in a meeting with other world leaders.
Pool spotted Justin Trudeau arriving ahead of the meeting.
More TK
Here is a reminder of today's schedule (Bali time/EST+13/GMT+8) and the subsequent flight home:
9:00 AM THE PRESIDENT participates in a mangrove tree planting with G20 LeadersHutan Mangrove Forrest, Bali, IndonesiaRestricted Out-of-Town Pool
11:30 AM THE PRESIDENT meets with Prime Minister Rishi Sunak of the United KingdomGrand Hyatt Hotel, Bali, IndonesiaOut-of-Town Pool Spray
1:10 PM THE PRESIDENT departs Bali, Indonesia en route GuamNgurah Rai International Airport, Bali, IndonesiaOut-of-Town Pool
ChST
8:10 PM THE PRESIDENT arrives in Guam for a refuel stopAndersen Air Force Base, GuamOut-of-Town Pool
9:40 PM THE PRESIDENT departs Guam en route Honolulu, HawaiiAndersen Air Force Base, GuamOut-of-Town PoolHST
8:50 AM THE PRESIDENT arrives in Honolulu, Hawaii for a refuel stopDaniel K. Inouye International Airport, Honolulu, HawaiiOut-of-Town Pool
10:20 AM THE PRESIDENT departs Honolulu, Hawaii en route Joint Base AndrewsDaniel K. Inouye International Airport, Honolulu, HawaiiOut-of-Town Pool
EST
11:30 PM In-Town Pool Call Time
11:40 PM THE PRESIDENT arrives at Joint Base AndrewJoint Base AndrewsOut-of-Town Pool
12:00 AM THE PRESIDENT arrives at the White HouseSouth LawnOpen Press (Gather 11:50 PM – Palm Room Doors)



November 16, 202208:41 WITA

Travel pool report #5 - meeting link on website
Please advise: the WH has added a live link for the meeting on Whitehouse.gov/live
"President Biden holds an emergency Roundtable with world leaders."
https://youtu.be/o46WxDE3aNA



November 16, 202209:00 WITA

Travel pool report #6 - meeting spray
Pool was ushered into a conference room at 8:55 am where POTUS and other leaders were seated around an oval table with placards displaying the attending countries and officials: France, Germany, USA, Spain, Canada, UK, Italy, Japan, EU, the Netherlands and European Commission.
POTUS did not offer comment.
Responding to a shouted question about whether he could offer an update about what he knew about the explosion, POTUS replied: "no."
Pool was ushered out shortly after.
WH official: The president has convened a meeting of leaders on the explosion and loss of life in Eastern Poland.
In attendance:
Chancellor Olaf Scholz of the Federal Republic of GermanyPrime Minister Justin Trudeau of CanadaPresident Emmanuel Macron of the French RepublicPrime Minister Giorgia Meloni of the Italian RepublicPrime Minister Kishida Fumio of JapanPrime Minister Rishi Sunak of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern IrelandPresident Ursula von der Leyen of the European CommissionPresident Charles Michel of the European Council



November 16, 202209:35 WITA

Travel pool report #7 - meeting ongoing
Pool held outside in the punishing heat before we were moved inside into an air-conditioned room next to the ongoing meeting.
We're still tracking to see Biden at least twice more today for the mangrove event and a bilat with UK.
Also in attendance, per WH:
Also in attendance for the meeting of leaders on the explosion and loss of life in Eastern Poland:
Prime Minister Pedro Sanchez of the Kingdom of SpainPrime Minister Mark Rutte of the Netherlands



November 16, 202209:42 WITA

Travel pool report #8 - awaiting remarks from POTUS
Pool was hustled back outside the building and positioned in a grassy area near the motorcade. We're waiting brief remarks from POTUS.
Stay tuned.



November 16, 202209:51 WITA

Travel pool report #9 - 2-minute warning
Until POTUS speaks.



November 16, 202210:05 WITA

Travel pool report #10 - POTUS talks
POTUS emerged from the building at 9:53am.
He came over to press and spoke for 3 minutes.
Briefed NATO and G-7 leaders on his conversations with Duda and Stoltenberg.
Support Poland's investigation to figure out "exactly what happened"
"Totally unconscionable" with what they're doing, he says if Russia.
Moment when the world came together at the G-20 to urge de-escalation, Russia continues to escalate in Ukraine, he says, referring to "score and scores of missile attacks in western Ukraine."
Asked whether it was too early to say the missile came from Russia, Biden said there's "preliminary information that contests that. I don't want to say that until we completely investigate."
"It is Unlikely in the lines of the trajectory that it was fired from Russia but we'll see."
Asked whether Poland is talking about invoking article 4 or 5, Biden said there would be an ambassadors meeting.
More TK but please check against audio



November 16, 202210:18 WITA

Travel pool report #11 - rolling for mangrove event
Updated quote: "There is plenty of information to contest that. I don't want to say until we completely investigate. It's unlikely in the minds of trajectory that it was fired from Russia. But we'll see."
Pool has asked for clarity on Biden's remarks.
We're not rolling for the mangrove planting event at 10:16am.



November 16, 202210:35 WITA

Travel pool report #12 - Arrival at Hutan Mangrove Forest
The motorcade arrived at the Hutan Mangrove Forrest 10:32 am after an uneventful ride along the mostly empty streets of Nusa Dua, dotted with security and some curious onlookers on the far side of the road.
Outside the Forrest the ride got a bit livelier as students waving Indonesian flags and a band playing music greeted us on arrival.
Pool was grateful for the brief respite from the heat in the air conditioned van.
Traveling with the President via motorcade en route Hutan Mangrove Forest:
Jen O'Malley Dillon, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of StaffAnnie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office OperationsKate Bedingfield, Assistant to the President & Director of CommunicationsKarine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press SecretaryAmbassador Rufus Gifford, Chief of Protocol for the United StatesCurtis Ried, Deputy Assistant to the President & NSC Chief of Staff and Executive SecretaryTravis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip DirectorAshley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office Operations
Greeting the President upon arrival at Hutan Mangrove Forest:
President Joko Widodo of the Republic of Indonesia



November 16, 202211:32 WITA

Travel pool report #13 - Mangrove Forrest Attendees
Thanks to co-pooler Katie Rogers for the colorful report from inside. Pool is being held in vans in a parking lot near the entrance. We've been here for about an hour (still waiting) and we're behind on today's schedule.
The President is participating in a mangrove tree planting with G20 Leaders.
Participants include:
President Alberto Fernandez of the Argentine RepublicPrime Minister Anthony Albanese of the Commonwealth of AustraliaCarlos Alberta França, Foreign Minister, Federative Republic of BrazilPresident Xi Jinping of the People's Republic of ChinaPresident Emmanuel Macron of the French RepublicChancellor Olaf Scholz of the Federal Republic of GermanyPrime Minister Narendra Modi of the Republic of IndiaPresident Joko Widodo of the Republic of IndonesiaPrime Minister Kishida Fumio of JapanMarcelo Ebrard, Secretary of Foreign Affairs, United Mexican StatesPresident Yoon Suk-yeol of the Republic of South KoreaSergey Lavrov, Minister of Foreign Affairs, Russian FederationCrown Prince Mohammed bin Salman Al Saud of the Kingdom of Saudi ArabiaPresident Cyril Ramaphosa of the Republic of South AfricaPresident Recep Tayyip Erdo?an of the Republic of TurkeyPrime Minister Rishi Sunak of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern IrelandPresident Ursula von der Leyen of the European CommissionPresident Charles Michel of the European Council



November 16, 202211:37 WITA

Travel pool report #14 - Rolling for the RON
We're now rolling at 11:35 am local time to return to the RON, where POTUS is due to meet again with British PM Rishi Sunak (Sunak attended the earlier roundtable and sat next to POTUS).



November 16, 202211:56 WITA

Travel pool report #15 - RON arrival
The children brandishing Indonesian flags to the sounds of drums were still at the entrance when the motorcade left the event. Pool was told they had been standing in the sun since about 6am local time.
The ride was again a quiet one. Pool spotted a few onlookers standing along the street before we crossed a long toll road over the water. It briefly started raining during the ride.
Motorcade arrived back at the RON at 11:51am local time. Pool broke off from POTUS so we did not see him upon arrival.



November 16, 202212:43 WITA

Travel pool report #16 - Sunak spray
Pool was brought to a restaurant on the hotel property where Biden, America's oldest president, was seated next to PM Sunak, Britain's youngest prime minister in 200 years.
POTUS started speaking At 12:36 pm
Calls UK "Closest ally and closest friend"
"We're going to continue to support Ukraine as long as Russia continues their aggression."
"It's way over the top what they're doing," he says of Russia.
Putin is striking to civilian targets
Calls it "barbaric"
"I'm glad we're on the same page in terms of supporting Ukraine"
Sunak says partnership between US and UK is "unique" and "enduring" and he's proud to have stewardship of it -
Glad to see that partnership in action doing good
Says he agrees with Biden's characterization of Russian strikes as barbaric
Please check against the audio.
Pool was ushered out at 12:38pm



November 16, 202213:33 WITA

Travel pool report #17 - US / UK delegations
POTUS and Sunak were seated in the back area of the restaurant, shaded by a thatched roof and overlooking a pond. The two leaders' respective delegations were seated on either side of them in a circle around a table.
POTUS did not respond to shouted questions on whether Russia fired the rocket or if they have been in contact with the Kremlin.
From the WH:
The President is participating in a bilateral meeting with Prime Minister Rishi Sunak of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. In attendance:
U.S. ManifestThe PresidentT.H. Antony Blinken, Secretary of StateT.H. Janet Yellen, Secretary of the TreasuryT.H. Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security AffairsT.H. Mike Pyle, Deputy Assistant to the President and Deputy National Security Advisor for International Economic AffairsMr. Amos Hochstein, Special Presidential Coordinator
U.K. ManifestT.R.H. Rishi Sunak, Prime Minister of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern IrelandSir Tim Barrow, National Security AdviserMr. John Bew, Foreign Affairs AdviserMs. Fiona Mcilwham, Private Secretary to the Prime MinisterMs. Nissy Chesterfield, Press SecretaryMr. Jonathan Black, Sherpa and Director General Cabinet Office
Fuller quotes from Sunak:
"I think the partnership between our countries is unique and enduring and of course it's bigger than any two individuals. I'm proud to have stewardship of it."
"I'm glad to see that partnership in action doing good, whether it's standing up to — and I agree with your word — barbaric activities by Russia in Ukraine, but also tackling climate change stabilizing the global economy."



November 16, 202213:55 WITA

Travel pool report #18 - rolling for airport
We're running nearly an hour behind but we're now rolling for Ngurah Rai International Airport at 1:52pm local time.
The hot sun has been replaced with a downpour of rain.



November 16, 202219:03 WITA

Travel pool report #19 - airport arrival
The motorcade arrived at the airport at 2:14pm.
POTUS stepped out of the Beast and shook hands and spoke with several greeters before climbing aboard AF1 at 2:16pm local time. He did not stop to talk to press. The rain has subsided.
We're wheels up shortly for Guam.
Traveling with the President aboard Air Force One en route Anderson Air Force Base in Guam:
Jen O'Malley Dillon, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of StaffJake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security AffairsMike Donilon, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the PresidentAnnie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office OperationsKate Bedingfield, Assistant to the President & Director of CommunicationsKarine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press SecretaryAmbassador Rufus Gifford, Chief of Protocol for the United StatesKurt Campbell, Deputy Assistant to the President & Coordinator for the Indo-PacificRyan Montoya, Deputy Assistant to the President & Director of Scheduling & AdvanceCurtis Ried, Deputy Assistant to the President & NSC Chief of Staff & Executive SecretaryAshley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office OperationsAraz Pourmorad, Special Assistant to the President & Director of Presidential SchedulingCarlyn Reichel, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for Speechwriting & Strategic InitiativesLaura Rosenberger, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for ChinaAdrienne Watson, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for Press & NSC SpokespersonAmos Hochstein, Special Presidential CoordinatorCharlie Fromstein, NSC Director of Visits & Diplomatic AffairsJohn Kirby, NSC Coordinator for Strategic Communications



November 16, 202221:45 ChST

Travel pool report #20 - wheels down in Guam
AF1 was wheels down at Andersen Air Force Base at 9:01 pm local time.
POTUS alighted from AF1 at 9:15pm local time, and lightly jogged over to his greeters.
Dozens of military personnel and some of their family members stood behind a barricade and looked on about 50 yds away. After a few minutes, POTUS quickly walked over to the pen and spoke to a little girl standing with people who appeared to be her brother and father.
POTUS then began posing for selfies and continued down the rope line. At one point, he held up his bicep as he posed for a photo. Pool was too far away to hear what he said to the little girl.
After about 15 minutes of working the rope line, POTUS took a group photo. The group cheered as he walked back over to Gov. Lou Leon Guerrero and other greeters (listed below). He then climbed back on AF1 at 9:38pm, turned around and gave two thumbs up before boarding.
We are wheels up for Honolulu shortly.
Greeting the President upon arrival at Anderson Air Force Base in Guam:
Governor Lou Leon Guerrero, GuamFirst Gentleman Jeff CookGuam Brigadier General Paul Birch, Commander, 36th Wing, Andersen Air Force BaseColonel Larry Fenner Jr., Vice Commander, 36?? Wing, Andersen Air Force BaseChief Master Sergeant Jose P Ramon Jr., Maintenance Group Senior Enlisted Leader, 36th Wing, Andersen Air Force Base
Military personnel in a viewing pen



November 16, 202210:06 HST

Travel pool report #21 - wheels down Hickam Field
AF1 was wheels down at the Hickam Field on Joint Base Pearl Harbor-Hickam in Hawaii at 8:50am local time for our second stop to refuel. We are back on schedule. It's sunny and 79 degrees.
(Your pooler regrets putting Honolulu in the last note but that was the noted location on our schedule).
POTUS deplaned at 9:15am local time and walked over to his greeters. The group chatted for a minute before walking over to military personnel and family members who were penned off next to the terminal. No selfies this time, just handshakes. He complimented one man on his pecs.
He then spoke to Gov. Ige and other greeters for several minutes. POTUS and the group boarded AF1 at 9:45am for a tour of the plane. The group emerged from AF1 at 9:55 am local time.
We are wheels up shortly for the last leg of our long flight back to JBA.
Greeting the President upon arrival at Hickam Air Force Base:
Governor David Ige, HawaiiFirst Lady Dawn Ige, HawaiiAdmiral John C. Aquilino, Commander, INDOPACOM
30 military personnel in a viewing pen



November 17, 202200:25 EST

Travel pool report #22 - wheels down JBA
AF1 was wheels down at 11:59pm ET after an uneventful flight from Hawaii.
No visitors to the back of the plane throughout the trip.
POTUS emerged from AF1 at 12:09. He was wearing a leather bomber jacket. He saluted his greeter and M1 lifted at 12:17am.
A big thanks to co-pooler Jonathan Lemire and other poolers for the support throughout a very long and eventful day.
Handing off to in-town pool.
Good night!



November 17, 202200:42 EST

Travel pool report #23 - staff traveling with POTUS
One last note:
Traveling with the President aboard Marine One en route the White House:
Jen O'Malley Dillon, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of StaffJake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security AffairsMike Donilon, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the PresidentAnnie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations




 
Pool Reports below by Katie Rogers, The New York Times 



Sent:
Reports:




November 16, 202208:35 WITA

Supplemental pool report: Widodo on Poland/Ukraine/Russia
President Joko Widodo, whose country is hosting the G20, arrived here at 8 a.m. and was admiring the mangroves, so your pooler approached him to ask about the situation in Poland.
Widodo said he had not spoken to other leaders this morning.
Followed up by asking him about his earlier remarks about preventing an escalation toward "war" without specifically mentioning the situation in Ukraine, and whether he had been briefed on Russian missiles landing in Ukraine.
"The G20 is an economic forum, a financial forum, and diplomat forum, not a political forum. So here we talk about the economy."



November 16, 202210:42 WITA

Supplemental: POTUS arrival at mangrove event
Four hours after the pool arrived for this event; after it was delayed by leaders holding emergency discussions about explosions in Poland; and after President Wododo of Indonesia, intent on focusing on climate initiatives rather than Russia's actions, gave the press a private tour of the mangroves, President Biden arrived for the outdoors event at 10:31 am.
Print pooler was stationed further away from than photogs and did not see him emerge from The Beast. Wododo quickly approached POTUS and the two spoke briefly in front of cameras before heading to an outdoor pagoda at 10:34 am.
Some color: It's sunny and humid with a heat index of 100 degrees. Most of the leaders dressed very casually - in jeans or khakis and white polos but POTUS wore a suit jacket and no tie. A band was playing instrumental versions of Bon Jovi and Red Hot Chili Peppers hits, along with "It's a Wonderful World."
Photographers were briefly let into the pagoda but print pooler was kept outside.
The leaders are now meeting in the pagoda before an expected mangrove planting.



November 16, 202211:24 WITA

Supplemental: POTUS shrugs off Trump
Pooler asked POTUS and Macron of France if they had a reaction to Trump announcing a run in 2024. They looked at each other briefly and shared the faintest of smirks.
"Not really," POTUS said, before turning his attention back to the mangroves.
Macron stayed silent and did not respond to a question about his reaction on Trump.
Before this, Biden did not respond to questions from another journalist not in US pool about NATO.
Tour ongoing.



November 16, 202211:47 WITA

Supplemental pool report: The last thing I'll say about mangroves
POTUS joined other leaders in mangrove planting at 10:56 am. The leaders, all in light colored shirts, gathered to plants groves in what an announcer said was a symbolic commitment to countering a warming climate.
Putu Ayu, Miss Indonesia 2020, provided live narration of the tour. She said she was so nervous to narrate for world leaders that she had drawn a smiley face on her cue cards, but really, she nailed it.
Each leader was led to a baby mangrove for the planting. Biden chatted with Ursula von der Leyen as he approached his baby mangrove. The leaders then followed detailed instructions about feed bags and planting holes for the baby mangroves.
Print was then separated from rest of pool who were closest so I did not see how POTUS handled his baby mangrove.
Then Wododo hosted tour of the mangroves - which we have already been on, not to brag- beginning at 11 am. The leaders heard about different species of mangroves and how long they can live (up to 100 years).
Biden walked next to PM Modi of India as they listened to Wododo's presentation. Wododo was telling them that the forest has 150 types of mangrove species. Later, POTUS chatted with President Emmanuel Macron of France, whom he stayed close to for the rest of their tour.
"My granddaughter is getting married in four days," he said to an official who approached him to talk about his family.
"Is this part of a larger body? Is it man made?" he asked a group of officials.
"I don't know," one of them replied. Macron and others then became very concerned about the answer to the question. Eventually someone found an Indonesian official who told the group that the water they were looking at was meant to feed the mangroves.
POTUS joked with some journalists before they began asking questions: "You've got some real nice biceps," he told a cameraman at one point.
Pooler then asked POTUS and Macron if they had a reaction to Trump announcing a run. They looked at it other briefly and shared the faintest of smirks. Let's call it a faint smile.
"Not really," POTUS said, before turning his attention back to the mangroves. Macron stayed silent and did not respond to a question about his reaction on Trump.
Biden did not respond to questions from another journalist not in US pool about NATO.
The leaders walked through a greenhouse and held a round of applause for mangrove planters before ending their tour. The Beast departed at 11:33 am for the UK bilateral. It is now starting to thunder but unfortunately hasn't yet rained.




 
Pool Reports below by Nadia Bilbassy, Alarabiya 



Sent:
Reports:




November 16, 202213:02 WITA

Foreign pool #1 POTUS and UK PM Rishi Sunak
Higghlights of Prime Minister Sunak very short speech .
The politics between the two counties is aunique and bigger than any two individuals .
We are the oldest alley and biggest trading partner plus security partner.
Glad to see this partnership in action whether standing up to the barbaric action by Russia in Ukraine or tackling climate change .
Our interests are allined and our values are allined .
Looking forward to our meeting . Few senntces were hard to hear



November 16, 202213:16 WITA

Foreign pool #2 PM Sunak
After waiting for so long in sweltering heat in a holding area , pool was led around 12:34 though a resutrant / garden seated area with fishponds surrounding it in a tropical scene familiar in this part of the world .
The Prime Minister sat in the middle next to POTUS while each delegation sat on either side of the two leaders respectively . Journalists were held behind a red cordon.
MR Sunak waited for POTUS to finish welcoming him and talking about the US /UK relations before stating his speech . I barely can hear POTUS speech . His voice was fainted .
We were there for around 3 minutes or less , reporters shouted questions but neither leaders answered , we were told to leave immediately. I will send names of the UK delegation shortly



November 16, 202213:51 WITA

Foreign pool #3 PM Sunak
UK delegation :
T.R.H. Rishi Sunak, Prime Minister of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern IrelandSir Tim Barrow, National Security AdviserMr. John Bew, Foreign Affairs AdviserMs. Fiona Mcilwham, Private Secretary to the Prime MinisterMs. Nissy Chesterfield, Press SecretaryMr. Jonathan Black, Sherpa and Director General Cabinet Office




 
Pool Reports below by Steven Nelson, New York Post 



Sent:
Reports:




November 17, 202200:38 EST

In Town Pool Report 1/Biden Quote
Marine One landed on the South Lawn at 12:27.
President Biden answered one question about Ukrainian President Zelensky saying that the missile that landed in Poland was not Ukrainian.
"That's not the evidence," Biden said.
Biden heard but chose not to answer a question about whether it's true that he didn't mention fentanyl or COVID-19 origins to Chinese President Xi when they met this week.
President Biden walked into the White House residence at 12:30.



November 17, 202200:41 EST

In Town Pool Report 2/Lid
We have a travel/photo lid.




  