
    NOMINATIONS SENT TO THE SENATE:
Leon Aron, of Virginia, to be a Member of the Broadcasting Board of Governors for a term expiring August 13, 2016, vice S. Enders Wimbush, resigned.
Walter A. Barrows, of Ohio, to be a Member of the Railroad Retirement Board for a term expiring August 28, 2019. (Reappointment)
David J. Berteau, of Maryland, to be an Assistant Secretary of Defense, vice Alan F. Estevez, resigned.
Leigh A. Bradley, of Virginia, to be General Counsel, Department of Veterans Affairs, vice Will A. Gunn, resigned.
Romonia S. Dixon, of Arizona, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for National and Community Service for a term expiring October 6, 2018, vice Matthew Francis McCabe, term expired.
Sim Farar, of California, to be a Member of the United States Advisory Commission on Public Diplomacy for a term expiring July 1, 2015. (Reappointment)
Sim Farar, of California, to be a Member of the United States Advisory Commission on Public Diplomacy for a term expiring July 1, 2018. (Reappointment)
Jeffery S. Hall, of Kentucky, to be a Member of the Farm Credit Administration Board, Farm Credit Administration, for a term expiring October 13, 2018, vice Leland A. Strom, term expired.
William Joseph Hybl, of Colorado, to be a Member of the United States Advisory Commission on Public Diplomacy for a term expiring July 1, 2015. (Reappointment)
Michelle K. Lee, of California, to be Under Secretary of Commerce for Intellectual Property and Director of the United States Patent and Trademark Office, vice David J. Kappos, resigned.
Jay Neal Lerner, of Illinois, to be Inspector General, Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, vice Jon T. Rymer, resigned.
Dava J. Newman, of Massachusetts, to be Deputy Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, vice Lori Garver, resigned.
Michael P. O'Rielly, of New York, to be a Member of the Federal Communications Commission for a term of five years from July 1, 2014. (Reappointment)
Azita Raji, of California, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Kingdom of Sweden.
Robert A. Salerno, of the District of Columbia, to be an Associate Judge of the Superior Court of the District of Columbia for the term of fifteen years, vice Robert Isaac Richter, retired.
Mark Scarano, of New Hampshire, to be Federal Cochairperson of the Northern Border Regional Commission, vice Sandford Blitz, resigning.
David S. Shapira, of Pennsylvania, to be a Governor of the United States Postal Service for a term expiring December 8, 2019, vice Dennis J. Toner, term expired.
WITHDRAWALS SENT TO THE SENATE:
Michael G. Carroll, of New York, to be Inspector General, United States Agency for International Development, vice Donald A. Gambatesa, resigned, which was sent to the Senate on January 6, 2014.
Jo Ann Rooney, of Massachusetts, to be Under Secretary of the Navy, vice Robert O. Work, resigned, which was sent to the Senate on January 6, 2014.
  