
    
  Thompson: 'Our Rights Come From God, Not From Government'

McLean, VA -- Touting his 100 percent pro-life voting record and reminding voters that "our rights come from God and not from government," Senator Fred Thompson launched a pair of television ads set to begin airing on Wednesday statewide in Iowa and nationally on Fox News. The 30- and 60-second spots are set in a diner, featuring the Senator sitting at a counter discussing his consistent conservative values.
"In eight years in the United States Senate, I fought for tax cuts, and for conservative judges," says Senator Thompson in the spot. "And if we stick to our basic conservative principles, we will win next November and the United States of America will be better for it."
The spots, both named "Consistent Conservative," can be viewed at http://www.fred08.com.
In recent weeks, Sen. Thompson has aggressively campaigned in the early states, and will spend multiple days in New Hampshire, South Carolina and Iowa in the first half of this month. He has also recently campaigned in the early-voting state of Nevada.
Below are the transcripts of both advertisements.
Consistent Conservative (60 seconds)
I'm Fred Thompson and I approve this message.
I've been a conservative my whole life.
I grew up in a little hometown just like this.
Started the first Young Republican Club in Lawerenceburg, Tennessee.
In eight years in the United States Senate, I fought for tax cuts, and for conservative judges.
And I'm proud to have had a 100 percent pro-life voting record.
Common sense conservative principles. Free people. Free markets and a government that doesn't tax and regulate us to death, but defends us and protects our borders.
In a country where, if you play by the rules, you've got a fair chance to live the American dream.
My friends, we must remember that our rights come from God and not from government.
And if we stick to our basic conservative principles, we will win next November and the United States of America will be better for it.
Consistent Conservative (30 seconds)
I've been a conservative my whole life.
I grew up in a little hometown just like this.
I learned a long time ago that we're a country where, if you play by the rules, you've got a fair chance to live the American dream.
Common sense conservative principles. If we stick to those basic principles, we'll win next November and the United States of America will be better for it.
I'm Fred Thompson and I approve this message.
  