
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Romney Press Shop (857) 288-6390
Boston, MA – Today, Governor Mitt Romney announced the Romney for President Colorado Statewide Legislative Leadership Team. State Senators Andy McElhany, Shawn Mitchell and Nancy Spence, along with State Representatives Victor Mitchell and Kenneth Summers will help Governor Romney's campaign organize at the grassroots level, and will help communicate Governor Romney's message of conservative change in Washington.
Announcing the Colorado Legislative Leadership Team, Governor Mitt Romney said, "I am grateful to have the endorsement of these exceptional Colorado leaders. We have built a strong team throughout the state and these state leaders make our team even stronger. We are committed to competing in the Colorado primary process."
State Senator Andy McElhany said, "We are proud to join Governor Romney's Colorado campaign. There is no question that he is the only candidate in this race who has the experience, vision for the future, and traditional American values to bring us back to conservative common sense principles. We look forward to helping Governor Romney towards victory in February."
These five legislators join former Governor Bill Owens, State Attorney General John Suthers, Senator Wayne Allard, and former Congressman Bob Beauprez in supporting Governor Romney's bid for the presidency.
Background On The Romney For President Colorado Legislative Leadership Team:
Senator Andy McElhany Is The Colorado State Senate Minority Leader. McElhany was first elected to the Colorado Senate in 2000, having served in the Colorado State House from 1994 to 2000. Prior to his election he served as Chairman of the Colorado Springs Park and Recreation Advisory Board. McElhany is a retired real estate broker and owner of The McElhany Company.
Senator Shawn Mitchell Was Elected To The Colorado State Senate In 2004. He served three terms in the Colorado House of Representatives after winning a traditionally Democratic seat. Mitchell is an attorney in private practice in Denver and Adams County. Prior to running for elected office, Shawn served as Special Counsel to the Attorney General and one of the top aides and legal policy advisors to former Colorado Attorney General Gale Norton.
State Representative Victor Mitchell Was Elected As A Representative Of District 45 In November Of 2006. Since the age of 21, Victor has been self-employed, launching one successful business venture after another. A nationally renowned businessman, Mitchell has been the CEO and Chairman of five successful businesses. Mitchell has received many recognitions for his work in the private sector including Denver Business Journal's "top 40 under 40" for business executives of Colorado and the Denver Chamber of Commerce "Colorado Small Business of the Year" award.
State Senator Nancy Spence Was Elected To Serve District 27 In The Colorado Senate In 2004. Prior to her election, she represented District 39 in the Colorado State House for three terms where she served as Chair of the Education Committee. Spence also serves on the Craig Hospital Board of Directors. She spent 13 years on the Cherry Creek Schools Board of Education and five years as its president. Spence also served as President of the Cherry Creek Republican Women's Organization from 1992 through 1993.
State Representative Kenneth Summers Represents The 22nd House District. Summers founded Jericho Road Mentoring, to recruit mentors to serve children of prisoners. After teaching and coaching for two years, he entered full-time ministry at Lakewood First Assembly of God. Summers returned to Lakewood in 1992 and served as the Senior Pastor of Dakota Ridge Assembly for fourteen years, before entering the state house. He also served on his local school board and volunteered his time as a chaplain for a local National Guard Unit during Desert Storm.
  