
    The President. -- -- After all, this is our country, and that seat of yours in the United States Congress belongs to the people of the Eastern Shore -- the farmers, the fishermen, the teachers, and everyone else in that wonderful part of the State. And if something is wrong, you can do something about it. And you can elect one of your own to the Congress as someone who shares our values, our family values. And that all boils down, as far as I'm concerned, to this phrase: Elect Wayne Gilchrest!
You know, in dealing with the Congress completely controlled -- both Houses completely controlled by the liberal Democrats, I've concluded that it isn't easy. I was elected to do certain things, and we get blocked because we have too few Wayne Gilchrests in the United States Congress.
Let me give you an example: I proposed tough, new Federal laws of anticrime legislation. And I really believed that it was time that we had a little less sympathy for the criminals and a little more for the victims of crime. But incredibly, we sent up a strong anticrime package, and it got totally bogged down by the liberal Democrats trying to kill the legislation and change it right there in the dead of night. And that's a very good reason to send Wayne Gilchrest up there, because we need more Congressmen that will support strong anticrime legislation.
And then I've had to veto after veto pieces of legislation in the Congress because the Democratic Party -- not the one you used to think of in the Eastern Shore way, back when once in a while you could get what they called a conservative Democrat -- but the national Democratic Party that controls this Congress simply is on a continuous tax-and-spend binge. And I really believe more people like Wayne could make a big difference -- I know they'd make a difference.
And so, again, I urge you to put someone who is in touch, who's in tune with the people of Salisbury and the people of the Eastern Shore there. And so, this district -- I've talked to all our political experts -- this district is one of the critical districts in the country for change, the kind of change that I want to see, the kind of change that I know you want to see. So, don't let them tell you no one can make a difference. In this very district, you can make the difference, make the change that will help our country. You've got a good man there in Wayne. So, go out and work hard for him.
And God bless you all.
Mr. Gilchrest. Thank you, Mr. President, and we will. And we're looking forward to victory on Tuesday. We know that the people of Maryland are going to vote for their community, and more importantly, they're going to vote for their children.
And we know that you're busy, and we greatly appreciate this time that you have given to us. We all do.
The President. Well, not at all. And Barbara's sitting right here. We're off to go to get-out-the-vote phone bank here in Houston, Texas. And before we go, we want to send you our love and our affection. And, yes, we share your interest in these family values, and we want the best. And by golly, that's why I'm on the phone urging everybody there to vote for Wayne Gilchrest.
Over and out. And good luck to you.
  