
    WHEREAS on May 26, 1941, the Senate of the United States gave its advice and consent to the ratification of the Convention for the creation of an Inter- American Indian Institute, which was opened for signature at Mexico City on November 1, 1940, and signed on behalf of the United States on November 29, 1940; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to the foregoing, the said Convention was ratified by me on June 6, 1941; and
WHEREAS Article X of the Convention, providing for the creation of National Indian Institutes, is as follows:
1. The nations subscribing to this Convention shall, on such date as they may deem advisable, and within their respective jurisdictions, organize National Indian Institutes. The functions of said Institutes shall, by and large, consist in stimulating interest in and furnishing information about Indian matters to any persons and to public and private institutions. Such National Institutes shall further carry out any studies on these questions that may be of particular interest to the nation concerned.
2. National Indian Institutes shall be affiliated to the Inter-American Indian Institute, to which they shall submit an annual report.
3. The financing, organization and regulations of said National Indian Institutes shall be matters falling exclusively within the purview of the respective Governments.;
AND WHEREAS the the Department of the Interior is charged by law with the supervision and management of all Indian affairs:
NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me as President of the United States, and in effectuation of Article X of the said Convention, it is ordered as follows:
SECTION 1. There is hereby established in the Department of the Interior a National Indian Institute for the United States of America, which Institute shall be affiliated with the Inter-American Indian Institute.
SECTION 2. The National Indian Institute shall:
(a) Initiate and promote collaboration in the fields of Indian administration and the study of the Indian among Federal, State and private agencies, learned societies, and scholars in the United States, and the Inter- American Indian Institute, and through the Institute with governmental agencies, learned societies and scholars in the other American countries.
(b) Collaborate with the Inter-American Indian Institute, learned societies, and foundations in the coordination, development, and administration of research projects and studies relating to the Indian.
(c) Maintain liaison between agencies of the United States Government directly or indirectly concerned with Indian administration or Indian studies in this or other countries for the purpose of coordinating cooperation by the United States with other American nations in regard to Indian matters.
(d) Direct the preparation and publication of materials dealing with Indian administration in the United States of interest to the other American nations, and to publish such other materials as may be required in connection with authorized activities.
(e) Assemble and prepare library material and bibliographies dealing with Indian Problems.
(f) Collaborate with the Inter-American Indian Institute in planning for the Inter-American Conference on Indian Life.
(g) Submit an annual report to the Inter-American Indian Institute.
SECTION 3. The Institute shall be managed by a Director who, with other necessary employees, shall be appointed by the Secretary of the Interior, and its functions shall be administered in the Bureau of Indian Affairs. The Institute shall use insofar as practicable such informational, fiscal, personnel, and other general business services and facilities as may be made available through the Interior Department or other agencies of the Government.
SECTION 4. There is hereby established a Policy Board of the Institute which shall recommend policies to be followed by the Institute, and which shall be composed of:
(a) The Commissioner of Indian Affairs.
(b) Two or more members, who may be public officers or private citizens, to be appointed by the Secretary of the Interior, at least one of whom shall be an Indian.
(c) One representative designated by the Secretary of State.
(d) One representative designated by the Secretary of Agriculture.
(e) One representative designated by the Smithsonian Institution.
(f) One representative designated by the Librarian of Congress.
In addition to the foregoing, one representative may be designated as a member of the Board by each of the following organizations:
The National Research Council.
The Social Science Research Council.
The American Council of Learned Societies.
SECTION 5. The Chairman of the Board, who shall be designated by the Secretary of the Interior, shall call meetings of the Board, and, subject to the approval of the Board, may establish advisory committees and may designated, as affiliates of the Institute, learned societies and other organizations concerned with the study of the Indian and with Indian welfare.
SECTION 6. The members of the Board and the advisory committees may be reimbursed for necessary traveling expenses and subsistence, as provided by law.
FRANKLIN D. ROOSEVELT
THE WHITE HOUSE,
November 1, 1941.
  