
    The Rudy Giuliani Presidential Committee today unveiled the National Leadership Team for Viva Rudy, the campaign's Hispanic coalition. Serving as the National Chairman is Raul Romero. Joining Romero as National Co-Chairs will be U.S. Representative Luis Fortuño, Hector Barreto and Raul Danny Vargas.
Romero has long been involved in Republican politics, serving as a key supporter and advisor to President George W. Bush during his 2000 and 2004 presidential campaigns. Fortuño currently represents Puerto Rico in the U.S. House of Representatives, where he serves as Chairman of the Congressional Hispanic Conference. Barreto served as administrator of the U.S. Small Business Administration under President Bush, and Vargas is currently the Chairman of the Republican National Hispanic Assembly.
"Mayor Giuliani has consistently demonstrated a commitment to the issues important to Hispanic families, like lowering taxes and standing up for small businesses," said Romero. "I look forward to helping grow support for him in communities across our country."
Barreto, who also serves as Chair of California Viva Rudy, added: "Rudy has an impressive record as Mayor. He helped revitalize New York City's economy, while greatly improving citizens' quality of life. He has the best vision for our country, and I am proud to support him."
"Rudy is the real fiscal conservative in the race," added Vargas. "He is widely respected in the Hispanic community because he understands that we must pass on a stronger America to future generations. He will serve our nation well as President."
Fortuño, the first Republican elected to Congress from Puerto Rico, was previously announced as Chairman of the Mayor's Puerto Rico campaign.
About Raul Romero:
Romero is the President and CEO of Alliance Consulting Group. He has served as a key supporter and advisor to President George W. Bush. In 2000, he was a Finance Co-Chair for Bush's campaign and an Executive Committee Member of Victory 2000, assisting in national Hispanic outreach. During Bush's 2004 reelection, Romero chaired the Hispanic Task Force.
He was cited in 1995 and 1999 by Hispanic Business magazine as one of America's 100 Most Influential Hispanics and Hispanic magazine named him one of the 25 most powerful Hispanics in the United States.
Prior to his current position, Romero headed one of the nation's largest privately-owned engineering and construction firms. Romero holds bachelor's and master's degrees from the University of Notre Dame. He serves on the board of directors for the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, is Chairman of the Board of the Hispanic Scholarship Fund and is a member of the Institute for Latino Studies at the University of Notre Dame.
About Representative Luis Fortuño:
Representative Fortuño was elected in 2004 to his first term as Puerto Rico's sole Representative in the U.S. Congress. He was unanimously elected as Chairman of the Congressional Hispanic Conference, which serves to promote a conservative agenda nationwide among the Hispanic community. Fortuño was recently appointed to the House Republican Policy Committee and is a member of the National Republican Congressional Committee's (NRCC) Executive Committee.
Fortuño entered public service in 1993 when he was appointed Executive Director of the Puerto Rico Tourism Company and President of the Hotel Development Corporation. He also served as Puerto Rico's first Secretary of the Department of Economic Development and Commerce, where he was tasked with the development and implementation of large-scale reforms of Puerto Rico's tax, labor, corporate and commercial codes, which were aimed at facilitating business growth and job creation, reducing bureaucracy, and lowering taxes.
About Hector Barreto:
Barreto served as the administrator of the U.S. Small Business Administration under President George W. Bush, and has a lifetime of involvement with the small-business community.
Barreto, a former business owner, served as Vice Chairman of the Board for the U.S. Hispanic Chamber of Commerce. Barreto's experience in the world of entrepreneurship began at a young age when he started helping his parents by working at, and later co-managing, a family restaurant, an export/import business and a construction company in his hometown of Kansas City, Missouri.
In 2000, Barreto served as President Bush's California Co-Chair and Co-Chair of Bush's National Hispanic Steering Committee. Barreto served as a California Chair for Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger's successful 2006 reelection campaign.
Barreto serves as the Chairman of The Latino Coalition, a national organization that represents Latino interests with senior executives of many Fortune 500 companies and both federal and local government agencies. He previously served as Chairman of the Board for the Latin Business Association in Los Angeles. He also founded a small business institute that provided technical assistance, education and development opportunities to small businesses.
Barreto, recognized by Hispanic Business magazine as one of America's 100 Most Influential Hispanics, received his bachelor degree in business administration from Rockhurst University.
Barreto and his wife, Robin, have a son and two daughters.
About Raul Danny Vargas:
Vargas is the Founder and President of VARCom Solutions. He is the Chairman of the Republican National Hispanic Assembly.
Vargas was on the Hispanic advisory group of former Republican National Committee Chairman Ken Mehlman. He has been active in Republican politics in his home state of Virginia.
Vargas previously worked as an executive at AOL and currently serves as the Chairman of the Dulles Regional Chamber of Commerce.
Vargas served for seven years in the U.S. Air Force. He is the first person in his family to earn a college degree and gives back to his community by working with various non-profit groups.
  