
    Pool Report by Nikki Schwab, Daily Mail 



Sent:
Reports:




November 2, 202112:04 CEST

FLOTUS Pool Report - Naples to JBA from TV pooler 
Hi there – passing along notes from TV pooler John Parkinson of ABC News, who took Executive One Foxtrot back to JBA with FLOTUS, in case anyone wants to include these details (shopping!) in their stories:
E1F heading to Shannon, Ireland for a refueling stop - 75 minutes scheduled there - before we arrive at JBA at 10:10pm ET this evening.
At 3:03pm local, 10:03am ET, Executive One Foxtrot is wheels up for Shannon, Ireland.
--
E1F landed at 5:08pm local; 1:08pm ET.
There were no visitors during this leg of the trip. Passengers were treated to a plain hamburger, potato chips and two chocolate chip cookies.
I am anticipating a 75-minute layover here while the plane is refueled. Will send updated as warranted by any potential news.
--
The First Lady spent about 30 minutes shopping at a duty free store in the airport terminal, which appeared closed to other passengers. Your pooler observed Dr. Biden shopping only in the makeup area, although I've got no idea what purchases she made. There is no footage of her here.
Other passengers focused on the duty-free alcohol, although with a limited, mundane wine selection, your pooler only bought a stuffed animal (Koala) and book ("Where Are You, Puffling?") for his 2-year-old son.
After completing her shopping, Dr. Biden walked away from view - presumably to a private lounge while we waited for personnel to complete refueling of her plane.
At 6:29pm local, 2:29pm ET, Executive One Foxtrot pushed back from the terminal, and the plane is speeding for takeoff at 6:40pm.
We are due to arrive at JBA at 10:10pm ET.
--
Executive One Foxtrot landed at 9:38pm ET after an uneventful flight - about 30 minutes earlier than planned.
No visits from FLOTUS during the flight.
--
The First Lady deplaned at 9:49pm and the motorcade is rolling for the White House at 9:52pm.
--
The motorcade arrived back at the White House without incident at 10:11 PM ET. Pooler spotted the First Lady walking into the Diplomatic Reception Room but did not get a shot.
Thanks everyone, it was a pleasure to serve as the first lady's pooler on this trip!




  