
    DES MOINES, Iowa – Texas Gov. Rick Perry today participated in the Presidential Thanksgiving Family Forum, hosted by the Family Leader, where he reiterated his principled and longstanding commitment to conservative values.
"I am a faithful, fiscal and social conservative of conviction, not of convenience," said Gov. Perry. "As Governor of the State of Texas, I have signed more pro-life legislation than any governor in my state's history and championed and signed the Texas Defense of Marriage Act. Traditional family values are important to me, to the people of Iowa and to citizens and future of our nation. America needs to reenergize limited government, entrepreneurship and the traditional values that helped us become the greatest, most prosperous nation in history."
Gov. Perry is a staunch defender of life, having signed more pro-life legislation than any other governor in Texas history. He most recently demonstrated his commitment to protecting the lives of the unborn in his Uproot and Overhaul Washington plan, in which he pledged to eliminate the federal funding of organizations that fund abortions, such as Planned Parenthood. He supported this same measure in Texas' most recent legislative session by signing important legislation, Senate Bill 7 and House Bill 1, which contain provisions prohibiting tax dollars from funding abortions.
Gov. Perry strongly supports traditional marriage. He signed the Defense of Marriage Act in Texas in 2003, and supported enshrining this law in the Texas Constitution, a measure approved by voters in 2005, which defines marriage in Texas as a union between one man and one woman. He has also pledged to support an amendment to the U.S. Constitution that legally defines marriage as a union between one man and one woman.
As a life-long hunter and concealed handgun license holder, Gov. Perry has been a strong advocate for Second Amendment rights. During his tenure in Texas, he has signed "Castle Doctrine" legislation ensuring that citizens have the right to defend themselves in their homes instead of retreating. He has also worked to prevent local governments from infringing upon Texans' rights to have legally concealed weapons on public property, cut concealed handgun license (CHL) renewal fees for military, veterans and senior citizens, and labored to protect shooting ranges from expensive, frivolous lawsuits as part of his tort reform efforts.
Last Tuesday, Gov. Perry announced his Uproot and Overhaul Washington plan, which would establish a part-time, citizen Congress, cut congressional salaries, end lifetime appointments of federal judges, issue an immediate moratorium on new and pending federal regulations, and dismantle wasteful, redundant federal agencies.
Gov. Perry has unveiled other bold and conservative policies in recent weeks, including his Cut, Balance and Grow plan and his Energizing American Jobs and Security plan. Cut, Balance and Grow cuts personal and corporate tax rates to a lower, flat 20 percent rate, cuts federal spending, ends earmarks and corporate loopholes and calls for a federal Balanced Budget Amendment. Energizing American Jobs and Security will create up to 1.2 million jobs in every sector, reduce our nation's dependence on hostile foreign oil, revitalize manufacturing and help contain the cost of electricity and fuel.
The Presidential Thanksgiving Family Forum, hosted by the Family Leader, included discussion among GOP presidential candidates about the conservative values Americans have long cherished. The forum was moderated by Dr. Frank Luntz, with faith leaders and socially conservative activists from counties across the state of Iowa in attendance. Citizen Link and the National Organization for Marriage served as keynote sponsors.
  