
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

Our eyesight is a great and precious gift. Most of us have been blessed with the ability to see the faces of loved ones, to view the natural wonders that surround us, and to read a good book or informative journal. Tragically, however, too many Americans are at risk of losing their eyesight to glaucoma.
Glaucoma is a serious disease that, if left undetected or untreated, can lead to blindness. In fact, glaucoma is a leading cause of vision loss among older men and women. Black Americans of all ages are also highly vulnerable to this disease, as are persons with diabetes or a family history of glaucoma.
Of the two million Americans known to suffer from glaucoma, some 80,000 are legally blind. It is estimated that several million Americans suffer from ocular hypertension, which is frequently a silent symptom of the disease.
Fortunately, glaucoma is treatable, and blindness from the disease is almost always preventable. However, because glaucoma is often asymptomatic in its early stages, millions of healthy people are unaware that they have the disease. That is why periodic, comprehensive eye exams are so important -- especially for those at higher risk of developing glaucoma and other eye ailments.
In recognition of the importance of promoting public awareness about glaucoma and of encouraging all Americans to obtain periodic eye examinations, the Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 194, has designated the week beginning November 12, 1989, as "National Glaucoma Awareness Week" and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this week.
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the week beginning November 12, 1989, as National Glaucoma Awareness Week. I call upon health care providers, private voluntary organizations, and the people of the United States to observe this week with appropriate programs, ceremonies, and activities designed to encourage all Americans to have their eyes examined regularly.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this seventh day of November, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-nine, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fourteenth.

GEORGE BUSH
  