
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate nine people and appoint two people to serve in his Administration:
The President intends to nominate Dan Gregory Blair of the District of Columbia, to be a Member of the Postal Rate Commission and upon confirmation designate Chairman. Mr. Blair currently serves as Deputy Director of the Office of Personnel Management. Prior to this, he served as Senior Counsel of the Senate Committee on Governmental Affairs. Earlier in his career, he served on the House of Representatives Committee on Government Reform and Oversight as Staff Director of the Subcommittee on the Postal Service. Mr. Blair received his bachelor's degree and JD from the University of Missouri.
The President intends to nominate Scott A. Keller of Florida, to be Assistant Secretary of Housing and Urban Development (Congressional and Intergovernmental Relations). Mr. Keller currently serves as Deputy Chief of Staff at the Department of Housing and Urban Development. Prior to this, he served as Director of Governmental Affairs at Greenberg Traurig Law Firm. Earlier in his career, he served as Legislative Director for the Chairman of the House Insurance Committee in the Florida House of Representatives. Mr. Keller received his bachelor's degree from Florida State University.
The President intends to nominate Paul A. Schneider, of Maryland, to be Under Secretary for Management at the Department of Homeland Security. Mr. Schneider currently serves as an independent Defense Aerospace Consultant. Prior to this, he served as an Acquisition Executive at the National Security Agency. Earlier in his career, he served as Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Navy. Mr. Schneider received his bachelor's degree from the University of Massachusetts at Lowell.
The President intends to nominate the following individuals to be Members of the National Council on the Arts, for a six year term expiring 09/03/12:
Benjamin Donenberg of California
Foreststorn Hamilton of New York
Joan Israelite of Missouri
Charlotte P. Kessler of Ohio
Robert Bretley Lott of Louisiana
William Francis Price, Jr. of California
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the President's Export Council:
Juan Carlos Iturregui of Maryland
Leonard Sands of California
  