
    The following listing includes the President's daily schedule and other items of general interest as announced by the White House Press Office during the period covered by this issue. Events and announcements printed elsewhere in the issue are not included.
October 28
The President met at the White House with Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs.
Following his return to the White House from the trip to New York, Connecticut, Massachusetts, and Maine, the President met with W. Michael Blumenthal, Secretary, and Anthony M. Solomon, Under Secretary for Monetary Affairs, Department of the Treasury, Federal Reserve Board Chairman G. William Miller, Charles L. Schultze, Chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers, and Alfred E. Kahn, Advisor to the President on Inflation, to discuss the forthcoming Treasury Department and Federal Reserve measures to strengthen the dollar in domestic and international markets.
The President left the White House for a stay at Camp David, Md.
October 30
The President returned to the White House from Camp David.
The President has declared an emergency for the State of California because of the impact of brushfires which occurred in the County of Los Angeles between October 23-25.
The President and Mrs. Carter hosted .a Halloween party at the White House for members of the White House staff and their guests.
October 31
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—James T. Mcintyre, Jr., Director of the Office of Management and Budget, Stuart E. Eizenstat, Assistant to the President for Domestic Affairs and Policy, and Mr. Schultze, to review the fiscal year 1980 Federal budget;
—Vice President Walter F. Mondale, Adm. Stansfield Turner, Director of Central Intelligence, Hamilton Jordan, Assistant to the President, and Dr. Brzezinski;
—His Imperial Highness Crown Prince Reza of Iran;
—Douglas M. Costle, Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency and Chairman of the Regulatory Council;
—Vice President Mondale, Under Secretary Solomon, Mr. Miller, Mr. Schultze, and Mr. Eizenstat, to discuss the measures to strengthen the dollar in domestic and international markets.
In a ceremony in the Oval Office at the White House, the President received the first books of the "Public Papers of the Presidents, Jimmy Carter, 1977" from Joel W. Solomon, Administrator of General Services, James B. Rhoads, Archivist of the United States, John J. Boyle, Public Printer, Fred J. Emery, Director, and Ernest J. Galdi, Deputy Director, Office of the Federal Register. Also participating in the ceremony were the following Federal Register staff members: Martha B. Girard, Robert E. Lewis, Richard L. Claypoole, Margaret M. Donohoe, Katherine A. Mellody, and Kenneth R. Payne.
November 1
The President met at the White House with:
—Vice President Mondale, Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance, Dr. Brzezinski, and Mr. Jordan;
—Mrs. Carter, for lunch.
November 2
The President met at the White House with Dr. Brzezinski.
The President left the White House for a 2-day trip to New York, Michigan, Illinois, Oregon, California, and Minnesota.
  