
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

Noting the American people's willingness to work together in order to assist a neighbor or improve their communities, the great French social philosopher, Alexis de Tocqueville, once asked, "What political power could ever carry on the vast multitude of lesser undertakings which the American citizens perform every day, with the assistance of the principle of association?" This spirit of voluntary association and service to others continues to be a proud portion of the American character. Today, nonprofit philanthropic organizations in the United States number in the hundreds of thousands. These organizations employ millions of people, many of them volunteers. The American people give generously to all of them -- not only through financial contributions but also through regular donations of their time, talents, and material resources.
Today, we recognize and salute the outstanding work done by members of our Nation's philanthropic organizations. Through their schools, churches, local museums, cultural centers, youth groups, hospitals, research institutions, and many other organizations, millions of concerned Americans are generously serving others. Whether bringing aid and comfort to the sick, the elderly, and the disadvantaged, or providing rewarding educational and recreational opportunities for everyone, these individuals are illustrating that there is no better exercise for the human heart than reaching out and lifting someone else up.
In recognition of all those who lead, staff, and support our Nation's charitable organizations, the Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 86, has designated November 17, 1989, as "National Philanthropy Day" and has requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this day.
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim November 17, 1989, as National Philanthropy Day. I call upon the people of the United States to observe this day with appropriate ceremonies and activities.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this fifteenth day of November, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-nine, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fourteenth.

GEORGE BUSH
  