
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

Health care in the home is as old as medical treatment itself. Today it presents Americans with important new opportunities. As an integrated part of our health care system, the home setting can offer the comfort of familiar surroundings and the flexibility of personalized treatment. It can preserve the dignity and independence of individuals and prevent or postpone institutionalization for millions of patients each year. In a significant number of cases, home care can even reduce the cost of medical treatment.
America's home health care system has been growing rapidly in recent years with more than 4,000 certified agencies now providing home care. As our elderly population grows, home health care promises to become even more important in the future. There is still much to be learned about home health care, including when it can be most beneficial, how it can make our health care system more efficient, and how it can reinforce the efforts of millions of American families who provide care for their own members. The Federal government, the States, and the private sector are vigorously pursuing the knowledge that will let us make the best use of this promising resource.
In recognition of the benefits to be derived from home health care services through home health agencies providing skilled nursing services, physical therapy, speech therapy, social services, occupational therapy, and home health aide services, and the many private and charitable organizations which also provide these services, the Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 122, has designated the week of November 27, 1983, through December 3, 1983, as "National Home Care Week" and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of that week.
Now, Therefore, L Ronald Reagan, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the week beginning November 27, 1983, as "National Home Care Week." I call upon the people of the United States to observe that week with appropriate ceremonies and activities.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this 28th day of November, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-three, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and eighth.

RONALD REAGAN
  