
    AUSTIN - Texas Gov. Rick Perry today announced members of his policy and strategy team, including Chip Roy and Brandy Marty as senior advisors; Victoria Coates, Sean Davis and Emily Domenech as policy advisors; and Shana Gooch as policy associate. The governor previously announced Deirdre Delisi policy and strategy director for his campaign.
Chip Roy most recently served as director of state-federal relations in the Office of the Governor of Texas. Prior to that, he served as special assistant U.S. Attorney in the Eastern District of Texas. Additionally, Roy worked for Sen. John Cornyn from 2002-2009, serving in several capacities including staff director and senior counsel in the senator's role as vice chairman of the Republican Conference; senior counsel to the senator on the U.S. Senate Judiciary Committee; and staffer on Sen. Cornyn's 2002 campaign for Senate. Roy received a bachelor's degree in Commerce and master's degree in Management Information Systems from the University of Virginia, and a law degree from the University of Texas.
Brandy Marty has worked for Gov. Perry since 2007, most recently as the director of Budget, Planning and Policy. Additionally, she was policy director for the governor's 2010 primary campaign, and served as the governor's deputy legislative director and House liaison during the 80th Legislative Session. She has previously worked in several capacities for elected officials within the House of Representatives. Marty received a bachelor's degree in government from the University of Texas and a law degree from St. Mary's University.
Victoria Coates served as director of research for former Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld from 2007-2011. She came to Mr. Rumsfeld's office from the University of Pennsylvania, where she received her Ph.D. in Italian Renaissance art and history. She advises Gov. Perry on foreign policy issues.
Sean Davis served as chief investigator and economic policy adviser for Sen. Tom Coburn from 2005 through 2008, and as CFO for The Daily Caller in 2010. While working for Sen. Coburn, Davis helped create USASpending.gov, the first searchable website with information on nearly $1 trillion in federal grants, contracts, sub-grants and sub-contracts. He also drafted the 2005 Senate amendment to defund the infamous Bridge to Nowhere earmark in Alaska. Mr. Davis received a master in business administration from the University of Pennsylvania Wharton School of Business, where he graduated with honors. He advises Gov. Perry on economic issues.
Emily Domenech most recently served in the Office of the Secretary of Defense, where she worked from 2007-2011. She previously served at the Department of Energy, working in the Office of the Secretary of Energy from 2006-2007. Emily recently earned her master's degree in National Security and Strategic Studies at the U.S. Naval War College. She advises the governor on defense, energy and environmental issues.
Shana Gooch most recently worked at Delisi Communications, a political affairs and governmental relations firm. She also served in the office of State Rep. Dwayne Bohac during the 81st legislative session, and formerly interned for U.S. Congressman Michael Burgess and then-Denton County Commissioner Cynthia White. She received a bachelor's degree from the University of North Texas.
  