
    Ames, IA — Former Iowa Deputy Treasurer Joan Bolin Betts endorsed Michael Bennet for President of the United States today. She will serve as Story County Chair, joining fellow Chairs in Poweshiek and Marshall Counties to form Bennet for America's Central Iowa Steering Committee. Betts will lead the committee as it supports the campaign's efforts to reach caucusgoers in the region and across the Hawkeye State.
"Only one candidate clearly stands out as having both a dedicated and successful history of public service: Michael Bennet," said Joan Bolin Betts. "He tells the truth, legislates for justice, and works successfully across the aisle for all Americans. He has it all!"
Bolin Betts' years of public service include tenures as Iowa's Deputy Treasurer and Assistant Attorney General. She also served as an attorney for the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and advocated for county treasurers in her private legal practice.
Other committee members include Dr. Kesho Scott, of Poweshiek County, and Jeff Harris of Marshall County. Bennet for America has unveiled steering committees in eastern Iowa and Polk County in recent weeks.
"I support Michael Bennet because he has made leadership decisions on education that protect our democracy," said Dr. Kesho Scott. "Since an American education is an equalizer of opportunity, I believe we need a candidate who can connect the dots between economic progress and the needs of young people as future citizens."
Dr. Kesho Scott is an Associate Professor of American Studies and Sociology at Grinnell College, an award-winning writer, and an internationally renowned diversity trainer and consultant.
"There are a number of things that impress me about Sen. Bennet. His background includes law, business, and perhaps most impressive, the job of superintendent of the Denver Public Schools," said Jeff Harris. "His tenure in the Senate has been one of thoughtful and fair legislation, and he has the ability to find common ground on both sides of the aisle. Michael believes that unifying the country is just as important as unifying the Democratic Party, which is a belief I share."
Jeff Harris, of Marshalltown, owned a retail travel agency for over 20 years. Previously, he worked for a small manufacturer of hand-held cleaning tools and ran a rural public transit system.
Bennet spent more time in Iowa in September than any other candidate. He returned to Iowa last weekend to speak at the Iowa Democratic Party Liberty & Justice Celebration and meet caucusgoers in Union, Clarke, Polk, Black Hawk, and Warren Counties. This weekend, he will campaign in Pottawattamie and Woodbury Counties.
"Our path to victory runs right through eastern Iowa. Joan, Kesho, and Jeff are leaders in their communities, and we are so excited to have them with us," said Iowa State Director Brian Peters. "Together, they'll play an important role in delivering Michael's message to caucusgoers across the region — and especially to some of the 9 million Americans who voted for Barack Obama twice and then Donald Trump."
Michael Bennet represents Colorado in the Senate, but he has not spent a lifetime in politics. He turned around failing businesses in the private sector and improved outcomes for kids as superintendent of the Denver Public Schools. Bennet is the only candidate in this race who has won two national elections in a swing state. He has released comprehensive, field-leading proposals to provide high-quality, affordable health care with a public option, reward hard work, fix our broken political system, and tackle climate change by working with our farmers and ranchers.
  