
    SAN ANTONIO, TX (November 14, 2019) – Following his historic call to reorder the Democratic primary states this week, former U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) Secretary under President Obama and San Antonio Mayor, Julián Castro secured the endorsement of three critical leaders in Iowa.
Kyla Patterson, the Chair of the Stonewall Caucus of the Iowa Democratic Party, Monica Vallejo, the President of LULAC's Cedar Rapids chapter, and Emily Shields, a prominent community leader, announced their endorsement Wednesday, following Secretary Castro's historic call to reorder the Democratic primary schedule to be inclusive of more diverse states.
On Wednesday, Iowa's The Gazette published an editorial 'Abolish the undemocratic Iowa caucuses' in which they say Secretary Castro is right in calling for a change to the primary schedule. The article notes, "Taking away Iowa's first-in-the-nation status and giving it to a state that is more representative of who America is a necessary bold step, one that no one in Iowa will ever take. But it will be taken from us, if we don't change."
Kyla Patterson, the first transgender Chair of the Stonewall Caucus of the Iowa Democratic Party:"I've gotten to know Secretary Castro over the past year. Whether it was when we had lunch together or celebrating Trans Visibility Day by honoring Selena and playing Loteria, I always felt a sense of belong with him. I never had to chalk up or sugar coat my human self. I could be my authentic self. By him allowing me to be authentic, I have given encouragement of being bolder for the trans community and sex workers rights. He listens and we need the next president to make sure marginalized people are to be counted, not left behind. This is why I am glad to endorse Secretary Castro. He has more than earned my support. I want to make sure his message stays on the debate stage and well after the Iowa Caucus."
Monica Vallejo, President of the Cedar Rapids LULAC:"Julián has been a champion for the most vulnerable and marginalized communities since day one of his campaign. He las led boldly on immigration, housing, education, police violence, and speaking out against Donald Trump's bigotry--issues that matter immensely to the Latino community in Iowa and elsewhere. I'm proud to endorse Secretary Castro because he is fighting for everyone, has a message that will unify Americans of all backgrounds, and will take the fight to Donald Trump's feet next November."
Emily Shields, community leader"In 2020 our party needs a nominee who represents the growing diversity of our nation, who's leading without fear on big ideas and bold stances, and who's not afraid to fight for the least among us. Secretary Julián Castro would be that nominee, and I'm proud to endorse and caucus for him this February."
  