
    All people deserve a government that cares for their safety, their interests, and their wellbeing, including their prosperity.President Donald J. Trump
COMMITTED TO LIBERTY, DEMOCRACY, AND THE RULE OF LAW: President Donald J. Trump is taking a strong stand against the corrupt Nicaraguan regime.

Today, President Donald J. Trump issued an Executive Order "Blocking Property of Certain Persons Contributing to the Situation in Nicaragua."
This Order demonstrates the President's strong leadership in the Western Hemisphere, defense of democratic principles, and protection of human rights.
The President's Order permits:

Sanctions against individuals, entities, and their associates engaged in corruption, human rights abuses, and undermining democracy in Nicaragua.
The targeting of individuals and entities that threaten peace, security, and stability in Nicaragua.


President Trump is committed to pressuring the regime of Nicaraguan President Daniel Ortega to restore democracy and rule of law in the country.
President Trump is calling for free, fair, and early elections in Nicaragua to give the Nicaraguan people a true voice and vote in their future.

IMPOSING SANCTIONS: The Trump Administration is imposing targeted sanctions against high-level officials from the Nicaraguan regime and their supporters.

The Department of the Treasury is imposing sanctions on high-level officials from the Nicaraguan regime. Individuals sanctioned include:

Nicaraguan Vice President Rosario Maria Murillo De Ortega; and
Nestor Moncada Lau – who has acted as a national security advisor to the President and Vice President of Nicaragua.


These individuals are involved in human rights abuse or acts of corruption in Nicaragua.
The Trump Administration will continue to add pressure on the Ortega regime and its supporters, using all the economic and diplomatic tools at our disposal.

STANDING UP TO AUTOCRATIC REGIMES: President Trump is confronting regimes in the region that disregard democracy and degrade security and stability in the hemisphere.

President Trump's actions demonstrate his continued commitment to standing up to autocratic regimes in the Western Hemisphere.

Since taking office, President Trump has worked to counteract the corrupt and destabilizing regimes in Cuba and Venezuela.


President Trump stands with the Cuban, Nicaraguan, and Venezuelan people and supports their calls for freedom.
The Trump Administration will continue to publicly denounce Nicaragua under the Ortega regime as one of three undemocratic outliers in the region.

  