
    The following listing includes the President's daily schedule and other items of general interest as announced by the White House Press Office during the period covered by this issue. Events and announcements printed elsewhere in the issue are not included.
November 12
The President met at the White House with Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs.
The President and Mrs. Carter attended the Navy-Georgia Tech football game in Annapolis, Md.
The President declared a major disaster for the State of Virginia as a result of severe storms and flooding, beginning about October 31, which caused extensive public and private property damage.
The President declared a major disaster for the State of Tennessee as a result of severe storms and flooding, beginning about November 4, which caused extensive public and private property damage. November 14
The President met at the White House with:--Dr. Brzezinski;--senior White House staff members; the Cabinet;--Mr. and Mrs. Hugh A. Carter, Sr., of Georgia, the President's cousins;--Vice President Walter F. Mondale;--a group of administration officials to discuss the budget;--Representatives Al Ullman of Oregon and Harley O. Staggers of West Virginia, to discuss energy.
The President has appointed four officials as members of the Board of Trustees of the American Folklife Center. They are: Assistant Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare Mary F. Berry, Assistant Secretary of Agriculture Alex P. Mercure, Assistant Secretary of the Interior Forrest J. Gerard, and National Park Service Director William Whalen.
November 15
The President met at the White House with:--Dr. Brzezinski;--a group of administration officials to discuss the budget.
November 16
The President met at the White House with:--David L. Aaron, Deputy Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs;--Secretary of Transportation Brock Adams;--James T. Mcintyre, Jr., Acting Director of the Office of Management and Budget;--Charles L. Schultze, Chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers;--R. Heath Larry, president of the National Association of Manufacturers.
November 17
The President met at the White House with:--Dr. Brzezinski;--Kenneth M. Curtis, chairman, and Paul D. Sullivan, secretary-treasurer, Democratic National Committee;--Vice President Mondale, Adm. Stansfield Turner, Director of Central Intelligence, and Dr. Brzezinski;--Mrs. Carter, for lunch;--Vice President Mondale, Secretary of Defense Harold Brown, Gen. George S. Brown, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Charles W. Duncan, Jr., Deputy Secretary of Defense, and Dr. Brezezinski;--Vice President Mondale, Secretary Brown, General Brown, Mr. Duncan, Dr. Brzezinski, and other officials, to discuss the strategic arms limitation talks.
In a ceremony on the North Lawn at the White House, the President planted a red maple tree from Georgia.
The President attended a reception in the State Dining Room in recognition of the 10th anniversary of the American Film Institute (transcript will be printed next week).
The President has appointed Stuart E. Eizenstat, Assistant to the President for Domestic Affairs and Policy, as a member of the Board of Trustees of the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars.
The President .and Mrs. Carter attended the American Film Institute's 10th Anniversary Benefit Gala at the Kennedy Center.
November 18
The President met at the White House with:--Vice President Mondale, Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance and Dr. Brzezinski;--Dr. Brzezinski;
--Dr. Hafdan Mahler, Director General of the World Health Organization, and Peter G. Bourne, Special Assistant to the President for Health Issues;--Mr. Mcintyre;--Adm. Hyman G. Rickover, Deputy Commander for Nuclear Propulsion, Naval Sea Systems Command, Department of the Navy;--Ambassador Arthur J. Goldberg, Chairman of the U.S. Delegation to the Belgrade meeting of the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe, to discuss the progress of the Belgrade Conference;--Soviet Ambassador to the United States A. F. Dobrynin, who delivered a message to the President from President L. I. Brezhnev;--a group of economic and budget advisers for a budget review meeting. The President attended a reception in the East Room for the National Panama Canal Citizens Committee.
The White House announced that on November 17, Israeli Ambassador to the United States Simcha Dinitz delivered a message to the President from Prime Minister Menahem Begin concerning the upcoming visit of Egyptian President Anwar al-Sadat to Jerusalem. Prime Minister Begin thanked the President for his efforts which contributed to bringing about the meeting.
  