
    Rep. DeGette Will Co-Chair Campaign's Health Care Task Force
The Clinton Campaign today announced the endorsement of Colorado Congresswoman Diana DeGette, and named her national Co-Chair of the Campaign's Health Care Policy Task Force and a key adviser on stem cell research. DeGette will also play a major role in advancing Clinton's presidential efforts in her home state of Colorado.
"Hillary Clinton has the strength and experience we need in the next President of the United States," said Rep. DeGette. "Under her leadership, we will finally provide quality, affordable health care for every American. These challenging times call for a leader with Hillary Clinton's ability to hit the ground running on her first day in the White House."
Rep. DeGette has represented the Denver area since 1996; Denver is also home of the 2008 Democratic National Convention where DeGette sits on the Executive Host Committee. Since being elected to Congress, DeGette has risen steadily through the Democratic leadership ranks to become Chief Deputy Whip.
A leading proponent of stem cell research, Rep. DeGette achieved national prominence as the chief architect of the Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act that would overturn President Bush's ban on federal funding of embryonic stem cell research and institute a strict ethical framework for stem cell research. DeGette also played a vital role in reauthorizing the State Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP), which provides health care to more than 6 million kids, and is a leading advocate for consumer product and food safety in the House.
Rep. DeGette currently serves as Vice Chair of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce, where she has promoted policies to ensure health care for our nation's children, protect the American consumer from tainted products and foods, move America toward energy independence, and preserve our wilderness.
Prior to her election to Congress, Rep. DeGette served two terms in the Colorado House of Representatives, serving as Assistant Minority Leader from 1993-1995.
"I admire Diana's tireless commitment to unlocking the potential of stem cell research and expanding health care access for all Americans," Clinton said. "I'm honored to have her support and delighted she'll help lead our efforts in Colorado."
  