
    Support continues to grow; positive message for change resonates
MANCHESTER - It has been one busy and successful month here at New Hampshire for Hillary as the campaign continues to work for every vote. With Senator Clinton's ongoing commitment to visiting New Hampshire, support for Hillary is continuing to grow and grassroots momentum is rolling along in every corner of the state.
NH BY THE NUMBERS:
250,000: The New Hampshire for Hillary team, with 16 offices and thousands of Hillary volunteers, made over 250,000 calls to New Hampshire households.
20,000: The New Hampshire for Hillary campaign reached out to nearly 20,000 voters in one day last week!
352: As Hillary outlined her vision to inspire student activism on November 1st at the University of New Hampshire, NH for Hillary announced 352 Student Leaders for Hillary on 10 campuses across the state.
312: On November 7th over 300 educators announced their support for Hillary, while her visit to the state included an "Organizing for Change" event at Nashua South High School. Listen to Barbara Doyle, President of the Retired Teachers Association of New Hampshire, discuss why so many educators are supporting Hillary.
80: In communities across the state, NH for Hillary's grassroots activities continue full steam ahead with nearly 80 house parties hosted by supporters to discuss Hillary's positive vision and detailed policies to make real change happen in America.
24: On the heels of Senator Clinton's speech delivered last week at the National Forum on Equality, Opportunity and Access in Manchester, the NH for Hillary campaign announced the endorsement of 24 prominent local disability advocates, including Clyde Terry, CEO of Granite State Independent Living, one of the major sponsors of last week's forum.
10: NH for Hillary held 10 constituency phone banks, canvasses and meetings with veterans, educators, women and members of the Latino community
9: At the Mount Cranmore Ski Resort in North Conway, Hillary sat down with 9 undecided New Hampshire voters over hot chocolate and discussed her energy policy, healthcare, Iraq and other important subjects.
4: Hillary spent four days in one week in New Hampshire, shaking hands and earning the support of voters everywhere she went. In those days, she visited Durham, Newmarket, Manchester, Concord, Claremont, Peterborough, Nashua, North Conway, and Somersworth. In true New Hampshire retail tradition, she drank tea at Crackskulls' Books in Newmarket, had breakfast with five supporters at the Belmont Hall diner in Manchester; visited the Red Arrow diner in Manchester, and shook hands with over 200 people at Sophie and Zeke's restaurant in Claremont.
1: Hillary Clinton is the only candidate who has the positive, detailed vision to take on the special interests, change the way government works and make real change happen for America's Middle Class families.
NH for Hillary has welcomed influential Hillary supporters who have barnstormed the state on Hillary's behalf. Hillary also continues to garner endorsements from key community and elected leaders.
Last weekend former Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator Carol Browner visited the state and spoke at the "Step it Up" Rally at the Concord State House.
Congressman and retired Admiral Joe Sestak criss-crossed the Granite State talking about how Hillary will make real change happen. On Sunday, November 4th, he kicked-off a canvass and met with veterans in Nashua before attending a town hall meeting at New England College. Sestak concluded the day with a house party in Peterborough.
On Monday, Hillary received the endorsement of State Representative Tom Buco. Buco, serving his second term in the state house, was the first Democrat in nearly 30 years to be elected from Carroll County. In his endorsement, Buco said, "At a time when our country is facing serious issues both at home and abroad, we need a leader who can rise above negative politics and focus on talking to New Hampshire voters about her detailed, specific plans to confront these challenges head on. Hillary Clinton is an experienced leader with strong plans to end the war in Iraq, provide universal health care for every American, and help boost the economies of communities like Conway. She is the one candidate with a positive message who can deliver the real change this country so desperately needs."
While introducing Senator Hillary Clinton at the Granite State Independent Living (GSIL) Forum in Manchester on November 2nd, State Senator Lou D'Allesandro became the eighth State Senator announced his endorsement of Hillary for president. He has this to say about his endorsement: "After the Democratic Presidential Primary Debate this week, my decision to support Senator Clinton became clear. At this critical time in our country's history, we must move beyond negative politics. At the debate, Hillary demonstrated that she is the only candidate with a strong, positive message. I believe she can deliver the real change our country needs."
 
***Hillary Visits to New Hampshire Continue***
Hillary unveiled her new energy plan this week, discussing her agenda to tackle our climate and energy crisis during her visit to New Hampshire on Wednesday and Thursday. Hillary's comprehensive plan will, among other things, reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 80% and transform our economy from carbon-based to clean and energy efficient.
At a stop in Peterborough, Hillary was joined by home improvement expert and environmental advocate Bob Vila. The pair discussed ways to make America's homes more energy efficient by taking simple steps such as using compact fluorescent light bulbs and wrapping water heaters in a blanket to dramatically reduce energy usage across the country.
Read a Blog post by Bob Vila.Read Hillary's energy plan.Check out some of the great coverage Hillary got in the Keene Sentinel, and the Union Leader.
  