
    To the Congress of the United States:
I am pleased to submit to the Congress the first annual report on health matters covered by the Federal Coal Mine Health and Safety Act of 1969.
The report covers the implementation of the health program during its first year of operation under this act. This program has been carried out by the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health of the Department of Health, Education and Welfare. The report provides a compendium of health standards, medical specifications, research and public health information activities from December 30, 1969 through December 31, 1970.
Highlighted in this document are the health regulations promulgated under the act, the status of the medical and industrial hygiene research projects, specific health standard recommendations to control and eliminate occupational disease, and proposed research for the future.
It is encouraging to note that as of December 31, 1970, the Department of Health, Education and Welfare approved 398 Coal Mine Operator Plans in which the company is providing an opportunity for confidential medical examinations at no cost to the miner. These plans applied to nearly 76,000 underground miners. Concurrently, 440 physicians sought and obtained certification to participate in the reading of chest roentgenograms. Contracts have also been made by the Public Health Service with medical organizations to provide for chest x-rays of coal miners in seven States at the mines where operators have not submitted such plans, and additional contracts are now being obtained for the remaining 14 States which have underground coal mining operations. A comprehensive research program has been established to develop criteria necessary to set optimal health standards. The Department of Health, Education and Welfare is moving rapidly to further refine health and safety standards and to assist the Department of the Interior in the implementation of this act.
I commend this report to the attention of the Congress.
RICHARD NIXON
The White House
November 23, 1971
  