
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
October 27
In the morning, the President had telephone conversations with Chairman Yasser Arafat of the Palestinian Authority and Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu of Israel concerning issues in the Middle East.
In the afternoon, the President traveled to Springfield, VA. Later, he had a telephone conversation with New York Yankees manager Joe Torre to congratulate him on the team's victory in the World Series.
In the late afternoon, the President traveled to Nashville, TN. While en route, aboard Air Force One, he had a telephone conversation with Atlanta Braves owner Ted Turner and manager Bobby Cox to congratulate them on the team's performance this season.
In the evening, the President traveled to St. Louis, MO.
October 28
In the afternoon, the President traveled to Minneapolis, MN. In the evening, he traveled to Chicago, IL. Later, the President traveled to Columbus, OH, arriving after midnight.
The President declared a major disaster in Maine and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms, heavy rains, high winds, and inland and coastal flooding beginning October 20 and continuing.
The White House announced that the President has designated Richard Schifter, Special Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs and Counselor, National Security Council, to serve also as Special Adviser to the President and the Secretary of State for the Southeast European Cooperative Initiative.
October 29
In the morning, the President traveled to Philadelphia, PA, arriving in the afternoon. Later, he returned to Washington, DC.
The President announced his intention to appoint Carol W. Greider to the National Bioethics Advisory Commission.
The President declared a major disaster in New Hampshire and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by the fall Nor'easter rainstorm on October 20-23.
October 30
In the morning, the President attended a Democratic National Committee breakfast at the Sheraton Carlton Hotel. In the afternoon, he traveled to Ypsilanti, MI.
In the evening, he traveled to Denver, CO. Later, he traveled to Phoenix, AZ, arriving after midnight.
The President announced his intention to appoint Bernard E. Anderson to the Overseas Private Investment Corporation Board of Directors.
October 31
In the afternoon, the President traveled to Las Vegas, NV. Later, he traveled to Oakland, CA. In the evening, he traveled to Santa Barbara, CA.
November 1
In the afternoon, the President traveled to El Paso, TX, and Las Cruces, NM. In the evening, he traveled to San Antonio, TX.
  