
    To: Interested Parties
From: The Clinton Campaign
Re: Young People Voicing Their Support for Hillary Clinton
At every event, in every state and online, young people are standing up to voice their support for Hillary Clinton.
Hillary Clinton has more than 140,000 supporters on MySpace and more Friendster supporters than any other candidate, hundreds of thousands of young supporters at hillaryclinton.com, and thousands more at college campuses across America.
This week, Gallup reported that Hillary Clinton's support among 18-34 year-olds in the multi-candidate Democratic primary had climbed 11 points to 45 percent - more than any other candidate. The Harris Interactive poll also showed Hillary ahead among every age group, including 18-30 year-olds. The Cook Political / RT Strategies poll had Clinton ahead by 11 points in September among 18-34 year-olds, after trailing by 16 points in April. And the LA Times/Bloomberg poll has Clinton leading the Democrats among 18-29 year-olds with 46 percent compared with 33 percent for her closest rival.
In a nationwide poll of 18 to 30 year olds released today - conducted by Rock the Vote, WWEs Smackdown Your Vote!, and Sacred Heart University - Hillary has support from 54 percent of those polled, leading her nearest opponent in the Democratic primary by 30 points.
Furthermore, in the general election, 18-34 year-olds choose Hillary Clinton over Rudy Giuliani by a margin of 45 percent to 33 percent in the October Cook/RT Strategies poll, up from a 7 point deficit in April.
Young women in particular are driving Hillary Clinton's strong support among young people - 94 percent of women aged 18-34 say they would turn out to vote for the first woman president because it would be important to them. And in the June CBS News / MTV / New York Times poll of 17-29 year-olds, 46 percent of young women said they were enthusiastic about Hillary Clinton, compared with 35 percent for her closest competitor (excluding "none" and "don't know" responses).
Hillary's message of change is cross-generational, and especially appeals to young people. Voters say she is the most inspirational candidate (ABC/Washington Post poll Sept 27-30), and the one who is most likely to bring about needed change (Fox Sept 11-12 and CNN Sept 7-8). And for the last five years, Hillary Clinton has been named the Most Admired Woman in America by Gallup respondents.
Why are young people so enthusiastic about Hillary Clinton? They recognize that Hillary's election would truly break barriers. They know Hillary will continue leading the fight for them on the issues that matter including college affordability, health care, education, reducing the deficit, creating jobs, providing child care and ending the war in Iraq.
And this week, Students for Hillary demonstrates that enthusiasm with hundreds of student volunteers all across America coming together to make Hillary Clinton our next president.
  