
    The Rudy Giuliani Presidential Committee today announced Viva Rudy, a coalition of Hispanic voters supporting Mayor Giuliani for President. U.S. Representative Luis Fortuño, National Co-Chair of Viva Rudy, and Florida State Representative Rene Garcia, Chair of Florida Viva Rudy, joined other members and supporters at events in Orlando and Miami.
"Rudy is the candidate Hispanic voters in Florida and across the country are counting on to pursue conservative policies that will strengthen their families and their communities," said Fortuño. "Rudy knows the importance of growing the economy, cutting taxes for families and helping small businesses succeed. We can count on the Mayor to be a great President."
"Mayor Giuliani's message of strong leadership and record of real results resonates with Florida's Hispanic voters. From his strong stance in opposition to the Castro regime to his 12 Commitments to the American People, the members of this coalition are proud to support Rudy," said Garcia.
Florida Viva Rudy:
Nancy C. Acevedo, Founder of Republican National Hispanic Assembly of Central Florida
Angelette Aviles, Republican Party of Florida Hispanic Advisory Council Member
Esteban Bovo, Hialeah Council President
Miriam Cajiga
Jose F. Caragol, Hialeah Councilman
Vivian Casals-Munoz, Hialeah Councilman
Giovanni Casanova
Joseph M. Cobo
Jackie Colon, Brevard County Commissioner
David Correa, Naples Community Hospital Administrator
Edward De Aguilera, Hispanic Chamber of Commerce Director of Events
Yioset De La Cruz, Hialeah Gardens Councilman
Maria De La Milera
Rose Ferlita, Hillsborough County Commissioner
Luis Fortuño, Resident Commissioner of Puerto Rico
Luciano Garcia, Hialeah Gardens
Rene Garcia, State Representative
Zavier Garcia, Miami Springs Councilman
Carlos Gimenez, Miami-Dade County Commissioner
Eddy Gonzalez, State Representative
Luis Gonzalez, Hialeah Councilman
Daniel Gonzalez, Republican Business Network President
Deborah Gonzalez
Mareittsa Griggs, Metro Orlando University Professor
Cindy Guerra, Regional Deputy Attorney General
Joseph M. Guerra
Jorge Guiterrez, Hialeah Councilman
Elvira F. Hasty, St. John's County State Committeewoman
Carlos Hernandez, Hialeah Council Vice President
William D. Hernandez
Chely Hernandez-Miller
Jose Hoyos
Carlos Irizarry, Kissimmee City Councilman
Bob Martinez, Former Florida Governor
Lissette Medina
Jorge A. Merida, Hialeah Gardens Councilman
Eduardo Muhina, West Miami Commissioner
Art Otero
Juan-Carlos "JC" Planas, State Representative
Julio Robaina, State Representative
Julio Robaina, Mayor of Hialeah
Javier J. Rodriguez
Jose Rodriguez, Vice Mayor of Boynton Beach
Bettina Rodriguez-Aguilera
Victor Rodriguez-Vierra
Jesus A. Santana, West Miami Commissioner
David Santiago, Deltona City Commissioner
Rebeca Sosa, Miami-Dade Commissioner
Phil Tua, Chairman of Republican National Hispanic Assembly of Central Florida
Elmo Urra, Hialeah Gardens Councilman
Jose "Pepe" Yedra, Hialeah Gardens Councilman
  