
    Business Professionals to Advise Campaign, Mobilize Support Among Silver State Voters
The Clinton campaign today announced the formation of the Nevada Business Leadership Council, a group of business professionals and community leaders endorsing Hillary's bid for the Presidency. The council will advise the campaign on business, finance and trade issues and lead efforts to mobilize Nevada caucus goers to turn out for Hillary.
"Hillary Clinton has the depth of understanding and breadth of experience to restore our nation's place in the global economy," said former Las Vegas Mayor Jan Jones. "She understands that we need both a strong business community and a strong workforce - and that the two are not mutually exclusive. As president, Hillary will value innovation, bringing new industries and ideas to the forefront of the national agenda. She will also restore fiscal responsibility to our government and ensure that all Americans can share in the fruits of a prosperous economy."
"In a world in which we are increasingly competing on a global scale, Hillary Clinton has the leadership skills to bring about the change America needs making this country better and stronger, and that is good for business," said Phil Satre, former Chairman and CEO of Harrah's Entertainment Incorporated. "Hillary is committed to improving the lives of all Americans who will benefit from her plans to improve education, reduce our dependency on foreign oil and create new green collar jobs. I am excited to work with the campaign to deliver the Silver State for Hillary."
"Hillary Clinton possesses the vision, intellect, and experience necessary to put our country back on the right track," said VEGAS.com CEO Howard Lefkowitz. "We face a deficit that is spiraling out of control, credibility issues among the nations of the world, cynicism among our own population, huge health care issues, and precious little room for a prosperous middle class. I believe that as president, Hillary will work to resolve the most pressing issues hindering our nation and fight to ensure that all Americans have the opportunity to pursue their dreams."
Members of Hillary Clinton's Nevada Business Leadership Council include:

Brian Ayala, President, Ayala's Inc.
Elaine Barkdull, Rural Economic Development specialist, Elko
Scoot Bogatz, Senior Vice President/General Counsel Focus Property Group
David Borgert, Icebox Kitchen, LLC
Stephen Cloobeck, Chairman & CEO, Diamond Resorts International
Louis Conners, Owner, Seven Seas Restaurant
Bruce Deifik, President, American Nevada Company
Chris Donohue , Executive Vice President, SouthwestUSA Bank
Cornelius Eason, President, Priority Staffing USA
Nancy Fennell, Business owner
Elizabeth Gamble, Marketing and Communications Expert
Dominic Gentile, Partner, Gordan & Silver, Ltd
David Goldwater, President, Goldwater Capital Nevada, Ltd.
Robert Gomez, President and Owner, Magic Brite Janitorial
Myra Greenspun, Philanthropist and Community Activist
Barbara Gruenwald, Attorney
Faye Haber, President, Estyle CAPS
Michael Haber, President, Small Business Authority
Jan Jones, Senior Vice President, Harrah's Entertainment Incorporated
Tom Kaplan, Senior Managing Partner, The Wolfgang Puck Fine Dining Group
Howard Lefkowitz, CEO, Vegas.Com
Punam Mather, Senior Vice President, MGM Mirage Corporate Diversity
Julia Mitchell, Owner, Tahoeblues, LTD
Irwin Molasky, Developer and Philanthropist
Dana Myers, President, Quanta Financial
James Nave, Veterinarian
Thomas Reilly, Philanthropist and Former County Manager
James Rogers, Philanthropist
Phil Satre, former Chairman and CEO of Harrah's Entertainment, Incorporated
Henry Terry, Executive Director Human Resources, Playlv Gaming Operations
James Tobin, Founder, International Bottle Company

  