
    "All of these provisions are specifically meant to relieve tax burdens on the middle-class. That's a goal that Democrats have repeatedly said they'd support."
Democrats were for tax reform before they were against it
By Ronna McDaniel
Washington Examiner
November 29, 2017
...
The Tax Cuts & Jobs Act is steadily making its way through Congress and will be a welcome relief to families, businesses, and workers, letting everyone keep more of their hard-earned money.
Now, as the full Senate prepares to consider the bill, Democrats in Congress vowing to oppose the bill should remember what they themselves once supported.
Just take Democrat leadership, for example. Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer, D-N.Y., said this August that his party wanted a plan that would ease the tax burden on the middle-class.
...
House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., in May spoke in favor of reforms to create a fair tax system and grow the economy – and she specifically cautioned against ideological negotiation in the process.
...
Schumer and Pelosi are joined in hypocrisy by a slew of their Democrat colleagues: Sen. Claire McCaskill of Missouri has called for tax reform. So have Sens. Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts, Bill Nelson of Florida, Bob Casey of Pennsylvania, and Tammy Baldwin of Wisconsin. Sen. Debbie Stabenow of Michigan agreed this year, as did Rep. Tim Ryan of Ohio.
In fact, Democrats were in favor of key provisions of the new tax cut package before there ever was a plan.
...
The tax plan will cut individual tax rates for low- and middle-income Americans, meaning the average middle-class family will see relief of nearly $1,500 per year. It will roughly double the standard deduction, expand the zero tax bracket, and maintain a 10 percent bracket. It will effectively repeal Obamacare's individual mandate tax and eliminate special-interest deductions, all while protecting deductions that encourage philanthropy and home ownership.
Key provisions of the Senate's tax bill are bipartisan – or rather, nonpartisan. Notably, the bill will slash the corporate tax rate to 20 percent, marking the biggest reduction of this tax in our nation's history.
...
We have one question for the Democrats: Will you help Congress keep its promise to the public?
Read the full op-ed here.
  