
    By virtue of and pursuant to the authority vested in me as President of the United States, it is hereby ordered as follows:
1. The several executive departments, independent establishments and other governmental agencies in the District of Columbia, including the Government Printing Office and the Navy Yard and Naval stations, shall be closed at 1 o'clock P.M. on Thursday, December 24, 1936, the day preceding Christmas Day, and the entire day on Saturday, January 2, 1937, the day following New Year's Day; and all employees in the Federal Service in the District of Columbia, and in the field service of the executive departments, independent establishments and other agencies of the Government, except those who may for special public reasons be excluded from the provisions of this Order by the heads of their respective departments, establishments or agencies, or those whose absence from duty would be inconsistent with the provisions of existing law, shall be excused from duty at 1 o'clock P.M. on Thursday, December 24, 1936, and the entire day on Saturday, January 2, 1937.
2. All employees in the field service of the executive departments, independent establishments and other agencies of the Government, except those who may for special public reasons be excluded from the provisions of this order by the heads of their respective departments, establishments, or agencies, or those whose absence from duty would be inconsistent with the provisions of existing law, shall be excused from duty the entire day on Saturday, December 26, 1936, which day has been declared a legal holiday in the District of Columbia by Public Resolution No. 114, 74th Congress.
3. For the purposes of this Order, in establishments or agencies in which the employees work in shifts, such employees shall, subject to the foregoing provisions, be excused from duty after four hours of work on Thursday, December 24, 1936, and from all duty on Saturday, January 2, 1937, and such employees who are affected by paragraph 2 of this Order shall, subject to the provisions of that paragraph, be excused from all duty on Saturday, December 26, 1936.
FRANKLIN D ROOSEVELT
THE WHITE HOUSE,November 27, 1936.
  