
    Good morning. This week, all across America, we gather with the people we love to give thanks for the blessings in our lives. Each family has its own traditions, yet we are united as a nation in setting aside a day of gratitude. We are grateful for the freedoms we enjoy, grateful for the loved ones who give meaning to our lives, and grateful for the many gifts of this prosperous land. On Thanksgiving we acknowledge that all of these things, and life itself, come not from the hand of man but from Almighty God.
The blessings we have received take on special meaning in this time of challenge for our country. Over the last year, millions of Americans have found renewed appreciation for our liberty and for the men and women who serve in its defense. We have held our family and our friends closer, spending more time together, and letting them know we love them.
Taking time to count our own blessings reminds us that many people struggle every day—men, women, and children facing hunger, homelessness, illness, addiction, or despair. These are not strangers. They are fellow Americans needing comfort, love, and compassion. I ask all Americans to consider how you can give someone in need a reason to be thankful in this holiday season and throughout the year.
It's easy to get started and to have an immediate impact. Volunteering your time at a soup kitchen, teaching a child to read, visiting a patient in the hospital, or taking a meal to an elderly neighbor or a shut-in are all simple acts of compassion that can brighten someone's life. Every act of love and generosity, however small it may seem, is significant. Every time you reach out to a neighbor in need, you touch a life, you improve your community, and you strengthen our Nation.
Earlier this year, I created the USA Freedom Corps office in the White House to harness the power of millions of acts of charity, compassion, and love to make America a better place. I hope you'll consider joining the armies of compassion and dedicating time and energy and service to others. I'm so proud of the millions of Americans who have answered the call to service, enriching the lives of others with acts of kindness. It is a testament to the good heart and the giving spirit of the American people.
There's no better time than this season of Thanksgiving to renew our commitment to helping those in need. The USA Freedom Corps web site— usafreedomcorps.gov—is a wonderful place to get started. This resource offers valuable information about service opportunities in your hometown, across America, and around the world. You can also get information by calling 1-877-USA-CORPS.
Take the time to find out how you can help your fellow Americans and make this holiday season a season of service.
Happy Thanksgiving, and thank you for listening.
  