
    ST. HELENA ISLAND, S.C. – Speaking to 600 people packed inside the Penn Center's Darrah Hall, U.S. Sen. Bernie Sanders on Sunday called for paid family leave for new parents and expanded benefits for seniors who rely on Social Security.
Sanders is one of 19 Senate co-sponsors of the Family and Medical Leave Act introduced by Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand. Rep. Rosa DeLauro is the chief sponsor of a companion bill with 112 co-sponsors in the House.
Under both measures, workers would be entitled to three months of paid leave to care for a newborn child. The legislation also calls for a small payroll tax totaling $1.38 a week for a typical worker.
Former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton does not support Gillibrand's bill, aides have said. Sanders urged all presidential candidates to join him in supporting the legislation.
The senator from Vermont also called on other White House hopefuls to join him in supporting a boost in benefits for retirees and the disabled.
With Social Security recipients facing a coming year with no cost-of-living adjustment for inflation, Sanders' Social Security Expansion Act would make sure annual inflation adjustments are based on a formula that better measures seniors' spending. Increasing medical costs and rising prices prescription drugs disproportionately impact seniors, Sanders told the audience here in South Carolina.
Legislation he introduced in the Senate also would increase Social Security benefits and scrap a cap on income subject to the payroll tax. Now, someone making millions of dollars a year pays no more than someone making $118,500 a year. Levying the same tax rate on annual income greater than $250,000 would only impact the top 1.5 percent of wage earners while boosting benefits for millions of retirees.
"I would hope that every Democratic candidate for president of the United States is prepared to lift the cap and expand benefits for millions of seniors in this country who desperately need to see those benefits expanded," Sanders said.
According to published reports, Clinton has not categorically ruled out benefit cuts including an increase in the retirement age.
Sen. Sanders' plan to expand and extend Social Security would boost the income of a typical senior making less than $16,000 a year by about $1,300 a year. It would also make sure that Social Security could pay every benefit owed to every eligible American for the next 50 years.
  