
    Pool Reports by Juliane Schaeuble, Der Tagesspiegel 



Sent:
Reports:




November 22, 202115:08

VP Pool Report #1 - checking in 
Good afternoon from the White House (where the Christmas Tree is arriving right now). Your pooler has been tested and is waiting for the remarks of Vice President Harris on COVID equity in the South Court Auditorium. The event is supposed to start at 3:30 p.m. The VP's remarks will be live-streamed at WhiteHouse.gov/live.



November 22, 202115:42

VP Pool Report #2 - event started 
Follow livestream here:https://www.whitehouse.gov/live/
VP entered the South Court Auditorium with Surgeon General Vivek Murthy and HRSA Associate Administrator for Health Workforce and Director of the National Health Service Corps Dr. Luis Padilla at 3:29 p.m.
SG Murthy spoke first and told the story how he came to medicine and stressed how important it is to close the health equity gap in America. He also mentioned what an honor it is for him to serve „under the first black and the first Indian American Vice President of the United States".
Dr. Luis Padilla spoke second and introduced the Vice President.
Harris began her remarks at 3:38 p.m. by commenting on the tragedy in Waukesha, Wisconsin. Then, the VP turned to the pandemic and „our commitment to equity". She called on „the entire nation to close the gaps in vaccination rates".
Harris is wearing a brown suit and a black blouse.



November 22, 202115:56

VP Pool Report #3 - more quotes and end of event 
VP Harris stressed that the „nation must invest in a health care workforce that looks like America and provide access to equitable health care for all Americans". She announced the investment of 1.5 billion dollars that flows amongst others into the Health Service Corps and Army Nurse Corps. The VP ended at 3:45 p.m.
VP Harris did not answer any questions if Jay Powell wass the right person to lead the Fed or if American families should feel safe gathering for Thanksgiving.
That's from me, enjoy the rest of the day!




  