
    The following listing includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the White House Press Office and not included elsewhere in this issue.
October 28
The President returned to the White House from Camp David, Md.
October 29
The President met at the White House with:
—Vice President Walter F. Mondale; —Members of the House of Representatives to discuss hospital cost containment legislation.
The President participated in a briefing by administration officials on energy given for community leaders in the East Room at the White House.
In the evening, the President attended a dinner meeting in the State Dining Room, to discuss energy legislation with a bipartisan group of Congressmen. October 30
The President met at the White House with:
—Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs;
—Nelson H. Cruikshank, Counselor to the President on Aging;
—members of the Ad Hoc Leadership Council of Organizations on Aging;
—singer Joan Baez, to discuss relief efforts for Indochina refugees. The President participated in a briefing by administration officials on the strategic arms limitation treaty given for community leaders from Illinois and Mississippi in the East Room at the White House.
The President announced the appointment of Moon Landrieu, Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, as a member of the Advisory Commission on Intergovernmental Relations for a 2-year term.
October 31
The President met at the White House with:
—David L. Aaron, Deputy Assistant for National Security Affairs;
—Vice President Mondale, Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare Patricia R. Harris, Secretary of Housing and Urban Development Moon Landrieu, Secretary of Labor Ray Marshall, Secretary of Transportation Neil Goldschmidt, James T. McIntyre, Jr., Director of the Office of Management and Budget, Stuart E. Eizenstat, Assistant to the President for Domestic Affairs and Policy, and Alonzo L. McDonald, Jr., Assistant to the President, to discuss domestic policies;
—Frank B. Moore, Assistant to the
President for Congressional Liaison;
—Stansfield Turner, Director of Central Intelligence, and Mr. Aaron;
—Mr. McIntyre.
November 1
The President met at the White House with:
—Mr. Aaron;
—Senator Thad Cochran of Mississippi;
—Mr. Moore;
—members of the National Commission for Employment Policy;
—Representative Dan Rostenkowski of Illinois.
The President participated in a briefing on the administration's programs and policies given for civic and community leaders from Maryland in the East Room at the White House.
November 2
The President met at the White House with:
—Mr. Aaron;
—Mr. Moore;
—Hedley W. Donovan, Senior Adviser to the President;
—Senator Donald W. Riegle, Jr., of Michigan.
The President left the White House for a weekend stay at Camp David.
  