
    
Marco continues to defend his record of supporting American counterterrorism measures — in contrast to Senator Ted Cruz, who voted to weaken our anti-terror intelligence programs earlier this year.
As Politico reports, Marco emphasizes this is about the core responsibility of the President of the United States:
On Tuesday, Rubio and his team went all in, painting Cruz as weak on national security, an attack line that seizes on growing unease in the United States since the Paris attacks. In brief remarks after a closed Senate Intelligence Committee briefing on the Paris attacks, Rubio stood by his comments the night before that Cruz and a number of other GOP senators had voted to "weaken" national security and intelligence gathering.
"It eventually undermines our ability to collect information and to monitor those who seek to harm the United States," Rubio said.
Asked why he singled out Cruz among the 67 senators who ultimately voted for the reforms, Rubio replied: "We have a race for commander in chief, and the most important obligation of a president is to keep our country safe."
Remember: The bill Cruz led through Congress to weaken our anti-terror programs was pushed by President Obama and Harry Reid. 

Marco's decision to stand with national security conservatives, rather than pushing the Obama-Reid bill with Ted Cruz, is being praised:
[T]here was evidence among senior senators that Rubio's aggressive posture on national security and foreign policy is working.
"People who have extensive experience on national security issues and intelligence issues right now are going to have an advantage," said Sen. John Thune (R-S.D.).
"Marco has sort of staked out for some time pretty strong positions on those issues, and I think he's well-positioned to make the arguments."
Added Sen. Dan Coats (R-Ind.): "Marco is right on it, and he's got the intelligence to be right on it."
Marco is committed to giving America's intelligence community the tools they need to combat radical Islamists and keep the American people safe.
  