
    Little Rock, AR – U.S. Congressman Bob Inglis (R-SC) formally endorsed former Arkansas Governor Mike Huckabee for President tonight on a conference call with supporters, it was announced.
"Mike Huckabee is a conservative focused on the future and rooted in principle. He's also the candidate best able to unite Republicans, appeal to independents and win over some Democrats. I'm glad to be on his team," said Inglis.
Said Huckabee: "I'm honored to have Congressman Inglis's endorsement. Bob's wealth of experience in Congress and his principled leadership qualities are tremendous assets. I look forward to working with Bob and other members of our South Carolina leadership teams in ensuring a successful January 19th Primary Day in the Palmetto State."
Rep. Inglis is serving his fifth term overall in Congress. Initially elected to represent the Fourth District of South Carolina (Greenville, Spartanburg, Union, and part of Laurens County) in 1993, he stepped down to run for the U.S. Senate in 1998. He was elected to Congress again in 2004 and re-elected in 2006. He serves on the Science & Technology Committee and is Ranking Member on the Energy & Environment Subcommittee. He also sits on the Foreign Affairs Committee during the 110th Congress; chaired the Research Subcommittee of the Science Committee in the 109th Congress; and has served on both the Judiciary and the Education and Workforce Committees. He currently co-chairs the House Hydrogen and Fuel Cell Caucus.
Inglis and his wife Mary Ann are graduates of Duke University and got married after his year at the University of Virginia School of Law. They have five children, ages 21 to 10 (Robert, 21; Mary Ashton, 19; McCullough, 17; Andrews, 12; Meade, 10). The Inglis's are members of Redeemer Presbyterian Church of Travelers Rest.
Inglis joins an already extensive team of South Carolina leaders supporting Mike Huckabee for President. In February, Huckabee announced the support of the family of former Governor Carroll Campbell, with former First Lady Iris Campbell serving as Honorary Co-Chair and Governor Campbell's youngest son Mike Campbell as State Chairman.
In May, former Governor David Beasley and his wife, former First Lady Mary Wood Beasley, joined the Huckabee campaign. Last month, former State Republican Party Chairman George Graham joined a series of legislators, including five from the upstate, in backing Mike Huckabee for President.
Huckabee will return to South Carolina on Saturday, Nov. 24 to attend the USC-Clemson football game, where he will campaign with former World Wrestling Champion Ric Flair while meeting and greeting supporters beginning at 5:00 PM outside the West Entrance to Williams Brice Stadium in spaces 433-434.
On Sunday, Huckabee will speak at services at both Gateway Baptist Church in Irmo and the First Baptist Church of Fountain Inn, prior to attending a Meet and Greet at the home of Senator David Thomas in Greenville and a Sportsmen's Meet and Greet at the Spartanburg Gun Club, which is located at 180 Fretwell Rd in Spartanburg.
  