
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate four individuals and appoint one individual to serve in his Administration:
The President intends to nominate Marc L. Kesselman, of Tennessee, to be General Counsel of the Department of Agriculture. Mr. Kesselman currently serves as Deputy General Counsel in the Office of Management and Budget, where he previously served as Associate General Counsel. Prior to that, he served as Senior Counsel in the Office of Legal Policy at the Department of Justice. He was also a Trial Attorney in the Federal Programs Branch of the Department. Prior to joining the Administration, Mr. Kesselman was an Associate with Ropes & Gray, LLP. Earlier in his career, he served as a Law Clerk for the Honorable Julia S. Gibbons, Chief Judge, U.S. District Court in Memphis, Tennessee. Mr. Kesselman received his bachelor's degree from Cornell University and his JD from the University of Pennsylvania.
The President intends to nominate Peter N. Kirsanow, of Ohio, to be a Member of the National Labor Relations Board, for the remainder of a five-year term expiring August 27, 2008. Mr. Kirsanow is currently a Partner with Benesch Friedlander Coplan & Aronoff, LLP. In addition, he serves as a Member of the United States Commission on Civil Rights. Mr. Kirsanow previously served as Senior Legal Counsel for Leaseway Transportation Corporation in Cleveland, Ohio. Prior to that, he served as Labor Counsel for the City of Cleveland. Earlier in his career, Mr. Kirsanow practiced law with Calfee, Halter & Griswold, LLP. He received his bachelor's degree from Cornell University and his JD from Cleveland Marshall College of Law.
The President intends to nominate Claudia A. McMurray, of Virginia, to be Assistant Secretary of State for Oceans and International Environmental and Scientific Affairs. Ms. McMurray currently serves as Deputy Assistant Secretary for Environment at the Department of State. She previously served as Associate Deputy Administrator at the Environmental Protection Agency. Prior to joining the Administration, she served as a Principal for McMurray & Associates, where she consulted with clients on environmental, natural resource and energy issues. Earlier in her career, Ms. McMurray served as Counsel to the Senate Committee on Environment and Public Works and as Legislative Counsel to Senator John Warner. She received her bachelor's degree from Smith College and her JD from Georgetown University.
The President intends to nominate Daniel Meron, of Maryland, to be General Counsel of the Department of Health and Human Services. Mr. Meron currently serves as Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General for the Civil Division at the Department of Justice, where he previously served as Counselor and Chief of Staff. Prior to joining the Department of Justice, he served as Partner at Sidley Austin Brown & Wood, LLP. Earlier in his career, Mr. Meron was a Law Clerk for the Honorable Justice Anthony M. Kennedy, United States Supreme Court. He also served as a Law Clerk for the Honorable Laurence H. Silberman, United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit. Mr. Meron received his bachelor's degree and his JD from Harvard University.
The President intends to appoint Noel Michael McKinnell, of Massachusetts, to be a Member of the Commission of Fine Arts, for a four-year term expiring October 2, 2006.
  