
    
Talking points for the conservative cousin who wants to know if Hillary wears a wig.
Thanksgiving dinner inevitably comes with a side of uncomfortable political conversation. Christina Reynolds, Hillary's deputy director of communications, is here to help with some answers to your FAQs (Family's Awkward Questions):

As Hillary herself has noted on a number of occasions, while the color may not be real, the hair is.


The real question is, what hasn't she done? She was a leader in the Senate and the Obama administration, for starters. As a senator from New York, she helped secure $20 billion in federal aid to rebuild after 9/11 and to care for responders. She helped create the Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP), which covers more than 8 million kids and cut the children's uninsured rate in half. She negotiated a 2012 ceasefire between Israel and Hamas as secretary of state.
As Marco Rubio put it, "if this election is a resume competition, then Hillary Clinton is going to be the next president."
Need more material? Check here. (And here. And here.)


Really? So you don't think America is ready for a president with four decades of experience fighting for families and children? That's a shame.


To steal a line from Hillary, the rest of the Republican field is just Trump without the pizzazz or the hair. They've proposed massive tax cuts for the top 1 percent and they're bending over backward to say extreme things that appeal to the rightest end of the right wing. Frankly, there's not much daylight between the Republican candidates at all.


Then get ready for a long campaign. Hillary believes—just like millions of Americans do—that women should have the right to make their own health care decisions. And Planned Parenthood is a vital provider of women's health care.


Equal pay, paid leave, and child care are not "women's issues"—they're economic issues. Beyond the fact that it's just not right that women make 78 cents on average for every dollar that men make (and that women of color lose out even more), Hillary wants to close the gender wage gap because when women make less than men, their families (and our economy) pay a price.


You're joking, right??Since you asked, at least a dozen U.S. presidents were also grandparents.?
Now get yourself a second helping of yams and stop asking silly questions.
  