
    The President today announced his intention to appoint the following individuals to be members of the Presidential Advisory Council on the Peace Corps. These are new positions. The President also intends to designate Colleen White as Chairman and Ed Young as Vice Chairman.
Colleen Toy White is a special assistant in the district attorney's office of Ventura County, CA. She was born June 19, 1944, in Wetumka, OK, and now resides in Camarillo, CA.
Ed Young is an agribusiness consultant and managing partner of Young Brothers, Inc., in Florence, SC. He was born September 7, 1920, in Florence, SC, where he now resides.
Katherine Milner Anderson is chairman of the board of Domino's Pizza of Washington, DC, Inc., and previously served as Associate Director of the Office of Cabinet Affairs at the White House. She was born December 16, 1947, in Gulfport, MS, and now resides in Alexandria, VA.
L. Francis Bouchey is a Washington, DC, based international and public affairs consultant who serves as the president of the Council for Inter-American Security, Inc. He was born October 3, 1942, in Yakima, WA, and now resides in Falls Church, VA.
Lucia del Carmen Lombana-Cadavid has served in financial and administrative positions with the Bank of America (Los Angeles); First National City Bank of New York (Medellin, Colombia) and the Sociedad Aeronautico de Medellin (Medellin, Colombia). She was born December 3, 1937, in Medellin, Colombia, and now resides in Alexandria, VA.
James G. Calhoun managed J.V. Calhoun Co., manufacturer representatives, for over 50 years. He was born October 8, 1926, in Philadelphia, PA, and now resides in Rosemont, PA.
Ben Kinchlow is cohost of the Christian Broadcasting Network program "The 700 Club" in Virginia Beach, VA. He was born December 27, 1936, in Uvalde, TX, and now resides in Virginia Beach.
Alicia Casanova is a part-time consultant to ACTION in Washington, DC. She was born March 2, 1937, in Havana, Cuba, and now resides in Bethesda, MD.
Pierre Manon is a management consultant and attorney in Palm Springs, CA. He was born April 21, 1914, in Bucharest, Romania, and now resides in Palm Springs.
Anthony T. Mercurio is a retired officer of the United States Army and a business consultant for National Dynamics. He was born April 18, 1934, in West Bend, WI, and now resides in El Paso, TX.
Alex Stiglitz has been self-employed as a real estate investor and small business adviser since coming to the United States in 1949. He is retired and is currently involved in community service as a volunteer crime prevention specialist in the Los Angeles County Sheriffs Department. He was born September 28, 1925, in Budapest, Hungary, and now resides in Los Angeles, CA.
James B. Taylor is executive director of the Young America's Foundation in Reston, VA. He was born June 23, 1943, in Philadelphia, PA, and now resides in Reston.
Jack M. Webb is head of the law firm of Jack M. Webb and Associates, which he founded in 1982. He was born February 23, 1936, in Monroe, LA, and now resides in Houston, TX.
Martha Barnes Weisend is involved in community service in Dallas, TX. She was born September 15, 1931, in Memphis, TN, and now resides in Dallas.
Sam H. Zakhem is vice president of corporate relations and economic affairs of Rocky Mountain Orthodontics. He was born November 25, 1935, in Lebanon and now resides in Denver, CO.
  