
    STATEMENT OF ADMINISTRATION POLICY
(Senate)
(Sens. Byrd (D) Alaska; Landrieu (D) Louisiana)
This Statement of Administration Policy provides the Administration's views on the District of Columbia Appropriations Bill, FY 2002, as passed by the Committee. I would like to reiterate the Administration's appreciation for the manner in which the Congress has worked to consider the FY 2002 appropriations bills. The Administration looks forward to working with the Congress to ensure the policy and program content of each of the thirteen appropriations bills is acceptable to the President and that the bill totals are within the recently agreed upon aggregate funding level of $686 billion.
The Administration appreciates that the Committee bill has provided funding consistent with the President's request and has taken steps to provide $13 million in funds to the District of Columbia for preparation of an emergency security plan. It is possible that additional programs funded within this bill may have modified requirements as a consequence of the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001. On September 21, 2001, the Administration transferred $6 million to the District of Columbia for response activities from funds the Congress provided in the FY 2001 Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act for Recovery from and Response to Terrorist Attacks on the United States and will continue to review funding requirements. The Administration also recently asked the Congress to consider an additional $25 million for the needs of the District of Columbia -- for a total of $44 million.
The Administration also appreciates that the Senate, like the House, has retained the current law provision concerning Federal funding for abortions. The Administration is disappointed, however, that the Senate version of the bill modifies current law with respect to allowing local funds to be used for needle exchange, lobbying of Congress, and support of DC statehood and voting rights. The Administration is also disappointed that the bill failed to include the provision, requested by the Administration and included in the bill for the past three years, that would cap the award of plaintiffs' attorneys' fees in cases brought against the District of Columbia Public Schools under the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act.
  