
    The following listing includes the President's daily schedule and other items of general interest as announced by the White House Press Office during the period covered by this issue. Events and announcements printed elsewhere in the issue are not included.
October 30
The President returned to the White House after a weekend stay at Camp David, Md.
October 31
The President met at the White House with:--Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs;--senior White House staff members;--the Cabinet;--Secretary of Defense Harold Brown and Dr. Brzezinski;--Gov. Robert W. Straub of Oregon;--Robert D. Patridge, executive vice president and general manager, and other representatives of the National Rural Electric Cooperative Association;--Vice President Walter F. Mondale, Landon Butler, Deputy Assistant to the President, George Meany, president, and J. Lane Kirkland, secretary-treasurer, AFL-CIO, to discuss energy and United States membership in the International Labor Organization.
November 1
The President met at the White House with:--Dr. Brzezinski;--Senator Alan Cranston of California;
--Secretary of Labor F. Ray Marshall;--Vice President Mondale, Adm. Stansfield Turner, Director of Central Intelligence and Dr. Brzezinski;--James T. Mcintyre, Jr., Acting Director of the Office of Management and Budget;--Douglas A. Fraser, president of the International Union of the United Auto Workers;--the Democratic congressional leadership.The White House announced that King Hassan II of Morocco has accepted the invitation of the President to pay a state visit to the United States, beginning with meetings in Washington on December 7 and 8.
November 2
The President met at the White House with:--Dr. Brzezinski;--Mrs. Carter, for lunch.
November 3
The President met at the White House with:--Dr. Brzezinski;--Members of the Georgia congressional delegation;--Charles L. Schultze, Chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers;--Secretary Brown.
November 4
The President met at the White House with:--Vice President Mondale, Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance, and Dr. Brzezinski;--Dr. Brzezinski;--Secretary Vance, Clark M. Clifford, the President's Personal Emissary to Greece, Turkey, and Cyprus, and Dr. Brzezinski, to discuss the situation in Cyprus;--Bert Lance, former Director of the Office of Management and Budget;--a group of representatives of environmental action groups.
  