
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
October 28
In the evening, the President had a telephone conversation with Ted Turner, owner of the Atlanta Braves baseball team, to congratulate the team on winning the 1995 World Series.
October 30
In the evening, the President and Hillary Clinton met with King Harald and Queen Sonja of Norway in the Diplomatic Reception Room.
The President announced his intention to nominate Patricia W. McNeil as Assistant Secretary for Vocational and Adult Education at the Department of Education.
The President has selected the following additional delegates to attend the White House Conference on Travel and Tourism on October 30-31: James D. Andrews; Dick J. Batchelor; Charles H.P. Duell; Donna Ferrara; Celso Guzman, Jr.; E. Marie Johnson; David Milenthal; Stephanie Neff; John O'Brien; Jose M. Perez; John A. Redhead; Diana Rosario; Elisa Maria Sanchez; Sean J. Shannon; and Thomas J. Shortell.
October 31
The President selected additional delegates Melanie Benjamin and Helen Cottingham to attend the White House Conference on Travel and Tourism on October 30-31.
November 1
In the morning, the President briefly attended the Vice President's meeting with Ulster Unionist Party leader David Trimble to discuss the Northern Ireland peace process.
In the afternoon, the President met with congressional leaders.
The President accorded the personal rank of Ambassador to Philip Bates Taylor III in his capacity as the head of the U.S. delegation to the Inter-American Council for Education, Science, and Culture and the Inter-American Economic and Social Council.
November 2
In the morning, the President went to the J.W. Marriott Hotel, where he met with the family of Maryland State trooper Edward A. Plank, Jr., who was killed by a suspected drug runner on October 17.
In the evening, the President attended a Clinton-Gore reception and dinner at the Sheraton Carlton Hotel.
The President announced his intention to appoint Jorge L. Bolanos as a member of the Enterprise for the Americas Board.
The White House announced that the President signed S. 227, the Digital Performance Right in Sound Recordings Act of 1995.
November 3
In the afternoon, the President attended the dedication of the memorial cairn commemorating the victims of the terrorist bombing of Pan American Airlines Flight 103 at Arlington National Cemetery.
  