
    NEW YORK, NY – Today, Michael R. Bloomberg announced that he will pursue the Democratic nomination for President of the United States, saying "I'm running for president to defeat Donald Trump and rebuild America. We cannot afford four more years of President Trump's reckless and unethical actions. He represents an existential threat to our country and our values. If he wins another term in office, we may never recover from the damage. The stakes could not be higher. We must win this election. And we must begin rebuilding America. I believe my unique set of experiences in business, government, and philanthropy will enable me to win and lead."
From the moment that President Trump emerged as the Republican nominee in 2016, Mike has been singularly focused on defeating him and stopping his dangerous ideas. Mike spoke out against Trump as a candidate at the Democratic National Convention in 2016 and helped win 21 Democratic Congressional seats in the 2018 midterm election to win back the House. Just last cycle, Mike helped Democrats flip the Virginia House and Senate, giving them full control of state government for the first time in a generation.
An entrepreneur, mayor, and philanthropist, Mike has built a career following data, bringing people together, and putting progress over partisanship. He's a proven leader with an unbeatable track record in creating jobs and implementing progressive policies that make a difference in people's lives. Mike is currently leading multiple national efforts to tackle the biggest challenges facing America, including gun safety, climate change, and public health. He founded Everytown for Gun Safety, the broadest and most impactful coalition of Americans fighting for common-sense gun laws, and recently launched Beyond Carbon, the most comprehensive climate change initiative in United States history. Mike has given away $10 billion to charitable causes, and Bloomberg Philanthropies works in 510 cities and 129 countries across the world to ensure better, longer lives for the greatest number of people.
Mike will not accept donations and will self-fund his campaign, as he did for all three of his successful mayoral runs.
  