
    The President today announced his intention to appoint the following individuals to be members of the National Advisory Committee on Oceans and Atmosphere. The President also announced that he intends to designate Mr: Knauss as Chairman and Mr. Singer as Vice Chairman.
Fitzgerald Remiss is president of Fitzgerald & Co. and vice president of Golden Crescent Petroleum, Inc., in Richmond, Va. He has served as a consultant to the Department of Commerce (extended fisheries jurisdiction) in 1976-77 and to the Department of Defense (international security affairs) in 1973. He was on the board of directors of the James River Corp. of Virginia. He served in the Virginia House of Delegates in 1955-59 and the Virginia Senate in 1960-67. He attended the University of Virginia. Mr. Remiss is married, has two children, and resides in Richmond, Va. He was born October 2, 1922, in Richmond. He would succeed Evelyn F. Murphy.
Carl Franklin Brady, Sr., is president, ERA Helicopters, Inc., in Anchorage, Alaska. He operated the first commercial helicopter in Alaska in 1948. He has served as president of the Helicopter Association of America and is past president of the Greater Anchorage Chamber of Commerce. He served in the Army Air Corps during World War II and the Alaska House of Representatives and State Senate. Mr. Brady is married, has three children, and resides in Anchorage, Alaska. He was born October 29, 1919, in Chelsea, Okla. He would succeed Charles H. Warren.
John A. Knauss is provost for marine affairs at the University of Rhode Island, Kingston, R.I. He was appointed a member of the National Advisory Committee on Oceans and Atmosphere in 1977, was appointed Vice President in 1979, and is currently serving as Acting Chairman. He was a member of the Presidential Commission on Marine Sciences Engineering and Resources in 1967-68. Dr. Knauss organized the first National Sea Grant Conference in 1965 and worked on passage of the sea grant legislation in 1966. Since 1962 he has been dean of Graduate School of Oceanography, University of Rhode Island. He graduated from MIT (B.S.); University of Michigan (M.S.) and University of California (Ph.D.). He is married, has two children, and resides in Saunderstown, R.I. He was born September 1, 1925, in Detroit, Mich.
Vernon E. Scheid has been professor of mineral economics in the department of mining engineering at the Mackay School of Mines, University of Nevada, since 1972. For more than 20 years (1951-72), Dr. Scheid was dean of the Mackay School of Mines. He was chairman and director of the Nevada Oil and Gas Conservation Commission, director of the Nevada Mining Analytical Laboratory, and director of the Nevada Bureau of Mines and Geology. He graduated from the Johns Hopkins University and the University of Idaho. He is married, has two children, and resides in Reno, Nev. He was born September 5, 1906, in Baltimore, Md. He would succeed John Arthur Biggs.
S. Fred Singer is professor, department of environmental sciences, University of Virginia, a position he has held since 1971. He was Deputy Assistant Administrator, Environmental Protection Agency, in 1970-71; Deputy Assistant Secretary for Scientific Programs, Department of the Interior, in 1967-70; professor of atmospheric science and dean, School of Environmental and Planetary Sciences, University of Miami, in 1964-67; Director, National Weather Satellite Center, U.S. Weather Bureau, in 1962-64; and associate professor and professor, physics department, University of Maryland, in 1963-64. He graduated from Ohio State University and Princeton University. Dr. Singer is married, has three children, and resides in Alexandria, Va. He was born September 27, 1924, in Vienna, Austria. He would succeed Louis J. Battan.
  