
    Says our generation must be the one that commits to halting global warming
New Orleans, Louisiana – Today, Senator John Edwards delivered the keynote address on his plan to stop global warming at a National Day of Climate Action rally sponsored by Step It Up in New Orleans. Organized by students from Tulane University, the Gulf Restoration Network, Alliance for Affordable Energy and the Sierra Club, the rally began at the ArtEgg building in Central City and concluded with a "second line" parade to the Superdome lead by the Da Truth Brass Band and the Camel Toe Steppers.
New Orleans City Council member Shelley Midura introduced Edwards, who spoke about his plans to halt global warming, achieve energy independence and jumpstart a new energy economy.
"Our generation must be the one that commits to halting global warming." said Edwards. "If we don't act now, it will be too late. Our generation must be the one that says 'yes' to renewable fuels and ends forever our dependence on foreign oil. Our generation must be the one that accepts responsibility for conserving natural resources and demands the tools to do it. And our generation must be the one that builds the New Energy Economy. It won't be easy, but it is time to ask the American people to be patriotic about something other than war."
This marks Edwards' second appearance at a Step It Up rally
Edwards' has called for addressing global warming by:

Capping greenhouse gas pollution starting in 2010 with a cap-and-trade system, and reducing it by 20 percent by 2020 and 80 percent by 2050, as the latest science says is needed to avoid the worst impacts of global warming.
Leading the world to a new climate treaty that commits other countries
Creating a $13 billion a year New Energy Economy Fund by auctioning off the right to emit greenhouse gas pollution and repealing subsidies for big oil companies. The fund will support U.S. research and development in energy technology, help entrepreneurs start new businesses, invest in new carbon-capture and efficient automobile technology and help Americans conserve energy.
Meeting the demand for more electricity through efficiency for the next decade, instead of producing more electricity.

As part of the campaign's "American Heroes Week," Edwards traveled to Louisiana to honor the people of New Orleans. This morning, Edwards was joined by supporters and other Habitat for Humanity volunteers in New Orleans' Upper 9th Ward for a day of rebuilding the area devastated by Hurricanes Katrina and Rita.
  