
    
  Santorum Stands As Only GOP Presidential Candidate With A Clear Track Record and Policy Agenda On Dealing With Iran

Spartanburg, SC - Former Senator Rick Santorum (R-PA) released a new radio ad about the looming threat of a nuclear Iran and a detailed plan on how the Santorum Administration will address this terrorist state.
During his time in elected office, Rick Santorum was the national leader and ahead of the curve on identifying and proposing real solutions to deal with the threat of a nuclear Iran:

Served on the Senate Armed Services Committee for 8 years, where he worked to transform the military from a Cold War force into one prepared to deal with the threats of today and tomorrow;
Author of the Iran Freedom and Support Act, which imposed real sanctions on the Iranian regime and authorized $100 million in annual funding for pro-democracy movements within Iran; and
Author of the Syria Accountability Act to combat the threat Syria posed to Israel.

Compare this track-record with President Barack Obama, who naively and cavalierly once declared Iran as a "tiny country" that did not pose a serious threat. However, this week's report by the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) now shows that these radical Islamists are on the verge of having a nuclear weapon.

RADIO AD SCRIPT: "DISASTER"
To Listen To "Disaster":
http://www.ricksantorum.com/blog/2011/11/listen-rick-santorums-newest-radio-ad-iran
NARRATOR: "Some say Barack Obama is a disaster. The truth, he'd have to dramatically improve to be considered a disaster. And now, a new report exposes how Iran is moving rapidly to develop a nuclear weapon and once again Obama has no plan. Unfortunately, the Republican presidential candidates aren't talking about Iran either, except one: Rick Santorum. But it's not surprising, Rick Santorum served on the Armed Services Committee for 8 years and he wrote tough legislation to help stop Iran's growing aggression. Even Newt Gingrich said no one has done more than Santorum to alert America to the dangers posed by Iran. To read Rick Santorum's plan on what we must do to stop the growing threat to America from Iran, visit ricksantorum.com. Barack Obama, proving everyday - experience matters. Paid for by Rick Santorum for President."
SANTORUM:"I'm Rick Santorum, and I approve this message."
  