
    The Government of the United States of America and the Government of Japan welcome the renewed international attention and commitment to achieve the peace and security of a world without nuclear weapons and confirm their determination to realize such a world. They welcome, in this context, the recent United Nations Security Council (UNSC) Summit on Nuclear Non-Proliferation and Nuclear Disarmament and UNSC Resolutions 1540 and 1887, as well as the resolution of the Government of Japan, co-sponsored by the Government of the United States, to the United Nations General Assembly entitled "Renewed determination towards the total elimination of nuclear weapons."
Recognizing the challenge to achieve total elimination of nuclear weapons, the Government of the United States and the Government of Japan plan to work actively to create conditions for achieving this objective. They express their determination to take the following practical steps on nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation, in a way that promotes international stability and security while ensuring that those steps do not in any way diminish the national security of Japan or the United States of America and its allies.
Nuclear Disarmament
The Government of the United States continues to seek early conclusion of a START follow-on treaty through negotiations with the Russian Federation. The Government of Japan welcomes the progress made in the negotiations and expresses its expectation for early agreement. The Government of the United States and the Government of Japan call upon states that hold nuclear weapons to respect the principles of transparency, verifiability and irreversibility in the process of nuclear disarmament. The Government of the United States is committed to reducing the role of nuclear weapons in its national security strategy, and the Government of the United States and the Government of Japan urge other states that hold nuclear weapons to do the same.
Nuclear Non-Proliferation/Peaceful Uses of Nuclear Energy
The Government of the United States and the Government of Japan reaffirm the importance of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) and plan to cooperate so that the 2010 NPT Review Conference succeeds in strengthening the Treaty, reaffirming its central role in the international non-proliferation regime and recommending realistic and achievable goals to strengthen each of the NPT's three pillars: nuclear non-proliferation, the peaceful uses of nuclear energy, and nuclear disarmament. This includes, inter alia, measures to strengthen the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) safeguards, to prevent abuse of the NPT's withdrawal provision, and to establish multilateral approaches to the nuclear fuel cycle that can be widely accepted. The Government of Japan welcomes the intention of the Government of the United States to pursue ratification of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty (CTBT), and the Government of the United States and the Government of Japan plan to cooperate to achieve the early entry into force of the CTBT. The Government of the United States and the Government of Japan are confident that their security alliance will be enhanced by the entry into force of the CTBT and the reinvigoration of the international nonproliferation regime. They are also determined to pursue the immediate commencement of negotiations on, and early conclusion of, a Fissile Material Cut-off Treaty. The Government of the United States and the Government of Japan intend to work together and with other countries to explore ways to enhance a new framework for civil nuclear cooperation, including assurances of fuel supply, so that countries can access peaceful nuclear power without increasing the risks of proliferation, and agree that cradle-to-grave nuclear fuel management could be one important element of the framework.
The Government of the United States and the Government of Japan declare that it remains vital for North Korea and Iran to uphold and adhere to their respective international obligations. As demonstrated by its recent missile launches and nuclear test, North Korea's pursuit of nuclear weapons remains a major threat to peace and stability in Northeast Asia and the entire international community. The Government of the United States and the Government of Japan reaffirm their commitment to the irreversible and verifiable denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula and to the goals of the September 2005 Joint Statement. They stress that the Six Party Talks remain the most effective framework to achieve these goals and they urge North Korea to return immediately to the Six Party Talks without precondition. Both governments agree to fully implement UNSC Resolutions 1718 and 1874 and urge all UN member states to do the same.
Iran's nuclear activities, in particular the recent disclosure of Iran's construction of a new facility near Qom intended for enrichment, have reinforced the international community's concern regarding the nature of its nuclear program. The Government of the United States and the Government of Japan stress that Iran has the responsibility to restore international confidence in this regard. They will not allow the global non-proliferation regime to be endangered. They reaffirm their commitment to seek a comprehensive, long-term solution through dialogue and negotiations based on UNSC resolutions, and express their firm commitment to pursue a dual-track approach to achieve this objective.
The Government of the United States and the Government of Japan plan to cooperate to ensure that the IAEA continues to have the resources, authorities, and verification capabilities necessary to carry out its essential mandate. They plan to promote efforts to gain universal adherence to the Additional Protocol, which in their shared view should be the international standard for verification, and to encourage peaceful uses of nuclear energy that adhere to the highest standards for nuclear safeguards, security, and safety. They welcome, in this context, Ambassador Amano's election to become the Director General of the IAEA in December.
The Government of the United States and the Government of Japan intend to expand nuclear nonproliferation, safeguards, and security cooperation that may include areas such as nuclear measurement and detection technologies, nuclear forensics, human resource development, training and infrastructure assistance for countries interested in nuclear energy, and coordination of our respective Member State support programs to IAEA safeguards.
Nuclear Security
The Government of the United States and the Government of Japan pledge to cooperate for the success of the 2010 Nuclear Security Summit hosted by the Government of the United States, and to promote regional efforts to strengthen nuclear security. In this regard, the Government of Japan will host a nuclear security conference for Asian countries in Tokyo in January 2010. The Government of the United States welcomes this effort, as well as the GOJ's hosting of the next preparatory meeting for the Summit in December.
The Government of the United States and the Government of Japan intend to cooperate for the full implementation of UNSC Resolution 1540, promotion of the Global Initiative to Combat Nuclear Terrorism, expansion and extension of the G8 Global Partnership, and strengthening of the Proliferation Security Initiative (PSI) and further cooperation under the Megaports Initiative. Recognizing the continuing threat of nuclear terrorism, the two governments reaffirm their commitment to ensuring that civil nuclear materials and facilities receive the highest levels of physical protection. They also pledge their support for efforts to secure all vulnerable nuclear material around the world within four years.
  