
    Pool Reports by Shelby Talcott, The Daily Caller 



Sent:
Reports:




November 30, 202111:26

VP Pool Report #1: Gathering 
Good morning, I'll be your pooler for the VP's swearing-in of two ambassadors — Jonathan Kaplan (Singapore) and David Cohen (Canada). Your pooler was COVID tested and pool is gathering/heading over to the event, which will take place in the Ceremonial office, as of 11:26am.



November 30, 202111:40

VP Pool Report #2: Awaiting VP 
Pool entered into the Ceremonial Office at 11:35am and we are awaiting the VP. Your pooler will provide quotes and color as necessary once the swearing-in begins.



November 30, 202112:02

VP Pool Report #3: Kaplan Swearing-in, Background 
VP entered the Ceremonial office at 11:57am with Jonathan Kaplan (Singapore) and his guests. Kaplan is being sworn in first, followed by David Cohen (Canada).
Samantha Kaplan (daughter), is holding the book for the first swearing-in. She's wearing an oversized light colored suit and the VP is in a grey suit.
There are a number of people in the room behind the pool, and there was a round of applause after Kaplan's swearing-in, with the VP excitedly declaring "Congratulations!"
The group and VP posed for a quick photo and they all left the room at 11:58am. We are awaiting the second swearing-in.
Passing along from the VPs office, details of guests along with the book for each ambassador:
Amb. Kaplan

Karen Doff, partner
Samantha Kaplan, daughter
Sarah Geackel, niece
Tim Lis, friend
Sheryl Gerard, friend
Amb. Kaplan book: copy of the Constitution


Amb. Cohen guests:

Rhonda R. Cohen (spouse)
Arthur S. Cohen (father)
Nancy S. Cohen (sister)

 Amb. Cohen book: Hebrew Bible and a copy of the Constitution


November 30, 202112:15

VP Pool Report #4: Cohen swearing-in 
VP re-entered the room at 12:08pm with the second Amb. Cohen (Canada) and his guests. Rhonda R. Cohen (spouse) is holding the books for this swearing-in.
The VP gestured over Amb. Cohen's father, who came in with a walker and was helped by Cohen's sister, before beginning the swearing-in. The VP again gave a big "congratulations!" and then said something inaudible to the father.
"And so it begins!" The VP said after taking a photo with the group.
VP left the room at 12:09 and the ambassador and his guests followed at 12:10. VP did not respond to a question about what measures the administration will taking at the southern border to combat Omicron.
Reminder from VP office of Amb. Cohen's book and guests:
Amb. Cohen guests:

Rhonda R. Cohen (spouse)
Arthur S. Cohen (father)
Nancy S. Cohen (sister)

Amb. Cohen book: Hebrew Bible and a copy of the Constitution
That's all from me for today. If anyone needs the Otter please feel free to ping me, though it was the same standard swearing-in for each event.




  