
    WASHINGTON, DC – Today, President Barack Obama announced his intent to appoint the following individuals to key Administration posts:
•      Bob J. Archuleta - Member, Board of Visitors to the United States Military Academy
•      Travis Morrison - Member, Board of Visitors to the United States Military Academy
•      Admiral Ronne Froman, USN (Ret) - Member, Board of Visitors to the United States Naval Academy
•      Sachin Dev Pavithran - Member, Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board
President Obama said, "These dedicated individuals bring a wealth of experience and talent to their new roles and I am proud to have them serve in this Administration. I look forward to working with them in the months and years to come."
President Obama announced his intent to appoint the following individuals to key Administration posts:
Bob J. Archuleta, Appointee for Member, Board of Visitors to the United States Military Academy
Bob J. Archuleta is a Los Angeles County Commissioner of Military Veterans Affairs, a post he has held since 1989. Mr. Archuleta was elected to the City Council of Pico Rivera, California in 2007, and also serves as Mayor. He has been a member of the United States Army Advisory Board for Military Recruitment in Los Angeles County since 1989. He was the Chairman of the U.S. Small Business Administration Advisory Committee on Veterans Business Affairs from 2003 to 2004, and was a member of the Department of Veterans Affairs Advisory Committee on Minority Veterans from 2002 to 2003. Mr. Archuleta was a reserve police officer and reserve detective with the Montebello Police Department from 1988 to 1998. He served in the U.S. Army from 1963 to 1966. Mr. Archuleta graduated from Rio Hondo College Police Academy.
Travis Morrison, Appointee for Member, Board of Visitors to the United States Military Academy
Travis Morrison is an entrepreneur who has owned several construction materials businesses in southern Missouri since 1990. From 1980 to 1986, he served in the Missouri General Assembly. During that time, he worked in private practice as a certified public accountant. Mr. Morrison served on active duty as an infantry officer in the U.S. Army from 1971 to 1976, retiring as a Lieutenant Colonel in the Army Reserve in 2008. He has served on the boards of the Missouri State Employees Retirement System, the Ozarks Medical Center, and West Plains Bank and Trust. Mr. Morrison received a B.S. from the United States Military Academy at West Point and an M.A. from the University of Southern California, Los Angeles.
Admiral Ronne Froman, USN (Ret), Appointee for Member, Board of Visitors to the United States Naval Academy
Admiral Ronne Froman is the Chairman and CEO of REBOOT, a non-profit organization that provides behavioral training and employment assistance to veterans transitioning to civilian life. In addition, Admiral Froman is the President of the Board of the Monarch School Project, a K-12 school for the homeless in San Diego. She served as the City of San Diego's Chief Operating Officer from 2005 to 2007, and was the Chief of Business Operations for the San Diego Unified School District from 2001 to 2003. Admiral Froman served 31 years in the U.S. Navy, retiring as Director of Ashore Readiness for the Chief of Naval Operations. Admiral Froman received a B.A. from Seton Hill College.
Sachin Dev Pavithran, Appointee for Member, Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board
Sachin Dev Pavithran is Program Director of the Utah Assistive Technology Program at Utah State University's Center for Persons with Disabilities, a position he has held since 2011. Before serving as Program Director, he served in a variety of other roles at the Center, including Program Coordinator and Disability Policy Analyst, since joining in 2002. Mr. Pavithran has more than 12 years of experience as a consultant on disability police and developing and training users of assistive technology and accessible websites. He serves on the Association of Assistive Technology Act Programs National Board, the Utah State Rehabilitation Council, the Research and Development Committee of the National Federation of the Blind, and the National Multicultural Council of the Association of University Centers for Disabilities. In 2007, the National Federation of the Blind awarded him the Kenneth Jernigan Scholarship. Mr. Pavithran received a B.A., B.S., and an M.S. from Utah State University.
  