
    California Congressman and Congressional Hispanic Caucus Member Adds Name to List of More Than 150 California Elected Officials to Endorse Harris
Today, Congressman Salud Carbajal, representative from California's 24th District, announced his support for Senator Kamala Harris' presidential bid following the Atlanta debate where she showed that she has the ability to go toe to toe with Donald Trump and to rebuild the Obama coalition necessary to unify the party and win. Carbajal is the fourth member of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus (CHC) to support Senator Harris, including CHC vice chairs Ruben Gallego and Nanette Barragan, more than any other candidate in the field.
Prior to his congressional career, Carbajal served in the United States Marine Corps Reserve for eight years and was a Santa Barbara County Supervisor for 12 years. As a member of the Armed Services Committee, he has worked successfully to bring aid to the service members and veterans of California by securing $1 million for the Santa Barbara Veterans Treatment Courts, introducing legislation to combat veteran homelessness, and continuing to fight for service member health and safety. Carbajal immigrated to the United States as a young child and has been a leading advocate for immigration reform and protecting the environment. The son of a farmworker, Carbajal recently led the charge to introduce the Farm Workforce Modernization Act to provide lasting reforms to the immigration system that address workforce shortage in the agriculture industry. Carbajal's Harris endorsement follows that of the 10,000-member United Farm Workers Union at the California Democratic Convention last weekend.
"As a military veteran, I know firsthand the importance of having a Commander in Chief who is dedicated to U.S. service members and veterans," said Carbajal. "From her bold plan to expand health care and housing assistance for veterans to her leadership on immigration issues, Kamala is acutely aware of the work necessary to build an America truly reflective of our values. I have seen, up close, her work for the people of California, I have worked with her often to provide for our state, and America saw yet again on the debate stage that Kamala is the best candidate to take on Donald Trump. I know she will bring her same tenacity to fight for all Americans."
"I'm honored to earn Salud's support today," said Harris. "Salud has been a tireless champion for California's veterans. I am proud of the work we've done together to protect California's public lands, and I look forward to continuing that critical work, and more, with him from the White House."
Carbajal joins over 150 California elected officials including Governor Gavin Newsom, U.S. Representatives Barbara Lee, Ted Lieu, Julia Brownley, and Jim Costa.
  