
    STATEMENT OF ADMINISTRATION POLICY
(House Floor)(Sponsors: Livingston (R), Louisiana; Walsh (R), New York)
This Statement of Administration Policy provides the Administration's views on H.R. 2546, the District of Columbia Appropriations Bill, FY 1996, as reported by the House Appropriations Committee.
The Administration strongly objects to the $256 million reduction that the Committee would require the District to take in FY 1996 from the level estimated by the Financial Responsibility and Management Assistance Authority (the Authority) based on deliberations with the Mayor and District Council in September. A reduction of this magnitude would most likely result in substantial interruptions in program operations and service delivery. The Authority was established in April to assist the District in balancing its budget and improving its management structure over time. Working with the District, the Authority is committed to bringing the District's budget into balance, but within a reasonable timeframe of two to three years. It would be inappropriate for Congress to override the considered judgment of the Authority on the District's budget, a responsibility that the Congress gave to the Authority in April.
The Administration strongly opposes the abortion language of the bill, which would alter current law by prohibiting the use of both Federal and District funds to pay for abortions except in those cases where the life of the mother is endangered or in situations of rape or incest. The Administration objects to the prohibition on the use of local funds as an unwarranted intrusion into the affairs of the District. In addition, the Committee bill would prohibit any abortions from being performed by "any facility owned or operated" by the District, except in cases Where the life of the mother is endangered "or in cases of forcible rape reported within 30 days to a law enforcement agency, or cases of incest reported to a law enforcement agency or child abuse agency prior to the performance of the abortion." The Administration objects to this provision because it would prevent women who need legal abortion services from exercising that choice at a hospital or clinic owned or operated by the District, even if they were using their own funds. Furthermore, the Administration objects to the language that purports to require women who are victims of rape to prove that the crime was "forcible" and the language adding reporting requirements both for rape and for children who are victims of incest. These provisions are all designed to preclude or discourage women who need legal abortions from obtaining them.
For all of the reasons cited above, if the bill were presented to the President as reported by the Committee, the President would veto the bill.
The Administration understands that an amendment may be offered to incorporate the proposed "District of Columbia School Reform Act of 1995" into this bill. The Administration is strongly opposed to language in the legislation that would authorize the use of Federal taxpayer funds to pay for private school vouchers.
The Administration opposes any legislative language that would eliminate the tax exempt status of the National Education Association. Such action would amount to a partisan political move to single out one organization for special punitive treatment, with no programmatic justification.
Additionally, the Administration has concerns regarding the request that the Authority review 28 amendments, some of Which were originally introduced in the Committee's first mark-up on September 19, 1995. First, the amendments infringe on Home Rule and represent congressional micromanagement of the District government. Many of the proposed amendments involve issues that the Mayor and the City Council should work together to resolve or study, such as the effect of the Displaced Workers Protection Act on the District government or the economic impact of rent control and the feasibility of decontrolling units. The Authority was specifically mandated to assist in District budgetary and management reform. The Authority's role should not involve the review of policy issues unrelated to improving the District's financial condition.
The Administration supports the Committee's action to approve $28 million for a new financial management system for the District of Columbia. The District should immediately develop and implement an improved financial management information system. The District's current financial information and internal controls are weak, making it difficult for city officials and managers to track expenditures and to know how much is owed.
  