
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

On November 11, 1889, Elisha P. Ferry, the first Governor of Washignton State, received a telegram from President Benjamin Harrison announcing that Washington had become the 42nd State in the Union. A story in the Tacoma Daily News the following day reflected the pride and joy felt by the people of the new State: Occupying, as it does, the very richest section of the whole country, with its wealth of inland shores lined with timber enough to supply the world, with its rich veins of valuable ores, with its valuable agricultural lands and its unparalleled scenery for beauty and grandeur, combined with its unequalled climate, it starts out on its life of statehood with not only the eyes of this land, but the whole world upon it.
The area now known as Washington State had been inhabited by Native Americans for thousands of years. However, it was not until Captain Cook explored the region in 1778 and returned with tales of its land, timer, and fur that it became known to the rest of the world. More explorers followed Cook's path, and, in 1804, the young United States of America sent out an expedition led by Lewis and Clark to explore the area. In subsequent years, missionaries and pioneers journeyed across the continent to settle in the fertile territory charted by Lewis and Clark, beginning a process of growth and discovery that has continued to this day.
In 1889, Washington State was home to 350,000 people -- fewer people than currently live in Seattle, now its largest city. During the past 100 years, the State has grown to a population of more than 4 million. Today's residents, like the pioneers before them, have been able stewards of the State's vast forests, clear waters, grand mountains, and abundant wildlife.
Since achieving statehood in 1889, Washington has also witnessed tremendous economic development. Washington State has become a leader in aviation, computer software, shipbuilding, trade, forestry, agriculture, and the production of energy. The Puget Sound area flourishes as a gateway to the Pacific. Eastern Washington boasts rich soil that has made the State famous worldwide for its apples and many other crops.
In recognition of the importance of Washington's contributions to the United States and in commemoration of its Centennial, the Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 209, has designated November 11, 1989, as "Washington Centennial Day" and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this day.
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim November 11, 1989, as Washington Centennial Day.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this ninth day of November, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-nine, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fourteenth.

GEORGE BUSH
  