
    "'Romney's being a hypocrite on this issue … I did not receive any mandate, any communication, anything at all from him about this. If it's so important to him why didn't he have the state police enforcing it?'" – Joseph Curtatone, Mayor of Somerville, MA (2004-Present)
Mitt Romney Let Illegal Immigrants Flood His State And Rewarded Sanctuary Cities With State Aid
Pew Hispanic Center Indicated That Between 2002 And 2004, Massachusetts Became A "New Large State" For Unauthorized Migrant Population, With A Total Of 200,000-250,000 Illegal Immigrants. (Jeffrey S. Passel, "Unauthorized Migrants: Numbers And Characteristics," Pew Hispanic Center, 6/14/05)
• Massachusetts Was One Of Just Six States To Earn This Label. (Jeffrey S. Passel, "Unauthorized Migrants: Numbers And Characteristics," Pew Hispanic Center, 6/14/05)
Romney's Last Minute Agreement With Federal Government To Allow State Troopers To Enforce Immigration Laws Was Rescinded Before It Was Ever Implemented. "While it is technically true that Romney 'signed an agreement with the federal government to allow state troopers to enforce federal immigration laws,' he only did so in the closing weeks of his term, and the program never actually went into effect because it was rescinded by Romney's successor even before the state troopers began training." (Philip Klein, "Sanctuary Cities in Romney's Massachusetts," American Spectator's Blog, www.spectator.com, 8/9/07)
Romney Couldn't Even Enforce Immigration Laws In State Government Payrolls. "A Globe analysis of nine recent public works projects … revealed that of 242 workers on weekly payroll lists, more than a third appeared to lack legitimate Social Security numbers. On one of the payrolls reviewed, for masonry work on the UMass dormitory project, nearly two-thirds of the contractor's 87 workers had bogus or questionable Social Security numbers. The numbers used by the workers in many cases appeared obviously fraudulent. One laborer who helped build the new jail in Billerica submitted a number that should have immediately raised eyebrows: 666-66-6666. Some numbers belonged to people who were long-deceased, the Globe found. Others were matched to people who live out of state and had no idea their numbers had been appropriated. The findings, though a small snapshot of the vast number of public projects undertaken throughout the state, suggest how the use of undocumented workers has extended into almost every corner of the economy. … A spokesman for Governor Mitt Romney said it was unsurprising state money was used to pay undocumented immigrants. 'The governor is not surprised that our current immigration laws are a mess,' said Romney spokesman Eric Fehrnstrom." (Jonathan Saltazman and Yvonne Abraham, "Fake IDs Are Rife At State Job Sites," The Boston Globe, 6/18/06)
• Or In His Own Driveway. "The [illegal immigrant lawn] worker in Copado said a state trooper stationed in Romney's driveway once inquired about his immigration status, about six months ago. Saenz, the company owner, who was at the property at the time, told the trooper that the worker was in the country legally, but had forgotten his papers, the worker told the Globe. The trooper never inquired again, said the worker, who repeatedly returned to the governor's property but avoided the trooper. Saenz told reporters he did not recall the incident." (Jonathan Saltzman, "Illegal Immigrants Toiled For Governor Guatemalans Say Firm Hired Them," The Boston Globe, 12/1/06)
As Governor, Mitt Romney Recommended Over $408 Million In State Aid To Massachusetts Sanctuary Cities Cambridge, Orleans, Somerville, Brookline, Brewster And Lexington. (Commonwealth Of Massachusetts Fiscal Affairs Division Website, http://www.mass.gov/bb/, Accessed 8/8/07)
• During Romney's Term, Proposed State Aid To These Sanctuary Cities Increased 4.07%, From $103,218,421 In FY2004 To $107,419,246 In FY2007. (Commonwealth Of Massachusetts Fiscal Affairs Division Website, "Governor's Recommended Budgets FY2004 To FY2007, http://www.mass.gov/bb/, Accessed 8/8/07)
CAMBRIDGE
In May 2006, Cambridge, MA Reaffirmed Status As Sanctuary City, Instructing City Employees Not To Inquire About Immigration Status When Using City Services. ("City Council Makes Cambridge A 'Sanctuary City,'" The Associated Press, 5/9/06)
• Cambridge, MA Has Been Sanctuary City Since 1985. (Council Resolution No. 4, City Council, City of Cambridge, Adopted 4/8/85)
City Of Cambridge's Resolution Is Full-Throated Endorsement Of Illegal Immigration. "[T]he City of Cambridge rejects the use of the word 'illegal' to describe human beings and the use of the word 'aliens' to describe immigrants and hereby adopts the language 'undocumented' when referring to those who do not have federally recognized resident status and 'immigrant' to refer to those who have migrated to the US from another country …" (Cambridge, MA, City Council, Policy Order Resolution, http://www.cambridgema.gov/cityClerk/PolicyOrder.cfm?item_id=13247, 5/8/06, Accessed 8/11/07)
Cambridge Spokesman Laughed When Asked If Romney Ever Made Effort To Challenge City's Sanctuary Policy. "Earlier today, I spoke with John Clifford, a press spokesman for Cambridge Mayor Kenneth Reeves, and asked whether the city remembers any pressure, financial or otherwise, applied by the Romney administration asking them to change their sanctuary status when it was up for renewal last year. 'Absolutely not,' Clifford responded. I followed up by asking whether the Democratic government of Cambridge had clashed with the Republican administration of Romney at any time during his term as governor. Clifford laughed. 'He never took on Cambridge, except out of state.'" (Philip Klein, "Sanctuary Cities in Romney's Massachusetts," The American Spectator, 8/9/07)
ORLEANS
In 2003, Town Of Orleans Passed Law Protecting Civil Liberties Of Citizens Of Orleans With Regard To Immigration Matters, Thus Making It "Sanctuary City." "Whereas the citizens of Orleans have a long and distinguished history of defending the liberties of the Colonies and the Constitution of the United States, in 1772 and 1773 (as the South Precinct of Eastham) protesting British violations of their rights and liberties, in 1776 vowing to 'defend [independence] with our lives,' later fighting in the Revolution, the War of 1812 including the Battle of Rock Harbor, the Civil War and Regional and World Wars and Conflicts … It Is Therefore Resolved and the Town Meeting is petitioned to forbid all local and non-local officials in Orleans, in the absence of probable cause of criminal activity, to the extent legally permissible: 1. Participating in or cooperating with any inquiry, investigation, surveillance or detention; and 2. Recording, using and keeping any intelligence information about persons and organizations in Orleans, including political views and media use, even if authorized by federal law enforcement officials acting under the cited or allied laws or executive orders. Intelligence information currently held shall be identified and disposed of at the direction of the Selectmen. 3. Enforcing immigration matters, and 4. Profiling based on race, ethnicity, citizenship, religion, or political values." (Town Of Orleans, "Annual & Special Town Meeting Warrants," 5/12/03)
SOMERVILLE
City Of Somerville Passed Resolution To Re-Affirm Its "Long-Standing Policies In Support Of All Immigrants." "Resolution: By Ald. Heuston, Desmond, Provost, Sullivan, Taylor, Pero, O'Donovan, Gewirtz, And Trane And The Mayor, That the City [Of Somerville] hereby re-affirms its long-standing policies in support of all immigrants, and expresses its support for comprehensive immigration reform that combines a path to permanent status for immigrants already here with the humane enforcement of our nation's borders." (City Of Somerville, "Minutes Of The Regular Meeting," http://www.ci.somerville.ma.us/CoS_Content/documents/minutes/05-11-06.pdf, 5/11/06, Accessed 8/11/07)
• Somerville, MA Has Been Sanctuary City Since 1987. (George P. Hassett, "Immigration Debate Reaches Somerville; Local Group to Lobby Aldermen to Reaffirm City's Sanctuary Status," The Somerville News, 7/7/07)
Somerville Mayor Called Romney "Hypocrite" On Immigration. "'Romney's being a hypocrite on this issue,' said Joseph Curtatone, the Democratic mayor of Somerville since 2004. 'I did not receive any mandate, any communication, anything at all from him about this. If it's so important to him why didn't he have the state police enforcing it?'" (Jake Tapper And Jan Simmonds, "Giuliani Vows To End Illegal Immigration," ABCNews.com, http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/Decision2008/story?id=3478474&page=1, 8/14/07, Accessed 11/5/07)
BROOKLINE
In 2006, Brookline Reaffirmed Its Status As Sanctuary City And Expanded Its Coverage To Include Illegal Immigrants From All Countries. "The Town of Brookline reaffirms its commitment as a Sanctuary Town, as declared by Town Meeting in November, 1985, and expands it now to include all undocumented immigrants from all countries[.]" (Resolution Reaffirming Sanctuary Status Of Undocumented Immigrants, Board Of Selectman, Town Of Brookline, 11/4/06)
• Brookline, MA Has Been Sanctuary City Since 1985. (Article 24, Board Of Selectman, Town Of Brookline, Adopted 11/85)
BREWSTER
Brewster Forbids "Local And Non-Local Officials" From "Enforcing Immigration Matters." "It Is Therefore Resolved and the Town Meeting is petitioned to forbid all local and non-local officials in Brewster, in the absence of probable cause of criminal activity, to the extent legally permissible, from … Enforcing immigration matters. Action: Adopted." (Article 28, Board Of Selectman, Town Of Brewster, Adopted 11/03)
• Brewster, MA Has Been Sanctuary City Since 2003. (Article 28, Board Of Selectman, Town Of Brewster, Adopted 11/03; Numbers USA Website, www.numbersusa.com, Accessed 10/31/07)
LEXINGTON
Lexington, MA Has Been A Sanctuary City Since Before 2004. "IT IS HEREBY RESOLVED that Lexington Town Meeting … [r]equest that the Board Of Selectmen require the Town Manager to direct the Police Department to … maintain its present practice of not enforcing immigration matters, which are the responsibility of the Department of Homeland Security, and not deny any town service on the basis of citizenship." (Article 42, "Patriot Act Resolution," Town Of Lexington, Adopted 4/12/04)
  