
    Dear Mr. Speaker: (Dear Mr. President:)
In accordance with Section 203 (b) (1) of the Trade Act of 1974, enclosed is a report to the Congress setting forth my determination to provide import relief for the U.S. High Carbon Ferrochromium Industry and explaining the reasons for my decision.
Sincerely,
JIMMY CARTER ,
IMPORT RELIEF—HIGH-CARBON FERROCHROME
As required under Section 203(b)(1) of the Trade Act of 1974, I am transmitting this report to Congress setting forth my decision with respect to high carbon ferrochromium covered by the affirmative finding on September 6, 1978, of the U.S. International Trade Commission (USITC) under Section 201(d) (1) of the Trade Act. As my action differs from that recommended by the USITC, I have included the reasons for my decisions.
After considering all relevant aspects of the case, including those set forth in Section 202(c) of the Trade Act of 1974, I have determined that import relief in the form of an increased tariff of 4¢ on any high carbon ferrochromium (HCF) entering the United States at less than a value of 38¢ per pound would be appropriate because:
(1) The additional duty on HCF would provide the domestic industry with the opportunity to operate at a reasonable rate of return.
(2) The additional duty on HCF would raise the U.S. import price to a level sufficient to minimize the likelihood that the EC minimum import price and Japan's duty paid import price would divert HCF exports to the U.S.
(3) The additional duty would protect the most competitive U.S. producers from bearing the burden of the current world oversupply situation while less efficient EC and Japanese producers are being protected.
(4) Since the volume of business involved is small, and prices substantially depressed, the inflationary impact would be minimized.
(5) The proposed remedy should minimize any adverse effect on foreign suppliers in, that shipments of high carbon ferrochromium entering the United States at not less than 40¢ per pound would not bear any additional duty.
  