
    
  Dr. Jeffrey Fugate supports Ted Cruz for President

HOUSTON, Texas — Presidential candidate Ted Cruz today announced the endorsement of Dr. Jeff Fugate, a prominent Independent Baptist pastor in Kentucky.
Dr. Jeffery J. Fugate became the pastor of Clays Mill Road Baptist Church in 1991, with 18 people attending his first service as pastor. Now, more than 2,000 people call Clays Mill Road Baptist Church their church home. He has led many outreach ministries, specifically serving as founder of Commonwealth Baptist College and Clays Mill Road Baptist Christian Academy, and has been instrumental in starting 28 new churches in Kentucky and other states.
"I am excited by the growing number of endorsements we are receiving from pastors," Cruz said. "Reagan coordinated strategically with Independent Baptists like Dr. Fugate, who has been leading congregants faithfully in Christian growth and personal revival for more than 20 years. We are grateful for the opportunity to work with so many Independent Baptists, of which there are about 3 million, to promote our shared values and reignite the promise of America."
Dr. Fugate was active in the recent election of Matt Bevin, Governor-elect of Kentucky. He serves as the editor of Christian Growth Magazine and is a published author and contributing writer for the Sword of the Lord Publishers, which includes a bi-weekly newspaper distributed in all 50 states. Dr. Fugate is the speaker on the daily Voice of the Appalachians radio broadcast, founded by Dr. B. R. Lakin. He has also authored numerous books and has a television ministry that covers several southern states. He preaches regularly at national conferences.
"Many pastors wait until the nominees for each party have been chosen before they begin their support, but we must not wait until the final quarter of the game to play," Fugate said. "What we desire as pastors and God-fearing Christians is to have a candidate who represents our biblical, moral, and social positions. Ted Cruz has a personal testimony of salvation, and he is not a part of the Washington Cartel, which has allowed our nation to become both financially indebted and increasingly less safe. His amazing resume and his brilliance and intelligence cannot be overlooked. I am honored to stand in support of his campaign for the presidency."
Dr. Fugate and his wife are the parents of 5 children. The family is also a Gospel singing group heard on radio and TV weekly across several southern states.
  