
    Trump Campaign Solidifies Florida Operation as Mr. Trump Surges in Local Polls
(New York, NY) November 24th, 2015 - Donald J. Trump today announced the addition of four staff members joining his operation in Florida as he continues to lead all state polls by wide, double-digit margins. Jennifer R. Locetta will serve as Deputy State Director, Ken Mayo has been named Director of Field Operations, John Ross Pughe is joining as the Southeast Regional Field Director, and Craig Bachler will serve as Director of Coalitions.
Mr. Trump stated, "I have created thousands of jobs and own some of the most iconic assets in the state. I love the people of Florida and I am proud to have such overwhelming support and a great staff in place. I look forward to visiting often and working with my team to share my vision to Make America Great Again."
Jennifer R. Locetta has an extensive background related to data organization and grassroots voter contacts. In 2012, she served as Statewide Data Director for the Republican Party of Florida and worked at the Romney for President Headquarters in Tampa.
After four years in the US Navy Ken Mayo began a political career spanning three decades. Most recently, Ken has held positions with American Majority in 2011, AFP in 2012-2013 as Florida's Manager of Field Operations, and Coalition for a Prosperous America (CPA is a national trade association). Additionally, Ken was recruited to be the National Coalitions Director for Convention of States Project.
John Pughe has been involved in Florida politics for more than a decade. He served as the Director of Community Affairs for the Northern Palm Beach County Chamber Commerce. Prior to joining the chamber, John served as Legislative Aide to State Representative George Moraitis. He also managed Fort Lauderdale City Commissioner Romney Rogers' municipal campaign and Representative Moraitis' bid for State House.
Craig Bachler is a well-known for his grassroots activism, as a volunteer and full time organizer of statewide and national campaigns. He previously served as the Florida Director of Field Operations for Rick Santorum for President, grassroots leader and organizer for Governor Rick Scott, and Pat Buchanan for President in 1992 and 1996 in New Hampshire.
The Trump Campaign announced Florida State Director Karen Giorno and Co-Chairs Joe Gruters and Susie Wiles last month. Mr. Trump has visited Florida numerous times throughout his campaign and will return to Sarasota for a rally on Saturday, November 28th.
  