
    Mary Anne Carter of Tennessee, to be Chairperson of the National Endowment for the Arts for a term of four years.
Ms. Carter was named acting Chairman of the National Endowment for the Arts in June 2018, after serving 18 months as the agency's senior deputy chairman. In that role, Ms. Carter managed the day-to-day operations, focusing her efforts on advancing the Endowment's mission to support artistic excellence and access to the arts for all Americans. Previously, Ms. Carter founded a consulting firm specializing in political and public affairs. She has participated in numerous campaigns as well as having twice worked in the United States Senate. As chief policy advisor to Governor Rick Scott of Florida, she oversaw the Office of Policy and Budget for the Nation's third largest State. Ms. Carter's commitment to the arts stems from the challenges faced by her child with dyslexia. Finding schools that employ the arts as a teaching method make the learning process both productive and enjoyable for her daughter.
Joseph V. Cuffari of Arizona, to be Inspector General of Homeland Security.
Dr. Cuffari is currently the policy advisor for Military and Veterans Affairs for Governor Doug Ducey of Arizona, and previously for Governor Jan Brewer. He served more than 40 years in the United States Air Force, on active duty in the Reserves, and in the Arizona Air National Guard. He began his military service after graduating from high school and enlisting in the United States Air Force in 1977. He served in a variety of leadership positions with the Air Force Office of Special Investigations (AFOSI) as well as with the Department of Defense Office of the Inspector General (OIG). He was a Commander with the AFOSI at MacDill Air Force Base, Florida; England Air Force Base, Louisiana; and Naples, Italy, with the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. In 1989, he received the AFOSI Outstanding Officer of the Year Award. He also served for more than 20 years in the Department of Justice (DOJ) in a multitude of roles dating back to 1993. In 2013, he retired from his position as Assistant Special Agent in Charge for the Office of the Inspector General in Tucson, Arizona. In other capacities, he has augmented the United States Senate and House Intelligence Committees and the DOJ Office of Overseas Prosecutorial Development. Dr. Cuffari earned a Ph.D. in philosophy and M.A. degrees in management. He received a B.S. degree in business administration & management information systems from the University of Arizona.
  