
    WASHINGTON, DC – Today, President Barack Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key Administration posts:
•      Deborah J. Jeffrey – Inspector General, Corporation for National and Community Service
•      Mark J. Mazur - Assistant Secretary for Tax Policy, Department of Treasury
The President also announced his intent to appoint the following individuals to key administration posts:
•      Janie Barrera – Member, President's Advisory Council on Financial Capability
•      Sherry Salway Black – Member, President's Advisory Council on Financial Capability
President Obama said, "These dedicated and accomplished individuals will be valued additions to my Administration as we tackle the important challenges facing America. I look forward to working with them in the months and years ahead."
President Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key Administration posts:
Deborah J. Jeffrey, Nominee for Inspector General, Corporation for National and Community Service
Deborah J. Jeffrey is a partner at Zuckerman Spaeder LLP. For more than twenty-five years, she has represented clients in civil and criminal investigations and in complex litigation and advised lawyers and law firms on matters of professional ethics and risk management. Her work has included designing, conducting, and supervising internal investigations for publicly traded companies, major non-governmental organizations and law firms. She has also represented government officials in criminal, civil, inspector general, and congressional investigations, among others. Before joining Zuckerman Spaeder as an associate in 1989, Ms. Jeffrey worked as an associate at Hogan & Hartson from 1986 to 1989. Ms. Jeffrey began her legal career as a law clerk to the Honorable Harrison L. Winter, former Chief Judge of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit. She serves as Vice Chair of the D.C. Court of Appeals Board on Professional Responsibility, which oversees the disciplinary system for attorneys barred in Washington, D.C., including hearing appeals in cases of attorney discipline. Ms. Jeffrey holds a B.A. in Political Science from Johns Hopkins University and a J.D. from Harvard Law School.
Mark J. Mazur, Nominee for Assistant Secretary for Tax Policy, Department of the Treasury
Mark J. Mazur is the Deputy Assistant Secretary for Tax Analysis at the Department of Treasury, a position he has held since 2009. From 2001 to 2009, he was Director of Research, Analysis, and Statistics of Income for the Internal Revenue Service. During the Clinton Administration, Mr. Mazur worked at the United States Department of Energy as the Acting Administrator of the Energy Information Administration (2000 – 2001) and Director of the Office of Policy and Chief Economist (1999 – 2000). Mr. Mazur was a Senior Director to the National Economic Council from 1995-1997 and a Senior Economist at the Council of Economic Advisors from 1993 to 1995. Mr. Mazur received an M.A and Ph.D. from Stanford University and a B.A. from Michigan State University.
President Obama announced his intent to appoint the following individuals to key Administration posts:
Janie Barrera, Appointee for Member, President's Advisory Council on Financial Capability
Janie Barrera is the founding president and Chief Executive Officer of ACCION Texas Inc. Created in 1994, ACCION Texas Inc. provides small loans and management training to individuals and small businesses in Texas and Louisiana. San Antonio Business Journal listed Ms. Barrera as one of "Twenty Defining Players: People Who Have Helped Shape the City." She also has served on many national, state and local boards, including the Federal Reserve Board's National Consumer Advisory Council. Ms. Barrera received a B.S. from Corpus Christi State University in Corpus Christi, Texas and an M.B.A. from the University of the Incarnate Word in San Antonio, Texas.
Sherry Salway Black, Appointee for Member, President's Advisory Council on Financial Capability
Sherry Salway Black is the Director of the Partnership for Tribal Governance at the National Congress of American Indians. She is the former Senior Vice President of First Nations Development Institute, a Native-led nonprofit organization that works to improve the economic condition of Native Americans through promoting business development and financial literacy. Ms. Black is a member of the Honoring Nations Board of Governors, a program established by the Harvard Project on American Indian Economic Development to celebrate, document, and disseminate outstanding success stories in governance among American Indian nations. She also serves on the boards of First Peoples Fund and the Johnson Scholarship Foundation. Ms. Black is a member of the Oglala Lakota Nation in Pine Ridge, South Dakota. Ms. Black earned her B.S. from East Stroudsburg University and her M.B.A. from the University of Pennsylvania's Wharton School of Business.
  