
    Today, The President Selected Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) Chairman Donald E. Powell To Be The Coordinator Of Federal Support For The Gulf Coast's Recovery And Rebuilding. Don Powell will serve as the Administration's primary point of contact with State and local governments, the private sector, and community leaders on long-term recovery and rebuilding plans. As Federal Coordinator, he will work with Congress and Federal departments and agencies to provide effective, integrated, and fiscally responsible support for Gulf Coast recovery.


    The Federal Coordinator Will Support State And Local Community Rebuilding Efforts. Don Powell will monitor the Federal government's support of rebuilding efforts carried out by State, local, and tribal governments, the private sector, and faith-based and other community humanitarian relief organizations. As Coordinator, he will report to the President through Department of Homeland Security Secretary Chertoff and will be responsible for developing specific goals and coordinating policies and programs for mid-term to long-term Federal recovery and rebuilding efforts.

The Federal Coordinator Will Focus On The Mid-Term To Long-Term Issues Surrounding Gulf Coast Recovery. Through the efforts of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) and Vice-Admiral Thad Allen, the Federal government has been working on short-term relief and recovery. Don Powell is expected to coordinate Federal involvement in support of State and local officials in the next phase of recovery on issues ranging from economic development to infrastructure rebuilding. As States and local communities begin to plan for rebuilding schools, highways, communities, levees, and other infrastructure, he will serve as a primary point of contact with the Federal government.

By Executive Order, The President Is Also Establishing The Gulf Coast Recovery And Rebuilding Council. Based within the Executive Office of the President, the Council will be chaired by National Economic Council Chairman Al Hubbard, and its members will consist of Cabinet members and other Administration officials.

The Gulf Coast Recovery And Rebuilding Council Will Work On Policies To Support The Rebuilding Of The Gulf Coast. The Council will serve as a forum for the Coordinator that will develop and review Administration policies in support of the rebuilding of the Gulf Coast.

Background On Don Powell
Don Powell Has The Experience Needed To Coordinate Rebuilding Efforts. Since 2001, Don Powell has served as Chairman of the FDIC. Prior to being named FDIC Chairman, he was President and CEO of The First National Bank of Amarillo. He has more than 30 years of experience in the financial services industry.
Don Powell Has A Record Of Public Service. He served as Chairman of the Board of Regents of the Texas A&M University System, Advisory Board Member of the George Bush School of Government and Public Service, and Chairman of the Amarillo Chamber of Commerce. Don Powell has also served on a number of community organizations from the City of Amarillo Housing Board to the Franklin Lindsay Student Aid Fund and Cal Farley's Boys Ranch. He has also served on the boards of High Plains Baptist Hospital and the Harrington Regional Medical Center.
  