
    
  ENDORSEMENT: ARKANSAS STATE REPRESENTATIVE AND PROMINENT BUSINESS LEADER MAT PITSCH THINKS JOHN KASICH SHOULD BE PRESIDENT

Pitsch to file the paperwork to put John Kasich on the Arkansas ballot, named Arkansas State Co-Chair
Today, Arkansas State Representative Mat Pitsch, a successful, widely-respected businessman, endorsed Ohio Governor John Kasich for President and later this afternoon will file the paperwork to put Gov. Kasich on the primary ballot in Arkansas.
Rep. Pitsch has a track record of achievement. After working his way up through the Whirlpool Corporation where he ultimately became CEO/President of McCourt Manufacturing, Rep. Pitsch left the corporation to pursue his passion for public service. In 2001, Pitsch joined the faculty of the University of Arkansas–Fort Smith and was later named Dean of the College of Applied Science and Technology. More recently, Pitsch was picked to lead the Regional Intermodal Transportation Authority of Western Arkansas, an innovative regional approach to building economic development infrastructure in Arkansas, and at the helm, Pitsch succeeded in developing a number of critically important infrastructure projects to help grow the Arkansas economy. In 2014, Pitsch was elected to the Arkansas House of Representatives.
"He helped balance the budget in Washington," said Rep. Pitsch. "When he became governor, he inherited a state that was dying, and by applying conservative principles and practices, he pulled it out of the ditch and turned it into a model success story for other states to follow. Coupled with his accomplishments in Washington where he helped to balance the budget and reform our welfare system, Gov. Kasich's experience and record of success is unmatched by anyone else in the field."
"To have the support of a strong, respected leader like Rep. Pitsch is terrific," said Kasich. "He understands the importance of economic growth, and I have outlined a plan to achieve it. I'm grateful for his support, and together, we can get America back on track."
  