
    "Legal Or Illegal, The Law Makes No Distinction. Then What's The Law For?"
"As Mayor of New York in the 1990s, when undocumented immigrants were pouring into the city, Rudolph W. Giuliani extolled their contributions to the Big Apple's burgeoning economy, forbade city workers from denying them social services and benefits, bent over backward to help them navigate the path toward citizenship, and grasped the plain fact that they would never be deported en masse." (Editorial, "A Flip That's Flopped," The Washington Post, 11/12/07)
Mayor Giuliani Ran New York City With A Sanctuary State Of Mind:
A Recent Washington Post Editorial Actually Praised Mayor Giuliani's Sanctuary City Days In New York City. "As Mayor of New York in the 1990s, when undocumented immigrants were pouring into the city, Rudolph W. Giuliani extolled their contributions to the Big Apple's burgeoning economy, forbade city workers from denying them social services and benefits, bent over backward to help them navigate the path toward citizenship, and grasped the plain fact that they would never be deported en masse." (Editorial, "A Flip That's Flopped," The Washington Post, 11/12/07)
A 1997 New York Daily News Editorial, However, Blasted Mayor Giuliani For Not Supporting Federal Immigration Laws. "Mayor Giuliani is actually suing the federal government to be relieved of the requirement that city workers turn over information about illegal immigrants to the Immigration and Naturalization Service. At City University, undocumented aliens qualify for the low resident tuition if they've lived here for a year. And just last week, the mayor announced that immigrants applying for marriage licenses couldn't be turned away even if their visas had expired." (Editorial, "Not All Immigrants Are Equal," [New York] Daily News, 3/23/97)
- Daily News: Under Mayor Giuliani, "Illegal" Didn't Have Any Meaning. "But at the same time, federal immigration laws must be enforced strictly. For no nation can allow its borders to be violated with impunity. And state and local governments must help. In New York, that means making the adjective 'illegal' mean something when it appears before the word 'immigrant.' ... In other words, legal or illegal, the law makes no distinction. Then what's the law for?" (Editorial, "Not All Immigrants Are Equal," [New York] Daily News, 3/23/97)

Both Sen. Hillary Clinton And Mayor Giuliani Support Tuition Breaks For Illegals:
Sen. Hillary Clinton Favors "Tuition Aid For The Children Of Unauthorized Immigrants." "Clinton and Obama sounded similar in decrying the inflammatory debate surrounding the failed legislation that would have allowed millions of illegal immigrants to eventually seek citizenship. They also echoed each other's calls for universal health care and tuition aid for the children of unauthorized immigrants." (Beth Reinhard, "Clinton, Obama Address Immigration With Latinos," Contra Costa [CA] Times, 7/23/07)
Mayor Giuliani's Sanctuary Policy Allowed The City University Of New York (CUNY) To Offer Tuition Breaks To Illegal Immigrants. "CUNY's policy of charging illegal immigrants the lower rate reflected the city's historic embrace of immigrants and conformed to a policy laid out by Mayor Edward I. Koch in 1989 and reaffirmed by Mayors David N. Dinkins and Rudolph W. Giuliani." (Karen W. Arenson, "CUNY Raises Tuition Rates For Foreigners Here Illegally," The New York Times, 11/3/01)
- In 2000, At Least 2,788 Illegal Immigrants Were Enrolled At CUNY. "CUNY, whose mission has long been to educate poor people, including immigrants, said it did not know how many illegal immigrants were enrolled this year. But last year, 2,788 out of the nearly 200,000 CUNY students identified themselves that way. Since CUNY does not require proof of a student's status, it does not know how many of its other students are in the United States illegally." (Karen W. Arenson, "CUNY Raises Tuition Rates For Foreigners Here Illegally," The New York Times, 11/3/01)

  