
    Mitt Romney today announced the support of leaders from Pennsylvania. "I am honored to have the support of these important leaders in Pennsylvania," said Mitt Romney. "Pennsylvania will be a critical state in this election. Voters there have been hurt by President Obama's economic policies. I look forward to partnering with these leaders in my efforts to defeat President Obama in 2012." Announcing his support, former Pennsylvania Republican Party Chairman Alan Novak said, "Mitt Romney has the conservative leadership experience and business acumen to get our nation's economy back on track. He will restore trust, confidence and certainty that the public and business leaders do not feel now and he will reverse the crushing onslaught of federal regulatory overreach that is smothering our economic recovery." "Mitt Romney has demonstrated throughout his life that he has the leadership to turn around struggling enterprises – right now our economy needs a turnaround," said Philadelphia Regional Port Authority Chairman Charlie Kopp. "He has laid out a plan for economic renewal that puts conservative principles and economic know-how to work. I look forward to working with him as he brings this pro-growth message to Pennsylvania voters." Background On Pennsylvanians Endorsing Mitt Romney:

Phil English; Former Member Of Congress
Alan Novak; Former Pennsylvania Republican Party Chairman
Jim Roddey; Allegheny County Republican Chairman And Former Allegheny County Executive
John McNally; Dauphin County Republican Chairman and Secretary Of The Pennsylvania Republican Party
Chris Bravacos; Former Pennsylvania Republican Party Executive Director and President of Bravo Group
Andy Reilly; Delaware County Republican Chairman And Former Delaware County Council Chairman
Pat Deon; Chairman, Southeastern Pennsylvania Transportation Authority And Owner Of Pat Deon Beverages
Charlie Kopp; Chairman of the Philadelphia Regional Port Authority
Dan Hayward; Former Pennsylvania GOP Executive Director
David James; Former Pennsylvania GOP Executive Director
Mark Stewart; Attorney and Republican Activist
Brian Tierney; CEO, Brian Communications/Realtime Media; 2000 Co-Chair for Republican National Committee's National Catholic Task Force; Former Publisher, Philadelphia Inquirer & The Philadelphia Daily News

  