
    Pool Reports by Katherine Doyle, Washington Examiner 



Sent:
Reports:




November 13, 202111:07 CEST

VP travel pool report #1 — Pool is to US Embassy 
Greetings from Paris where VP Harris is wrapping up the final day of her trip.
Motorcade was rolling at 10:41 am to the U.S. Embassy for a meet and greet with Embassy staff. We arrived at 10:48 am. The event is closed press.
Pool did not see VP as she left the RON this morning.
Here is the VP's official schedule for today:
On Saturday, at 11:45AM CEST, the Vice President and Second Gentleman will participate in an Embassy meet and greet with personnel at the U.S. Embassy in France. This event at the U.S. Ambassador's residence in Paris is closed press.
At 1:10PM CEST, the Vice President and Second Gentleman will depart France en route Washington, DC. The departure from Paris-Orly Airport will be open press, and arrival at Joint Base Andrews will be covered by the travel pool.



November 13, 202111:08 CEST

VP travel pool report #1a - correction to location 
Correction — we are at the Chief of Mission's Residence, per latest OVP guidance.
The residence is called the Hôtel de Pontalba — Harris has visited several times this week.



November 13, 202112:16 CEST

VP travel pool report #2 - Le Carillon arrival 
At 12:06, VP Harris pulled up to Le Carillon, one of several sites targeted by terrorist attackers six years ago today. Harris will lay flowers, per OVP.
The streets are busy and people are videotaping and waving.
From the White House:
The Vice President is visiting the Carillon Café. She will lay flowers on the sixth anniversary of the attack on Paris. On the night of November 13, 2015, a series of coordinated terrorist attacks torn through Paris killing a total of 130 people—13 at Le Carillon and Le Petit Cambodge cafes. Another 416 were injured.
VP's motorcade departed the chief of mission's residence at 11:49 am.



November 13, 202113:24 CEST

VP travel pool report #3 - second stop / quotes 
After roughly 22 mins inside a cooking supply shop, VP Harris took questions on Ukraine, how her trip prepared her for the presidency, and a cookware purchase. Motorcade was rolling to Orly airport at 12:51 pm.
Quotes:
Is there any sign that Russia is heeding the U.S. warning to back off Ukraine?
"I cannot talk to you about classified information but of course we are very concerned about what's happening."
Asked what she learned on the trip that would prepare her for the presidency, Harris said:
"I will tell you that it was a very productive and a good trip and we have a lot of follow up to do. And as we discussed extensively over the past couple of days this trip was about, of course, making clear the long standing relationship, but also that as we go into a new era for the world, that our work will continue and we do it with a sense of optimism, but a sense of strong conviction that the partnership between the United States and France remains and will continue to be a very strong one."
She told reporters that she purchased "a series of pots."
A few dozen people on the street behind us cheered as Harris approached her car to leave.
Harris also took questions from reporters inside the E. Dehillerin Cookware Shop when she arrived at 12:26 pm.
VP looked at the press when she walked in and said she "just wanted to buy a pot."
On whether she had briefed the president on her trip yet, Harris said they spoke "briefly" and will again.
"We talked briefly and we're gonna talk more extensively when I get back which will be in several hours," Harris said.
She said intends to use her purchase today for Thanksgiving cooking. "Actually, yes," she told reporters.
She was asked whether she had a famous Turkey recipe.
"I actually do have a great recipe for stuffing. I'm happy to share it with anyone," she responded.
Harris was asked if Emhoff was a good cook.
"He's an apprentice," she responded.
Emhoff added: "After almost burning down our apartment I got a little bit better."
She chatted with a shopkeeper about the wares, pointing at a wall of copper pans. Pool heard Harris speaking French but couldn't decipher her words.
Some color from the stop at Le Carillon.
Harris stepped out of her car holding ivory flowers, joined by Second Gentleman Doug Emhoff. She stepped towards a memorial located opposite the attack site.
Harris and Emhoff walked into Le Carillon and exchanged remarks with people inside. Thirteen candles were lit on the counter, three blue, four white and six red.
She walked out at 12:11 pm
After a five minute stop, VP motorcade was rolling at 12:15 pm to the second location.



November 13, 202113:53 CEST

VP travel pool report #4 - departure 
AF2 will be wheels up momentarily for JBA at 1:47 pm. The flight is about 8h40.
VP Harris took one question on voting rights under the wing:
"We're working on it and I'm not going to give up on it. I'm not giving up on it."
Harris did not respond to a follow up asked as she was walking away about whether it would be a failure of the administration not to pass something.
VP motorcade was on the tarmac at Paris-Orly Airport at 1:33 pm.
Greeters per OVP:
Greeters:
- Marie-Francoise Moura, Airport of Paris- Lt Col Jerome Robert, Colonel of Gendarmerie- Alexis Marty, Director of Airport Police- Pierre Marchand-Lacour, Sous-Prefet and Director of the Cabinet of the Governor of Val-de-Marne- Brian Aggeler, Chargé d'affaires a.i., U.S. Embassy Paris- Stephen Duso-Bauduin, Deputy Head of Ceremonial, State Protocol and Diplomatic Events Directorate at Ministry of Foreign Affairs (French Protocol)
An additional detail from OVP: Harris was greeted inside Le Carillon by owner Ali Amokrane.



November 13, 202117:51 EST

VP pool report #5 - JBA arrival 
AF2 touched down at JBA at 4:49 pm. VP Harris and Second Gentleman Emhoff exited at 4:57 pm. Marine 2 was wheels up at 5 pm.
VP Harris came to the back of the plane before takeoff and exchanged off the record pleasantries with the press for about 2 minutes. Emhoff was with her.
A la prochaine…




  