
    Mining has long been recognized as an exceptionally hazardous and demanding occupation. To a large degree, this Nation's economy has been built on the labors of its miners. Their health, safety, and welfare are matters of paramount concern, particularly as we expand production of coal and other needed minerals.
I am exceptionally pleased today to sign S. 717, the Federal Mine Safety and Health Amendments Act of 1977. For the first time, all the Nation's miners will be protected under one comprehensive mine safety and health law. Building on experience gained under previous mine safety and health laws, the bill makes needed improvements which strengthen the protections which should rightly be afforded the Nation's miners and provides that the Secretary of Labor is to administer this new law.
I would note with pleasure that this is a bill which represents the close cooperation of the administration with both Houses of Congress. I particularly want to recognize the efforts of Senator Williams and Congressman Perkins in passing this legislation.
I would note with pleasure that this is a bill which represents the close cooperation of the administration with both Houses of Congress. I particularly want to recognize the efforts of Senator Williams and Congressman Perkins in passing this legislation.
I would also note that the new law, which transfers responsibilities for mine safety and health programs from the Department of the Interior to the Department of Labor, is a significant contribution to our efforts to reorganize the Federal Government to perform more efficiently and effectively.
This administration will be sensitive to the economic impacts of this legislation to ensure that the mining industry stays productive and efficient while, at the same time, the lives and health of the Nation's miners are protected.
I look forward to working together with miners, their representatives, and with the operators of the Nation's mines to implement this vital legislation.
  