
    Alexandria, Va. - November 25, 2015 - Today, the Ben Carson for President 2016 Campaign announced that Johnnie Moore will be joining its efforts as Special Faith Advisor. Mr. Moore will be responsible for advising the campaign on its outreach to Christian voters across the country.
Mr. Moore is an author, speaker and commentator, and is best known for extensive humanitarian work around the world, especially on behalf of persecuted Christians. He is a senior fellow at the Liberty University Center for Apologetics and Cultural Engagement, a senior contributing editor at The Christian Post and a regular contributor to The Blaze and Fox News.
"I have long admired Dr. Carson," said Mr. Moore. "I first met Dr. Carson when I invited him to speak at Liberty University in 2012. I'll never forget that morning. I watched as over 10,000 students stood cheering for a man whose inspirational story truly embodied the American dream. That's the moment I first thought, 'I wonder if he'll ever run for president.' I am so glad he is running, and it's a privilege to help more people in our country discover a man whose brilliance is only matched by his goodness. He is a great man who can provide the leadership needed by this great country."
"I'm very pleased to welcome Johnnie," said Dr. Carson. "I have been humbled by the overwhelming support the American people have shown me, and I am grateful to God for opening door after door for me during this election season. To me, reaching out to communities of faith is a top priority. I am excited to have Johnnie help lead this effort."
Mr. Moore serves on the boards of the World Evangelical Alliance, the National Association of Evangelicals, World Help and the Dream Center in Los Angeles. He is the author of the bestselling book, Defying ISIS: Preserving Christianity in the Place of Its Birth and in Your Own Backyard.
He is also the president of his own consulting and public relations firm, The KAIROS Company, which focuses on helping the faith community and those interested in them. Previously, he spent a dozen years at Liberty University and served as its Senior Vice President and longtime spokesperson, as well as a professor of religion and the campus chaplain.
  