
    The President today declared a major disaster exists in the State of Missouri and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms, flooding, and a tornado during the period of September 11-24, 2008.
The President's action makes Federal funding available to affected individuals in Boone, Callaway, Chariton, Lewis, Lincoln, Linn, Marion, Osage, Schuyler, St. Charles, St. Louis, Stone, Taney, Texas, and Webster Counties and the Independent City of St. Louis.
Assistance can include grants for temporary housing and home repairs, low-cost loans to cover uninsured property losses, and other programs to help individuals and business owners recover from the effects of the disaster.
Federal funding also is available to State and eligible local governments and certain private nonprofit organizations on a cost-sharing basis for emergency work and the repair or replacement of facilities damaged by the severe storms, flooding, and a tornado in Adair, Audrain, Barry, Bollinger, Butler, Callaway, Cape Girardeau, Carter, Chariton, Christian, Clark, Crawford, Dent, Douglas, Dunklin, Howard, Howell, Knox, Lewis, Lincoln, Linn, Madison, Maries, Marion, Miller, New Madrid, Oregon, Ozark, Perry, Ralls, Ray, Reynolds, Ripley, Schuyler, Scotland, Scott, Shannon, Shelby, St. Genevieve, Stoddard, Stone, Sullivan, Taney, Texas, Wayne, Webster, and Wright Counties.
Federal funding is also available on a cost-sharing basis for hazard mitigation measures statewide.
R. David Paulison, Administrator, Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), Department of Homeland Security, named Michael L. Karl as the Federal Coordinating Officer for Federal recovery operations in the affected area.
FEMA said additional designations may be made at a later date if requested by the State and warranted by the results of further damage assessments.
FEMA said that residents and business owners who sustained losses in the designated counties can begin applying for assistance tomorrow by registering online at http://www.fema.gov or by calling 1-800-621-FEMA(3362) or 1-800-462-7585 (TTY) for the hearing and speech impaired. The toll-free telephone numbers will operate 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, until further notice.
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: FEMA (202) 646-4600.
  