
    To the Senate of the United States:
With a view to receiving the advice and consent of the Senate to ratification, I transmit herewith a copy of the Convention on the Recognition of Studies, Diplomas and Degrees Concerning Higher Education in the States Belonging to the Europe Region.
This instrument was adopted on December 21, 1979 by the International Conference of States for Adoption of the Convention convened by the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO), and signed on behalf of the United States on December 21, 1979. I also transmit, for the information of the Senate, the report of the Department of State on the Convention.
The Convention is open for signature and ratification only by States of UNESCO's Europe Region (which includes the United States), as well as the Holy See. Other States which are members of the United Nations, of one of its Specialized Agencies or of the International Atomic Energy Agency, or which are Parties to the Statute of the International Court of Justice may be authorized to accede to the Convention by a twothirds vote of an ad hoc committee comprised of at least twenty Contracting States from the Europe Region of UNESCO.
The United States participated actively and effectively in the negotiation of this Convention to ensure that its provisions are compatible with the Constitution, laws, and policies of the United States and do not infringe on the powers and responsibilities of local governmental and nongovernmental educational or professional authorities. Thus, while promoting the objectives of the Final Act of the Helsinki Conference to facilitate the recognition of academic credentials and to improve the mobility of students, teachers and scholars, the Convention acknowledges the pluralistic, decentralized and frequently nongovernmental nature of the decision-making process pertaining to education and entry into the practice of professions in the United States. The Convention establishes an implementation mechanism to achieve international and domestic cooperation and coordination in carrying out its terms.
The report of the Department of State summarizes the Convention's provisions and concludes that no reservations, understandings or declarations are necessary.
By giving its advice and consent to ratification of this Convention, the Senate will advance the cause of higher education within and among the States Parties to the Convention. I recommend that the Senate give prompt consideration to the Convention and advise and consent to its ratification.
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
November 13, 1980.
  