
    Branchville Mayor Endorses Hillary
(COLUMBIA) - Sen. Hillary Clinton unveiled her bold new plan to address the nation's energy and climate crisis Monday, following South Carolina legislators' and mayors' calls for Presidential candidates to address the issue of global warming.
Hillary's plan to establish a green, efficient economy and create as many as 5 million new jobs will reduce America's reliance on foreign oil and address the looming climate crisis. The plan is centered on a cap and trade system for carbon emissions, stronger energy and auto efficiency standards and a significant increase in green research funding.
"Hillary understands the issues we face in South Carolina. She values what we have to say and is committed to working with us to stem global climate change and to create new jobs based in the green-economy right here in South Carolina," Branchville Mayor Tim Cooner said.
Last week, Cooner was one of 100 South Carolina mayors who signed an open letter to the Presidential candidates to, "urge you [the candidates] to make solving climate change a top priority in your conversations with South Carolina voters. The mayors' action came on the heels of April letters from members of the State Legislature urging the candidates to address global warming."
Hillary did just that with her plan to transform our economy from carbon-based to clean and energy efficient, jumpstarting research and development through a $50 billion Strategic Energy Fund and doubling investment in basic energy research. She would also spur the green building industry by funding the retrofitting and modernization of 20 million low-income homes and take concrete steps to reduce electricity consumption, including enacting strict appliance efficiency standards and phasing out incandescent light bulbs.
"Hillary is setting ambitious goals and talking about an issue critical to our state," said Senator John Matthews, one of 21 Senators to sign the letter to Presidential candidates and one of Clinton's state co-chairs. "And she's approaching it in a way that could create an abundance of new jobs and industry here in South Carolina."
Recognizing that transportation accounts for 70 percent of U.S. oil consumption, Hillary would increase fuel efficiency standards to 55 miles per gallon by 2030, but would help automakers retool their production facilities through $20 billion in "Green Vehicle Bonds."
"I've worked extensively on the issues of community empowerment and environmental justice and I recognize the vision Hillary has," Representative Harold Mitchell, one of 88 Representatives to sign the House letter to candidates, said. "She gets it. We need her and we need this plan."
Hillary Clinton's plan to promote energy independence, address global warming, and transform our economy includes:

A new cap-and-trade program that auctions 100% of permits alongside investments to move us on the path towards energy independence; An aggressive comprehensive energy efficiency agenda to reduce electricity consumption 20% from projected levels by 2020 by changing the way utilities do business, catalyzing a green building industry, enacting strict appliance efficiency standards, and phasing out incandescent light bulbs;
A $50 billion Strategic Energy Fund, paid for in part by oil companies, to fund investments in alternative energy. The SEF will finance one-third of the $150 billon ten-year investment in a new energy future contained in this plan;
Doubling of federal investment in basic energy research, including funding for an ARPA-E, a new research agency modeled on the successful Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency
Aggressive action to transition our economy toward renewable energy sources, with renewables generating 25% of electricity by 2030 and with 60 billion gallons of home-grown biofuels available for cars and trucks by 2030;
10 "Smart Grid City" partnerships to prove the advanced capabilities of smart grid and other advanced demand-reduction technologies, as well as new investment in plug-in hybrid vehicle technologies;
An increase in fuel efficiency standards to 55 miles per gallon by 2030, and $20 billion of "Green Vehicle Bonds" to help U.S. automakers retool their plants to meet the standards;
A plan to catalyze a thriving green building industry by investing in green collar jobs and helping to modernize and retrofit 20 million low-income homes to make them more energy efficient;
A new "Connie Mae" program to make it easier for low and middle-income Americans to buy green homes and invest in green home improvements;
A requirement that all publicly traded companies report financial risks due to climate change in annual reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission; and
Creation of a "National Energy Council" within the White House to ensure implementation of the plan across the Executive Branch.
A requirement that all federal buildings designed after January 20, 2009 will be zero emissions buildings.

To view a full copy of Hillary's plan, visit www.hillaryclinton.com.
  