
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

Military families are diverse, strong, resourceful, and patriotic. The men and women who serve our country understand that their families provide essential support and make enormous sacrifices every day. We, as a Nation, must also recognize the unselfish contributions of our military families wherever they may be around the world.
As we go about the routine business of our lives, it is easy to forget the daily hardships, inconveniences, separations, and disruptions that our service men and women and their families endure to protect America. These dedicated individuals will affirm that it is their families who invariably sustain them and warm their hearts. In every city and State and in many countries worldwide, service men and women proudly note that the highlight of their day is that special smile, telephone call, or letter they receive. The military family is the motivational force that continually elevates the spirit of the service member when life's joys and sorrows need to be shared.
The Department of Defense has long recognized that the family unit is an important factor in the overall readiness and well-being of the members of the Armed Forces. Indeed, military families make extraordinary contributions to the entire Nation through their efforts to support and encourage their loved ones.
The Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 115, has designated November 22, 1993, as "National Military Families Recognition Day" and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this day.
Now, Therefore, I, William J. Clinton, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim November 22, 1993, as National Military Families Recognition Day. I call upon all Americans to join in honoring military families throughout the world. Finally, I ask Federal, State, and local officials and private organizations to observe this day with appropriate ceremonies and activities.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this eighteenth day of November, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-three, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and eighteenth.

WILLIAM J. CLINTON
  