
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Kevin Madden (857) 288-6390
Boston, MA – Today, Governor Mitt Romney announced that Ambassador Thomas Melady, the former U.S. Ambassador to the Vatican from 1989 to 1993, has endorsed his candidacy for President of the United States.
Making today's announcement, Ambassador Melady said, "In Governor Mitt Romney, I have found a candidate who represents the family values that are so important to me. His appreciation for the value of a strong family is clearly exhibited in his vision for America. He understands that every decision he would face, affects the American family. I look forward to working to help Mitt bring his family friendly change to Washington."
Welcoming Ambassador Melady's support, Governor Romney said, "Ambassador Melady has served our country with honor and distinction, and I am proud to have his support and his leadership. We recognize that our leaders in Washington can do more to help build stronger families in America. Ambassador Melady will be a valuable counselor as we bring conservative, pro-family change to our nation's capital."
Background on Ambassador Thomas Melady:
Ambassador Thomas Melady Served As U.S. Ambassador To The Holy See From 1989 To 1993. Currently a Professor and Senior Diplomat in Residence at The Institute of World Politics, Ambassador Melady has had a career in diplomacy, higher education and public affairs. He served in four diplomatic posts as U.S. Ambassador to Burundi, U.S. Ambassador to Uganda, Senior Adviser to the U.S. Delegation to the United Nations, and U.S. Ambassador to the Holy See. In higher education, he has served as Executive Vice President of St. Joseph's University, and as President of Sacred Heart University. He was also Assistant U.S. Secretary of Education for Post-Secondary Education under President Reagan. He is a Knight in Obedience of the Sovereign Military Order of Malta and is Vice Delegate in the United States for the Sacred Military Constantinian Order of St. George. Ambassador Melady also served on the National Board of Directors of the National Conference of Christians and Jews and the International League for Human Rights. He and his wife, the former Margaret Badum, have two daughters.
  