
    Pool Reports by Hans Nichols, Axios 



Sent:
Reports:




November 18, 202109:38

WH pool 1: Gather 
Good morning. The pool is heading into the 945 bill signing ceremony, which will be livestreamed. We then have two Oval sprays, followed by another East Room event.
Reminder of the schedule.
9:45 AM THE PRESIDENT delivers remarks and signs into law S. 1511, the "Protecting America's First Responders Act of 2021," S. 1502, the "Confidentiality Opportunities for Peer Support Counseling Act or the COPS Counseling Act," and S. 921, the "Jaime Zapata and Victor Avila Federal Officers and Employees Protection Act"State Dining RoomIn-House Pool and Pre-Credentialed Media Coverage (Gather 9:25 AM – Palm Room Doors) [RSVP here by 7:00 AM EST]
1:15 PM THE PRESIDENT participates in a bilateral meeting with The Right Honorable Justin Trudeau, P.C., M.P., Prime Minister of CanadaOval OfficeRestricted In-House Pool Spray at the Top (Gather 1:00 PM – Brady Press Briefing Room)
3:00 PM THE PRESIDENT participates in a bilateral meeting with His Excellency Andrés Manuel López Obrador, President of the United Mexican StatesOval OfficeRestricted In-House Pool Spray at the Top (Gather 2:45 PM – Brady Press Briefing Room)
4:45 PM THE PRESIDENT hosts The Right Honorable Justin Trudeau, P.C., M.P., Prime Minister of Canada, and His Excellency Andrés Manuel López Obrador, President of the United Mexican States, for the North American Leaders' Summit (NALS)East RoomIn-House Pool Spray at the Top (Gather 4:30 PM – Palm Room Doors)



November 18, 202109:49

WH pool 2: Attendees from WH official 
In attendance for the bill signing are approximately 30-40 invited guests, including Members of Congress and representatives from law enforcement organizations, as well as Attorney General Merrick Garland and Secretary of Homeland Security Alejandro Mayorkas.
On stage with the President during the signing of S. 1502, the "Confidentiality Opportunities for Peer Support Counseling Act or the COPS Counseling Act":Secretary of Homeland Security Alejandro MayorkasAttorney General Merrick GarlandSenator Catherine Cortez Masto (NV)Senator Dick Durbin (IL)Senator Patrick Leahy (VT)Representative Greg Stanton (AZ-09)Representative David Trone (MD-06)Andrea Edmiston, National Association of Police Organizations (NAPO)Patrick Yoes, President, Fraternal Order of Police (FOP)Angela Bomba, widow of Officer Thomas Bomba
On stage with the President during the signing of S. 1511, the "Protecting America's First Responders Act of 2021":Secretary of Homeland Security Alejandro MayorkasAttorney General Merrick GarlandSenator Dick Durbin (IL)Senator Kirsten Gillibrand (NY)Senator Amy Klobuchar (MN)Senator Sheldon Whitehouse (RI)Representative Joe Courtney (CT-02)Representative Bill Pascrell (NJ-09)Andrea Edmiston, Director of Governmental Affairs, National Association of Police Organizations (NAPO)Eddie Richardson, CEO, The Wounded BluePatrick Yoes, President, Fraternal Order of Police (FOP)Edmund Small, Vice President, Sergeants Benevolent Association (SBA) of the NYPDRobert Brown, CEO, International Association of Fire Chiefs (IAFC)Sarah Lee, CEO, National Volunteer Fire Council (NVFC) 
On stage with the President during the signing of S. 921, the "Jaime Zapata and Victor Avila Federal Officers and Employees Protection Act":Secretary of Homeland Security Alejandro MayorkasAttorney General Merrick GarlandSenator Dick Durbin (IL)Senator Patrick Leahy (VT)Representative Henry Cuellar (TX-28)Representative Michael McCaul (TX-10)Representative Bill Pascrell (NJ-09)Patrick Yoes, President, Fraternal Order of Police (FOP)Andrea Edmiston, National Association of Police Organizations (NAPO)Edmund Small, Vice President, Sergeants Benevolent Association (SBA) of the NYPDSteven Wasserman, President, National Association of Assistant U.S. AttorneysChad Hooper, Executive Director, Professional Managers Association



November 18, 202110:21

WH Pool 3: event concludes 
Potus did not answer a shouted questions about what his message to his fellow North American leaders would be but he did hint that he will answer questions when his meetings with them are over.
Also, Sen. Coons made a late appearance.
From a WH official:
Senator Chris Coons (DE) was also in attendance during the signing of S. 921, the "Jaime Zapata and Victor Avila Federal Officers and Employees Protection Act."



November 18, 202110:51

WH Pool 4: POTUS lingered after his remarks 
With his mask on, Biden glad handed with senators and representatives, posing for photos and making small talk. Sen. Leahy was taking his own pictures, with an actual camera.
VPOTUS also ambled around and spoke with lawmakers.
A WH official sends this along.
"The children on stage during the first bill signing were the sons of Angela Bomba, widow of Officer Thomas Bomba:
Tommy Bomba
Jake Bomba (who was handed the pen)"
Pool was ushered out around 10:37, past the Marine Corp ensemble in the Foyer, down the east steps and then past (an open) diplomatic room to the palm room doors.



November 18, 202113:17

WH pool 5: timing updates…we appear to be running a bit behind 
Pool has not yet been summoned for the 115 Oval spray.



November 18, 202112:17

WH Pool 6: Lunch lid until 1 PM
[APP Note: No additional text was included in this report. Note also the time compared to Report #5. These two may be misnumbered.]



November 18, 202113:45

WH Pool 7: pool gathering for spray 
So we could be heading into Oval imminently (!)



November 18, 202113:59

WH Pool 8: some news from the Oval spray -- POTUS "considering" a diplomatic boycott of the winter Olympics 
Asked about a diplomatic boycott of the Winter Olympics in Beijing at the end of the pool spray, Biden said it's "something we are considering."
He deflected other shouted questions about tax breaks for EVs, saying "We're going to talk about that..." and noted that the tax credits have not passed the House or the Senate.
Fuller quotes TK.



November 18, 202114:01

WH Pool 9 Participants in the meeting, per a WH official 
Participating in the President's bilateral meeting with The Right Honorable Justin Trudeau, P.C., M.P., Prime Minister of Canada:
U.S. ManifestThe PresidentT.H. Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security AffairsT.H. Brian Deese, National Economic Council DirectorT.H. John Kerry, Special Presidential Envoy for ClimateT.H. Wendy Sherman, Deputy Secretary of StateT.H. David Cohen, U.S. Ambassador to CanadaMs. Isabel Rioja-Scott, Director for North America, NSC
Canada ManifestThe Rt. Hon. Justin Trudeau, P.C., M.P., Prime Minister of CanadaT.H. Chrystia Freeland, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of FinanceT.H. Mélanie Joly, Minister of Foreign AffairsT.H. Mary Ng, Minister of International Trade, Export Promotion, Small Business and Economic DevelopmentH.E. Kirsten Hillman, Ambassador of Canada to the United StatesMs. Katie Telford, Chief of Staff, Office of the Prime MinisterMr. Brian Clow, Deputy Chief of Staff, Office of the Prime Minister



November 18, 202115:21

WH Pool 11: pool gathering for AMLO spray
[APP Note: No additional text was included in this report. Note also the time of this report and Report #10 below. These may be misnumbered.]



November 18, 202114:25

WH Pool 10: Psaki briefing starting (and a longer report on the Oval spray) 
The US Pool (along with a Canadian contingent) was brought into the Oval Office around 1:50, where a masked Biden greeted the dual pools with a "You guys all have health insurance, (inaudible) in case anyone needs it."
"Yes. Yes Sir. Yes," came a smattering of responses from the preternaturally polite Canadian press corps.
Added a mischievous Trudeau: "Half of them are Canadian, so they definitely have health coverage." (Zing)
Biden then began with pleasantries, noting that the two leaders have met several times already.
"It's been a busy year," offered Trudeau.
Biden then extended condolences to the families affected by the extreme weather in the Pacific Northwest, before segueing into the importance of addressing climate change.
Biden spoke broadly of combatting COVID together, shipping out more vaccines "no strings attached" and his global Build Back Better agenda.
"I think we both think we're best when opportunity, equity and justice all collide."
"This is one of the easiest relationships that we have," Biden concluded.
Trudeau followed in English, before switching briefly to French:
"It is a pleasure to be back here in Washington," he said.
On COVID, the Prime Minister said: "The easy work is done here at home; the hard work around the world making sure we're bringing people along -- and that's something that we've always been great partners on."
Biden was then first asked about a potential Canadian carveout on EV tax credits, which he essentially punted but said that they would discuss it.
And then the shouted Olympics question, with Biden's brief: "Something we are considering."
(Please check quotes against TV or transcript)
The Psaki briefing has commenced.



November 18, 202116:10

WH Pool 12: NO NEWS from the AMLO spray 
POTUS did not answer shouted questions at the end on immigration.
Biden gave opening remarks, at times pausing for his translator.
AMLO followed with a nine-minute response; he did not pause for his translator. His remarks included diplomatic niceties as well as some historical detours, his thoughts on various 19th and 20th Century U.S. presidents, as well as some poetry references (Pablo Neruda, I believe).
Upon AMLO's conclusion, Biden appeared to chuckle, acknowledging the challenge facing his counterpart's translator, who condensed her president's remarks for the attending pools with concision and clarity.



November 18, 202116:21

WH Pool 13: Participants, from a WH official
Participating in the President's bilateral meeting with His Excellency Andrés Manuel López Obrador, President of the United Mexican States:
U.S. ManifestThe PresidentT.H. Alejandro Mayorkas, Secretary of Homeland SecurityT.H. Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security AffairsT.H. Wendy Sherman, Deputy Secretary of StateT.H. Ken Salazar, U.S. Ambassador to MexicoT.H. Juan Gonzalez, Senior Director for Western Hemisphere Affairs, NSCT.H. Katie Tobin, Senior Director for Transborder Security, NSC
United Mexican States ManifestH.E. Andrés Manuel López Obrador, President of the United Mexican StatesH.E. Marcelo Ebrard Casaubón, Secretary of Foreign AffairsDr. Rogelio Eduardo Ramírez de la O, Secretary of Finance and Public CreditH.E. Tatiana Clouthier Carrillo, Secretary of EconomyH.E. Esteban Moctezuma Barragán, Ambassador of Mexico to the United StatesCommissioner Francisco Garduño Yáñez, Commissioner of the National Institute of MigrationMr. Roberto Velasco Álvarez, Chief Officer for North America



November 18, 202117:06

WH Pool 14: Pool in East Room for the event 
Your pooler won't attempt to describe the table configuration and will just send a picture.



November 18, 202117:41

WH Pool 15 No news from summit spray. No questions answered...
You saw most of it live. At the end of the three leader's remarks, POTUS did not answer shouted questions on Title 42 and the remain in Mexico program. Pool surrendered headsets for translation and was ushered out of the East Room.
Here's a full participant list from a WH official.
U.S. ManifestThe PresidentT.H. Janet Yellen, Secretary of the TreasuryT.H. Alejandro Mayorkas, Secretary of Homeland SecurityT.H. Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security AffairsT.H. John Kerry, Special Presidential Envoy for ClimateT.H. Wendy Sherman, Deputy Secretary of StateT.H. David Cohen, U.S. Ambassador to CanadaT.H. Ken Salazar, U.S. Ambassador to MexicoT.H. Juan Gonzalez, Senior Director for Western Hemisphere Affairs, NSCMs. Isabel Rioja-Scott, Director for North America, NSC
Canada ManifestThe Rt. Hon. Justin Trudeau, P.C., M.P., Prime Minister of CanadaT.H. Chrystia Freeland, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of FinanceT.H. Mélanie Joly, Minister of Foreign AffairsT.H. Mary Ng, Minister of International Trade, Export Promotion, Small Business and Economic DevelopmentT.H. Marco Mendicino, Minister of Public SafetyH.E. Kirsten Hillman, Ambassador of Canada to the United StatesMs. Katie Telford, Chief of Staff, Office of the Prime MinisterMr. David Morrison, Deputy Minister and Foreign and Defense Policy Advisor to the Prime MinisterMr. Brian Clow, Deputy Chief of Staff, Office of the Prime MinisterMr. Jeremy Broadhurst, Senior Advisor to the Prime Minister
United Mexican States ManifestH.E. Andrés Manuel López Obrador, President of the United Mexican StatesH.E. Marcelo Ebrard Casaubón, Secretary of Foreign AffairsDr. Rogelio Eduardo Ramírez de la O, Secretary of Finance and Public CreditH.E. Tatiana Clouthier Carrillo, Secretary of EconomyH.E. Esteban Moctezuma Barragán, Ambassador of Mexico to the United StatesH.E. Juan José Gómez Camacho, Ambassador of Mexico to CanadaDr. Hugo López-Gatell Ramírez, Undersecretary of Prevention and Health PromotionCommissioner Francisco Garduño Yáñez, Commissioner of the National Institute of MigrationMr. Roberto Velasco Álvarez, Chief Officer for North AmericaDr. Luz María De la Mora Sánchez, Undersecretary for Foreign Trade



November 18, 202118:51

WH Pool 16: Dinner lid until 830 PM 
Your pool is awaiting more information on the prospect of seeing POTUS later in the evening.



November 18, 202120:42

WH Pool 17. Meeting has concluded 
The North American Leaders' Summit ended at 8:18 PM, per a WH official.



November 18, 202121:32

WH Pool 18: A travel photo lid has been called
[APP Note: No additional text was included in this report.]




 
Pool Reports below by Richard Latendresse, TVA Nouvelles 



Sent:
Reports:




November 18, 202109:00

Foreign Pool Report - North American Leaders' Summit 
Bonjour,
Buenos días,
I will be the foreign pooler today for the visit of Prime Minister Justin Trudeau and President Andrés Manuel López Obrador at the WH for the North American Leaders' Summit.
My colleague Bricio Segovia will be the foreign pooler for the Mexican bilat.
Here's some background:
* Canada hosted the last North American Leaders' Summit in June 2016; Justin Trudeau welcomed Barack Obama and Enrique Peña Neto in Ottawa.
* Trudeau was first elected in 2015 with a majority government; reelected in 2019, but with a minority government losing the popular vote to the Conservatives. In the September 2021 election, he once again failed to gain a majority government.
* Lopez Obrador has been serving as Mexico's president since December 2018. Per the Mexican Constitution, he is limited to a six-year term.
* According to Ottawa, the Prime Minister and President Biden spoke four times by telephone since last November's election:
- on Nov. 9, 2020, Trudeau phoned Biden, congratulating him on his electoral victory;- on Jan. 22, 2021, Biden spoke with Trudeau - his first call to a foreign leader as President;- on Apr. 21, 2021, they spoke regarding preparations for the April Leaders' Summit on Climate;- on Sept. 21, 2021, Biden phoned Trudeau to congratulate him on the Liberal Party's electoral victory.
* They also had three virtual meetings:
- on Feb. 19, during a virtual meeting of the G7 leaders;- on Feb. 23, 2021, where they approved a 'Roadmap for a Renewed U.S.-Canada Partnership';- on Aug. 24, 2021, where the G7 leaders discussed the situation in Afghanistan.
* They both attended in-person meetings at the G7 summit in Cornwall, UK last June and at COP26 in Glasgow.
* As for Trudeau and AMLO, it will be their first in-person meeting. They have spoken four times by phone: Sept. 2018, June 15 and July 6, 2020 and Oct. 7, 2021.
* Canada and the United States share the largest trading relationship in the world. The two countries also share the longest and most secure border in the world, over which $2 billion worth of goods and services cross daily.
* And as a reminder, the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement (USMCA), replacing NAFTA, has been in place since July 1, 2020.
Don't hesitate to reach out if you have any questions.
Richard



November 18, 202114:09

Foreign Pool Report - Biden Trudeau Bilat
The spray lasted a little over 5 minutes.
The President read from a sheet that was sitting on his knee: "This is one of the easiest relationships that we have."
Afterwards, Prime Minister Trudeau, in French, added "It is a great pleasure to be here to talk about the environment, about trade, to talk about ending the pandemic. Lots of work to do together, but I can't wait to get started."
The Prime Minister not only refused to answer questions shouted at him, in French and English, but didn't even acknowledge the reporters trying to grab his attention.



November 18, 202118:09

Foreign Pool Report - NALS Spray 
You could watch the event live.
I'm told that simultaneous translation was done while AMLO spoke.
Here is what Prime Minister Trudeau said in French, in two parts:
"It is a great pleasure to be here with you to discuss a new path for the future that we will pursue together."
"It is an opportunity to celebrate and reaffirm our friendship and our partnership. I look forward to engaging in the exciting discussions." (inaudible)
Standing behind the table of the Mexican delegation, I couldn't figure out who was there.
On the Canadian side, to the right of PM Trudeau, you could see from left to right:
- Mary Ng, Minister of International Trade, Export Promotion, Small Business and Economic Development
- Chrystia Freeland, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance
- Mélanie Joly, Minister of Foreign Affairs
- Marco Mendicino, Minister of Public Safety
Kirsten Hillman, the Canadian Ambassador to the US, was sitting behind them.
Next stop - after the summit - for the PM and his ministers: the Canadian embassy where a press conference is scheduled for 8p.




 
Pool Reports below by Bricio Segovia, MVS Radio 



Sent:
Reports:




November 18, 202115:26

Foreign Pool Report #1: Biden-AMLO Pool holding
Good afternoon,
I will be your foreign pooler for the bilateral meeting between POTUS and Mexico's President Andrés Manuel López Obrador. US Pool is holding outside the Oval. The Mexican pool is not here yet. The meeting was initially scheduled for 3:00PM and it is 3:25PM now.
Even though both leaders met virtually in March, this will be their first in-person meeting.



November 18, 202115:47

Foreign Pool Report #1: Biden-AMLO Pool Spray underway[APP Note: This should be numbered as Report #2.]
Pool entered the Oval at 3:40PM. POTUS and President López Obrador were seating along with their interpreters.
Bilat was initially scheduled for 3:00PM.
mtk



November 18, 202116:24

Foreign Pool Report #3: Biden-AMLO Pool Spray over + Quotes 
Previous foreign pool report should have been #2 and not #1. Apologies.
POTUS and President López Obrador spoke for about 20 minutes with interpreters. President Biden emphasized that the US sees Mexico as equals and the Mexican President said he is grateful for the "treatment of respect" and for the fact that Mexico is not seen as the "US backyard".
President López Obrador said that the aim is "to strengthen the region", and to achieve an "economic integration in respects with their sovereignty".
The Mexican leader also said that the USMCA is a "fundamental instrument" these days.
President López Obrador stressed that he has a "commitment with his fellow Mexican migrants and commitments are to be held". He, then, applauded President Biden's initiative to regularize over 11 million undocumented migrants living in the US.
The President talked for a long time and, when he finished, he jokingly said to the interpreter: "Let's see if you can do it".
Reporters shouted questions about the migration reform, the enforcement of MPP and the cooperation of Mexico with the program, and whether President Biden will travel to Mexico soon. Neither of the leaders answered any questions.
Pool was escorted out from the Oval at 4:00PM.




  