
    Following last week's commanding performance at the fifth Democratic debate in Atlanta, Senator Kamala Harris earned the support of local officials from the Peach State, including four state legislators. This group of local officials continues to build on Harris' strong network of grassroots support in Georgia. Georgia will hold its primary on March 24, 2020 and award over 76 delegates in the 2020 Democratic primary.
Today's endorsers include:

State Rep. "Able" Mable Thomas
State Senator Valencia Seay
State Rep. Mike Wilesnky
State Rep. Donna McLeod
Amelia Inman, Lithonia City Council
Lovely Dhillon, Social Impact Leader

"At a time when our values and who we are as a nation are being threatened, there is no better person to restore justice to the Oval Office than Kamala Harris," said Seay. "Kamala will return a sense of civility back to the White House while also solving the issues everyday Americans face. Kamala will close the gender pay gap and give the hardworking teachers of America a raise. I'm proud to endorse her for president."
Senator Valencia Seay is a member of the Georgia State Senate representing the 34th District. Seay has been serving the people of Georgia since 2010. In 2009, she was appointed to 1st vice chair of the National Black Caucus of State Legislators. Throughout her career, Seay has been a staunch advocate for civil rights and the advancement of women. She is a Life Member of the NAACP and the National Council of Negro Women as well as National Organization of Women Legislators. Recently, her community activism was honored with the introduction of the Valencia Seay Center, which will provide a free academic and safe after-school program for children in her community.
"Kamala is the fighter we need in the White House," said Thomas. "As a life-long public servant, I know firsthand the importance of having an elected official who has dedicated their career to restoring justice on behalf of those that they serve. Whether it be reproductive, economic or racial justice, Kamala's bold plans prove that she will do just that. She has always stood up for the rights of all Americans and I know she will continue to in the White House."
State Representative Mable "Able" Thomas is a member of the Georgia House of Representatives representing Georgia House District 56. Thomas won her first race in 1984, as one of the youngest members of the House. She has been a proven leader in the Georgia State House and is celebrated as one of the founding mothers of the reproductive-justice movement. Thomas helped pass landmark legislation in Georgia, requiring mammograms, pap smears and prostate exams to be covered under medical expenses thus saving many Georgians thousands of dollars in doctor bills. She has been at the forefront fighting for freedom, justice, and equality for all Georgians.
  