
    I have signed S. 2584, which authorizes the Nuclear Regulatory Commission's fiscal 1979 appropriation, and contains provisions relating to the national effort to develop a nuclear waste management policy and program.
On March 13, 1978, I established an Interagency Review Group (IRG) chaired by the Secretary of Energy and charged with developing a national strategy for dealing with the long-term management of nuclear waste. The IRG mandate recognizes the fact that numerous Federal agencies, as well as State and local interests, must be involved in the formulation of such a national policy, and in its implementation. The Nuclear Regulatory Commission has been encouraged to participate in the work of the IRG to the extent it deemed appropriate, in light of its position as an independent regulatory agency.
This bill directs the Commission, in cooperation with the Department of Energy, to study possible extension of the Commission's licensing authority over Federal radioactive waste storage and disposal activities not presently licensed. It also requires the Commission to report on means by which States might participate more fully in the process of site selection, licensing, and developing radioactive waste storage and disposal facilities. These studies, which are to be completed by March 1 of next year, will give the Commission an additional opportunity to contribute to the important work of the IRG. I expect the Commission to take the IRG's work on these subjects into full account and to closely coordinate its activities with the Department of Energy on these matters. I expect that the Commission's studies will serve as a useful supplement to the IRG's fundamental role in developing administration policy regarding nuclear waste management.
The policy being developed by the IRG is of paramount importance to me and to the Nation in reaching a viable resolution of nuclear waste problems. I look forward to receiving the IRG report in the near future, confident that the studies to be done by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission under this bill will contribute to those solutions.
  