
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
November 10 *
The President announced his intention to appoint David H. Swinton, Adele Simmons, Bobby Charles Simpson, and Chang-Lin Tien to the National Commission for Employment Policy.
November 11
In the morning, the President and Hillary Clinton traveled to Anchorage, AK. In the evening, they traveled to Manila, Philippines.
November 12
In the evening, the President and Hillary Clinton arrived in Manila, Philippines.
November 13
In the morning, following an arrival ceremony at the Malacanang Palace, the President and Hillary Clinton participated in a wreath-laying ceremony at the Rizal Monument. Later in the morning, they were given a tour of Corregidor Island.
In the afternoon, the President and Hillary Clinton toured Malacanang Palace before attending a state luncheon in the Ceremonial Room.
In the evening, the President and Hillary Clinton traveled to Jakarta, Indonesia.
November 14
In the morning, the President met with President Jiang Zemin of China in the Summit Room at the Jakarta Convention Center. Following the meeting, the President visited the Istiqlal Mosque. He then went to the U.S. Ambassador's residence where he met with Prime Minister Tomiichi Murayama of Japan.
In the afternoon, the President attended a working lunch with Prime Minister Paul Keating of Australia. He then met with President Kim Yong-sam of South Korea.
In the evening, the President attended an APEC leaders dinner at the Jakarta Convention Center. Following the dinner, he met with President Kim of South Korea and Prime Minister Murayama of Japan.
The President announced his intention to appoint Bonnie Prouty Castrey and Mary Jacksteit to the Federal Service Impasses Panel.
The President announced his intention to appoint Benjamin F. Montoya and Richard H. Truly as members of the Board of Visitors of the U.S. Naval Academy.
November 15
In the morning, the President went to Bogor, Indonesia, where he attended meetings with APEC leaders at the Istana Bogor.
Following a luncheon in the afternoon, the President continued his meetings with APEC leaders at the Istana Bogor.
November 16
In the morning, the President met with President Soeharto of Indonesia at the Istana Merdeka and then participated in a wreath-laying ceremony at the Kalibata National Heroes Cemetery.
In the afternoon, the President met with a group of American business people at the Jakarta Convention Center.
In the evening, the President and Hillary Clinton attended a state dinner hosted by President Soeharto at the Istana Negara. Following the dinner, they traveled to Oahu, HI.
November 17
In the evening, the President attended the Children's Discovery Center benefit and tribute to Gov. John Waihee at the Hilton Hawaiian Village in Kailua, HI.
  