
    Two New Ads Highlight Progressive Trump State Record, Unparalleled Ability to Connect with Voters
Helena, MT – The Bullock for President campaign today announced its first TV ad buy in Iowa. The first ad features Iowa Attorney General Tom Miller, the longest serving AG in the country and traditionally the highest Democratic vote-getter in Iowa. The second ad highlights Bullock's extensive record of progressive accomplishments in a state Donald Trump won by 20 points.
Both ads tout Governor Bullock's unique record of progressive achievement, and his unparalleled ability to connect with voters of all stripes — an ability that propelled him to win three elections in a Trump state. The ad buy demonstrates the campaign's commitment in Iowa and supplements its strong ground operation and growing list of local endorsements.
Watch the ads here:
"Responsibility"
ATTORNEY GENERAL TOM MILLER: As Iowans, we know our right to go first in the nation comes with a special responsibility: to sort through a crowded field and caucus for a Democrat who can beat Trump. This year, that's what matters most. And that's why I strongly support Steve Bullock for President. Steve is the only Democrat who has won a state that Trump won. Because he connects with voters better than anybody else. He's a pro-choice, pro-union governor. He will be a President for all of America.
GOVERNOR STEVE BULLOCK: I'm Steve Bullock and I approve this message.
"Only"
He is the only Democratic candidate running who has won a state that Trump won. Governor of Montana, Steve Bullock: A democrat that wins in rural, red America. Endorsed by Attorney General Tom Miller. You are pro-choice, you're for marriage equality, you've expanded Medicaid. Some of the most progressive new campaign finance protections in the country. To prevent dark money groups from controlling an election. The best kept secret in the crowded 2020 field.
GOVERNOR STEVE BULLOCK: I'm Steve Bullock and I approve this message to beat Trump and be a President for all of America.
  