
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Kevin Madden (857) 288-6390
Boston, MA – Today, U.S. Congressman Chris Cannon (R-UT) announced his endorsement of Governor Mitt Romney and his candidacy for President of the United States. Congressman Cannon will serve as part of the Romney for President Congressional Whip Team.
"For over ten years, Congressman Cannon has been an effective representative of the people of Utah. As a successful businessman with years of experience working on financial matters in the United States Congress, Congressman Cannon has worked to put Washington on the side of economic growth," said Governor Romney. "I look forward to working with Congressman Cannon as we campaign across the country for building a stronger America with a stronger military, stronger economy and stronger families."
Joining Romney for President, Congressman Cannon said, "Governor Romney has the experience, vision and values to lead our country. For three years, we in Utah had the honor of seeing Governor Romney up-close and know first-hand what he can do when presented with daunting challenges. His record of leadership and pro-growth proposals are exactly what we need in Washington today."
Congressman Cannon joins a Congressional Whip Team led by Congressional Liaison Representative Jim McCrery (R-LA) and Co-House Congressional Liaisons Representatives Dave Camp (R-MI) and Howard "Buck" McKeon (R-CA).
Background On U.S. Congressman Chris Cannon:
U.S. Congressman Chris Cannon Was Elected To Congress On November 5, 1996. In January 2003, Congressman Cannon was named Chairman of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Commercial and Administrative Law. As Chairman, he was involved in legislation regarding bankruptcy reform, privacy, interstate compacts and tort reform. He is currently the subcommittee's Ranking Member. He also serves on the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee and House Natural Resources Committee. In January 2003, he was elected chairman of the Western Caucus, a group of more than 50 Congressmen working on rational, balanced and sound resource management.
Before his election to Congress, Congressman Cannon was involved in the steel industry. In 1987, he and his brother purchased and reopened Geneva Steel in Orem, UT, restoring 2,500 steel worker jobs. In 1990, he purchased Geneva's new venture division, now called Cannon Industries. He also served in a number of political positions including as Utah Finance Chairman for President George Bush's reelection campaign in 1992. He has also served as the Utah Republican Party's Finance Chairman and as a delegate to the Republican National Conventions in 1992 and 1996. He and his wife, Claudia, have eight children and reside in Mapleton, UT.
  