
    
American heroes, in their own words.
What does Veterans Day mean to those who have served and sacrificed? Here are a few of their thoughts:

"As an immigrant and the first person in my family to obtain a college degree and then a graduate degree, I cherish the freedom we have in this country. It has been an honor to serve with the brave men and women who keep our country safe, so that we may live free."—Won Palisoul, U.S. Navy veteran and spouse of a veteran


"My family has consecutively served our nation in uniform since World War I. Service to our nation is imbued in all that I do. All that I am, and all that I have achieved, I owe to my service to our nation. I am and shall always be grateful for the opportunities my service provided me and the lifelong friends I gained along the way."—Terron Sims, West Point graduate and Iraq War veteran


"When my husband was deployed in Iraq, I wrote an email every evening about the little everyday things that the kids and I did. We couldn't talk on the phone very often, but I knew when my husband had time he could read my emails and if he wanted to respond he could. I didn't write any complaints or say anything negative or stressful. Instead, I wrote about things that we would have talked about if he were home. He loved hearing about the funny things the kids did and said that day. It made him feel like he wasn't missing out on their daily lives. It was a cathartic experience for me to let him know what I was doing, thinking, and feeling at the time. It also helped our transition when he returned home because there wasn't a huge gap that we felt was missed between us.
"Deployments are difficult on the entire family. Communication is key to a strong family and marriage, especially during challenging times. Something as simple as our daily quick emails helped us to stay connected as we navigated through our time apart and transitioned back together again."—Uma Chaudhary, U.S. Air Force spouse
Use of former military ranks or job titles does not imply endorsement by any of the Departments of the Military.
  