
    The Rudy Giuliani Presidential Committee announced today that Senator Kit Bond has endorsed Rudy Giuliani for President. Senator Bond will serve as National Co-Chairman and the liaison to the United States Senate for the campaign.
"America is hungry for a President who will say what he means, and do what he says. The American people want and deserve a genuine leader, and that is Rudy Giuliani," said U.S. Senator Kit Bond. "Rudy has the leadership qualities and the experience to handle whatever challenges America faces in the next 10 years."
"Kit Bond is a leader when it comes to making sure those on the front lines of the Terrorists' War on Us have the resources they need," said Rudy Giuliani. "He is a well respected lifelong public servant dedicated to the people of Missouri, and I am honored to have his support."
About Christopher S. "Kit" Bond:
Christopher S. "Kit" Bond is a sixth generation Missourian, born in St. Louis in 1939. He grew up in Mexico, MO, where he still resides and tends to several groves of trees he planted by hand.
Bond graduated from Princeton University in 1960 and received his law degree from the University of Virginia, having graduated first in his class. After serving as a clerk to the Chief Judge of the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals in Atlanta, Bond practiced law in Washington, D.C. before returning home to Missouri.
In 1969, Bond became an Assistant Attorney General under former Senator John Danforth. Before being elected State Auditor in 1970, Bond was chief counsel of Missouri's Consumer Protection Division.
At age 33, Kit Bond became the 47th Governor of the State of Missouri on January 8, 1973 – the youngest Governor the state has ever had. Bond was re-elected to a second term as Governor in 1980. Among his greatest accomplishments as Governor was to take the Parents as Teachers program statewide.
After his second successful term as Governor, Bond continued his service to Missouri from his newly won seat in the United States Senate. In that 1986 election year, Bond was the only Republican to capture a seat previously held by a Democrat.
Based upon his solid ability to protect and advance Missouri's interests in the United States Senate, Bond was returned by Missouri voters to the U.S. Senate in 1992, 1998, and again in 2004.
While serving in the U.S. Senate, Bond has built a reputation as a strong supporter of responsible budgeting and accountability in education and government programs.
A strong supporter of law enforcement and a strong U.S. military, Bond also serves as the Vice Chairman on the Senate Select Intelligence Committee. And he is the ranking member of the Appropriations Subcommittee that funds the nation's housing and transportation needs.
Bond is married to Linda Bond. His son, Sam Bond, is a 1st Lieutenant in the U.S. Marine Corps.
  