
    STATEMENT OF ADMINISTRATION POLICY
(House Floor)
The Administration opposes H.R. 2939, the Foreign Operations, Export Financing, and Related Programs Appropriations Act for FY 1990, as it passed the Senate on November 15, 1989.
The Administration strongly opposes the Senate action to earmark $15 million for the UN Fund for Population Activities (UNFPA). Even though the United States contribution to the UNFPA would be barred from being spent in China, the Administration continues to oppose the provision, because the United States .would still be supporting population control practices and methods that are inconsistent with American values. The President stated in his letter of October 6, 1989, that he will veto the bill if it includes the UNFPA provision. The Administration supports language approved by the House on November 14, 1989.
The leveraging provision in section 582 remains overly broad, vague, and potentially would infringe on the President's constitutional authorities regarding the conduct of foreign policy. As stated previously, the President's senior advisors will recommend to the President that he disapprove the bill if it contains this provision in its current form.
The Administration objects to the Senate provision that prohibits the use of funds available to the Bureau of the Census to count illegal aliens in the Untied States. The Secretary of Commerce will recommend that the President veto the bill if this provision is included. We believe that all persons, irrespective of their citizenship, should be counted in the 1990 census, as required by the 14th Amendment to the Constitution. Excluding illegal aliens in the 1990 Decennial Census would result in an incomplete, ineffective count and potentially increase the cost of the Census by an estimated $800 million.
The Conference Report contains many provisions that the Administration strongly supports. Among the provisions the Administration welcomes are support of the Philippines Multilateral Assistance Initiative, the Stabilization and Enterprise Funds for Poland, and the funds to enhance the President's ability to carry forward the war on drugs. We urge Congress to eliminate the unacceptable UNFPA, leveraging and Census provisions so that the President can be presented with a bill that he can sign.
  