
    The Rudy Giuliani Presidential Committee today announced the endorsement of Patrick L. Anderson, a prominent Michigan economist and business leader.
Anderson, who is founder and CEO of Anderson Economic Group, is the former Chief of Staff for the Michigan Department of State. He served as the Deputy Budget Director under former Michigan Gov. John Engler.
"Rudy is the most qualified candidate to lead both our economy and our country," said Anderson. "He has a terrific record cutting taxes and turning around New York City's economy. Rudy's leadership on fiscal issues is needed in Michigan, which continues to suffer from the worst economy in the nation. I am proud to support Mayor Giuliani because he will be a great President."
"Patrick's endorsement sends a strong signal to Michigan voters that Rudy Giuliani is the only candidate with the experience as a real fiscal conservative. Rudy has the vision needed to grow our economy, cut wasteful government spending and lower taxes," said Giuliani's Policy Director Bill Simon.
About Patrick L. Anderson:
Anderson is the founder and CEO of Anderson Economic Group LLC, a consulting firm specializing in economics and public policy, with offices in Michigan, Illinois and Texas. He is the author of the book Business Economics & Finance and the executive editor of the State Economic Handbook. In 2004, he was honored by the National Association of Business Economists for the best paper contributed to Business Economics, entitled "Pocketbook Issues and Presidential Elections."
Anderson is the author of the 2006 law that repealed Michigan's four-decade-old Single Business Tax and of the 1992 Term Limit Amendment to the Michigan Constitution. Prior to founding Anderson Economic Group, Anderson was the Deputy Budget Director for the State of Michigan under Gov. John Engler and Chief of Staff for the Michigan Department of State. He founded the Michigan Remembers 9-11 Fund five years after surviving the terrorist attack on the World Trade Center.
  