
    My Administration is dedicated to securing human rights in Cuba and Venezuela, and strengthening our cultural and philosophical ties with all our Latin American partners.President Donald J. Trump
PARTNERING TO PROMOTE REGIONAL PROSPERITY: President Donald J. Trump is using the G20 Summit to work with partners to promote economic prosperity for the Americas.

The Administration is working through the "Americas Crece" initiative to expand exports, enhance energy and infrastructure security, and increase investment throughout the region.
President Trump continues to work to secure free and fair trade with America's allies and improve access to regional markets in Latin America.

Recently, it was announced that the Argentine market has been reopened to American beef. This followed a deal announced last year to open Argentina to American pork.


This week on the sidelines of the G20, the United States signed a framework to strengthen infrastructure and energy cooperation with Argentina for years to come.
The Overseas Private Investment Corporation also signed letters of interest for six projects in Argentina that are expected to attract more than $3 billion in investment.

These projects are in key areas, including energy production, transportation infrastructure, and pipeline construction.


Expanding commercial relations with our neighbors is a key part of the Administration's effort to push back against unfair trade and investment practices and to protect the economic security of the region.

Increased United States investment in Argentina and the region will improve our partners' resiliency against predatory lending.



DEFENDING DEMOCRATIC VALUES: President Trump is standing up to authoritarian regimes across the region.

President Trump is challenging autocratic regimes in the region that refuse to respect their people's call for democracy.
In Venezuela, the Trump Administration has imposed sanctions against the corrupt Maduro regime and its enablers.
The Trump Administration has imposed sanctions on Cuban military and intelligence services for their continued actions to undermine democracy.
This week, the President signed an Executive Order imposing sanctions on Nicaraguan officials for their dismantling of democratic institutions and human rights abuses.

This Order will enable the Administration to target members and associates of the regime for its indiscriminate human rights abuses and rampant corruption.



ENHANCING REGIONAL SECURITY: The Trump Administration is working with allies to enhance regional security. 

President Trump is working closely with allies in the region to combat transnational criminal networks and terrorist organizations.

The Trump Administration has partnered with Argentina to push for greater law enforcement cooperation to help combat organized crime and terrorism.


Together, the United States and its partners are working to decrease the illicit flows of drugs, cash, and weapons and to combat human smuggling.

  