
    COLUMBIA -- The South Carolina Clinton campaign today announced more than 700 students have signed up on 15 campuses across the state for the Students for Hillary campaign. Today's announcement follows just days after the national launch of Students for Hillary, an effort to organize and mobilize supporters on college campuses.
"We're organizing on campuses across the state because young people are ready for change and Hillary is the person with the experience to make that change real. We're going to continue organizing young people not only to reach out to other young people, but also to engage them in all sorts of aspects of the campaign," Christina Henderson, Furman Student Government President and an active Hillary supporter, said.
The South Carolina campaign has hosted organizing events on campuses across the state, including: Allen University, Benedict College, Claflin University, Francis Marion, Trident Tech, University of South Carolina at Columbia, USC-Akin, USC-Upstate, Winthrop University, College of Charleston, Charleston Law, Columbia College, Coastal Carolina, Furman, South Carolina State University. The program includes events on more campuses in the future and continuing efforts at those that already have a Students for Hillary presence. Nationally, supporters have already started 120 Students for Hillary chapters in 37 states. The campaign also unveiled a new Web site, hillblazers.com, which will serve as the principal organizing tool for students and other young voters.
Previously, Hillary laid out an agenda to help college students and young voters realize their full potential by improving access to higher education, creating new jobs, tackling global challenges like the environment and the spread of HIV/AIDS.
BACKGROUND: HILLARY AND YOUNG VOTERS
Hillary Clinton has 50,000 supporters on Facebook and more Friendster supporters than any other candidate, including hundreds of thousands of young supporters at hillaryclinton.com.
Last week, Gallup reported that Hillary Clinton's support among 18-34 year-olds in the multi-candidate Democratic primary had climbed 11 points to 45 percent - more than any other candidate. The Harris Interactive poll also showed Hillary ahead among every age group, including 18-30 year-olds. The Cook Political / RT Strategies poll had Clinton ahead by 11 points in September among 18-34 year-olds, after trailing by 16 points in April. And the LA Times/Bloomberg poll has Clinton leading the Democrats among 18-29 year-olds with 46 percent compared with 33 percent for her closest rival. In a nationwide poll of 18 to 30 year olds released last week - conducted by Rock the Vote, WWEs Smackdown Your Vote!, and Sacred Heart University - Hillary has support from 54 percent of those polled, leading her nearest opponent in the Democratic primary by 30 points.
Furthermore, in the general election, 18-34 year-olds choose Hillary Clinton over Rudy Giuliani by a margin of 45 percent to 33 percent in the October Cook/RT Strategies poll, up from a 7 point deficit in April.
Young women in particular are driving Hillary Clinton's strong support among young people - 94 percent of women aged 18-34 say they would turn out to vote for the first woman president because it would be important to them. And in the June CBS News / MTV / New York Times poll of 17-29 year-olds, 46 percent of young women said they were enthusiastic about Hillary Clinton, compared with 35 percent for her closest competitor (excluding "none" and "don't know" responses).
  