
    
  TV Ad: Obama Will Reverse Widening Gap between Workers and CEOs

Marion, IA -- At a news conference today in Marion, Senator Barack Obama thanked members of United Auto Workers Region 4 for their decision last Thursday to support his presidential campaign and pledged that as President he would fight for workers, even when it isn't politically convenient. Obama's Iowa campaign also announced a new television ad to begin airing Monday that offers his plan to reverse the widening gap between workers and executives.
"As President, I'll look out for Main Street, not just Wall Street," said Senator Obama. "We'll close the corporate loopholes that lobbyists put in our tax code. We'll take tax breaks away from companies that ship our jobs overseas, and put them in the pockets of working Americans who deserve it. We'll also make sure every American has a secure retirement by eliminating taxes for millions of seniors. And we'll take on the insurance companies like I did in Illinois and pass universal health care by the end of my first term."
Obama said that as President he would only sign trade agreements that have real protections for American workers. He called Senator Clinton's latest effort to distance herself from NAFTA a "tactic" that falls short of the strong consistent leadership that America's workers need from their next president.
"As some of you probably heard, at the debate the other night, Senator Clinton called NAFTA a mistake. And I was pleased to hear her say that because as more than 10,000 jobless Iowans know, that's exactly what NAFTA is. But the fact is, Senator Clinton was a cheerleader for NAFTA for more than a decade," said Senator Obama. "I realize that changing your position to suit the politics of the moment might be a smart campaign tactic, but it's not the kind of strong, principled leadership America needs right now."
In a new 30-second advertisement entitled "Need," set to begin airing Monday, Senator Obama describes American workers as the "bedrock" of our economy and proposes a plan to address the widening gap between the middle class and the wealthy.
You can watch the ad at http://iowa.barackobama.com/IANeed.
For more than two decades, as a community organizer, a civil rights attorney, a State Senator, and a U.S. Senator, Obama has been fighting to improve the lives of working Americans. In September, he unveiled his Middle Class Tax Fairness plan, which would restore balance to our tax code by closing corporate loopholes and provide tax relief for the middle class. Obama's plan will provide a tax cut for 1.7 million Iowans and eliminate the income tax for 100,000 Iowa seniors. 110,000 Iowa homeowners will get a tax break, and 300,000 seniors will no longer have to file income taxes.
SCRIPT - "Need"
Obama (talking to a small crowd): This administration has further divided Wall Street from Main Street. You've got CEOs who are making more in 10 minutes than ordinary workers are making in a year.
Obama (direct to camera): The bedrock, the foundation of our economy is our workers. And the middle class have been treading water or worse.
My plan says "Let's restore some balance to our tax code. Close these corporate loopholes the lobbyists put in. And let's make sure that tax breaks are given to people who really need it."
The Obama Plan:
• Close corporate tax loopholes
• $1,000 per family tax cut
• No income taxes on seniors making under $50,000
Last Thursday, November 15, delegates of United Auto Workers Region 4 voted to recommend an endorsement of Senator Barack Obama's presidential campaign. Region 4 represents 64,000 active and 122,000 retirees in Iowa, Illinois, Minnesota and Wisconsin, including 30,000 members and retirees in Iowa. The vote is not a formal endorsement from the UAW international union, but it's a highly sought-after sign of grassroots support from UAW members across the Midwest.
  